



Concerning thy question about the meaning of the philosopher's saying, "From the One proceedeth only One": The statement is incorrect when the Cause is meant to be the Absolute Essence... However, when the intention behind the statement is to refer to the Primal Utterance, which is created by God by Itself, for Itself, then verily it is the truth... As the Imam said... "O Yunus! Knowest thou what the Primal Will is?" He replied, "Nay." Then the Imam stated: "It is the Primal Utterance" (Dhikr).... There is no doubt that the Eternal Essence hath ever been immeasurably exalted above any association with His creatures; how much less could it become the source out of which things proceed. Though the statement is discussed in philosophy, the truth is that it must refer to the grades of the creative Action itself. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.095-096; GOH.197-198)

Immeasurably exalted is God above the claim of the philosophers that the cause of the originated beings is the Pre-existence of the Essence, seeking thereby to connect God with the contingent realm, and desiring to demonstrate the presence of the eternal intelligible forms (a'yani'th-thabitah), by virtue of the subtlety of the Indivisible, within His Essence... The statement of the philosophers that the cause of the created beings is the Essence is erroneous because of the lack of association [between cause and effect], the utter impossibility of change, and the precondition of the resemblance of the cause and the effect. The truth is that the Cause of beings is God's Handiwork, created by God Himself for Himself, and ordained to be the Cause of all His creation. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.190-191)

...the condition of causation is the mode of association, resemblance, and utterance in relation to the effect. This, however, is both impossible and forbidden in the realm of Utter Essence... (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.191)

The advocates of the doctrine of the unity of existence are joining partners with God by virtue of the testimony of the idea of existence itself. For the "unity" affirmed by them is derivative of the existence of duality; otherwise why would they deny the duality and affirm the unity? Likewise, those who advocate that the cause of the existence of the contingent beings is the Essence of God, and thus believe in some form of relation between the two, are disbelievers. For causation is dependent on the association with the effect, and relation is dependent on the existence of duality, whereas both conditions are utterly false. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.191-192)

Verily God hath intended by these exalted words to sanctify His Essence utterly from any attribute of causation, refuting the views of those who have considered the Essence to be the Cause of all causes. For, verily, that Cause is His Handiwork, and that Handiwork is not preceded by any cause, to such an extent that the tongue of His favoured ones repeatedly addressed this absence of causation by the Essence. Had it been the Essence that was also the Cause, this would have required association and resemblance. Yet exalted and glorified then be God! He hath fashioned the Will from nothingness, through Itself, and ordained It to be the Cause of all that is other than It, with no descent of anything from His Essence unto the Will. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.192)
