



The 'E' (nun) in the stage of utterance [exposition] is the same as the 'B' (kaf). It is the totality of the possible (imkan), and the possible itself in the world of contingency is fully contained in the word 'Be!' (kun). The Kaf is the stage of the Will (mashiyyat) and the Nun is the stage of Purpose (iradih). Mashiyyat is the Father of things and Iradih the Mother. As He [Muhammad] hath stated: ' 'Ali and I are the parents of this people.' Through the Kaf God created the matter (madda) of all things...and through the Nun God created the form (Sura) of all things. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir-i Bismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim, cited by M. Afnan in Ahang-i Badi', vol. 24 (126 B.E.), no. 5-6, p. 126. INBA 60:48-49, also INBA 64:74; quoted here)

For this pairing of male and female exists in all the animals and plants. They even argue that the Qur'an itself affirms this pairing of all things: "Glory be to Him Who hath created all the pairs, of such things as earth produceth, and out of men themselves, and of things beyond their ken"; that is, man, animals, and plants are all found in pairs. "And of everything have We created two kinds"; that is, We have created all things in pairs. SAQ#17.4 (was SAQ.087) [see also Qur'an 36:36, 13:3, 20:53, 31:10, 35:11, 42:11, 43:12, 49:13, 51:49, 53:45, 55]

When we look upon creation, we find the male and female principle apparent in all phenomena of existence.  In the vegetable kingdom we find the male and female fig tree, the male and female palm, the mulberry tree and so on. PUP.374

God has created all creatures in couples. Man, beast, or vegetable, all the things of these three kingdoms are of two sexes, and there is absolute equality between them. PT#50:2 p161

Know thou that the distinction between male and female is an exigency of the physical world and hath no connection with the spirit; for the spirit and the world of the spirit are sanctified above such exigencies, and wholly beyond the reach of such changes as befall the physical body in the contingent world. (Abdu'l-Baha, compilation on "Women", #10)

We asked, first: 'Were there affinities? That is, were the souls created in pairs, and did they belong to each other forever, even if they did not meet on earth?' He answered: 'Yes', - that everything was created in pairs, but that this earth was the flaming sword, and sometimes, even if affinities met, they could not be happy for various reasons connected with the imperfect conditions here; but in sprit they were related forever. (From notes of 'Abdu'l-Baha taken at Acca. But cf. letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 4 Dec. 1954: "There is no teaching in the Baha'i Faith that 'soul mates' exist." LG#689)

These verses of the Torah have therefore numerous meanings. We will explain one of them and will say that by "Adam" is meant the spirit [ruh] of Adam and by "Eve" is meant His self [nafs]. For in certain passages of the Sacred Scriptures where women are mentioned, the intended meaning is the human self. SAQ#30.5 (was SAQ.123) cf. Henry Corbin: "But the Adam to whom we have just alluded is first of all the spiritual Adam, the Anthropos in the true sense, the first degree of determinate being, the Nous, the First Intelligence. The second degree is the universal Soul (Nafs kulliya), which is the celestial Eve." (Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 168)

'Adam' signifieth that reality which is pervasive, effulgent and active, that is the manifestation of God's Names and Attributes, and the evidences of His mercy. Whereas 'Eve' is that reality which is the seeker and the recipient of the force, the grace, the message and the influence - that reality which receiveth the impact of all God's Names and Attributes. (Abdu'l-Baha, authorized translation, MA2.102, in Response, p.72)
