



We have appointed two signs for the coming of age of the human race: the first, which is the most firm foundation, We have set down in other of Our Tablets, while the second hath been revealed in this wondrous Book. KA#189 The first sign of the coming of age of humanity referred to in the Writings of Baha'u'llah is the emergence of a science which is described as that 'divine philosophy' which will include the discovery of a radical approach to the transmutation of elements. This is an indication of the splendours of the future stupendous expansion of knowledge. (note to KA#189)

For instance, consider the substance of copper. Were it to be protected in its own mine from becoming solidified, it would, within the space of seventy years, attain to the state of gold. There are some, however, who maintain that copper itself is gold, which by becoming solidified is in a diseased condition, and hath not therefore reached its own state. KI#165 p156

Among the sciences which this pretender hath professed is that of alchemy. We cherish the hope that either a king or a man of preeminent power may call upon him to translate this science from the realm of fancy to the domain of fact and from the plane of mere pretension to that of actual achievement. KI#208 p189

Consider the doubts which they who have joined partners with God have instilled into the hearts of the people of this land. 'Is it ever possible,' they ask, 'for copper to be transmuted into gold?' Say, Yes, by my Lord, it is possible. Its secret, however, lieth hidden in Our Knowledge. We will reveal it unto whom We will. Whoso doubteth Our power, let him ask the Lord his God, that He may disclose unto him the secret, and assure him of its truth. That copper can be turned into gold is in itself sufficient proof that gold can, in like manner, be transmuted into copper, if they be of them that can apprehend this truth. Every mineral can be made to acquire the density, form, and substance of each and every other mineral. The knowledge thereof is with Us in the Hidden Book. GWB#097 p197

Is it within human power, O Hakim, to effect in the constituent elements of any of the minute and indivisible particles of matter so complete a transformation as to transmute it into purest gold? Perplexing and difficult as this may appear, the still greater task of converting satanic strength into heavenly power is one that We have been empowered to accomplish. The Force capable of such a transformation transcendeth the potency of the Elixir itself. The Word of God, alone, can claim the distinction of being endowed with the capacity required for so great and far-reaching a change. GWB#099 p200, Ruhi6.1.20

He [Socrates] it is who perceived a unique, a tempered, and a pervasive nature in things, bearing the closest likeness to the human spirit, and he discovered this nature to be distinct from the substance of things in their refined form. He hath a special pronouncement on this weighty theme. Wert thou to ask from the worldly wise of this generation about this exposition, thou wouldst witness their incapacity to grasp it. TB.146-147     literal translation: "He it is who discovered the special moderate nature characterized by predominance [ascendancy - ghalibat], bearing the closest likeness to the human spirit [ruh]. He brought it forth [extracted it - akhrajaha] from the inner body [aj-jasadu'l-jawwani]..."

Considering that a century ago, nobody knew the nature of matter, and couldn't split any kind of atom, it should not surprise the scientist that 'Abdu'l-Baha states that copper can be transmuted into gold. There may come a time, for all we know, when the mass of many atoms can be changed by scientists....The same holds true of the statement of Baha'u'llah in the Iqan, regarding transmutation of copper into gold after seventy years, under certain conditions. We as Baha'is must assume that, as He had access to all knowledge, He was referring to a definite physical condition which theoretically might exist. LG#1580 (14 Mar. 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

If there should not be decomposition, composition would not be.... For example, if you wish the dust and stone and wood to be mixed perfectly with each other, it is impossible unless each be decomposed into its salts; when we have dissolved them then we can compose them. (Pilgrim notes of Arthur Agnew, Table Talks at Acca, by Abdul-Baha Abbas, 1907, p. 10)

One thing can never of itself change into another; but by changing the surrounding conditions and combining it with something else it can be changed.... The way has not yet been discovered in Europe - but when the method is discovered it will be possible to change copper into gold, or to change the nature of metals - the time for this discovery is not yet. Some substances like air or water can be decomposed and their component parts separated so that they will be different. When the gasses forming water are combined they will put out fire. The elements of metals are not true single elements - a time will come when all the elements will be decomposed. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, pp. 39-40)

We are possessed of such power which, if brought to light, will transmute the most deadly of poisons into a panacea of unfailing efficacy. WOB.107 (Baha'u'llah)

We noticed that he had enumerated some twenty or more sciences, the knowledge of which he considered to be essential for the comprehension of the mystery of the "Mi'raj". We gathered from his statements that unless a man be deeply versed in them all, he can never attain to a proper understanding of this transcendent and exalted theme. Among the specified sciences were the science of metaphysical abstractions, of alchemy, and natural magic. Such vain and discarded learnings, this man hath regarded as the prerequisites of the understanding of the sacred and abiding mysteries of divine Knowledge. Gracious God! Such is the measure of his understanding. KI#203 p186

O ye My Branches! A mighty force, a consummate power lieth concealed in the world of being. Fix your gaze upon it and upon its unifying influence, and not upon the differences which appear from it. TB.221, Ruhi8.1.6

That which is below is like that which is above, and that which is above is like that which is below, to do the miracles of one only thing. And as all things have been arose from one by the mediation of one: so all things have their birth from this one thing by adaptation. (The Emerald Tablet of Hermes, Isaac Newton's translation)

As for the signs of the coming of age of the human race mentioned in the Kitab-i-Aqdas: one sign is the advent of universal peace; the other is the unfoldment and appearance of the 'sister of prophecy' of the divine wisdom, of which the hidden craft forms a part. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Asraru'l-Athar 1:208)

With respect to the blending and coming together of things, two methods can be discerned: one is through the absolute and unmitigated power which is conditioned upon His permission and is strictly confined to His Godhead. The other is through the conjunction of mutually attractive and non-repellent substances, and this occureth after knowledge is gained of the perfect nature, and is known to the alchemists as the 'egg', and that is the worked and crafted stone. It containeth the four humours and after separation, perfect blending is again possible. (Provisional translation, BH07258)




We have appointed two signs for the coming of age of the human race: the first, which is the most firm foundation, We have set down in other of Our Tablets, while the second hath been revealed in this wondrous Book. KA#189 The first sign of the coming of age of humanity referred to in the Writings of Baha'u'llah is the emergence of a science which is described as that 'divine philosophy' which will include the discovery of a radical approach to the transmutation of elements. This is an indication of the splendours of the future stupendous expansion of knowledge. (note to KA#189)

Considering that a century ago, nobody knew the nature of matter, and couldn't split any kind of atom, it should not surprise the scientist that 'Abdu'l-Baha states that copper can be transmuted into gold. There may come a time, for all we know, when the mass of many atoms can be changed by scientists....The same holds true of the statement of Baha'u'llah in the Iqan, regarding transmutation of copper into gold after seventy years, under certain conditions. We as Baha'is must assume that, as He had access to all knowledge, He was referring to a definite physical condition which theoretically might exist. LG#1580 (14 Mar. 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As for the signs of the coming of age of the human race mentioned in the Kitab-i-Aqdas: one sign is the advent of universal peace; the other is the unfoldment and appearance of the 'sister of prophecy' of the divine wisdom, of which the hidden craft forms a part. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Asraru'l-Athar 1:208)
