



Is nature itself in motion? (Enn.III.8.2)     Is motion itself a substance? (Enn.II.6.1)     Now there are many species of being and there is a genus of being; but movement is not to be classed under being nor yet over being, but with being (Enn.VI.2.7)




Know that nothing that exists remains in a state of repose--that is, all things are in motion. They are either growing or declining, either coming from non-existence into existence or passing from existence into non-existence. So this flower, this hyacinth, was for a time coming from non-existence into existence and is now passing from existence into non-existence. This is called essential or natural motion, and it can in no wise be dissociated from created things, for it is one of their essential requirements, just as it is an essential requirement of fire to burn. SAQ#63.1 (was SAQ.233)

Creation is the expression of motion.  Motion is life... All created forms are progressive in their planes, or kingdoms of existence, under the stimulus of the power or spirit of life.  The universal energy is dynamic.  Nothing is stationary in the material world of outer phenomena or in the inner world of intellect and consciousness. PUP.140

Absolute repose does not exist in nature.... movement is essential to all existence.... We have seen that movement is essential to existence; nothing that has life is without motion. PT#29:2-4 p088, AvK1.124

It is the inherent nature of things on this earth to change, thus we see around us the change of the seasons. Every spring is followed by a summer and every autumn brings a winter - every day a night and every evening a morning. There is a sequence in all things. AL.027

The test of existence is motion. An object which has in itself the power of motion lives. If motion is withheld growth ceases. That is mortality. ADP.124

All material things are ordered like a planetary system. In the center is the divine dynamo and around Him circle in a raving dance the matter particles, the so-called atoms. The faster the movement, the firmer and denser appears the matter to us. (Notes of a talk by Abdu'l-Baha recorded by Dr. Fallscheer in Feb. 1910)

The entire creation consists of matter and power (movement).... All the changes of the atoms are based on combination and separation, on quick and undetectable movement - on this is dependent the form, the appearance of the body. Time represents the number of the movements. Thus space, time, movement, are: Atoms without extension, moments without duration. (Fallscheer notes, p. 51, relating the teachings of Al-Ash'ari)

All creation ... is compelled to obey the law of motion; it must either ascend or descend. PT#29:4 p088

Divine and all-encompassing Wisdom hath ordained that motion be an inseparable concomitant of existence, whether inherently or accidentally, spiritually or materially. This movement must be governed by some check or reign, some regulator or director, otherwise order will be disrupted and the spheres and bodies will fall from the heavens. For this reason God brought into being a universal attractive force between these bodies to hold sway over them and govern them, a force deriving from the firm ties, the mighty correspondence and affinity that exist between the realities of these limitless worlds. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:014)

The elemental atoms which constitute all phenomenal existence and being in this illimitable universe are in perpetual motion, undergoing continuous degrees of progression. ...the constituent elemental atoms of phenomena undergo progressive transferrence and motion throughout the material kingdoms. PUP.284-285

All created things are in a state of motion; there is no stillness--for motion is among the essential requirements of existence, and stillness is among the hallmarks of non-existence. That is to say, there is not a single existing thing which is not in motion. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.125; MA2.010)

As to what thou hast written concerning the motion of the sun and the earth: all things are in motion and nothing is at rest; for motion is one of the necessary attributes of existence and stillness is a property of nonexistence. There is not a single thing that is not in motion. AvK1.125-126; MA2.009-010 (provisional translation)

...to stop advancing is the means of going back. The bird when he flies soars ever higher and higher, for as soon as he stops flying he will come down. Every day, in the morning when arising you should compare today with yesterday and see in what condition you are. SW v08#06 p068




And since such a Personage is superior to all others in spiritual perfections and heavenly attainments, and is indeed the focal centre of divine blessings and the pivot of the circle of light, He will encompass all others.... When ye consider this matter with care, it will become apparent that this is according to a universal law, which one can find at work in all things: the whole attracteth the part, and in the circle, the centre is the pivot of the compass. SWAB#031 p062-063

...any movement animated by love moveth from the periphery to the centre, from space to the Day-Star of the universe. Perchance thou deemest this to be difficult, but I tell thee that such cannot be the case, for when the motivating and guiding power is the divine force of magnetism it is possible, by its aid, to traverse time and space easily and swiftly. SWAB#166 p197-198

The lights of earth are all acceptable, but the center of effulgence is the sun, and we must direct our gaze to the sun. God is the Supreme Center. The more we turn toward this Center of Light, the greater will be our capacity. PUP.015

Likewise, in the spiritual realm of intelligence and idealism there must be a center of illumination, and that center is the everlasting, ever-shining Sun, the Word of God. Its lights are the lights of reality which have shone upon humanity, illumining the realm of thought and morals, conferring the bounties of the divine world upon man.... This Sun of Reality, this Center of effulgences, is the Prophet or Manifestation of God. PUP.094, Ruhi5.3.13

Each power is localized.  Reason has it seat in the brain, sight in the eye, hearing in the ears, speech in the tongue.  The force of gravity is localized in the center of the earth.  Everything on the surface of the earth is attracted toward the center. ADP.097

No matter how high the soaring ones fly in the utmost degrees of knowledge and understanding, ... they are but reading letters from the book of their own selves, and reaching only to the brilliant unseen signs that are enshrined in the reality of their own beings, and circling round the centre of their own entities. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:097)

Concerning the Divine Spirit or Soul (Lahutiyih).... it is the Center of the Circle of Existence which is manifested through the word: 'There is none other God but Him', and the zenith of the firmament of eternity around which circles the Star of Oneness, so that all the hidden realities circle around this single point of Divine Unity... ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:096-097)

...and thou shalt know that thou art the center of the circle of the love of God, the axis around which souls revolve in their way and supplication to God. TAB.260

Praise be to God Who hath caused Oceans of Light to surge in the Divine Fiery Water; ... made the Hidden Mount revolve about the Firmament of Manifestation, the Concealed Self, the Focal Centre of Eternality; caused the Lordly Point to circle round the Most Splendid, All-Enduring Ornament... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3:1 p.4-67, MA4.265)

...its [the soul's] natural movement is, as it were, in a circle around something, something not outside but a centre, and the centre is that from which the circle derives, then it will move around this from which it is and will depend on this... Plotinus, Enn.VI.9.8

This sincere intent is like unto a magnet attracting the divine confirmations. In the world of being all atoms in existence are centres of attraction for certain things.... Likewise when sincere intent hath been attained and the power of detachment and an eloquent tongue bestowed, these attract mighty confirmations. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, in Four on an Island, p. 98)




There are different degrees of motion.... 1) physical (motion of transit), 2) inherent growth (child to adult), 3) condition (sickness to health), 4) spirit (unfoldment of capacities), 5) intellect (ignorance to wisdom), 6) the eternal essence (existence and nonexistence). ADP.124-125 (summary)

[See Dionysius in Rolt p.98 for a threefold typology of spiritual motion.]

And the soul is so disposed then as even to despise intelligence, which at other times it welcomed, because intelligence is a kind of movement, and the soul does not want to move. Plotinus, Enn.VI.7.34
