



But when the hour struck, the divine promise was not fulfilled.... what could have caused the nonfulfilment of the divine promise which led the seekers to reject that which they had accepted? Meditate profoundly ... that you may acknowledge the truth that from time immemorial even unto eternity the Almighty hath tried, and will continue to try, His servants, so that light may be distinguished from darkness, truth from falsehood, right from wrong, guidance from error, happiness from misery, and roses from thorns. KI#007-008 p007-008

Since the Ancient of Days created mankind for the purpose of apprehending the power shining within themselves, and made reward and punishment the instrument for fulfilling this purpose, He created the Will from nothing through the causality of the Will itself, without qualification or explanation. After that He created all things through its causality, and the creation of anything upon which the letter of the Will hath fallen is only possible through seven stages of contingency. Without these stages nothing is possible in the contingent world. These seven stages are Will (mashiyyat), Purpose (iradih), predestination (qadar), fate (qada'), permission (idhn), fixed time (ajal), and the book (kitab).[1] The first stage of anything for which the "thingness" of existence is not a condition is the Will. The moment thingness is attached to it, it becometh Purpose, and this moment is accompanied by predestination. The manifestation of these three stages is fate. In this regard,[2] it is incumbent upon all creatures to acknowledge the spontaneity (bada' ) of God,[3] lauded and exalted be He, for His will cannot be altered after the stage of fate; it is fixed.[4] The decrees of permission, fixed time, and the book are subsequent to execution (imda'). Indeed, the reality of creation and the secret of the origination of existence are contained in these seven stages in both the hidden and manifest worlds. (The Bab, provisional translation, from the Sahifiy-i-Usul va Furu'; AvK1.099, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages; alternative translation in MNP.047) [1] This scheme of seven stages comes from a tradition ascribed to the sixth Shi'ih Imam, Ja'far as-Sadiq, a number of variants of which can be found in the Usul al-Kafi (Kulayni, vol. 1, pp. 204-208). [2] i.e., in regard to the first three stages prior to their manifestation. [3] Bada', translated here as "spontaneity" with reference to God's action, is the doctrine that God is free to change His mind and do whatever He pleases, even to change an earlier divine ruling. For more on the concepts of bada', qadar, and qada', see Fazlur Rahman, The Philosophy of Mulla Sadra, pp. 180-182; also entries in Encyclopedia of Islam. [4] Once something is manifested in the temporal world, it cannot be altered. Events are fixed and can only be succeeded by new events. (notes by K. Brown)

The major argument of the reincarnationists was this, that according to the justice of God, each must receive his due: whenever a man is afflicted with some calamity, for example, this is because of some wrong he hath committed.... These individuals, however, have overlooked the following point. If creation went forward according to only one rule, how could the all-encompassing Power make Itself felt? How could the Almighty be the One Who 'doeth as He pleaseth and ordaineth as He willeth'? SWAB#156 p183

That which I set forth in explanation of the letter Ha was to extol the Tree of Baha, for the supporters of fate (qada') recognize the decree of spontaneity (bada') in the Crimson Pillar. It, in truth, is the secret of creation, for the element of fire in the realm of origination (ibda') can only exist through the element of earth. This is because with the exception of God, nothing can subsist through itself. All things are composite. Once the decree of duality is established, the decree of connection (rab?) is also established, for a thing cannot be a thing except through its existence, which is the aspect of manifestation (tajalli) in it, through its essence, which is the aspect of receiving (qubul), and through connection, which is realized after the union [of the first two]. These three stages correspond to the stages of the trinity in the first name which God chose for Himself. For this reason Christians adopted the shape of the cross and incarnated the divinity in mortal form. Immensely exalted is God above that which moral minds are able to apprehend from the sweet melodies uttered by the Birds of Heaven upon the boughs of the Tree of Divinity!...The names of these three at the beginning of the creative act are Will, Purpose, and predestination (qadar), which the people of eloquence (ahlu'l-bayan)[1] express as calling-into-being (insha'), origination (ibda'), invention (ikhtira'), creation (ihdath), and being made (inji'al). It is not possible for anything to exist without the elements described, even were God's command offered to a willing soul, for the contingent world cannot come into existence save through two complementary principles. Once the remembrance of duality is established, the remembrance of states (shu'un) continueth without end, for these states have no end....     Reflect upon the stage of Purpose (iradih), which is the Eve of the Primal Adam and the Throne whereon the Will is seated in the station of the All-Merciful, and consider how God hath created it with four pillars. One pillar is the stage of fate (qada'), which is the element of fire and the manifestation of the efficient cause; its color is white due to its pure simplicity in relation to the conditions of multiplicity, dimension, and distinction.... Another pillar is the stage of permission (idhn), which is the element of air and the manifestation of the material cause; its color is yellow in relation to that which is determined... Another pillar is the stage of fixed time (ajal), which is the element of water and the manifestation of the formal cause, the eternal first Pen, and the third leaf of the divine Tree, whose essence is from the East and not the West. Its color is green, and through it the green of each thing is obtained... Another pillar is the stage of the Book (kitab), which is the element of earth and the manifestation of the final cause in the world of names and attributes. Its color is red, and through it the red in each thing is obtained, the scheme of each thing produced, and the measure of each thing determined. (The Bab, provisional translation, in INBA 14:268 ff; 67:38 ff; 86:137 ff., in in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)     Notes by KB:     [1] Probably a reference to those philosophers and theologians who were concerned with defining and refining the types and stages of God's creation of things, and who proposed different terms for each stage. See, for example, Mir Damad's al-Qabasat, chapter 1, on the types of creation (huduth).     [2] Rajab.     [3] Qur'an 30:40.     [4] I.e. saying the words: No God is there but God.

These things We mention only that the people may not be dismayed because of certain traditions and utterances, which have not yet been literally fulfilled, that they may rather attribute their perplexity to their own lack of understanding, and not to the non-fulfilment (bada') of the promises in the traditions... KI#286 p256

However, God's alteration is immeasurably exalted above any association with the alteration of His creatures. For the creatures' alteration is due to their powerlessness, whereas God's alteration is the outcome of supreme power. Therefore, in each Revelation of the Will, His alteration is manifest. Should He, in former Dispensations, destine faith and paradise for the believers, in a new Revelation He may choose to subject all to the decree of alteration and judge them to be non-believers, to reveal His absolute might... Having understood the alteration of the Eternal Essence as the alteration of the Will, and His confirmation as the confirmation of the Will, thou must gaze upon the evident alterations in each Revelation, which have ever been and will continue forever to be like unto an infinite and tempestuous ocean. Thus, all who are associated with this Revelation have witnessed such manifestations in the ocean of the Will, even as it was manifest in the Furqan by the name "abrogation" [bada']. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.208)

God is not worshipped through anything [as he is] through [belief in] bada' because bada' is recognition of his power to do what He willeth. If one worships God through all imaginable means -- should he acknowledge belief (i'tiraf) in bada' it is still a greater act of worship than everything else he has done. (Persian Bayan 4:3, quoted in Eschraghi, MNP.228)
