



The meaning of 'angels' is the confirmations of God and His celestial powers. Likewise angels are blessed beings who have severed all ties with this nether world, have been released from the chains of self and the desires of the flesh, and anchored their hearts to the heavenly realms of the Lord. These are of the Kingdom, heavenly; these are of God, spiritual; these are revealers of God's abounding grace; these are dawning-points of His spiritual bestowals. SWAB#039

By 'angel' is meant the power of the confirmations of God -- that the candle of God's confirming power shineth out from the lamp-niche of those souls -- meaning that every one of those beings will be granted the most vehement confirming support. SWAB#142

The path hath become smooth, the way straightened, the carpet of the Kingdom is spread, the Tabernacle hath been elevated upon the Hill of Might, the powers of heaven have been shaken, the corners of the earth have quaked, the sun has been darkened, the moon ceased to give light, the stars have fallen, the nations of the earth have lamented, and the Son of Man hath come upon the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, and He hath sent His angels with the sound of the great trumpet, and no one knows the meaning of these emblems save the wise and informed. TAB.145

And now concerning thy question regarding the verse which the All-Merciful, exalted be His glory, hath revealed unto Muhammad, the Apostle of God, in the Qur'an: "He employeth the angels as messengers, with pairs of wings, two, three and four...": Know thou that among the angels there have ever been differences in station and degree, inasmuch as the stations of some excel the others. Some among them are engaged in the training of the world of humanity, whilst others have been entrusted with keeping record of the conduct of men, their deeds and their words. Four angels, who are widely renowned, have been appointed each to serve a specific task, as all have heard and are aware. Consider likewise those angels who abide in one among the realms of the True One: Some among them are utterly effaced before the effulgences of their Lord, immensely exalted be His glory. His presence is their sustenance, and drawing nigh unto Him their every action. Beholding Him and witnessing His unveiling are their sole occupation and their true delight. From the beginning that hath no beginning unto the end that hath no end, they have never diverted their gaze from the one true God. Another group of angels is known as the company of the most exalted Beings, and none is aware of them save God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Yet others are known as the Spirit, and the verse "therein descend the angels and the Spirit" testifieth thereto. Spirit, likewise, is known to have various degrees. For instance, consider the Holy Spirit mentioned in the Scriptures, which some have referred to as Gabriel. Consider likewise the Spirit of Trustworthiness, the Spirit of Faith, of Certitude, of Command, of Grandeur and of Power, of Beauty, of Glory, and the like. As to His saying "He employeth the angels as messengers", the intended meaning is that angels are intermediaries between God and His chosen Ones. They convey unto the latter the missives of their Lord through divine revelation, through inspiration, and through visions, and they instruct them of that which God hath commanded them. Through the aid of angels God hath revealed His Cause, rendered it victorious, completed His creation, and perfected His signs. And as to His saying "with pairs of wings, two, three and four...", the meaning, as already mentioned, is that angels occupy diverse stations. By virtue of the diversity of their station and degree they are the possessors of numerous wings, through which they ascend and descend. Some of them have as many wings as there are divine names, even as the Seal of the Prophets, upon meeting Gabriel on the night of the Mi'raj, recounted: "His are six hundred wings!" (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Amr va Khalq, vol. 2, 159-160)
