



Creation is the expression of motion.  Motion is life... All created forms are progressive in their planes, or kingdoms of existence, under the stimulus of the power or spirit of life.  The universal energy is dynamic.  Nothing is stationary in the material world of outer phenomena or in the inner world of intellect and consciousness. PUP.140

the originating principle is, for all things, the goal. (Enn.III.8.7)     The natural motion of all things is returning to the One (Enn.III.8.10)

The point of the compass in describing a circle does not reverse its motion, for this would be contrary to the natural movement and the divine order and would disrupt the regularity of the circle. ...advancing and moving through the worlds in a direct line and according to the natural order is the cause of existence, and moving against the natural order and arrangement of things is the cause of extinction. SAQ#81.9-10 (was SAQ.286)

Everything moves forward or backward, nothing is without motion.... All material things progress to a certain point, then begin to decline. This is the law which governs the whole physical creation.... We have seen that movement is essential to existence; nothing that has life is without motion. All creation ... is compelled to obey the law of motion; it must either ascend or descend. But with the human soul, there is no decline. Its only movement is towards perfection; growth and progress alone constitute the motion of the soul.... In the world of spirit there is no retrogression.... In the realm of spirit there is no retreat possible, all movement is bound to be towards a perfect state. 'Progress' is the expression of spirit in the world of matter. PT#29:4-9 p088-090

...man must throughout all the degrees of life evolve and progress day unto day, for life is continuous. ADP.125

If we represent creation by a circle, at the top of it is God the creator. From His left descends the material creation, ... and at the bottom of the circle is man.... But though this station is the 'lowest of the low', it is also the dawning point of the new life and the spiritual ascent to God! (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 30)

The first or descending circle is the natural or material circle, the second or ascending circle is the spiritual. The first half is the night, the second half is the day. The human world is the point furthest away from God, but the rays of God shine directly on man. (Abdu'l-Baha, from a pilgrim note, explanation of the chart of creation)

...cooperation and reciprocity are essential properties which are inherent in the unified system of the world of existence, and without which the entire creation would be reduced to nothingness. In surveying the vast range of creation thou shalt perceive that the higher a kingdom of created things is on the arc of ascent, the more conspicuous are the signs and evidences of the truth that cooperation and reciprocity at the level of a higher order are greater than those that exist at the level of a lower order... (Abdu'l-Baha, from the compilation on Huququ'llah, extract #61, p.19)

There are three births: First, the material birth; second, to be born of water; third to be born of the Spirit. When man first enters the spiritual world he is born of the Water of Truth and the Knowledge of God... To be born of the Spirit means to renounce all earthly desires, to aspire to the qualities of God and to begin to ascend the second half of the circle. (Pilgrim notes of Lua Getsinger, explanation of the chart of creation)




...the inner reality of man is a demarcation line (khatt fasil) between the shadow and the light, a place where the two seas meet; it is the lowest point on the arc of descent, and therefore it is capable of gaining all the grades above. With education it can achieve all excellence; devoid of education it will stay on, at the lowest point of imperfection. SWAB#103 p130

The Theosophists believe that man will return time and again on the arc of ascent until he reaches the Supreme Centre, where matter becomes as a spotless mirror, the light of the spirit shines forth in the plenitude of its power, and essential perfection is attained. However, those who have thoroughly investigated the questions of divinity know of a certainty that the material worlds terminate at the end of the arc of descent [qaws-i-nuzul]; that the station of man lies at the end of the arc of descent and the beginning of the arc of ascent [qaws-i-su'ud], which is opposite the Supreme Centre; and that from the beginning to the end of the arc of ascent the degrees of progress are of a spiritual nature. The arc of descent is called that of 'bringing forth' [bida'] and the arc of ascent that of 'creating anew' [ikhtira']. The arc of descent ends in material realities and the arc of ascent in spiritual realities. The point of the compass in describing a circle does not reverse its motion, for this would be contrary to the natural movement and the divine order and would disrupt the regularity of the circle. SAQ#81.9 (was SAQ.285-286)

All creation ... is compelled to obey the law of motion; it must either ascend or descend. PT#29:4 p088

By them [His Names and Attributes] He hath made the holy realities that are informed by His grace and are the recipients of His outpourings to be the sole revealers of all that pertaineth unto Him, and hath caused them to move through the firmament of perfection in arcs of descent and ascent. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:013)

[the station of] man is the moment of the dawn; that is, he is at the beginning of the day of unity and guidance, and the end of the night of plurality and waywardness. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:041)

All created things, i.e. emanated things, move in a cycle, better expressed, in an elliptical curve. The Bab and Baha'u'llah taught: The creation, the emanated, is the descending curve of the Logos (the breath of life of God) and the development (evolution) is the ascending curve; this (curve) is, however, nothing else than the coming back or returning of all things to God, be it for destruction or for absolute perfection. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910)

the development of existence may be represented by two arcs forming a circle. The one descending, the other ascending. Beginning with the mineral, the vegetable and the animal, the human follows, being at the end of the descending arc, and therefore the very lowest point of life. If a man becomes stationary at that point he is the lowest of the low.... It is by progressing into the spiritual life that the ascending arc is reached and man can grow and develop. (Pilgrim notes of Mr. and Mrs. Hannen, Feb. 1909, Akka Lights, p. 8)

If we represent creation by a circle, at the top of it is God the creator. From His left descends the material creation, ... and at the bottom of the circle is man.... But though this station is the 'lowest of the low', it is also the dawning point of the new life and the spiritual ascent to God! (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 30)

The first or descending circle is the natural or material circle, the second or ascending circle is the spiritual. The first half is the night, the second half is the day. The human world is the point furthest away from God, but the rays of God shine directly on man. (Abdu'l-Baha, from a pilgrim note, explanation of the chart of creation)

...cooperation and reciprocity are essential properties which are inherent in the unified system of the world of existence, and without which the entire creation would be reduced to nothingness. In surveying the vast range of creation thou shalt perceive that the higher a kingdom of created things is on the arc of ascent, the more conspicuous are the signs and evidences of the truth that cooperation and reciprocity at the level of a higher order are greater than those that exist at the level of a lower order... (Abdu'l-Baha, from the compilation on Huququ'llah, extract #61, p.19)

...the outward is the expression of the inward: The earthly realm is the mirror of the heavenly Kingdom, and the material world is in accordance with the spiritual world.... ...since the recurrence of the same divine appearance is impossible for material beings, the repeated assumption of the same station, whether on the arc of descent or on the arc of ascent, is likewise impossible for spiritual beings, for the material world corresponds to the spiritual world. SAQ#81.6 (was SAQ.283-284)

Man is in the ultimate degree of materiality and the beginning of spirituality; that is, he is at the end of imperfection and the beginning of perfection. He is at the furthermost degree of darkness and the beginning of the light. That is why the station of man is said to be the end of night and the beginning of day, meaning that he encompasses all the degrees of imperfection and that he potentially possesses all the degrees of perfection. He has both an animal side and an angelic side. SAQ#64.2 (was SAQ.235)

There are three births: First, the material birth; second, to be born of water; third to be born of the Spirit. When man first enters the spiritual world he is born of the Water of Truth and the Knowledge of God... To be born of the Spirit means to renounce all earthly desires, to aspire to the qualities of God and to begin to ascend the second half of the circle. (Pilgrim notes of Lua Getsinger, explanation of the chart of creation)

In man, however, there existeth a twofold station: one shining and bright, the other shadowy and dim; one pertaining to the realm of the Divine, the other to the world of nature; one inclined towards the heavenly soul and the other towards the satanic self. For man standeth on the demarcation line between light and darkness. In the circle of existence, he is situated at the lowest point, that is, the end of the arc of descent and the beginning of the arc of ascent. For this reason, he is free to move in both directions: towards light or darkness, towards ignorance or guidance--depending on the one that prevaileth within him. (provisional translation; MKT3.107; 25 October 1919)




...cooperation and reciprocity are essential properties which are inherent in the unified system of the world of existence, and without which the entire creation would be reduced to nothingness. In surveying the vast range of creation thou shalt perceive that the higher a kingdom of created things is on the arc of ascent, the more conspicuous are the signs and evidences of the truth that cooperation and reciprocity at the level of a higher order are greater than those that exist at the level of a lower order... (Abdu'l-Baha, from the compilation on Huququ'llah, extract #61, p.19)




The Creator of all is One God. From this same God all creation sprang into existence, and He is the one goal, towards which everything in nature yearns. PT#15:1-2 p051

Such as communicate the generating influence and such as receive its impact are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His Word are but the creatures and the effects thereof.... Every thing must needs have an origin and every building a builder. Verily, the Word of God is the Cause which hath preceded the contingent world -- a world which is adorned with the splendours of the Ancient of Days, yet is being renewed and regenerated at all times. Immeasurably exalted is the God of Wisdom Who hath raised this sublime structure. TB.140-141

God did not create the world suddenly but God's breath of life becomes God's creative word of command, logos, which continuously creates the world. We have a continuing and not a single act of creation. (From a talk entitled Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 5)

It is God Who originates creation and repeats it... (Qur'an 10:34, also 27:64)

...in Ibn 'Arabi's world-view, the self-manifestation of the Absolute is a perpetual process whose major stages - (1) the 'most holy emanation', (2) the 'holy emanation', and then (3) the appearance of concrete individual things - go on being actualized one after another like successive, recurrent waves. This ontological process repeats itself indefinitely and endlessly. At every moment, and moment after moment, the same eternal process of annihilation and re-creation is repeated. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 205)

All things proceed from God and unto Him they return. He is the source of all things and in Him all things are ended. KA#144

Know thou moreover that every created thing is continually brought forth and returned at the bidding of thy Lord, the God of power and might. TB.183

Man, having as it were floated into the world down the Universal stream of Emanation, now enters into his spirit, and so plunges beneath the stream, and there below its surface finds an undercurrent which begins to sweep him in a contrary direction towards the Source. (Pseudo-Dionysius, in Rolt p.25)

For all things sprung from a unity come together into a unity by natural necessity, so that, though they grow out different and come into being as opposites they are, all the same, drawn together into a single common order by the fact that they come from a unity. (Plotinus, Enn.III.3.1)     Now we must state what is the nature of the Good.... It is that on which everything depends and 'to which all beings aspire.' Enn.I.8.2     [the One] is that from which they come and to which they go; for all things originate from the One and strive towards the One. Enn.VI.2.11

This is the Ocean out of which all seas have proceeded, and with which every one of them will ultimately be united. From Him all the Suns have been generated, and unto Him they will all return. GWB#051 p104

Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it. Ecclesiastes 12:7
