



All this is by the grace of God! On whom He will, He bestoweth His grace. KI#170 p160

Thus with steadfast steps we may tread the Path of certitude, that perchance the breeze that bloweth from the meads of the good-pleasure of God may waft upon us the sweet savours of divine acceptance, and cause us, vanishing mortals that we are, to attain unto the Kingdom of everlasting glory. KI#146 p134

Methinks they have been moulded from the clay of infinite knowledge, and kneaded with the water of divine wisdom. Therefore, hath it been said: 'Knowledge ('ilm) is a light which God casteth into the heart of whomsoever He willeth.' It is this kind of knowledge which is and hath ever been praiseworthy, and not the limited knowledge that hath sprung forth from veiled and obscured minds. This limited knowledge they even stealthily borrow one from the other, and vainly pride themselves therein! KI#048 p046

Thus will these mysteries be unravelled, not by the aid of acquired learning, but solely through the assistance of God and the outpourings of His grace. KI#212 p192

It is clear, however, that mere human power is incapable of fulfilling this great office, and that the results of human thought alone cannot secure such bounties. How can a single person, with no aid or assistance, lay the foundations of such a lofty edifice? A divine and spiritual power is therefore needed to enable him to carry out this mission. SAQ#3.12 (was SAQ.009)

These gifts, however, do not manifest themselves in the reality of man save through a celestial and divine power and through the heavenly teachings, for they require a supernatural power. Traces of these perfections may well appear in the world of nature, but they are as fleeting and ephemeral as rays of sunlight upon the wall. SAQ#15.8 (was SAQ.080)

...the holy reality--the true existence--of every great man proceeds from God and owes its being to the breath of the Holy Spirit. SAQ#18.4 (was SAQ.090)

Man cannot free himself from the onslaught of vain and selfish desires save through the confirming grace of the Holy Spirit. SAQ#19.7 (was SAQ.092)

...it follows that the singling out of man for the highest degree is through the grace of God, and that the differences among men with regard to spiritual attainments and heavenly perfections are likewise due to the choice of the All-Merciful. For faith, which is life eternal, is a token of grace and not the result of justice. The flame of the fire of love, in this world of earth and water, burns by the power of attraction and not through human effort and striving, although through the latter one may indeed acquire knowledge, learning, and other perfections. It is the light of the divine Beauty, then, that must stir up and move the spirit through its attractive power. Wherefore is it said: "many are called, but few are chosen". SAQ#32.5 (was SAQ.130)

The aim of the theosophists is to attain to Truth, but the Truth is unattainable except through the favor of the Holy Spirit. The light hath a center, and if one desire to seek it otherwise than from the center, he can never attain unto it. TAB.592

Concerning the spirit of mercy which is from the command of God, it is the Holy Power, the divine confirmations, the knowledge of God, with which God aids whomsoever He willeth and thereby assists them to attain to the hidden visions and sure testimonies, and receive perfect and Ancient mercy and endless bounty. Then they will enter into the Paradise of Unity and the garden of eternity and rejoice through that with which God hath favored them with and will give thanks for His bounties.... (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:482 and AvK1.204ff)

These energies with which the Day Star of Divine bounty and Source of heavenly guidance hath endowed the reality of man lie, however, latent within him, even as the flame is hidden within the candle and the rays of light are potentially present in the lamp. Neither the candle nor the lamp can be lighted through their own unaided efforts, nor can it ever be possible for the mirror to free itself from its dross. It is clear and evident that until a fire is kindled the lamp will never be ignited, and unless the dross is blotted out from the face of the mirror it can never represent the image of the sun nor reflect its light and glory. GWB#027 p065-066, Ruhi1.3.11

The spirit of man must acquire its bounties from the Kingdom of God in order that it may become the mirror and manifestation of lights and the dawning point of divine traces, because the human reality is like the soil.... only the reality of man can become the mirror wherein the lights of God are revealed. PUP.330

Only when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of longing desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love, of rapture, and ecstasy, is kindled within the seeker's heart, and the breeze of His loving-kindness is wafted upon his soul, will the darkness of error be dispelled, the mists of doubts and misgivings be dissipated, and the lights of knowledge and certitude envelop his being. KI#216 p195-196, GWB#125 p267

To 'get to heaven' as you say is dependent on two things - faith in the Manifestation of God in His Day, in other words in this Age in Baha'u'llah; and good deeds, in other words living to the best of our ability a noble life and doing unto others as we would be done by. But we must always remember that our existence and everything we have or ever will have is dependent upon the Mercy of God and His Bounty, and therefore He can accept into His heaven, which is really nearness to Him, even the lowliest if He pleases. We always have the hope of receiving His Mercy if we reach out for it. LG#705 (12 Jan. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Make not your deeds as snares wherewith to entrap the object of your aspiration, and deprive not yourselves of this Ultimate Objective for which have ever yearned all such as have drawn nigh unto God. Say: The very life of all deeds is My good pleasure, and all things depend upon Mine acceptance. KA#036

Adorn yourselves with the raiment of goodly deeds. He whose deeds attain unto God's good pleasure is assuredly of the people of Baha and is remembered before His throne. Assist ye the Lord of all creation with works of righteousness, and also through wisdom and utterance. KA#073

Neither the candle nor the lamp can be lighted through their own unaided efforts, nor can it ever be possible for the mirror to free itself from its dross. GWB#027 p066

Let not this life and its deceits deceive you, for the world and all that is therein is held firmly in the grasp of His Will. He bestoweth His favor on whom He willeth, and from whom He willeth He taketh it away. He doth whatsoever He chooseth. GWB#103 p209

...all things are dependent upon His Will, and the worth of all acts is conditioned upon His acceptance and pleasure. The whole universe is but a handful of clay in His grasp. GWB#135 p293

Inspire then my soul, O my God, with Thy wondrous remembrance, that I may glorify Thy name. PM#056 p083

Whomsoever Thou willest Thou causest to draw nigh unto the Most Great Ocean, and on whomsoever Thou desirest Thou conferrest the honor of recognizing Thy Most Ancient Name. PM#059 p094

These journeys have no visible ending in this temporal world, but the detached wayfarer--should invisible confirmation descend upon him and the Guardian of the Cause assist him--may traverse these seven stages in seven steps, nay rather in seven breaths, nay even in a single breath, should God will and desire it. CDB#2.87 (was SV.40-41) ["The word 'Guardian' in the Seven Valleys has no connection with the Baha'i Guardianship." (From a letter dated 8 January 1949 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi.)]

Then some among the people were set afire with the wine of heaven, and some were left without a share of this greatest of bestowals.... This plenty is a special favour bestowed by a loving God, these are blessings and rare gifts deriving from His grace. In the Gospel He saith: 'For many are called, but few are chosen.' [Matthew 22:14] That is, to many is it offered, but rare is the soul who is singled out to receive the great bestowal of guidance. 'Such is the bounty of God: to whom He will He giveth it, and of immense bounty is God' [Qur'an 57:21] SWAB#002 p008-009

Ask whatsoever thou wishest of Him alone; seek whatsoever thou seekest from Him alone. With a look He granteth a hundred thousand hopes, with a glance He healeth a hundred thousand incurable ills, with a nod He layeth balm on every wound, with a glimpse He freeth the hearts from the shackles of grief. He doeth as He doeth, and what recourse have we? He carrieth out His Will, He ordaineth what He pleaseth. Then better for thee to bow down thy head in submission, and put thy trust in the All-Merciful Lord. SWAB#022 p051

God's eternal Mercy is immeasurable. He has always chosen certain souls upon whom He has shed the Divine Bounty of His heart, whose minds He has illumined with celestial light, to whom He has revealed the sacred mysteries, and kept clear before their sight the Mirror of Truth. PT#16:9 p057

Now, thou hast reached development and apprehended the degree of maturity: Gaze at the grades of the existence, the realities of things, the allegories in the epistles of God, and the mysteries in the Old and New Testament. By the life of Baha, the covering will be removed from thee, and thou will be informed of that which all the philosophers and wise men are unable to apprehend. Verily, this is a gift which God assigns only to such of His chosen servants as He willeth. TAB.166

Paradise signifieth first and foremost the good-pleasure of God. Whosoever attaineth His good-pleasure is reckoned and recorded among the inhabitants of the most exalted paradise and will attain, after the ascension of his soul, that which pen and ink are powerless to describe. TU.3#11

O people! Withhold not from yourselves the grace of God and His mercy. Whoso withholdeth himself therefrom is indeed in grievous loss. GWB#052 p104

Were anyone to wash the feet of all mankind, and were he to worship God in the forests, valleys, and mountains, upon high hills and lofty peaks, to leave no rock or tree, no clod of earth, but was a witness to his worship -- yet, should the fragrance of My good pleasure not be inhaled from him, his works would never be acceptable unto God. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Lord of all. How many a man hath secluded himself in the climes of India, denied himself the things that God hath decreed as lawful, imposed upon himself austerities and mortifications, and hath not been remembered by God, the Revealer of Verses. KA#036

How many a soul expended all its span of life in worship, endured the mortification of the flesh, longed to gain an entry into the Kingdom, and yet failed, while ye, with neither toil nor pain nor self-denial, have won the prize and entered in. SWAB#006 p018

Is there any giver save God? He singleth out for His mercy whomsoever He willeth. SWAB#157 p186

Look not upon my hopes and my doings, nay rather look upon Thy will that hath encompassed the heavens and the earth. By Thy Most Great Name, O Thou Lord of all nations! I have desired only what Thou didst desire, and love only what Thou dost love. PM#183 p318, Ruhi1.2.6

O Lord! I am a broken-winged bird and desire to soar in Thy limitless space. How is it possible for me to do this save through Thy providence and grace, Thy confirmation and assistance. BP.178-179, Ruhi6.3.31 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Should the breath of the Holy Spirit confirm the weakest of creatures, he would attain all to which he aspireth and would possess anything he desireth. TDP.107, Ruhi6.3.31

In the darksome night of despair, my eye turneth expectant and full of hope to the morn of Thy boundless favor and at the hour of dawn my drooping soul is refreshed and strengthened in remembrance of Thy beauty and perfection. He whom the grace of Thy mercy aideth, though he be but a drop, shall become the boundless ocean, and the merest atom which the outpouring of Thy loving-kindness assisteth, shall shine even as the radiant star. BP.031, Ruhi7.1.5 (Abdu'l-Baha)

O My creatures! All that ye perform, throughout your lives, with utmost striving and endeavour, is for the sake of attaining My good pleasure. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.290)

Thou art, in truth, He Whose mercy hath encompassed all the worlds, and Whose grace hath embraced all that dwell on earth and in heaven. Who is there that hath cried after Thee, and whose prayer hath remained unanswered?... I bear witness that Thou hadst turned toward Thy servants ere they had turned toward Thee, and hadst remembered them ere they had remembered Thee. PM#161 p254

For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. Ephesians 2:8-9

For the doings of men are all dependent upon Thy good-pleasure, and are conditioned by Thy behest. Shouldst Thou regard him who hath broken the fast as one who hath observed it, such a man would be reckoned among them who from eternity had been keeping the fast. And shouldst Thou decree that he who hath observed the fast hath broken it, that person would be numbered with such as have caused the Robe of Thy Revelation to be stained with dust... PM#046 p067

It is right that the soul, as far as it is able, should work to purify itself, that it may merit that God take it into his Divine care and heal it of those imperfections before which it is helpless. For, after all the efforts of the soul, it cannot by its unaided labours make itself fitted for union with God in love. God must take it himself into his own hands and purify it in the dark fire. (St. John of the Cross, Dark Night of the Soul, Bk 1:3)




...spirituality is the greatest of God's gifts, and `Life Everlasting' means `Turning to God'. PT#35:15 p112

Paradise signifieth first and foremost the good-pleasure of God. Whosoever attaineth His good-pleasure is reckoned and recorded among the inhabitants of the most exalted paradise and will attain, after the ascension of his soul, that which pen and ink are powerless to describe. TU.3#11

It is true that in the divine utterances this statement is found: that Paradise is the station of recognizing the one true God and Hell is the state of being veiled from the Lord of Lords. The intent of this, however, is not that the spiritual world and the infinite outpourings of that realm do not exist. I beg forgiveness of God for this! Nay, rather, the meaning is that such states of knowledge and ignorance are like unto a tree, while bliss and torment in all the divine worlds are like unto its fruit. In every stage, the bounty and chastisement of God exist. In the world of the heart recognition is a gift and being veiled is a chastisement, for the basis of every gift and chastisement in all the worlds of God are these two things. AvK1.200, MKT1:338; PC00508

Although all the worlds of God have ever circled around this world, and will always continue to circle around it, still, in every world for every soul a destiny is determined and appointed. Therefore, think not that what hath been revealed in the Book of God is idle talk. Far exalted is God from such an imagining! I swear by the Daystar of the heaven of divine knowledge, that, in all truth, matchless paradises ever have been and shall be theirs. Although in this first life the meaning of Paradise is His good-pleasure and entrance into His Cause, after the ascension of the believers from this world, they shall gain admittance into matchless paradises and shall enjoy inestimable delights. Those paradises are the outcome of the deeds which they have performed in this world. AvK1.279-280 (Baha'u'llah, Lawh-i-Yusuf); PA00367




Make not your deeds as snares wherewith to entrap the object of your aspiration, and deprive not yourselves of this Ultimate Objective for which have ever yearned all such as have drawn nigh unto God. Say: The very life of all deeds is My good pleasure, and all things depend upon Mine acceptance. KA#036

Thy purpose in performing thy deeds is that God may graciously accept them; and divine acceptance can in no wise be achieved except through the acceptance of Him Who is the Exponent of His Revelation. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.289)
