



One should remember it is not the individual who confirms another, but the Holy Spirit which confirms. Thus the individual must become a reed, through which the spirit may descend, and quicken souls.     Thus the best way to develop capacity in teaching the Faith, is to teach. As one teaches, he gains more knowledge himself, he relies more on the guidance of the spirit, and expands his own character. This is why Baha'u'llah made it incumbent on all to teach the Faith. LG#2031 (24 Nov. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Consecration, dedication and enthusiastic service is the keynote to successful teaching. One must become like a reed through which the Holy Spirit descends to reach the student of the Faith. We give the Message, and explain the Teachings, but it is the Holy Spirit that quickens and confirms. COC#1989 (16 Feb. 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

What is needed to achieve success in the teaching field is a complete dedication on the part of the individual, consecration to the glorious task of spreading the Faith, and the living of the Baha'i life, because that creates the magnet for the Holy Spirit, and it is the Holy Spirit which quickens the new soul. Thus, the individual should be as a reed, through which the Holy Spirit may flow, to give new life to the seeking soul. COC#1984 (18 Dec. 1953 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The true basis of prayer is for the individual to hold himself as a reed, through which the Holy Spirit may flow. His will should be completely submissive to the Will of God. When this is done, then the Hosts of the Unseen Kingdom have an opportunity to assist and direct the individual. Thus it may be seen that sometimes the answer is not what is expected by the individual, but what is best for the Cause of God. The Guardian has so often pointed out that there are three elements of prayer -- meditation, supplication and action. It is most important that an individual act, because it is only while the individual is acting that a prayer can be answered. (31 Dec. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Everyone must remember that it is the "Holy Spirit that quickens" and therefore the teacher must become like a reed through which the Holy Spirit may reach the seeking soul. COC#1995 (30 May 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is important that you make contact with pure hearted individuals, gain their confidence, they gain confidence in you, and then gradually teach them. It is better to concentrate on a few, rather than attempt to teach too many at a time. Consecration, devotion, dedication, humility are essential, that the Holy Spirit may use you as a reed for the diffusion of Its creative rays. COC#1997 (15 Jul. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Dedication to the heavenly task, complete consecration to the noble mission, and living the life, are the qualities needed for success in the teaching field. These virtues attract the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, and thus the individual becomes the reed through which that Holy Spirit may confirm the seeking souls. (30 Dec. 1953 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi) (1st sentence in HE.056)

Teaching the Cause of God is the source of divine confirmation; however, teaching is dependent upon complete dedication to the Cause, and complete consecration. If an individual can become a reed through which the Holy Spirit may move to another individual who is being contacted, then there will be true success and spiritual growth on the part of the recipient of the Message. Thus the state of dedication and consecration of the individual is most important in the teaching work. (4 Oct. 1952 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is the Holy Spirit which quickens the souls, not the teacher. The teacher is the reed; the Holy Spirit is the Water of Life passing through the reed. (9 Jul. 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
