



The Master said when we feel we should do a thing and then make every effort, and the doors open, this is guidance. If, in spite of all we do, the doors remain closed, it cannot be guidance, generally speaking. (9 Feb. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, quoted in a Research memo dated 17 Jul. 1989)

The Master said guidance was then the doors opened after we tried. We can pray, ask to do God's will only, try hard, and then if we find our plan is not working out, assume it is not the right one, at least for the moment. M63-86 214.6 (29 Oct. 1952 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

God has endowed human beings with more than one way of receiving guidance in the decisions we have to make, as 'Abdu'l-Baha has explained. There are the Holy Writings, in which are clear directions for the way in which we should live; if an inner voice prompts us to act contrary to the explicit teachings we can be sure that, far from being an inspiration from God, that inner voice is the expression of our own lower nature, and should be disregarded. There is also the gift of intelligence and good judgement--the faculty which distinguishes man form the animal kingdom; God intends us to use this faculty, which can be a powerful instrument for distinguishing between true inspirations and vain imaginings. There is the power of prayer through which we strive to purity our motives, to see the Will of God and to implore His guidance and assistance. There is also the law of consultation, one of the distinguishing features of this great Revelation. Consultation is to be used not only in the functioning of the Administrative Order, but is also available for the individual in solving his own problems; he may consult with his Assembly, with his family and with his friends. Thus, in solving the problems which now confront you, the House of Justice urges you to worry less about the desirability of following what you perceive to be inspiration, and to bring to bear the other methods that God has given for the solution of difficulties. (29 Nov. 1982 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, quoted in a Research memo dated 17 July 1989)

This should not necessarily mean a failure on your part; it could simply mean that the door you are wishing to force upon should, for reasons not immediately clear to you, remain closed. Certainly, you are free to open other doors. (11 Jun. 1987 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, quoted in a Research memo dated 17 Jul. 1989)

We cannot clearly distinguish between personal desire and guidance, but if the way opens, when we have sought guidance, then we may presume God is helping us. LG#1482 (25 Jan. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
