



Righteous men of learning who dedicate themselves to the guidance of others and are freed and well guarded from the prompting of a base and covetous nature are ... stars of the heaven of true knowledge.  It is essential to treat them with deference. TB.096-097

...make my heart a receptacle of Thy love and of remembrance of Thee. Knit it, then, to Thy most great Ocean, that from it may flow out the living waters of Thy wisdom and the crystal streams of thy glorification and praise. PM#040 p056, Ruhi6.3.31

O wayfarer in the path of God! Take thou thy portion of the ocean of His grace, and deprive not thyself of the things that lie hidden in its depths. Be thou of them that have partaken of its treasures. A dewdrop out of this ocean would, if shed upon all that are in the heavens and on the earth, suffice to enrich them with the bounty of God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. With the hands of renunciation draw forth from its life-giving waters, and sprinkle therewith all created things, that they may be cleansed from all man-made limitations and may approach the mighty seat of God, this hallowed and resplendent spot. GWB#129 p279-280, Ruhi2.1.1, Ruhi4.3.6, Ruhi6.3.21

God will, no doubt, inspire whosoever detacheth himself from all else but Him, and will cause the pure waters of wisdom and utterance to gush out and flow copiously from his heart. GWB#144 p314

Obstruct not the luminous spring of thy soul with the thorns and brambles of vain and inordinate affections, and impede not the flow of the living waters that stream from the fountain of thine heart. GWB#153 p323

...a station where, out of the truth of their inmost hearts, a spring of wisdom will well up, and jet forth even as a fountain that leapeth from its own original source. SWAB#142 p167

Everyone must remember that it is the "Holy Spirit that quickens" and therefore the teacher must become like a reed through which the Holy Spirit may reach the seeking soul. COC#1995 (30 May 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
