



The Guardian has ... given his careful consideration to your question regarding the Baha'i view of birth control. ...there is no reference whatsoever in the Writings on this subject. The utmost we can say is by way of reference from what Baha'u'llah has revealed regarding the nature, purpose and character of marriage. We, as Baha'is, are not therefore in a position either to condemn the practice of birth control or to confirm it. Birth control, however, when exercised in order to deliberately prevent the procreation of any children is against the Spirit of the Law of Baha'u'llah, which defines the primary purpose of marriage to be the rearing of children and their spiritual training in the Cause. The Universal House of Justice will have to consider this issue and give its verdict upon it. LG#1162 (4 Feb. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As you have keenly observed, the Universal House of Justice may consider it untimely to make definitive rulings on certain matters to which no direct reference can be found in the Sacred Text. Among these are euthanasia and certain aspects of birth control and abortion, and until such time as rulings are made, these matters are left to the consciences of those concerned who must weigh the medical advice on the case in the light of general guidance given in the Teachings. LG#982 (From a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

As to the problem of birth control. Neither Baha'u'llah nor 'Abdu'l-Baha has revealed anything direct or explicit regarding this question. But the Baha'i Teachings, when carefully studied imply that such current conceptions like birth control, if not necessarily wrong and immoral in principle, have nevertheless to be discarded as constituting a real danger to the very foundation of our social life. For Baha'u'llah explicitly reveals in His Book of Laws that the very purpose of marriage is the procreation of children who, when grown up, will be able to know God and to recognize and observe His Commandments and Laws as revealed through His Messengers. Marriage is thus, according to the Baha'i Teachings, primarily a social and moral act. It has purpose which transcends the immediate personal needs and interests of the parties. Birth control, except in certain exceptional cases, is therefore not permissible. LG#1160 (14 Oct. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As to birth control methods, the House of Justice does not wish to comment on the effectiveness or possible hazards of present-day contraceptive agents, and leaves it to individuals to decide what course of action they will take in light of the teachings and the best medical advice available... LG#1169 (4 March 1980 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

Birth control and artificial insemination, not being mentioned in the teachings, are matters for the International House of Justice to decide upon. There is nothing for the present to make us believe, however, that they are wrong if practised. (14 Jan 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Regarding the idea of preventing procreation - this is absolutely not permitted. AB11370 (Abdu'l-Baha, provis. trans.)
