



Likewise, reflect upon the state and condition of Mary. So deep was the perplexity of that most beauteous countenance, so grievous her case, that she bitterly regretted she had ever been born.... Reflect, what answer could Mary have given to the people around her? How could she claim that a Babe Whose father was unknown had been conceived of the Holy Ghost?... And now, meditate upon this most great convulsion, this grievous test. Notwithstanding all these things, God conferred upon that essence of the Spirit, Who was known amongst the people as fatherless, the glory of Prophethood, and made Him His testimony unto all that are in heaven and on earth. KI#059-060 p056-057

Question. -- How was Christ born of the Holy Spirit? Answer: In regard to this question, the divine and the material philosophers disagree. The former believe that Christ was born of the Holy Spirit, while the latter deem such a thing to be impossible and untenable, and hold that He must have necessarily had a human father. ...surely the first man had neither father nor mother, for the existence of the human species has an origin in time. Now, which is more problematic: that man should come into being, albeit gradually, with neither father nor mother, or that he should come into being without a father? SAQ#17.1 (was SAQ.087)

It is with the Lord Christ even as with Adam. Did the first human being who came into existence on this earth have a father or mother? It is certain that he had neither. But Christ lacked only a father. SWAB#139 p161

The honour and greatness of Christ reside not in His being without a father, but rather in His divine perfections, outpourings, and splendours. Were the greatness of Christ due to His lacking a father, Adam would be even greater, for He had neither father nor mother.... In brief, the honour and glory of those sanctified Souls, the Manifestations of God, are due to Their heavenly perfections, outpourings, and splendours, and to nothing else. SAQ#18.2-6 (was SAQ.089-090)

The only alternative therefore is to admit that the birth of Jesus has been miraculous. The operation of miracles is not necessarily irrational or illogical. It does by no means constitute a limitation of the Omnipotence of God. The belief in the possibilities of miracles, on the contrary, implies that God's power is beyond any limitation whatsoever. For it is only logical to believe that the Creator, Who is the sole Author of all the laws operating in the universe, is above them and can, therefore, if He deems it necessary, alter them at His Own Will. We, as humans, cannot possibly attempt to read His Mind, and to fully grasp His Wisdom. Mystery is therefore an inseparable part of true religion, and as such, should be recognized by the believers. LG#1641 (1 Oct. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

With regard to your question concerning the Virgin Birth of Jesus; on this point, as on several others, the Baha'i Teachings are in full agreement with the doctrines of the Catholic Church. In the 'Kitab-i-Iqan' (Book of Certitude) p. 56, and in a few other Tablets still unpublished, Baha'u'llah confirms, however, indirectly, the Catholic conception of the Virgin Birth. Also 'Abdu'l-Baha in the 'Some Answered Questions', Chap. XII, p.73, explicitly states that 'Christ found existence through the Spirit of God' which statement necessarily implies, when viewed in the light of the text, that Jesus was not the son of Joseph. LG#1639 (14 Oct. 1945 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

We believe that Christ only was conceived immaculately. His brothers and sisters would have been born in the natural way and conceived naturally. LG#1640 (19 Nov. 1945 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As to the position of Christianity, let it be stated without any hesitation or equivocation that its Divine origin is unconditionally acknowledged, that the Sonship and Divinity of Jesus Christ are fearlessly asserted, that the Divine inspiration of the Gospel is fully recognized, that the reality of the mystery of the Immaculacy of the Virgin Mary is confessed... PDC#269 p113

What science calls a virgin birth we do not associate with that of Jesus Christ, which we believe to have been a miracle and a sign of His Prophethood. In this matter we are in entire agreement with the most orthodox church views. HE.070 (on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, date unknown)

First regarding the birth of Jesus Christ. In the light of what Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha have stated concerning this subject it is evident that Jesus came into this world through the direct intervention of the Holy Spirit, and that consequently His birth was quite miraculous. This is an established fact, and the friends need not feel at all surprised, as the belief in the possibility of miracles has never been rejected in the Teachings. Their importance, however, has been minimized. LG#1637 (31 Dec. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Again with regard to your question relative to the birth of Jesus; he wishes me to inform you that there is nothing further he can add to the explanation he have you in his previous communication regarding this point. One thing, however, he wishes again to bring to your attention, namely that miracles are always possible, even though they do not constitute a regular channel whereby God reveals His power to mankind. To reject miracles on the ground that they imply a breach in the laws of nature is a very shallow, well nigh stupid argument, inasmuch as God Who is the Author of the universe can, in His Wisdom and Omnipotence, bring any change, no matter how temporary, in the operation of the laws which He Himself created. LG#1638 (27 Feb. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The Master clearly writes in a Tablet that Christ was not begotten in the ordinary way, but by the Holy Spirit. So we must accept this. Every Faith has some miracles, and this is the great miracle of the Christian Faith. But we must not let it be a test to us. Our human minds are so small, and as yet so immature compared to the men of the future, that we should have no difficulty in acknowledging the Power of God when He chooses to show it in some manner 'illogical' to us! (23 Dec. 1948 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in a letter dated 16 Feb. 1996 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an individual)

In Some Answered Questions, Chapter XII, page 73, we find that the Master shows that the Prophecy of Isaiah, Chapter II verses 1-10, not only proves that the "Branch" from the stem of Jesse did not refer to Christ but to Baha'u'llah, but also states the immaculate conception: "This rod out of the stem of Jesse might be correctly applied to Christ, for Joseph was of the decendants of Jesse, the Father of David: But as Christ found existence through the Spirit of God, He called Himself the Son of God. If He had not done so, this description would refer to Him. Moreover, the prophecies were fulfilled at that time. Universal peace did not come into existence at the time of Christ. In the word "but" the Master makes the immaculate conception quite clear. In a Tablet that has not yet been translated from the original Persian, the Master says the conception of Christ was extraordinary, against the natural law. He defines the natural law and says it was not according to this law. The Baha'is must accept the immaculate conception. Every religion has its mysteries. The Virgin Mary's perplexity was not due to shame, but because she could not explain her condition. (Maxwell pilgrim notes, 1937, vol. 1)

Some of the pupils in the Schools of Science once came to 'Akka and asked the question regarding the Immaculate Conception of our Lord. He answered, "A living body cannot come from a dead body; only a living man can make a living child -- this is a scientific fact." The Scientists answered, "It is impossible for a child to be born without a father" and that nothing could change their opinion concerning it.... Our Lord said, "You believe in the Creation of man? (Adam). They said "Yes." Our Lord said to them, "And who were the father and mother of Adam? You said they you couldn't believe that Jesus Christ could be born without an earthly father (whom He had a Mother) yet you can believe that Adam was born without either." (pilgrim notes "Taken at the Holy Household")

Regarding immaculate conception: the Master and Baha'u'llah both confirmed this. It is true but do not stress it. (Pilgrim notes of Emeric Sala, Dec. 1937)

The churches teach doctrines--various ones in various creeds--which we as Baha'is do not accept; such as the bodily Resurrection, confession, or in some creeds, the denial of the Immaculate Conception. LG#530 (24 Jun. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Regarding the virgin birth of Jesus; this is a truth clearly stated in the Holy Qur'an, and which Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha confirm, no matter how indirectly in their Writings. Should such a belief cause so much surprise among the friends? Certainly not, for we as Baha'is ought to believe, if not in all the miracles reported in the Bible, at least in their possibility. For there's nothing irrational in miracles. God, Who is the author of this universe can well, if He deems it wise, alter the operation of its laws. Otherwise, He would cease to be supreme. Has He not been called by Baha'u'llah the Unconstrained? And who knows His purpose in causing the virgin birth of Jesus? Who is man to question the ways and methods of God? (20 Dec. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The Christians have exaggerated the birth of Jesus. (Pilgrim notes of Mrs. Goodall, Oct. 1910, PN_1912 p015)

How can a man believe to be a fact that which science has proved to be impossible? If he believes in spite of his reason, it is rather ignorant superstition than faith. The true principles of all religions are in conformity with the teachings of science. PT#44:2-3
