



This spirit is the discovering power that encompasses all things. All the wondrous signs, all the crafts and discoveries, all the mighty undertakings and momentous historical events of which you are aware, have been discovered by this spirit and brought forth from the invisible realm into the visible plane through its spiritual power. Thus it abides upon the earth and yet makes discoveries in the heavens, and deduces that which is unknown from known and visible realities. SAQ#36.4 (was SAQ.144)

All sciences, arts, inventions, crafts, and discoveries of realities proceed from this singular power.... ...all the existing sciences and crafts, all the great undertakings and myriad discoveries of man were at one time hidden and concealed mysteries, and it is that all-encompassing human power that has discovered them and brought them forth from the invisible into the visible realm. SAQ#48.4 (was SAQ.186)

Through the mere revelation of the word 'Fashioner,' issuing forth from His lips and proclaiming His attribute to mankind, such power is released as can generate, through successive ages, all the manifold arts which the hands of man can produce. GWB#074 p141-142

Its [the Word of God's] appearance in every mirror is conditioned by the color of the mirror. For instance, when its light is cast upon the mirrors of the hearts of the wise, it bringeth forth wisdom. In like manner when it manifesteth itself in the mirrors of the hearts of craftsmen, it unfoldeth new and unique arts, and when reflected in the hearts of those that apprehend the truth it revealeth wondrous tokens of true knowledge and discloseth the verities of God's utterance. (Baha'u'llah, in compilation on professions)

Through the power of the rational soul, man can discover the realities of things, comprehend their properties, and penetrate the mysteries of existence. All the sciences, branches of learning, arts, inventions, institutions, undertakings, and discoveries have resulted from the comprehension of the rational soul. These were once impenetrable secrets, hidden mysteries, and unknown realities, and the rational soul gradually discovered them and brought them out of the invisible plane into the realm of the visible. This is the greatest power of comprehension in the world of nature, and the uttermost limit of its flight is to comprehend the realities, signs, and properties of contingent things.... The spiritual power associated with the world of nature is the power of investigation, and it is through investigation that it discovers the realities and properties of things. SAQ#58.3-4 (was SAQ.217-218)

God has conferred upon and added to man a distinctive power - the faculty of intellectual investigation into the secrets of creation, the acquisition of higher knowledge - the greatest virtue of which is scientific enlightenment. PUP.031

The source of crafts, sciences and arts is the power of reflection (mutafakkirah - contemplation). Make ye every effort that out of this ideal mine there may gleam forth such pearls of wisdom and utterance as will promote the well-being and harmony of all the kindreds of the earth. TB.072, Ruhi5.3.9

Whatsoever thou dost see about thee - wondrous products of human workmanship, inventions, discoveries and like evidences - each one of these was once a secret hidden away in the realm of the unknown. The human spirit laid that secret bare, and drew it forth from the unseen into the visible world. SWAB#145 p169-170

...all sciences, arts, crafts, inventions and discoveries, have been once the secrets of nature and in conformity with the laws thereof must remain hidden; yet man through his discovering power interfereth with the laws of nature and transfereth these hidden secrets from the invisible to the visible plane. Forel.11-12

...all the existing crafts, inventions, sciences, and branches of learning have been discovered by the human reality. At one time they were all hidden and concealed mysteries, but the reality of man gradually discovered them and brought them forth from the invisible world into the visible realm. SAQ#71.6 (was SAQ.252)

Consider carefully: all these highly varied phenomena, these concepts, this knowledge, these technical procedures and philosophical systems, these sciences, arts, industries and inventions--all are emanations of the human mind. Whatever people has ventured deeper into this shoreless sea, has come to excel the rest. The happiness and pride of a nation consist in this, that it should shine out like the sun in the high heaven of knowledge. 'Shall they who have knowledge and they who have it not, be treated alike?' [Qur'an 39:12] SDC.002

All the sciences, arts and discoveries were mysteries of nature, and according to natural law these mysteries should remain latent, hidden; but man has proceeded to break this law, free himself from this rule and bring them forth into the realm of the visible. PUP.017

All the existing arts and sciences were once hidden secrets of nature. By his command and control of nature man took them out of the plane of the invisible and revealed them in the plane of visibility... PUP.081

The intelligence of man, his reasoning powers, his knowledge, his scientific achievements, all these being manifestations of the spirit, partake of the inevitable law of spiritual progress and are, therefore, of necessity, immortal. PT#29:9 p090

Mysteries that were hidden he discovers; and secrets that were concealed he brings into the light.  By Science and by Art he brings hidden powers into the region of the visible world.  Man perceives the hidden law in created things and co-operates with it. AL.023




...thou shouldst investigate all things in a methodical and scientific way, and by clear proofs, perspicuous signs and incontrovertible evidences, seek to discover the undisclosed verities and the hidden mysteries which are concealed in the inmost heart of the realities of the universe. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:022)

Ye must therefore put forth a mighty effort ... to acquire an abundant share of all the sciences and arts, that the Divine Image, which shineth out from the Sun of Truth, may illumine the mirror of the hearts of men. SWAB#118 p140

Arts, crafts and sciences uplift the world of being, and are conducive to its exaltation. Knowledge is as wings to man's life, and a ladder for his ascent. Its acquisition is incumbent upon everyone. The knowledge of such sciences, however, should be acquired as can profit the peoples of the earth, and not those which begin with words and end with words. Great indeed is the claim of scientists and craftsmen on the peoples of the world.... In truth, knowledge is a veritable treasure for man, and a source of glory, of bounty, of joy, of exaltation, of cheer and gladness unto him. ESW.026-027 [TB.051-052], Ruhi2.3.12 (last sentence), Ruhi2.3.12 (1st and 2nd sentence)

There are certain pillars which have been established as the unshakeable supports of the Faith of God. The mightiest of these is learning and the use of the mind, the expansion of consciousness, and insight into the realities of the universe and the hidden mysteries of Almighty God. To promote knowledge is thus an inescapable duty imposed on every one of the friends of God. SWAB#097 p126, Ruhi5.3.8

Knowledge is one of the wondrous gifts of God. It is incumbent upon everyone to acquire it. TB.039

It is incumbent upon thee to acquire the various branches of knowledge, and to turn thy face toward the beauty of the Manifest Beauty, that thou mayest be a sign of saving guidance amongst the peoples of the world, and a focal centre of understanding in this sphere from which the wise and their wisdom are shut out, except for those who set foot in the Kingdom of lights and become informed of the veiled and hidden mystery, the well-guarded secret. SWAB#072 p110

Be ye in that land vanguards of the perfections of humankind; carry forward the various branches of knowledge, be active and progressive in the field of inventions and the arts. SWAB#102 p129

To promote learning, to propagate education and all the branches of useful knowledge, to encourage the spread of information as to the secrets of creation, to decipher the codes that are hidden away in the inmost core of all things, to study sciences that are beneficial and learn to unravel the secrets of the earth and to conquer the very summits of the mysteries of the universe - not only are these among the binding and inescapable duties of humankind, but in these lie the primary means whereby man can continually go forward and prosper. Expressly stated in the Divine Texts is this, that the greatest encouragement must be given to such pursuits. This is clearly established in all the Tablets, and there is no action that could be more acceptable and more worthy of praise than this. 'Shall they be held equal, those who know and those who do not know?' (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha, in a compilation on matter and the study of science; MMK6#451, TC00126) - unpub.

Make every effort to acquire the advanced knowledge of the day, and strain every nerve to carry forward the divine civilization... (From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha in the Compilation on Scholarship, #3)

...I most urgently request the friends of God to make every effort, as much as lieth within their competence, along these lines. The harder they strive to widen the scope of their knowledge, the better and more gratifying will be the result. (From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha in the Compilation on Scholarship, #4)

All mankind must be given a knowledge of science and philosophy - that is, as much as may be deemed necessary. All cannot be scientists and philosophers, but each should be educated according to his needs and deserts. PUP.108

Study the sciences, acquire more and more knowledge. Assuredly one may learn to the end of one's life! PT#11:13 p043

First of all, be ready to sacrifice your lives for one another, to prefer the general well-being to your personal well-being. Create relationships that nothing can shake; form an assembly that nothing can break up; have a mind that never ceases acquiring riches that nothing can destroy. ADP.112, Ruhi5.2.20

My hope for you is that as you travel through the universe of existence you will ever become acquainted with new and wonderful significances; that your knowledge will ever be increased - knowledge without limitation; then you will understand the realities existing in all kingdoms. ADP.118

O Lord, help Thou Thy loved ones to acquire knowledge and the sciences and arts, and to unravel the secrets that are treasured up in the inmost reality of all created beings. Make them to hear the hidden truths that are written and embedded in the heart of all that is.... The attainment of the most great guidance is dependent upon knowledge and wisdom, and on being informed as to the mysteries of the Holy Words. Wherefore must the loved ones of God ... each one according to his capabilities, strive to acquire the various branches of knowledge, and to increase his understanding of the mysteries of the Holy Books, and his skill in marshaling the divine proofs and evidences. COC#578, BP.103, Ruhi7.2.4 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The harder they strive to widen the scope of their knowledge, the better and more gratifying will be the result. Let the loved ones of God ... bestir themselves and spare no efforts to acquire the various current branches of knowledge, both spiritual and secular, and of the arts. (Abdu'l-Baha, in Compilation on Education, #27)

It is clear that learning is the greatest bestowal of God; that knowledge and the acquirement thereof is a blessing from Heaven. Thus is it incumbent upon the friends of God to exert such an effort and strive with such eagerness to promote divine knowledge, culture and the sciences... (Abdu'l-Baha, in Compilation on Education, #72)

In His Tablets He has encouraged and rather urged (the people) to study philosophy. Therefore, in the religion of Baha'u'llah philosophy is highly esteemed. SW v12#12 p194 (Tablet to Alwyn J. Baker)

Verily I say, whatsoever leadeth to the decline of ignorance and the increase of knowledge hath been, and will ever remain, approved in the sight of the Lord of creation. TU.1#15

Wherefore, O ye illumined youth, strive by night and by day to unravel the mysteries of the mind and spirit, and to grasp the secrets of the Day of God. Inform yourselves of the evidences that the Most Great Name hath dawned. Open your lips in praise. Adduce convincing arguments and proofs. Lead those who thirst to the fountain of life; grant ye true health to the ailing. Be ye apprentices of God; be ye physicians directed by God, and heal ye the sick among humankind. Bring those who have been excluded into the circle of intimate friends. Make the despairing to be filled with hope. Waken them that slumber; make the heedless mindful. Such are the fruits of this earthly life. Such is the station of resplendent glory. COC#2234 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The learned of the day must direct the people to acquire those branches of knowledge which are of use, that both the learned themselves and the generality of mankind may derive benefits therefrom. Such academic pursuits as begin and end in words alone have never been and will never be of any worth. The majority of Persia's learned doctors devote all their lives to the study of a philosophy the ultimate yield of which is nothing but words. TB.169

The tenth Glad-Tidings: It is permissible to study sciences and arts, but such sciences as are useful and would redound to the progress and advancement of the people. TB.026

At the outset of every endeavour, it is incumbent to look to the end of it. Of all the arts and sciences, set the children to studying those which will result in advantage to man, will ensure his progress and elevate his rank. TB.168

The important factor in human improvement is the mind. In the world of the mind there must needs be development and improvement. There must be reformation in the kingdom of the human spirit; otherwise, no result will be attained from betterment of the mere physical structure. PUP.278
