



Know then that, as hath been clearly handed down in the accounts of old, these great orbits and circuits fall within subtle, fluid, clear, liquid, undulating and vibrating bodies, and that the heavens are a restrained (blind - makfuf) wave because a void is impossible and inconceivable. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:025)

Praise be to God, Who created the water through His manifest utterance in the Kingdom of Eternity. Then He gazed upon it and lo, it trembled within itself and a part of it became congealed. Thus the dusty earth appeared by His established decree in the world of origination. When these two elements became separated and distinguished one from another, the Tongue of Grandeur pronounced another word, and this water generated by the Will [mashiyyat] of the Most Manifest in the world of contingency moved, in that same realm of contingency, upon the earth generated by the Purpose [iradih] of the All-Merciful. By the interaction of these two a subtle, spiritual, luminous heat [harara] ascended by virtue of its potency to the uppermost degree in order to attain the station of which its all-glorious Lord speaketh. When it reached the utmost level, it stopped at that loftiest station, which is known as the loftiest sphere. Then the water became partially mixed with the earth and from them ascended another heat, which, on account of its feebleness, did not attain to the level of the first. It stopped at another station, which indicates the second sphere. In like manner, a heat ascended from these two one time after another until all the stations, by which is meant meant the spheres, became completed. Then the Tongue of Grandeur pronounced another word which caused the stations and spheres to revolve. From the force of the rotation a light shone forth and encompassed the face of heaven. Then brilliant stars and shining orbs appeared. When the majesty of His name, the Self-Subsisting, encompassed them from all directions, each one of the two became spherical, as is seen in the case of the sun and the moon. Exalted be the wise and almighty Creator, Who made His exalted Word to be the origin of the creation of the higher and lower worlds, the four elements, and the exalted, originated natures. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in Fa'ilayn va Munfa'ilayn, Andalib 5:19 p.32, INBA17:79-80)

Thou hast, moreover, asked Me concerning the nature of the celestial spheres. To comprehend their nature, it would be necessary to inquire into the meaning of the allusions that have been made in the Books of old to the celestial spheres and the heavens, and to discover the character of their relationship to this physical world, and the influence which they exert upon it. Every heart is filled with wonder at so bewildering a theme, and every mind is perplexed by its mystery. GWB#082 p162-163

He made the circuits of these luminous divine orbs to be their lofty and celestial spheres; and He made the bodies of these spiritual spheres to be subtle and soft, flowing and liquid, undulating and vibrating, in such manner that these refulgent orbs swim in the circumferences of the spheres, and move in their vast space by the aid of their Creator and Maker, their Ordainer and Fashioner. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:014)

When the Prophets spoke of the celestial spheres what they intended was no more than the orbits of the planets falling within that greater world that embraces the sun and its attendant planetary system. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:024)

As for those who claim that the celestial spheres are massive, solid and contiguous with each other; that they are glassy, transparent and penetrable to the light of other bodies; capable of neither being cleft asunder nor welded back together; forever impermeable and imperishable - these thoughts are mere suppositions and surmises made by people who have not understood the meaning of the brilliant verse that clearly states: 'All swim in a celestial sphere'. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:026)

After centuries of scientific deduction it is proved that there is no fixed heaven; that which we see is an infinite space; these stars are hung like luminous lamps in this immeasurable atmosphere. There are neither eight nor nine nor ninety spheres and the stars are numberless. ADP.114

It is He Who hath created for you all things that are on earth; then He turned to the heaven and made them into seven firmaments (sab'a samawatin). Qur'an 2:29         It is He Who created the night and the day, and the sun and the moon: All (the celestial bodies) swim along, each in its rounded course (kullun fi falakin yasbahun). Qur'an 21:33; cf. Qur'an 36:40




...certain souls from among the ancients, through the power of detachment, did gain knowledge of certain mysteries of existence and obtained insight into the connections and relations that exist between beings. They became cognizant of certain hidden secrets that lie within the realities of things, and deduced certain future events from the relationships between existences. This cannot be denied - as mentioned in the Kitab-i-Iqan regarding the star that heralded the birth of His Holiness the Spirit [Jesus]. However, no reliance whatsoever can be placed upon the fanciful notions contained in the books of the astrologers. (Abdu'l-Baha, AB03340, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.159-161)
