



...those words that have streamed forth from the source of power and descended from the heaven of glory are innumerable and beyond the ordinary comprehension of man. KI#005 p005

It is obvious and manifest that the true meaning of the utterances of the Birds of Eternity is revealed to none except those that manifest the Eternal Being, and the melodies of the Nightingale of Holiness can reach no ear save that of the denizens of the everlasting realm.... "None knoweth the meaning thereof except God and them that are well-grounded in knowledge". KI#016 p017

And yet they bear witness to this well-known tradition: "Verily Our Word is abstruse, bewilderingly abstruse." KI#089 p082

No understanding can grasp the nature of His Revelation, nor can any knowledge comprehend the full measure of His Faith. KI#274 p243

It is difficult to comprehend even the words of a philosopher; how much more difficult it is to understand the Words of God.  The divine Words are not to be taken according to their outer sense.  They are symbolical and contain realities of spiritual meaning. PUP.459

Immeasurably exalted is the celestial (Lahuti) Melody above the strivings of human ear to hear or mind (istima' va 'aqul-i-nasut) to grasp its mystery! KI#180 p168




This servant will now share with thee a dewdrop out of the fathomless ocean of the truths treasured in these holy words, ... so that the overpowering majesty of the Word of God may not prevent them from attaining unto the ocean of His names and attributes... KI#027 p028

How strange that the Beloved is as visible as the sun and yet the heedless still hunt after tinsel and base metal. Yea, the intensity of His revelation hath veiled Him, and the fullness of His shining forth hath hidden Him. CDB#2.83 (was SV.39)

It hath been decreed by Us that the Word of God and all the potentialities thereof shall be manifested unto men in strict conformity with such conditions as have been foreordained by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. We have, moreover, ordained that its veil of concealment be none other except its own Self. GWB#033 p076

I applied my mind, therefore, to the Holy Scriptures, to see what manner of books they were. There I saw a thing not discovered by the wise, nor revealed to the little ones. Low is the entrance to it, but where it issues it is lofty and veiled in mysteries; and I was not such as could enter it, or bend my neck to its path. For when I first turned my mind to the Scriptures, I did not think what I am saying now; they seemed to me unworthy of comparison with the majesty of Ciceronian rhetoric. My pride shunned their modest style, and my eyes could not penetrate their inner secrets. It was the same Scripture which grows up with the little children; but I disdained to be a little child, and, swollen with my pride, fancied myself an adult. (St. Augustine, Confessions 3.5.9, Burton trans.)

Know thou, verily, there are many veils in which the Truth is enveloped: gloomy veils; then delicate and transparent veils; then the envelopment of Light, the sight of which dazzles the eyes, as doth the sun which is enveloped only in its own light and, as we look at it, the sight is blinded and eyes are dazzled. I beg of God to remove all the veilings and familiarize the light with all eyes, so that man may not be veiled from witnessing the Sun of Truth. TAB.071-072, Ruhi5.3.6
