



The religion of God consists of two parts: One is the very foundation and belongs to the spiritual realm; that is, it pertains to spiritual virtues and divine qualities. This part suffers neither change nor alteration: It is the Holy of Holies, which constitutes the essence of the religion of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad, the Bab, and Baha'u'llah, and which will endure throughout all the prophetic Dispensations. It will never be abrogated, for it consists in spiritual rather than material truth. It is faith, knowledge, certitude, justice, piety, high-mindedness, trustworthiness, love of God, and charity. It is mercy to the poor, assistance to the oppressed, generosity to the needy, and upliftment of the fallen. It is purity, detachment, humility, forbearance, patience, and constancy. These are divine qualities. These commandments will never be abrogated, but will remain in force and effect for all eternity.... The second part of the religion of God, which pertains to the material world and which concerns such things as fasting; prayer; worship; marriage; divorce; manumission; legal rulings; transactions; and penalties and punishments for murder, assault, theft, and injury, is changed and altered in every prophetic Dispensation and may be abrogated--for policies, transactions, punishments, and other laws are bound to change according to the exigencies of the time. SAQ#11.7-10 (was SAQ.047-048)

The first aspect of the revealed religion of God is that which concerns the ethical development and spiritual progress of mankind, the awakening of potential human susceptibilities and the descent of divine bestowals. These ordinances are changeless, essential, eternal. The second function of the divine religion deals with material conditions, the laws of human intercourse and social regulation. PUP.097

Each of the divine religions embodies two kinds of ordinances. The first is those which concern spiritual susceptibilities, the development of moral principles and the quickening of the conscience of man. These are essential or fundamental, one and the same in all religions, changeless and eternal.... The second kind of ordinances in the divine religions is those which relate to the material affairs of humankind. PUP.106

Each of the divine religions has two aspects. The first is essential. It concerns morality and development of the virtues of the human world. This aspect is common to all. It is fundamental; it is one; there is no difference, no variation in it.... The second aspect of the divine religions is nonessential. It concerns human needs and undergoes change in every cycle according to the exigency of the time. PUP.168

...each of the divine religions contains two kinds of laws or ordinances. One division concerns the world of morality and ethical institutions. These are the essential ordinances.... From the dawn of the Adamic cycle to the present day this fundamental law of God has continued changeless. This is the foundation of divine religion.  The second division comprises laws and institutions which provide for human needs and conditions according to exigencies of time and place. PUP.393

The divine religions embody two kinds of ordinances. First, there are those which constitute essential, or spiritual, teachings of the Word of God. These are faith in God, the acquirement of the virtues which characterize perfect manhood, praiseworthy moralities, the acquisition of the bestowals and bounties emanating from the divine effulgences -- in brief, the ordinances which concern the realm of morals and ethics. This is the fundamental aspect of the religion of God, and this is of the highest importance because knowledge of God is the fundamental requirement of man.... Second, there are laws and ordinances which are temporary and nonessential. These concern human transactions and relations. PUP.403-404

The teachings and ordinances of the divine religions are of two kinds. The first are spiritual and essential in nature.... The second kind of ordinances and teachings concern the outer conditions and transactions of the world of mankind. PUP.445

Religion has two main parts: (1) The Spiritual. (2) The Practical. The spiritual part never changes. All the Manifestations of God and His Prophets have taught the same truths and given the same spiritual law.... The practical part of religion deals with exterior forms and ceremonies... whilst the spiritual law never alters, the practical rules must change their application with the necessities of the time. PT#44:7-13 p142

Each divine revelation is divided into two parts.  The first part is essential and belongs to the eternal world.  It is the expression of the love of God, the knowledge of God.  This is one in all the religions, unchangeable and immutable.  The second part is not eternal; it deals with practical life, transactions and business and changes according to the evolution of man and the requirements of the time of each prophet. These laws are the reflex on this plane of the divine law and symbolize a medium for turning the thoughts of humanity toward justice. The mundane laws change as the horizon of man extends, till it encompass the universe. ADP.150

The religion of God has two aspects in this world. The spiritual (the real) and the formal (the outward). The formal side changes, as man changes from age to age. The spiritual side which is the Truth, never changes. AL.056

The first question was why the religion of the Prophets changes, and the way of the Manifestations varies like a chameleon. The Chief of the Israelites had His way, the Star of the Christians had His radiance, the Pride of the Arabs had His commandments, and the Sun of the supreme heaven had His religion and effulgence. The words, deeds, religion, way and commandments of each one were different. What is this hidden and concealed mystery? For the commandment of God should be of one way so that the bounty of heaven might be unveiled. Know that the world and all that is therein is transformed every moment and altered with every breath, for change, transformation and transition are essential requirements of the contingent world, while immutability and changelessness are characteristics of the realm of divine necessity. Hence, were the condition of the phenomenal world to remain constant, its essential requirements would likewise remain unchanged. Since change and transformation are ordained and established, its necessary relationships must also undergo alteration and transition. The contingent world is like unto the human body, which does not persist in one state but rather transitions from one condition to another, from one temperament to another; various symptoms appear and diverse ailments arise. Therefore, the wise physician and skilled doctor changes the remedy and alters the treatment. Observe with seeing eyes that in the mother's womb man subsists on blood, in the cradle he is nourished by milk, and when he grows and develops he partakes of every kind of food at the Lord's table of bounty. Childhood has its requirements, infancy its sustenance, maturity its demands, and youth its strength and vigor, while weakness and old age bring lassitude and decline. At each stage man has his requirements and for each ailment there is a cure. Likewise, summer has its demands, autumn its peculiarities, winter its cold, and spring its fragrant breezes and perfumed air. Universal wisdom requires that with changing conditions laws must change, and with varying ailments treatments must vary. The wise physician prescribes for the human body a remedy for every illness and a cure for every disease, and this change and transformation is the essence of wisdom, for the ultimate purpose is health and well-being. When he alters the treatment, the ignorant one says this proves the physician's ignorance - if the first medicine was appropriate, why change it, and if it was inappropriate, why prescribe it initially? But the wise patient acknowledges this and increases in certainty. Know thou that the divine law is of two kinds. One is concerned with the material world, and the other with the realm of the spirit and heart. The foundation of the spiritual law is changeless and immutable from the beginning of creation until the Promised Day and unto all eternity. It has been and will remain constant, and that is the virtues of the human world - the true, eternal, everlasting divine law and the eternal path and command of the Lord of Creation. That portion of the law which pertains to the physical realm changes according to the requirements of every age, every season, and every stage of development. In this Most Great Cycle and new Dispensation, most subsidiary physical laws are referred to the House of Justice, for this Cycle has a mighty duration and this Dispensation has boundless scope and eternal continuance. Since change and transformation are among the essential characteristics of the contingent world and an inherent necessity of this realm, the specific physical laws will be determined and arranged according to the exigencies of time and circumstance. However, the fundamental basis of the divine law has never changed and never will. For instance, praiseworthy characteristics, admirable virtues, the way of the pure ones, the deeds of the noble, and the conduct of the righteous are among the requirements of divine law, and these will never change. But physical laws will certainly change in every cycle and dispensation according to the requirements of the time. Consider with fairness: in this age and era when the world has become entirely new and the body of creation has attained incomparable delicacy and grace, is it possible for the laws and ordinances of former times to be fully implemented? No, by God! Furthermore, if in the manifestation of the Holy Ones a new law were not established, the world would not be renewed and the temple of creation would not be adorned in a fresh garment. AB00068 (Claude 3.5 Sonnet)




Know thou that in every age and cycle, all laws and ordinances have been changed according to the requirements of the times, except the law of love which, like a fountain, ever flows, and whose course never suffers change. (Baha'u'llah, in The Dawn, v5#12 p.1 [translated by Shoghi Effendi]) Earlier translation: Know thou, therefore, that in every age and dispensation all Divine Ordinances are changed and transformed according to the requirements of the time, except the law of love, which, like unto a fountain, always flows and is never overtaken by change. BNE.175 (Baha'u'llah), BSC#524

All religions teach that we must do good, that we must be generous, sincere, truthful, law-abiding, and faithful; all this is reasonable, and logically the only way in which humanity can progress. PT#44:5

The religion of God consists of two parts: One is the very foundation and belongs to the spiritual realm; that is, it pertains to spiritual virtues and divine qualities. This part suffers neither change nor alteration: It is the Holy of Holies, which constitutes the essence of the religion of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad, the Bab, and Baha'u'llah, and which will endure throughout all the prophetic Dispensations. It will never be abrogated, for it consists in spiritual rather than material truth. It is faith, knowledge, certitude, justice, piety, high-mindedness, trustworthiness, love of God, and charity. It is mercy to the poor, assistance to the oppressed, generosity to the needy, and upliftment of the fallen. It is purity, detachment, humility, forbearance, patience, and constancy. These are divine qualities. These commandments will never be abrogated, but will remain in force and effect for all eternity. These human virtues are renewed in every Dispensation... Those foundations of the religion of God, however, which are spiritual and consist in human virtues, are never subject to abrogation but are eternal and everlasting, and are renewed in every prophetic Dispensation. SAQ#11.2
