



It is true that in the divine utterances this statement is found: that Paradise is the station of recognizing the one true God and Hell is the state of being veiled from the Lord of Lords. The intent of this, however, is not that the spiritual world and the infinite outpourings of that realm do not exist. I beg forgiveness of God for this! Nay, rather, the meaning is that such states of knowledge and ignorance are like unto a tree, while bliss and torment in all the divine worlds are like unto its fruit. In every stage, the bounty and chastisement of God exist. In the world of the heart recognition is a gift and being veiled is a chastisement, for the basis of every gift and chastisement in all the worlds of God are these two things. AvK1.200, MKT1:338; PC00508




The souls of the infidels, however, shall -- and to this I bear witness -- when breathing their last be made aware of the good things that have escaped them, and shall bemoan their plight, and shall humble themselves before God. They shall continue doing so after the separation of their souls from their bodies. GWB#086 p170, Ruhi1.3.14

Whoso hath failed to recognize Him will have condemned himself to the misery of remoteness, a remoteness which is naught but utter nothingness and the essence of the nethermost fire. Such will be his fate, though to outward seeming he may occupy the earth's loftiest seats and be established upon its most exalted throne. GWB#029 p070-071, Ruhi1.3.5




Though the wonders of My mercy have encompassed all created things, both visible and invisible, and though the revelations of My grace and bounty have permeated every atom of the universe, yet the rod with which I can chastise the wicked is grievous, and the fierceness of Mine anger against them terrible. GWB#153 p325

Likewise apprehend thou the nature of hell-fire and be of them that truly believe. For every act performed there shall be a recompense according to the estimate of God, and unto this the very ordinances and prohibitions prescribed by the Almighty amply bear witness. For surely if deeds were not rewarded and yielded no fruit, then the Cause of God -- exalted is He -- would prove futile. Immeasurably high is He exalted above such blasphemies! However, unto them that are rid of all attachments a deed is, verily, its own reward. TB.189

Similarly, ultimate retributions and punishments consist in being deprived of the special bounties and unfailing bestowals of God and sinking to the lowest degrees of existence. And whoso is deprived of these favours, though he continue to exist after death, is accounted as dead in the eyes of the people of truth. SAQ#60.4 (was SAQ.225)
