



Adam is the cause of man's material life, but the reality of Christ, that is, the Word of God, is the cause of his spiritual life. It is a life-giving spirit, meaning that all the imperfections imposed by the material life of man are, through the instruction and guidance of that Essence of detachment, transmuted into human perfections. Therefore, Christ was a life-giving spirit and the cause of the spiritual life of all mankind. SAQ#29.7 (was SAQ.119-120)

And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth. John 1:14

Verily, Christ is Our Word which We communicated unto Mary... SWB.060, quoting Qur'an 4:169

...the Letter is a member of the Word, and this membership of the Word signifieth that the Letter is dependent for its value upon the Word, that is, it deriveth its grace from the Word; it has a spiritual kinship with the Word, and is accounted an integral part of the Word. The Apostles were even as Letters, and Christ was the essence of the Word Itself... SWAB#029 p060

...the spiritual nature is inherited from the reality of the Word of God, which is the spirituality of Christ. SAQ#29.3 (was SAQ.118)

But Christ, Who is the Word of God, sacrificed Himself. SAQ#29.10 (was SAQ.120)

...the all-encompassing Word of God--Christ--and His Most Great Name--Baha'u'llah--have appeared with a revelation beyond all conception. SAQ#37.11 (was SAQ.149-150)

...by "the Word" is not meant the body of Christ but the divine perfections that were manifested in Him. Thus Christ was like a spotless mirror which was turned towards the Sun of Truth, and the perfections of that Sun--that is, its light and heat--were plainly manifest in that mirror. If we look into the mirror, we see the sun and we say it is the sun. Therefore, the Word and the Holy Spirit, which consist in the perfections of God, are the divine appearance. This is the meaning of the verse in the Gospel which says: "the Word was with God, and the Word was God", for the divine perfections cannot be distinguished from the divine Essence. The perfections of Christ are called the Word since all created things are like individual letters, and individual letters do not convey a complete meaning, while the perfections of Christ are even as an entire word, for from a word a complete meaning can be inferred. As the reality of Christ was the manifestation of the divine perfections, it was even as a word. Why? Because it comprised a complete meaning, and that is why it has been called the Word. SAQ#54.5 (was SAQ.206)

Now the lights of the divine bounties of the fire of the love of God have shone forth in the words and letters.  That is, the words and letters are similar to a mirror, and the Sun of Truth and the Rays of Significances have become manifest and shone forth in these words and letters.  Seek thou from God that thy heart may be as one of these letters, until the Eternal Bounty may cast a ray of splendor therein. TAB.515

...realize that all the created things are as letters and words... TAB.537

By the 'word' we mean that creation with its infinite forms is like unto letters and the individual members of humanity are likewise like unto letters.  A letter individually has no meaning, no independent significance, but the station of Christ is the station of the word. ADP.148

The reason we call Christ the Word, is because we human beings, compared to Him, are like letters, and He as a word. A word has a complete meaning, whereas a letter has not. (From a talk of 'Abdu'l-Baha, in The Sufi Quarterly (1928) vol. 3, p. 227)

The letters (alphabet) and the numbers (arithmetic) have a mystic correspondence with transcendent reality. The letters and numbers are the elements (stoicheia) of the spiritual and the material worlds. As words these elements are the source of all things intellectual, as letters they represent the source of matter. The plurality (27 to 28) of the letters can be traced back to the point (nuqtih), in the case of the numbers, to the one. The point of the world of letters and the one of the world of numbers thus become a universal principle which conditions, penetrates and limits the world of appearances. Every prophet, from Adam to Baha'u'llah, has shown Himself to be the Logos, the Demiurge, the Manifestation, the Emanation of the All-Highest Godhead; the Prophet proves His God-given creative power by producing a book, the letters and numerical values of which represent a counterplay (reflection) of transcendent reality. (Fallscheer notes, pp. 19-20; 7 Feb. 1910)

The Apostles were even as Letters, and Christ was the essence of the Word Itself.... the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are continually descending, and the power of the Word will exert such an influence that the letter shall become the mirror in which the splendid Sun - the Word itself - will be reflected.... SWAB#029 p060

Thou hast written of a verse in the Gospels, asking if at the time of Christ all souls did hear His call. Know that faith is of two kinds. The first is objective faith that is expressed by the outer man, obedience of the limbs and senses. The other faith is subjective, and unconscious obedience to the will of God. There is no doubt that, in the day of a Manifestation such as Christ, all contingent beings possessed subjective faith and had unconscious obedience to His Holiness Christ. For all parts of the creational world are of one whole. Christ the Manifestor reflecting the divine Sun represented the whole. All the parts are subordinate and obedient to the whole. The contingent beings are the branches of the tree of life while the Messenger of God is the root of that tree. The branches, leaves and fruit are dependent for their existence upon the root of the tree of life. This condition of unconscious obedience constitutes subjective faith. But the discerning faith that consists of true knowledge of God and the comprehension of divine words, of such faith there is very little in any age. That is why His Holiness Christ said to His followers, "Many are called but few are chosen." BWF.364 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The reason for this [rejection] was that they said: The Revelation of Christ, according to the clear text of the Torah, will be attested by certain signs, and so long as these signs have not appeared, whoso layeth claim to be a Messiah is an impostor.... But as they did not understand the meaning of these signs, they crucified the Word of God. SWAB#020 p044-045

The body is the word. The spirit is its meaning. The word passes. The meaning remains. SW v13#04 p.090

...the reality of Christ, Who is the Word of God, undoubtedly precedes all created things in essence, in attributes, and in distinction. SAQ#28.4 (was SAQ.119)
