



As for the statement made by Shoghi Effendi in his letter of 21 Mar. 1932, the well-established principles of the Faith concerning the relationship of the Baha'i institutions to those of the country in which the Baha'is reside make it unthinkable that they would ever purpose to violate a country's constitution or so to meddle in its political machinery as to attempt to take over the powers of government. This is an integral element of the Baha'i principle of abstention from involvement in politics. However, this does not by any means imply that the country itself may not, by constitutional means, decide to adopt Baha'i laws and practices and modify its constitution or method of government accordingly. M86-01 201.7 (27 Apr. 1995 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

Let them proclaim that in whatever country they reside, and however advanced their institutions, or profound their desire to enforce the laws, and apply the principles, enunciated by Baha'u'llah, they will, unhesitatingly, subordinate the operation of such laws and the application of such principles to the requirements and legal enactments of their respective governments. Theirs is not the purpose, while endeavoring to conduct and perfect the administrative affairs of their Faith, to violate, under any circumstances, the provisions of their country's constitution, much less to allow the machinery of their administration to supersede the government of their respective countries. WOB.065-66

In the first place these matters relate to the temporal and material apparatus of civilization, the implements of science, the adjuncts of progress in the professions and the arts, and the orderly conduct of government. They have nothing whatever to do with the problems of the spirit and the complex realities of religious doctrine. SDC.025-026

He has ordained and established the House of Justice, which is endowed with a political as well as a religious function, the consummate union and blending of church and state. This institution is under the protecting power of Baha'u'llah Himself. A universal, or international, House of Justice shall also be organized. Its rulings shall be in accordance with the commands and teachings of Baha'u'llah, and that which the Universal House of Justice ordains shall be obeyed by all mankind. This international House of Justice shall be appointed and organized from the Houses of Justice of the whole world, and all the world shall come under its administration. PUP.455

Question: The Baha'i system is a political institution?     Answer: Yes but we do not stress this at present. (Pilgrim notes of Emeric Sala, Dec. 1937)

Such a stage of maturity in the process of human government must, for all time, if we would faithfully recognize the tremendous claim advanced by Baha'u'llah, remain identified with the Revelation of which He was the Bearer. WOB.164

Regarding the question raised in your letter, Shoghi Effendi believes that for the present the Movement, whether in the East or the West, should be dissociated entirely from politics. This was the explicit injunction of 'Abdu'l-Baha... Eventually, however, as you have rightly conceived it, the Movement will, as soon as it is fully developed and recognized, embrace both religious and political issues. In fact Baha'u'llah clearly states that affairs of state as well as religious questions are to be referred to the House of Justice into which the Assemblies of the Baha'is will eventually evolve. (30 Nov. 1930 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, quoted here)

The Baha'is will be called upon to assume the reins of government when they will come to constitute the majority of the population in a given country, and even then their participation in political affairs is bound to be limited in scope unless they obtain a similar majority in some other countries as well. (19 Nov. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in a letter dated 27 Apr. 1995 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, quoted here)

The Baha'is must remain non-partisan in all political affairs. In the distant future, however, when the majority of a country have become Baha'is then it will lead to the establishment of a Baha'i State. (19 Apr. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in a letter dated 27 Apr. 1995 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, quoted here)

The revealed law is like the spirit of life, and civil government is like the power of salvation. The revealed law is like the shining sun, and the civil government is like April clouds. These two radiant stars are like two points in a constellation above the horizon of the contingent world that shine down on the people of the world. The one illuminates the realm of spirit, and the other renders the arena of the world a rose garden. One causes the sea of conscience to throw up pearls, the other makes the earth into a heavenly paradise. One renders a heap of dirt the envy of the heavens, the other makes the mansion of darkness into the delight of the world of lights.... The point is this, that these two most great signs are like milk and honey, like two helping spirits in the ether, which aid one another. Thus, disregard for the one is a betrayal of the other, and slighting obedience to one is rebellion against the other. (Abdu'l-Baha, Siyasiyyih - Treatise on Politics, provisional translation)

"I would warn them [the Bahais] to be on their guard lest the impression be given to the outside world that the Baha'is are political in their aims and pursuits or interfere in matters that pertain to the political activities of their respective governments. ..." (13 Nov. 1931 to an individual believer, cited in The Compilation of Compilations vol II, p. 420)

"The one true God, ... hath ever regarded, and will continue to regard, the hearts of men as His own, His exclusive possession. All else, whether pertaining to land or sea, whether riches or glory, He hath bequeathed unto the Kings and rulers of the earth. ... The instruments which are essential to the immediate protection, the security and assurance of the human race have been entrusted to the hands, and lie in the grasp, of the governors of human society." (GWB.206-207) "The one true God, ... hath bestowed the government of the earth upon the kings. .. That which He hath reserved for Himself are the cities of men's hearts" (GWB.241) "your Lord hath committed the world and the cities thereof to the care of the kings of the earth, and made them the emblems of His own power, by virtue of the sovereignty He hath chosen to bestow upon them. He hath refused to reserve for Himself any share whatever of this world's dominion. (GWB.303)

The signature of that meeting should be the Spiritual Gathering (House of Spirituality) and the wisdom therein is that hereafter the government should not infer from the term "House of Justice" that a court is signified, that it is connected with political affairs, or that at any time it will interfere with governmental affairs. ... (Tablets of Abdu'l-Baha Abbas vol. 1, page 5). ".. the Cause of God is withdrawn entirely from political affairs; the political realm pertains only to the Rulers of those matters: " (National Bahai Archives (US), unpublished Tablets of Abdu'l-Baha, printed in Baha'i World Faith, 407) "My intention, with these words, is not that religion has any business in politics. Religion has no jurisdiction or involvement in political matters, for religion is related to spirits and to ecstasy, while politics relates to the body. Therefore the leaders of religions should not be involved in political matters, but should busy themselves with rectifying the morals of the community. ... They teach the [religious] sciences, but they have no involvement with political matters, for all time. Baha'u'llah has commanded this. In the Gospels it is said, "Render to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's." (Khatabat-e Abdu'l-Baha 182. My translation) "... this sect have no worldly object nor any role in political matters ... They play absolutely no role in political questions, ... (Abdu'l-Baha, A Traveler's Narrative, 86-88) "The ninth [teaching of Baha'u'llah]: religion is separated from politics: religion does not enter into political matters, in fact, it is linked with the hearts, not with the world of bodies. The leaders of religion should devote themselves to teaching and training the souls and propagating good morals, and they should not enter into political matters." (Abdu'l-Baha, talk recorded in Persian, see http://reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/KA1/ka1-35.html ) "The Constitutional Government, according to the irrefutable text of the Religion of God, is the cause of the glory and prosperity of the nation and the civilization and freedom of the people." (Tablets of Abdu'l-Baha, 492) "...the World Council, to be designated as the Universal House of Justice, ... must coordinate and direct the affairs of the Baha'i community," (Shoghi Effendi, Summary Statement - 1947, to the Special UN Committee on Palestine)
