



It is the concern of the True One to reveal, and the concern of men to spread what hath been revealed. He will, verily, promulgate His Cause by the hands of His scattering and well-favoured angels. Spiritual souls will assuredly emerge from behind the veil of Divine protection who will gather together the tokens and Verses of God and put them into the most excellent order. This is His sure and irrevocable decree. (From a Tablet of Baha'u'llah, LG#327)

If they look to the revealed verses, these have been sent down beyond reckoning - such that now in Adrianople alone the equivalent of a hundred thousand verses have been revealed, let alone what was revealed in Iraq and along the way. And how many verses and how many expressions of knowledge and interpretation and other matters of every kind did I [Mirza Aqa Jan], by His decisive command, cast into the river in Baghdad! He would say: "Destroy these, that perchance those who are veiled may become assured of their Lord's verses." That Most Great Beauty hath never regarded such matters as important. Thus, when it was mentioned that these verses could be assembled to fill several volumes, He did not grant permission, saying that God Himself is sanctified above such things - rather this is the concern of the servants. A people will assuredly appear who will eagerly seek out and preserve every single letter thereof, and arrange it into the most perfect order. Blessed be the order of Baha'u'llah, which is the order of His utterance -- although to act upon it hath been and shall be reserved to His loved ones. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation) all of the verses revealed by God in His former and latter Revelations, and in the station of Divine Sanctity, should be written in accordance with their own specific categories [hayakil-i-tashkhis] according to the "Order of Baha'" -- exalted be His glory and magnified be His Order. And that incomparable Order, first and foremost, is that the verses of God should be arranged according to their themes [shu'un]: divine verses, prayers, and so forth, each with respect to their theme. For example, that which was revealed on the theme of the love of God and the love of the people amongst each other should all be placed under the category of love; that which was revealed concerning detachment under the category of detachment; concerning righteousness under the category of righteousness; concerning truthfulness under the category of truthfulness; and likewise concerning trustworthiness and piety. And likewise also concerning every theme related to obscuring veils, and concerning belief in Him Whom God shall make manifest and all that was revealed in the Bayan regarding the same. And likewise too concerning the humility, self-effacement, and non-existence of the [Primal] Point at the mention of Him Whom God shall make manifest. And likewise concerning character and conduct. And likewise concerning Divinity, Lordship, beauty, majesty and grandeur in the former and latter Revelations and in the robe of Divine Sanctity. Consider, in like manner, in each passage of every Tablet and every Surih that which is the spirit of that Tablet and the centre of attraction of that book, with regard to every specific matter... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation)
