



Nature is that condition or reality which outwardly is the source of the life and death, or, in other words, of the composition and decomposition, of all things. SAQ#1.1 (was SAQ.003)




As for the material station, it has an origin in time, for it is composed of the elements, and every composition must ultimately be decomposed. It is indeed impossible for composition not to be followed by disintegration. SAQ#38.2 (was SAQ.151)

The corporeal station is human in nature and is subject to disintegration, for it is an elemental composition and that which is composed of elements must of necessity be decomposed and dispersed. SAQ#39.2 (was SAQ.154)

...every composition, whether universal or particular, must of necessity be decomposed. At most, some disintegrate quickly and others slowly, but it is impossible for something that is composed not to ultimately decompose. SAQ#47.3 (was SAQ.181)

When this attraction or atomic affinity is destroyed, the power of life ceases to manifest; death and nonexistence result.  It is so, likewise, in the spiritual world. PUP.004

Every composition is necessarily subject to destruction or disintegration. PUP.415

The whole physical creation is perishable. These material bodies are composed of atoms; when these atoms begin to separate decomposition sets in, then comes what we call death. This composition of atoms, which constitutes the body or mortal element of any created being, is temporary. PT#29:12 p090

But a contingent reality which is perpetuated by the fullness of existence, will then suffer no corruption, and will thus become a divine reality, for the accidental reality is only distinguished from the existent reality by its subjection to corruption. For transformation is an essential necessity to every contingent reality, and this is what the mature wisdom has deemed advisable. SW v07#19 p.190

In this endless Universe everything has a beginning and an end. Some things end quickly and some last a long time, but it is sure that they will end at some time. It is impossible that a composed thing should not be decomposed. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 10 Oct. 1904, p. 56)

Some define existence as the expression of reality or being and nonexistence as nonbeing, imagining that death is annihilation. This is a mistaken idea, for total annihilation is an impossibility. At most, composition is ever subject to decomposition or disintegration - that is to say, existence implies the grouping of material elements in a form or body, and nonexistence is simply the decomposing of these groupings. This is the law of creation in its endless forms and infinite variety of expression.  PUP.087

Verily the body is composed of physical elements, and every composite must needs be decomposed. The spirit, however, is a single essence, fine and delicate, incorporeal, everlasting, and of God. SWAB#143 p167

If there should not be decomposition, composition would not be.... For example, if you wish the dust and stone and wood to be mixed perfectly with each other, it is impossible unless each be decomposed into its salts; when we have dissolved them then we can compose them. (Pilgrim notes of Arthur Agnew, Table Talks at Acca, by Abdul-Baha Abbas, 1907, p. 10)




This composition and arrangement arose, through the wisdom of God and His ancient might, from one natural order. Thus, as this composition and combination has been produced according to a natural order, with perfect soundness, following a consummate wisdom, and subject to a universal law, it is clear that it is a divine creation and not an accidental composition and arrangement. SAQ#47.5 (was SAQ.181)

...all phenomena are realized through the divine bounty, and the explanation of true pantheistic statement and principle is that the phenomena of the universe find realization through the one power animating and dominating all things, and all things are but manifestations of its energy and bounty. PUP.286

...consider the phenomenon of composition and decomposition, of existence and non-existence. Every created thing in the contingent world is made up of many and varied atoms, and its existence is dependent on the composition of these. In other words, through the divine creative power a conjunction of simple elements taketh place so that from this composition a distinct organism is produced. The existence of all things is based upon this principle. But when the order is deranged, decomposition is produced and disintegration setteth in, then that thing ceaseth to exist. That is, the annihilation of all things is caused by decomposition and disintegration. Therefore attraction and composition between the various elements is the means of life, and discord, decomposition and division produce death. SWAB#225 p289-290

...composition is effected through a superior will...  the existence of phenomena is effected through the eternal Will, the Will of the Living, Eternal and Self-Subsistent... PUP.424




...from every natural composition a living thing comes into existence, but from a chance composition no living thing will appear. So, for example, if man, with all his astuteness and intelligence, were to gather together and combine certain elements, a living being will not be brought into existence as it would not be according to the natural order. SAQ#47.5 (was SAQ.181)

Now, formation is of three kinds and of three kinds only:  accidental, necessary and voluntary.  The coming together of the various constituent elements of beings cannot be accidental, for unto every effect there must be a cause.  It cannot be compulsory, for then the formation must be an inherent property of the constituent parts and the inherent property of a thing can in no wise be dissociated from it.... The third formation remaineth and that is the voluntary one, that is, an unseen force described as the Ancient Power, causeth these elements to come together, every formation giving rise to a distinct being. Forel.16-17

...composition must needs be of three kinds: One form of composition is termed philosophically the accidental, another the involuntary, and a third the voluntary. As to the first, or accidental, composition... This can be proven to be false; for composition is an effect, and philosophically no effect is conceivable without causation.... As to the second form of composition - involuntary: This means that each element has within itself as an inherent property the power of composition.... this theory is untrue, inasmuch as we observe that after each composition there is a process of decomposition which forever ends it.... Then what have we left as a form of composition? It is the voluntary form of composition, which means that composition is effected through a superior will, that there is will expressed in this motive or action. It is thus proved that the existence of phenomena is effected through the eternal Will, the Will of the Living, Eternal and Self-subsistent, and this is a rational proof concerning composition whereof there is no doubt or uncertainty.  PUP.423-424

Those informed with divine philosophy answer that there are three theories of composition: first, accidental composition; second, involuntary composition; third, voluntary composition.... If we declare that construction is accidental, this is logically a false theory, because then we have to believe in an effect without a cause.... The second, involuntary composition, means that each element has within it an innate function of this power of composition.... inasmuch as we observe that there is a process of decomposition, we conclude that the constituent elements of life enter neither involuntarily nor accidentally, but voluntarily into composition - and this means that the infinite forms of organisms are composed through the superior will... This is a rational proof that the will of the Creator is effected through the process of composition. ADP.105-106




...from every natural composition a living thing comes into existence, but from a chance composition no living thing will appear. So, for example, if man, with all his astuteness and intelligence, were to gather together and combine certain elements, a living being will not be brought into existence as it would not be according to the natural order. This is the answer to the implicit question that might arise, that since these beings come into existence through the composition and combination of these elements, then can we not also gather together and combine the very same elements and thus create a living thing? This idea is mistaken; for the original composition is a divine composition, and the combination is produced by God according to the natural order, and it is for this reason that a living being is created from this composition and an existence is realized. But a composition made by man produces nothing because man cannot create life. SAQ#47.5 (was SAQ.181-182)




If the atoms which compose the kingdom of the minerals were without affinity for each other, the earth would never have been formed, the universe could not have been created.  Because they have affinity for each other, the power of life is able to manifest itself, and the organisms of the phenomenal world become possible. PUP.004

...whenever individual elements combine in accordance with the universal divine order, a certain being comes into the world of existence. That is, when certain elements are combined, a vegetable existence is produced; when others are combined, an animal existence is produced; when yet others combine, other things come into being. In each case, the existence of things is a consequence of their realities. SAQ#82.11 (was SAQ.292)

...all created things are the result of composition.  Material elements have grouped together in infinite variety and endless forms.  Each organism is a compound; each object is an expression of elemental affinity. PUP.056

All created beings are dependent upon peace and coordination, for every contingent and phenomenal being is a composition of distinct elements. PUP.098

All created things are expressions of the affinity and cohesion of elementary substances, and nonexistence is the absence of their attraction and agreement. PUP.123

Every existent phenomenon is composed of elements and cellular particles. This is scientifically true and correct.  If attraction did not exist between the elements and among the cellular particles, the composition of that phenomenon would never have been possible. PUP.268

Science teaches us that all forms of creation are the result of composition; for example, certain single atoms are brought together through the inherent law of affinity and the result is the human being... Many atoms go into the composition of a piece of stone which through purification may reach to the station of a mirror. ADP.104




Throughout all creation, in all the kingdoms, this law is written:  that love and affinity are the cause of life, and discord and separation are the cause of death. PUP.207

The elements and lower organisms are synchronized in the great plan of life.... From the fellowship and commingling of the elemental atoms life results.  In their harmony and blending there is ever newness of existence.  It is radiance, completeness; it is consummation; it is life itself.... PUP.350

...consider the phenomenon of composition and decomposition, of existence and non-existence. Every created thing in the contingent world is made up of many and varied atoms, and its existence is dependent on the composition of these. In other words, through the divine creative power a conjunction of simple elements taketh place so that from this composition a distinct organism is produced. The existence of all things is based upon this principle. But when the order is deranged, decomposition is produced and disintegration setteth in, then that thing ceaseth to exist. That is, the annihilation of all things is caused by decomposition and disintegration. Therefore attraction and composition between the various elements is the means of life, and discord, decomposition and division produce death. SWAB#225 p289-290

When this attraction or atomic affinity is destroyed, the power of life ceases to manifest; death and nonexistence result.  It is so, likewise, in the spiritual world. PUP.004

Look about thee at the world: here unity, mutual attraction, gathering together, engender life, but disunity and inharmony spell death. When thou dost consider all phenomena, thou wilt see that every created thing hath come into being through the mingling of many elements, and once this collectivity of elements is dissolved, and this harmony of components is dissevered, the life form is wiped out. SWAB#015 p031

As for created things, their life consists in composition, and their death in decomposition. SAQ#53.7 (was SAQ.203)

Life is, therefore, the product of composition; and death signifies decomposition. PUP.056

So to speak, when the atom entered into the composition of the tree, it died to the mineral kingdom, and when consumed by the animal, it died to the vegetable kingdom, and so on until its transference or transmutation into the kingdom of man; but throughout its traversing it was subject to transformation and not annihilation.  Death, therefore, is applicable to a change or transference from one degree or condition to another. PUP.088

...life is the expression of composition, and mortality, or death, is equivalent to decomposition. PUP.306

...life consists in the combination of elements and death of their dissolution or transference from one state to another. (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 195)




When this attraction or atomic affinity is destroyed, the power of life ceases to manifest; death and nonexistence result.  It is so, likewise, in the spiritual world. PUP.004

...the existence of beings is conditioned upon the coming together of various elements and their non-existence upon the decomposition of their constituent elements. Forel.16

Although material life has existence, yet in the eyes of holy and spiritually minded souls it is utter non-existence and death. Thus man exists and so does this stone, but what a difference between the existence of man and that of the stone! Although the stone exists, in relation to the existence of man it is non-existent.... The stone and the man both exist, but in relation to man the stone has no existence or being. For when man dies and his body is disintegrated and destroyed, it becomes like the stone, the earth, and the mineral. It is therefore clear that even though the mineral exists, it is non-existent in relation to man. SAQ#67.3-9 (was SAQ.241)

...the existence of the mineral is non-existence compared to that of man--since man's body becomes mineral when he physically dies--but the mineral indeed exists within the mineral realm. It is therefore clear that dust is non-existent or has an illusory existence compared to that of man, but that within the mineral realm it exists. SAQ#79.2 (was SAQ.278)

Existence is the expression and outcome of composition and combination. Nonexistence is the expression and outcome of division and disintegration. PUP.056

Some define existence as the expression of reality or being and nonexistence as nonbeing, imagining that death is annihilation. This is a mistaken idea, for total annihilation is an impossibility. At most, composition is ever subject to decomposition or disintegration - that is to say, existence implies the grouping of material elements in a form or body, and nonexistence is simply the decomposing of these groupings. This is the law of creation in its endless forms and infinite variety of expression.  PUP.087

Consider how clearly it is shown in creation that the cause of existence is unity and cohesion and the cause of nonexistence is separation and dissension.... commingling of the atoms brings forth a reality, while dispersion or dissemination of them is equivalent to nonexistence. PUP.207

Existence in the various planes, or kingdoms, implies composition; and nonexistence, or death, is decomposition. PUP.415

...it is a philosophical principle that the existence of phenomena implies composition and that mortality, or nonexistence, is equivalent to decomposition. PUP.423

That the existence of phenomena depends upon composition, and mortality upon decomposition, is a scientific fact... ADP.104

A mineral compared to us may be said to be non-existent, but in its own sphere it lives.  When we die our bodies return to the mineral and vegetable world. This example shows the inter-relationship of the different kingdoms which is erroneously called annihilation. ADP.107-108
