



Speak, therefore; speak out with great courage at every meeting. When thou art about to begin thine address, turn first to Baha'u'llah, and ask for the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, then open thy lips and say whatever is suggested to thy heart; this, however, with the utmost courage, dignity and conviction. SWAB#216 p269, Ruhi2.2.7, Ruhi6.2.5

The Baha'i teacher must be all confidence. Therein lies his strength and the secret of his success. Though single-handed, and no matter how great the apathy of the people around you may be, you should have faith that the hosts of the Kingdom are on your side, and that through their help you are bound to overcome the forces of darkness that are facing the Cause of God. Persevere, be happy and confident, therefore. COC#1707, COC#1948, Ruhi2.2.7, Ruhi6.2.5 (30 Jun. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Lift up your hearts above the present and look with eyes of faith into the future! Today the seed is sown, the grain falls upon the earth, but behold the day will come when it shall rise a glorious tree and the branches thereof shall be laden with fruit. Rejoice and be glad that this day has dawned, try to realize its power, for it is indeed wonderful! God has crowned you with honour and in your hearts has He set a radiant star; verily the light thereof shall brighten the whole world! PT#21:6 p068, Ruhi6.2.4

You should, therefore, try all your best to carry aflame within you the torch of faith, for through it you will surely find guidance, strength and eventual success. COC#1940, Ruhi6.2.4 (1 Sep. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is in intellectual circles such as this that the believers should endeavour to teach, confident that no matter how limited their capacity may be, yet their efforts are continually guided and reinforced from on High. This spirit of confident hope, of cheerful courage, and of undaunted enthusiasm in itself, irrespective of any tangible results which it may procure, can alone ensure the ultimate success of our teaching efforts. COC#1945 (31 Oct. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Reliance on God is indeed the strongest and safest weapon which the Baha'i teacher can carry. For by its means no earthly power can remain unconquered, and no obstacle become insuperable. COC#1708 (27 Mar. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
