



You have asked how we can harmonize scientific theories (philosophical ideas -- afkar-i-filaysufi) with the ideas of religion. Know that this material world is the mirror of the Kingdom, and each of these worlds is in complete correspondence with the other. The correct theories of this world which are the result of sound scientific [philosophical] thinking are in agreement with the divine verses without the slightest divergence between them, for the truth of all things is laid away in the treasuries of the Kingdom. When that truth is manifested in the material world, the archetypes and realities of beings attain realization. If a scientific theory [philosophical opinion -- ara'-i-falsafiyyih] does not correspond with the divine verses, it is certain that it is the essence of error. (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha in MKT3:172-173, provisional translation, as quoted in Brown (2001), xvi) Alternative translation 1: This nether world is a mirror the Kingdom, and each one is in full conformity with the other. Sound and sensible ideas arising from pure and genuine philosophies are completely consistent with the heavenly Writings. There is no difference whatsoever between the two, inasmuch as the inner essences of all things exist in the treasuries of the Kingdom. Once these inner essences are revealed in the physical world, they assume actual existence ... Should any philosophical views not conform to the heavenly Writings, it is certain that they are naught but error. (Malakut-i-Vujud, p. 181, AB00457) Alternative translation 2: Know thou that this nether world is the mirror of the Kingdom, and the former is exactly the counterpart of the latter. The sound opinions of the world, which are the results of philosophical right thinking, correspond to the Traces of the Kingdom, and there does not exist any difference whatever between them. (anon. pilgrim notes, May 1911, PN 1911_page_0008.jpg)

The limited is ever in need of the unlimited. The material must be correlated with the spiritual. The material may be likened to the body, but divine virtues are the breathings of the Holy Spirit itself. PUP.205

As this physical frame is the throne of the inner temple, whatever occurs to the former is felt by the latter... SWB.095

...in the same way that the parts, members, and organs of the human body are interconnected, and that they mutually assist, reinforce, and influence each other, so too are the parts and members of this endless universe connected with, and spiritually and materially influenced by, one another.... For those who deny the spiritual influence of material things, we mention this brief example: Beautiful sounds, wondrous tones, and harmonious melodies are accidents which affect the air; for sound consists in vibrations of the air.... Observe, then, what a connection exists between the spirit of man and the vibrations of the air, that the latter can transport him to another state and so overwhelm him as to entirely deprive him of patience and composure. SAQ#69.3-4 (was SAQ.245-246)

There is no doubt that the forces of the higher worlds interplay with the forces of this plane. PT#57:4 p179

This material world has an outward appearance, as it has also an inner reality. All created things are interlinked in a chain leading to spirituality and ultimately ending in abstract realities. (Mahmud's Diary, 28 Apr. 1912, p. 66)

...the more the physical body improves the more it is capable of making spiritual progress. (Mahmud's Diary, 25 Jun. 1912, p. 145)

In the body of a man, which is the true divine example or parallel, the spirit, when in ideal control of all the lesser parts of the organism, finds the utmost harmony throughout the whole body -- each part is in perfect reciprocity with the other parts. The commands and impulses of the spirit are obeyed by the body and the body in turn in its actions and functions identifies and determines the expression the spiritual impulses shall take. This is divine unity -- and this law, being universal and found in every created object in the universe, has full application to the universal Baha'i organism made up of believers everywhere, which has been established by the Manifestation of God. PBA.002, GTT.110, "European Teaching Committee Manual (1948)"

It was already mentioned that the parts and members of the human body mutually influence one another. For instance, the eye sees and the heart is affected. The ear hears and the spirit is influenced. The heart finds peace, the thoughts expand, and all the members of the body experience a state of well-being. What a connection and relationship this is! And if such relationships, such spiritual influences and effects, are found among the various members of the body of man, which is only one particular being among many, then there must assuredly exist both spiritual and material relationships among the countless universal beings. And although our present methods and sciences cannot detect these relationships among the universal beings, their existence is nonetheless clear and indisputable. SAQ#69.5

Man in this age has learned the weight of the sun, the path of a star, the movement of an eclipse--the advance step now is to learn the expansion of the inflexible law of matter into the subtler kingdom of spirit, which contains a finer gravitation which holds the balance of power from age to age unbroken. Blessed is that soul who knows that against all appearances, the nature of things works for truth and right forever.... The emancipated soul sees with the eyes of perfect faith because it knows what vast provisions are made to enable it to gain the victory over every difficulty and trial. Yet man must ever remember the earth plane is a workshop, not an art gallery for the exhibits of powers. This is not the plane of perfection, but earth is the crucible for refining and moulding character. (Words of Abdu'l-Baha to Marie Watson in 1921, SW v16#05, ABU0064)




The effects... for instance by prayers ... all these are to be attributed, not to each individual heavenly body, but to the nature of what is done. Plotinus, Enn.IV.4.38

Intone, O My servant, the verses of God that have been received by thee, as intoned by them who have drawn nigh unto Him, that the sweetness of thy melody may kindle thine own soul, and attract the hearts of all men. Whoso reciteth, in the privacy of his chamber, the verses revealed by God, the scattering angels of the Almighty shall scatter abroad the fragrance of the words uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the heart of every righteous man to throb. Though he may, at first, remain unaware of its effect, yet the virtue of the grace vouchsafed unto him must needs sooner or later exercise its influence upon his soul. GWB#136 p295, Ruhi1.2.4, Ruhi3a.L5 (1st sentence)




We cannot segregate the human heart from the environment outside us and say that once one of these is reformed everything will be improved. Man is organic in the world. His inner life moulds the environment and is itself deeply affected by it. The one acts upon the other and every abiding change in the life of man is the result of these mutual reactions. COC vol1 p84, Ruhi5.1.15 (17 Feb. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




In the world of existence physical things have a connection with spiritual realities. ...melodies, though they are material, are connected with the spiritual, therefore, they produce a great effect. A certain kind of melody makes the spirit happy, another kind makes it sad, another excites it to action.... Whatever is in the heart of man, melody moves and awakens.... For instance: the music used in war awakens the desire for bloodshed. The meaning is that melody causes whatever feeling is in the heart to increase. COC#1422 (Pilgrim notes of Mary Lucas, 1905)

It is even as a voice wondrously sweet, or a melody played: although sounds are but vibrations in the air which affect the ear's auditory nerve, and these vibrations are but chance phenomena carried along through the air, even so, see how they move the heart. A wondrous melody is wings for the spirit, and maketh the soul to tremble for joy. SWAB#129 p147
