



Likewise, throughout the world of existence the smallest created thing attests to the existence of a creator. For instance, this piece of bread attests that it has a maker. The change in the outward form of the smallest thing proves the existence of a creator: Then how could this vast, boundless universe have created itself and come to exist solely through the mutual interaction of the elements? SAQ#2.6-2.7 (was SAQ.006)

...the wise and reflecting soul will know of a certainty that this infinite universe with all its grandeur and perfect order could not have come to exist by itself. Forel.19




As regards thine assertions about the beginning of creation, this is a matter on which conceptions vary by reason of the divergences in men's thoughts and opinions. Wert thou to assert that it hath ever existed and shall continue to exist, it would be true; or wert thou to affirm the same concept as is mentioned in the sacred Scriptures, no doubt would there be about it, for it hath been revealed by God, the Lord of the worlds. TB.140

Baha'u'llah teaches: the world is only eternal insofar as it, the effect, was still resting uncreated in the cause of all being - in God, i.e. the world was as long as it rested uncreated in God - as a part of God - eternal and appeared in time when the eternal God emanated it. The prophet and founder of religion, Moses, says: God, the Creator, was from eternity, and He desired to create the world by self-emanation so that He could be recognized by the creature. Out of His breath (logos) He unfolded the world. O my daughters, would you like to recognize this in a philosophical manner, it can be expressed briefly as follows: The philosopher and worldly-wise emphasize the logical preexistence of the causal relationship of God, the Creator, to the world, the creation. Baha'u'llah ... attributes the preexistence in time of God before the world to the logical preexistence of the causal relationship of God to the world; or in other words: Baha'u'llah ties the idea of emanation of the philosophers and learned to the idea of creation of the prophets and founders of religion. He reconciles and unites science and faith, recognition and will. (From a talk entitled Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 4)

The world of existence is contingent, inasmuch as it is preceded by a cause, while essential preexistence hath ever been, and shall remain, confined to God, magnified be His glory. This statement is being made lest one be inclined to conclude from the earlier assertion, namely that creation hath no beginning and no end, that it is preexistent. True and essential preexistence is exclusively reserved to God, while the preexistence of the world is secondary and relative. TU.2#49




This entire compound he divided lengthwise into two parts which he joined to one another at the center like the letter X, and bent them into a circular form, connecting them with themselves and each other at the point opposite to their original meeting-point, and, comprehending them in a uniform revolution upon the same axis, he made the one the outer and the other the inner circle.... (Plato, Timaeus, Jowett translation, 36b-c)         cf. Cornford translation: "This whole fabric, then, he split lengthwise into two halves; and making the two cross one another at their centers in the form of the letter X, he bent each round into a circle and joined it up, making each meet itself and the other at a point opposite to that where they had been brought into contact. He then comprehended them in the motion that is carried round uniformly in the same place, and made the one the outer, the other the inner circle."     See also M. Wright's paraphrase: "In the myth, the Demiurge, after forming the ingredients necessary for the world-soul into a strip, divided the strip in half, crossed the two halves one over the other, and finally bent them round so as to form circles. He then caused these two circular strips to rotate in opposite directions in such a fashion that the one carried the other about beneath it; the underlying one was then further subdivided into seven unequal circles, in which were set the planets. This scheme allowed Plato to attribute at least two circular movements to each of the planets - one corresponding to the diurnal westward movement of the outer sky and the other to the eastward movement of the planets - so that the apparent movement of each planet was like that of the sun." (Cosmology in Antiquity p.148; see also p. 48)

Know, then, that God, praised and glorified be He, took a line, split it lengthwise in two, rotated the one about the other, and so made from them the universe. The line, however, formeth only from the point when you move it. Conceive ye then our meaning. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, JBS2:3 p.38, MA1.055)

Praise be to God, Who made the line generated from the Primal Point manifest in the letter Ba the ornament of the seal for His name overshadowing all names, Who then split it into two by the secret hidden between the two commands [Will (mashiyah) and Purpose (Iradah)], and took one up with the other under the veil of predestination [qadar]. Thereupon, the Most Great Book was completed and all who dwell in earth and heaven became adorned therewith so that the dawning-places of affirmation, subsequent to negation, might testify to that which the tree of fate [qada'] hath testified in the luminous Spot and turn toward the Dayspring of Alteration [bada'] at the scene of sacrifice.... (Abdu'l-Baha, commentary on the Qayyumu'l-Asma, MA9.048) PC00282

As for the symbol of the cross, appointed in former times:  Know, verily, that the cross from is a wonderful figure and consists of two right lines placed crosswise - one perpendicular to the other - and this figure exists in all things.  Meditate upon these words and pay attention to the tissue in all existing substances, either plant, animal or man, and thou wilt see that they are all formed of the cross figure or two crosswise lines.  Consider this intently with true meditation. TAB.598-599, LG#1718

Praise be to God, Who created the water through His manifest utterance in the Kingdom of Eternity. Then He gazed upon it and lo, it trembled within itself and a part of it became congealed. Thus the dusty earth appeared by His established decree in the world of origination. When these two elements became separated and distinguished one from another, the Tongue of Grandeur pronounced another word, and this water generated by the Will [mashiyyat] of the Most Manifest in the world of contingency moved, in that same realm of contingency, upon the earth generated by the Purpose [iradih] of the All-Merciful. By the interaction of these two a subtle, spiritual, luminous heat [harara] ascended by virtue of its potency to the uppermost degree in order to attain the station of which its all-glorious Lord speaketh. When it reached the utmost level, it stopped at that loftiest station, which is known as the loftiest sphere. Then the water became partially mixed with the earth and from them ascended another heat, which, on account of its feebleness, did not attain to the level of the first. It stopped at another station, which indicates the second sphere. In like manner, a heat ascended from these two one time after another until all the stations, by which is meant meant the spheres, became completed. Then the Tongue of Grandeur pronounced another word which caused the stations and spheres to revolve. From the force of the rotation a light shone forth and encompassed the face of heaven. Then brilliant stars and shining orbs appeared. When the majesty of His name, the Self-Subsisting, encompassed them from all directions, each one of the two became spherical, as is seen in the case of the sun and the moon. Exalted be the wise and almighty Creator, Who made His exalted Word to be the origin of the creation of the higher and lower worlds, the four elements, and the exalted, originated natures. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in Fa'ilayn va Munfa'ilayn, Andalib 5:19 p.32, INBA17:79-80)




God is the Creator. The word creator presupposes or connotes creation.... If we should say that there was a time in past ages when God was not possessed of His creation or that there was a beginning for the world, it would be a denial of creation and the Creator.... Among the bounties of God is revelation. Hence revelation is progressive and continuous. PUP.377-378

His name, the Creator, presupposeth a creation, even as His title, the Lord of Men, must involve the existence of a servant. GWB#078 p150

It is He Who hath called into being the whole of creation, Who hath caused every created thing to spring forth at His behest. GWB#094 p193

Know thou, moreover, that He it is Who hath, by His own behest, created all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth. GWB#113 p220; SLH.5#086

Lauded and glorified is He Who hath called the creation into being. TB.075

The Creator of all is One God. From this same God all creation sprang into existence, and He is the one goal, towards which everything in nature yearns. PT#15:1-2 p051

He, the invisible, the lofty and the incomprehensible, is preceded by no cause but rather is the Originator of the cause of causes. SWAB#030 p061

All things proceed from God and unto Him they return. He is the source of all things and in Him all things are ended. KA#144

In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Genesis 1:1
