



We cannot compare, much less identify the Baha'i Commonwealth of the future with any of the existing or known systems of government. The assumption that the Baha'i plan is reformed capitalism is incorrect even though we do uphold private property. For so do the socialists and to a lesser degree the communists. The difference between socialism and capitalism does not rest upon the issue of property, but on the question of the ownership and control of the means of production. Baha'u'llah does not answer this directly therefore it will be settled by the International House of Justice. In the meantime we cannot and should not lean to the right or to the left. (Pilgrim notes of Emeric Sala, Dec. 1937)

The time has come when those who preach the dogmas of materialism, whether of the east or the west, whether of capitalism or socialism, must give account of the moral stewardship they have presumed to exercise. Where is the "new world" promised by these ideologies? Where is the international peace to whose ideals they proclaim their devotion? Where are the breakthroughs into new realms of cultural achievement produced by the aggrandizement of this race, of that nation or of a particular class? Why is the vast majority of the world's peoples sinking ever deeper into hunger and wretchedness when wealth on a scale undreamed of by the Pharaohs, the Caesars, or even the imperialist powers of the nineteenth century is at the disposal of the present arbiters of human affairs? (The Universal House of Justice, The Promise of World Peace (1985), p. 1)

Thou hast asked whether to enlist in the Socialist party. The Baha'is must be in the Baha'i Cause which comprehends all the degrees and is perfect from every standpoint. AB11555

The principles of socialism are outstripped in the religions of God. For instance, God commands, 'But [they] prefer them [the poor] before themselves, although there be indigence among them' [Qur'an 59:9]. That is, the believers spend of their substance and share their possessions and prefer others to themselves willingly and with utmost spirituality. Socialists, however, desire to enforce equality and association by compulsion. Although the preference for others which is the exhortation of God is more difficult because the rich are enjoined to prefer others to them-selves, this will become common and will be the cause of tranquillity and an aid to the order of the world, because it depends upon the inclination and willingness of the giver. But socialism and egalitarianism, although easier, as those who have are made equal with others, yet such a system will not become widespread and is the cause of disturbance and tumult because it rests on compulsion and coercion. ABU1072

...a Christian Minster called on the Beloved. He was anxious to hear the master speak to him about socialism and its theories which he did at great length, illustrating it with intellectual and historical example to prove the equality of all classes is an impossibility. ["]What is desirable is to foster the spirit of a broader justice and sympathy amongst the rich - thus all classes may enjoy the benefits of society - there must be no starvation, no misery staring in the eyes, no over-worked factory boys and girls, no sallow-hardened emaciated faces. This earth belongs to all, the distribution of its products must be universal. Riches must not be concentrated the hands of a few. It must be limited through wise legislations and laws. The legislators must see to it that poor are protected from the greed of the rich man. They must charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high minded nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy; that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate." DAS.1914-06-09

In the Bolshevistic principles equality is effected through force. The masses who are opposed to the people of rank and to the wealthy class desire to partake of their advantages. But in the divine teachings equality is brought about through a ready willingness to share. It is commanded as regards wealth that the rich among the people, and the aristocrats should, by their own free will and for the sake of their own happiness, concern themselves with and care for the poor. This equality is the result of the lofty characteristics and noble attributes of mankind. PUP#102.36-37

In America I said to the Socialists: "These plans which you have will lead to no results. Suppose you take the property of the rich, what will you do after one year? All of you will be in need and will die from starvation. But it cannot be so for neither you nor the rich will be at rest." (Latimer Pilgrim Notes 17 Nov. 1919)
