



In this material world, time has changing cycles and place is subject to varying conditions. Seasons follow one another and individuals progress, regress, and develop.... The spiritual cycles associated with the Prophets of God proceed in like manner. That is, the day of the advent of the Holy Manifestations is the spiritual springtime. It is divine splendour and heavenly grace; it is the wafting of the breeze of life and the dawning of the Sun of Truth.... The spiritual cycles of the Sun of Truth, like the cycles of the physical sun, are in a state of perpetual motion and renewal. SAQ#14.1-12 (was SAQ.073-074)

The spiritual cycles of the Sun of Truth, like the cycles of the physical sun, are in a state of perpetual motion and renewal. SAQ#14.12 (was SAQ.076)

...the entire universe, whether with respect to the realm of nature or the realm of man, proceeds through cycles of major events and occurrences. When a cycle comes to a close, a new one is inaugurated, and the previous cycle, on account of the momentous events which transpire, vanishes so entirely from memory as to leave behind no record or trace. Thus, as you are aware, we have no record of twenty thousand years ago, even though we established before through rational arguments that life on this earth is very ancient--not one or two hundred thousand, or even one or two million years old: It is ancient indeed, and the records and traces of ancient times have been entirely obliterated. Each of the Manifestations of God has likewise a cycle wherein His religion and His law are in full force and effect. When His cycle is ended through the advent of a new Manifestation, a new cycle begins. Thus, cycles are inaugurated, concluded, and renewed, until a universal cycle is completed in the world of existence and momentous events transpire which efface every record and trace of the past; then a new universal cycle begins in the world, for the realm of existence has no beginning. SAQ#41.2-4 (was SAQ.160-161)

Know that nothing that exists remains in a state of repose--that is, all things are in motion. They are either growing or declining, either coming from non-existence into existence or passing from existence into non-existence. So this flower, this hyacinth, was for a time coming from non-existence into existence and is now passing from existence into non-existence. This is called essential or natural motion, and it can in no wise be dissociated from created things, for it is one of their essential requirements, just as it is an essential requirement of fire to burn. SAQ#63.1 (was SAQ.233)

Everything moves forward or backward, nothing is without motion.... All material things progress to a certain point, then begin to decline. This is the law which governs the whole physical creation.... We have seen that movement is essential to existence; nothing that has life is without motion. All creation ... is compelled to obey the law of motion; it must either ascend or descend. But with the human soul, there is no decline. Its only movement is towards perfection; growth and progress alone constitute the motion of the soul.... In the world of spirit there is no retrogression.... In the realm of spirit there is no retreat possible, all movement is bound to be towards a perfect state. 'Progress' is the expression of spirit in the world of matter. PT#29:4-9 p088-090

When thou dost plant a tree, its height increaseth day by day. It putteth forth blossoms and leaves and luscious fruits. But after a long time, it doth grow old, yielding no fruitage any more. Then doth the Husbandman of Truth take up the seed from that same tree, and plant it in a pure soil; and lo, there standeth the first tree, even as it was before. SWAB#023 p052

In this mortal world every important matter hath an end; and every remarkable achievement a termination; none having permanent existence.... the great Cause of the Kingdom of God ... hath no beginning and will have no end. At most, it is only renewed. SWAB#231 p311

...the recurrence of the same divine appearance is impossible for material beings.... With respect to the species, however, return and recurrence are plainly visible in material realities; that is, the trees which in years past bore leaves, blossoms, and fruit will in the years to come bear the same leaves, blossoms, and fruit. This is called recurrence of species. SAQ#81.6-7 (was SAQ.284)

When we look upon the phenomenal world, we perceive that it is divided into four seasons.... The appearances of the Manifestations of God are the divine springtime. PUP.010

According to an intrinsic law all phenomena of being attain to a summit and degree of consummation, after which a new order and condition is established. PUP.124

Note thou carefully that in this world of being, all things must ever be made new. Look at the material world about thee, see how it hath now been renewed. SWAB#023 p052
