



For the Cause is not a system of philosophy; it is essentially a way of life, a religious faith that seeks to unite all people on a common basis of mutual understanding and love, and in a common devotion to God. (14 Nov. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Lights of the Spirit p.100)

Religion is more than a belief, it is a way of life that needs daily renewing and a constant rededication, as well as deep study. (30 Sep. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, quoted in "Our Spiritual Growth at the World Centre", 25 Nov. 1982)

If the Prophets of God only came to this world in order to answer people's questions, and elucidate all the 'nonsense', for the most part, that people have gotten together and formed into cults and philosophies, they would have no time to instruct man by their example and through their teachings in a new way of life. LG#1822 (22 Apr. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Those who declare themselves as Baha'is should become enchanted with the beauty of the teachings, and touched by the love of Baha'u'llah. The declarants need not know all the proofs, history, laws, and principles of the Faith, but in the process of declaring themselves they must, in addition to catching the spark of faith, become basically informed about the Central Figures of the Faith, as well as the existence of laws they must follow and an administration they must obey. M63-86 18.4, LG#257, Ruhi6.3.27, Ruhi6.3.5 (13 Jul. 1964 from the Universal House of Justice)

Baha'is will come increasingly to appreciate that the Cause they serve represents the arrowhead of an awakening taking place everywhere, regardless of religious background and indeed among many with no religious leaning. (One Common Faith, p.iii)

Every receptive soul who hath in this Day inhaled the fragrance of His garment and hath, with a pure heart, set his face towards the all-glorious Horizon is reckoned among the people of Baha in the Crimson Book. TB.220, Ruhi8.1.6

The Baha'i Community shall consist of all persons recognized by the Universal House of Justice as possessing the qualifications of Baha'i faith and practice. CUHJ.08

I would only venture to state very briefly and as adequately as present circumstances permit the principal factors that must be taken into consideration before deciding whether a person may be regarded a true believer or not. Full recognition of the station of the Forerunner, the Author, and the True Exemplar of the Baha'i Cause, as set forth in 'Abdu'l-Baha's Testament; unreserved acceptance of, and submission to, whatsoever has been revealed by their Pen; loyal and steadfast adherence to every clause of our Beloved's sacred Will; and close association with the spirit as well as the form of the present day Baha'i administration throughout the world. BA.090

One's beliefs are an internal and personal matter; no person or institution has the right to exert compulsion in matters of belief. Since there is a wide range of meanings in the Sacred Scriptures, there are bound to be different ways in which individuals understand many of the Baha'i teachings. Nevertheless, it is necessary for the viability of the Baha'i community that its members share a common understanding of essentials. This implies a commitment by each member to function within the framework established by such an understanding. (26 Apr. 2001 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, quoted here)

All are welcome to enter the community's warm embrace and receive sustenance from Baha'u'llah's life-giving message. No greater joy is there, to be sure, than for a soul, yearning for the Truth, to find shelter in the stronghold of the Cause and draw strength from the unifying power of the Covenant. Yet every human being and every group of individuals, irrespective of whether they are counted among His followers, can take inspiration from His teachings, benefiting from whatever gems of wisdom and knowledge will aid them in addressing the challenges they face. Indeed, the civilization that beckons humanity will not be attained through the efforts of the Baha'i community alone. Ridvan.2010

When asked on one occasion: "What is a Baha'i?" 'Abdu'l-Baha replied: "To be a Baha'i simply means to love all the world; to love humanity and try to serve it; to work for universal peace and universal brotherhood." On another occasion He defined a Baha'i as "one endowed with all the perfections of man in activity." In one of His London talks He said that a man may be a Baha'i even if He has never heard the name of Baha'u'llah. He added: The man who lives the life according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah is already a Baha'i. On the other hand, a man may call himself a Baha'i for fifty years, and if he does not live the life he is not a Baha'i. BNE.071-072

One of the main reasons why the Faith does not advance more rapidly is because the friends have not learned to live with, and work within the framework of the Administrative Order. Either they crystallize it into too set a form, or they rebel against what they feel to be a System, and do not give it sufficient support. LDG1.275 (30 May 1952 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As he has written the Central and East Africa Assembly, he feels that the friends should be very careful not to place hindrances in the way of those who wish to accept the Faith. If we make the requirements too rigorous, we will cool off the initial enthusiasm, rebuff the hearts and cease to expand rapidly. The essential thing is that the candidate for enrolment should believe in his heart in the truth of Baha'u'llah. Whether he is literate or illiterate, informed of all the Teachings or not, is beside the point entirely. When the spark of faith exists the essential Message is there, and gradually everything else can be added unto it. (9 July 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As the believers invite growing numbers of individuals to participate in a united effort to apply Baha'u'llah's Teachings to the construction of a divine civilization, it becomes clear that the process of becoming a Baha'i is best viewed as a continuum--based on independent investigation, engagement in service, and increasing understanding--rather than as dichotomous states of membership and non-membership. (28 Sept. 2014 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)




A student of the modern methods of the higher criticism asked 'Abdu'l-Baha if he would do well to continue in the church with which he had been associated all his life, and whose language was full of meaning to him. 'Abdu'l-Baha answered: "You must not dissociate yourself from it. Know this; the Kingdom of God is not in any Society; some seekers go through many Societies as a traveller goes through many cities till he reach his destination. If you belong to a Society already do not forsake your brothers. You can be a Baha'i-Christian, a Baha'i-Freemason, a Baha'i-Jew, a Baha'i-Muhammadan. The number nine contains eight, and seven, and all the other numbers, and does not deny any of them. Do not distress or deny anyone by saying 'He is not a Baha'i!' He will be known by his deeds. There are no secrets among Baha'is; a Baha'i does not hide anything." AL.097-098
