



When these parts and elements are separated, the associated power of growth likewise ceases to exist.... After the separation and dissolution of these composed elements, this [animal] spirit will also naturally cease to exist. SAQ#36.1-2 (was SAQ.143)

The animal spirit which is common to both humans and animals is perishable and disappears after dissolution of the bodies and forms, because it exists through the elements and as the elements submit to decomposition and transformation through the succession of time it must necessarily perish. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:481-482 and AvK1.204ff)




Know that the order and perfection of the universe require that existence should appear in countless forms. Created things cannot therefore be realized in a single degree, station, manner, kind, or species: Differences of degree, distinctions in form, and a multiplicity of kinds and species are inevitable. So there must necessarily be mineral, vegetable, animal, and human kingdoms; for through man alone the world of existence could not be adequately arranged, adorned, organized, and perfected. By the same token, with the animals, plants, or minerals alone, this world would not possess such a wondrous appearance, sound arrangement, and subtle adornment: There must be differences of degrees and stations, of kinds and species, for existence to shine forth with the utmost perfection. SAQ#32.2 (was SAQ.129)

Know that in general there are five kinds of spirit. First is the vegetable spirit, which is the power that results from the composition and combination of the elements according to the wisdom and decree of the Most High, and from their mutual arrangement as well as their influence upon, and their interconnection with, other created things.... After this is the animal spirit, which also results from the combination of elements... After the separation and dissolution of these composed elements, this spirit will also naturally cease to exist.... As to the human spirit, its likeness is that of a glass and the bounty of the sun. That is, the body of man, which is composed of the elements, is the most perfect form of composition and combination, the soundest arrangement, the noblest composition, and the most perfect of all existing things. It grows and develops through the animal spirit.... As to the fourth degree of spirit, it is the heavenly spirit, which is the spirit of faith and the outpouring grace of the All-Merciful. This spirit proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit, and through a power born of God it becomes the cause of everlasting life.... The fifth degree of spirit is the Holy Spirit, which is the mediator between God and His creation. SAQ#36.1-7 (was SAQ.143-145)

There is but one reality and one essence that is expounded in the worlds of outer form, and, at each of its stages, is described by a specific name ... in accordance with the degrees of its particular manifestations on the plane of this limited world. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in "A Baha'i Perspective on the Origin of Matter", JBS2:3 p.41-42)

The first emanation is the outpouring grace of the Kingdom, which has emanated from God and has appeared in the realities of all things, even as the rays emanating from the sun are reflected in all things. And that grace--the rays--appears in infinite forms in the realities of all things, and is specified and individuated according to their capacity, receptivity, and essence. SAQ#82.17 (was SAQ.295)

So the great light abides and shines, and its radiance goes out through the world in rational order and proportion... Plotinus, Enn.IV.3.17

It is clear that human realities differ one from another, that opinions and perceptions vary, and that this divergence of thoughts, opinions, understandings, and sentiments among individuals is an essential requirement. For differences of degree in creation are among the essential requirements of existence, which is resolved into countless forms. We stand therefore in need of a universal power which can prevail over the thoughts, opinions, and sentiments of all, which can annul these divisions and bring all souls under the sway of the principle of the oneness of humanity. And it is clear and evident that the greatest power in the human world is the love of God. SAQ#84.4 (was SAQ.301)

God's grace is like the rain that cometh down from heaven: the water is not bounded by the limitations of form, yet on whatever place it poureth down, it taketh on limitations - dimensions, appearance, shape - according to the characteristics of that place... The rain itself hath no geometry, no limits, no form, but it taketh on one form or another, according to the restrictions of its vessel. In the same way, the Holy Essence of the Lord God is boundless, immeasurable, but His graces and splendours become finite in the creatures, because of their limitations... SWAB#139 p161

The spirit however possesseth various grades and stations.... the mind proveth the existence of an unseen Reality that embraceth all beings, and that existeth and revealeth itself in all stages, the essence whereof is beyond the grasp of the mind. Forel.09-10

Now, so long as the degrees of created things are different, some will naturally rank above the others. ...the election of certain creatures, such as man, for the highest degree; the maintenance of others, such as plants, in the middle degree; and the relegation of yet others, such as minerals, to the lowest degree are each and all due to the divine will and purpose.... As for material beings, they are not to be blamed, judged, or held accountable for their own degrees and stations. Thus the mineral, the plant, and the animal are each acceptable in their own degree, but if they were to remain deficient in that degree they would be blameworthy, the degree itself being wholly perfect. SAQ#32.5-6 (was SAQ.130)

It is therefore clear that in man's innate nature there is a difference in degree, aptitude, and capacity, but it is not a matter of good or evil--it is merely a difference of degree. One occupies the highest degree, another the middle degree, and yet another the lowest degree. Thus man, the animal, the plant, and the mineral all exist, but the existence of these four kinds of beings is different. Indeed, what a difference there is between the existence of man and that of the animal! Yet all these do exist, and it is evident that in existence there are differences of degree. SAQ#57.4 (was SAQ.212-213)

He hath ordained these Names and Attributes to be the first and foremost origin and cause of being in the world of creation and the source of the different grades of realities in the degrees of existence. When, through its power of attraction and propagation, the Day-Star of Names and Attributes shone upon the hidden realities in the heart of the unseen realm, they issued forth, were spread abroad, scattered about, set in order, became the recipients of the grace of God and His outpourings... (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:013)

...it is evident that the spirit manifests different aspects and traverses various contrasting and endless grades or stations. It has capacity to become a mirror for the reflection of the manifestation of divine (Lahutiyyih) realities and a point for reflecting perfect divine attributes. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:086)

Concerning the Divine Spirit or Soul (Lahutiyyih), it is the Supreme Reality comprising all the divine and heavenly realities manifested by the Ancient Light.... It reveals itself in various manifestations and signs. It distributes itself in different grades; it shines, encompasses and illumines every horizon... ('Abdu'l-Baha , provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:096)

Know thou that if this servant wisheth to describe this divine sign in its every hidden stage, in its divine reality and its evolution in the stages of Jabarut and Malakut and in the seen and the unseen realms and its heavenly manifestations, its unique conditions and its spiritual entities, and all that pertains thereunto in detail, it is possible for me through the aid and confirmation of God, but men have neither the capacity to hear nor understand. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:100-101)

Thou hast asked about the spirit and its various stages. The people believe that it is a single reality which is only multiplied in relation to various grades and stations; that is to say, it progresseth from the lowest level to the highest level. It is like the progression of the mineral from the mineral condition to the plane of growth, and like the progression of the plant from the vegetable state to the plane of sensation. When it arriveth in the world of man, it becometh specified and individualized by perfect determinations, and when it receiveth the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, it attaineth unto eternal life.     Although this view is correct, the intention of "spirit" here is existence and life, for existence hath one signification, not multiple significations. Furthermore, existence hath various states, and in each state it hath a different determination, individualization, and particular potentiality. For instance, the mineral, plant, animal, and human states all belong to the domain of existence, and not one of these realities is deprived of that signification. But existence hath a different manifestation, appearance, and condition in each state. Thus, in the stage of the mineral it hath a particular determination which distinguisheth it from other determinations and individualizations. And in the stage of the plant it possesseth certain qualities and manifestations that are unique to the vegetable world, and which are its particular determinations and individualizations. Then in the stage of the animal it manifesteth different properties and perfections that distinguish it from the other kingdoms. Finally, in the stage of man existence revealeth itself and shineth forth with the utmost power conceivable in the world of creation. In brief, existence hath one signification, but its manifestations, appearances, and attributes vary in every grade and station.     As for the kinds of spirit, these are fixed realities each having its own specification and individualization, particular perfections and attributes, which distinguish one from another. They differ with respect to their essential qualities and what they signify. The mineral spirit, therefore, cannot be compared to the plant spirit, because the latter is the power of growth. The animal spirit, also, is a specialized reality distinct from all besides itself through its attributes and significations, for it is the power of sense perception and volitional movement. MKT1:219-220, PC00511

Concerning the grades and degrees of spirit and its conditions, elevation and abasement, we described that this supreme sign traverses from one grade to another and from one station to another because in each grade it leaves its limitations and condition and becomes overwhelmed by the potency of the signs of the station which follows and becomes vanquished or overcome by the sufferings caused by such conditions which cleanse, refine and purify it from that which is unworthy of it in the path of its Lord. As it becomes purified and freed from each lower grade and ascends through the aid of its Creator to a loftier degree, it will rise above the powers of the lower stage and will overcome the forces of the lower condition. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:099)

The greatest power in the realm and range of human existence is spirit - the divine breath which animates and pervades all things. It is manifested throughout creation in different degrees or kingdoms. PUP.058

...all living things may be classified under two aspects of existence.  First, they possess bodies composed of material substance common to all - whether vegetable, animal or human.  This is their point of agreement or, as it is philosophically termed, their point of contact.  Second, they vary and differ from each other in degree and function - that is to say, in their respective kingdoms.  This is their point of distinction and differentiation. PUP.067

Each kingdom of creation is endowed with its necessary complement of attributes and powers. PUP.069

The divine emanations (fayudat-i illahiyah) pervading all created beings have had no beginning and will have no end. That illimitable bounty becomes effective in every station whenever the capacity appears to receive it. In every station there is a specialized capacity. PUP.160, KHT2.106 (Revised translation in Brown (2001), 104-105)

When we look upon the world of existence, we realize that all material things have a common bond; and yet, on the other hand, there are certain points of distinction between them. For instance, all earthly objects have common bodily ties.  The minerals, vegetables and animals have elemental bodies in common with each other.  Likewise, they have their place in the order of creation. PUP.189

But these are only degrees of love which exist in the natural or physical world.  Their manifestation is ever according to the requirement of natural conditions and standards. PUP.256

...man needs the light of the Holy Spirit, and the measure of illumination throughout creation is proportionate to the different kingdoms. ADP.111

According to science, all forms of creation are endowed with life; this element of life and energy depending on environment and adaptations. ADP.165

The atoms of the elements are predisposed (programmed) to synthesis and composition according to the laws of nature; the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will operates and creates in this manner. The Primal Will operates in the element, in the primal atom, as attraction and repulsion; on the next higher level as organic life; then as animal-vegetative; and finally as spiritual life, which is destined to rise to the super-spiritual. What develops is not the physical substratum (base), which actually exists from the beginning in its different kinds, each of which then develops only within its own kind to higher perfection, but rather does the Cosmic spirit, the divine Primal Will, unfold within the creature just as the bud of a flower unfolds... (Fallsheer notes, p. 35)

This is the way and manner how the creative and eternally creating Word of God, that is, the logos, is manifested and produces its effect in all atoms. In the mineral kingdom... (From a talk by Abdu'l-Baha recorded by Dr. Fallscheer in 1910)

...in philosophy the spirit is energy and all matter is endowed with energy; and this power is inseparable from matter, as in electricity. In other words, matter is a vehicle for spirit but the transformation of matter does not involve the extinction of that power because transformation and transference are in the properties of matter.... The manifestation or appearance of the spirit varies due to changes in matter and bodies. (Mahmud's Diary, 17 Oct. 1912, p. 335)

The qualities of the Primal Will are 'resolved into the tangible life creative forces manifest in the suns of the material universe' (Pilgrim note attributed to 'Abdu'l-Baha)

For there is a kind of centre, and around this a circle shining out from it, and beyond these another, light from light: but outside these there is no longer another circle of light but this next circle through lack of its own light needs illumination from another source. Plotinus, Enn.IV.3.17     ...Soul does not abide unchanged when it produces: it is moved and so brings forth an image. It looks to its source and is filled, and going forth to another opposed movement generates its own image, which is sensation and the principle of growth in plants. Enn.V.2.1

...living things are higher than things which merely exist, and sentient things than those which merely live, and reasoning things than those which merely feel, and intelligences than those which have only reason... (Pseudo-Dionysius, in Rolt p.133)

It [spirit] is manifested throughout creation in different degrees or kingdoms.  In the vegetable kingdom it is the augmentative spirit or power of growth... PUP.058

...the spirit radiates in all the realms of nature according to the receptive degree.  In the mineral world the spirit shows itself, but limited to that mineral condition.  It is proved through science that the mineral has the power of attraction... ADP.117

...the souls of the children of the Kingdom, after their separation from the body, ascend unto the realm of everlasting life. But if ye ask as to the place, know ye that the world of existence is a single world, although its stations are various and distinct... in the other world the human reality doth not assume a physical form, rather doth it take on a heavenly form, made up of elements of that heavenly realm.... Those souls who are pure and unsullied, upon the dissolution of their elemental frames, hasten away to the world of God, and that world is within this world. The people of this world, however, are unaware of that world, and are even as the mineral and the vegetable that know nothing of the world of the animal and the world of man. SWAB#163 p193-195

Although the degrees [of existence] are limited, the divine outpourings are unlimited and the heavenly perfections are infinite. AvK1.130, KHT1.143

The spirit is an emanation from God which has shone forth upon all created things, and all beings have a share and a portion thereof. ...the spirit manifests itself in the grades of existence in accordance with the requirements of those grades. In the mineral kingdom, it appears as the power of attraction, which causes these individual constituents to join together. It is the life force of the mineral, because the mineral in its own station is alive and not dead. In the plant kingdom, the power of growth is the vegetable spirit; and in the animal kingdom, the faculty of sense perception is the animal spirit, which results from the mingling and combination of elements; in other words, it is one of the requisites of such mingling and combination....         But according to the convention of the spiritually minded, the spirit which we have been discussing is not spirit, and what they intend by "spirit" is the everlasting spirit, or the life of faith. This is the spirit whereof His Holiness Christ said man must be baptized, and unless he is baptized by this spirit, he shall not enter into the Kingdom of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.186, KHT1.100, AvK1.245; PC00603)

The word "spirit" has several different significations, or rather there are several degrees of spirit... The spirit of faith endows man with the capacity to love God and to know God.... That is why Jesus said, "Let the dead bury their dead." One who is born of the flesh is flesh; one who is born of the spirit is spirit. Those men who have not been delivered from the darkness of the human estate and who have not been illumined by the effulgence of God, although they are human in form, are in reality but animals... The spirit of faith is like the ether regarded as the vehicle of light. Etheric matter is found everywhere; but only where it is in undulation does light appear. (Pilgrim notes of Myron Phelps, "Abbas Effendi: His Life and Teachings", pp. 161-163)

Thou hast written a description regarding the 'seven days'. This is one of the meanings intended in the Holy Book. But the second meaning is that such days refer to stations or degrees. The first station is that of the mineral kingdom, the second the vegetable kingdom, the third the animal, the fourth the realm of man's rational soul, the fifth the domain of the intellect, the sixth the world of the spirit, that is to say the Kingdom, and the seventh station is the realm of Absolute Oneness, of Godhead, of Divinity, and that marketh the culmination of the seven stations. The [first] six pertain to the world of creation, and are part of this contingent world. The seventh station is the realm of God, and is sanctified beyond the bounds of creation. Thus it is that this Holy Dispensation is situated at the seventh degree: it is the Great Cycle, the New Resurrection, the Supreme Day of Judgement, the Most Glorious Paradise, where the Tree of Life is planted. Thus, in reality, it hath no limit nor any end. (Provisional translation, AB04858)




As to the existence of spirit in the mineral:  it is indubitable that minerals are endowed with a spirit and life according to the requirements of that stage. Forel.09

...the rays of the Sun of Truth are shed upon all things and shining within them... Look thou upon the trees, upon the blossoms and fruits, even upon the stones. Here too wilt thou behold the Sun's rays shed upon them, clearly visible within them, and manifested by them. SWAB#019 p041-042

In the mineral realm there was a spirit of existence; in the world of plant life and organisms it reappeared as the vegetative spirit... PUP.088

The power of cohesion expressed in the mineral kingdom is in reality love or affinity manifested in a low degree according to the exigencies of the mineral world. PUP.255

The mineral kingdom is possessed of a certain virtue which we term cohesion. PUP.258

This stone is the lowest degree of phenomena, but nevertheless within it a power of attraction is manifest without which the stone could not exist. This power of attraction in the mineral world is love, the only expression of love the stone can manifest. PUP.268

...the latest scientific discoveries prove to us that even mineral has some form of life, and that it also needs water for its existence. PT#27:2 p082

...looking into the mineral kingdom, we observe that this law of attraction is working in the same manner.  Many atoms go into the composition of a piece of stone which through purification may reach to the station of a mirror. ADP.104

A mineral compared to us may be said to be non-existent, but in its own sphere it lives.  When we die our bodies return to the mineral and vegetable world.  This example shows the interrelationship of the different kingdoms which is erroneously called annihilation. ADP.107-108

...the spirit radiates in all the realms of nature according to the receptive degree.  In the mineral world the spirit shows itself, but limited to that mineral condition.  It is proved through science that the mineral has the power of attraction... ADP.117

Life as an attribute of growth is manifest to a minute degree in the mineral kingdom. ADP.165

In the mineral kingdom, soul is called 'latent force', silently working for the disintegration of the substance of the mineral. SW v07#19 p.190 (Abdu'l-Baha)

No matter how much the mineral has existence and life, yet in comparison to man, is it entirely non-existent and deprived of life. TAB.550

They that unveil the mysteries of existence, they that are cognizant of the properties and hidden secrets, hold that a wondrous force and attraction, a strange magnetic interconnection, permeates and encompasses and prevails throughout these infinite beings and successive contingent things, both physical and spiritual. It is through this universal force that the individual atoms of diverse simple elements have gathered together, and due to the variety and difference of parts, and the multiplication and contrast of infinite diverse realities, beings have come into existence. Thus hath the world of matter become a rose garden of wonders and a paradise of delicate and elegant things. In truth, every thing hath unveiled itself and displayed its beauty through that universal attractive force in some particular manifestation, and in human essence it hath become the power of yearning, bringing about enthusiasm, longing and rapture. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], also WUJUDE.183-184; AvK1.143.11)

As we look upon the universe we observe that all composite beings or existing phenomena are made up primarily of single elements bound together by a power of attraction. Through this power of attraction, cohesion has become manifest between atoms of these composing elements. The resultant being is a phenomenon of the lower contingent type. The power of cohesion expressed in the mineral kingdom is in reality love or affinity manifested in a low degree according to the exigencies of the mineral world. We take a step higher into the vegetable kingdom where we find an increased power of attraction has become manifest among the composing elements which form phenomena. Through this degree of attraction a cellular admixture is produced among these elements which make up the body of a plant. Therefore in the degree of the vegetable kingdom there is love. We enter the animal kingdom and find the attractive power binding together single elements as in the mineral, plus the cellular admixture as in the vegetable, plus the phenomena of feelings or susceptibilities. We observe that the animals are susceptible to certain affiliation and fellowship, and that they exercise natural selection. This elemental attraction, this admixture and selective affinity is love manifest in the degree of the animal kingdom. Finally we come to the kingdom of man. As this is the superior kingdom, the light of love is more resplendent. In man we find the power of attraction among the elements which compose his material body, plus the attraction which produces cellular admixture or power augmentative, plus the attraction which characterizes the sensibilities of the animal kingdom, but still beyond and above all these lower powers we discover in the being of man the attraction of heart, the susceptibilities and affinities which bind men together, enabling them to live and associate in friendship and solidarity. It is therefore evident that in the world of humanity the greatest king and sovereign is love. If love were extinguished, the power of attraction dispelled, the affinity of human hearts destroyed, the phenomena of human life would disappear. FWU.088




Know that in general there are five kinds of spirit. First is the vegetable spirit, which is the power that results from the composition and combination of the elements according to the wisdom and decree of the Most High, and from their mutual arrangement as well as their influence upon, and their interconnection with, other created things.... After this is the animal spirit, which also results from the combination of elements... After the separation and dissolution of these composed elements, this spirit will also naturally cease to exist.... As to the human spirit, its likeness is that of a glass and the bounty of the sun. That is, the body of man, which is composed of the elements, is the most perfect form of composition and combination, the soundest arrangement, the noblest composition, and the most perfect of all existing things. It grows and develops through the animal spirit.... As to the fourth degree of spirit, it is the heavenly spirit, which is the spirit of faith and the outpouring grace of the All-Merciful. This spirit proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit, and through a power born of God it becomes the cause of everlasting life.... The fifth degree of spirit is the Holy Spirit, which is the mediator between God and His creation. SAQ#36.1-7 (was SAQ.143-145)

It was already explained that, in general, spirit is divided into five categories: the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, the human spirit, the spirit of faith, and the Holy Spirit. SAQ#55.2 (was SAQ.208)

Know that spirit in general is divided into five sorts - the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, the human spirit, the spirit of faith, and the divine spirit of sanctity. The vegetable spirit is the virtue augmentative, or growing or vegetative faculty, which results from the admixture of the simple elements, with the cooperation of water, air and heat. The animal spirit is the virtue perceptive resulting from the admixture and absorption of the vital elements generated in the heart, which apprehend sense-impressions. The human spirit consists of the rational, or logical, reasoning faculty, which apprehends general ideas and things intelligible and perceptible. Now these "spirits" are not reckoned as Spirit in the terminology of the Scriptures and the usage of the people of the Truth, inasmuch as the laws governing them are as the laws which govern all phenomenal being (i.e., all existences belonging to the phenomenal or material universe, called "the world of generation and corruption"), in respect to generation, corruption, production, change and reversion... TAB.115, MKT1:128

When we look upon the kingdoms of creation below man, we find three forms or planes of existence which await education and development.... As to the human world:  It is more in need of guidance and education than the lower creatures. PUP.077

Know thou that the spirits are divided into the animal spirit, the human spirit, the spirit of mercy (rahmaniyyih), and the Divine Spirit (Lahutiyyih).... Besides these spirits which have been mentioned for thee, God hath created innumerable spirits such as the vegetable spirit, the spirit of the Kingdom (Malakut), the spirit of the Dominion (Jabarut) and the rational spirit (ruh 'aqli). ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:481, 483 and AvK1.204ff)

In the world of existence ... there are stages of mortality: the first stage is the mineral world, next is the vegetable world.... SWAB#030 p061, SW v11#10 p159

When we examine all things with the eye of discernment, we observe that they are generally confined to three categories: mineral, vegetable, and animal. Thus there are three classes of beings and each class has its associated species. SAQ#64.1 (was SAQ.235)

...all existing things may be classified as follows:  first, mineral... second, vegetable... third, animal... fourth, human PUP.029

It [spirit] is manifested throughout creation in different degrees or kingdoms.  In the vegetable kingdom it is the augmentative spirit or power of growth... PUP.058

...all living things ... vary and differ from each other in degree and function - that is to say, in their respective kingdoms.  This is their point of distinction and differentiation. PUP.067

In the mineral realm there was a spirit of existence; in the world of plant life and organisms it reappeared as the vegetative spirit; thence it attained the animal spirit and finally aspired to the human spirit. PUP.088

...the men of divine knowledge have said that all existing phenomena may be resolved into grades or kingdoms, classified progressively as mineral, vegetable, animal and human, each of which possesses its degree of function and intelligence. PUP.240

In the differentiation of life in the world of existence, there are four degrees of kingdoms:  the mineral, vegetable, animal, and human. PUP.258

The understanding is the power by which man acquires his knowledge of the several kingdoms of creation, and of various stages of existence, as well as of much which is invisible. PT#11:2 p041

..."soul" is a term applied to numerous realities, according to the exigencies of the following relations with respect to development in the world of existence... (1) In the mineral kingdom, soul is called "latent force"... (2) In the vegetable kingdom it is called "virtue augmentative" or the power of growth... (3) In the animal kingdom it is called "sense perception" or instinct... (4) In the human world, soul signifies the "rational being" or mind... (5) If the angelic aspect becomes more powerful, and the divine power and brightness surround man, then the second birth takes place, and eternal life is found at this point. SW v07#19 p.189-191 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Spirit hath illimitable stations and innumerable conditions or degrees. But in the world of existence they are generally limited and enumerated as the cohesive mineral, the growing vegetable, the sensible animal, the mortal human, the abased soul (amarih), the self-accusing soul (lawwamih), the inspired soul (mulhamih), the assured soul (mutma'innih), the contented soul (radiyyih), the approved soul (mardiyyih), the perfect soul (kamalih), the soul of the kingdom (Malakut), the soul of the Dominion (Jabarut), [and] the Divine Soul (Lahut).... ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AB00007, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:085)

The Spirit of the vegetable kingdom is a power resulting from the combination of a few elements.... Animal Spirit also results through the combination and mingling together of various elements.... But the Human Spirit is like the crystal/magnifying glass which reflects and transmits the rays.... The force in this spirit, is the Spirit of Faith and Belief.... The fifth and last degree of Spirit is the Holy Spirit. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, pp. 41-43)

Regard this globe.  Its divisions are mineral, vegetable and animal.  Man is the result of all these; therefore man is the result of all existence here. ADP.122

There are seven general stages. The first is the stage of the inorganic being. From the mineral kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the plant..., and from the plant kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the animal....When it reacheth the stage of soul, spirit, and mind, then in accordance with that stage, it hath a death which will certainly destroy all privative aspects. Finally, the command will reach the stage of the inmost heart, which is the gulf of immortality and pure life, in the presence of the Lord of creation. There, for evermore, the servant will gaze towards God. (The Bab, provisional translation, Asraru'l-Athar, vol. 4, p. 121, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

The spirit is an emanation from God which has shone forth upon all created things, and all beings have a share and a portion thereof. ...the spirit manifests itself in the grades of existence in accordance with the requirements of those grades. In the mineral kingdom, it appears as the power of attraction, which causes these individual constituents to join together. It is the life force of the mineral, because the mineral in its own station is alive and not dead. In the plant kingdom, the power of growth is the vegetable spirit; and in the animal kingdom, the faculty of sense perception is the animal spirit, which results from the mingling and combination of elements; in other words, it is one of the requisites of such mingling and combination....         But according to the convention of the spiritually minded, the spirit which we have been discussing is not spirit, and what they intend by "spirit" is the everlasting spirit, or the life of faith. This is the spirit whereof His Holiness Christ said man must be baptized, and unless he is baptized by this spirit, he shall not enter into the Kingdom of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.186, KHT1.100, AvK1.245; PC00603)

The behavior of large and complex aggregates of elementary particles, it turns out, is not to be understood in terms of a simple extrapolation of the properties of a few particles. Instead, at each level of complexity entirely new properties appear, and the understanding of the new behaviors requires research which I think is as fundamental in its nature as any other. (Philip Warren Anderson, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philip_Warren_Anderson, Science 1972, v.177, p.393)




The greatest power in the realm and range of human existence is spirit - the divine breath which animates and pervades all things. It is manifested throughout creation in different degrees or kingdoms. PUP.058
