



...that perchance every soul, whether high or low, may obtain, according to his measure and capacity, his share and portion thereof... KI#189 p175

Now, the differences among mankind are twofold: One is a difference of degree, and this difference is not blameworthy. The other is a difference with respect to faith and certitude, the absence of which is blameworthy; for the soul must have fallen prey to its own lusts and passions to have been deprived of this bounty and bereft of the attractive power of the love of God. SAQ#32.7 (was SAQ.130-131)

...certain foolish ones ..., after having ascended into the heavens of their idle fancies, have interpreted Divine Unity (tawhid) to mean that all created things are the signs of God, and that, consequently, there is no distinction whatsoever between them. Some have even outstripped them by maintaining that these signs are peers and partners of God Himself. Gracious God! GWB#093 p187

...one ought not to enquire whether one thing is less than another but whether it is, as itself, sufficient: for all things ought not to have been equal. Plotinus, Enn.III.3.3

And now, concerning thy question regarding the creation (fitrah) of man. Know thou that all men have been created in the nature (fitrah) made by God, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting. Unto each one hath been prescribed a pre-ordained measure, as decreed in God's mighty and guarded Tablets. GWB#077 p149, Ruhi7.1.10

To transgress the limits of one's own rank and station is, in no wise, permissible. The integrity of every rank and station must needs be preserved. By this is meant that every created thing should be viewed in the light of the station it hath been ordained to occupy. GWB#093 p188

Thou hast, also, assigned unto every soul a portion of this virtue in accordance with the Tablet of Thy degree and the Scriptures of Thine irrevocable judgment. PM#085 p143

It behoveth the people of God to be forbearing. They should impart the Word of God according to the hearer's particular measure of understanding and capacity... TB.237

...differences in the level of intelligence are innate; and this fact is obvious, and not worth debating. For we see that children of the same age, the same country, the same race, indeed of the same family, and trained by the same individual, still are different as to the degree of their comprehension and intelligence. One will make rapid progress, one will receive instruction only gradually, one will remain at the lowest stage of all. For no matter how much you may polish a shell, it will not turn into a gleaming pearl.... That is to say, education cannot alter the inner essence of a man, but it doth exert tremendous influence, and with this power it can bring forth from the individual whatever perfections and capacities are deposited within him. ...by their essential nature, minds vary as to their capacity, while education also playeth a great role and exerteth a powerful effect on their development. SWAB#193 p131-132

...the capacity for faith, and the deserving it, can be so great, that without the communication of a single word the light shines forth... ('Abdu'l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, p.47)

As to the innate character, although the innate nature bestowed by God upon man is purely good, yet that character differs among men according to the degrees they occupy: All degrees are good, but some are more so than others. Thus every human being possesses intelligence and capacity, but intelligence, capacity, and aptitude differ from person to person. This is self-evident. For example, take a number of children from the same place and family, attending the same school and instructed by the same teacher, raised on the same food and in the same climate, wearing the same clothing and studying the same lessons: It is certain that among these children some will become skilled in the arts and sciences, some will be of average ability, and some will be dull. It is therefore clear that in man's innate nature there is a difference in degree, aptitude, and capacity, but it is not a matter of good or evil--it is merely a difference of degree. SAQ#57.3-4 (was SAQ.212)

The rational soul is endowed from the beginning with individuality; it does not acquire it through the intermediary of the body. At most, what can be said is that the individuality and identity of the rational soul may be strengthened in this world, and that the soul may either progress and attain to the degrees of perfection or remain in the lowest abyss of ignorance and be veiled from and deprived of beholding the signs of God. SAQ#66.4 (was SAQ.240)

...it is said in the Gospel that God is like a potter who makes "one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour". Now, the dishonoured vessel has no right to reproach the potter, saying, "Why did you not make me a precious cup that would be passed from hand to hand?" The meaning of these words is that souls occupy different stations. That which occupies the lowest station of existence, like the mineral, has no right to object, saying, "O God, why have you denied me the perfections of the plant?" Likewise, the plant has no right to protest that it has been deprived of the perfections of the animal realm. And, similarly, it is not befitting for the animal to complain of the want of human perfections. No, all these things are perfect in their own degree and must pursue the perfections of that degree. SAQ#70.5 (was SAQ.249) cf. Omar Khayyam (Fitzgerald translation, 1st edition): Listen again. One Evening at the Close Of Ramazan, ere the better Moon arose, In that old Potter's Shop I stood alone With the clay Population round in Rows. And, strange to tell, among that Earthen Lot Some could articulate, while others not: And suddenly one more impatient cried-- ``Who is the Potter, pray, and who the Pot?'' Then said another--``Surely not in vain ``My Substance from the common Earth was ta'en, ``That He who subtly wrought me into Shape ``Should stamp me back to common Earth again.'' Another said--``Why, ne'er a peevish Boy, ``Would break the Bowl from which he drank in Joy; ``Shall He that made the vessel in pure Love ``And Fansy, in an after Rage destroy?'' None answer'd this; but after Silence spake A Vessel of a more ungainly Make: ``They sneer at me for leaning all awry; ``What! did the Hand then of the Potter shake?'' Said one--``Folks of a surly Tapster tell, ``And daub his Visage with the Smoke of Hell; ``They talk of some strict Testing of us--Pish! ``He's a Good Fellow, and 'twill all be well.'' Then said another with a long-drawn Sigh, ``My Clay with long oblivion is gone dry: ``But, fill me with the old familiar Juice, ``Methinks I might recover by-and-by!''

The Manifestations of God, on the other hand, affirm that differences are demonstrably and indisputably innate, and that 'We have caused some of you to excel others' is a proven and inescapable fact. It is certain that human beings are, by their very nature, different one from the other.... the disparity among individuals is due to differences of degree which are innate. But the Manifestations also consider that training and education demonstrably exert a tremendous influence.... Thus is it certain that education exerteth an influence, and for this reason the Manifestations of God, the Well-Springs of His mercy, are raised up in the world, that through the breaths of holiness They may educate the human race, and make of the suckling child a strong and valiant man. (Abdu'l-Baha, in Compilation on Education, #36, p. 13)

...the friends of God have been endowed with ability and capacity, on which account [these] became of the 'chosen' and not of the 'called' TAB.109

Know thou that the Messianic Spirit and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit is always manifest, but capacity and ability (to receive it) is more in some and less in others. TAB.193

The republic of wise men believes that the difference in minds and opinions is due to the difference of education and the acquisition of ethics.... The prophets also acknowledge this opinion, to wit: That education hath a great effect upon the human race, but they declare that minds and comprehensions are originally different.... No matter how much the shell is educated (or polished), it can never become the radiant pearl. The black stone will not become the world illuming gem. The calocynth and the thorny cactus can never by training and development become the blessed tree. That is to say, training doth not change the human gem (i. e., human nature or entity), but it produceth a marvelous effect. By this effective power all that is registered latent of virtues and capacities in the human reality will be revealed. TAB.576

One heart may possess the capacity of the polished mirror; another, be covered and obscured by the dust and dross of this world.  Although the same Sun is shining upon both, in the mirror which is polished, pure and sanctified you may behold the Sun in all its fullness, glory and power, revealing its majesty and effulgence; but in the mirror which is rusted and obscured there is no capacity for reflection, although so far as the Sun itself is concerned it is shining thereon and is neither lessened nor deprived. PUP.014-015

The capacities of souls are different.  Their conditions are various.... As difference in degree of capacity exists among human souls, as difference in capability is found, therefore, individuals will differ one from another.  But in reality this is a reason for unity and not for discord and enmity. PUP.023-024

According to the statement of philosophers the difference in degree of humankind from lowest to highest is due to education.... It is evident that although education improves the morals of mankind, confers the advantages of civilization and elevates man from lowest degrees to the station of sublimity, there is, nevertheless, a difference in the intrinsic or natal capacity of individuals. PUP.085

No individual should be denied or deprived of intellectual training, although each should receive according to capacity. PUP.108

...inequality in degree and capacity is a property of nature. PUP.132

Differences of capacity in human individuals is fundamental. PUP.217

...although individuals may differ in development and capacity, they are essentially and intrinsically equal as human beings PUP.284

The law of order must always obtain in the world of humanity. Heaven has so decreed in the creation of man. Some are full of intelligence, others have an ordinary amount of it, and others again are devoid of intellect. In these three classes of men there is order but not equality.... Degrees are absolutely necessary to ensure an orderly organization. PT#46:6-7 p152

...there is a fundamental difference in men....  In the innate nature there are differences of memory, perception and intelligence.  There is a superior, a middle and an inferior degree which corresponds to the difference in the fundamental estates of creation. While recognizing the influence of education we must also become acquainted with the innate disposition. ADP.109

Know that in the case of man, due to difference of capacities, the same law applies, so much so that no one shall be capable of trespassing his own limit and capacity. No bird can ever fly above and beyond the limit of its flight. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:098)

The King appoints one to be his prime minister, another to be his greatest general and so on from the highest to the lowest. If all were generals or all were soldiers there would be no kingdom. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, pp. 46-47)

Baha'u'llah has laid down a great foundation for a system which, although it advocates the oneness of humanity and upholds the common weal, will preserve the various ranks. Every rank should perform its duties. Rights should be equal and all are the servants of one kind God. (Mahmud's Diary, 1 Nov. 1912, p. 364)

Each soul has its station of individuality in which it may develop itself, but a soul cannot leave its own station for another station or individuality. Man accomplishes his true growth when the soul develops in its own station. His station does not change, simply his capacity for knowing God is increased and developed. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of 'Akka, p.22)

Souls differ in their capacity to receive and manifest the Light of the Spirit. The Blessed Perfection said, 'There are as many ways to God as the breaths of His Human creatures.' Each soul must develop according to individual capacity. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of 'Akka, p.41)

God has given to each what he deserves according to his already existing propensity (bi-ma huwa 'alayhi). This divine knowledge is the knowledge of potentialities. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir Surat al-Baqara, Tihran MSS 6014C, f22, as quoted in B. Todd Lawson, The Qur'an Commentary of the Bab, in A. Rippin, Approaches to the History of the Interpretation of the Qur'an, p. 239)

See how We have bestowed more on some than on others; but verily the hereafter is more in rank and gradation and more in excellence. Qur'an 17:21

The whole duty of man in this Day is to attain that share of the flood of grace which God poureth forth for him. Let none, therefore, consider the largeness or smallness of the receptacle. The portion of some might lie in the palm of a man's hand, the portion of others might fill a cup, and of others even a gallon-measure. GWB#005 p008, Ruhi1.3.7

This Sun has shone upon all mankind.  In the endless variety of its reflections the divine Will is manifested.  Consider how all are recipients of the bounty of the same Sun.  At most the difference between them is that of degree, for the effulgence is one effulgence, the one light emanating from the Sun. PUP.014

None of us is there, but has a known station (maqamun ma'lumun); we are those ranged in ranks, we are they that give glory. Qur'an 37:164-166

Know thou that every soul is fashioned after the nature of God, each being pure and holy at his birth. Afterwards, however, the individuals will vary according to what they acquire of virtues or vices in this world. Although all existent beings are in their very nature created in ranks or degrees, for capacities are various, nevertheless every individual is born holy and pure, and only thereafter may he become defiled. SWAB#159 p190

the human soul is to be compared to a weaver, but human life to a woven fabric.... God, the Lord, the taskmaster, covers the weaver's loom (the human milieu) with the warp of fate..... The human soul then weaves the weft of the fabric with the shuttle of the senses, the imagination and action until life's end.... The material to be woven, be it hemp, yarn, wool or silk, or some other mixture, the soul cannot choose, nor the implement, but only the ways and means of weaving... (Pilgrim notes of Dr. Fallscheer)

...humanity is the dawning of light, which is to say that it is the beginning of the Day of Oneness and Guidance and the end of the night of plurality and loss. It is the mirror with the disposition to reflect all of the conflicting and opposing Names and is the source of the revelation of all of the Attributes of Divinity and Lordship.... However although he is the dawning-place of the manifestation of all the Names and Attributes, one of the Divine Names is manifested most strongly and appears most intensely [in each person]. Thus his being originates from this Name and returns to it. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:041-042)

It is nonetheless indisputably clear and evident that the minds of men have never been, nor shall they ever be, of equal capacity. TU.2#22




Question.- How many kinds of character [akhlaq] are there in man and what are the causes of the differences and variations among them? Answer: There are the innate [fitri] character, the inherited [irthi] character, and the acquired [iktisabi] character, which is gained through education. SAQ#57.1-2 (was SAQ.212)

Now, someone might say that, since the capacity and aptitude of souls differ, such difference in capacity must inevitably lead to a difference in character. But this is not so, for capacity [isti'dad] is of two kinds: innate [fitri] and acquired [iktisabi]. The innate capacity, which is the creation of God, is wholly and entirely good--in the innate nature there is no evil. The acquired capacity, however, can become the cause of evil. SAQ#57.9 (was SAQ.214-215)

Inherited characteristics of the soul are not innate, while the inherent ones are innate and not acquired. The inherent characteristics of the soul derive from man's own nature. (10 Jul. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Souls possess two types of capacity: one is derived from innate powers and the other is acquired through the education imparted by the Teacher of the world of humanity. The development of innate capacity is completely dependent on education and on man's own exertions. (Mahmud's Diary, 2 May 1912, p. 73)

...there are two great blessings in the world of existence: one is innate capacity which is bestowed by the Creator; and the other, acquired perfections which depend upon training by a teacher and educator. (Mahmud's Diary, 15 Nov. 1912, p. 393)

Personality is of two kinds. One is the natural or God-given personality which the western thinkers call individuality, the inner aspect of man which is not subject to change; and the other personality is the result of acquired arts, sciences and virtues with which man is decorated.... As regards the personality which is the result of acquired virtues, let us take this mirror as an example: In the beginning it was a piece of black stone; now, through the process of purification, it has become a mirror and has reflecting power and displays its innate perfections so that they are clearly visible to all. The rock was endowed with a distinct individuality which acquired a personality through the process of education. The individuality of each created thing is based upon divine wisdom, for in the creation of God there is no defect. However, personality has no element of permanence. It is a slightly changeable quality in man which can be turned in either direction. For if he acquire praiseworthy virtues, these strengthen the individuality of man and call forth his hidden forces; but if he acquire defects, the beauty and simplicity of the individuality will be lost to him and its God-given qualities will be stifled in the foul atmosphere of self.... The personality of man is developed through education, while his individuality which is divine and heavenly should be his guide. ADP.130-133, Ruhi5.2.4




...although individuals may differ in development and capacity, they are essentially and intrinsically equal as human beings PUP.284

Know thou that every soul is fashioned after the nature of God, each being pure and holy at his birth. Afterwards, however, the individuals will vary according to what they acquire of virtues or vices in this world. Although all existent beings are in their very nature created in ranks or degrees, for capacities are various, nevertheless every individual is born holy and pure, and only thereafter may he become defiled. SWAB#159 p190

At the time of the Revelation all men are equal in rank. By reason, however, of their acceptance or rejection, rise or fall, motion or stillness, recognition or denial, they come to differ thereafter. For instance, the one true God, magnified be His glory, speaking through the intermediary of His Manifestation, doth ask: "Am I not your Lord?" Every soul that answereth "Yea, verily!" is accounted among the most distinguished of all men in the sight of God. Our meaning is that ere the Word of God is delivered, all men are deemed equal in rank and their station is one and the same. It is only thereafter that differences appear, as thou hast no doubt observed. TU.2#50

At the time of the appearance and manifestation of the rays of the Daystar of Truth, all occupy the same station. God then proclaimeth that which He willeth, and whoso heareth His call and acknowledgeth His truth is accounted among the inhabitants of Paradise. TU.3#11

As for what is meant by the equality of souls in the all-highest realm, it is this: the souls of the believers, at the time when they first become manifest in the world of the body, are equal, and each is sanctified and pure. In this world, however, they will begin to differ one from another, some achieving the highest station, some a middle one, others remaining at the lowest stage of being. Their equal status is at the beginning of their existence; the differentiation followeth their passing away. SWAB#145 p171

Know thou moreover that in the Day of His Manifestation all things besides God shall be brought forth and placed equally, irrespective of their rank being high or low. TB.186
