



Do not take into consideration your own aptitudes and capacities, but fix your gaze on the consummate bounty, the divine bestowal and the power of the Holy Spirit - the power that converteth the drop into a sea and the star into a sun. SWAB#068 p104, Ruhi7.2.29

One must never consider one's own feebleness, it is the strength of the Holy Spirit of Love, which gives the power to teach. PT#09:26 p039

...you must not say that you are dust. Nay, rather, you must look at the effulgence of the Sun of Reality, which ever shines upon you. You must look at the cloud of the Kingdom that ever pours down its rain upon you. You must feel the breeze of Providence that ever blows toward you. (Memories of Abdu'l-Baha, by Ramona Allen Brown, p. 80)

The whole duty of man in this Day is to attain that share of the flood of grace which God poureth forth for him. Let none, therefore, consider the largeness or smallness of the receptacle. The portion of some might lie in the palm of a man's hand, the portion of others might fill a cup, and of others even a gallon-measure. GWB#005 p008, Ruhi1.3.7

...look not on the degree of your capacity, ask not if you are worthy of the task: rest ye your hope on the help and loving-kindness, the favours and bestowals of Baha'u'llah... SWAB#008 p023

In this station, merit and capacity are not to be considered; nay rather, the resplendent rays of the Sun of Truth, which have illumined these mirrors, must be taken into account. SWAB#068 p105

Regarding one's lack of capacity and one's undeserving on the Day of Resurrection, this does not cause one to be shut out from gifts and bounties; for this is not the Day of Justice but the Day of Grace, while justice is allotting to each whatever is his due. Then look thou not at the degree of thy capacity, look thou at the boundless favour of Baha'u'llah; all-encompassing is His bounty, and consummate His grace. SWAB#153 p179, Ruhi6.2.19 (last sentence)

Turn your faces away from the contemplation of your own finite selves and fix your eyes upon the Everlasting Radiance; then will your souls receive in full measure the Divine Power of the Spirit and the Blessings of the Infinite Bounty. PT#51:14 p166

No capacity is limited when led by the Spirit of God! The earth of itself has no properties of life, it is barren and dry, until fertilized by the sun and the rain; still the earth need not bewail its own limitations. May you be given life! PT#51:13-14 p166

Look not at your own capacities, for the divine bestowal can transform a drop into an ocean...  PUP.131

Let us not regard our own respective capacities; nay, rather, let us regard forever the favors and bounties of God... PUP.420

Now we must not consider our ability and capacity, nay rather we must fix our gaze upon the favors and bounties of God ADJ#082 p057 (Abdu'l-Baha)

...do not look upon thy capacity ... nay, rather, look upon the infinite grace of the Bounty of Abha... TAB.243

...do not consider thy capacity and merit, but rely on the infinite bounty and trust to His Highness the Almighty TAB.565

Consider not thy capacity and merit, nay rather consider the grace of thy Lord... TAB.608

Look not at thy capacity and ability; nay, look at the grace of thy Lord in these days and at the gift of His Kingdom... TAB.713

Look thou not upon thine own capability, the Invisible Divine Confirmations are great, and the Protection and Providence of the Beauty of Abha is the helper and assistant. When a drop draws help from the ocean, it is an ocean itself, and a little seed through the outpouring of rain, the favor of the sun, and the soul-refreshing breeze will become a tree with the utmost freshness, full of leaves, blossoms and fruits. Therefore do not consider thy capacity and merit, but rely upon the infinite Bounty and trust to His Highness the Almighty. JWTA.027 (Abdu'l-Baha)

You should not look at your limitations, but derive full confidence at the thought that, however limited your resources and capacities may be, your efforts will be reinforced by Divine confirmations, provided you do your share and discharge your obligations as a believer, fully and conscientiously. Your perseverance will, even as a magnet, draw upon you the favours and blessings of Baha'u'llah. LG#407 (30 Jan. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Whatever the particular field of service you may choose, whether teaching or administrative, the essential is for you preserve, and not to allow any consciousness of your limitations to dampen your zeal, much less to deter you from serving joyously and actively. LG#408 (6 Feb. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




When you call on the Mercy of God waiting to reinforce you, your strength will be tenfold. Look at me: I am so feeble, yet I have had the strength given me to come amongst you: a poor servant of God, who has been enabled to give you this message! I shall not be with you long! One must never consider one's own feebleness, it is the strength of the Holy Spirit of Love, which gives the power to teach. The thought of our own weakness could only bring despair. We must look higher than all earthly thoughts; detach ourselves from every material idea, crave for the things of the spirit; fix our eyes on the everlasting bountiful Mercy of the Almighty, who will fill our souls with the gladness of joyful service to His command 'Love One Another'. PT#09:25-26 p039, Ruhi2.2.7

Perhaps the reason why you have not accomplished so much in the field of teaching is the extent you looked upon your own weaknesses and inabilities to spread the message. Baha'u'llah and the Master have both urged us repeatedly to disregard our own handicaps and lay our whole reliance upon God. He will come to our help if we only arise and become an active channel for God's grace. Do you think it is the teachers who make converts and change human hearts? No, surely not. They are only pure souls who take the first step, and then let the spirit of Baha'u'llah move them and make use of them. If any one of them should even for a second consider his achievements as due to his own capacities, his work is ended and his fall starts. This is in fact the reason why so many competent souls have after wonderful services suddenly found themselves absolutely impotent and perhaps thrown aside by the Spirit of the Cause as useless souls. The criterion is the extent to which we are ready to have the will of God operate through us.         Stop being conscious of your frailties, therefore; have a perfect reliance upon God; let your heart burn with the desire to serve His mission and proclaim His call; and you will observe how eloquence and the power to change human hearts will come as a matter of course. COC#1703 (31 Mar. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi), Ruhi6.2.11, Ruhi7.1.9 (last paragraph)

If the friends always waited until they were fully qualified to do any particular task, the work of the Cause would be almost at a standstill! But the very act of striving to serve, however unworthy one may feel, attracts the blessings of God and enables one to become more fitted for the task. Today the need is so great on the part of humanity to hear of the Divine Message, that the believers must plunge into the work, wherever and however they can, heedless of their own shortcomings, but ever heedful of the crying need of their fellow-men to hear of the teachings in their darkest hour of travail. COC#1952, Ruhi6.2.19 (4 May 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Scatter throughout the length and breadth of this land, and, with steadfast feet and sanctified hearts, prepare the way for His coming. Heed not your weaknesses and frailty; fix your gaze upon the invincible power of the Lord, your God, the Almighty. Has He not, in past days, caused Abraham, in spite of His seeming helplessness, to triumph over the forces of Nimrod? Has He not enabled Moses, whose staff was His only companion, to vanquish Pharaoh and his hosts? Has He not established the ascendancy of Jesus, poor and lowly as He was in the eyes of men, over the combined forces of the Jewish people? Has He not subjected the barbarous and militant tribes of Arabia to the holy and transforming discipline of Muhammad, His Prophet? Arise in His name, put your trust wholly in Him, and be assured of ultimate victory. DB.093 (The Bab)

Do not feel discouraged if your labours do not always yield an abundant fruitage. For a quick and rapidly-won success is not always the best and the most lasting. The harder you strive to attain your goal, the greater will be the confirmations of Baha'u'llah, and the more certain you can feel to attain success. Be cheerful, therefore, and exert yourself with full faith and confidence. For Baha'u'llah has promised His Divine assistance to every one who arises with a pure and detached heart to spread His Holy Word, even though he may be bereft of every human knowledge and capacity, and notwithstanding the forces of darkness and of opposition which may be arrayed against him. The goal is clear, the path safe and certain, and the assurances of Baha'u'llah as to the eventual success of our efforts quite emphatic. Let us keep firm, and whole-heartedly carry on the great work which He has entrusted into our hands. UD.436, COC#1947 (3 Feb. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

At all times we must look at the greatness of the Cause, and remember that Baha'u'llah will assist all who arise in His service. When we look at ourselves, we are sure to feel discouraged by our shortcomings and insignificance! COC#1977 (12 Dec. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

You should never look at your own limitations, much less allow them to deter you from promoting the Message. For the believers ... are after all but mere channels through which God carries His message to mankind. They are instruments whereby He communicates His will to his people. The friends, therefore, must cease looking at their own deficiencies in a way that would kill in them the spirit of initiative and of service. (18 Mar. 1934 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Each one of us, if we look into our failures, is sure to feel unworthy and despondent, and this feeling only frustrates our constructive efforts and wastes time. The thing for us to focus on is the glory of the Cause and the Power of Baha'u'llah which can make of a mere drop a surging sea! COC#1715 (13 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
