



Know that the order and perfection of the universe require that existence should appear in countless forms. Created things cannot therefore be realized in a single degree, station, manner, kind, or species: Differences of degree, distinctions in form, and a multiplicity of kinds and species are inevitable. So there must necessarily be mineral, vegetable, animal, and human kingdoms; for through man alone the world of existence could not be adequately arranged, adorned, organized, and perfected. By the same token, with the animals, plants, or minerals alone, this world would not possess such a wondrous appearance, sound arrangement, and subtle adornment: There must be differences of degrees and stations, of kinds and species, for existence to shine forth with the utmost perfection. SAQ#32.2 (was SAQ.129)

There is no doubt that the completeness seen in each and every thing arises, by divine creation, from the component elements, their appropriate combination, their proportionate measure, the manner of their composition, and the influence of other created things. For all beings are linked together like a chain; and mutual aid, assistance, and interaction are among their intrinsic properties and are the cause of their formation, development, and growth. It is established through numerous proofs and arguments that every single thing has an effect and influence upon every other, either independently or through a causal chain. SAQ#46.6 (was SAQ.178-179)

We must know, then, what each one of the great existent things was in the beginning. There is no doubt that initially there was a single origin: There cannot have been two origins. For the origin of all numbers is one and not two; the number two is itself in need of an origin. It is therefore evident that originally matter was one, and that one matter appeared in a different form in each element. Thus various forms appeared, and as they appeared, they each assumed an independent form and became a specific element. But this distinction attained its full completion and realization only after a very long time. Then these elements were composed, arranged, and combined in infinite forms; in other words, from the composition and combination of these elements countless beings appeared.... Briefly, we have said that from the composition of the elements; from their combination, manner, and proportion; and from their interaction with other beings countless forms and realities and innumerable beings have come to exist.... It is therefore evident that the original matter, which is like unto the embryo, initially took the form of composed and combined elements, and that composition gradually grew and developed over a myriad ages and centuries, passing from one shape and form to another until, through the consummate wisdom of God, it appeared with such completeness, order, arrangement, and soundness. SAQ#47.4-8 (was SAQ.181-183)

By nature is meant those inherent properties and necessary relations derived from the realities of things. And these realities of things, though in the utmost diversity, are yet intimately connected one with the other. For these diverse realities an all-unifying agency is needed that shall link them all one to the other. Forel.13

It is clear that human realities differ one from another, that opinions and perceptions vary, and that this divergence of thoughts, opinions, understandings, and sentiments among individuals is an essential requirement. For differences of degree in creation are among the essential requirements of existence, which is resolved into countless forms. We stand therefore in need of a universal power which can prevail over the thoughts, opinions, and sentiments of all, which can annul these divisions and bring all souls under the sway of the principle of the oneness of humanity. And it is clear and evident that the greatest power in the human world is the love of God. SAQ#84.4 (was SAQ.301)

Some define existence as the expression of reality or being and nonexistence as nonbeing, imagining that death is annihilation. This is a mistaken idea, for total annihilation is an impossibility. At most, composition is ever subject to decomposition or disintegration - that is to say, existence implies the grouping of material elements in a form or body, and nonexistence is simply the decomposing of these groupings. This is the law of creation in its endless forms and infinite variety of expression.  PUP.087

...differences are of two kinds. One is the cause of annihilation and is like the antipathy existing among warring nations... The other kind which is a token of diversity is the essence of perfection and the cause of the appearance of the bestowals of the Most Glorious Lord.... This diversity, this difference is like the naturally created dissimilarity and variety of the limbs and organs of the human body, for each one contributeth to the beauty, efficiency and perfection of the whole. When these different limbs and organs come under the influence of man's sovereign soul, and the soul's power pervadeth the limbs and members, veins and arteries of the body, then difference reinforceth harmony, diversity strengtheneth love, and multiplicity is the greatest factor for coordination. SWAB#225 p291

If we study the forms of existence in the material universe, we find that all created things are the result of composition. Material elements have grouped together in infinite variety and endless forms. Each organism is a compound; each object is an expression of elemental affinity. PUP.056

This variety in forms and colorings which is manifest in all the kingdoms is according to creative wisdom and has a divine purpose. PUP.113

...the forms and organisms of phenomenal being and existence in each of the kingdoms of the universe are myriad and numberless.... there are no repetitions in nature, and the augmentative virtue cannot be confined to any given image or shape.... therefore each individual atom of the universe has the opportunity of expressing an infinite variety of those individual virtues. PUP.285

Consider the world of created beings, how varied and diverse they are in species, yet with one sole origin. All the differences that appear are those of outward form and color. This diversity of type is apparent throughout the whole of nature. PT#15:3 p051-052

Nature manifests in various forms, but the basic element is the same.  There is unity of essence and variety of expression. ADP.062

The forms of life are infinite, therefore the transferences of this primordial unit throughout the degrees of creation are infinite. ADP.168

Know thou that the expressions of the creative hand of God throughout His limitless worlds are themselves limitless. Limitations are a characteristic of the finite, and restriction is a quality of existent things, not of the reality of existence. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:015)

...the wisdom of God necessitates diversity and distinction in the earning of livelihood. If there were no diversity there would be no order in affairs and no perfection in existence. (Abdu'l-Baha, MKT1)

For the shapes also, of man for instance, are composed of so many different elements, though that over all is one. And they are better and worse than each other, eye and finger, but they belong to one; the the whole is not worse but, because it is so, is better... Plotinus, Enn.VI.7.10

...when diverse shades of thought, temperament and character, are brought together under the power and influence of one central agency, the beauty and glory of human perfection will be revealed and made manifest. TDP.103, SWAB#225 p291




Nature is that condition or reality which outwardly is the source of the life and death, or, in other words, of the composition and decomposition, of all things. SAQ#1.1 (was SAQ.003)

I testify that no sooner had the First Word proceeded, through the potency of Thy will and purpose, out of His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips than the whole creation was revolutionized, and all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred to the depths. Through that Word the realities of all things were shaken, were divided, separated, scattered, combined and reunited, disclosing, in both the contingent world and the heavenly kingdom (`alamu'l-Mulk wa'l-Malakut), entities of a new creation, and revealing, in the unseen realms (`alamu'l-Jabarut ... wa `alamu'l­Lahut), the signs and tokens of Thy unity and oneness (Wahidiyih ... wa Ahadiyih). PM#178 p295-296

All created beings are dependent upon peace and coordination, for every contingent and phenomenal being is a composition of distinct elements. PUP.098

...all creatures are eaters and eaten, and the very fabric of life is reared upon this fact. Were it not so, the ties that interlace all created things within the universe would be unravelled. SWAB#137 p157

...consider the phenomenon of composition and decomposition, of existence and non-existence. Every created thing in the contingent world is made up of many and varied atoms, and its existence is dependent on the composition of these. In other words, through the divine creative power a conjunction of simple elements taketh place so that from this composition a distinct organism is produced. The existence of all things is based upon this principle. But when the order is deranged, decomposition is produced and disintegration setteth in, then that thing ceaseth to exist. That is, the annihilation of all things is caused by decomposition and disintegration. Therefore attraction and composition between the various elements is the means of life, and discord, decomposition and division produce death. SWAB#225 p289-290

Briefly, we have said that from the composition of the elements; from their combination, manner, and proportion; and from their interaction with other beings countless forms and realities and innumerable beings have come to exist. SAQ#47.6 (was SAQ.181)

If the atoms which compose the kingdom of the minerals were without affinity for each other, the earth would never have been formed, the universe could not have been created.  Because they have affinity for each other, the power of life is able to manifest itself, and the organisms of the phenomenal world become possible. PUP.004

According to divine philosophy there are two important and universal conditions in the world of material phenomena:  one which concerns life, the other concerning death; one relative to existence, the other nonexistence; one manifest in composition, the other in decomposition. PUP.087

Science teaches us that all forms of creation are the result of composition; for example, certain single atoms are brought together through the inherent law of affinity and the result is the human being. ADP.104

...there is, as we know, a power that composes and a power that decomposes. The world of existence is constantly revolving through the changes of building up and tearing down.... As by the will of God the power of composition exists, also by the will of God the power of decomposition exists. These two are expressed in scripture by 'Israfil, the angel who gives life to men, and the Angel of Death who takes it away. The first is the power of composition or attraction, the other the power of decomposition. They are not angels. (Daily Lessons Received at Akka, pp. 43-44)

It [the world of creation] calls for change and transformation. Without change there can be no composition or development. Change and transformation, decomposition and composition produce opposites. (Mahmud's Diary, 4 May 1912, p. 79)

...everything is the result of composition of many single atoms which through the law of affiliation have adhered and according to the shape, order and positions of these atoms, a given being steps forth into the court of objectivity. ADP.167

If we study the forms of existence in the material universe, we find that all created things are the result of composition. Material elements have grouped together in infinite variety and endless forms. Each organism is a compound; each object is an expression of elemental affinity. PUP.056

It is evident that each material organism is an aggregate expression of single and simple elements, and a given cellular element or atom has its coursings or journeyings through various and myriad stages of life.... each phenomena is the expression in degree of all other phenomena. The difference is one of successive transferrences and the period of time involved in evolutionary process. PUP.349

So it is with regard to the universe and its corruption, existence and non-existence. Every contingent being is made up of different and numerous elements and the existence of everything is a result of composition. That is to say, when between simple elements a composition takes place, a being arises; the creation of beings comes about in this way. And when that composition is upset, it is followed by decomposition, the elements disintegrate, and that being becomes annihilated That is to say, the annihilation of everything consists in the decomposition and the separation of elements. (Tablet to the Hague, BWF.295)




...in the sensible world the divine appearances are not repeated, for no created thing can be identical with another in every way. The sign of Divine Unity is present and visible in all things.... Now, as the proof of the Divine Unity exists within all things, and the oneness and singleness of God is visible in the realities of all beings, the recurrence of the same divine appearance is in no wise possible. SAQ#81.6 (was SAQ.283)

...the forms and organisms of phenomenal being and existence in each of the kingdoms of the universe are myriad and numberless.... there are no repetitions in nature, and the augmentative virtue cannot be confined to any given image or shape.... therefore each individual atom of the universe has the opportunity of expressing an infinite variety of those individual virtues. PUP.285




Nature manifests in various forms, but the basic element is the same.  There is unity of essence and variety of expression. ADP.062
