



Those souls who have the capacity and ability to receive the outpourings of the Kingdom and the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, they become attracted through one word... No sooner is the oil touched by the fire than it is ignited, but the heat of the fire will not make any effect upon the black stone. BWF.364-365 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

...the capacity for faith, and the deserving it, can be so great, that without the communication of a single word the light shines forth... ('Abdu'l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, p.47)

Know thou that the Messianic Spirit and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit is always manifest, but capacity and ability (to receive it) is more in some and less in others. TAB.193

...we must develop capacity and divine susceptibility in order that the merciful bounty of the Sun of Truth intended for this age and time in which we are living may reflect from us as light from pure crystals. PUP.023-024

As long as we lack susceptibility, the beauties and bounties of God cannot penetrate... PUP.148-149

Unless capacity is developed, the summons of the Kingdom cannot reach the ear, the lights of the Sun of Truth will not be observed... PUP.149

Although the bestowal is great and the grace is glorious, yet capacity and readiness are requisite.  Without capacity and readiness the divine bounty will not become manifest and evident. PUP.195

...it is nearness to God; it is capacity to receive the bounties of the ancient Lord. When man advances to this station, he attains the second birth. PUP.304

...he is distinguished from the animal by ... capacity to receive the bestowals of Divinity....  Christ has interpreted this station as the second birth... PUP.332

...the capacity is necessary for the descent of rain, and preparation of soil is of great importance... TAB.210

Show forth thy capacity and merit, for without capacity the Gift doth not become manifest... TAB.297

...complete capacity and ability is the cause of the appearance of the divine gifts... TAB.639

This gift is very great but complete and sufficient capacity is necessary... TAB.728

The beloved of God must do that whereby they can attain capacity, in order that the Bounties of the Kingdom may become apparent in them! (Pilgrim notes of Charles and Mariam Haney, 1909, A Heavenly Feast, p. 13)

If there should be no capacity nor ability the abundance and bounties have no effect. (Pilgrim notes of Arthur Agnew, Table Talks at Acca, by Abdul-Baha Abbas, 1907, pp. 16-17)

When the soil is plowed and the seed scattered in it, a capacity is created which attracts the shower of the mercy of God. So I hope that you will grow day by day in capacity, so as to receive more and more of the divine blessings. This capacity comes but by being detached from the world and by being attracted to God with a hearty inclination for His Cause. (Pilgrim notes of George Winterburn, Table Talks with Abdul-Baha in February 1904, pp. 22-23)

As the soul grows, its capacity increases. Capacity is the measure of development. Love is the evidence of capacity. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of 'Akka, p.42)

As to those souls who are born into this life as ethereal and radiant entities and yet, on account of their handicaps and trials, are deprived of great and real advantages, and leave the world without having lived to the full--certainly this is a cause for grieving. This is the reason why the universal Manifestations of God unveil Their countenances to man, and endure every calamity and sore affliction, and lay down Their lives as a ransom; it is to make these very people, the ready ones, the ones who have capacity, to become dawning points of light, and to bestow upon them the life that fadeth never. SWAB#031 p064-065

Thou didst ask whether, at the advent of the Kingdom of God, every soul was saved. The Sun of Truth hath shone forth in splendour over all the world, and its luminous rising is man's salvation and his eternal life--but only he is of the saved who hath opened wide the eye of his discernment and beheld that glory. SWAB#160 p191




The capacity for achieving extraordinary and praiseworthy progress is bestowed by Them through the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and heavenly civilization is not possible of attainment or accomplishment otherwise. PUP.375

Regarding one's lack of capacity and one's undeserving on the Day of Resurrection, this does not cause one to be shut out from gifts and bounties; for this is not the Day of Justice but the Day of Grace, while justice is allotting to each whatever is his due. Then look thou not at the degree of thy capacity, look thou at the boundless favour of Baha'u'llah; all-encompassing is His bounty, and consummate His grace. SWAB#153 p179, Ruhi6.2.19 (last sentence)

No capacity is limited when led by the Spirit of God! The earth of itself has no properties of life, it is barren and dry, until fertilized by the sun and the rain; still the earth need not bewail its own limitations. May you be given life! PT#51:13-14 p166

Have compassion and forgive us; bestow upon us such capacity and receptiveness that we may be worthy of Thy favors PUP.149-150

I beseech the Lord of Hosts ... to confirm thee through His Holy Spirit, to give thee capacity to partake of the lights of knowledge... TAB.166

I ask, through His bounty, to grant thee readiness and capacity... TAB.696

...we must develop capacity in order that the signs of the mercy of the Lord may be revealed in us.... Therefore, we must endeavor always, cry, supplicate and invoke the Kingdom of God to grant us full capacity in order that the bestowals of God may become revealed and manifest in us. PUP.195-196

Know that the blessings of the Kingdom of Abha are not dependent upon the capacity and the worthiness of any one; the blessings themselves are the worthiness. BSC#958 p.496




Know that the blessings of the Kingdom of Abha are not dependent upon the capacity and the worthiness of any one; the blessings themselves are the worthiness. BSC#958 p.496
