



To maintain that the testimony of Providence was incomplete, that it hath therefore been the cause of the denial of the people, is but open blasphemy.... Nay, the manifold bounties of the Lord of all beings have, at all times, through the Manifestations of His divine Essence, encompassed the earth and all that dwell therein. Not for a moment hath His grace been withheld, nor have the showers of His loving-kindness ceased to rain upon mankind. KI#014 p013-014; GWB#013 p018

The third station is that of divine manifestation and heavenly splendour, which is the Word of God, the everlasting Grace, and the Holy Spirit. This station has neither beginning nor end... SAQ#38.4 (was SAQ.152)

These names and attributes of Divinity are eternal and not accidental. This is a very subtle point which demands close attention. Their existence is proved and necessitated by the appearance of phenomena.... the divine names and attributes presuppose the existence of phenomena implied by those names and attributes.... If we try to conceive of a time when creation was nonexistent, when there were no subjects or creatures under divine dominion and control, Divinity itself would disappear; there would be a cessation of the bounty of God... The sovereignty of God is eternal. There has been no beginning; there will be no end. PUP.271-272

As the divine entity is eternal, the divine attributes are coexistent, co-eternal. The divine bestowals are, therefore, without beginning... PUP.159

...the names of God are actually and forever existing and not potential.... the divine names emanate from the eternal attributes of Divinity. PUP.219

The portals of Thy grace have throughout eternity been open, and the means of access unto Thy Presence made available, unto all created things, and the revelations of Thy matchless Beauty have at all times been imprinted upon the realities of all beings, visible and invisible. GWB#026 p063

Can one of sane mind ever seriously imagine that, in view of certain words the meaning of which he cannot comprehend, the portal of God's infinite guidance can ever be closed in the face of men?... What outpouring flood can compare with the stream of His all-embracing grace, and what blessing can excel the evidences of so great and pervasive a mercy?... from the beginning that hath no beginning the portals of Divine mercy have been flung open to the face of all created things, and the clouds of Truth will continue to the end that hath no end to rain on the soil of human capacity, reality and personality (a'yan) their favors and bounties. Such hath been God's method continued from everlasting to everlasting. GWB#027 p068-069

The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end, otherwise it would necessitate the cessation of his celestial grace. SWB.125

Never have the outpourings from the sanctuary of My bounty been cut off, nor the favors from My treasury of generosity suspended. Nay, outstretched is the hand of My all-pervading mercy, and all things are captives within the grasp of My invincible power. But this never-ending bounty and pre-existent favor descend only upon those who come under the shadow of the education of Him in whose hand is the kingdom of the entire creation... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in the Lawh-i-Nasir, translated by K. Brown)

The blessings of Baha'u'llah are a shoreless sea, and even life everlasting is only a dewdrop therefrom. The waves of that sea are continually lapping against the hearts of the friends, and from those waves there come intimations of the spirit and ardent pulsings of the soul, until the heart giveth way, and willing or not, turneth humbly in prayer unto the Kingdom of the Lord. Wherefore do all ye can to disengage your inner selves, that ye may at every moment reflect new splendours from the Sun of Truth. SWAB#162 p192-193

Never lose thy trust in God. Be thou ever hopeful, for the bounties of God never cease to flow upon man. If viewed from one perspective they seem to decrease, but from another they are full and complete. Man is under all conditions immersed in a sea of God's blessings. Therefore, be thou not hopeless under any circumstances, but rather be firm in thy hope. SWAB#178 p205, Ruhi7.1.8

This ray and this heat are permanent.  There is no cessation in the effulgence.  As long as the sun exists, the heat and light will exist, and inasmuch as eternality is a property of Divinity, this emanation is everlasting.  There is no cessation in its outpouring. PUP.059

...it is impossible for that world to become nonbeing, for it is the very genesis of God; it is in the realm of origination; it is a creational and not a subjective world, and the bounty descending upon it is continuous and permanent. Therefore, man, the highest creature of the phenomenal world, is endowed with that continuous bounty bestowed by divine generosity without cessation.... the effulgences of existence are ever present and continuous. PUP.089

As the body of the universe is continuous, indestructible, the bounties and bestowals of the divine spirit are everlasting. PUP.160

If we are of those who perceive, we realize that the bounties of God manifest themselves continuously, even as the rays of the sun unceasingly emanate from the solar center. PUP.256

...the divine bounties of the Sun of Reality are perpetual.  Its light is forever shining.  Its love is forever radiating. Its bounty never ceases. PUP.273

...the reality of Divinity is evidenced by virtue of its outpourings or bestowals.  ...it is inconceivable that the bounties of Divinity should cease, for the attributes of Divinity are ever-existent. PUP.313

...the sound reasoning mind concludes that the bounties of the Holy Spirit are continuous and that holy souls are ever the recipients of these divine emanations.  The potency of the Holy Spirit is everlasting, not temporary; for the sanctity of the Holy Spirit is its power and efficacy manifest in the spirits it quickens.... From time immemorial the divine teachings have been successively revealed, and the bounties of the Holy Spirit have ever been emanating. PUP.313

There are some who believe that the divine bounties are subject to cessation. ... This is self-evidently a mistaken idea.... if we should declare that a time may come when there will be a cessation of divine bounties, we should virtually deny the existence of Divinity.... The reality of Divinity is like an endless ocean. Revelation may be likened to the rain. Can you imagine the cessation of the rain? Ever on the face of the earth somewhere rain is pouring down. PUP.377-378

...the divine bounty by its very nature is continuous and ceaseless.  Its sun is ever shining; its cloud is every producing rain... PUP.467

God Who breathed the breath of the Holy Spirit upon His servants will breathe it upon them now and hereafter. There is no cessation to His bounty. The Divine Spirit is penetrating from eternity to eternity, for it is the bounty of God, and the bounty of God is eternal. PUP.158

A sprinkling from the unfathomed deep of His sovereign and all-pervasive Will hath, out of utter nothingness, called into being a creation which is infinite in its range and deathless in its duration. The wonders of His bounty can never cease, and the stream of His merciful grace can never be arrested. The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end. GWB#026 p061

We recognize in the manifestation of each one of them, whether outwardly or inwardly, the manifestation of none but God Himself, if ye be of those that comprehend. Every one of them is a mirror of God, reflecting naught else but His Self, His Beauty, His Might and Glory, if ye will understand. All else besides them are to be regarded as mirrors capable of reflecting the glory of these Manifestations Who are themselves the Primary Mirrors of the Divine Being, if ye be not devoid of understanding.... These Mirrors will everlastingly succeed each other, and will continue to reflect the light of the Ancient of Days. They that reflect their glory will, in like manner, continue to exist for evermore, for the Grace of God can never cease from flowing. GWB#030 p073-074, Ruhi3a.L16

The Apostles were even as Letters, and Christ was the essence of the Word Itself.... the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are continually descending, and the power of the Word will exert such an influence that the letter shall become the mirror in which the splendid Sun - the Word itself - will be reflected.... SWAB#029 p060

Oh, trust in God! for His Bounty is everlasting, and in His Blessings, for they are superb. Oh! put your faith in the Almighty, for He faileth not and His goodness endureth for ever! His Sun giveth Light continually, and the Clouds of His Mercy are full of the Waters of Compassion with which He waters the hearts of all who trust in Him. His refreshing Breeze ever carries healing in its wings to the parched souls of men! PT#34:8 p108, Ruhi7.1.8
