



...viewed from the standpoint of their oneness (tawhid) and sublime detachment (tajrid), the attributes of Godhead (rububiyyat), Divinity (uluhiyyat), Supreme Singleness (ahadiyyat), and Inmost Essence (huwiyyat), have been, and are applicable to those Essences of Being, inasmuch as they all abide on the throne of Divine Revelation, and are established upon the seat of Divine Concealment. GWB#022 p053, KI#193 p177

...the portals of divine unity (tawhid) and understanding (ma'rifat)--the essential and highest purpose in creation... KI#028 p029

That reality admits of no division, for division and multiplicity are among the characteristics of created and hence contingent things, and not accidents impinging upon the Necessary Being. SAQ#27.2 (was SAQ.113)

The one true God hath everlastingly existed, and will everlastingly continue to exist. His creation, likewise, hath had no beginning, and will have no end. All that is created, however, is preceded by a cause. This fact, in itself, establisheth, beyond the shadow of a doubt, the unity (tawhid) of the Creator. GWB#082 p162

Regard thou the one true God as One Who is apart from, and immeasurably exalted above, all created things. The whole universe reflecteth His glory, while He is Himself independent of, and transcendeth His creatures. This is the true meaning of Divine unity (tawhid). GWB#084 p166

He, verily, is one and indivisible; one in His essence, one in His attributes. Everything besides Him is as nothing when brought face to face with the resplendent revelation of but one of His names, with no more than the faintest intimation of His glory - how much less when confronted with His own Self! GWB#093 p187

He is, and hath been from everlasting, one and alone, without peer or equal, eternal in the past, eternal in the future, detached from all things, ever-abiding, unchangeable, and self-subsisting.... He, in truth, hath, throughout eternity, been one in His Essence, one in His attributes, one in His works. Any and every comparison is applicable only to His creatures, and all conceptions of association are conceptions that belong solely to those that serve Him. Immeasurably exalted is His Essence above the descriptions of His creatures. He, alone, occupieth the Seat of transcendent majesty, of supreme and inaccessible glory. The birds of men's hearts, however high they soar, can never hope to attain the heights of His unknowable Essence.... Far be it from His glory that human pen or tongue should hint at His mystery, or that human heart conceive His Essence. GWB#094 p192, GWB#094 p193

We testify that He is One in His Essence, One in His Attributes. He hath none to equal Him in the whole universe, nor any partner in all creation. ESW.098, TB.212

Similar statements such as these, which indicate the essential unity (tawhid) of those Exponents of Oneness, have also emanated from the Channels of God's immortal utterance... KI#161 p153, GWB#022 p051

...The whole universe reflecteth His glory, while He is Himself independent of, and transcendeth His creatures. This is the true meaning of Divine unity (tawhid). He Who is the Eternal Truth is the one Power Who exerciseth undisputed sovereignty over the world of being, Whose image is reflected in the mirror of the entire creation. All existence is dependent upon Him, and from Him is derived the source of the sustenance of all things. This is what is meant by Divine unity (tawhid); this is its fundamental principle.... He is a true believer in Divine unity (tawhid) who, far from confusing duality with oneness, refuseth to allow any notion of multiplicity to becloud his conception of the singleness of God.... The essence of belief in Divine unity (tawhid) consisteth in regarding Him Who is the Manifestation of God and Him Who is the invisible, the inaccessible, the unknowable Essence as one and the same. GWB#084 p166-167

...certain foolish ones ..., after having ascended into the heavens of their idle fancies, have interpreted Divine Unity (tawhid) to mean that all created things are the signs of God, and that, consequently, there is no distinction whatsoever between them. Some have even outstripped them by maintaining that these signs are peers and partners of God Himself. Gracious God! GWB#093 p187

He is really a believer in the Unity of God (tawhid) who recognizeth in each and every created thing the sign of the revelation of Him Who is the Eternal Truth, and not he who maintaineth that the creature is indistinguishable from the Creator. GWB#093 p189

How wondrous is the unity (tawhid) of the Living, the Ever-Abiding God - a unity which is exalted above all limitations, that transcendeth the comprehension (irfan) of all created things! GWB#124 p261

Thou art, verily, He Who from everlasting hath inhabited the inaccessible heights of His unity (tawhid), and will continue to remain the same for ever and ever. PM#016 p019

...They resemble the sun which no matter how often it riseth and setteth is still the one and the same sun. Whoso maketh any distinction between any of Them hath truly failed to attain the ultimate purpose, and to reach the highest goal, and hath been deprived of the mysteries of unity (tawhid) and of the lights of sanctity and oneness. PM#038 p051

After passing through the Valley of Knowledge, which is the last station of limitation, the wayfarer cometh to the First Station of Unity (tawhid) and drinketh from the cup of oneness (tajrid), and gazeth upon the manifestations of singleness (tafrid). In this station he pierceth the veils of plurality, fleeth the realms of the flesh, and ascendeth unto the heaven of unity (wahdat). With the ear of God he heareth; with the eye of God he beholdeth the mysteries of divine creation. CDB#2.35 (was SV.17)

That which the aforesaid persons have mentioned concerning the stations of Divine Unity (maqamat-i-tawhid) will conduce in no small measure to idleness and vain imaginings. These mortal men have evidently set aside the differences of station and have come to regard themselves as God, while God is immeasurably exalted above all things. TB.060

Whoso accepteth and recognizeth that which is written down at this moment by the Pen of Glory is indeed reckoned in the Book of God, the Lord of the beginning and the end, among the exponents of divine unity (tawhid), they that uphold the concept of the oneness of God (tajrid). TB.105

The divine Essence (dhat), sanctified from every comparison and likeness, is established in the Prophet, and God's inmost Reality, exalted above any peer or partner, is manifest in Him. This is the station of true unity (tawhid) and of veritable singleness (tafrid). The followers of the previous Dispensation grievously failed to acquire an adequate understanding of this station. TB.124 [Ali-Kuli Khan's translation: "That the Divine Essence is sanctified beyond having any equal or peer, and that His Being is purified above having any associate or like, is manifest and has been proven to your Honor"]

In the Word of God there is still another unity - the oneness of the Manifestations of God.... This is a unity divine, heavenly, radiant, merciful - the one reality appearing in its successive Manifestations.... There is also the divine unity or entity, which is sanctified above all concept of humanity. It cannot be comprehended nor conceived because it is infinite reality and cannot become finite. Human minds are incapable of surrounding that reality because all thoughts and conceptions of it are finite, intellectual creations and not the reality of Divine Being which alone knows itself. For example, if we form a conception of Divinity as a living, almighty, self-subsisting, eternal Being, this is only a concept apprehended by a human intellectual reality. It would not be the outward, visible reality, which is beyond the power of human mind to conceive or encompass. We ourselves have an external, visible entity; but even our concept of it is the product of our own brain and limited comprehension. The reality of Divinity is sanctified above this degree of knowing and realization. It has ever been hidden and secluded in its own holiness and sanctity above our comprehending. Although it transcends our realization, its lights, bestowals, traces and virtues have become manifest in the realities of the Prophets, even as the sun becomes resplendent in various mirrors. These holy realities are as reflectors, and the reality of Divinity is as the sun, which, although it is reflected from the mirrors, and its virtues and perfections become resplendent therein, does not stoop from its own station of majesty and glory and seek abode in the mirrors; it remains in its heaven of sanctity. At most it is this: that its lights become manifest and evident in its mirrors or manifestations. Therefore, its bounty proceeding from them is one bounty, but the recipients of that bounty are many. This is the unity of God; this is oneness -- unity of Divinity, holy above ascent or descent, embodiment, comprehension or idealization -- divine unity. The Prophets are its mirrors; its lights are revealed through Them; its virtues become resplendent in Them, but the Sun of Reality never descends from its own highest point and station. This is unity, oneness, sanctity; this is glorification whereby we praise and adore God. PUP.192-193

Two stations can be observed in the Divine Unity (tawhid): Existential Oneness (tawhid-i-wujudi), and this is that [station] wherein they negate everything with a 'no' and affirm the Absolute Reality. This means that they do not acknowledge the existence of anything other than the Absolute Reality, in the sense that all things, when placed next to the manifestation and remembrance of It, have been and will continue to be absolute nothingness (fana-yi mahd).... [The second station in Divine Unity,] Manifestational Oneness (tawhid-i shuhudi), is that [station] where the signs of the Primal Divine Unity, the manifestations of Eternity, and the effulgences of the light of Singleness can be observed in all things. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah, Iqtidarat, p. 107)

We, of the Orient, distinguish between the wholly transcendent Primal Deity, in the Christian sense God the Father, and the Logos (Gospel of St. John), in the Christian sense God the Son, also called Demiurge (in the sense of the Greek philosophers), also called the Primal Will by His Holiness the Bab and designated by the Sufis by the name of tawhid = oneness. (Fallscheer notes, p. 20)

Thou hast asked concerning the fundamentals of religion and its ordinances: Know thou that first and foremost in religion is the knowledge (ma'rifat) of God. This attaineth its consummation in the recognition of His divine unity (tawhid), which in turn reacheth its fulfilment in acclaiming that His hallowed and exalted Sanctuary, the Seat of His transcendent majesty, is sanctified from all attributes. And know thou that in this world of being the knowledge of God can never be attained save through the knowledge of Him Who is the Dayspring of divine Reality. SWB.117; GOH.244-245 (From the Dala'il-i-Sab'iy-i-Farsi. Cf. AvK1.014)

Know thou that the essence of religion is the knowledge of God. The perfection of this knowledge is belief in His unity (tawhid). The perfection of this belief is the negation of all names and attributes before His sanctified Essence. And the perfection of this negation is to immerse oneself with certain knowledge in the Ocean of oneness (ahadiyyah) and to witness one's attainment to its bounty. And the truth underlying all these stages is the Sign of God alone, whereby the existence of the Lord of might and glory is recognized and known with certitude. (The Bab, provisional translation, in the Sahifiy-i-'Adliyyih, GOH.230, AvK1.014)

Beware, O believers in the Unity of God (tawhid), lest ye be tempted to make any distinction between any of the Manifestations of His Cause, or to discriminate against the signs that have accompanied and proclaimed their Revelation. This indeed is the true meaning of Divine Unity (tawhid), if ye be of them that apprehend and believe this truth. GWB#024 p059

It behoveth thee to consecrate thyself to the Will of God. Whatsoever hath been revealed in His Tablets is but a reflection of His Will. So complete must be thy consecration, that every trace of worldly desire will be washed from thine heart. This is the meaning of true unity (tawhid-i-haqiqi). GWB#160 p338

By belief in the unity of God it is not meant that two are to be seen as one: this is the essence of godlessness and of joining partners with God. Nay, by belief in the unity of God is meant that God is to be considered in every respect to be one and sanctified above all names and comparisons; and that all else save Him have been raised up by Him and have their being through His command. And as for those who have not quaffed from this pure stream which floweth from the presence of the Manifestation, they have no existence at all in the sight of God, let alone that they should be mentioned among those who espouse the unity of God. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.175-176)
