



...the Revelation of God may be likened to the sun. No matter how innumerable its risings, there is but one sun, and upon it depends the life of all things. It is clear and evident that the object of all preceding Dispensations hath been to pave the way for the advent of Muhammad, the Apostle of God. These, including the Muhammadan Dispensation, have had, in their turn, as their objective the Revelation proclaimed by the Qa'im. The purpose underlying this Revelation, as well as those that preceded it, has, in like manner, been to announce the advent of the Faith of Him Whom God will make manifest. And this Faith--the Faith of Him Whom God will make manifest--in its turn, together with all the Revelations gone before it, have as their object the Manifestation destined to succeed it. And the latter, no less than all the Revelations preceding it, prepare the way for the Revelation which is yet to follow. The process of the rise and setting of the Sun of Truth will thus indefinitely continue--a process that hath had no beginning and will have no end. SWB.105-106; WOB.117

In connection with the Manifestations destined to follow the Revelation of Baha'u'llah, 'Abdu'l-Baha makes this definite and weighty declaration: "Concerning the Manifestations that will come down in the future 'in the shadows of the clouds,' know verily that in so far as their relation to the source of their inspiration is concerned they are under the shadow of the Ancient Beauty. In their relation, however, to the age in which they appear, each and every one of them 'doeth whatsoever He willeth.' WOB.111 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

"Centuries, nay ages, must pass away," He affirms in one of His earliest Tablets, "ere the Day-Star of Truth shineth again in its mid-summer splendor, or appeareth once more in the radiance of its vernal glory... How thankful must we be for having been made in this Day the recipients of so overwhelming a favor!" WOB.110 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

"I am not apprehensive for My own self," Baha'u'llah still more explicitly declares, "My fears are for Him Who will be sent down unto you after Me--Him Who will be invested with great sovereignty and mighty dominion." And again He writes in the Suratu'l-Haykal: "By those words which I have revealed, Myself is not intended, but rather He Who will come after Me. To it is witness God, the All-Knowing." "Deal not with Him," He adds, "as ye have dealt with Me." WOB.117

With reference to infallibility, you quote from "Gleanings from the Writings of Baha'u'llah" that "trials and tribulations have, from time immemorial, been the lot of the chosen Ones of God...", and express concern that this implies that the Universal House of Justice will not recognize the next Manifestation of God. There are several statements in the Sacred Scriptures of our Faith which are related to this general subject, and one in particular is found in "The Dispensation of Baha'u'llah", ("The World Order of Baha'u'llah", p. 117) as follows: "My fears are for Him Who will be sent down unto you after Me Him Who will be invested with great sovereignty and mighty dominion". When a National Assembly wrote to the Guardian, asking about this reference, the following reply was sent on his behalf. "...this refers to the Manifestation Who is to come after a thousand or more years, Who like all previous Messengers of God will be subjected to persecutions, but will eventually triumph over them. For men of ill will have been and will always continue to be in this world, unless mankind reaches a state of complete and absolute perfection a condition which is not only improbable but actually impossible to attain." As you see, the persecutions to which the next Manifestation will be subjected will be carried out, according to the above statement, by "men of ill will" who, alas, "will continue to be in this world". There is nothing in the Writings to support the view that the opposition or persecution will be instigated or inflicted by the Universal House of Justice. You are aware, of course, that one of the reasons for the appearance of a new Manifestation of God is to bring forth a spiritual renewal, as the former Dispensation would have passed through its stages of growth and reached its zenith. You can be sure that the Supreme Institution of the Faith, "under the care and protection of the Abha Beauty, under the shelter and unerring guidance of His Holiness, the Exalted One", will exert every effort to recognize, when the time is ripe, the reality of the new Manifestation, and lead men to Him. How the majority of the people at that time will respond is a truth locked up in the treasury of God's knowledge. (June 8, 1997 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, https://bahai-library.com/uhj_recognition_next_manifestation)

Ere this Manifestation, Verses alone had been the proof unto all, since in all the previous Scriptures We had sent down this decree. Although in the present Dispensation all mighty evidences, perspicuous proofs, wondrous Verses, prodigious revelations, and divine stations have been made manifest - all these as a bounty from Our presence unto the entire creation - yet hereafter the matter rests in the hand of God: It is for Him to determine what to assign as proof in the succeeding Manifestations.... For in this Manifestation, God - glorified be His mention - hath willed that most of the believers and the sincere ones should give utterance to Verses; whence in the next Dispensation We shall ordain a different matter as proof, lest all who speak in this fashion should show pride towards God, the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling, the Almighty.... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA4.092-094, quoted here)

Abraham, on Him be peace, made a covenant concerning Moses and gave the glad-tidings of His coming. Moses made a covenant concerning the promised Christ, and announced the good news of His advent to the world. Christ made a covenant concerning the Paraclete and gave the tidings of His coming. The Prophet Muhammad made a covenant concerning the Bab, and the Bab was the One promised by Muhammad, for Muhammad gave the tidings of His coming. The Bab made a Covenant concerning the Blessed Beauty, Baha'u'llah, and gave the glad-tidings of His coming for the Blessed Beauty was the One promised by the Bab. Baha'u'llah made a covenant concerning a Promised One Who will become manifest after one thousand or thousands of years. That Manifestation is Baha'u'llah's Promised One, and will appear after a thousand or thousands of years. BWF.358, COC#217 (Abdu'l-Baha)

As to the meaning of the quotation 'My fears are for Him Who will be sent down unto you after Me': this refers to the Manifestation Who is to come after a thousand or more years, Who like all previous Messengers of God will be subjected to persecutions, but will eventually triumph over them. For men of ill-will have been and will always continue to be in this world, unless mankind reaches a state of complete and absolute perfection -- a condition which is not only improbable but actually impossible to attain. The fundamental difference, however, between this Dispensation and all previous ones is this, that in this Revelation the possibility of permanent schism between the followers of the Prophet has been prevented through the direct and explicit instructions providing for the necessary instruments designed to maintain the organic unity of the body of the faithful. LG#1562 (1 Dec. 1934 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Concerning your question relative to the duration of the Baha'i Dispensation. There is no contradiction between Baha'u'llah's statement in the Iqan about the renewal of the City of God once every 1000 years, and that of the Guardian in the 'Dispensation' to the effect that the Baha'i cycle will extend over a period of at least 500,000 years. The apparent contradictions is due to the confusion of the terms cycle and dispensation. For while the Dispensation of Baha'u'llah will last for at least one thousand years, His cycle will extend still farther to at least 500,000.... After Baha'u'llah many Prophets will, no doubt, appear, but they will be all under His shadow. Although they may abrogate the laws of the Dispensation, in accordance with the needs and requirements of the age in which they appear, they nevertheless draw their spiritual force from this mighty Revelation. The Faith of Baha'u'llah constitutes, indeed, the stage of maturity in the development of mankind. His appearance has released such spiritual forces which will continue to animate, for many long years to come, the world in its development. Whatever progress may be achieved in the later ages-after the unification of the whole human race is achieved -- will be but improvements in the machinery of the world. For the machinery itself has already been created by Baha'u'llah. The task of continually improving and perfecting this machinery is one which later Prophets will be called upon to achieve. They will move and work within the orbit of Baha'i cycle. LG#1565, LG#1561 (14 Nov. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The last twenty-three years of that same century [the first Baha'i century] coincided with the first epoch of the second, the Iron and Formative, Age of the Dispensation of Baha'u'llah -- the first of a series of epochs which must precede the inception of the last and Golden Age of that Dispensation -- a Dispensation which, as the Author of the Faith has Himself categorically asserted, must extend over a period of no less than one thousand years, and which will constitute the first stage in a series of Dispensations, to be established by future Manifestations, all deriving their inspiration from the Author of the Baha'i Revelation, and destined to last, in their aggregate, no less than five thousand centuries. CF.005 (5 Jun. 1947)

The bud, the flower, the fruit are only symbols to convey to us the sense of the progress being made by man in receiving ever fuller Revelations from God. In spite of the vast spiritual significance of what Baha'u'llah has brought to the world we humans have infinite progress to make in the future. Future Prophets will bring us new laws suitable to our state of development and continue to educate us on this planet, but they will be under the shadow of Baha'u'llah for five thousand centuries. HE.071 (9 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

This final and crowning stage in the evolution of the plan wrought by God Himself for humanity will, in turn, prove to be the signal for the birth of a world civilization, incomparable in its range, its character and potency, in the history of mankind -- a civilization which posterity will, with one voice, acclaim as the fairest fruit of the Golden Age of the Dispensation of Baha'u'llah, and whose rich harvest will be garnered during future dispensations destined to succeed one another in the course of the five thousand century Baha'i Cycle. MBW.155-156, Ruhi5.1.17 (4 May 1953 from Shoghi Effendi)

The provenance, the authority, the duties, the sphere of action of the Universal House of Justice all derive from the revealed Word of Baha'u'llah which, together with the interpretations and expositions of the Centre of the Covenant and of the Guardian of the Cause -- who, after 'Abdu'l-Baha, is the sole authority in the interpretation of Baha'i Scripture -- constitute the binding terms of reference of the Universal House of Justice and are its bedrock foundation. The authority of these Texts is absolute and immutable until such time as Almighty God shall reveal His new Manifestation to Whom will belong all authority and power. CUHJ.04

Whosoever awaiteth a Manifestation after Me is indeed among the lost. And He who shall be manifest after the thousand years will speak in My Name. And He who shall come in the time of the Mustaghath will bear witness unto Me, and proclaim that I am God, the Lord of heaven and earth. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, PA00225; see also translation by Nima Hazini)

Briefly, our claim is that a universal cycle in the world of existence comprises a vast span of time and countless ages and epochs. In such a cycle, the Manifestations of God shine forth in the visible realm until a universal and supreme Manifestation makes the world the focal centre of divine splendours and, through His revelation, brings it to the stage of maturity. The duration of the cycle He ushers in is very long indeed. Other Manifestations will arise in the course of that cycle under His shadow and will renew, according to the needs of the time, certain laws pertaining to material affairs and transactions, but They will remain under His shadow. We are in the cycle which began with Adam and whose universal Manifestation is Baha'u'llah. SAQ#41.5




Once in about a thousand years shall this City be renewed and re-adorned.... That City is none other than the Word of God revealed in every age and dispensation. KI#218-219 p199, GWB#125 p269-270

...any individual who, before the expiry of a full thousand years--years known and clearly established by common usage and requiring no interpretation--should lay claim to a Revelation direct from God, even though he should reveal certain signs, that man is assuredly false and an impostor.... It is possible, however, that after the completion of a full thousand years, certain Holy Beings will be empowered to deliver a Revelation: this, however, will not be through a Universal Manifestation. Wherefore every day of the cycle of the Blessed Beauty is in reality equal to one year, and every year of it is equal to a thousand years.... ...prior to the completion of a thousand years, no individual may presume to breathe a word. All must consider themselves to be of the order of subjects, submissive and obedient to the commandments of God and the laws of the House of Justice. Should any deviate by so much as a needle's point from the decrees of the Universal House of Justice, or falter in his compliance therewith, then is he of the outcast and rejected. As to the cycle of the Blessed Beauty -- the times of the Greatest Name -- this is not limited to a thousand or two thousand years.... When it is said that the period of a thousand years beginneth with the Manifestation of the Blessed Beauty and every day thereof is a thousand years, the intent is a reference to the cycle of the Blessed Beauty, which in this context will extend over many ages into the unborn reaches of time. SWAB#033 p067-068

Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation direct from God, ere the expiration of a full thousand years, such a man is assuredly a lying impostor. We pray God that He may graciously assist him to retract and repudiate such claim.... Whosoever interpreteth this verse otherwise than its obvious meaning is deprived of the Spirit of God and of His mercy which encompasseth all created things. KA#037, GWB#166 p346

O Pen! Write thou upon the Tablet, and announce unto the people, that all the Revelations have attained their final consummation in this shining and resplendent Revelation; and that whosoever advanceth a claim to this exalted, mighty and glorious station prior to the expiration of one thousand years, such a one hath verily uttered a slander against God and been accounted with the stirrers of sedition. For through such claims the Cause of Cause will be subverted and its stability among the believing souls undermined. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Nuqtatu'l-Kaf, introduction, p. 72 ayn vav; see Kitab-i-Badi p. 197)

Should a man appear ere the lapse of a full thousand years -- each year consisting of twelve months according to the Qur'an, and of nineteen months of nineteen days each, according to the Bayan -- and if such a man reveal to your eyes all the signs of God, unhesitatingly reject him! WOB.132 (Baha'u'llah)

On the first day that the Ancient Beauty ascended His Most Great Throne in the garden named Ridvan, the Tongue of Glory gave utterance to three blessed words. First, that in this Revelation the law of the sword hath been annulled. Second, that ere the expiration of one thousand years whosoever advanceth a prophetic claim is false. By "year" a full year is intended, and no exegesis or interpretation is permitted in this matter. And third, that at that very hour God, exalted be His Glory, shed the full splendour of all His names upon all creation. The following verse was revealed subsequently, but He indicated that it should occupy the same station as the other three: that when the name of anyone, whether living or dead, is mentioned in His presence, that soul hath verily attained to the mention of the pre-existent King. Blessed are they that attain thereto! DOR#9.1-2

First, regarding Baha'u'llah's statement in the Iqan concerning the renewal of the "City of God" once every thousand years; this passage should not be taken too literally; what is meant is about and within the range of one thousand years, a few hundred years more or less make no much difference. God, of course, does not reveal His message with the same mathematical exactness as the scientist applies the principles and laws of science. It is unfair to attribute to Baha'u'llah things which He never and could have never meant. (20 Dec. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Thou hast asked concerning the blessed verse "From the heaven to the earth He ordereth all things, and hereafter shall they come up to Him on a day whose length shall be a thousand of such years as ye reckon." By this "day" is meant the Day of the Great Resurrection, the Day of Judgement, for on that Day there shall appear such signs and events, such splendours and occurrences, marvels and wonders, truths and mysteries, precepts and writings, that the revelation of those splendours and signs cannot be contained even in fifty thousand years. Moreover, the precepts and laws, and the writings, teachings, and manifold bounties associated with that Day, which is none other than the "appointed time of a known day", shall remain valid and binding for a full thousand years, nay for five hundred thousand years. Such a span of time is merely an approximation that alludeth to ages and centuries. And on that appointed Day, the outpourings of divine grace shall visibly descend from the kingdom of mercy and the heaven of oneness. AB00355, LOTW#76

Baha'u'llah made a covenant concerning a Promised One Who will become manifest after one thousand or thousands of years. LOTW#61.1

...during the cycle of the Blessed Perfection [Baha'u'llah]-May My life be a sacrifice to His believers-all are beneath His shadow. He is the Unique and Peerless One till the next Manifestation. It is, however, not definite that it will be 1,000 years; it may be 2,000, or 10,000 or 20,000 years; but it is definite that for the coming 1,000 years there will appear no Manifestation; for 1,000 years there shall arise no Sun. All the appearances will be beneath the shade of the Most Great Appearance; they will be as stars of guidance. All of them shall gather around this Fountain of Life; all of them will become illumined with the rays of this Sun; all of them will receive a share and a portion from this great Sea; all of them will become vivified with this soul imparting breeze and all of them will be under the down-pour of this rain. SW v05#05 p.81 (June 5, 1914)
