



As to the practice of nomination on Baha'i elections, this the Guardian firmly believes to be in fundamental dis-accord with the spirit which should animate and direct all elections held by the Baha'is, be they of a local or national character and importance. It is, indeed, the absence of such a practice that constitutes the distinguishing feature and the marked superiority of the Baha'i electoral methods over those commonly associated with political parties and factions. The practice of nomination being thus contrary to the spirit of Baha'i Administration should be totally discarded by all the friends. For otherwise the freedom of the Baha'i elector in choosing the members of any Baha'i Assembly will be seriously endangered leaving the way open for the domination of personalities. Not only that; but the mere act of nomination leads eventually to the formation of parties--a thing which is totally alien to the spirit of the Cause. LG#31 (4 Feb. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

In addition to these serious dangers, the practice of nomination has the great disadvantage of killing in the believers the spirit of initiative, and of self-development. Baha'i electoral procedures and methods have, indeed, for one of their essential purposes the development in every believer of the spirit of responsibility. By emphasizing the necessity of maintaining his full freedom in the elections, they make it incumbent upon him to become an active and well -- informed member of the Baha'i community in which he lives. LG#32 (4 Feb. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The strength and progress of the Baha'i community depend upon the election of pure, faithful and active souls... Canvassing is deprecated... Baha'i elections of the Community are... sanctified from all traces of canvassing and plotting that characterize the activities of the perfidious. LG#35 (9 Apr. 1932 from Shoghi Effendi to the friends in Persia)

In order to preserve the spiritual character and purpose of Baha'i elections the practices of nomination or electioneering, or any other procedure or activity detrimental to that character and purpose shall be eschewed. A silent and prayerful atmosphere shall prevail during the election so that each elector may vote for none but those whom prayer and reflection inspire him to uphold. CUHJ.14

I feel that reference to personalities before the election would give rise to misunderstanding and differences. What the friends should do is to get thoroughly acquainted with one another, to exchange views, to mix freely and discuss among themselves the requirements, and qualification for such a membership without reference or application, however indirect, to particularly individuals, but should stress the necessity of getting fully acquainted with the qualifications of membership referred to in our Beloved's Tablets and of learning more about one another through direct, personal experience rather than through the reports and opinions of our friends. PBA.046, COC#709, COC#1365, LG#36, DG#60 (14 May 1927 from Shoghi Effendi)




In addition to these serious dangers, the practice of nomination has the great disadvantage of killing in the believers the spirit of initiative, and of self-development. Baha'i electoral procedures and methods have, indeed, for one of their essential purposes the development in every believer of the spirit of responsibility. By emphasizing the necessity of maintaining his full freedom in the elections, they make it incumbent upon him to become an active and well -- informed member of the Baha'i community in which he lives. LG#32 (4 Feb. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

To be able to make a wise choice at the election time, it is necessary for him to be in close and continued contact with all of his fellow -- believers, to keep in touch with local activities, be they teaching, administrative or otherwise, and to fully and whole-heartedly participate in the affairs of the local as well as national committees and Assemblies in his country. It is only in this way that a believer can develop a true social consciousness, and acquire a true sense of responsibility in matters affecting the interests of the Cause. Baha'i community life thus makes it a duty for every loyal land faithful believer to become an intelligent, well -- informed and responsible elector, and also gives him the opportunity of raising himself to such a station. And since the practice of nomination hinders the development of such qualities in the believers, and in addition leads to corruption and partisanship, it has to be entirely discarded in a Baha'i elections. LG#34 (4 Feb. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

With a heightened awareness of the functions to be performed by the elected body, the believer can properly assess those for whom a vote should be cast. From among the pool of those whom the elector believes to be qualified to serve, selection should be made with due consideration given to such other factors as age distribution, diversity, and gender. The elector should make his choice after careful thought over an extended period before the actual election. (25 March 2007 from the Universal House of Justice)

It is expected that, through training and experience in the process of Baha'i elections, the members of the electorate will have raised their consciousness of their responsibility to vote for only those who satisfy the requirements that the Guardian has outlined. They will, therefore, see it as their continuing duty to familiarize themselves with the character and abilities of those who are active in the community, so that, when the time for an election comes, they will already have some idea of the people from among whom they must make their choice. (16 Nov. 1988 from the Universal House of Justice)




Concerning the presidential elections, Shoghi Effendi says that we should avoid anything that would identify the Cause as a body with one party or the other. Any such recommendation on the part of the Assemblies, no matter how indirect it may be, will show that the Cause is favouring one party against another. It is for the friends individually and independently to study the issues and find to what party they desire to extend their support. Election should be free and not subjected to such influences. The friends should individually see what the proper course is and follow it. (21 Aug. 1928 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to Mr McDaniel) You have asked as to whether participation in the election of judges involves an interference in political matters or not. Shoghi Effendi feels that, although the Bench is supposed to be non-partisan, it, nevertheless, is apt to be run on political lines and in this way necessitates the allegiance of the participants to a political party and doctrine. He would, therefore, advise the friends not to involve themselves in such matters which can indirectly harm the interests of the Cause. The friends should also refrain from taking part in the presidential elections. (20 Aug. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to Willard Hatch) Now, regarding the question of Baha'i participation in the presidential elections in America: the Guardian wishes me to state that he has never instructed any believer to refrain from voting, as he believes that this is essentially a question which involves the application of an administrative principle of the Cause; and as you well know the application of all such administrative principles is primarily the function of the Local and National Assemblies, and not of the Guardian. Shoghi Effendi has already restated the principle laid down by the Master namely that the believers should keep away from political activities. The task of determining what activity is political or not is that of the Assemblies, inasmuch as it constitutes the application of a Baha'i administrative principle, and not its formulation or its interpretation. (28 May 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to Willard Hatch)




Equally significant to the procedures for election -- to further extend the example -- is the evocation of that rarefied atmosphere of prayer and reflection, that quiet dignity of the process, devoid of nominations and campaigning, in which the individual's freedom to choose is limited only by his own conscience, exercised in private in an attitude that invites communion with the Holy Spirit. In this sphere, the elector regards the outcome as an expression of the will of God and those elected as being primarily responsible to that will, not to the constituency which elected them. An election thus conducted portrays an aspect of that organic unity of the inner and outer realities of human life which is necessary to the construction of a mature society in this new Age. In no other system do individuals exercise such a breadth of freedom in the electoral process. M86-01 60.20 (29 Dec. 1988 from the Universal House of Justice)

The electors ... must prayerfully and devotedly and after meditation and reflection elect faithful, sincere, experienced, capable and competent souls who are worthy of membership.... COC#716 (1 Jul. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
