



...matter and the universal elements cannot be entirely destroyed and annihilated. No, their annihilation is merely transformation. SAQ#53.7 (was SAQ.203)

...total annihilation is an impossibility, and existence can never become nonexistence. PUP.087

A true and fundamental scientific principle is that an element itself never dies and cannot be destroyed for the reason that it is single and not composed.  Therefore, it is not subject to decomposition. PUP.415

...the elements, the indivisible elements which have gone into the composition of this flower are eternal and changeless.  Therefore the realities of all phenomena are immutable. FWU.052

Scientific philosophy has demonstrated that a simple element ('simple' meaning 'not composed') is indestructible, eternal. PT#29:14 p090

...pure existence cannot be annihilated; and what we observe are but transformative modifications in the composition of the essence. ADP.107

We must first prove that there is no annihilation in creation. Annihilation is only the decomposition of elements.... for existence there is no death. At most there is a transfer from one state to another. (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 195)

The elements of metals are not true single elements - a time will come when all the elements will be decomposed. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 40)

But matter and the universal elements cannot be entirely destroyed and annihilated. No, their annihilation is merely transformation. For instance, when man dies, his body becomes dust, but it does not become absolute non-existence: It retains a mineral existence, but a transformation has taken place, and that composition has been subjected to decomposition. It is the same with the annihilation of all other beings; for existence does not become absolute non-existence, and absolute non-existence does not acquire existence. SAQ#53.7 (was SAQ.204)

...every part of the universe is connected with every other part by ties that are very powerful and admit of no imbalance, nor any slackening whatever.... Physical bodies are transferred past one barrier after another, from one life to another, and all things are subject to transformation and change, save only the essence of existence itself - since it is constant and immutable, and upon it is founded the life of every species and kind, of every contingent reality throughout the whole of creation. SWAB#137 p157

When we die our bodies return to the mineral and vegetable world.  This example shows the inter-relationship of the different kingdoms which is erroneously called annihilation. ADP.107-108

...The followers of Truth hold that all material things will prove on close examination to be composite and compound forms, even though philosophers through the ages may have regarded them as simple substances. (Provisional translation, ABU0054)
