



The sanctified realities of the Manifestations of God have two spiritual stations: One is that of the state of divine manifestation (mazhariyyat), which can be compared to the orb of the sun, and the other is that of radiance and revelation, which may be likened to the divine light and perfections--the Holy Spirit. SAQ#31.2 (was SAQ.127)

The connection between God and His creation is that of the originator and the originated, of the sun and the dark bodies of the universe, of the craftsman and his handiwork. Not only is the sun sanctified in its very essence above all the bodies that receive its illumination, but its light is also, in its essence, sanctified from and independent of the earth. So, though the earth is nurtured by the sun and is the recipient of its light, the sun and its rays are nonetheless sanctified above it. But were it not for the sun, the earth and all terrestrial life could not exist. The procession of creation from God is a procession through emanation. That is, creation emanates from God; it does not manifest Him. The connection is that of emanation [sudur] and not of manifestation [zuhur]. SAQ#53.2-3 (was SAQ.202)

Know that procession is of two kinds: procession [qiyam] and appearance [tajalliy] through emanation [suduri], and procession and appearance through manifestation [zuhuri]. Emanational procession [qiyam-i-suduri] is like the procession of the handiwork from its author. For example, the writing proceeds from the writer. Now, just as the writing emanates from the writer and the discourse from the speaker, so does the human spirit emanate from God. But it does not manifest Him; that is, no part has been separated from the divine Reality to enter into the body of man. No, the human spirit has emanated, just as speech emanates from the speaker, and become manifested in the body of man. As for manifestational procession [qiyam-i-zuhuri], it is the manifestation of the reality of a thing in other forms, like the procession of this tree or this flower from their seeds... SAQ#54.2-3 (was SAQ.205)

The real Existence through which all things are realized, that is, the reality of the divine Essence through which all things have come to exist, is acknowledged by all. The difference resides in the fact that the Sufis maintain that the realities of all things are the manifestation of the One [wahid-i haqiqi], whereas the Prophets say that they emanate therefrom. And great indeed is the difference between manifestation and emanation. SAQ#82.16 (was SAQ.294)

This quickening spirit [Divine Spirit] emanates spontaneously from the Sun of Truth, from the reality of Divinity, and is not a revelation or a manifestation. It is like the rays of the sun. The rays are emanations from the sun. PUP.059

Is creation a manifestation or an emanation of God?... Many people think that creation is a manifestation of God, that the divine reality like unto the embryo in a seed, has come forth out of the seed and become a trunk, branches, leaves, flowers. The prophets teach differently.  Creation is an emanation from the creator.... Creation is like the sunlight; God is the sun. ADP.106,108

The existence of things is of two kinds: existence through manifestation and existence through emanation. The existence through emanation is like unto the existence of rays which have emanated from that Real Being or Existence. Consequently things are from Him and He is not in the things. Existence through manifestation is, for example, the existence of this flower which has appeared from this tree. (Mahmud's Diary, 8 Aug. 1912. See Badayi'u'l-Athar vol. 1, p. 184: This text follows the two paragraphs on p. 199 of the English translation.)

The Prophet is the emanation of the Eternal Light. It is not an emanation of substance, but an overflowing, a reflection of light and warmth. All things appertaining to prophethood are a manifestation, a reflection of the Divine. (Fallscheer notes, p. 27)




The existence of things is of two kinds: existence through manifestation and existence through emanation. The existence through emanation is like unto the existence of rays which have emanated from that Real Being or Existence. Consequently things are from Him and He is not in the things. Existence through manifestation is, for example, the existence of this flower which has appeared from this tree. (Mahmud's Diary, 8 Aug. 1912. See Badayi'u'l-Athar vol. 1, p. 184: This text follows the two paragraphs on p. 199 of the English translation.)

Appearance through emanation [tajalliy-i-suduri] is like the appearance of the rays from the sun: The sanctified Essence of the Sun of Truth cannot be divided or descend into the condition of the creation. In the same way, the sun does not divide itself or descend upon the earth, but its rays--the outpourings of its grace--emanate from it and illumine the dark bodies. SAQ#53.3 (was SAQ.202)

Emanational procession [qiyam-i-suduri] is like the procession of the handiwork from its author. For example, the writing proceeds from the writer. Now, just as the writing emanates from the writer and the discourse from the speaker, so does the human spirit emanate from God. But it does not manifest Him; that is, no part has been separated from the divine Reality to enter into the body of man. No, the human spirit has emanated, just as speech emanates from the speaker, and become manifested in the body of man. SAQ#54.2 (was SAQ.205)

...in appearance through emanation the One [wahid-i haqiqi] remains transcendent in the heights of its sanctity, but the existence of the creatures is obtained from it through emanation, not manifestation. It can be compared to the sun: The rays emanate from it and shine forth upon all things, but the sun remains transcendent in the heights of its sanctity. SAQ#82.16 (was SAQ.294)




The existence of things is of two kinds: existence through manifestation and existence through emanation. The existence through emanation is like unto the existence of rays which have emanated from that Real Being or Existence. Consequently things are from Him and He is not in the things. Existence through manifestation is, for example, the existence of this flower which has appeared from this tree. (Mahmud's Diary, 8 Aug. 1912. See Badayi'u'l-Athar vol. 1, p. 184: This text follows the two paragraphs on p. 199 of the English translation.)

But appearance through manifestation is like the manifestation of the branches, leaves, blossoms, and fruit from the seed; for the seed itself becomes the branches and fruit, and its reality descends into them. This manifestational appearance would be sheer imperfection and utterly impossible for the Most High, for this would require unconditioned pre-existence to take on the attributes of the originated... SAQ#53.4 (was SAQ.202-203)

As for manifestational procession [qiyam-i-zuhuri], it is the manifestation of the reality of a thing in other forms, like the procession of this tree or this flower from their seeds, for it is the seed itself that has become manifested in the form of the branches, leaves, and flowers. SAQ#54.3 (was SAQ.205)

Appearance through manifestation means that a single thing becomes manifest in infinite forms. For example, when the seed, which is a single thing endowed with the perfections of the vegetable kingdom, manifests itself, it becomes resolved into the infinite forms of the branches, leaves, flowers, and fruit. This is called manifestational appearance.... SAQ#82.16 (was SAQ.294)

This plant beside me has risen from the seed; therefore, it is a manifestation and unfoldment of the seed.... But the reality of Divinity is indivisible, and each individual of humankind cannot be a part of it as is often claimed. PUP.059
