



Too great emphasis cannot be laid on the importance of the unity of the friends, for only by manifesting the greatness of their love for and patience with each other can they hope to attract large numbers to their ranks. (2 Aug. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in the compilation on Promoting Entry By Troops)

He longs to see a greater degree of unity and love among the believers, for these are the spirit which must animate their Community life. Until the people of the world see a shining example set by us they will not embrace the Cause in masses, because they require to see the teachings demonstrated in a pattern of action. (13 Mar. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in the compilation on Promoting Entry By Troops)

Until the public sees in the Baha'i Community a true pattern, in action, of something better than it already has, it will not respond to the Faith in large numbers. (13 Mar. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in the compilation on Promoting Entry By Troops)

Dear Mr. and Mrs. ... have a great ability for kindling in the hearts the love of God. It is for this wholesome, warming, spiritualizing love that the world is thirsting today. The Baha'is will never succeed in attracting large numbers to the Faith until they see in our individual and community life acts, and the atmosphere, that bespeak the love of God. (17 Feb. 1945 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in the compilation on Promoting Entry By Troops)

There are two things which will contribute greatly to bringing more people into the Cause more swiftly: one is the maturity of the Baha'is within their Communities, functioning according to Baha'i laws and in the proper spirit of unity, and the other is the disintegration of society and the suffering it will bring in its wake. When the old forms are seen to be hopelessly useless, the people will stir from their materialism and spiritual lethargy, and embrace the Faith. (3 Jul. 1948 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in the compilation on Promoting Entry By Troops)

The Faith advances, not at a uniform rate of growth, but in vast surges, precipitated by the alternation of crisis and victory. In a passage written on 18 Jul. 1953, in the early months of the Ten Year Crusade, Shoghi Effendi, referring to the vital need to ensure through the teaching work a "steady flow" of "fresh recruits to the slowly yet steadily advancing army of the Lord of Hosts", stated that this flow would "presage and hasten the advent of the day which, as prophesied by 'Abdu'l-Baha, will witness the entry by troops of peoples of divers nations and races into the Baha'i world".... This is the time for which we must now prepare ourselves; this is the hour whose coming it is our task to hasten. M86-01 36.6 (31 Aug. 1987 from the Universal House of Justice)

This flow, moreover, will presage and hasten the advent of the day which, as prophesied by 'Abdu'l-Baha, will witness the entry by troops of peoples of divers nations and races into the Baha'i world -- a day which, viewed in its proper perspective, will be the prelude to that long-awaited hour when a mass conversion on the part of these same nations and races, and as a direct result of a chain of events, momentous and possibly catastrophic in nature, and which cannot as yet be even dimly visualized, will suddenly revolutionize the fortunes of the Faith, derange the equilibrium of the world, and reinforce a thousandfold the numerical strength as well as the material power and the spiritual authority of the Faith of Baha'u'llah. CF.116

When the masses of mankind are awakened and enter the Faith of God, a new process is set in motion and the growth of a new civilization begins. Witness the emergence of Christianity and of Islam. These masses are the rank and file, steeped in traditions of their own, but receptive to the new Word of God, by which, when they truly respond to it, they become so influenced as to transform those who come in contact with them. M63-86 18.1 (13 Jul. 1964 from the Universal House of Justice)

...entry by troops is not merely a stage of the progress of the Cause destined to occur in its own good time, dependent on the receptivity of the population as a whole -- it is a phenomenon which the Baha'i communities, by their own activities, can prepare for and help to bring about. It is also a process which, once started, can be sustained. (9 Nov. 1993 from the Universal House of Justice)

The more important consequences of your activities are the spirit that is diffused into the life of the community, and the extent to which the teachings we proclaim become part of the consciousness and belief of the people that hear them. For it is only when the spirit has thoroughly permeated the world that the people will begin to enter the Faith in large numbers. (18 February 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in compilation on Promoting Entry by Troops)
