



Man, the noblest and most perfect of all created things, excelleth them all in the intensity of this revelation, and is a fuller expression of its glory. And of all men, the most accomplished, the most distinguished and the most excellent are the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth. Nay, all else besides these Manifestations, live by the operation of their Will, and move and have their being through the outpourings of their grace. KI#109 p103, GWB#090 p179

It is therefore clear and evident that man stands in need of an educator. This educator must undeniably be perfect in every way and distinguished above all men. For if he were like others he could never be their educator, particularly since he must at once be their material, human, and spiritual educator. That is, he must organize and administer their material affairs and establish a social order, that they may aid and assist each other in securing the means of livelihood and that their material affairs may be ordered and arranged in every respect. He must likewise lay the foundations of human education--that is, he must so educate human minds and thoughts that they may become capable of substantive progress; that science and knowledge may expand; that the realities of things, the mysteries of the universe, and the properties of all that exists may be revealed; that learning, discoveries, and major undertakings may day by day increase; and that matters of the intellect may be deduced from and conveyed through the sensible. He must also impart spiritual education, so that minds may apprehend the metaphysical world, breathe the sanctified breaths of the Holy Spirit, and enter into relationship with the Concourse on high, and that human realities may become the manifestations of divine blessings, that perchance all the names and attributes of God may be reflected in the mirror of the human reality and the meaning of the blessed verse "Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness" may be realized. SAQ#3.9-11 (was SAQ.008-009)

Our meaning is that the universal Educator must be at once a material, a human, and a spiritual educator, and, soaring above the world of nature, must be possessed of another power, so that He may assume the station of a divine teacher. Were He not to wield such a celestial power, He would not be able to educate, for He would be imperfect Himself. How then could He foster perfection? SAQ#3.15 (was SAQ.011)

The Holy Divine Manifestations are Unique and Peerless. They are the Archetypes of Celestial and Spiritual Virtues in their own age and cycle. They stand on the Mount of Vision and they foreshadow the perfection of the evolving race. (Fallscheer notes)

Who is the man amongst you that can rival Me in vision or insight? Where is he to be found that dareth to claim to be My equal in utterance or wisdom? KA#101, ESW.129, GWB#098 p198-199

Know thou that the distinguished Individual of every age is endowed according to the perfections of His age. That Individual who in past ages was set above His fellows was gifted according to the virtues of His time. But in this age of splendours, this era of God, the pre-eminent Personage, the luminous Orb, the chosen Individual will shine out with such perfections and such power as ultimately to dazzle the minds of every community and group. And since such a Personage is superior to all others in spiritual perfections and heavenly attainments, and is indeed the focal centre of divine blessings and the pivot of the circle of light, He will encompass all others, and there is no doubt whatsoever that He will shine out with such power as to gather every soul into His sheltering shade. SWAB#031 p062-063

...true man is the image and likeness of God; in other words, he is the recipient of the outflow of all the divine perfections. This man is like a mirror, and the divine emanations are like the rays of the sun. The divine perfections, that is to say, all the perfect names and attributes, become manifest in this mirror. Such an individual is a spiritual focal point, just as the sun is the luminous center of the material world. This blessed soul blows the breath of life into hearts, in other words, it causes souls to become spiritual. It causes the emanations of the spirit to appear in hearts. Such a blessed soul is the primary teacher of the human world, and the most distinguished among all created things. KHT1.100; PC00603

...he who occupies the degree of servitude, no matter how far he may progress and acquire endless perfections, can never reach the degree of divine Lordship.... For example, Peter cannot become Christ. At most, he can attain infinite perfections in the degrees of servitude, for every existing reality is capable of progress. SAQ#62.2-3 (was SAQ.230-231)




...the individual reality of the Manifestations of the All-Merciful is a sanctified reality, and it is so because it surpasses in essence and in attributes all created things. It is like the sun, which, by virtue of its inherent disposition, must inevitably produce light, and cannot be compared to any satellite. SAQ#39.3 (was SAQ.154)

Know thou that, verily, the 'Manifestation' is not composed of the four elements (earth, fire, air and water), nay, rather, He is the Mystery of Oneness, of the Ancient Identity, the Eternal Essence and the Unknowable Reality, and that, verily, He can never be known by any other save Himself. Therefore, one can never realize that He hath appeared from any of the four elements, or from any of the substances mentioned by the tongues of philosophers, or from any of the four expressions of nature, such as heat, cold, dry and wet... BSC#375 p.204-205 (From an early translation of the Lawhu'z-Zuhur, in La'ali'u'l-Hikmat, 1:56)

Exalted, immeasurably exalted, art Thou above the strivings of mortal man to unravel Thy mystery, to describe Thy glory, or even to hint at the nature of Thine Essence.... The loftiest sentiments which the holiest of saints can express in praise of Thee, ... all revolve around that Center (nuqtih) Which is wholly subjected to Thy sovereignty, Which adoreth Thy Beauty, and is propelled through the movement of Thy Pen. Nay, forbid it, O my God, that I should have uttered such words as must of necessity imply the existence of any direct relationship between the Pen of Thy Revelation and the essence of all created things. GWB#001 p003-004

I testify that Thou wast a hidden Treasure wrapped within Thine immemorial Being and an impenetrable Mystery enshrined in Thine own Essence. Wishing to reveal Thyself, Thou didst call into being the Greater and the Lesser Worlds (al-'alama'l-akbar wa-l'asghar), and didst choose Man above all Thy creatures, and didst make Him a sign of both of these worlds.... Thou didst raise Him up to occupy Thy throne before all the people of Thy creation. Thou didst enable Him to unravel Thy mysteries, and to shine with the lights of Thine inspiration and Thy Revelation, and to manifest Thy names and Thine attributes. Through Him Thou didst adorn the preamble of the book of Thy creation.... I bear witness that in His person solidity and fluidity have been joined and combined (al-biharu'l-munjamidu wa al-munjamidu'l-bihar). PM#038 p049

Unto this subtle, this mysterious and ethereal Being He hath assigned a twofold nature; the physical, pertaining to the world of matter, and the spiritual, which is born of the substance of God Himself.[1] He hath, moreover, conferred upon Him a double station. The first station, which is related to His innermost reality, representeth Him as One Whose voice is the voice of God Himself.... The second station is the human station... GWB#027 p066-067     [1] "'Gleanings' page 66 -- The spiritual nature referred to in that passage is itself the Primal Emanation which is born of the Substance of God." From a letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 6 Sep. 1937.




Their belief or disbelief in My Cause can neither profit nor harm Me. We summon them wholly for the sake of God. He, verily, can afford to dispense with all creatures. GWB#035 p085
