



Since those sanctified realities, the universal Manifestations of God, encompass all created things both in their essence and in their attributes, since They transcend and discover all existing realities, and since They are cognizant of all things, it follows that Their knowledge is divine and not acquired--that is, it is a heavenly grace and a divine discovery.... Briefly, the universal Manifestations of God are aware of the truths underlying the mysteries of all created things, and thus They found a religion that is based upon, and consonant with, the prevailing condition of humanity. For religion consists in the necessary relationships deriving from the realities of things.... Religion, then, consists in the necessary relationships deriving from the reality of things. The universal Manifestations of God, being aware of the mysteries of creation, are fully informed of these necessary relationships and establish them as the religion of God. SAQ#40.6-9 (was SAQ.157-159)

The manifestation of the will of the Omnipotent, in the universe, means the manifestation of the divine laws and disciplines which are essential to the realities of beings; and in the world of the Kingdom they are ideals which in the appearance of the holy Manifestations of God are realized. SW v12#12 p.194 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The Laws of God are not imposition of will, or of power, or pleasure, but the resolutions of truth, reason and justice. PT#47:1 p154




The manifestation of the will of the Omnipotent, in the universe, means the manifestation of the divine laws and disciplines which are essential to the realities of beings; and in the world of the Kingdom they are ideals which in the appearance of the holy Manifestations of God are realized. SW v12#12 p.194 (Abdu'l-Baha)

By nature is meant those inherent properties and necessary relations derived from the realities of things. And these realities of things, though in the utmost diversity, are yet intimately connected one with the other. For these diverse realities an all-unifying agency is needed that shall link them all one to the other. Forel.13

Now concerning nature, it is but the essential properties and the necessary relations inherent in the realities of things. And though these infinite realities are diverse in their character yet they are in the utmost harmony and closely connected together. As one's vision is broadened and the matter observed carefully, it will be made certain that every reality is but an essential requisite of other realities. Thus to connect and harmonize these diverse and infinite realities and all-unifying Power is necessary, that every part of existent being may in perfect order discharge its own function.... these infinite beings in this wondrous universe will discharge their functions properly only when directed and controlled by that Universal Reality, so that order may be established in the world.... ...both interaction and cooperation are evident and proven amongst all beings, whether large or small. In the case of large bodies interaction is as manifest as the sun, whilst in the case of small bodies, though interaction be unknown, yet the part is an indication of the whole. All these interactions therefore are connected with that all-embracing power which is their pivot, their center, their source and their motive power... interaction, cooperation and interrelation amongst beings are under the direction and will of a motive Power which is the origin, the motive force and the pivot of all interactions in the universe... Forel.20-23




...true order and law are the necessary relationships that proceed from the realities of things, required and necessitated by the nature of creation. If thou art able, do thou promote this order and promulgate this heavenly law. (Abdu'l-Baha, Min Makatib #13, p. 7, provisional translation, AB09545)

The most distinguished of them concluded that the laws must be derived from the necessary relations (ravabit-i-daruriyyih) inherent in the reality of things (haqayiq-i-ashya'). But the divine Manifestation asserted that to institute such laws is beyond human capacity, for human intelligence cannot encompass the realities of things, nor can it comprehend the essential relationships of such realities. Therefore, divine law is necessary, as it embraces the realities and penetrates all things. (Mahmud's Diary p. 297, Bada'iu'l-Athar 1:278)

These rules and relationships that constitute the basis of human happiness and that attend the descent of the divine favours are none other than the divine law and the social order that ensure the felicity, the integrity and the security of the human race. Were one to investigate the matter with care and to gaze with the eye of true insight, it would become evident that this law [shari'at] and this order [nizam] consist in the necessary relationships deriving from the realities of things [ravabit-i-dharuriyyih ast kih munba'ith az haqa'iq-i-ashyast]. How could they otherwise bring order to the body politic or be conducive to the well-being and happiness of human society? (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation from Siyasiyyih, para. 43)

...the divine philosophers hold that the excellence or baseness of things depends upon both reason and religious law. Thus, the prohibitions on murder, theft, treachery, falsehood, hypocrisy, and iniquity are based on reason: Every rational mind can grasp that these are all vile and reprehensible. For if you merely prick a man with a thorn he will cry out in pain: How well must he realize then that murder, according to reason, is vile and reprehensible. And were he to commit such a crime, he would be held accountable for it whether the prophetic message had reached him or not, for reason itself grasps the reprehensible character of this deed. Thus, when such a person commits such base actions, he will assuredly be held to account. SAQ#76.3




...certain souls from among the ancients, through the power of detachment, did gain knowledge of certain mysteries of existence and obtained insight into the connections and relations that exist between beings. They became cognizant of certain hidden secrets that lie within the realities of things, and deduced certain future events from the relationships between existences. This cannot be denied - as mentioned in the Kitab-i-Iqan regarding the star that heralded the birth of His Holiness the Spirit [Jesus]. However, no reliance whatsoever can be placed upon the fanciful notions contained in the books of the astrologers. (Abdu'l-Baha, AB03340, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.159-161)

But the wise souls who are aware of the essential relationships emanating from the realities of things consider that one single matter cannot, by itself, influence the human reality as it ought and should, for until the minds of men become united, no important matter can be accomplished. At present universal peace is a matter of great importance, but unity of conscience is essential, so that the foundation of this matter may become secure, its establishment firm and its edifice strong. SWAB#227 p297

In short, the composition and decomposition, the gathering and scattering and journeying of all creatures must proceed according to the natural order, divine rule and the most great law of God, so that no marring nor impairment may affect the essential relationships which arise out of the inner realities of created things. (Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha on cremation; cited in "Summon Up Remembrance", p. 175)
