



The change and transformation of conditions, and the succession and revolution of ages, are among the essential requirements of the contingent world, and essential requirements cannot be separated from the reality of things. Thus it is impossible to separate heat from fire, or wetness from water, or the rays from the sun, for these are essential requirements. And since change and transformation are among the requirements of all contingent things, the commandments of God are also changed in accordance with the changing times. For example, in the days of Moses, that which was required by and consonant with the conditions prevailing at that time was the Mosaic Law. However, in the days of Christ, those conditions had so changed as to render the Mosaic Law unsuited and ill-adapted to the needs of mankind, and it was therefore abrogated.... Now, this change, alteration, and abrogation was due to the fact that the age of Christ could not be compared to that of Moses. The conditions and requirements had entirely changed, and the former commandments were therefore abrogated. SAQ#20.2-3 (was SAQ.093-094)

...the essential names and attributes of God are identical with His Essence, and His Essence is sanctified above all understanding. If the essential attributes were not identical with the Essence, then there would be a multiplicity of pre-existences and the distinction between the Essence and the attributes would therefore also be firmly established and pre-existent. But this would imply an infinite chain of pre-existences, which is an evident error. SAQ#37.3 (was SAQ.148)

It is not meant, however, that the Universal Reality or the attributes thereof have been comprehended. Neither its Essence nor its true attributes hath any one comprehended. Forel.24

Know that according to Sufi convention it is affirmed that all names are remote from the court of the sanctity of the Hidden Being in the station of ahadiyah, and He is known without name or attribute. For the names of the True One are mirrors of his attributes, and the attributes of the True One in the station of ahadiyah are the same as his Essence (dhat) without any trace of difference or distinction. As his holiness, 'Ali ibn Abi Talib, has stated: 'Perfect belief in the divine unity (tawhid) consists in the negation of all his attributes.' Indeed, the permanent and essential names and attributes can in no way be separated from the Essence of the True One, but rather, in that station, names and attributes are inseparable from each other, nor are they distinguishable from the causeless Essence. The realities of the divine states (shu'unat) cannot be differentiated either conceptually or actually from each other or from the undifferentiated Essence. For example, there is no [existential] differentiation between the Name 'the All-Knowing' and the [Names] 'the All-Seeing', 'the All-Hearing', and the other Names; nor between these Essential Attributes and the Essence itself; nor between the Realities and Archetypes [a'yan], which are potential and passive, and these names and attributes. Indeed the Archetypes and Realities and Quiddities [mahiyah] of [all] things are, in this mighty station of ahadiyah, but stages in that Essence without a trace of deviation [ghayriyyat] from perfect oneness and annihilation. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.8-9, MKT2:006)

...consider the point; how letters and words are folded up and hidden within the essence (huwiyyat) and reality of a point with perfect effacement and annihilation so that no trace can be discerned of the existence of these letters and words nor is there any differentiation between them. Rather they are completely obliterated and utterly annihilated and have no existence except in the essence (dhat) of the point. In the same way the names and attributes of God and the essential states [shu'unat dhatiyya] are completely and utterly annihilated in the station of ahadiyah so that not a whiff can be inhaled from them of either actual or conceptual existence. This original point is the 'Hidden Treasure' of these letters and words and they were incorporated and immersed within it and from it they appeared. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.10, MKT2:008)

Be thou apprised also that the manifold realms of names and attributes can never be identified with His Essence, inasmuch as His most august attributes constitute His very Essence and none else save God can ever fathom this mystery.... Moreover, all these names and attributes are applicable to His Prophets, His Messengers and His chosen ones, for they are the sanctified Mirrors reflecting the divine attributes, and the Exponents that reveal His Name; for God -- glorified is He -- is unknowable in His exalted essence and attributes, therefore His Prophets are the Bearers of His most excellent names and the embodiments of His sublime attributes, that haply no one in the kingdom of names may be deprived of recognizing these heavenly attributes....In this connection it behoveth a true believer in the Unity of God to be wholeheartedly persuaded of the truth that these attributes which are manifested by His Messengers are none other than the revelation of the exalted attributes of God, and so well assured in his faith must he be that he should never perceive any difference between Him and Them, but for the recognition that the sublime traits and attributes the Prophets reveal, having all shone forth at God's own bidding and being generated through the potency of His all-pervading Will. Such is the true meaning of Divine Unity [Tawhid] when it is viewed in this light. (Baha'u'llah, Lawh Madinatu'l-Tawhid, in MA4:321, L5-6) PA00058

It is clear that the attributes of divinity are coequal and coexistent with the essence.  In that station there is absolute unity. ADP.149

His Attributes are verily His Essence (i.e. inseparable), not as the followers of Abu'l-Hasan al-Ash'ari maintain in that their numerousness in existence calls for a corresponding number of eternals, and not as the Mu'tazillites maintain by rejecting their origin but accepting their vestiges, and render the Essence as proxy, but through those firm in knowledge who maintain that His Existence is His very Essence, which is the confirmation of His Attributes of Perfection [kamaliyyah] and the manifestation of those Attributes of Beauty [jamaliyyah] and Majesty [jalaliyyah]. (Mulla Sadra, al-Masha'ir, in History of Islamic Philosophy (Nasr, ed.) pp. 125-126)

...love and affection raised their banner within the Essence of the Absolute prior to the manifestation of the Essential Dispositions (shu'unat dhatiyya) from the stage of Primal Unity (ahadiyih) to the stage of archetypal existence. (And the Hidden Essence became enraptured with Its own Beauty within Itself and this became the origin of all love and yearning and the source of all affection and ardour). This love and affection are identical to the Essence of the Absolute and are not separate from or additional to it. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.14, MKT2:013)

...no difference whatsoever exists between the Essence and the [essential] Attributes. And so in this respect no one can penetrate that Knowledge which is identical to the Essence in order to be able to determine the relationship between the Knowledge of the Absolute and things, whether it calls for objects of knowledge or not; whether it is dependent on the realities and potentialities of things or not. Certainly knowledge without an object of knowledge is not possible in the contingent world, but no-one knows [how the matter stands within] the Essence [of the Absolute]. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:029-030)

Know that infallibility is of two kinds: infallibility in essence ['ismat-i-dhatiyyih] and infallibility as an attribute ['ismat-i-sifatiyyih]. The same holds true of all other names and attributes: For example, there is the knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge of its attributes. Infallibility in essence is confined to the universal Manifestations of God; for infallibility is an essential requirement of Their reality, and the essential requirement of a thing is inseparable from the thing itself, SAQ#45.2 (was SAQ.171)




And wert thou to soar in the holy realm of "God was alone, there was none else besides Him," thou wilt find in that Court all these names utterly non-existent and completely forgotten. KI#174 p163

Know that the reality of the Divinity and the nature of the divine Essence is ineffable sanctity and absolute holiness; that is, it is exalted above and sanctified beyond every praise. All the attributes ascribed to the highest degrees of existence are, with regard to this station, mere imagination. The Invisible and Inaccessible can never be known; the absolute Essence can never be described. For the divine Essence is an all-encompassing reality, and all created things are encompassed. The all-encompassing must assuredly be greater than that which is encompassed, and thus the latter can in no wise discover the former or comprehend its reality. No matter how far human minds may advance, even attaining the highest degree of human comprehension, the uttermost limit of this comprehension is to behold the signs and attributes of God in the world of creation and not in the realm of Divinity. For the essence and the attributes of the all-glorious Lord are enshrined in the inaccessible heights of sanctity, and human minds and understandings will never find a path to that station. "The way is barred, and all seeking rejected." SAQ#37.2 (was SAQ.146)

It should be remembered in this connection that the one true God is in Himself exalted beyond and above proximity and remoteness. His reality transcendeth such limitations. His relationship to His creatures knoweth no degrees. That some are near and others are far is to be ascribed to the manifestations themselves. GWB#083 p185-186

Too high art Thou for the praise of those who are nigh unto Thee to ascend unto the heaven of Thy nearness, or for the birds of the hearts of them who are devoted to Thee to attain to the door of Thy gate. I testify that Thou hast been sanctified above all attributes and holy above all names. PM#183 p320, Ruhi1.2.6

For these have passed over the worlds of names and, swift as lightning, fled beyond the worlds of attributes. Thus is it said: "The perfection of belief in Divine Unity (tawhid) is to deny Him any attributes." And they have made their dwelling-place in the shadow of the Divine Essence (dhat). CDB#2.30 (was SV.15)

As to the attributes and perfections such as will, knowledge, power and other ancient attributes that we ascribe to that Divine Reality, these are the signs that reflect the existence of beings in the visible plane and not the absolute perfections of the Divine Essence that cannot be comprehended.... that Universal Reality with all its qualities and attributes that we recount is holy and exalted above all minds and understandings.... As it hath previously been mentioned, these attributes and perfections that we recount of the Divine Essence, these we have derived from the existence and observation of beings, and it is not that we have comprehended the essence and perfection of God. Forel.17-18, Forel.25

And at whatever time my pen ascribeth glory to any one of Thy names, methinks I can hear the voice of its lamentation in its remoteness from Thee, and can recognize its cry because of its separation from Thy Self. PM#076 p125

Thou hast asked concerning the fundamentals of religion and its ordinances: Know thou that first and foremost in religion is the knowledge (ma'rifat) of God. This attaineth its consummation in the recognition of His divine unity (tawhid), which in turn reacheth its fulfilment in acclaiming that His hallowed and exalted Sanctuary, the Seat of His transcendent majesty, is sanctified from all attributes. And know thou that in this world of being the knowledge of God can never be attained save through the knowledge of Him Who is the Dayspring of divine Reality. SWB.117; GOH.244-245 (From the Dala'il-i-Sab'iy-i-Farsi. Cf. AvK1.014)

As to names: though they appear to refer to that which is named, this is only at the level of creation. As for God, He is sanctified above all name and reference. Every name reacheth it highest consummation in the Most Exalted Word, and every attribute referreth to the Primal Will: Every soul that attaineth unto it hath attained and will ever attain unto all names. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.105)

The supporters of the "oneness of existence" (wahdatu'l-wujud) have joined partners with God through their testimony of existence, because the oneness which they seek to establish is a consequence of the existence of two, and except through the negation of two, how is it possible to have oneness? In like manner, those individuals who assert that the cause of contingent existence is the Essence of God and say there is a connection between them are unbelievers, because a cause is a consequence of conjunction with an effect, and having a connection is a consequence of the existence of duality. Both of these suggestions are sheer error. Nay, rather the true God is the real Essence, while creation is contingent, and anything outside of this contingent creation is impossible to grasp....From time immemorial the creation hath been the creation, and conjunction with the Essence is not possible. (The Bab, provisional translation, Sahifiy-i-Usul va Furu', AvK1.103-104, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

Know thou that, as regards that ancient Essence, its outward reality [zahir] is the same as its inward [batin], and its being [kaynunih] is identical to its essence [dhat]. It hath ever been, when no existence pertained to any thing, and It remaineth now as It was in preeternity, with no existence at Its level. Every thing to which the designation of "thing" can be applied, save the Essence of God, is His creation.... Nay, in truth His sacred Essence hath no attribute beyond His Essence, and the attributes described by the infallible ones [the imams] were, according to the explicit words of His Holiness Rida, merely for the sake of sweeping away vain imaginings. God hath ever been All-Knowing when no object of knowledge existed with Him, and His knowledge is identical to His Essence. Whosoever seeketh to comprehend His knowledge and its modality is an unbeliever.... He hath ever been All-Powerful, All-Hearing, and All-Seeing when no object of power, hearing, or sight existed with Him. He knoweth all things before their existence.... And all attributes express the existence of His Will, and all names are the Name of His Purpose.... And now, at the level of His Will, all are utter nothingness.... And after the existence of contingent beings, He described His Self in contingency through contingency. (the Bab, BB00017, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.059)

The way that can be spoken of is not the constant way;     The name that can be named is not the constant name.     The nameless was the beginning of heaven and earth;     The named was the mother of the myriad creatures. (Lao Tzu, Tao te Ching, i.1-2)

The Way has its reality and its signs but is without action or form. You can hand it down but you cannot receive it; you can get it but you cannot see it. It is its own source, its own root. Before Heaven and earth existed it was there, firm from ancient times. It gave spirituality to the spirits and to God; it gave birth to Heaven and to earth. It exists beyond the highest point, and yet you cannot call it lofty; it exists beneath the limit of the six directions, and yet you cannot call it deep. It was born before Heaven and earth, and yet you cannot say it has been there for long; it is earlier than the earliest time, and yet you cannot call it old. (Chang Tzu, Basic Writings, p. 77)

We look at it, and we do not see it, and we name it 'the Equable.' We listen to it, and we do not hear it, and we name it 'the Inaudible.' We try to grasp it, and do not get hold of it, and we name it 'the Subtle.' With these three qualities, it cannot be made the subject of description; and hence we blend them together and obtain The One. (Tao Te Ching)

"Not this, not this" (Neti, Neti); for there is no other and more appropriate description than "Not this". Now the designation of Brahman: "The Truth of truth." The vital breath is truth and "Brahman" is the Truth of that. (Brihadaranyaka Upanishad)




The second kind of attributes are actional attributes, which are quite different from essential attributes. Actional attributes come into being when God acts in the realm of Possible Being.... In contrast to essential attributes, actional attributes are new and created. Will (mashi'a), decree (irada), and speech (kalam)... are actional attributes.... (Vahid Ra'fati, The Development of Shaykhi Thought in Shi'ih Islam, pp. 75-76, giving the views of Shaykh Ahmad and Siyyid Kazim from Sharhal-Ziyarat al Jami'a, p. 134 and Usul-i 'Aqa'id, p. 31)

The attributes of God were divided by the Mu'tazilah and their rivals into essential, including knowledge, life, power, hearing and sight, and active, including will, speech and justice, all of which, according to the Mu'tazilah, were inseparable from God's essence. The first group of attributes did not, on the whole, raise any serious difficulties. When it came to relationalizing the second or active group of divine attributes and their relation to God, through, they ran into insuperable hurdles, especially regarding the two attributes of will and speech. These two attributes, which clearly bear on the mutable panorama of created objects or accidents, posed a serious threat to God's unquestioned immutability. (Majid Fakhry, in A Short Introduction to Islamic Philosophy, Theology and Mysticism, p. 19 and ff.)

...the essential reality underlying any given phenomenon is unknown.  Phenomenal, or created, things are known to us only by their attributes... the qualities appertaining to this organism [a flower] are perceptible to us, but the intrinsic elemental reality, or identity, of it remains unknown. PUP.421

Shaykh Ahmad distinguishes between two types of divine knowledge: that which pertains to the level of the divine Essence, and that which corresponds to the level of divine Action. God's knowledge at the level of His Essence is the same as the Essence itself. Such knowledge has no object of knowledge and is not dependent on the existence of the essences of things in the Essence of God. God's knowledge at the level of divine Action, in contrast, is associated with the objects of knowledge, and becomes the cause of the creation of the world. This second knowledge, however, is not eternal but originated and created. (N. Saiedi, in GOH.193)




If I describe Thee, O my God, as Him Who is the All-Perceiving, I find myself compelled to admit that They who are the highest Embodiments of perception have been created by virtue of Thy behest.... GWB#001 p003

Nay, loftiness and sublimity are themselves the creations of His Word, if ye choose to see with My sight not with yours. GWB#029 p073

...such a title is but one of Thy names all of which were created by a mere indication of Thy will. PM#093 p157

Were I to attempt to describe Thee by Thy names, I would readily recognize that the kingdom of these names is itself created through the movement of Thy fingers, and trembleth for fear of Thee. And were I to venture to extol Thine attributes, I would be forced to admit that these attributes are Thine own creation, and lie within Thy grasp. PM#176 p273-274

My eternity ('azaliyyih) is My creation, I have created it for thee. Make it the garment of thy temple. My unity (Ahadiyah) is my handiwork; I have wrought it for thee; clothe thyself therewith, that thou mayest be to all eternity the revelation of My everlasting being. AHW#64

Say: Lordship is My Name, whereof I have created manifestations in the world of being, while We Ourself remain sanctified above them, would ye but ponder this truth. And Godhead is My Name, whereof We have created exponents whose power shall encompass the people of the earth and make them true worshippers of God, could ye but recognize it. Thus should ye regard all Our Names, if ye be endued with insight. SLH.1#046




To every discerning and illumined heart it is evident that God, the unknowable Essence, the divine Being, is immensely exalted beyond every human attribute, such as corporeal existence, ascent and descent, egress and regress.... He is and hath ever been veiled in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and will remain in His Reality everlastingly hidden from the sight of men... No tie of direct intercourse can possibly bind Him to His creatures. He standeth exalted beyond and above all separation and union, all proximity and remoteness.... How could there be conceived any existing relationship or possible connection between His Word and they that are created of it? ...the words: "God was alone; there was none else beside Him" are a sure testimony of its truth. KI#104-105 p098-099, GWB#019 p046-047, WOB.113

The reality of the Divinity is sanctified above singleness, then how much more above plurality. SAQ#27.3 (was SAQ.113)

From eternity Thou hast, in Thy transcendent oneness, been immeasurably exalted above Thy servants' conception of Thy unity.... All who adore Thy unity have been sore perplexed to fathom the mystery of Thy oneness, and all have confessed their powerlessness to attain unto the comprehension of Thine essence and to scale the pinnacle of Thy knowledge. PM#079 p130

And similarly consider the Unitary Concept [ahad]; how all the numbers appear from it and it is in no number since it is the point of origin of all numbers. And the first to be specified and to appear from it is the number "one" [wahid] and from "one" all other numbers come into being. So all these numbers are contained in the unitary concept in the most perfect simplicity and oneness. And so it is the "Hidden Treasure" of all numbers and from it do they appear. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.11, MKT2:008-009)

My eternity ('azaliyyih) is My creation, I have created it for thee. Make it the garment of thy temple. My unity (Ahadiyah) is my handiwork; I have wrought it for thee; clothe thyself therewith, that thou mayest be to all eternity the revelation of My everlasting being. AHW#64

He is a true believer in Divine unity who, far from confusing duality with oneness, refuseth to allow any notion of multiplicity to becloud his conception of the singleness of God, who will regard the Divine Being as One Who, by His very nature, transcendeth the limitations of numbers. GWB#084 p166-167

...if I attempt to describe Thee by glorifying the oneness of Thy Being, I soon realize that such a conception is but a notion which mine own fancy hath woven, and that Thou hast ever been immeasurably exalted above the vain imaginations which the hearts of men have devised. PM#075 p123

Into the abyss (primal depths) of the aloneness of God sink all duality, plurality and individuality. (Fallscheer notes, p. 27)

...that which is before this Intellect, this marvel of the One, ... which in truth has no fitting name, but if we must give it a name, "one" would be an appropriate ordinary way of speaking of it... Plotinus, Enn.VI.9.5

Existence is of two kinds: one is the existence of God which is beyond the comprehension of man. He, the invisible, the lofty and the incomprehensible, is preceded by no cause but rather is the Originator of the cause of causes. He, the Ancient, hath had no beginning and is the all-independent. The second kind of existence is the human existence. It is a common existence, comprehensible to the human mind, is not ancient, is dependent and hath a cause to it. The mortal substance does not become eternal and vice-versa; the human kind does not become a Creator and vice-versa. The transformation (qalaba) of the innate substance (mahiyat) is impossible. SWAB#139 p061, SW v11#10 p159

Who is there, O my Lord, that, when Thou revealest the first glimmerings of the signs of Thy transcendent sovereignty and might, hath the power to claim for himself any existence whatever? Existence itself is as nothing when brought face to face with the mighty and manifold wonders of Thine incomparable Self. PM#080 p133-134

Know thou that every created thing is a sign of the revelation of God. Each, according to its capacity, is, and will ever remain, a token of the Almighty.... ...each and every created thing hath, through the act of the Divine Will, been made a sign of His glory. So pervasive and general is this revelation that nothing whatsoever in the whole universe can be discovered that doth not reflect His splendor. Under such conditions every consideration of proximity and remoteness is obliterated. GWB#093 p184

No one hath ever been able befittingly to recognize Him nor will any man succeed at any time in comprehending Him as is truly meet and seemly, for any reality to which the term "being" is applicable hath been created by the sovereign Will of the Almighty, Who hath shed upon it the radiance of His Own Self.... SWB.111

God, verily, created the Will from nothing through itself, then He created through it all that to which the name "thing" can be applied. The cause of its existence, in truth, is its own self and naught else. Those who believe that the Essence is the cause of creation have made themselves partners with Him, as He cannot be known. He, verily, abideth in a state accessible only to Himself. Nothing is connected to Him, and in Him not a trace of the existence belonging to created things can be found. It is established in philosophy that cause and effect are alike. Therefore, the Imam hath declared: "The cause of things is His fashioning, but He is not its cause."     The feet of some of the learned have slipped in their explanation of this station, inasmuch as they have believed in something that God hath not purposed in His Book. Haply God may forgive them through His grace. He, verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful. Those who claim that there is a direct tie between God and creation have followed after their own desires, as others have followed them aforetime. This is an error in the estimation of the people of sanctity, for if we attribute such a connection to the Essence, then nothing in the religion of the Family of God is true. Nay, this is joining partners with Him, as I recited to thee previously. And if the connection resideth in creation, then there is no need for the people of the Bayan to prove it. This is why the Imam (upon him be peace) hath stated: "No third thing existeth between God and creation, and no third thing existeth apart from these two." This is well known by he whom God hath called to witness the creation of the heavens and the earth, and then the creation of himself. God is a sufficient witness unto what I say.     Those who say the fixed archetypes reside in the Essence of God in order to establish His knowledge, as all believe save those whom God hath pleased to preserve, have completely forsaken the religion of the Family of God, for any reference to otherness in their being testifieth to their separation and indicateth their complete rupture from God. God is the eternal Being, Who from time immemorial hath not changed, and it is not possible for divine unity to belong to anyone save Himself. All things are the images of substances whose existence hath no trace in God....Verily, God is the eternal Being, Who begetteth not and was not begotten. He hath no likeness in the realm of creation and no sign in the world of contingency, for a sign is a sign of one who is not indicated by himself for himself and an attribution is a description of one who is not described by himself for himself. Far exalted is God above that which they who make comparisons to Him invent concerning the oneness of existence. There is no statement in the estimation of God more absurd than this saying of theirs, for they mean by it that creation is the branch of the one Being. Verily, the Essence hath ever been void of His creation and He was apart from it when it came into being. No aspect of it is in Him.     The philosophers were compelled to propose the doctrine of the fixed archetypes and the uncompounded reality by their desire to establish the former in the knowledge of God. But gracious God! To establish God's knowledge of His creatures can only lead to falsehood, since from time immemorial God's knowledge hath been the same as Himself without another object of knowledge within Him. No one can understand the state of His Being except Himself. And whosoever aspireth to encompass the knowledge of his Lord at the same moment disbelieveth in Him, for how is anyone able to encompass the knowledge of his Lord whose very reality existeth through His act of creation [ibda] and was brought into being from nothing? He hath ever been the All-Knowing, even though nothing was with Him; and He is now the All-Knowing, despite the fact that nothing is with Him in His exalted station. The attributes of power and knowledge, and all the other names and attributes, are signs belonging to His creation and the musings of the imaginations of His servants that they may not doubt their Creator in anything. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir-i-Ha, AvK1.100-102, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages)

...we say that existence as conceived by man or comprehended through human reason or intellect is a characteristic of matter. Matter is like unto essence, while existence is its manifestation. The body of man is essence and existence is dependent upon it... But it is not so with the Essential Self-Existent One. His existence is true existence which is self-subsistent, not an intellectually perceived and comprehended existence; it is an Existence by which all created things come into being... We refer to Him as Self-Existent because we need to make use of a term but we do not mean that that Being can be contained within our comprehension. What is intended is the Reality from Whom all things emanate, the Reality through Whom all things exist. (Mahmud's Diary, p.199)

Concerning thy question about the meaning of the philosopher's saying, "From the One proceedeth only One": The statement is incorrect when the Cause is meant to be the Absolute Essence... However, when the intention behind the statement is to refer to the Primal Utterance, which is created by God by Itself, for Itself, then verily it is the truth... As the Imam said... "O Yunus! Knowest thou what the Primal Will is?" He replied, "Nay." Then the Imam stated: "It is the Primal Utterance" (Dhikr).... There is no doubt that the Eternal Essence hath ever been immeasurably exalted above any association with His creatures; how much less could it become the source out of which things proceed. Though the statement is discussed in philosophy, the truth is that it must refer to the grades of the creative Action itself. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.095-096; GOH.197-198)

Any comparison is a verity emanating from the thoughts of Thy creatures. Thou art immeasurably exalted above all these and Thou art independent of that which the highest and purest minds among the distinguished of Thy chosen ones hope to attain in the apex of glory and majesty. For people contemplate lofty concepts and exalted attributes with which they praise Thine ever-abiding quintessence, whereas all those sublime stations, peerless realities, and unsurpassed and luminous ascriptions refer to the divine truth that shineth resplendent within the right side of the Sacred Spot in the Vale of Towa. All else is verily vain imaginings conceived in the world of creation and Thou art inaccessible and exalted above the plane of comprehension and art not discerned even through the most refined truths in the realms of idle fancies. 'The way is barred, and all seeking rejected'. There is neither a connection nor a disconnection, neither existence nor non-existence. Thou hast, therefore, fashioned a luminous Being and an effulgent Truth, and Thou hast referred the world of creation to It and hast summoned all beings to bow down before It and hast bidden them to arrive and enter Its court. All else is verily trivial vain imaginings and hollow images. PA01513, in Makatib 1:220 and MMG#118

The Master uses this term "the Divine Reality is sanctified from singleness" in order to forcibly impress us with the fact that the Godhead is unknowable and that to define It is impossible; we cannot contain It in such concepts as singleness and plurality which we apply to things we know and can experience. He uses the method of exaggerated emphasis in order to drive home His thought that we know the sun indirectly through its rays, the Godhead indirectly through the Manifestations of God. (20 Feb. 1960 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Know that there are two kinds of knowledge [irfan]: the knowledge of the essence [dhat] of a thing and the knowledge [sifat] of its attributes. The essence of each thing is known only through its attributes; otherwise, that essence is unknown and unfathomed. As our knowledge of things, even of created and limited ones, is of their attributes and not of their essence, how then can it be possible to understand in its essence the unbounded Reality of the Divinity? ...everything is known by its attributes and not by its essence: Even though the human mind encompasses all things, and all outward things are in turn encompassed by it, yet the latter are unknown with regard to their essence and can only be known with regard to their attributes. SAQ#59.3-4 (was SAQ.220)

...the essential reality underlying any given phenomenon is unknown.  Phenomenal, or created, things are known to us only by their attributes... the qualities appertaining to this organism [a flower] are perceptible to us, but the intrinsic elemental reality, or identity, of it remains unknown. PUP.421




It is completely able to discern itself; it has life in itself and all things in itself, and its thinking of itself is itself, and exists by a kind of immediate self-consciousness, in everlasting rest and in a manner of thinking different from the thinking of Intellect. Plotinus, Enn.V.4.2




Thou hast written concerning the Impersonality of the Divinity. Personality is in the Manifestation of the Divinity, not in the Essence of the Divinity. TAB.204




Shaykh Ahmad distinguishes between two types of divine knowledge: that which pertains to the level of the divine Essence, and that which corresponds to the level of divine Action. God's knowledge at the level of His Essence is the same as the Essence itself. Such knowledge has no object of knowledge and is not dependent on the existence of the essences of things in the Essence of God. God's knowledge at the level of divine Action, in contrast, is associated with the objects of knowledge, and becomes the cause of the creation of the world. This second knowledge, however, is not eternal but originated and created. (N. Saiedi, in GOH.193)
