



The one true God hath everlastingly existed, and will everlastingly continue to exist. His creation, likewise, hath had no beginning, and will have no end. All that is created, however, is preceded by a cause. This fact, in itself, establisheth, beyond the shadow of a doubt, the unity (tawhid) of the Creator. GWB#082 p162

Indeed He was a hidden treasure. This is a station that can never be described nor even alluded to. And in the station of 'I did wish to make Myself known', God was, and His creation had ever existed beneath His shelter from the beginning that hath no beginning, apart from its being preceded by a Firstness which cannot be regarded as a firstness and originated by a Cause inscrutable even unto all men of learning. TB.140

It was you who made that very time; nor could any periods of time pass by before you made them. But if no time existed before heaven and earth, why do they ask what you were doing then? There was no 'then' when there was no time. (St. Augustine, Confessions 11.13.15)




No sign can indicate His presence or His absence; inasmuch as by a word of His command all that are in heaven and on earth have come to exist, and by His wish, which is the Primal Will itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being, the world of the visible. KI#104 p098

Out of the wastes of nothingness, with the clay of My command I made thee to appear, and have ordained for thy training every atom in existence and the essence of all created things. PHW#29

A sprinkling from the unfathomed deep of His sovereign and all-pervasive Will hath, out of utter nothingness, called into being a creation which is infinite in its range and deathless in its duration. The wonders of His bounty can never cease, and the stream of His merciful grace can never be arrested. The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end. GWB#026 p061

Held by al-Ghazali, supported by Plato, Timaeus §27-30 (Goodman 92, p. 49).

All praise to the unity of God ... Who, out of utter nothingness, hath created the reality of all things, Who, from naught, hath brought into being the most refined and subtle elements (a'yan) of His creation.... Nothing short of His all-encompassing grace, His all-pervading mercy, could have possibly achieved it. How could it, otherwise, have been possible for sheer nothingness to have acquired by itself the worthiness and capacity to emerge from its state of non-existence into the realm of being? GWB#027 p064-065.         "The statement in 'Gleanings', pp. 64-65, 'who out of utter nothingness...', etc., should be taken in a symbolic and not a literal sense. It is only to demonstrate the power and greatness of God." LG#1603 (26 Dec. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

All praise and glory be to God Who, through the power of His might, hath delivered His creation from the nakedness of non-existence, and clothed it with the mantle of life. GWB#034 p077

All that is in heaven and all that is in the earth have come to exist at His bidding, and by His Will all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being. GWB#148 p318

God hath, out of sheer nothingness and through the potency of His command, created the heavens and the earth and whatever lieth between them. SWB.062

Thou art He Who createth from naught the universe and all that dwell therein.  BP.126 (the Bab)

Creation/bringing into existence is in accordance with the Writings and this is absolutely certain. (Abdu'l-Baha, in Response, p. 14. MKT1:436-437)
