



Know that according to Sufi convention it is affirmed that all names are remote from the court of the sanctity of the Hidden Being in the station of ahadiyah, and He is known without name or attribute. For the names of the True One are mirrors of his attributes, and the attributes of the True One in the station of ahadiyah are the same as his Essence (dhat) without any trace of difference or distinction. As his holiness, 'Ali ibn Abi Talib, has stated: 'Perfect belief in the divine unity (tawhid) consists in the negation of all his attributes.' Indeed, the permanent and essential names and attributes can in no way be separated from the Essence of the True One, but rather, in that station, names and attributes are inseparable from each other, nor are they distinguishable from the causeless Essence. The realities of the divine states (shu'unat) cannot be differentiated either conceptually or actually from each other or from the undifferentiated Essence. For example, there is no [existential] differentiation between the Name 'the All-Knowing' and the [Names] 'the All-Seeing', 'the All-Hearing', and the other Names; nor between these Essential Attributes and the Essence itself; nor between the Realities and Archetypes [a'yan], which are potential and passive, and these names and attributes. Indeed the Archetypes and Realities and Quiddities [mahiyah] of [all] things are, in this mighty station of ahadiyah, but stages in that Essence without a trace of deviation [ghayriyyat] from perfect oneness and annihilation. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.8-9, MKT2:006)

...love and affection raised their banner within the Essence of the Absolute prior to the manifestation of the Essential Dispositions (shu'unat dhatiyya) from the stage of Primal Unity (ahadiyih) to the stage of archetypal existence. (And the Hidden Essence became enraptured with Its own Beauty within Itself and this became the origin of all love and yearning and the source of all affection and ardour). This love and affection are identical to the Essence of the Absolute and are not separate from or additional to it. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.14, MKT2:013)

In summary, certain mystics who have ascended to the heaven of inner meanings consider the archetypes, realities, and potentialities to be pre-existent and unfashioned. Others who have quaffed from the crystal stream of knowledge and wisdom consider the essential natures and realities to be fashioned and originated. This evanescent servant hath cited the statements and arguments of both parties in the fullest possible manner in this treatise. In his own view, however, all these statements, disquisitions, stations, and degrees are complete and faultless from their own perspective. For although that which is contemplated is but one, the perspectives and stations of the mystics differ. Each viewpoint, however, is complete and perfect with respect to the station and degree occupied by the viewer. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.21, MKT2:040-041)

[also includes potential vs. actual existence: See Enn.II.5]

The names and attributes ... were within the Divine Essence in the highest form of simplicity and unity. And when that Light manifested Itself in the Lamp of Unity (wahidiyyih), the names and attributes became known and the forms of divine knowledge, that is, the realities (a'yan) of created things, appeared. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA5.019)

In regard to the existence of the eternal archetypes within the Divine essence, they have said, as one of the mystic philosophers hath written: 'The realities of things existeth in His Essence, lauded be He, in a most exalted state, then He causeth them to issue forth.' But they have not recognized that what gives [existence to] a thing must itself be devoid of that thing; rather, they say this is impossible. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Majmu'iy-i-alwah-i-Hadrat-i-Baha'u'llah, p. 140)

Most of the Islamic philosophers, the peripatetic philosophers, the followers of Mulla Sadra (as-Sadra'iyyin), and the Theosophical philosophers (al-ilahiyyin) have erred in their explanations of this station. The signs of the effulgences (tajalliyat) of creation were mistaken by them for the countenance of the Essence [of God]. Thus they went along with erroneous statements concerning the Eternal Archetypes (a`yan thabita) being in the Essence [of God] in order to establish His knowledge (praised be He)[1]; and with mention of the Uncompounded Reality in order to establish causality (`illiyya) in the Essence [of God]; and with mention of the connection between the Essence [of God] and [His] actions and attributes; and with the mention of the oneness of Being (wahdat al-wujud) between the Creator (mujid) and the one who has gone astray (al-mafqud). All of this is absolute heresy (shirk mahd) in the estimation of the family of God, the Imams of justice, for God has always been the All-Knowing without the existence of anything having form and shape (? - shay'un bi-mithl ma inna-hu kana shayyar). (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, INBA86:95-96, in Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah)     [1] This refers to the assertion that if Knowledge is an essential attribute of God then the Eternal Archetypes of all created things must be within the Essence of God in order for there to be something that is the object of God's knowledge. (note by M. Momen)

The names of God derive from those attributes which are the perfections belonging to the reality of the Essence. In the station of the absolute oneness (ahadiyyah) of the Essence, these names have neither manifestation nor distinction, and no trace, indication, or sign, for they are dispositions that belong to the Essence in the mode of simplicity and original oneness. Rather, it is in the station of unity-multiplicity (wahidiyyah) that the names become manifested, distinguished, realized, established, and given existence - an existence which emanateth from the merciful Reality and giveth rise to spiritual realities and heavenly essences at the level of the fixed archetypes (a'yan-i-thabita).... The first is applicable to the reality of the Essence in the station of absolute oneness. His existence is the same as His essence.... The second is applicable to the station of necessity, where existence is distinct from essence, though the former is concomitant of the latter in such a way that separation and disassociation are inconceivable and unimaginable, since existence is an essential attribute of essence. The third is applicable to the station of contingency, where something's existence is acquired from another and obtained from that which is beyond itself. In this case, its existence is other than its essence... ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Tafsir-i-Bismillahu'l-Rahmanu'l-Rahim, MKT1:049. Quoted in K. Brown's article on Creation)

Within the Hidden Essence, the stirrings of love and the inner yearnings [mayi-i dhati] necessitated Perfect Burnishing and Clarification (and the phrase 'Perfect Burnishing' among some of the mystic knowers is the manifesting of the Absolute to Itself in the archetypal forms [a'yan] and the word 'Clarification' is the gazing by the Unconditioned Beauty upon the effulgences of Its own Beauty in the mirrors of Realities and Forms). Therefore the Essential Dispositions have, through the Divine Outpouring (fayd-i-aqdas), manifested themselves out of the station of Essence into the station of Divine Knowledge [hadrat-i 'ilm]. This is the first manifestation of the Absolute from the Hidden Treasure in the Divine Knowledge. And from this manifestation the Eternal Archetypes ('ayan thabitah) came into intellectual being. And each one, according to its inherent capacity, is distinguished from the others in the mirrors of the Divine Knowledge. And this secondary station is set up along the lines of the first stage, the stage of the Mystery of Primary Oneness (ahadiyah). And this [second] stage is known as the Secondary Unknown, Manifested Oneness (wahidiyah) and the Eternal Archetypes. And the Eternal Archetypes are the Forms of the Divine intellect, which have not inhaled the breezes of existence but have come into being as intellectual existences [within the Divine Consciousness]. And they have become distinct from each other. And this secondary stage is also called the Hidden Treasure because the Archetypes and Realities which are the objects of the knowledge [ma'lumat] of the Absolute in the mirror of Divine Knowledge, are also incorporated in the Essence [of the Absolute] in the utmost state of concealment and of simplicity and oneness. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:009-010. Cf. K. Brown's translation in his paper on Originality of Species: "Inasmuch as the movement of love and essential yearning in the Hidden Being necessitated perfect burnishing and clarification (and 'perfect burnishing' in the opinion of some of the mystic knowers is the manifestation of the True One to himself in the forms of the archetypes, and 'clarification' is the gazing of the Absolute Beauty upon the effulgences of his own beauty in the mirrors of realities and archetypes), the essential states became manifested through the most holy outpouring (fayd-i-aqdas) from the station of the Essence into the station of the divine knowledge... And this stage is expressed as the secondary unknown, conferred oneness (wahidiyah), and the station of the permanent archetypes. These permanent archetypes are the forms of the divine knowledge which have not yet inhaled the fragrance of actual existence.")

But some of those who know the hidden secrets and are acquainted with the concealed divine mysteries, who have freed their gaze from the limitations of the similes and metaphors of the worlds of plurality, and who with divinely kindled fire have burned away the luminous veils, and with sharp sight and penetrating vision have witnessed the stations of unity - these consider all archetypes (a'yan), essences (mahiyat), realities (haqa'iq), and potentialities (qabiliyat) to be far removed from the shore of the sanctity of the divine knowledge which is identical to the True One. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:011-012)

But some of those who are informed of the hidden signs and have ascended to the heights of oneness hold that the realities and potentialities are created and formed, and that the archetypes and essences are originated and are the effect of prior causes which have not inhaled the fragrances of the sanctified breezes of pre-existence.... ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:026-027)

As to the "fixed archetypes" (a'yan al-thabitah) spoken of by the mystics, the argument is this: Numbers, although fixed, have no definite existence and are a mere convention. As they say: "East and west, north and south, possess a fixed (thabut) character, yet they have no objective existence. Likewise, the fixed archetypes are the forms of God's knowledge: they have a fixed character, but have not inhaled even a breath of real existence." (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:356. Cf. Ibn 'Arabi in the Fusus al-Hikam: "the essences (archetypes - al-a'yan) which are (in themselves) nothing but non-existence ('adam), and which are immutable in this state, have not even smelt the odour of existence (al-wujud); they stay just as they were, in spite of the multiplicity of the forms in the manifested realities." The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 35, quoted here)

It may be said, for instance, that this lamplight is last night's come back again, or that last year's rose hath returned to the garden this year. Here the reference is not to the individual reality (haqiqat-i-shakhsiyih), the fixed identity ('ayn-i-thabitah), the specialized being (kaynunat-i-makhsusih) of that other rose, rather doth it mean that the qualities, the distinctive characteristics of that other light, that other flower, are present now, in these. ...it is obvious that that impregnable centre of reality, that specific identity, can never return. SWAB#156 p184

The creative movement, or, to use the technical terminology of wahdat al-wujud philosophy, the self-manifestation (tajalli) of the Absolute which is activated by the principle of love, emerges for the first time at the stage of ahadiyah and is called the 'most sacred Emanation' (Fayd-i-Aqdas). As the result of this Emanation, the stage of wahidiyah becomes established. The wahidiyah, is the ontological state at which the original absolute Oneness of the reality of existence appears with inner articulations. These inner articulations are called, in accordance with the traditional terminology of theology, divine Names and Attributes. In this sense the stage of wahidiyah is called the stage of the Names and Attributes (asma' wa-sifat). Another name of this stage is the stage of knowledge (`ilm), i.e. divine Consciousness. This appellation comes from the idea that the wahidiyah is the stage at which God becomes conscious of Himself in the form of His own essential Perfections (kamalat dhatiyah). The essential Perfections of God that are thus established in divine Consciousness with clear demarcations are called the 'eternal Archetypes' (a`yan thabitah). Structurally, each eternal Archetype is considered to be the zahir or exterior of [a] particular divine Name which is the batin or interior of the Archetype. The eternal Archetypes are to be regarded as ontological models which are eternally established in divine Consciousness and upon which the phenomenal things are produced in the empirical dimension of time and space.... The eternal Archetypes become actualized as individual phenomenal things only at the next stage, that of the concrete existent, or the world of creaturely things. And the creative or self-manifesting activity of the absolute reality of existence by which this ontological 'descent' is actualized is called the 'sacred emanation' (fayd muqaddas) in distinction from the 'most sacred emanation' by which the ahadiyah develops into wahidiyah. (Izutsu, "An Analysis of Wahdat al-Wujud", in Creation and the Timeless Order of Things, p. 92: See also Sufism and Taoism, pp. 159-192 and The Concept and Reality of Existence, p.82-83)

...the world is but His own revelation in the forms of unalterable essences (eternal archetypes - a'yan al-thabitah), which do not exist in any fashion outside Him, and ... He assumes diverse forms and modes following the realities which are implied by the essences, and according to their states. (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 42; see also pp. 62-63)

The a'yan al-thabitah exist only in the first stage [that of the possible], not in the Essence of God.... So when He desired to manifest something from what is in the treasuries of the first stage and cause it to descend to the treasuries of the second stage, He created matter and form for it by his generative Will. He created it in these two things. (Shaykh Ahmad, Sharh al-Masha'ir p. 204. Trans. in Brown (2001), 70 and quoted here)

Things are patterned after archetypes, but the nature of the resemblance is different than that between two similar things: we must consider the virtues by which we assert that we are made like, in order that we may discover this one and the same reality which when we possess it as an imitation is virtue, but There, where it exists as an archetype, is not virtue. We should note that there are two kinds of likenesses... Plotinus, Enn.I.2.2 Also: "neither absolute justice nor any other moral absolute is virtue, but a kind of exemplar; virtue is what is derived from it in the soul." Enn.I.2.6

...the Reality of Muhammad is not exactly the permanent archetypes themselves. Rather, it is the unifying principle of all archetypes, the active principle on which depends the very existence of the archetypes. Considered from the side of the Absolute, the Reality of Muhammad is the creative activity itself of the Absolute, or God 'conceived as the self-revealing Principle of the universe'. It is the Absolute in the first stage of its eternal self-manifestation, i.e., the Absolute as the universal Consciousness.... Thus the Prophet Muhammad on the cosmic level corresponds almost exactly to the Plotinian First Intellect. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, pp. 236-237)

God (al-haqq) wanted to see the essences (archetypes -- al-a'yan) of His most perfect Names (al-asma al-husna) whose number is infinite - and if you like you can equally well say: God wanted to see His own Essence ('ayn) in one global object (creation -- kawn) which having been blessed with existence (al-wujud) summarized the Divine Order (Command -- al-amr) so that there He could manifest His mystery (sirr) to Himself. (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 8)

All praise to the unity of God ... Who, out of utter nothingness, hath created the reality of all things, Who, from naught, hath brought into being the most refined and subtle elements (a'yan) of His creation.... Nothing short of His all-encompassing grace, His all-pervading mercy, could have possibly achieved it. How could it, otherwise, have been possible for sheer nothingness to have acquired by itself the worthiness and capacity to emerge from its state of non-existence into the realm of being? GWB#027 p064-065.         "The statement in 'Gleanings', pp. 64-65, 'who out of utter nothingness...', etc., should be taken in a symbolic and not a literal sense. It is only to demonstrate the power and greatness of God." LG#1603 (26 Dec. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

There has been a vast discussion of the nature of these entities [the forms/ideas/archetypes], and Plato himself, as one dialogue followed another, touched on the question from many points of view. At one time they have been regarded by his critics as reified concepts and at another as ideas in the mind of God. Actually, however, they appear to be the ordering principle of which the world is constituted, the order in nature that all investigation seeks whether in physical science or in speculative philosophy. They are the meaning of the world of flux. (Huntington Cairns, in the introduction to the Collected Dialogues of Plato, p. xviii)

God, verily, created the Will from nothing through itself, then He created through it all that to which the name "thing" can be applied. The cause of its existence, in truth, is its own self and naught else. Those who believe that the Essence is the cause of creation have made themselves partners with Him, as He cannot be known. He, verily, abideth in a state accessible only to Himself. Nothing is connected to Him, and in Him not a trace of the existence belonging to created things can be found. It is established in philosophy that cause and effect are alike. Therefore, the Imam hath declared: "The cause of things is His fashioning, but He is not its cause."     The feet of some of the learned have slipped in their explanation of this station, inasmuch as they have believed in something that God hath not purposed in His Book. Haply God may forgive them through His grace. He, verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful. Those who claim that there is a direct tie between God and creation have followed after their own desires, as others have followed them aforetime. This is an error in the estimation of the people of sanctity, for if we attribute such a connection to the Essence, then nothing in the religion of the Family of God is true. Nay, this is joining partners with Him, as I recited to thee previously. And if the connection resideth in creation, then there is no need for the people of the Bayan to prove it. This is why the Imam (upon him be peace) hath stated: "No third thing existeth between God and creation, and no third thing existeth apart from these two." This is well known by he whom God hath called to witness the creation of the heavens and the earth, and then the creation of himself. God is a sufficient witness unto what I say.     Those who say the fixed archetypes reside in the Essence of God in order to establish His knowledge, as all believe save those whom God hath pleased to preserve, have completely forsaken the religion of the Family of God, for any reference to otherness in their being testifieth to their separation and indicateth their complete rupture from God. God is the eternal Being, Who from time immemorial hath not changed, and it is not possible for divine unity to belong to anyone save Himself. All things are the images of substances whose existence hath no trace in God....Verily, God is the eternal Being, Who begetteth not and was not begotten. He hath no likeness in the realm of creation and no sign in the world of contingency, for a sign is a sign of one who is not indicated by himself for himself and an attribution is a description of one who is not described by himself for himself. Far exalted is God above that which they who make comparisons to Him invent concerning the oneness of existence. There is no statement in the estimation of God more absurd than this saying of theirs, for they mean by it that creation is the branch of the one Being. Verily, the Essence hath ever been void of His creation and He was apart from it when it came into being. No aspect of it is in Him.     The philosophers were compelled to propose the doctrine of the fixed archetypes and the uncompounded reality by their desire to establish the former in the knowledge of God. But gracious God! To establish God's knowledge of His creatures can only lead to falsehood, since from time immemorial God's knowledge hath been the same as Himself without another object of knowledge within Him. No one can understand the state of His Being except Himself. And whosoever aspireth to encompass the knowledge of his Lord at the same moment disbelieveth in Him, for how is anyone able to encompass the knowledge of his Lord whose very reality existeth through His act of creation [ibda] and was brought into being from nothing? He hath ever been the All-Knowing, even though nothing was with Him; and He is now the All-Knowing, despite the fact that nothing is with Him in His exalted station. The attributes of power and knowledge, and all the other names and attributes, are signs belonging to His creation and the musings of the imaginations of His servants that they may not doubt their Creator in anything. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir-i-Ha, AvK1.100-102, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages)

As for the nature of God's knowledge of universals, that is, knowing in a general respect, or knowing the universals of things: These are universal worlds under which are instances and individuals, or they are abstracted universals, like naturalness, logicalness, and rationality. These are fixed things on the left side of existence. It is this theme that has caused most of the people to perish, and you will find that all are comparers and deniers, save those who adhere to the sayings of Muhammad and His family and who do not let their feet exceed their bounds....     The truth of this question is contrary to what the majority of the people understand. But the matter is easy for one who has discovered and recognized that knowledge is the same as the object of knowledge in the Necessary and the contingent, the visible and the invisible. Whoever doesn't understand this will never attain the truth of this question. An explanation of this will follow, God willing....     The truth is that when the creative action is related to existence, it is the Will; when it is related to the archetype ('ayn), in other words, the species form, it is Purpose; and when it is related to the limitations of the created, that is to say, their topography (handasa)--which includes length and breadth, continuance and mortality, term of duration, and the like--it is predestination. Through the accomplishment of the act of creation and the thing itself, it is fate; and through its manifestation, the revealing of causes, and the disclosure of means, it is execution....     The notion of the unity of the thinker with the object of thought is based upon what was put forward by the author of the doctrine of the oneness of existence (wahdat al-wujud). He was obliged, for the sake of the correctness of this principle, to forget what it implied in corruption of belief and to cross over into unworthy speculations. God willing, we will explain the falsity of everything he depends upon and the repugnance of what he implies, such as the oneness of the agent and the patient, cause and effect, and so on....     (Shaykh Ahmad, Sharh al-Masha'ir, pp. 15-18, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

Some [of the mystics] have supposed the One true God to be as the ocean, and His creatures as its waves.... In a similar vein, the mystics have likened Him Who is the Sovereign Truth to ink, and all else but Him to letters.... Likewise, they have supposed the Sovereign Truth to be as the number one, and all else but Him as higher numbers; and again they have supposed Him to be as water, and all else but Him as snowflakes.... In fine, they account all things manifestations of the effulgence of the essence of the One true God. 'Effulgence' likewise they have distinguished into three categories -- 'essential', 'accidental', and 'effectual', while the subsistence of all things in the One true God they have accounted 'phenomenal' in nature....         In like manner, they have posited the existence of the 'permanent ideal realities' in the essence of the Godhead, even as a certain learned sage hath said: 'The realities of things subsist in His exalted Being in a nobler fashion; thereafter He causeth them to pour forth' -- for they do not consider that the bestower can lack the thing he is bestowing, maintaining this to be impossible. Ibn-i-'Arabi, indeed, hath composed an extensive treatise on this subject, and the learned sages, as well as the authorities of later times like Sadr-i-Shirazi, Fayd, and others of their ilk, have walked among the pebbles of this same brook trod by Ibn-i-'Arab. Blessed, then, be he who walketh upon the crimson sand-dune on the shore of this great Ocean, a single wave of which hath obliterated whatever shapes and forms had been imagined by the people!...         O Salman! The Pen of the All-Merciful affirmeth that, in this Day, both the defender and upholder of these theories and their repudiator stand in the same degree, inasmuch as the Sun of Truth itself hath dawned, and now shineth forth resplendently from the apex of heaven. Assuredly, then, whoever occupieth himself in the discussion of such matters will remain deprived of recognizing the beauty of the All-Merciful. AvK1.172-175 (Tablet of Salman) PA00075

Immeasurably exalted is God above the claim of the philosophers that the cause of the originated beings is the Pre-existence of the Essence, seeking thereby to connect God with the contingent realm, and desiring to demonstrate the presence of the eternal intelligible forms (a'yani'th-thabitah), by virtue of the subtlety of the Indivisible, within His Essence... The statement of the philosophers that the cause of the created beings is the Essence is erroneous because of the lack of association [between cause and effect], the utter impossibility of change, and the precondition of the resemblance of the cause and the effect. The truth is that the Cause of beings is God's Handiwork, created by God Himself for Himself, and ordained to be the Cause of all His creation. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.190-191)

Verily, that which hath forced some of the philosophers to conceive of the presence of the eternal intelligible forms (a'yan-i-thabitah) in the Essence of God, and the doctrine of the True Indivisible Being (Basitu'l-Haqiqah), was their desire to validate the concept of the knowledge of God, magnified be His station! For they stated that knowledge must needs have an object of knowledge, and hence the affirmation of divine knowledge indicateth the existence of pluralities within the Essence of God.... Verily, their grievous sin is due to their use of analogy in their desire to comprehend the essential properties of the Essence at the level of the contingent beings. Exalted be God above such a notion!... Inasmuch as it is evident that His life is His Essence, since His life doth not rely on the existence of any living thing besides Him, then the same is true with regard to His knowledge. He, glorified be He, hath been omniscient from and throughout His immemorial eternity, without the existence of any object of knowledge. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.044 and GOH.195)




Verily, that which hath forced some of the philosophers to conceive of the presence of the eternal intelligible forms (a'yan-i-thabitah) in the Essence of God, and the doctrine of the True Indivisible Being (Basitu'l-Haqiqah), was their desire to validate the concept of the knowledge of God, magnified be His station! For they stated that knowledge must needs have an object of knowledge, and hence the affirmation of divine knowledge indicateth the existence of pluralities within the Essence of God.... Verily, their grievous sin is due to their use of analogy in their desire to comprehend the essential properties of the Essence at the level of the contingent beings. Exalted be God above such a notion!... Inasmuch as it is evident that His life is His Essence, since His life doth not rely on the existence of any living thing besides Him, then the same is true with regard to His knowledge. He, glorified be He, hath been omniscient from and throughout His immemorial eternity, without the existence of any object of knowledge. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.044 and GOH.195)
