



...the substance (maddih) and primary matter (hayula) of contingent beings is the ethereal power, which is invisible and only known through its effects, such as electricity, light, and heat - these are vibrations (waves - amvaj) [of that power], and this is established and proven in natural philosophy and is known as the ethereal substance. This ethereal substance is itself both the active force and the recipient; in other words, it is the sign of the Primal Will in the phenomenal world.... The ethereal substance is, therefore, the cause since light, heat, and electricity appear from it. It is also the effect, for as vibrations take place in it, they become visible. For instance, light is a wave occurring in that ethereal substance. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS2:3 p.28, MA2.069)




As to the substance (maddih) of electricity, it is the power of attraction and repulsion, which in days of clouds and rain clash with each other. ('Abdu'l-Baha to Husayn Baraqi, provisional translation, AvK1.142)

As to thunder and lightning: lightning is a sign of the coming together of the two mighty powers of the positive and the negative, that is to say, attraction and repulsion.... ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.142-143)




Even the ether, the forces of which are said in natural philosophy to be heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. Likewise, nature itself is an intelligible and not a sensible reality; the human spirit is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. SAQ#16.3 (was SAQ.083-084)

If we were to deny all that is not accessible to the senses, then we would be forced to deny realities which undoubtedly exist. For example, the ether is not sensible, although its reality can be proven. The power of gravity is not sensible, although its existence is likewise undeniable. Whence do we affirm their existence? From their signs. For instance, this light consists in the vibrations of the ether, and from these vibrations we infer its existence. SAQ#48.12 (was SAQ.190)

...in the world of being there exist forces unseen of the eye, such as the force of ether previously mentioned, that cannot be sensed, that cannot be seen. However, from the effects it produceth, that is from its waves and vibrations, light, heat, electricity appear and are made evident. In like manner the power of growth, of feelings, of understanding, of thought, of memory, of imagination and of discernment; all these inner faculties are unseen of the eye and cannot be sensed, yet all are evident by the effects they produce. Forel.19-20

The animal cannot transcend the animal intelligence.  The animal cannot penetrate the secrets of genesis and creation.  Its mind is incapable of conceiving the verity of ether.  It cannot know the mysteries of magnetism... PUP.357

The animal cannot understand the roundness of the earth, nor its motion in space, nor the central position of the sun, nor can it imagine such a thing as the all-pervading ether. AL.023




Consider that light consists in the vibrations of the ether, whereby the nerves of the eye are stimulated and vision is produced. Now, though the vibrations of the ether exist both in the lamp and in the sun, yet what a difference there is between the light of the sun and that of the stars or of the lamp! SAQ#37.12 (was SAQ.150)

If we were to deny all that is not accessible to the senses, then we would be forced to deny realities which undoubtedly exist. For example, the ether is not sensible, although its reality can be proven. The power of gravity is not sensible, although its existence is likewise undeniable. Whence do we affirm their existence? From their signs. For instance, this light consists in the vibrations of the ether, and from these vibrations we infer its existence. SAQ#48.12 (was SAQ.190)

...the nature of ether is unknown, but that it existeth is certain by the effects it produceth, heat, light and electricity being the waves thereof.  By these waves the existence of ether is thus proven. Forel.16

...consider the ethereal element which is penetrating and travelling through all the contingent realities.  When there is vibration or movement in the ethereal element, the eye is affected by that vibration and beholds what is known as light.  In the same manner the bestowals of God are moving and circulating throughout all created things. PUP.160

Verily, the ray, being transmitted from the etheric sphere, rends the space and reaches the surface of the earth and dispels the gloomy darkness. TAB.249

The light is divided into two kinds, material and spiritual.  The material light is a vanishing matter and is known by etheric vibrations. TAB.249

...the substance (maddih) and primary matter (hayula) of contingent beings is the ethereal power, which is invisible and only known through its effects, such as electricity, light, and heat - these are vibrations (waves - amvaj) [of that power], and this is established and proven in natural philosophy and is known as the ethereal substance. This ethereal substance is itself both the active force and the recipient; in other words, it is the sign of the Primal Will in the phenomenal world.... The ethereal substance is, therefore, the cause since light, heat, and electricity appear from it. It is also the effect, for as vibrations take place in it, they become visible. For instance, light is a wave occurring in that ethereal substance. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS2:3 p.28, MA2.069)

The word "spirit" has several different significations, or rather there are several degrees of spirit... The spirit of faith endows man with the capacity to love God and to know God.... That is why Jesus said, "Let the dead bury their dead." One who is born of the flesh is flesh; one who is born of the spirit is spirit. Those men who have not been delivered from the darkness of the human estate and who have not been illumined by the effulgence of God, although they are human in form, are in reality but animals... The spirit of faith is like the ether regarded as the vehicle of light. Etheric matter is found everywhere; but only where it is in undulation does light appear. (Pilgrim notes of Myron Phelps, "Abbas Effendi: His Life and Teachings", pp. 161-163)




...the substance (maddih) and primary matter (hayula) of contingent beings is the ethereal power, which is invisible and only known through its effects, such as electricity, light, and heat - these are vibrations (waves - amvaj) [of that power], and this is established and proven in natural philosophy and is known as the ethereal substance. This ethereal substance is itself both the active force and the recipient; in other words, it is the sign of the Primal Will in the phenomenal world.... The ethereal substance is, therefore, the cause since light, heat, and electricity appear from it. It is also the effect, for as vibrations take place in it, they become visible. For instance, light is a wave occurring in that ethereal substance. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS2:3 p.28, MA2.069)

Know then that, as hath been clearly handed down in the accounts of old, these great orbits and circuits fall within subtle, fluid, clear, liquid, undulating and vibrating bodies, and that the heavens are a restrained (blind - makfuf) wave because a void is impossible and inconceivable. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:025)
