



Likewise, the various species found upon the earth have an origin in time; for it is acknowledged by all that there was a time when these species existed nowhere on the face of the earth. SAQ#38.5 (was SAQ.151)




From the beginning of existence in the womb of the terrestrial globe, man gradually grew and developed like the embryo in the womb of its mother, and passed from one shape and form to another until he appeared with this beauty and perfection, this power and constitution. It is certain that initially he did not possess such loveliness, grace, and refinement, and that he has only gradually attained such form, disposition, comeliness, and grace. There is no doubt that, like the embryo in the womb of the mother, the embryo of humankind did not appear all at once in this form and become the embodiment of the words "Hallowed be the Lord, the most excellent of all creators!" Rather, it gradually attained various conditions and assumed divers forms until it attained this appearance and beauty, this perfection, refinement, and grace. It is therefore clear and evident that the growth and development of man on this planet unto his present completeness, even as the growth and development of the embryo in the womb of the mother, has been by degrees and through passing from state to state, and from one shape and form to another, for this is according to the requirements of the universal order and the divine law. SAQ#47.9 (was SAQ.183)

Now, were one to establish the existence of vestigial organs, this would not disprove the independence and originality of the species. At most it would prove that the form, appearance, and organs of man have evolved over time. SAQ#47.11 (was SAQ.184)

...even if we were to suppose that certain animals, or even man, once possessed limbs which have now disappeared, this would not be a sufficient proof of the transformation of the species. For man, from the conception of the embryo until the attainment of maturity, assumes different forms and appearances. His appearance, form, features, and colour change; that is, he passes from form to form and from appearance to appearance. Yet, from the formation of the embryo he belongs to the human species; that is, it is the embryo of a man and not of an animal.... The same holds true in the vegetable kingdom, where we observe that the original and distinctive character of the species does not change, while its form, colour, and mass do change, transform, and evolve.... Just as man progresses, evolves, and is transformed from one form and appearance to another in the womb of the mother, while remaining from the beginning a human embryo, so too has man remained a distinct essence--that is, the human species--from the beginning of his formation in the matrix of the world, and has passed gradually from form to form. It follows that this change of appearance, this evolution of organs, and this growth and development do not preclude the originality of the species. Now, even accepting the reality of evolution and progress, nevertheless, from the moment of his appearance man has possessed perfect composition, and has had the capacity and potential to acquire both material and spiritual perfections and to become the embodiment of the verse, "Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness." [Cf. Gen 1:26] At most, he has become more pleasing, more refined and graceful, and by virtue of civilization he has emerged from his wild state, just as the wild fruits become finer and sweeter under the cultivation of the gardener, and acquire ever greater delicacy and vitality. SAQ#49.6-8 (was SAQ.193-194)

The human spirit has certain signs and manifestations in the stage of the embryo, and yet other splendours and expressions in the stages of childhood, adolescence, and maturity. The spirit is one, and yet in the embryonic stage it lacks the powers of sight and hearing, whereas in the stages of adolescence and maturity it appears with the utmost splendour and radiance. SAQ#37.13 (was SAQ.150)

'What is the purpose of our lives?'     'Abdu'l-Baha - To acquire virtues. We come from the earth; why were we transferred from the mineral to the vegetable kingdom - from the plant to the animal kingdom? So that we may attain perfection in each of these kingdoms...until from the animal kingdom we step into the world of humanity and are gifted with reason, the power of invention, and the forces of the spirit. PT#55:2 p177

...in the contingent world, the human species hath undergone progressive physical changes and, by a slow process, hath scaled the ladder of civilization ... until it gained the capacity to express the splendours of spiritual perfections... SWAB#225 p285

In the world of existence man has traversed various stages until he has attained the human kingdom ('alam-i insani). In each stage the capacity (isti'dad) for ascent to the next stage has appeared. While in the kingdom of the mineral ('alam-i jamadi) the capacity to progress to the stage of the plant appeared, and, therefore, he came into the vegetable kingdom ('alam-i nabat). In the vegetable kingdom the capacity to progress into the world of the animal ('alam-i hayawan) was obtained, and thus he came into the animal kingdom. Similarly, from the world of the animal he came into the world of man. Throughout this journey of progression he has ever and always been potentially man. PUP.225-226, KHT2.170-171, revised trans. in Brown (2001), 86.

Man must walk in many paths and be subjected to various processes in his evolution upward. PUP.295

...[the human body] it has existed in the elemental substances of the mineral kingdom.  From the mineral kingdom it has traversed the vegetable kingdom and its constituent substances; from the vegetable kingdom it has risen by evolution into the kingdom of the animal and from thence attained the kingdom of man.  After its disintegration and decomposition it will return again to the mineral kingdom, leaving its human form and taking a new form unto itself. PUP.307

When we were in the mineral kingdom, although there we were endowed with certain gifts and powers, they were not to be compared with the blessings of the human kingdom. PUP.090

Take mankind: God created man from the mineral and enabled him to attain to his present station BSC#954 p.495 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Verily, verily, life after death is not imaginable. But do thou observe that it is evident man has evolved from the mineral world. As long as he was in the mineral kingdom, he could not imagine the vegetable kingdom. He was transferred to the vegetable kingdom. In the vegetable kingdom he could not imagine the animal kingdom. Before he emerged from the animal kingdom he could not imagine the stage of human reason and intelligence, that is, it was impossible for him, he did not have any knowledge thereof. SW v11#19 p315 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The forms assumed by the human embryo in its successive changes do not prove that it is animal in its essential character. Throughout this progression there has been a transference of type, a conservation of species or kind. Realizing this we may acknowledge the fact that at one time man was an inmate of the sea, at another period an invertebrate, then a vertebrate and finally a human being standing erect. Though we admit these changes, we cannot say man is an animal. In each one of these stages are signs and evidences of his human existence and destination.... in the protoplasm, man is man. Conservation of species demands it. PUP.359 (Last two sentences are not found in KHT2.304, and may be a later addition)

The species and essences of all things are permanent and changeless. Only within the limits of each species do progress and decline occur. In the human species, man's essence has always been preserved and unchanged and this was and will continue the same. As you will see from the ancient and human bodies which have been dried and embalmed and exhumed from the pyramids of Egypt 5,000 years after their death, there was not the slightest change or variation, not even a hair is different from the human beings of today. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA9.027. First two sentences in JBS5:4, p.61. Cf. Cuvier in Brown (2001), 16)




We must know, then, what each one of the great existent things was in the beginning. There is no doubt that initially there was a single origin: There cannot have been two origins. For the origin of all numbers is one and not two; the number two is itself in need of an origin. It is therefore evident that originally matter was one, and that one matter appeared in a different form in each element. Thus various forms appeared, and as they appeared, they each assumed an independent form and became a specific element. But this distinction attained its full completion and realization only after a very long time. Then these elements were composed, arranged, and combined in infinite forms; in other words, from the composition and combination of these elements countless beings appeared.... Briefly, we have said that from the composition of the elements; from their combination, manner, and proportion; and from their interaction with other beings countless forms and realities and innumerable beings have come to exist.... It is therefore evident that the original matter, which is like unto the embryo, initially took the form of composed and combined elements, and that composition gradually grew and developed over a myriad ages and centuries, passing from one shape and form to another until, through the consummate wisdom of God, it appeared with such completeness, order, arrangement, and soundness. SAQ#47.4-8 (was SAQ.181-183)

...the growth and development of all beings proceeds by gradual degrees. This is the universal and divinely ordained law and the natural order. The seed does not suddenly become the tree; the embryo does not at once become the man; the mineral substance does not in a moment become the stone: No, all these grow and develop gradually until they attain the limit of perfection. All beings, whether universal or particular, were created perfect and complete from the beginning. The most one can say is that their perfections only become apparent gradually. The law of God is one; the evolution of existence is one; the divine order is one. SAQ#51.3-4 (was SAQ.198-199)

Similarly, the terrestrial globe was created, from the beginning, with all its elements, substances, minerals, parts, and components, but these appeared only gradually: first the minerals, then the plants, then the animals, and finally man. But from the beginning, these kinds and species were latent in the earthly realm and appeared gradually thereafter. For the supreme law of God and the universal natural order encompasses all things and subjects them to its rule. When you consider this universal order, you see that not a single thing reaches the limit of perfection immediately upon coming into existence, but grows and develops gradually until it reaches that stage. SAQ#51.5 (was SAQ.199)

In a living organism the full measure of its development is not known or realized at the time of its inception or birth.  Development and progression imply gradual stages or degrees. PUP.131

If the human body (haykal) was originally not in its present composition, but was gradually transferred from one stage to another until it appeared in its present form [as the philosophers of the West say], then we would postulate that although at one time it was a swimmer and later a crawler, still it was human, and its species has remained unchanged. PUP.359, KHT2.304 (Revised translation in Brown (2001), 98)

Life on earth did not exist from the beginning and all at once, but it developed in stages and by degrees... (Fallscheer notes, p. 35, Feb. 1910, Concerning cultural felicity, and on modern technology, comments of the Prophets)

We Baha'is do not believe in Genesis literally. We know this world was not created in seven days, or six, or eight, but evolved gradually over a period of millions of years, as science has proved. LG#1658 (28 Oct. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




With reference to the statement to the effect that man has lived as man upon the earth only 300,000 years: I am directed by the Guardian to inform you that this has never originated from him, and is a misquotation. Questions such as this are for scientists to investigate and decide upon. (23 Nov. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




From the beginning of existence in the womb of the terrestrial globe, man gradually grew and developed like the embryo in the womb of its mother, and passed from one shape and form to another until he appeared with this beauty and perfection, this power and constitution. It is certain that initially he did not possess such loveliness, grace, and refinement, and that he has only gradually attained such form, disposition, comeliness, and grace. There is no doubt that, like the embryo in the womb of the mother, the embryo of humankind did not appear all at once in this form and become the embodiment of the words "Hallowed be the Lord, the most excellent of all creators!" Rather, it gradually attained various conditions and assumed divers forms until it attained this appearance and beauty, this perfection, refinement, and grace. It is therefore clear and evident that the growth and development of man on this planet unto his present completeness, even as the growth and development of the embryo in the womb of the mother, has been by degrees and through passing from state to state, and from one shape and form to another, for this is according to the requirements of the universal order and the divine law. SAQ#47.9 (was SAQ.183)

...even if we were to suppose that certain animals, or even man, once possessed limbs which have now disappeared, this would not be a sufficient proof of the transformation of the species. For man, from the conception of the embryo until the attainment of maturity, assumes different forms and appearances. His appearance, form, features, and colour change; that is, he passes from form to form and from appearance to appearance. Yet, from the formation of the embryo he belongs to the human species; that is, it is the embryo of a man and not of an animal.... The same holds true in the vegetable kingdom, where we observe that the original and distinctive character of the species does not change, while its form, colour, and mass do change, transform, and evolve.... Just as man progresses, evolves, and is transformed from one form and appearance to another in the womb of the mother, while remaining from the beginning a human embryo, so too has man remained a distinct essence--that is, the human species--from the beginning of his formation in the matrix of the world, and has passed gradually from form to form. It follows that this change of appearance, this evolution of organs, and this growth and development do not preclude the originality of the species. Now, even accepting the reality of evolution and progress, nevertheless, from the moment of his appearance man has possessed perfect composition, and has had the capacity and potential to acquire both material and spiritual perfections and to become the embodiment of the verse, "Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness." [Cf. Gen 1:26] At most, he has become more pleasing, more refined and graceful, and by virtue of civilization he has emerged from his wild state, just as the wild fruits become finer and sweeter under the cultivation of the gardener, and acquire ever greater delicacy and vitality. SAQ#49.6-8 (was SAQ.193-194)

The beginning of the formation of man on the terrestrial globe is like the formation of the human embryo in the womb of the mother. The embryo gradually grows and develops until it is born, and thereafter it continues to grow and develop until it reaches the stage of maturity. Although in infancy the signs of the mind and the spirit are already present in man, they do not appear in a state of perfection, and remain incomplete. But when man attains maturity, the mind and the spirit manifest themselves in the utmost perfection. Likewise, at the beginning of his formation in the matrix of the world, man was like an embryo. He then gradually progressed by degrees, and grew and developed until he reached the stage of maturity, when the mind and the spirit manifested themselves in the utmost perfection. From the beginning of his formation, the mind and the spirit existed, but they were hidden and appeared only later. In the world of the womb, too, the mind and the spirit exist in the embryo but are concealed and appear only afterwards. SAQ#51.2-3 (was SAQ.198)

...its species has remained unchanged. The proof of this is that the human embryo is at first a mere germ. Gradually the hands and feet appear and the lower limbs become separated from each other, and it is transferred from one form to another.... But from the time it was in the womb in the form of a germ, it was the species of man and not like the embryo of other animals. It was in the form of a germ, but it progressed from that form to this most beautiful form. Therefore, it is clear that the species is preserved. PUP.359; KHT2.303-304 (Revised trans. by K. Brown)




These various statements [on evolution] must be taken in conjunction with all the Baha'i teachings; we cannot get a correct picture by concentrating on just one phrase. (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Arohanui, p. 85)




We must know, then, what each one of the great existent things was in the beginning. There is no doubt that initially there was a single origin: There cannot have been two origins. For the origin of all numbers is one and not two; the number two is itself in need of an origin. It is therefore evident that originally matter was one, and that one matter appeared in a different form in each element. Thus various forms appeared, and as they appeared, they each assumed an independent form and became a specific element. But this distinction attained its full completion and realization only after a very long time. Then these elements were composed, arranged, and combined in infinite forms; in other words, from the composition and combination of these elements countless beings appeared.... Briefly, we have said that from the composition of the elements; from their combination, manner, and proportion; and from their interaction with other beings countless forms and realities and innumerable beings have come to exist.... It is therefore evident that the original matter, which is like unto the embryo, initially took the form of composed and combined elements, and that composition gradually grew and developed over a myriad ages and centuries, passing from one shape and form to another until, through the consummate wisdom of God, it appeared with such completeness, order, arrangement, and soundness. SAQ#47.4-8 (was SAQ.181-183)




We must know, then, what each one of the great existent things was in the beginning. There is no doubt that initially there was a single origin: There cannot have been two origins. For the origin of all numbers is one and not two; the number two is itself in need of an origin. It is therefore evident that originally matter was one, and that one matter appeared in a different form in each element. Thus various forms appeared, and as they appeared, they each assumed an independent form and became a specific element. But this distinction attained its full completion and realization only after a very long time. Then these elements were composed, arranged, and combined in infinite forms; in other words, from the composition and combination of these elements countless beings appeared.... Briefly, we have said that from the composition of the elements; from their combination, manner, and proportion; and from their interaction with other beings countless forms and realities and innumerable beings have come to exist.... It is therefore evident that the original matter, which is like unto the embryo, initially took the form of composed and combined elements, and that composition gradually grew and developed over a myriad ages and centuries, passing from one shape and form to another until, through the consummate wisdom of God, it appeared with such completeness, order, arrangement, and soundness. SAQ#47.4-8 (was SAQ.181-183)

Consider the world of created beings, how varied and diverse they are in species, yet with one sole origin. All the differences that appear are those of outward form and color. This diversity of type is apparent throughout the whole of nature. PT#15:3 p051-052

...I will speak to you upon the intrinsic oneness of the world of all phenomena. This is one of the abstruse subjects of divine philosophy. As each component atom or element in the physical organisms of existence is subject to transference through endless forms and stages, possessing virtues peculiar to those forms and stations, it is evident that all phenomena of material being are fundamentally one.... the origin of all material life is one and its termination likewise one. PUP.349-350




Even though the fetus develops and evolves in every possible way before it reaches its full development, from the beginning it belongs to a distinct species. The same holds true in the vegetable kingdom, where we observe that the original and distinctive character of the species does not change, while its form, colour, and mass do change, transform, and evolve. SAQ#49.7
