



I implore Thee to assist me and them that love me to magnify Thy Word... PM#063 p101

Summon then to their assistance the hosts of wisdom and utterance that they may exalt Thy Word amongst Thy creatures and proclaim Thy Cause amidst Thy servants. TB.059

The source of courage and power is the promotion of the Word of God, and steadfastness in His Love. TB.156, Ruhi3a.L14

Centre your attention unceasingly upon that which will cause the Word of God to be exalted. In this Most Great Revelation goodly deeds and a praiseworthy character are regarded as the hosts of God, likewise is His blessed and holy Word. These hosts are the lodestone of the hearts of men and the effective means for unlocking doors. Of all the weapons in the world this is the keenest. TB.256

Praise be to God that the highest wish entertained by heedful souls is the exaltation of the Word of God and the propagation of divine fragrances. SWAB#189 p223

Be not dismayed, O peoples of the world, when the daystar of My beauty is set, and the heaven of My tabernacle is concealed from your eyes. Arise to further My Cause, and to exalt My Word amongst men. We are with you at all times, and shall strengthen you through the power of truth. GWB#071 p137; KA#038, Ruhi6.1.11

O my God, aid Thou Thy servant to raise up the Word, and to refute what is vain and false, to establish the truth, to spread the sacred verses abroad, reveal the splendours, and make the morning's light to dawn in the hearts of the righteous. SWAB#203 p250, Ruhi6.3.31, Ruhi5.3.16




The Word of God may be likened unto a sapling, whose roots have been implanted in the hearts of men. It is incumbent upon you to foster its growth through the living waters of wisdom, of sanctified and holy words, so that its root may become firmly fixed and its branches may spread out as high as the heavens and beyond. GWB#043 p097, TB.093-094, Ruhi2.1.4         Cf. Qur'an 14:24: "See thou not how God sets forth a parable? A goodly Word [is] like a goodly tree, whose root is firmly fixed, and its branches (reach) to the heavens."

It behoveth every one in this Day of God to dedicate himself to the teaching of the Cause with utmost prudence and steadfastness. Should he discover a pure soil, let him sow the seed of the Word of God, otherwise it would be preferable to observe silence. TB.242

The sanctified souls should ponder and meditate in their hearts regarding the methods of teaching. From the texts of the wondrous, heavenly Scriptures they should memorize phrases and passages bearing on various instances, so that in the course of their speech they may recite divine verses whenever the occasion demandeth it, inasmuch as these holy verses are the most potent elixir, the greatest and mightiest talisman. TB.200, Ruhi6.1.24

Surely the ideal way of teaching is to prove our points by constant reference to the actual words of Baha'u'llah and the Master. This will save the Cause from being misinterpreted by individuals. It is what these divine Lights say that is truth and therefore they should be the authorities of our statements. This, however, does not mean that our freedom of expression is limited. We can always find new ways of approach to that truth or explain how they influence our life and condition. The more deep our studies the more we can understand the significance of the teachings. In the Cause we cannot divorce the letter from the spirit of the words. As Baha'u'llah says we should take the outward significance and superimpose upon it the inner. Either without the other is wrong and defective. COC#461, Ruhi6.1.26 (16 Feb. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

What the Guardian feels it of vital importance for the friends to do is to teach the Cause directly and by means of imparting the Holy Words.... COC#1944 (6 May 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Divine Truth is relative and that is why we are enjoined to constantly refer the seeker to the Word itself -- and why any explanations we make to ease the journey of the soul of any individual must be based on the Word -- and the Word alone. COC#2008 (4 Jun. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
