



...absolute non-existence lacks the capacity to attain existence. If the universe were pure nothingness, existence could not have been realized. SAQ#47.3 (was SAQ.180)

As to those sayings, attributed to the Prophets of old, such as, 'In the beginning was God; there was no creature to know Him,' and 'The Lord was alone; with no one to adore Him,' the meaning of these and similar sayings is clear and evident, and should at no time be misapprehended.... By this is meant that the habitation wherein the Divine Being dwelleth is far above the reach and ken of any one besides Him. GWB#078 p150-151

But matter and the universal elements cannot be entirely destroyed and annihilated. No, their annihilation is merely transformation. For instance, when man dies, his body becomes dust, but it does not become absolute non-existence: It retains a mineral existence, but a transformation has taken place, and that composition has been subjected to decomposition. It is the same with the annihilation of all other beings; for existence does not become absolute non-existence, and absolute non-existence does not acquire existence. SAQ#53.7 (was SAQ.204)

...existence and non-existence are both relative. If it be said that a certain thing was brought forth from non-existence, the intent is not absolute non-existence; rather, it is meant that the former condition was non-existence in relation to the present one. For absolute non-existence cannot become existence, as it lacks the very capacity to exist. SAQ#80.5 (was SAQ.281)

...nonexistence is only relative and absolute nonexistence inconceivable.... For existence there is neither change nor transformation; existence is ever existence; it can never be translated into nonexistence. It is gradation; a degree below a higher degree is considered as nonexistence. PUP.088-089

Similarly for [the objection] that has been mentioned above that the realities of existing things were absolutely non-existent, how could they have come into being? For non-existence has no potential to exist... ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:039)

The Mosaic story of creation oftentimes is misunderstood by learned men as well as laymen. God did not create the world out of nothing. The early Christian church teachers have spoken in incorrect interpretation of the bible, of a 'creatio ex nihilo', that is 'creation out of nothing'. That is an error. Moses teaches: 'In the beginning, God created heaven and earth. And the earth was deserted and empty, and it was dark in the depth and the spirit of God floated above the water. And God said: There shall be light! and there was light, etc.' Here nowhere is written that God created the world out of nothing. Nothingness should be the antithesis, the opposite, of God. The answer to that however is: 'In the beginning of the creation of the world, God emanated the heaven and the earth.... (From a talk entitled Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 5)




What are the different modes of being? (cf. Eriugena) Is there a difference between being and existence? Is is merely an artefact of language?         Intellect and being are one and the same thing (Enn.V.4.2; also Enn.V.9.8)         Intellect ... is the genuine reality and true substance (Enn.V.9.2)         Intellect as a whole is all the Forms (Enn.V.9.8)




Pre-existence [qidam] is of two kinds. One is essential [dhati] pre-existence, which is not preceded by a cause but which exists in itself. For example, the sun shines in itself and does not depend on the radiance of the other stars for its light. This is called essential light. But the light of the moon is derived from the sun, for the moon is in need of the sun for its radiance. Thus, with respect to light, the sun is the cause and the moon the effect. The former is ancient, antecedent, and prior, while the latter is preceded by something else. The second kind of pre-existence is temporal [zamani] pre-existence, which has no beginning. The transcendent Word of God is sanctified beyond time. SAQ#28.2-3 (was SAQ.116)

When the soul attaineth the Presence of God, it will assume the form that best befitteth its immortality and is worthy of its celestial habitation. Such an existence [baqa'] is a contingent [zamani] and not an absolute [dhati] existence, inasmuch as the former is preceded by a cause, whilst the latter is independent thereof. Absolute existence is strictly confined to God, exalted be His glory. GWB#081 p157

What is intended by pre-existence [qidam] is temporal [zamani] pre-existence, not essential [dhati] pre-existence, since the former is preceded by a cause. Far exalted be God from being connected with the world of contingency! We testify that that same pre-existence perceived by the devoted and near ones is contingent [hadith] in the eyes of God, that He hath ever been sanctified above terms denoting pre-existence and contingency, that He is holy above mention and explanation... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.028-029)

The pre-existence [qidam] of God is both essential [dhati] and temporal [zamani], while the origination of the contingent world [huduth-i-imkan] is essential but not temporal, as we have already explained another day at table. SAQ#53.5 (was SAQ.203), cf. SAQ#80.3-4)

Certain sages and philosophers hold that there are two kinds of pre-existence [qadim] -- essential [dhati] and temporal [zamani] -- and that there are likewise two kinds of origination [huduth] -- essential and temporal. Essential pre-existence is an existence which is not preceded by a cause; essential origination is preceded by a cause. Temporal pre-existence has no beginning; temporal origination has both a beginning and an end. For the existence of each and every thing depends upon four causes: the efficient cause, the material cause, the formal cause, and the final cause. So this chair has a creator who is a carpenter, a matter which is wood, a form which is that of a chair, and a purpose which is to serve as a seat. Therefore, this chair is essentially originated, for it is preceded by, and its existence is conditioned upon, a cause. This is called essential [hadith-i-dhati] or intrinsic origination [hadith-i-haqiqi]. The world of existence, in relation to its Creator, is intrinsically originated [hadith-i-haqiqi]. Likewise, since the body depends upon and is sustained by the spirit, it is, in relation to the spirit, essentially originated. SAQ#80.3-4 (was SAQ.280)

There are two kinds of eternities.  There is an eternity of essence, that which is without first cause, and an eternity of time, which has no beginning. ADP.106

How does one thing precede another? Four kinds of precedence: Precedence in eternity is how God precedes all things; precedence in time is how the flower precedes the fruit; precedence in preferability is how the fruit precedes the flower; precedence in origin is how the sound precedes the singing. (St. Augustine, Confessions 12.39.40)     See also the discussion of priority in Aristotle's Metaphysics V.11 and Gersons's Companion to Plotinus, pp. 68ff

The world of existence is contingent, inasmuch as it is preceded by a cause, while essential preexistence hath ever been, and shall remain, confined to God, magnified be His glory. This statement is being made lest one be inclined to conclude from the earlier assertion, namely that creation hath no beginning and no end, that it is preexistent. True and essential preexistence is exclusively reserved to God, while the preexistence of the world is secondary and relative. TU.2#49

...we say that existence as conceived by man or comprehended through human reason or intellect is a characteristic of matter. Matter is like unto essence, while existence is its manifestation. The body of man is essence and existence is dependent upon it... But it is not so with the Essential Self-Existent One. His existence is true existence which is self-subsistent, not an intellectually perceived and comprehended existence; it is an Existence by which all created things come into being... We refer to Him as Self-Existent because we need to make use of a term but we do not mean that that Being can be contained within our comprehension. What is intended is the Reality from Whom all things emanate, the Reality through Whom all things exist. (Mahmud's Diary, p.199)




Those preeminent Sufis who founded the doctrine of the "unity of existence" [wahdat al-wujud] never intended by this term the universally predicated existence which is conceived by the mind. For such an existence is but an accident among others occurring in association with the realities of things.[1] That is to say, these realities are the substance [jawhar], whereas that existence which is conceived by the mind, the universally predicated existence, is but an accident associated with them. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:354) [1] The meaning of the phrase `arid bar haqa'iq-i-mumkinat mishavad , translated here as "occurring in association with the realities of things," may be "occurring to the realities of things." A parallel passage in Mufavadat (i.e., Some Answered Questions) uses the expression hulul bar haqa'iq-i-ka'inat, which can mean "inhering in," "occurring to," and "descending upon." In other words, this external existence, to which we mentally predicate the attribute of existence, is an accident subsisting through (qa'im bi) the realities of things (See Abdu'l-Baha, Mufavadat [New Delhi: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1984] 203).

...whenever individual elements combine in accordance with the universal divine order, a certain being comes into the world of existence. That is, when certain elements are combined, a vegetable existence is produced; when others are combined, an animal existence is produced; when yet others combine, other things come into being. In each case, the existence of things is a consequence of their realities. SAQ#82.11 (was SAQ.292)

...we say that existence as conceived by man or comprehended through human reason or intellect is a characteristic of matter. Matter is like unto essence, while existence is its manifestation. The body of man is essence and existence is dependent upon it... But it is not so with the Essential Self-Existent One. His existence is true existence which is self-subsistent, not an intellectually perceived and comprehended existence; it is an Existence by which all created things come into being... We refer to Him as Self-Existent because we need to make use of a term but we do not mean that that Being can be contained within our comprehension. What is intended is the Reality from Whom all things emanate, the Reality through Whom all things exist. (Mahmud's Diary, p.199)
