



Thou hadst asked about fate (qada), predestination (qadar) and will (iradih). Qada and qadar consist in the necessary and indispensable relationships which exist in the realities of things. These relationships have been placed in the realities of existent beings through the power of creation and every incident is a consequence of the necessary relationship. For example, God hath created a relation between the sun and the terrestrial globe that the rays of the sun should shine and the soil should yield. These relationships constitute qadar, and the manifestation thereof in the plane of existence is qada. Iradih is that active force which controlleth these relationships and these incidents. Such is the epitome of the explanation of qada and qadar. I have no time for a detailed explanation. Ponder over this; the reality of qada, qadar, and iradih shall be made manifest. SWAB#167 p198

Observe the candle which burns. Its inevitable destiny is attained when the tallow and the wick are consumed.... But this inevitability is granted to it if the decrees of creation inherent in every created thing and bestowed by the power of God are not removed and annihilated. These decrees are apparent in everything since God's divine power has not been cut off from them. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.061)

what we call an accident, is the effect of the connection of all the parts, and no events transpire in vain. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 24)

The chain of creation is interwoven in a natural law and divine order. Everything is interlinked. A link cannot be broken without affecting that natural order. Everything that happens is in conformity with this order and is based on consummate wisdom.... These are the necessary consequences of that universal law and of all relationships and is interpreted as divine decree (taqdir). (Mahmud's Diary, 19 Jun. 1912, p. 139)

As to shortness of life, fewness of children, and scarcity of means, these are a result of all encompassing wisdom, the source of which is divine fate -- and divine fate consists in the firm and binding relationships between the various parts of the universe. Every event is bound up with every other event, and every exigency, owing to these necessary relationships (ravabit-i-daruri), is related to every other. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.083-084)
