



He should treasure the companionship of them that have renounced the world, and regard avoidance of boastful and worldly people a precious benefit. KI#214 p193-194, GWB#125 p265

Treasure the companionship of the righteous and eschew all fellowship with the ungodly. PHW#03     "In the passage 'eschew all fellowship with the ungodly,' Baha'u'llah means that we should shun the company of those who disbelieve in God and are wayward. The word 'ungodly' is a reference to such peverse people." LG#1608 (27 Mar. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

O servants! This nether world is the abode of demons: Guard yourselves from approaching them. By demons is meant those wayward souls who, with the burden of their evil deeds, slumber in the chambers of oblivion. Their sleep is preferable to their wakefulness, and their death is better than their life. TU.4#07

Question: 'How should one associate with people of bad character?' Abdu'l-Baha replied: "This, too, has too aspects. There are certain evils whose consequences affect the doer only and do not extend to others. Of course, with discretion and tact, we must try to warn and educate wrongdoers. They are sick; we must bring healing to them. But there are actions which are injurious to others. Association with persons who commit such deeds leads to a deterioration of morals and therefore to mingle with them is not advisable, except for persons of perfect integrity, who can also impart education. They should be exhorted to exert themselves to modify their morals and refine their behavior. The public should be protected from such harmful conduct by the institutions which administer justice. Thus, in the Tablets of the Blessed Beauty, although He commands association with people of all religions and races, He also forbids fellowship with the wicked, admonishing us to shun the people of negation and denial." (Mahmud's Diary, 2 May 1912, p. 74)

O ye beloved ones, guard the Cause of God! Let no sweetness of tongue beguile you--nay, rather consider the motive of every soul, and ponder the thought he cherisheth. Be ye straightway mindful and on your guard. Avoid him, yet be not aggressive! Refrain from censure and from slander, and leave him in the Hand of God. SWAB#233 p315

Never shall mortal eye recognize the everlasting Beauty, nor the lifeless heart delight in aught but in the withered bloom. For like seeketh like, and taketh pleasure in the company of its kind. PHW#10

Should a traveler fail to find a companion equal or better, rather than suffer the company of a fool, he should resolutely walk alone.... A fool may associate with a wise man throughout his life and remain untouched by his wisdom, even as a spoon cannot taste the flavor of soup. (Dhammapada 5.2,5.5)

We know absence of light is darkness, but no one would assert darkness was not a fact. It exists even though it is only the absence of something else. So evil exists too, and we cannot close our eyes to it, even though it is a negative existence. We must seek to supplant it by good, and if we see an evil person is not influenceable by us, then we should shun his company for it is unhealthy. LG#1341, UD.458 (4 Oct. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

There are persons with whom we associate and converse whose utterances are life-imparting, joy-giving. The withered and faded are refreshed, the joyless become happy, the extinct become enkindled and the lifeless are quickened with the breaths of the Holy Spirit. The one drowned in the sea of hesitation and doubt is saved by the lifeboat of certainty and assurance; the one attached to this material world becomes severed and the one steeped in blameworthy deeds is adorned with praiseworthy attributes. On the other hand there are some persons whose very respiration extinguishes the light of faith; whose conversation weakens firmness and steadfastness in the Cause of God; whose company diverts one's attention from the kingdom of Abha. 'Abdu'l-Baha, SW v08#02 p025
