



All the atoms of the earth have celebrated Thy praise, and all created things have been set ablaze with the drops sprinkled by the ocean of Thy love, and yet the people still seek to quench Thy fire. PM#032 p041

Cleave ye tenaciously to the Cord of the All-Highest God, which is but this Arabian Youth, Our Remembrance - He Who standeth Concealed at the point of ice amidst the ocean of fire. SWB.054, GOH.076

Verily, I say, so fierce is the blaze of the Bush of love, burning in the Sinai of the heart, that the streaming waters of holy utterance can never quench its flame. KI#065 p060

The living waters of My mercy, O 'Ali, are fast pouring down, and Mine heart is melting with the heat of My tenderness and love. GWB#142 p308

At one time He appeareth as the water which is life indeed, send down out of the heaven of Thy grace, and poured forth from the clouds of thy mercy.... At another time He revealeth Himself as the Fire which Thou didst kindle in the tree of Thy unity, whose heat melted the hearts of Thine ardent lovers... PM#038 p051-052

I entreat Thee, O my God, by Thy name through which the clouds have rained down their rain, and the streams have flowered, and the fire of Thy love hath been enkindled throughout Thy dominion, to assist Thy servant who hath turned towards Thee... PM#070 p116

But for the burning of their souls and the sighing of their hearts, they would be drowned in the midst of their tears, and but for the flood of their tears they would be burnt up by the fire of their hearts and the heat of their souls. Methinks, they are like the angels which Thou hast created out of snow and of fire. PM#094 p157-158

I know not what the water is with which Thou didst create me, or what the fire Thou didst kindle within me. PM#108 p182

The waters of Thy love have preserved me in the kingdom of Thy creation, and the fire of my remembrance of Thee hath set me ablaze before all that are in heaven and on earth. PM#111 p187

A drop out of the ocean of Thy mercy sufficeth to quench the flames of hell, and a spark of the fire of Thy love is enough to set ablaze a whole world. PM#153 p245

...he would, at one time discover that from this Pen there floweth out unto all created things the water that is life indeed.... At another time he would find that there proceedeth from this Pen such fire as Thine own Revelation can kindle... PM#176 p281

...make of my prayer a fire that will burn away the veils which have shut me out from Thy beauty, and a light that will lead me unto the ocean of Thy Presence.... Make my prayer, O my Lord, a fountain of living waters whereby I may live as long as Thy sovereignty endureth... PM#183 p317-318, Ruhi1.2.2 (first sentence), Ruhi1.2.6 (last sentence)

Verily, God hath granted thee permission to kneel in adoration and approach that Fire. This Fire, which, for the one True God, burneth at the very heart of the Water, prostrateth itself before the Truth. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.076)

When the soul offers the sacrifice of love it becomes living flames of fire. If we consider that the soul is transformed in God, it will be understood how, in some manner, it has in truth become a fountain of living water, boiling and burning in the fire of love--God himself. Here the soul rejoices in the glory of God under the protection of his shadow. It is immersed in the waters of the Divinity which freely penetrate the whole person. (St. John of the Cross, The Living Flame of Love, St. 2)
