



There are only four accepted criteria of comprehension, that is, four criteria whereby the realities of things are understood. The first criterion is that of the senses; that is, all that the eye, the ear, the taste, the smell, and the touch perceive is called "sensible". At present all the European philosophers hold this to be the most perfect criterion.... The second criterion is that of the intellect, which was the principal criterion of comprehension for those pillars of wisdom, the ancient philosophers.... The third criterion is that of tradition, that is, the text of the Sacred Scriptures, when it is said, "God said thus in the Torah", or "God said thus in the Gospel." This criterion is not perfect either, because the traditions must be understood by the mind.... But the grace of the Holy Spirit is the true criterion regarding which there is no doubt or uncertainty. That grace consists in the confirmations of the Holy Spirit which are vouchsafed to man and through which certitude is attained. SAQ#83.1-8 (was SAQ.297-299)

Briefly then, these four criteria according to the declarations of men are: first, sense perception; second, reason; third, traditions; fourth, inspiration.... the point is that in the human material world of phenomena these four are the only existing criteria or avenues of knowledge, and all of them are faulty and unreliable. What then remains? How shall we attain the reality of knowledge: By the breaths and promptings of the Holy Spirit, which is light and knowledge itself. Through it the human mind is quickened and fortified into true conclusions and perfect knowledge. PUP.021-022

Every subject presented to a thoughtful audience must be supported by rational proofs and logical arguments. Proofs are of four kinds: first, through sense perception; second, through the reasoning faculty; third, from traditional or scriptural authority; fourth, through the medium of inspiration. That is to say, there are four criteria or standards of judgment by which the human mind reaches its conclusions.... the four criteria or standards of judgment by which the human mind reaches its conclusions are faulty and inaccurate. All of them are liable to mistake and error in conclusions. But a statement presented to the mind accompanied by proofs which the senses can perceive to be correct, which the faculty of reason can accept, which is in accord with traditional authority and sanctioned by the promptings of the heart, can be adjudged and relied upon as perfectly correct, for it has been proved and tested by all the standards of judgment and found to be complete. PUP.253

There are four means of knowledge. Among scientists and philosophers a method of attaining knowledge is through the senses, principally through observation... Among the ancient philosophers the infallible way to knowledge was through logic... As to religious people their criterion has ever been the sacred text which must be accepted as final.... Inspiration is the fourth criterion. Occultists say, 'I have had a revelation. This truth has been revealed to me.'... So we have indicated the four criteria: the senses, reason, the sacred text, inspirations. There is no fifth. ADP.093-094

...know that all the peoples and kindreds possess four balances with which they weigh the truths, the significances, and the divine questions. All of them are imperfect, unable to quench the burning thirst or heal the sick. We shall therefore make mention of each one and demonstrate its limitation and inaccuracy..... The first balance is the balance of the senses [mizanu'l-hiss], which is the method of most of the European philosophers in this age.... As for the second balance, which the Illuminati and the peripatetics rely upon, it is the balance of reason [mizanu'l-`aql]. In like manner, the other schools of the first philosophers in the ancient and middle centuries depended upon it.... The third balance is the balance of tradition [mizanu'n-naql].... As for the fourth balance, it is the balance of inspiration [mizanu'l-'ilham]. Verily, inspiration indicateth certain inclinations of the heart. And the whisperings of Satan are also inclinations which arrive successively upon the heart by the agency of the soul. If there occureth to the heart a certain idea or question, how is it to be known whether it is an inspiration of the All-Merciful or a whispering of Satan? Therefore, it is evident that all of the balances current among the people are defective and their conclusions are unreliable. Nay, they are confused dreams, doubts, and idle fancies that neither allay the sore athirst nor appease the seeker of knowledge [`irfan]. As for the true, divine balance which never strayeth, and which ever comprehendeth the universal realities and the sublime inner meanings, it is the balance of the inmost heart [mizanu'l-fu'ad], of which God hath made mention in the blessed verse. It is an effulgence of the brilliant lights of the Divine Outpouring, the secret of the All-Merciful, the manifestation of sincere faith, and the lordly sign. Verily it is an ancient outpouring, a manifest light and a mighty bounty.... (Abdu'l-Baha, Min Makatib, pp.83-86, excerpts here)

And thou, O distinguished and noble one, art well aware that the measures of comprehension among people are of four kinds: the measure [or balance] of the senses, the measure of reason, the measure of tradition, and the measure of inspiration. As for the measure of the senses - its greatest medium is sight, and its error is clear and self-evident to them that possess insight. For verily, sight perceiveth the mirage as water, and the shadow as stationary, and the moving point as a circle, and mighty bodies as small. And as for the measure of reason, upon which the people of reflection and deduction rely - its error is clearly demonstrable, for its adherents have differed regarding most questions and opinions.... (Abdu'l-Baha, AB00223, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.259-261, MKT1:152ff)

The criterion of judgment in the estimation of western philosophers is sense perception. They consider that which is tangible or perceptible to the senses to be a reality.... In the estimation of the philosophers of the Orient, especially those of Greece and Persia, the standard of judgment is the intellect. They are of the opinion that the criterion of the senses is defective, and their proof is that the senses are often deceived and mistaken.... PUP.355-356

Man has four standards to which he refers in the ascertainment of truth--the report of the senses, the verdict of reason, tradition or testimony, and inspiration... Our conclusion must, therefore, be that none of these standards for the determination of truth is worthy of implicit confidence... Yet if the conclusion declared by all four of these standards be the same, it is worthy of confidence... Yet there is another standard which is the peculiar possession of the Chosen of God. This standard is the breathings of the Holy Spirit. By that power assurance is produced, man becomes certain, and the consciousness is satisfied. (Pilgrim notes of Myron Phelps, "Abbas Effendi: His Life and Teachings", pp. 151-152)
