



Know that the first tokens that emanated from the pre-existent Cause in the worlds of creation are the four elements: fire, air, water, and earth.... Then the natures (ustuqusat) of these four appeared: heat, moisture, cold, and dryness - those same qualities that ye both reckon and know When the elements interacted and joined with one another, two pillars became evident for each one: for fire, heat and dryness, and likewise for the remaining three in accordance with these rules, as ye are aware. By them God created all that there is in the worlds of creation, whether of the higher or lower realms. In whatsoever thing these natures came into equilibrium that thing endured the passage of time, as ye behold with the sun and the moon; and in whatsoever thing these natures came not into balance, that thing passed quickly into extinction, even as ye observe to the case with the creatures of the lower worlds. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, JBS2:3 p.35-36, MA4.082; quoted here)

There are four columns to reality and these are tasbih, tahmid, tahlil and takbir - all of these are names whereby God is praised and each one corresponds with one of the four elements: tasbih with air, tahmid with fire, tahlil with water, and takbir with earth. (Excerpt of summary of the Persian Bayan 4:3, provisional translation, P. Terry's trans. p. 34)

Exactly the same elements may exist in two bodies, but in varying quantities. For instance, there is fire and air in water, but the allotted measure is small in proportion. ADP.115

In the rank of the First Remembrance, which is the most great of the degrees of the creation, this First Remembrance must exist for four causes: the creation by God, the very being, the form, and the utility or fruit. Existence is not possible in the world of contingency except by the aid of these four aspects. Each thing, to manifest its existence, must have an element of fire, an element of air and of water to conserve this existence, and an element of earth to accept the degrees. (The Bab, provisional translation, Suriy-i-Tawhid, in Nicolas' le Beyan Arabe, pp. 28-29 and P. Terry's trans., p. 11)

...the two active agents are fire and water, while the two passive agents are earth and air. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.047)




...the bounty of the cloud, the effulgence and heat of the sun and the breath of the vernal zephyrs can transform the tiny seed and develop it into a mighty tree. PUP.420

This is the Day whereon the Ocean of God's mercy hath been manifested unto men, the Day in which the Day Star of His loving-kindness hath shed its radiance upon them, the Day in which the clouds of His bountiful favor have overshadowed the whole of mankind. GWB#005 p007, Ruhi4.1.4

Ye are the stars in the heaven of understanding, the breeze that stirreth at the break of day, the soft-flowing waters upon which must depend the very life of all men, the letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll. GWB#096 p196

O My servants! Be as resigned and submissive as the earth, that from the soil of your being there may blossom the fragrant, the holy and multicolored hyacinths of My knowledge. Be ablaze as the fire, that ye may burn away the veils of heedlessness and set aglow, through the quickening energies of the love of God, the chilled and wayward heart. Be light and untrammeled as the breeze, that ye may obtain admittance into the precincts of My court, My inviolable Sanctuary. GWB#152 p322-323

I know not what the water is with which Thou hast created me, or what the fire Thou hast kindled within me, or the clay wherewith Thou hast kneaded me. PM#009 p012

They that are shut out as by a veil from Thee have imagined that they have the power to put out Thy light, and to quench Thy fire, and to still the winds of Thy grace. PM#011 p014

Roll not up, O my Lord, what hath been spread out in Thy name, and extinguish not the lamp which Thine own fire hath lit. Withhold not, O my Lord, the water that is life indeed from running down - the water from whose murmuring the wondrous melodies which extol and glorify Thee can be heard. Deny not, moreover, Thy servants the sweet fragrance of the breath which hath been wafted through Thy love. PM#047 p069-070

Thou didst lift, to an imperceptible degree, the veil of concealment, and lo, all the inmates of the kingdoms of Thy Revelation and of Thy creation shook and trembled, except those who were created by Thee, through the fire of Thy love, and the breath of Thine eagerness, and the water of Thy loving-kindness, and the clay of Thy grace. PM#179 p308

Remove not, O Lord, the festal board that hath been spread in Thy Name, and extinguish not the burning flame that hath been kindled by Thine unquenchable fire. Withhold not from flowing that living water of Thine that murmureth with the melody of Thy glory and Thy remembrance, and deprive not Thy servants from the fragrance of Thy sweet savors breathing forth the perfume of Thy love. BP.024 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Wherefore, O Cloud of Mercy, grant us some drops of rain. O Flowering Bed of grace, send forth a fragrant breeze. O Sea of all bestowals, roll towards us a great wave. O Sun of Bounty, send down a shaft of light. SWAB#002 p007

So is the work of the Holy Spirit in your hearts. The earthly sun is like the Sun of Truth; the rain is the shower of the mercy of God; the seed is the word of God; the air is the fragrant waves of His Holy Spirit and the soil is the hearts of the people. (Pilgrim notes of May Maxwell, An Early Pilgrimage, p. 19)

For in the foremost station of the heart, the fire of love shineth forth; and in the second, the air of guardianship ascendeth; and in the third, the water of unity surgeth; and in the fourth, the dust of existence is elevated. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.082)
