



Moreover, the journeys in the pathway of love have been reckoned as four: from the creatures to the True One, from the True One to the creatures, from the creatures to the creatures, and from the True One to the True One. CDB#2.52 (was SV.25) (Cf. Mulla Sadra in the al-Asfar al-Arba'ah, in Fakhry's Short Introduction p. 116)

And they have pierced the pearls of knowledge and wisdom with the diamonds of explanation and have designated the stages of Love as being four. And this servant will, in this treatise mention five stages although in the view of this evanescent drop, from one viewpoint, the stages of Love are limitless and countless in number while, from another, they are clearly seen clothed in the garment of oneness. For the variation in the stations of love are from differences of stations and stages and in each world of the worlds and in each stage of the stages there can be seen a magnetism of oneness. Within the grasp of its power is the mutual attraction of the reality of all things and the pulling [together] of the subtlety of Being. And this magnetism of oneness is the station of Love and Attraction. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:015)

Love is only of the four kinds that I have explained. (a) The love of God towards the identity of God. Christ has said God is Love. (b) The love of God for His children - for His servants. (c) The love of man for God and (d) the love of man for man. These four kinds of love originate from God. These are rays from the Sun of Reality; these are the Breathings of the Holy Spirit; these are the Signs of Reality. PT#59:10 p181

...some of those who dwell among the sanctified signs consider that the Love of the True One for the creatures is the appearance of the effulgences of the Divinity [uluhiyyat] and the continuance of the attributes of the Heavenly Realm [Lahutiyyat] in the temples and places of manifestation of the physical world [nasutiyya]. The Love of the servant for the Absolute is the annihilation of the existence and the passing away of the attributes of the physical world in Heavenly Perpetuation [baqa-yi Lahutiyya] and Divine Manifestations. As it has been said: 'The love of God for the servant is the perpetuation of the Heavenly Realm in the passing away [fana] of the physical world. And the love of the servant for God is the passing away of the physical world in Heavenly Perpetuation.' And they have abbreviated matters to these two stages. The attribution of Love to the Lord of Might they recognise as metaphorical. For the Love of the Absolute is fundamental and precedes the love of the servants - as it is said in the blessed verse: 'And God will bring about a people whom He loves and they love Him.' ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:023)

...the variation in the stations of love are from differences of stations and stages and in each world of the worlds and in each stage of the stages there can be seen a magnetism of oneness. Within the grasp of its power is the mutual attraction of the reality of all things and the pulling [together] of the subtlety of Being. And this magnetism of oneness is the station of Love and Attraction (khullat). ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:015)

Abdu'l-Baha said there are five kinds of love: First: The love of His own perfections which caused God to create that His beauty might be made manifest and appreciated. Second: The love between sanctified souls for the attributes of the divine which they see reflected in one another. Third: God's love to man individually that is gained according to the measure in which a man turns to God. Fourth: Man's love for God, the Creator. This is the cause of his life, progress and happiness. Fifth: The love of self, which if directed to the ego will deprive man of all true development, but if the love of self is a realization that one is a creature of God and must therefore attain to the station appointed for him, this love will be an uplifting one. SW v16#02 p422 ("A Brief Account of My Visit to Akka", p. 38)




And when the blessed Tree is kindled by itself within itself, and that Divine Fire burneth by its essence [dhat] within its essence, this is the stage of 'I wished to be made known'. KA n.023; quoting 'Abdu'l-Baha in MKT2:050.

God (al-haqq) wanted to see the essences (archetypes -- al-a'yan) of His most perfect Names (al-asma al-husna) whose number is infinite - and if you like you can equally well say: God wanted to see His own Essence ('ayn) in one global object (creation -- kawn) which having been blessed with existence (al-wujud) summarized the Divine Order (Command -- al-amr) so that there He could manifest His mystery (sirr) to Himself. (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 8)

...Or from the state of unification towards separation so that that Single Essence gazes upon unnumbered manifestations of the light of Its Beauty and that Hidden Unity visualizes Its own peerless Visage in the brilliant mirrors and sanctified places of manifestation. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:016)

The first [kind of love] is the love that flows from God to man; it consists of the inexhaustible graces, the Divine effulgence and heavenly illumination. Through this love the world of being receives life. Through this love man is endowed with physical existence, until, through the Breath of the Holy Spirit - this same love - he receives eternal life and becomes the image of the Living God. This love is the origin of all the love in the world of creation. PT#58:4 p180

There is a particular reason why the concept of Love plays such an important role in Ibn 'Arabi's thought. Its importance is due to the existence of an explicit statement put in the mouth of God Himself in a famous Tradition which may be considered the starting-point, the basis, and the very gist of his philosophy: 'I was a hidden treasure, and I desired (ahbabtu, 'loved') to be known. Accordingly I created the creatures and thereby made Myself known to them. And they did come to know Me.' As this Tradition tells us with utmost clarity, Love (hubb) is the principle which moved the Absolute toward the creation of the world. It is, in this sense, the 'secret of creation' (sirr al-khalq) or the 'cause of creation' ('illah al-khalq).... In the eyes of those who know the truth, all phenomena of movement, on all levels of Being, are caused by 'love'. If it were not for the activity of 'love', everything would remain in the state of eternal rest, i.e., non-movement. And non-movement (sukun) means nothing other than non-existence ('adam). (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 136)

Worldly friends, seeking their own good, appear to love one the other, whereas the true Friend hath loved and doth love you for your own sakes; indeed He hath suffered for your guidance countless afflictions. PHW#52

The world was created through love, and all are commanded to fellowship and unity. Fix your gaze upon and call to remembrance this word which hath shone forth from the mouth of the King of Unity (ahadiyah): Veiled in My immemorial being and in the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.143. Early translation in BSC#472 p.232. Second sentence quotes AHW#03)

Real love is the love which exists between God and His servants, the love which binds together holy souls.  This is the love of the spiritual world, not the love of physical bodies and organisms....  Consider to what extent the love of God makes itself manifest.  Among the signs of His love which appear in the world are the dawning points of His Manifestations.  What an infinite degree of love is reflected by the divine Manifestations toward mankind!  PUP.256

The most basic and primary movement was the movement of the world from the state of non-existence (i.e., the archetypal state), in which it had been reposing, into the state of existence. This is the reason why it is said that the reality of existence is a movement from the state of repose. And the movement which is coming into existence of the world is a movement of Love. This is clearly indicated by the Apostle when he says (conveying God's own words): 'I was a hidden treasure, and I loved to be known.' If it were not for this love, the world would never have appeared in this concrete existence. In this sense, the movement of the world toward existence was a movement of Love which brought it into existence. (Ibn 'Arabi, In Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, pp. 136-137. Cf. Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, pp. 104-105)

Love is greater than peace, for peace is founded upon love.  Love is the object point of peace, and peace is an outcome of love.  Until love is attained, peace cannot be; but there is a so-called peace without love. The love which is from God is the fundamental. This love is the object of all human attainment, the radiance of heaven, the light of man. PUP.169

...beyond and above all these lower powers we discover in the being of man the attraction of the heart, the susceptibilities and affinities which bind men together, enabling them to live and associate in friendship and solidarity.... But these are only degrees of love which exist in the natural or physical world.  Their manifestation is ever according to the requirement of natural conditions and standards.  Real love is the love which exists between God and His servants, the love which binds together holy souls. PUP.256

He who attaineth to My love hath title to a throne of gold, to sit thereon in honour over all the world; he who is deprived thereof, though he sit upon the dust, that dust would seek refuge with God, the Lord of all Religions. KA#036

Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us first.... 1 Jn 4:10         We love him, because he first loved us. 1 Jn 4:19




Or from the state of separation towards separation - thus most human beings can see the reflections of the Absolute Beauty in the mirrors of the realities of Possible Being and can see the dawning of the light of the Divine Morn in the places of Manifestation of existent beings. This is the station of which it is said: 'We shall show them our signs on the horizons'. This is the station of certain knowledge. And know that this effulgence may break forth, on certain occasions, upon the lovers of the beauty of the Peerless One and upon those attracted to the Mighty Presence within the places of manifestation and mirrors. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:016-017)

The fourth [kind of love] is the love of man for man. The love which exists between the hearts of believers is prompted by the ideal of the unity of spirits. This love is attained through the knowledge of God, so that men see the Divine Love reflected in the heart. Each sees in the other the Beauty of God reflected in the soul, and finding this point of similarity, they are attracted to one another in love. This love will make all men the waves of one sea, this love will make them all the stars of one heaven.... But the love which sometimes exists between friends is not (true) love, because it is subject to transmutation; this is merely fascination. As the breeze blows, the slender trees yield. If the wind if in the East the tree leans to the West, and if the wind turns to the West the tree leans to the East. This kind of love is originated by the accidental conditions of life. This is not love, it is merely acquaintanceship; it is subject to change. PT#58:7-8 p180-181

Be as brilliant as the light and as splendid as the fire that blazed in the Burning Bush. The brightness of the fire of your love will no doubt fuse and unify the contending peoples and kindreds of the earth, whilst the fierceness of the flame of enmity and hatred cannot but result in strife and ruin. GWB#043 p096, TB.088

Love is the spirit of life unto the adorned body of mankind, the establisher of true civilization in this mortal world, and the shedder of imperishable glory upon every high-aiming race and nation. SWAB#012 p027

The essence of Baha'u'llah's Teaching is all-embracing love, for love includeth every excellence of humankind. It causeth every soul to go forward. It bestoweth on each one, for a heritage, immortal life. SWAB#031 p066

...order your lives in accordance with the first principle of the divine teaching, which is love. Service to humanity is service to God. Let the love and light of the Kingdom radiate through you until all who look upon you shall be illumined by its reflection. PUP.008

Love is greater than peace, for peace is founded upon love.  Love is the object point of peace, and peace is an outcome of love.  Until love is attained, peace cannot be; but there is a so-called peace without love. The love which is from God is the fundamental. This love is the object of all human attainment, the radiance of heaven, the light of man. PUP.169

...beyond and above all these lower powers we discover in the being of man the attraction of the heart, the susceptibilities and affinities which bind men together, enabling them to live and associate in friendship and solidarity.... But these are only degrees of love which exist in the natural or physical world.  Their manifestation is ever according to the requirement of natural conditions and standards.  Real love is the love which exists between God and His servants, the love which binds together holy souls. PUP.256

Love manifests its reality in deeds, not only in words - these alone are without effect. In order that love may manifest its power there must be an object, an instrument, a motive. PT#09:2 p035

The great unselfish love for humanity is bounded by none of these imperfect, semi-selfish bonds; this is the one perfect love, possible to all mankind, and can only be achieved by the power of the Divine Spirit. No worldly power can accomplish the universal love. PT#09:14 p037

Love is the fundamental principle of God's purpose for man, and He has commanded us to love each other even as He loves us. PT#39:19 p122

What a power is love! It is the most wonderful, the greatest of all living powers.... In the world of existence there is indeed no greater power than the power of love. PT#58:1-3 p179

There are two kinds of Love - the material and the spiritual. Material love means the attachment of men to each other, whether it be friendship or any other relation and it always ends in grief, for the spiritual love is the only enduring love.... Material love is divided into two kinds - the animal and the human love. (Abdu'l-Baha, "Pilgrim notes Taken at the Holy Household", pp. 5-7)

...the love which exists among the beloved of God is everlasting for it is a divine bounty, a godly appearance, a melody of the Kingdom and a heavenly cohesion. ... this love which is among the beloved is a divine bounty, a godly splendor, an eternal manifestation and the power of divinity: it is perpetual. SW v01#08 p006 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Love is, indeed, a most potent elixir that can transform the vilest and meanest of people into heavenly souls. LG#741 (6 Dec. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The love which Baha'u'llah wishes us to acquire is a love that embraces the whole mankind. The reason why one feels attracted is due to such gifts and qualities with which the soul is endowed and which exert a powerful and latent influence. LG#1342 (20 Nov. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is not possible for us to love every one with a personal love, but we must love all humanity alike. (Abdu'l-Baha) SW v15#03 p153

If I love you, I need not continually speak of my love -- you will know without any words. On the other hand if I love you not, that also will you know -- and you would not believe me, were I to tell you in a thousand words, that I loved you. PT#01:13 p017, Ruhi6.1.27

This love amongst the believers is the magnet which will, above all else, attract the hearts and bring new souls into the Cause. Because obviously the teachings -- however wonderful -- cannot change the world unless the Spirit of Baha'u'llah's love is mirrored in the Baha'i Communities. COC#1302 (27 Oct. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

You must manifest complete love and affection toward all mankind. Do not exalt yourselves above others, but consider all as your equals, recognizing them as the servants of one God. Know that God is compassionate toward all; therefore, love all from the depths of your hearts, prefer all religionists before yourselves, be filled with love for every race, and be kind toward the people of all nationalities. PUP.452

By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another. John 13:35

The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord: And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. Mark 12:29-31

Ultimately, the power to transform the world is effected by love, love originating from the relationship with the divine, love ablaze among members of a community, love extended without restriction to every human being. This divine love, ignited by the Word of God, is disseminated by enkindled souls through intimate conversations that create new susceptibilities in human hearts, open minds to moral persuasion, and loosen the hold of biased norms and social systems so that they can gradually take on a new form in keeping with the requirements of humanity's age of maturity. You are channels for this divine love; let it flow through you to all who cross your path. Infuse it into every neighborhood and social space in which you move to build capacity to canalize the society-building power of Baha'u'llah's Revelation. There can be no rest until the destined outcome is achieved. (22 July 2020 from the Universal House of Justice)

The underlying foundation upon which the Kingdom rests is love and this must be securely established among the friends and must be widely spread so that it may become the cause of the establishment of the oneness of mankind. This love must be so intensified among the friends as to make of them true servants of one another expending their wealth and sacrificing their lives for one another and consecrating their being to the existence of other souls. Then ye shall observe how people will flock and gather under the shade of the pavilion of the oneness of mankind. SW_v13#12 p.343x, AB08065




If the wayfarers be among them that seek after the sanctuary of the Desired One, this plane pertaineth to the self--but the self which is intended is "the Self of God that pervadeth all His laws". In this station the self is not rejected but beloved; it is regarded with favour and is not to be shunned. Although at the beginning this plane is the realm of conflict, yet it endeth in the ascent to the throne of glory. CDB#7.09 (was SV.50)

As for the fifth stage, it is that spiritual attraction and that ecstatic love of the lovers of the Beauteous One for the beauty within their own self. This is to be counted as a station and a stage of Affection from the state of unification towards unification because this station is created from Divine [Lahuti] elements and has come into being from Heavenly [rabbani] subtleties. ...a wayfarer in this stage leaves the wilderness of annihilation and perplexed wandering and comes upon the shore of the boundless ocean and limitless sea: 'And in yourselves do you not see?' And he enters the rose-garden of the reality and the garden of the guidance of: 'Read your own book, your self is sufficient to give an account against you today.'... He sees all the [Divine] Names appearing from the dawning-place of his name and he finds all the [Divine] Attributes dawning from the horizon of his essence [dhat]. He sees his own beauty annihilated in the Beauty of the True One and finds the Beauty of the True One enduring in the beauty of his self. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:021)

And if someone assumed that the origin of love was the longing for beauty itself which was there before in men's souls, and their recognition of it and kinship with it and unreasoned awareness that it is something of their own, he would hit, I think, on the truth about its cause. Plotinus, Enn.III.5.1         But contemplate it without casting your thought outwards. For it does not lie somewhere leaving the other things empty of it, but is always present to anyone who is able to touch it... Plotinus, Enn.VI.9.7




Furthermore some of those who gaze upon the secrets of oneness have sung this divine song and this heavenly sound in explaining the reality of Love: that Love is true attraction towards one's own beauty either in the state of unification [jam'] or separation [tafsil]. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:016)




Love the creatures for the sake of God and not for themselves. You will never become angry or impatient if you love them for the sake of God. Humanity is not perfect. There are imperfections in every human being, and you will always become unhappy if you look toward the people themselves. But if you look toward God, you will love them and be kind to them, for the world of God is the world of perfection and complete mercy. Therefore, do not look at the shortcomings of anybody; see with the sight of forgiveness. The imperfect eye beholds imperfections. The eye that covers faults looks toward the Creator of souls. He created them, trains and provides for them, endows them with capacity and life, sight and hearing; therefore, they are the signs of His grandeur. You must love and be kind to everybody, care for the poor, protect the weak, heal the sick, teach and educate the ignorant. PUP.093, Ruhi2.2.4 (x2)

When you love a member of your family or a compatriot, let it be with a ray of the Infinite Love! Let it be in God, and for God! Wherever you find the attributes of God love that person, whether he be of your family or of another. PT#09:21 p038, Ruhi6.1.28

We must love God, and in this state, a general love for all men becomes possible. We cannot love each human being for himself but our feeling towards humanity should be motivated by our love for the Father who created all men. LG#1341, UD.458 (4 Oct. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

My thoughts are turned towards you, and my heart leaps within me at your mention. Could ye know how my soul glows with your love, so great a happiness would flood your hearts as to cause you to become enamored with each other. WOB.077 (Abdu'l-Baha)

...love of God, and consequently of men, is the essential foundation of every religion, our own included. A greater degree of love will produce a greater unity, because it enables people to bear with each other, to be patient and forgiving. COC#1299 (7 Jul. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

They should manifest gratitude and thankfulness to God, and the best way to thank God is to love one another. PUP.468




My thoughts are turned towards you, and my heart leaps within me at your mention. Could ye know how my soul glows with your love, so great a happiness would flood your hearts as to cause you to become enamored with each other. WOB.077 (Abdu'l-Baha)




Beyond all else, it is a demonstration of that love for His children, which He knew in the depth of His "immemorial being" and in the "ancient eternity" of His Essence, and which caused Him to create us all. In the noblest sense, then, attention to the requirements of His World Order is a reciprocation of that love. M86-01 60.10 (29 Dec. 1988 from The Universal House of Justice)




Were it not for the love of God, discord and division would not be transmuted into fellowship. Were it not for the love of God, estrangement would not give way to unity. Were it not for the love of God, the stranger would not become the friend. Indeed, love in the human world is a ray of the love of God and a reflection of the grace of His bounty. SAQ#84.3 (was SAQ.301)




If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar. 1 Jn 4:20
