



A praise sanctified from the mention of all mankind befitteth the sublime and most holy court of the Desired One, Who hath ordained that the completion of every existence be realized through the seven stages of Will, Purpose, predestination, fate, permission, fixed time, and the book, each of which is a bountiful and shoreless sea whose pearls are preserved and concealed within the shells of the inviolability of God, exalted be His glory. In truth, should a man desire to expound upon these stages and stations, each of which is a wellspring of divine knowledge and a dawning-place of heavenly wisdom, he could not exhaust this theme with this pen and paper, and in the realm of true understanding, which is the seat of those who are nigh unto God, the pens and papers of the world would also not suffice him. He is the All-Powerful, Who hath made whatsoever He hath created, whether the atoms, that which is beneath them, or that which is above them, each a sign indicating and proclaiming His grandeur and sovereignty, His power and might, His generosity, bounty, and favor....     Concerning what thou didst write about good luck and fortune, destiny and fate, whatever is outwardly observed and confirmed is in accord with that which hath been decreed. "Nothing cometh into existence in the heavens or on the earth save through Will, Purpose, predestination, fate, permission, fixed-time, and the book." Every soul who entereth this world entereth with innumerable means, which although invisible to outward vision are true and fact. Whatever is irrevocably decreed by fate cannot be changed, but whatever remaineth potential can be changed through means and actions. The first inclination that is created in man, before the appearance of means, is the stage of the Will; the first conception of means is the stage of Purpose; predestination is the stage of scheme and dimension, that is to say, the appearance of means in proper quantity. Fate is the composition of that which hath been decreed.     Much hath been written about the stage of predestination. For example: "Predestination is a secret from God's secret, a command from His command, and a treasury from His treasury sealed with the seal of God." Furthermore, it is described as "a billowing ocean which cannot be exhausted and a pitch dark night which cannot be traversed. Its vastness is that of heaven and earth, its breadth containeth the East and the West, and in its depth a sun is shining."     Man observeth these seven stages in his own development. After the appearance of fate, execution becometh evident, and it is the same as the stage of permission. For every created thing its fixed-time, in other words, the duration of its existence, is set. After the fixed-time, the book, which is the stage of the completion of a thing, shall be laid bare and made manifest. To God belongeth praise this day! The foundation of all stations is manifest, and it is detachment from all things and submission to His behest. In this case, these stations themselves are unveiled. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA8.191-192, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages)

In the station of the unity of acts, it is incumbent upon the believer in God to acknowledge no creator besides Him, and in all things to transcend both the judgment of compulsion [jabr] and of absolute delegation to creation [tafwid] - for these are sheer unbelief. Rather, every thing to which the designation of "thing" can be applied - its Creator is God alone, through seven characteristics, by His Own volition. From the perspective of truth, there is no distinction in the creation of contingent realities and the attributes of existential entities. Verily, the deed of the doers is neither compulsion nor delegation, but rather the Command of God is a matter beyond these two. And this Command is vaster than what lieth between the heaven of Will and the earth of inanimate matter, which is the ultimate degree of receptivity. The mystery of this Command is that God knoweth the volitions of all things, and createth all according to the way of their volitions, and rewardeth them according to their voluntary nature. Were He to create anything beyond the station of its own receptivity, He would have wronged it. (The Bab, BB00017, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.075-076)

And verily the mystery of the Command is that none beholdeth the manifestation of God's act as it is in itself, save through the revelation of the volitions of things as they are and as they proceed unto that which hath no end. None seeth any light save His light, nor any wisdom save His wisdom, for naught existeth in the heavens or earths except through seven degrees which are the stations of the Family of God - the peace of God be upon them. Verily the servant, at the time of action, acteth through the action of destiny from the presence of the All-Informed, the All-Knowing, for God, glorified be He, hath ever known the volitions of all and their course. According to this doth He requite them their qualities and grant them their due. And verily this volition is concomitant with the existence of a thing... This is the mystery of destiny, whereby the people who gaze upon the heart see no act save the Act of God, and no effectual power save God. (The Bab, BB00021, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.076-077)

Thou hast asked concerning the motion and stillness of all things according to the Will of God. Know this of a truth, for He Who is the Lord of grace abounding is the sustainer of all things. Should the aid of God be withheld from the world of being, no created thing would be able to move. It is not meant, however, that everything hath been foreordained, but rather that if the assistance of God be severed from the world, the entire creation would be bereft of the capacity to move. For instance, if the assistance of the spirit was to be severed from the limbs and members of the human body, every limb would be impotent to move. Nevertheless, such a motion is engendered at the request and pleasure of the soul rather than the spirit. How oft hath the spirit longed for sanctity and desired to attain the abode of the Well-Beloved, but the concupiscent soul hath gained ascendancy and suffered man with an impulse that hath caused the resentment of the spirit. It is in this regard that it hath been said: "There is neither motion nor stillness except by God." (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha, AvK1.079-080, http://peyman.sazedj.org/node/29)

Know that the qada is a decisive judgment (hukm, or decree) of God concerning the things. God's decisive judgment concerning things is given in strict accordance with His Knowledge of the latter themselves and their properties. And God's Knowledge about the things is based on what is given by the very essences of the things. And the qadar is the specification of the appointed time at which each of the things should actually occur in accordance with its archetypal state without any alteration. But the qada itself, when it decides upon the destiny of each thing, does so only in accordance with its archetype. And this is the mystery of the qadar.... (Ibn 'Arabi, in Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 176)

O servant of the one true God! Know verily, that there is neither predestination nor unconditional liberty. It is neither unwilling compliance nor unreserved authority. What is meant by the Middle Way (between both extremities) is that God is the sustainer of the world of being, but He hath endowed His creatures with the capacity to act. Were it not for the sustaining power of His assistance, all upon the earth would pass away. By its aid, however, "every one acteth after his own manner" and "all do We sustain, both these and those; to none shall the bounty of thy Lord be denied." Should the wind cease to blow, that is, if the assistance of God be withheld, the ship would be unable to move. It would neither move to the right nor to the left. But when the wind lendeth its assistance, the ship is set into motion. The inmates of the ship, however, steer it in whatever direction they please. Therefore the ship's motion, whether to the right or to the left, is generated through the assistance of the wind, and yet the sailors set the course of its movement. It is neither unconditional liberty for the ship saileth not through its own power, nor is it predestination, for the sailors of the ship steer it in whatever direction they please. This is the Middle Way. Reflect upon this utterance that thou mayest grasp its true significance. (From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha, MMK3#029, http://peyman.sazedj.org/node/30)




This is My counsel unto thee and unto the beloved of God. Whosoever wisheth, let him turn thereunto; whosoever wisheth, let him turn away. KI#023 p024

When you consider nature itself, however, you see that it has neither awareness nor will. For instance, the nature of fire is to burn; it burns without consciousness or will. The nature of water is to flow; it flows without consciousness or will. The nature of the sun is to shed light; it shines without consciousness or will. The nature of vapour is to rise; it rises without consciousness or will. It is therefore evident that the natural movements of all created things are compelled, and that nothing moves of its own will save animals and, in particular, man. Man is able to resist and oppose nature inasmuch as he discovers the natures of things and, by virtue of this discovery, has mastery over nature itself. Indeed, all the crafts that man has devised proceed from this discovery. SAQ#1.3-4 (was SAQ.003)

'If God hath pleased He had surely made all men one people.' His purpose, however, is to enable the pure in spirit and the detached in heart to ascend, by virtue of their own innate powers, unto the shores of the Most Great Ocean, that thereby they who seek the Beauty of the All-Glorious may be distinguished and separated from the wayward and perverse. GWB#029 p071

The incomparable Creator hath created all men from one same substance, and hath exalted their reality above the rest of His creatures. Success or failure, gain or loss, must, therefore, depend upon man's own exertions. The more he striveth, the greater will be his progress. GWB#034 p081-082

All that which ye potentially possess can, however, be manifested only as a result of your own volition.... Every good thing is of God, and every evil thing is from yourselves. Will ye not comprehend? GWB#077 p149, Ruhi7.1.10

Whosoever desireth, let him turn aside from this counsel and whosoever desireth, let him chose the path to his Lord. BP.211 (Baha'u'llah)

Know thou that every soul is fashioned after the nature of God, each being pure and holy at his birth. Afterwards, however, the individuals will vary according to what they acquire of virtues or vices in this world. Although all existent beings are in their very nature created in ranks or degrees, for capacities are various, nevertheless every individual is born holy and pure, and only thereafter may he become defiled. SWAB#159 p190

Certain matters are subject to the free will of man, such as acting with justice and fairness, or injustice and iniquity--in other words, the choice of good or evil actions. It is clear and evident that the will of man figures greatly in these actions. But there are certain matters where man is forced and compelled, such as sleep, death, sickness, failing powers, misfortune, and material loss: These are not subject to the will of man and he is not accountable for them, for he is compelled to endure them. But he is free in the choice of good and evil actions, and it is of his own accord that he performs them. SAQ#70.3 (was SAQ.248)

Man hath the powers of will and understanding, but nature hath them not. Nature is constrained, man is free.  Nature is bereft of understanding, but man understandeth. Forel.12

Man alone has freedom, and, by his understanding or intellect, has been able to gain control of and adapt some of those natural laws to his own needs. PT#11:6 p042

And as for [the objection] that has been mentioned previously concerning the fact that if [the concepts of] bringing into being and origination become attached to realities and potentialities, it becomes necessary to postulate compulsion and force in the creation of the True and Self-Sufficient One. And this would deny the complete Justice and all-embracing Mercy of God.... For example with respect to the sun and its rays, the degree of its effusion and action with respect to its rays is identical. And yet the rays according to their own desire and pleasure can be found hundreds and thousands of miles from the sun while some encircle close to the sun. Therefore notice that the fact that rays are scattered from the sun to far and near does not mean that the sun has arranged some of them to be near and some of them to be distant but rather in bestowing existence it makes no distinction or augmentation with respect to any. It has manifested all with the same effulgence. But each, according to its own desire, has accepted a particular station and status. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:038-039)

God Himself cannot compel the soul to become spiritual. The exercise of a free human will is necessary. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of 'Akka, p.6)

...all the doings of man are sustained by the power of divine assistance, but the choice of good or evil belongs to him alone. SAQ#70.7 (was SAQ.250)

The Lord God pleased to give the human being three great mysteries (secrets, riddles) on his journey through life. The final unveiling of them will only occur when our soul has shed its earthly body. The three mysteries are: 1. The great mystery of good and evil. 2. The mystery of the suffering of infants and of the animal (i.e. of the innocent creature). 3. The mystery of the human right to self-determination -- of free will. All of the great Manifestations of God, Moses, Christ, Muhammed, Baha'u'llah and others show that these three different questions are co-related. (Pilgrim notes of Dr. Fallscheer, Mar. 1910)

And verily the mystery of the Command is that none beholdeth the manifestation of God's act as it is in itself, save through the revelation of the volitions of things as they are and as they proceed unto that which hath no end. None seeth any light save His light, nor any wisdom save His wisdom, for naught existeth in the heavens or earths except through seven degrees which are the stations of the Family of God - the peace of God be upon them. Verily the servant, at the time of action, acteth through the action of destiny from the presence of the All-Informed, the All-Knowing, for God, glorified be He, hath ever known the volitions of all and their course. According to this doth He requite them their qualities and grant them their due. And verily this volition is concomitant with the existence of a thing... This is the mystery of destiny, whereby the people who gaze upon the heart see no act save the Act of God, and no effectual power save God. (The Bab, BB00021, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.076-077)

Know thou that the Ancient Power is the mover of the world and the source of transformation of hearts and insight. That which induces a person to act is his resolve, his motivation, his capacity and his aptitude. The human being and the tree are both in motion and the mover for both is God. However, the movement of the human being is dissimilar from that of the tree for the movement of the former is based on choice, willpower and motivation and the movement of the latter is without volition or preference, and the mover is the Almighty, the All-Compelling. This is what is meant by 'neither by force, nor by deference, neither abhorrence, nor by command, but the middle way'. For if thou observest carefully, thou wilt see this movement in all creatures whether trees, humans, animals or articles and the mover for all is the Lord of the creation. However, the movement of the tree differs from that of the human inasmuch as a man's movement is based on his willpower, therefore there is no compulsion, 'verily we wronged them not, but they have wronged themselves'. There is no conferment here as the mover is God. Say, verily, all are from God. And there existeth a balance between the conditions of force and deference. Here is another example; when a violent wind blows over land and sea, thou witnessest the ship stirring to the east and to the west. The mover here is the fierce wind, without which the ship is stationery. Therefore, there is no submission. However, when the captain steers the helm to the east, the ship moves in that direction with the thrust of the wind, and when he steers it to the west, the ship moves westward as God, Exalted is He, saieth: 'On all will We bestow the blessings of this life, both on these and on those, of the gift of thy Lord; for the gift of thy Lord shall not be denied unto any'. Thus it is proved that there is no force but it is left to the will of man and his motivation. AvK1.080, PC01527 (provisional translation)

Man, in matters pertaining to praiseworthy attributes and the rectification of character, and to that which is the cause of his advancement to exalted spiritual stations, is free... but as to universal matters and laws the power of man hath no sway. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.081)

All universal beings and particular beings are firmly bound by the chains and fetters of nature, unable to transgress by an atom's weight - save human beings. By nature's law, humans should be prey to wild beasts, yet humans make wild beasts their captives. Humans bequeath to future centuries the heritage of knowledge and science from present ages. By nature's law, cause and effect are yoked together, with effect vanishing upon the absence of cause - yet human effects become manifest after death. Humans, contrary to nature's law, make the fruitless tree bear fruit. Humans, opposing nature, transform deadly poisons into means of life, employing them as remedies. Humans reveal all earth's treasures - meaning minerals - which by nature's law are hidden and concealed. By nature's law, humans dwell upon the earth, yet through spiritual power they break these firm laws of nature and wrest the sword from nature's hand to strike nature's crown. They soar in the air, race upon the sea's surface, and journey beneath the waters. Humans are discoverers of nature's mysteries, while nature discovers not human mysteries. They bring forth realities and secrets from the realm of the unseen to the visible plane, and communicate with East and West in a minute - this is contrary to nature's law. They confine and imprison free sound within an instrument - this is contrary to nature's law. While remaining in their own center, they consult, confer and converse with distant places - this is contrary to nature's law. Humans confine and imprison electrical force - so powerful it splits mountains - within a glass bulb. While on earth, they make celestial discoveries - this is contrary to nature's law. Humans have free will, nature is compelled. Humans have consciousness, nature lacks consciousness. Humans are living, nature lacks life. Humans discover future matters, nature is heedless of them. Through known premises, humans discover unknown conclusions, while nature is powerless to do so. (Abdu'l-Baha, ABU0255, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.218, KHT3:012)

If it be Our pleasure We shall render the Cause victorious through the power of a single word from Our presence. He is in truth the Omnipotent, the All-Compelling. Should it be God's intention, there would appear out of the forests of celestial might the lion of indomitable strength whose roaring is like unto the peals of thunder reverberating in the mountains. However, since Our loving providence surpasseth all things, We have ordained that complete victory should be achieved through speech and utterance, that Our servants throughout the earth may thereby become the recipients of divine good. This is but a token of God's bounty vouchsafed unto them. TB.197-198, Ruhi6.1.12

Indeed, all who have endeavoured to explain the problem of Destiny have advocated either absolute divine determinism or human choice, and thus all the philosophers have confessed their powerlessness to explain the truth of this question. Indeed, this verily is the truth, inasmuch as the philosophers wanted to explain the divine truth, the Middle Path between absolute determinism and absolute freedom, by proofs of reason, which is, however, impossible. For, verily, reason, even in its utmost level of abstraction, is confined to understanding mere limited phenomenona, which fail to guide humans unto the summit of the delight of their heart. Thus, he who abideth upon the throne of the kingdom of reason hath no recourse but to believe in either determinism or absolute freedom. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.211)

And the truth of this mystery [of Destiny] is that none can behold the manifestation of the Action of God, as it befitteth Him, save through the very manifestation of the free choice of the things themselves.... Verily, at the time of action, the human being is the agent, who acteth by virtue of the Destiny-ordaining Action of the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.... Indeed, that free choice is bound to the existence of each thing, and naught is called into existence except through its free choice. Verily, at the primordial moment of choice, when God said unto the thing, "Am I not your Lord?" it would not have replied, "Yea," had it been deprived of freedom of choice. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.214)

It is in the station of Destiny that pluralities appear, lights are distinguished from shadows, and essences are differentiated from attributes. It is by virtue of this station that the wicked becometh wicked on account of his free choice, and the just becometh just, through the grace of God, on account of his free choice. Thus Destiny is "the womb of the pure realm of contingency" and "the most great depth".... Verily, the reason for the manifestation of these distinctions in the station of Destiny is the very manifestation of freedom inasmuch as, verily, naught cometh into being in the world save through its own free choice.... (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.214)

O servant of the one true God! Know verily, that there is neither predestination nor unconditional liberty. It is neither unwilling compliance nor unreserved authority. What is meant by the Middle Way (between both extremities) is that God is the sustainer of the world of being, but He hath endowed His creatures with the capacity to act. Were it not for the sustaining power of His assistance, all upon the earth would pass away. By its aid, however, "every one acteth after his own manner" and "all do We sustain, both these and those; to none shall the bounty of thy Lord be denied." Should the wind cease to blow, that is, if the assistance of God be withheld, the ship would be unable to move. It would neither move to the right nor to the left. But when the wind lendeth its assistance, the ship is set into motion. The inmates of the ship, however, steer it in whatever direction they please. Therefore the ship's motion, whether to the right or to the left, is generated through the assistance of the wind, and yet the sailors set the course of its movement. It is neither unconditional liberty for the ship saileth not through its own power, nor is it predestination, for the sailors of the ship steer it in whatever direction they please. This is the Middle Way. Reflect upon this utterance that thou mayest grasp its true significance. (From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha, MMK3#029, http://peyman.sazedj.org/node/30)




In one sense all the events are decreed. The decree itself is a proof of their irrevocability. (But its explanation) will remain, at the present time, hidden in the heaven of Mashiyyat, until such time as it may come forth from the Jabarut-i-mashiyyat to the Malakut-i-bayan and be written down by the Pen of Providence. These limitations of degree and station are due to human conditions and worldly means which have been created from the will of contingent things (mashiyyat-i-imkaniyyih) and unto which they will return. All that is with God and His own Will are and will continue to be sanctified from any condition of limitation. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.062)

Have they not considered within themselves that God hath not created the heavens and the earth and all that is between them but for a serious end, and for a fixed term? ESW.117 (Qur'an 30:7)

...the mesh of divine destiny (qada) exceedeth the vastest of mortal conceptions, and the dart of His decree (taqdir) transcendeth the boldest of human designs. None can escape the snare He setteth, and no soul can find release except through submission to His will. KI#280 p251

...not a leaf will stir upon a tree and not a fruit will fall except by the Will of thy Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate. (Abdu'l-Baha on the stages of the soul, provisional translation, MKT1:091; cf Qur'an 6:59)

...in truth, whatever taketh place is well-pleasing, for the divine wisdom hath ordained it. Without His command and will not a leaf can stir, and whatever occureth is conformable to wisdom. All must be contented with it, nay eagerly desire it.... 'It is impossible for the realm of creation to be better than it already is.' (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in JBS5:4, p.59)

Moreover, man's stillness or motion itself is conditioned upon the aid of God. Should this assistance fail to reach him, he can do neither good nor evil. But when the assistance of the all-bounteous Lord confers existence upon man, he is capable of both good and evil. And should that assistance be cut off, he would become absolutely powerless. That is why the aid and assistance of God are mentioned in the Sacred Scriptures. This condition can be likened to that of a ship that moves by the power of wind or steam. Should this power be cut off, the ship would become entirely unable to move. Nevertheless, in whatever direction the rudder is turned, the power of the steam propels the ship in that direction. If the rudder is turned to the east, the ship moves eastward, and if it is directed to the west, the ship moves west. This motion does not arise from the ship itself, but from the wind or steam. SAQ#70.6 (was SAQ.249)

Whatsoever may happen is for the best, because affliction is but the essence of bounty, and sorrow and toil are mercy unalloyed, and anguish is peace of mind, and to make a sacrifice is to receive a gift, and whatsoever may come to pass hath issued from God's grace. SWAB#200 p245

Afflictions and troubles are due to the state of not being content with what God has ordained for one. If one submits himself to God, he is always happy. A man asked another: 'In what station are you?' The other answered: 'In the utmost happiness.' 'Where does this happiness come from?' 'Because all existing things move according to my wish. I do not find anything contrary to my desire. Therefore I have no sorrow. There is no doubt that all the beings move by the Will of God, and I have given up my own will, desiring the Will of God. Thus my will became the Will of God, for there is nothing of myself. All are moving by His Will, yet they are moving by my own will. In this case, I am very happy.' When man surrenders himself, everything will move according to his wish. DJT.059-060

Whatsoever thou dost behold in the world, though to outward seeming it be contrary to the will of the Manifestations of God, yet inwardly it hath ever been and shall remain in accordance with the will of God.... If a soul should meditate upon this utterance he would observe that not a single atom moveth save by the Will of God, and that no one understandeth a single letter save by that same Will. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tablet to Salman, AvK1.093-094)

Thou hast asked concerning the motion and stillness of all things according to the Will of God. Know this of a truth, for He Who is the Lord of grace abounding is the sustainer of all things. Should the aid of God be withheld from the world of being, no created thing would be able to move. It is not meant, however, that everything hath been foreordained, but rather that if the assistance of God be severed from the world, the entire creation would be bereft of the capacity to move. For instance, if the assistance of the spirit was to be severed from the limbs and members of the human body, every limb would be impotent to move. Nevertheless, such a motion is engendered at the request and pleasure of the soul rather than the spirit. How oft hath the spirit longed for sanctity and desired to attain the abode of the Well-Beloved, but the concupiscent soul hath gained ascendancy and suffered man with an impulse that hath caused the resentment of the spirit. It is in this regard that it hath been said: "There is neither motion nor stillness except by God." (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha, AvK1.079-080, http://peyman.sazedj.org/node/29)

Know thou that the Ancient Power is the mover of the world and the source of transformation of hearts and insight. That which induces a person to act is his resolve, his motivation, his capacity and his aptitude. The human being and the tree are both in motion and the mover for both is God. However, the movement of the human being is dissimilar from that of the tree for the movement of the former is based on choice, willpower and motivation and the movement of the latter is without volition or preference, and the mover is the Almighty, the All-Compelling. This is what is meant by 'neither by force, nor by deference, neither abhorrence, nor by command, but the middle way'. For if thou observest carefully, thou wilt see this movement in all creatures whether trees, humans, animals or articles and the mover for all is the Lord of the creation. However, the movement of the tree differs from that of the human inasmuch as a man's movement is based on his willpower, therefore there is no compulsion, 'verily we wronged them not, but they have wronged themselves'. There is no conferment here as the mover is God. Say, verily, all are from God. And there existeth a balance between the conditions of force and deference. Here is another example; when a violent wind blows over land and sea, thou witnessest the ship stirring to the east and to the west. The mover here is the fierce wind, without which the ship is stationery. Therefore, there is no submission. However, when the captain steers the helm to the east, the ship moves in that direction with the thrust of the wind, and when he steers it to the west, the ship moves westward as God, Exalted is He, saieth: 'On all will We bestow the blessings of this life, both on these and on those, of the gift of thy Lord; for the gift of thy Lord shall not be denied unto any'. Thus it is proved that there is no force but it is left to the will of man and his motivation. AvK1.080, PC01527 (provisional translation)

I swear by the incomparable, the one true God! No atom in the heavens and the earth moveth except by the leave of the Ancient Beauty and the good-pleasure of His will. Well is He able to search what lieth concealed in the hearts of men, and powerful is He to subdue the world and all that is therein by a word of His mouth. But were He to manifest such tokens, every man would either willingly or unwillingly acknowledge the truth of His Cause. Since such an acknowledgment is of no worth, the revelations of Divine power are, at one time, made manifest, while at another, they are withheld and concealed. At the time of their manifestation, those who are present are drawn nigh unto the heaven of the seen, while at the time of their concealment the steadfast are separated from them who are the victims of their idle fancies. (From a Tablet of Baha'u'llah, MA8.009, http://peyman.sazedj.org/node/27)




...the decrees of the Sovereign Ordainer, as related to fate (qada) and predestination (qadar), are of two kinds. Both are to be obeyed and accepted. The one is irrevocable (mahtum), the other is, as termed by men, impending (mu'allaq). To the former all must unreservedly submit, inasmuch as it is fixed and settled. God, however, is able to alter or repeal it. As the harm that must result from such a change will be greater than if the decree had remained unaltered, all, therefore, should willingly acquiesce in what God hath willed and confidently abide by the same. The decree that is impending, however, is such that prayer and entreaty can succeed in averting it. GWB#068 p133

Fate is of two kinds: One is irrevocable and the other is conditional, or, as it is said, impending. Irrevocable fate is that which cannot be changed or altered, while conditional fate is that which may or may not occur. Thus, the irrevocable fate for this lamp is that its oil will be burnt and consumed. Its eventual extinction is therefore certain, and it is impossible to change or alter this outcome, for such is its irrevocable fate. Likewise, a power has been created in the body of man whose depletion and exhaustion leads inevitably to the disintegration of the body. It is even as the oil in this lamp: After it has been burnt and consumed, the lamp will assuredly be extinguished. But conditional fate may be likened to this: While some oil yet remains, a strong wind blows and extinguishes the lamp. This fate is conditional. It is expedient to avoid this fate... SAQ#68.2-3 (was SAQ.244)

...there are two decrees (ajal) for everything: The first is the impending (conditional) decree and the second the irrevocable decree. MA1.061, AvK1.271 (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation)

There are two kinds of death. One is preordained and the other is dependent upon many things. For example, a lamp is filled with oil and it will burn as long as the oil will last. This is preordained.... Another lamp may be filled, but a strong wind arising may put out the light. This is the other kind of death - dependent upon circumstances. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 37)

Calamities are of two kinds. One kind results from bad morals and misconduct... The other kind is the result of the exigencies of the contingent world, of consummate divine law, and of universal relationships, and is that which is bound to happen, as, for instance, changes, alterations, life and death. (Mahmud's Diary, 16 Jul. 1912, p. 171)

Fate is of two kinds: contingent and irrevocable. An irrevocable fate cannot change or alter. If every sick person someone prays for were healed, no one would leave the elemental form and ascend from this world to the next to progress there because each time someone became sick, supplications would be made and he would be healed. This contradicts the divine and consummate wisdom. Rather, the purpose of asking for healing is to be protected from a contingent fate and to be guarded from a destiny that is not irrevocable. For example, notice that this lamp has a known amount of oil and when it is completely consumed, it will certainly go out. There will be no change or alteration. However, benevolent prayers and asking for healing is the glass that protects the lamp from contrary winds so it is not extinguished by a contingent fate. (Abdu'l-Baha, Muntakhabati az Athar-i-Hadrat-i-'Abdu'l-Baha, vol. 3, p.20, provisional translation, quoted here.)




But there are certain matters where man is forced and compelled, such as sleep, death, sickness, failing powers, misfortune, and material loss: These are not subject to the will of man and he is not accountable for them, for he is compelled to endure them. SAQ#70.3 (was SAQ.248)




the human soul is to be compared to a weaver, but human life to a woven fabric.... God, the Lord, the taskmaster, covers the weaver's loom (the human milieu) with the warp of fate..... The human soul then weaves the weft of the fabric with the shuttle of the senses, the imagination and action until life's end.... The material to be woven, be it hemp, yarn, wool or silk, or some other mixture, the soul cannot choose, nor the implement, but only the ways and means of weaving... (Pilgrim notes of Dr. Fallscheer)

Indeed, all who have endeavoured to explain the problem of Destiny have advocated either absolute divine determinism or human choice, and thus all the philosophers have confessed their powerlessness to explain the truth of this question. Indeed, this verily is the truth, inasmuch as the philosophers wanted to explain the divine truth, the Middle Path between absolute determinism and absolute freedom, by proofs of reason, which is, however, impossible. For, verily, reason, even in its utmost level of abstraction, is confined to understanding mere limited phenomenona, which fail to guide humans unto the summit of the delight of their heart. Thus, he who abideth upon the throne of the kingdom of reason hath no recourse but to believe in either determinism or absolute freedom. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.211)

Chance, free will, and necessity--nowise incompatible--all interweavingly working together. The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its ultimate course--its every alternating vibration, indeed, only tending to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads; and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of necessity, and sideways in its motions modified by free will, though thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the last featuring blow at events. (Herman Melville, Moby Dick, XLVII, in "Great Treasury of Western Thought" 5.7.41)

The statement 'Neither compulsion nor deference, and neither aversion nor dominion; but the Middle Way ', signifieth that deeds are committed by man but aid and assistance cometh from God. Unless His bountiful favour and assistance be received, 'all on the earth shall pass away', but with His aid and favour, 'every one acteth after his own manner...'. And yet, 'to all-both to these and those-will we prolong the gifts of thy Lord; for not to any shall the gifts of thy Lord be denied'. If the wind bloweth not, that is if divine assistance be withdrawn, the ship cannot move. It can neither sail to the east nor to the west. But with the aid of the wind, the ship can be carried in whichever direction the rudder turneth. Thus the motion of the ship, either to the east or to the west, dependeth on the wind's assistance, but its course will follow the direction of the rudder, however it may be inclined. The words 'no deference,' signify that the ship cannot move by its own power whereas 'no compulsion' implieth that by means of its rudder, it is free to move in any direction. This is the meaning of the Middle Way. (Provisional translation, AB04687)




...engrave it on your hands, tattoo it on your heart: 1. Accident is meaningless. 2. I, the creature with sense and spirit, originate from the source of all meaning, all spirit. 3. I can, I will, I must therefore reject accident, meaninglessness in all that happens. (Fallscheer notes, p. 59)




Indeed, all who have endeavoured to explain the problem of Destiny have advocated either absolute divine determinism or human choice, and thus all the philosophers have confessed their powerlessness to explain the truth of this question. Indeed, this verily is the truth, inasmuch as the philosophers wanted to explain the divine truth, the Middle Path between absolute determinism and absolute freedom, by proofs of reason, which is, however, impossible. For, verily, reason, even in its utmost level of abstraction, is confined to understanding mere limited phenomenona, which fail to guide humans unto the summit of the delight of their heart. Thus, he who abideth upon the throne of the kingdom of reason hath no recourse but to believe in either determinism or absolute freedom. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.211)




The statement 'Neither compulsion nor deference, and neither aversion nor dominion; but the Middle Way', signifieth that deeds are committed by man but aid and assistance cometh from God. Unless His bountiful favour and assistance be received, 'all on the earth shall pass away', but with His aid and favour, 'every one acteth after his own manner ... '. And yet, 'to all--both to these and those--will we prolong the gifts of thy Lord; for not to any shall the gifts of thy Lord be denied' If the wind bloweth not, that is if divine assistance be withdrawn, the ship cannot move. It can neither sail to the east nor to the west. But with the aid of the wind, the ship can be carried in whichever direction the rudder turneth. Thus the motion of the ship, either to the east or to the west, dependeth on the wind's assistance, but its course will follow the direction of the rudder, however it may be inclined. The words 'no deference,' signify that the ship cannot move by its own power whereas 'no compulsion' implieth that by means of its rudder, it is free to move in any direction. This is the meaning of the Middle Way. Ponder a while upon this subject so that thou mayest discern the truth of the matter. (Provisional translation, AB04687)
