



Men at all times and under all conditions stand in need of one to exhort them, guide them and to instruct and teach them. Therefore He hath sent forth His Messengers, His Prophets and chosen ones that they might acquaint the people with the divine purpose underlying the revelation of Books and the raising up of Messengers, and that everyone may become aware of the trust of God which is latent in the reality of every soul. Man is the supreme Talisman. Lack of a proper education hath, however, deprived him of that which he doth inherently possess.... Regard man as a mine rich in gems of inestimable value. Education can, alone, cause it to reveal its treasures... GWB#122 p259-260, TB.161-162; Ruhi1.3.13 (from 3rd sentence), Ruhi2.3.3 (1st sentence), Ruhi3.1.3 (last sentence)

In the beginning of his life man was in the world of the matrix [womb]. There he received capacity and endowment to progress into this world. The faculties which are necessary for this world he acquired in that world.... Therefore, in this world, also, it is necessary to prepare and make ready for the world to come. Whatever is needed in the world of the Kingdom ('alam-i Malakut) man must prepare and make ready for here. PUP.225, Ruhi1.3.6; KHT2.170-171 (Revised trans. by K. Brown)

'If God hath pleased He had surely made all men one people.' His purpose, however, is to enable the pure in spirit and the detached in heart to ascend, by virtue of their own innate powers, unto the shores of the Most Great Ocean, that thereby they who seek the Beauty of the All-Glorious may be distinguished and separated from the wayward and perverse. GWB#029 p071

Suffer not yourselves to be wrapt in the dense veils of your selfish desires, inasmuch as I have perfected in every one of you My creation, so that the excellence of My handiwork may be fully revealed unto men. GWB#075 p143, Ruhi7.2.4

The Purpose of the one true God, exalted be His glory, in revealing Himself unto men is to lay bare those gems that lie hidden within the mine of their true and inmost selves. GWB#132 p287, cf. ESW.013, Ruhi2.3.3




The purpose of the one true God, exalted be His glory, hath been to bring forth the Mystic Gems out of the mine of man - they Who are the Dawning-Places of His Cause and the Repositories of the pearls of His knowledge; for, God Himself, glorified be He, is the Unseen, the One concealed and hidden from the eyes of men. ESW.013

The Prophets and Chosen Ones have all been commissioned by the One True God, magnified be His glory, to nurture the trees of human existence with the living waters of uprightness and understanding, that there may appear from them that which God hath deposited within their inmost selves. KA#106

Led by the light of unfailing guidance, and invested with supreme sovereignty, They are commissioned to use the inspiration of Their words, the effusions of Their infallible grace and the sanctifying breeze of Their Revelation for the cleansing of every longing heart and receptive spirit from the dross and dust of earthly cares and limitations. Then, and only then, will the Trust of God, latent in the reality of man, emerge, as resplendent as the rising Orb of Divine Revelation, from behind the veil of concealment, and implant the ensign of its revealed glory upon the summits of men's hearts. GWB#027 p067

The holy Manifestations of God come into the world to dispel the darkness of the animal, or physical, nature of man, to purify him from his imperfections in order that his heavenly and spiritual nature may become quickened, his divine qualities awakened, his perfections visible, his potential powers revealed and all the virtues of the world of humanity latent within him may come to life. PUP.465

The aim of the Prophets of God is to raise man to the degree of knowledge of his own potentiality and to illumine him through the light of the Kingdom to transform ignorance into wisdom; error into knowledge; cruelty into affection; incapacity into progress; in short, to make all the attainments of existence resplendent in him. ADP.111

Through the Teachings of this Day Star of Truth every man will advance and develop until he attaineth the station at which he can manifest all the potential forces with which his inmost true self hath been endowed. It is for this very purpose that in every age and dispensation the Prophets of God and His chosen Ones have appeared amongst men... GWB#027 p068

From the exalted source, and out of the essence of His favor and bounty He hath entrusted every created thing with a sign of His knowledge, so that none of His creatures may be deprived of its share in expressing, each according to its capacity and rank, this knowledge. This sign is the mirror of His beauty in the world of creation. The greater the effort exerted for the refinement of this sublime mirror, the more faithfully will it be made to reflect the glory of the names and attributes of God, and reveal the wonders of His signs and knowledge. GWB#124 p262     "There is no contradiction between Gleanings p. 66 [GWB#027 p066] and p. 262. In one place He says the mirror will never be free from dross, in the other He says it will be 'so cleansed as to be able' etc. It is a relative thing; perfection will never be reached, but great, and ever greater, progress can be made." LG#387 (8 Jan. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

He bore these ordeals, suffered these calamities and difficulties in order that a manifestation of selflessness and service might become apparent in the world of humanity; that the Most Great Peace should become a reality; that human souls might appear as the angels of heaven; that heavenly miracles would be wrought among men; that human faith should be strengthened and perfected; that the precious, priceless bestowal of God -- the human mind -- might be developed to its fullest capacity in the temple of the body; and that man might become the reflection and likeness of God, even as it hath been revealed in the Bible, "Let us make man in our image." PUP.028

By the righteousness of the one true God! If one speck of a jewel be lost and buried beneath a mountain of stones, and lie hidden beyond the seven seas, the Hand of Omnipotence would assuredly reveal it in this Day, pure and cleansed from dross. ADJ#111 cf: To gather jewels have I come to this world. If one speck of a jewel lie hid in a stone, and that stone be beyond the seven seas, until I have found and secured that jewel my hand shall not stay from its search. (Baha'u'llah, Panj Kanz, fifth treasure, BW v8:934) alternate translation: I have come to this world to mine gems. If the tiniest gem be latent within a stone, and if that stone be hidden beneath the seven seas, I shall not cease My work until I have extracted the gem from that stone. He saith, exalted be He: "God, exalted be His glory, hath sent a Trusted One in every age to bring forth Mystic Gems from the mine of man."
