



To every discerning and illumined heart it is evident that God, the unknowable Essence, the divine Being, is immensely exalted beyond every human attribute, such as corporeal existence, ascent and descent, egress and regress.... He is and hath ever been veiled in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and will remain in His Reality everlastingly hidden from the sight of men... No tie of direct intercourse can possibly bind Him to His creatures. He standeth exalted beyond and above all separation and union, all proximity and remoteness.... How could there be conceived any existing relationship or possible connection between His Word and they that are created of it? ...the words: "God was alone; there was none else beside Him" are a sure testimony of its truth. KI#104-105 p098-099, GWB#019 p046-047, WOB.113

Otherwise, that ideal King hath, throughout eternity, been in His Essence independent of the comprehension of all beings, and will continue, for ever, in His own Being to be exalted above the adoration of every soul. KI#056 p052-053

No sign can indicate His presence or His absence; inasmuch as by a word of His command all that are in heaven and on earth have come to exist, and by His wish, which is the Primal Will itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being, the world of the visible. KI#104 p098

The reality of the Divinity is sanctified and exalted beyond the comprehension of all created things, can in no wise be imagined by mortal mind and understanding, and transcends all human conception. That reality admits of no division, for division and multiplicity are among the characteristics of created and hence contingent things, and not accidents impinging upon the Necessary Being. The reality of the Divinity is sanctified above singleness, then how much more above plurality. For that divine reality to descend into stations and degrees would be tantamount to deficiency, contrary to perfection, and utterly impossible. It has ever been, and will ever remain, in the loftiest heights of sanctity and purity. All that is mentioned regarding the manifestation and revelation of God pertains to the effulgence of His light and not to a descent into the degrees of existence. SAQ#27.2-3 (was SAQ.113)

Know that the reality of the Divinity and the nature of the divine Essence is ineffable sanctity and absolute holiness; that is, it is exalted above and sanctified beyond every praise. All the attributes ascribed to the highest degrees of existence are, with regard to this station, mere imagination. The Invisible and Inaccessible can never be known; the absolute Essence can never be described. For the divine Essence is an all-encompassing reality, and all created things are encompassed. The all-encompassing must assuredly be greater than that which is encompassed, and thus the latter can in no wise discover the former or comprehend its reality. No matter how far human minds may advance, even attaining the highest degree of human comprehension, the uttermost limit of this comprehension is to behold the signs and attributes of God in the world of creation and not in the realm of Divinity. For the essence and the attributes of the all-glorious Lord are enshrined in the inaccessible heights of sanctity, and human minds and understandings will never find a path to that station. "The way is barred, and all seeking rejected." SAQ#37.2 (was SAQ.146)

The all-encompassing must assuredly be greater than that which is encompassed, and thus the latter can in no wise discover the former or comprehend its reality. No matter how far human minds may advance, even attaining the highest degree of human comprehension, the uttermost limit of this comprehension is to behold the signs and attributes of God in the world of creation and not in the realm of Divinity.... It is evident that whatsoever man understands is a consequence of his existence, and that man is a sign of the All-Merciful: How then can the consequence of the sign encompass the Creator of the sign? That is, how can human understanding, which is a consequence of man's existence, comprehend God?... It is evident that if we attempt to conceive the reality of the Divinity, that conception would be encompassed and our mind would be that which encompasses it--and assuredly that which encompasses is greater than that which is encompassed! SAQ#37.2-9 (was SAQ.146-147,149)

...the reality of the Divinity lies hidden from all understanding and is concealed from the minds of all men, and to ascend to that station is in no wise possible.. SAQ#37.3 (was SAQ.147)

The existence of the Divine Being hath been clearly established, on the basis of logical proofs, but the reality of the Godhead is beyond the grasp of the mind.... The furthermost limits of this bird of clay are these: he can flutter along for some short distance, into the endless vast; but he can never soar upward to the Sun in the high heavens. We must, nevertheless, set forth reasoned or inspired proofs as to the existence of the Divine Being, that is, proofs commensurate with the understanding of man.... There are many such proofs, establishing the existence of that Universal Reality. SWAB#021 p046, SWAB#021 p047-048, SWAB#021 p049

Know thou of a certainty that the Unseen can in no wise incarnate His Essence and reveal it unto men. He is, and hath ever been, immensely exalted beyond all that can either be recounted or perceived. GWB#020 p049

Regard thou the one true God as One Who is apart from, and immeasurably exalted above, all created things. The whole universe reflecteth His glory, while He is Himself independent of, and transcendeth His creatures. This is the true meaning of Divine unity (tawhid). GWB#084 p166

It should be remembered in this connection that the one true God is in Himself exalted beyond and above proximity and remoteness. His reality transcendeth such limitations. His relationship to His creatures knoweth no degrees. That some are near and others are far is to be ascribed to the manifestations themselves. GWB#083 p185-186

He, verily, is one and indivisible; one in His essence, one in His attributes. Everything besides Him is as nothing when brought face to face with the resplendent revelation of but one of His names, with no more than the faintest intimation of His glory - how much less when confronted with His own Self! GWB#093 p187

He is, and hath been from everlasting, one and alone, without peer or equal, eternal in the past, eternal in the future, detached from all things, ever-abiding, unchangeable, and self-subsisting.... He, in truth, hath, throughout eternity, been one in His Essence, one in His attributes, one in His works. Any and every comparison is applicable only to His creatures, and all conceptions of association are conceptions that belong solely to those that serve Him. Immeasurably exalted is His Essence above the descriptions of His creatures. He, alone, occupieth the Seat of transcendent majesty, of supreme and inaccessible glory. The birds of men's hearts, however high they soar, can never hope to attain the heights of His unknowable Essence.... Far be it from His glory that human pen or tongue should hint at His mystery, or that human heart conceive His Essence. GWB#094 p192, GWB#094 p193

He hath, from everlasting, dwelt in His inaccessible habitation of holiness and glory, and will unto everlasting continue to be enthroned upon the heights of His independent sovereignty and grandeur. How lofty hath been His incorruptible Essence, how completely independent of the knowledge of all created things, and how immensely exalted will it remain above the praise of all the inhabitants of the heavens and the earth! GWB#124 p261-262

We testify that He is One in His Essence, One in His Attributes. He hath none to equal Him in the whole universe, nor any partner in all creation. ESW.098, TB.212

God in His Essence and in His own Self hath ever been unseen, inaccessible, and unknowable.... His being is exalted above, and His essence sanctified from, all comparison and likeness... ESW.118-119

However, let none construe these utterances to imply the incarnation or descent of the worlds of God into the grades of His creatures, nor should they lead thine eminence to such misapprehensions. For God, in His Essence, is sanctified above all ascent and descent, egress and regress; He hath through all eternity been exalted beyond the attributes of His creation, and will ever remain so. No man hath ever known Him; no soul hath ever fathomed the nature of His Being. In the valley of His knowledge every mystic wandereth astray; in the comprehension of His Essence every saint standeth bewildered. Sanctified is He above the understanding of the wise; exalted is He beyond the knowledge of the knowing! "The way is barred and all seeking rejected. His proof is His signs, His evidence His being." CDB#2.45 (was SV.22-23)

The difference in station between man and the Divine Reality is thousands upon thousands of times greater than the difference between vegetable and animal. SWAB#021 p047

...since that Reality is pre-existent, it is untouched by the conditions that govern phenomena... SWAB#021 p049

...although the Day-Star, with all Its glory, Its beauty, Its perfections, be clearly visible in that mirror [of the Manifestation] without stain, still It hath not come down from Its own lofty station in the realms above, It hath not made Its way into the mirror; rather doth It continue to abide, as It will forever, in the supernal heights of Its own holiness. SWAB#021 p050

The reality of the Divinity is sanctified above singleness, then how much more above plurality. For that divine reality to descend into stations and degrees would be tantamount to deficiency, contrary to perfection, and utterly impossible. It has ever been, and will ever remain, in the loftiest heights of sanctity and purity. All that is mentioned regarding the manifestation and revelation of God pertains to the effulgence of His light and not to a descent into the degrees of existence. SAQ#27.3 (was SAQ.113)

The true Speaker, the divine Essence [dhat-i-ahadiyah], ever remains in the same condition and experiences no change or alteration, no transformation or vicissitude. It has neither beginning nor end. SAQ#53.4 (was SAQ.206)

The invisible realm of the Divinity is sanctified and exalted above the comprehension of all beings, and all that can be imagined is mere human understanding. The power of human understanding does not encompass the reality of the divine Essence. SAQ#59.7 (was SAQ.221)

In brief, superior realities do not descend or abase themselves to the degree of inferior realities. How, then, could the universal Reality of God, which transcends all descriptions and attributes, resolve itself, notwithstanding its absolute sanctity and holiness, into the forms and realities of the contingent world, which are the very source of imperfections? This is pure fantasy and untenable conjecture. SAQ#82.18 (was SAQ.295)

In fine, that Universal Reality with all its qualities and attributes that we recount is holy and exalted above all minds and understandings. Forel.18

The divinity attributed to so great a Being and the complete incarnation of the names and attributes of God in so exalted a Person should, under no circumstances, be misconceived or misinterpreted. The human temple that has been made the vehicle of so overpowering a Revelation must, if we be faithful to the tenets of our Faith, ever remain entirely distinguished from that 'innermost Spirit of Spirits' and 'eternal Essence of Essences' - that invisible yet rational God Who, however much we extol the divinity of His Manifestations on earth, can in no wise incarnate His infinite, His unknowable, His incorruptible and all-embracing Reality in the concrete and limited frame of a mortal being.  So crude and fantastic a theory of Divine incarnation is as removed from, and incompatible with, the essentials of Baha'i belief as are the no less inadmissible pantheistic and anthropomorphic conceptions of God - both of which the utterances of Baha'u'llah emphatically repudiate and the fallacy of which they expose. WOB.112-113

It is a self-evident fact that phenomenal existence can never grasp nor comprehend the ancient and essential Reality. PUP.113

The realm of Divinity is an indivisible oneness, wholly sanctified above human comprehension... PUP.172

That which we imagine, is not the Reality of God; He, the Unknowable, the Unthinkable, is far beyond the highest conception of man. PT#05:10 p025

The sun does not leave his place in the heavens and descend into the mirror, for the actions of ascent and descent, coming and going, do not belong to the Infinite, they are the methods of finite beings. PT#05:17 p026

The Divine Reality is Unthinkable, Limitless, Eternal, Immortal and Invisible. The world of creation is bound by natural law, finite and mortal. The Infinite Reality cannot be said to ascend or descend. It is beyond the understanding of man, and cannot be described in terms which apply to the phenomenal sphere of the created world. PT#17:1-3 p057-058

The truth is that nobody has a route which can conduct him towards the eternal Essence. Always He subsists in His state of eternity and nothing can equal Him; nothing can come from Him, nothing is similar to His essence, and nothing separates itself from Him. (The Bab, provisional translation, Suriy-i-Tawhid, Le Béyan Arabe, pp. 29-31, and P. Terry's translation, pp. 11-12)

...although the realities of all created things are the recipients of the bounty of the Daystar of Truth, the latter doth not descend from its heights of holiness and sanctity, nor doth it resolve itself into contingent beings.... As to the station of the Godhead, it is exalted above and sanctified beyond the understanding of all created things, how much more above resolving itself into their realities!... The truth, however, is that the reality of that sanctified Essence can in no wise descend into the realm of creation. For Him there is no egress or regress, no descent or dissolution, no composition or commingling; only infinite transcendence. He is even as the sun whose rays shine upon all earthly beings. All things are invigorated and made visible by Him, and reflect His light, whilst He remaineth, in the heights of holiness, exalted above and sanctified beyond all conditions, determinations, and distinctions, even beyond the very comprehension of His creatures. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:356)

Therefore observe that although all letters and words appear from the point and all numbers from the unitary concept, neither does the primal point descend from its high station nor does the unitary concept [ahad] come down from its abode of sanctity. Such is the station of the Hidden Treasure well-known and sung out by the Birds that dwell in the Rose-garden of Oneness and trilled by the Nightingales of the flowering fields of detachment [tajrid]. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.11, MKT2:009)

God is purely transcendent and can in no wise be defined. He is wholly sanctified above all attributes and qualities. He hath neither name nor sign. 'The way is barred and all seeking rejected.' (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:141)

Just as the sun does not communicate anything of its substance or essence to the earth, so also God does not give the world anything of His Godhood. As the sun only gives its attributes (light, warmth and power) to the earth, so also God lets His attributes shed their rays upon the world. Like the word comes forth from the speaker, the writing from the writer, the work from the creator, so the material (the thing), the spiritual (the human being), and the super-spiritual (the Prophet) issues forth and shines out of God. God works in His emanation dynamically (dispensing power). (From a talk entitled "Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World", according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 9)

Concerning the Divine Spirit or Soul (Ilahiyyih), it is the Supreme Reality comprising all the divine and heavenly realities manifested by the Ancient Light. It is hidden behind the great mysteries, and it is the Point of Unity (al-nuqtatu'l-ahadiyyah) from which all things are made manifest, the Origin and end of all things, one in its essence (ahadiyyatu'l-dhat) and one in its attributes (wahidiyyatu'l-sifat). (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:096)

...no tongue, however deep its wisdom, can befittingly magnify Thy name, nor can the bird of the human heart, however great its longing, ever hope to ascend into the heaven of Thy majesty and knowledge. GWB#001 p003

Who is it that can claim to have attained the heights of His exalted Essence, and what mind can measure the depths of His unfathomable mystery?... From time immemorial He hath been veiled in the ineffable sanctity of His exalted Self, and will everlastingly continue to be wrapt in the impenetrable mystery of His unknowable Essence. Every attempt to attain to an understanding of His inaccessible Reality hath ended in complete bewilderment, and every effort to approach His exalted Self and envisage His Essence hath resulted in hopelessness and failure. GWB#026 p060, GWB#026 p063; WOB.113

Having recognized thy powerlessness to attain to an adequate understanding of that Reality which abideth within thee, thou wilt readily admit the futility of such efforts ... to fathom the mystery of the Living God.... This confession of helplessness which mature contemplation must eventually impel every mind to make is in itself the acme of human understanding, and marketh the culmination of man's development. GWB#083 p165-166

He is indeed a true believer in the unity of God who, in this Day, regards Him as One immeasurably exalted above all the comparisons and likenesses with which men have compared Him. He hath erred grievously who hath mistaken these comparisons and likenesses for God Himself. Consider the relation between the craftsman and his handiwork, between the painter and his painting... GWB#160 p336-337

The minds of the profoundest thinkers are sore perplexed as they contemplate the ocean of Thy knowledge, and the heaven of Thy wisdom, and the Luminary of Thy grace. PM#039 p055

Were I to attempt merely to describe Thee, such an attempt would itself be an evidence of my impiety, and would attest my heedlessness in the face of the clear and resplendent tokens of Thy oneness.... The contemplation of the highest minds that have recognized Thy unity failed to attain unto the comprehension of the One Thou hast created through the word of Thy commandment, how much more must it be powerless to soar into the atmosphere of the knowledge of Thine own Being. ...the attempt of the evanescent to conceive the signs of the Uncreated is as the stirring of the drop before the tumult of Thy billowing oceans. PM#114 p193-194

The learned have, without exception, admitted their ignorance when confronted with the radiance of the Luminary of Thy knowledge. PM#176 p281

Know thou that the Divine Essence, which is called the Invisible of the Invisibles, never to be described, beyond the reach of mind--is sanctified above any mention, any definition or hint or allusion, any acclamation or praise. In the sense that It is that It is, the intellect can never grasp It, and the soul seeking knowledge of It is but a wanderer in the desert, and far astray. SWAB#019 p041

It is not meant, however, that the Universal Reality or the attributes thereof have been comprehended. Neither its Essence nor its true attributes hath any one comprehended. Forel.24

Know that there are two kinds of knowledge [irfan]: the knowledge of the essence [dhat] of a thing and the knowledge [sifat] of its attributes. The essence of each thing is known only through its attributes; otherwise, that essence is unknown and unfathomed. As our knowledge of things, even of created and limited ones, is of their attributes and not of their essence, how then can it be possible to understand in its essence the unbounded Reality of the Divinity? ...everything is known by its attributes and not by its essence: Even though the human mind encompasses all things, and all outward things are in turn encompassed by it, yet the latter are unknown with regard to their essence and can only be known with regard to their attributes. SAQ#59.3-4 (was SAQ.220)

...the reality of Divinity in its identity is beyond the range of human intellection because the human mind, the human intellect, the human thought are limited, whereas the reality of Divinity is unlimited. How can the limited grasp the unlimited and transcend it? Impossible. The unlimited always comprehends the limited. The limited can never comprehend, surround nor take in the unlimited. Therefore, every concept of Divinity which has come within the intellection of a human being is finite, or limited, and is a pure product of imagination, whereas the reality of Divinity is holy and sacred above and beyond all such concepts. PUP.422

And that essence of ahadiyah, in that most great station in which it is said: 'There was God and there was naught else besides Him', is called by the names: the Hidden Treasure, the Hidden Ipseity [Huwiyyat], the Absolute Unity, Pure Essence [dhat], Absolute Non-specificity, the Hidden of the Hidden, the Primal Mystery, the Absolute Unknown, the Indescribable One, the Undiscoverable One and other Names. ...the reality of this station is such that no likeness can be made to that Essence of ahadiyah for It is above all reasoning and understanding and is greater than anything which may be likened or compared to it. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.9, MKT2:007)

As for what is intended by Knowing, know thou, O wayfarer upon the path of guidance that the path to knowing the innermost Essence of the Absolute is closed to all beings and seeking and hoping for this station is not acceptable. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.29, MKT2:044)

...man is made in God's image: yet the Essence of God is incomprehensible to the human mind, for the finite understanding cannot be applied to this infinite Mystery. God contains all: He cannot be contained. That which contains is superior to that which is contained. PT#05:5 p023

It is given to man to obtain knowledge, to attain to great spiritual perfection, to discover hidden truths and to manifest even the attributes of God; but still man cannot comprehend the Essence of God. AL.066, Ruhi5.1.11

As to the attributes and perfections such as will, knowledge, power and other ancient attributes that we ascribe to that Divine Reality, these are the signs that reflect the existence of beings in the visible plane and not the absolute perfections of the Divine Essence that cannot be comprehended.... that Universal Reality with all its qualities and attributes that we recount is holy and exalted above all minds and understandings.... As it hath previously been mentioned, these attributes and perfections that we recount of the Divine Essence, these we have derived from the existence and observation of beings, and it is not that we have comprehended the essence and perfection of God. Forel.17-18, Forel.25

In the Word of God there is still another unity - the oneness of the Manifestations of God.... This is a unity divine, heavenly, radiant, merciful - the one reality appearing in its successive Manifestations.... There is also the divine unity or entity, which is sanctified above all concept of humanity. It cannot be comprehended nor conceived because it is infinite reality and cannot become finite. Human minds are incapable of surrounding that reality because all thoughts and conceptions of it are finite, intellectual creations and not the reality of Divine Being which alone knows itself. For example, if we form a conception of Divinity as a living, almighty, self-subsisting, eternal Being, this is only a concept apprehended by a human intellectual reality. It would not be the outward, visible reality, which is beyond the power of human mind to conceive or encompass. We ourselves have an external, visible entity; but even our concept of it is the product of our own brain and limited comprehension. The reality of Divinity is sanctified above this degree of knowing and realization. It has ever been hidden and secluded in its own holiness and sanctity above our comprehending. Although it transcends our realization, its lights, bestowals, traces and virtues have become manifest in the realities of the Prophets, even as the sun becomes resplendent in various mirrors. These holy realities are as reflectors, and the reality of Divinity is as the sun, which, although it is reflected from the mirrors, and its virtues and perfections become resplendent therein, does not stoop from its own station of majesty and glory and seek abode in the mirrors; it remains in its heaven of sanctity. At most it is this: that its lights become manifest and evident in its mirrors or manifestations. Therefore, its bounty proceeding from them is one bounty, but the recipients of that bounty are many. This is the unity of God; this is oneness -- unity of Divinity, holy above ascent or descent, embodiment, comprehension or idealization -- divine unity. The Prophets are its mirrors; its lights are revealed through Them; its virtues become resplendent in Them, but the Sun of Reality never descends from its own highest point and station. This is unity, oneness, sanctity; this is glorification whereby we praise and adore God. PUP.192-193

And were they to maintain that by 'divine Presence' is meant the 'Specific Revelation of God,' [Tajalliy-i-Khass] expressed by certain Sufis as the 'Most Holy Outpouring,' [Fayd-i-Aqdas] if this be in the Essence Itself, it is evident that it hath been eternally in the divine Knowledge. Assuming the truth of this hypothesis, 'attainment unto the divine Presence' is in this sense obviously possible to no one, inasmuch as this revelation is confined to the innermost Essence, unto which no man can attain. 'The way is barred, and all seeking rejected.' The minds of the favourites of heaven, however high they soar, can never attain this station, how much less the understanding of obscured and limited minds. KI#150 p141

God grant that, with a penetrating vision, thou mayest perceive, in all things, the sign of the revelation of Him Who is the ancient King, and recognize how exalted and sanctified from the whole creation is that most holy and sacred Being. This, in truth, is the very root and essence of belief in the unity (tawhid) and singleness of God. 'God was alone; there was none else besides Him.' He, how, is what He hath ever been. GWB#093 p191-192

If thou art sailing upon the sea of God's Names, which are reflected in all things, know thou that He is exalted and sanctified from being known through His creatures, or being described by His servants. SWB.125

...the reality of the Sanctified Essence cannot descend into the world of creation.... Rather it is the Primal Will, which consists of the bounty of the rays of the Sun, which is the cause of the manifestation and appearance of beings. This is the truth and naught lieth beyond the truth but error. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:358)

In sum the generality of the mystics imagine that existence is limited to two conditions: God [Haqq] and creation. They believe God to be the inner reality of all things and creation to be the outward appearance thereof. The people of Truth, however, recognize three realms of existence: God, Command (which is the Primal Will), and creation. The Primal Will, which is the realm of Command, is the inner reality of all things, and all beings are therefore the manifestations of the Divine Will, not the manifestations of the Divine Essence and Reality itself. "His are the realms of Command and creation." As to the station of the Godhead, it is exalted above and sanctified beyond the understanding of all created things, how much more above resolving itself into their realities! His Holiness the Bab (may my life be a sacrifice unto Him) hath stated that the meaning of the verse "The sea hath ever been the sea, and all contingent things its waves and forms" is fulfilled in the Primal Will, not in the Divine Essence. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:355)

Exalted, immeasurably exalted, art Thou above the strivings of mortal man to unravel Thy mystery, to describe Thy glory, or even to hint at the nature of Thine Essence.... The loftiest sentiments which the holiest of saints can express in praise of Thee, ... all revolve around that Center (nuqtih) Which is wholly subjected to Thy sovereignty, Which adoreth Thy Beauty, and is propelled through the movement of Thy Pen. Nay, forbid it, O my God, that I should have uttered such words as must of necessity imply the existence of any direct relationship between the Pen of Thy Revelation and the essence of all created things. GWB#001 p003-004

The door of the knowledge of the Ancient Being hath ever been, and will continue for ever to be, closed in the face of men. No man's understanding shall ever gain access unto His holy court. As a token of His mercy, however, and as a proof of His loving kindness, He hath manifested unto men the Day Stars of His divine guidance, the Symbols of His divine unity, and hath ordained the knowledge of these sanctified Beings to be identical with the knowledge of His own Self. Whoso recognizeth them hath recognized God.... Every one of them is the Way of God that connecteth this world with the realms above, and the Standard (mizan) of His Truth unto every one in the kingdoms of earth and heaven. They are the Manifestations of God amidst men, the evidences of His Truth, and the signs of His glory. GWB#021 p049-050, Ruhi1.3.12

The Prophets of God are the Mediators of God. All the Prophets and Messengers have come from One Holy Spirit and bear the Message of God, fitted to the age in which they appear. The One Light is in them and they are One with each other. But the Eternal does not become phenomenal; neither can the phenomenal become Eternal. AL.024

All superior kingdoms are incomprehensible to the inferior; how therefore could it be possible that the creature, man, should understand the almighty Creator of all? PT#05:9 p024

...that which a human being would conjure up in his mind is but the fanciful image of his human condition, it doth not encompass God's reality but rather is encompassed by it.... That Divinity which man doth imagine for himself existeth only in his mind, not in truth. Man, however, existeth both in his mind and in truth; thus man is greater than that fanciful reality which he is able to imagine.... ...that divinity which other communions and peoples have conjured up, falleth within the scope of their imagination, and not beyond it, whereas the reality of the Godhead is beyond all conceiving. SWAB#021 p047, SWAB#021 p050

Were anyone to meditate upon this blessed and transcendent Revelation and to ponder the verses that have been sent down, he would readily bear witness that the one true God is immeasurably exalted above His creatures, and that the knowledge of all things hath ever been and shall ever remain with Him. TU.2#25

Is it possible for anyone to apprehend the reality of knowledge ('irfan)? No, by the beauty of the All-Praised! Exalted, far exalted is He above the loftiest birds of the hearts (fu'ad) of the believers, that they should soar into the atmosphere of His knowledge. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.031)

Now concerning the Essence of Divinity (haqiqat-i-iluhiyyat): in truth it is on no account determined by anything apart from its own nature, and can in no wise be comprehended. For whatsoever can be conceived by man is a reality that hath limitations and is not unlimited; it is circumscribed, not all-embracing. Forel.15

No man can ever claim to have comprehended the nature of the hidden and manifold grace of God; none can fathom His all-embracing mercy. GWB#032 p076

Behold, how immeasurably exalted is the Lord your God above all created things! Witness the majesty of His sovereignty, His ascendancy, and supreme power. If the things which have been created by Him--magnified be His glory--and ordained to be the manifestations of His names and attributes, stand, by virtue of the grace with which they have been endowed, exalted beyond all proximity and remoteness, how much loftier must be that Divine Essence that hath called them into being?... GWB#093 p184-185

Every attempt which, from the beginning that hath no beginning, hath been made to visualize and know God is limited by the exigencies of His own creation--a creation which He, through the operation of His own Will and for the purposes of none other but His own Self, hath called into being. Immeasurably exalted is He above the strivings of human mind to grasp His Essence, or of human tongue to describe His mystery. No tie of direct intercourse can ever bind Him to the things He hath created, nor can the most abstruse and most remote allusions of His creatures do justice to His being. Through His world-pervading Will He hath brought into being all created things. He is and hath ever been veiled in the ancient eternity of His own exalted and indivisible Essence, and will everlastingly continue to remain concealed in His inaccessible majesty and glory. All that is in heaven and all that is in the earth have come to exist at His bidding, and by His Will all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being. How can, therefore, the creature which the Word of God hath fashioned comprehend the nature of Him Who is the Ancient of Days? GWB#148 p318

In one aspect, all that has been said or will be said refers back to the first assertion, that the glorified and exalted Absolute Reality is unknowable, unattainable, and invisible, and this station has been and will continued to be sanctified from all references and names, and freed from whatever the people of creation may understand of It. The path is barred and the quest denied. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality, Iqtidarat p. 108)

In the sanctity of Thine own being hast Thou ever been exalted above the understanding of the learned among the Company on high, and forever wilt Thou remain enwrapped within the holiness of Thine own reality, unreached by the knowledge of those dwellers in Thine exalted Kingdom who glorify Thy Name. SWAB#002 p004

This people, all of them, have pictured a god in the realm of the mind, and worship that image which they have made for themselves. And yet that image is comprehended, the human mind being the comprehender thereof, and certainly the comprehender is greater than that which lieth within its grasp; for imagination is but the branch, while mind is the root; and certainly the root is greater than the branch. Consider then, how all the peoples of the world are bowing the knee to a fancy of their own contriving, how they have created a creator within their own minds, and they call it the Fashioner of all that is--whereas in truth it is but an illusion. Thus are the people worshipping only an error of perception. But that Essence of Essences, that Invisible of Invisibles, is sanctified above all human speculation, and never to be overtaken by the mind of man. Never shall that immemorial Reality lodge within the compass of a contingent being. His is another realm, and of that realm no understanding can be won. No access can be gained thereto; all entry is forbidden there. The utmost one can say is that Its existence can be proved, but the conditions of Its existence are unknown. That such an Essence doth exist, the philosophers and learned doctors one and all have understood; but whenever they tried to learn something of Its being, they were left bewildered and dismayed, and at the end, despairing, their hopes in ruins, they went their way, out of this life. For to comprehend the state and the inner mystery of that Essence of Essences, that Most Secret of Secrets, one needs must have another power and other faculties; and such a power, such faculties would be more than humankind can bear, wherefore no word of Him can come to them. SWAB#024 p053-054

Know thou that God--exalted and glorified be He--doth in no wise manifest His inmost Essence and Reality. From time immemorial He hath been veiled in the eternity of His Essence and concealed in the infinitude of His own Being. GDM#046 p034-035

Immeasurably exalted is God above that which they conceive in their hearts, and immensely glorified is He beyond that which they attribute to Him. GDM#111 p075

The supporters of the "oneness of existence" (wahdatu'l-wujud) have joined partners with God through their testimony of existence, because the oneness which they seek to establish is a consequence of the existence of two, and except through the negation of two, how is it possible to have oneness? In like manner, those individuals who assert that the cause of contingent existence is the Essence of God and say there is a connection between them are unbelievers, because a cause is a consequence of conjunction with an effect, and having a connection is a consequence of the existence of duality. Both of these suggestions are sheer error. Nay, rather the true God is the real Essence, while creation is contingent, and anything outside of this contingent creation is impossible to grasp....From time immemorial the creation hath been the creation, and conjunction with the Essence is not possible. (The Bab, provisional translation, Sahifiy-i-Usul va Furu', AvK1.103-104, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

Know thou that the Divine Reality, the Pure Essence, Whose attributes are unknowable, cannot be comprehended by minds and visions, nor encompassed by understandings and thoughts. Every insight falleth short of perceiving It, and every venture loseth in the quest to know It. How futile for the spiders of idle fancy to weave their webs in the corners of that exalted palace, or to seek to discover mysteries that no penetrating vision hath discovered! Whoso pointeth toward It raiseth but dust and increaseth the obscurity behind the veils. Nay, such attempts but demonstrate profound ignorance and betoken the existence of a thick covering. We have neither way nor proof to apprehend that Mighty Matter, for the path is barred and the quest rejected. It hath no designation that is absolute, nor attribute in the estimation of them that are illumined. Thus are we compelled to turn to the Dawning-Place of His light, the Center of His manifestation, the Dayspring of His signs, and the Source of His words. Whatsoever praise, attributes, most beautiful names, and most exalted characteristics we mention - all return to this Described One. We have no recourse but to turn in all matters toward that known Center, that promised Manifestation, that witnessed Dawning-Point. Otherwise, we would worship a supposed reality imagined in minds, a rejected creation, a mere fancy rather than conscious knowledge in the human realm - and this would be graver than the worship of idols, for idols at least have existence in the contingent world. As for the Divine Reality imagined in minds and thoughts - it is naught but fancy and falsehood, for the Universal Divine Reality, sanctified from every attribute and description, entereth not into the sphere of mental conception, such that man might imagine It. This is a self-evident truth, visible in the world of existence, requiring no explanation. Therefore, whatsoever lofty titles and transcendent attributes thou mayest conceive - all return to the Manifestation of Revelation and the Dawning-Place of Light revealed on the Mount. Say: Call upon God, or call upon the All-Merciful; by whichever name ye call, His are the most beautiful names. (Abdu'l-Baha, AB00319, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.028.12-030; MKT1:188; Min Makatib 93)

The Essential Reality is not known to anyone, for knowledge is contingent upon existence [wujud] and conjunction [iqtiran], and all else have no existence at His level, how much less that they should stand in need of conjunction. None hath known God save His own sacred Essence, and none hath unified God save His own sacred Essence. Whosoever claims to know Him is an unbeliever. (The Bab, BB00017, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.030)

Such is He who is too great to be named God. He is hidden, yet most manifest. He is apprehensible by thought alone, yet we can see Him with our eyes. He is bodiless, and yet has many bodies, or rather, is embodied in all bodies. There is nothing that He is not; for all things that exist are even He. For this reason all names are names of Him, because all things come from Him, their one Father; and for this reason He has no name, because He is the Father of all. Who then can speak of Thee or to thee, and tell Thy praise? Whither shall I look when I praise Thee? Upward or downward, inward or outward? For Thou art the place in which all things are contained; there is no other place beside Thee; all things are in Thee. (Corpus Hermeticum, Lib. v:10a, p. 163, W. Scott trans.)

God, the blessed and only Ruler, the King of kings and Lord of lords, who alone is immortal and who lives in unapproachable light, whom no one has seen or can see. To him be honor and might forever. 1 Timothy 6:15-16

The reality of the Divine Entity is holy above comprehension, beyond definition, and far from the reach of imagination, for that which is imagined is finite, of man, and thereto man is infinite; and certainly the infinite is greater than the finite. Therefore, it is made evident that what is imagined is a creation and not the Creator, for the Essence of Divinity is beyond human imagination. Now all people worship an imagination, for they have created a God in the realm of imagination and him they worship. If you ask a soul, when he is praying, who art thou worshiping? He will say, God. Which God? The God of my conception. When, in truth, what he imagines is not God. Hence, all people are worshippers of imaginations and ideals. Consequently, there is no pathway or escape for man except the Holy Manifestations, for, as we said the Essence of Divinity is pure, is holy and cannot be brought into the world of ideas. That which can be brought to ideation are the Holy and Divine Manifestations. Further than this, man has no other point for concentration. If he exceed that bound, it will be an imagination. Therefore, the purpose of the word "He is God" is this: That visible Majesty (the prophet) is the Promised Beauty of the Sun of Reality, the Manifestation of the mysteries of Divinity and Deity, the Revealer of the mysteries of the Merciful, the Origin of the signs of singleness. And I begin with His Blessed Name. (Table Talks By Abdu'l Baha, February 1907, pp. 4-5; cf. SAQ#089.2)

Any comparison is a verity emanating from the thoughts of Thy creatures. Thou art immeasurably exalted above all these and Thou art independent of that which the highest and purest minds among the distinguished of Thy chosen ones hope to attain in the apex of glory and majesty. For people contemplate lofty concepts and exalted attributes with which they praise Thine ever-abiding quintessence, whereas all those sublime stations, peerless realities, and unsurpassed and luminous ascriptions refer to the divine truth that shineth resplendent within the right side of the Sacred Spot in the Vale of Towa. All else is verily vain imaginings conceived in the world of creation and Thou art inaccessible and exalted above the plane of comprehension and art not discerned even through the most refined truths in the realms of idle fancies. 'The way is barred, and all seeking rejected'. There is neither a connection nor a disconnection, neither existence nor non-existence. Thou hast, therefore, fashioned a luminous Being and an effulgent Truth, and Thou hast referred the world of creation to It and hast summoned all beings to bow down before It and hast bidden them to arrive and enter Its court. All else is verily trivial vain imaginings and hollow images. PA01513, in Makatib 1:220 and MMG#118

There is an Unborn, an Unoriginated, an Unmade, an Uncompounded; were there not, O mendicants, there would be no escape from the world of the born, the originated, the made, and the compounded. (Khuddaka Nikaya, Udana 8:3)




Within a compass of two hundred pages it [the Kitab-i-Iqan] proclaims unequivocally the existence and oneness of a personal God, unknowable, inaccessible, the source of all Revelation, eternal, omniscient, omnipresent and almighty... GPB.139

What is meant by personal God is a God Who is conscious of His creation, Who has a Mind, a Will, a Purpose, and not, as many scientists and materialists believe, an unconscious and determined force operating in the universe. Such conception of the Divine Being, as the Supreme and ever present Reality in the world, is not anthropomorphic, for it transcends all human limitations and forms, and does by no means attempt to define the essence of Divinity which is obviously beyond any human comprehension. LG#1574 (21 Apr. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Indeed, the references that have been made to the degrees of mystic knowledge pertain to the knowledge of the effulgences of that Sun of Truth as it becometh reflected in various mirrors. And the effulgence of that light is present within the hearts, yet it is hidden beneath the veils of selfish desires and earthly attachments, even as a candle within a lantern of iron, and only when the cover is lifted doth the light of the candle shine out. CDB#2.47 (was SV.23-24)

When reason is left to its own devices, it recognizes at best a God who is infinitely distant and difficult of access. Sufis accepted this point of view, but they insisted that it had to be complemented by another point of view, according to which God is 'with you wherever you are,' as the Qur'an puts it. Presence, in short, is just as important as absence; the divine immanence [tashbih] is every bit as real as the divine transcendence [tanzih]. (Chittick, intro to al-Ghazali's Mishkatu'l-Anwar, p. xii)

If God is utterly transcendent, and in no need of His creation, why does He care about us? (Cf. Pagels, Beyond Belief 9)         Finding God by looking within ourselves vs. looking to a prophetic figure who serves as an intermediary: Pagels, Beyond Belief 53-55         Is God wholly other (Otto) or can He be found within, through ourselves who are made in His image? Traditional religious orthodoxy tends to emphasize the former, mystical traditions the latter. What is Baha'u'llah's position? (Cf. Pagels 181-182)

Meditate on what the poet hath written: "Wonder not, if my Best-Beloved be closer to me than mine own self; wonder at this, that I, despite such nearness, should still be so far from Him."... Considering what God hath revealed, that "We are closer to man than his life-vein," the poet hath, in allusion to this verse, stated that, though the revelation of my Best-Beloved hath so permeated my being that He is closer to me than my life-vein, yet, notwithstanding my certitude of its reality and my recognition of my station, I am still so far removed from Him. GWB#093 p185

Thou, both End and Origin, Thou without and Thou within -- From every eye Thou hidest well, And yet in every eye dost dwell. (Rumi, in Abdu'l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, p. 29)
