



And similarly consider the Unitary Concept [ahad]; how all the numbers appear from it and it is in no number since it is the point of origin of all numbers. And the first to be specified and to appear from it is the number "one" [wahid] and from "one" all other numbers come into being. So all these numbers are contained in the unitary concept in the most perfect simplicity and oneness. And so it is the "Hidden Treasure" of all numbers and from it do they appear. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.11, MKT2:008-009)

Concerning the Divine Spirit or Soul (Ilahiyyih), it is the Supreme Reality comprising all the divine and heavenly realities manifested by the Ancient Light. It is hidden behind the great mysteries, and it is the Point of Unity (al-nuqtatu'l-ahadiyyah) from which all things are made manifest, the Origin and end of all things, one in its essence (ahadiyyatu'l-dhat) and one in its attributes (wahidiyyatu'l-sifat). (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:096)

...that which is of the Divine Unity (al-ahadiyah) none participate in it, for one cannot designate aspects to it; it is not subject to distinction. The Unity of God integrates the totality (of the Names or the Qualities) in the principle indifferentiation. (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 56 -- excerpt available here)

From the particular viewpoint of the Divine self-manifestation (tajalli) ... the Absolute in the state of unconditional transcendence is said to be at the level of 'unity' (ahadiyah). There is as yet no tajalli.... The tajalli of the Absolute begins to occur only at the next stage, that of the 'oneness' (wahidiyah) which means Unity of the Many. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, pp. 23-24)         [See also Izutsu's comparison of dhat and ahadiyah:] I follow the tradition of those who completely identify the metaphysical stage of dhat with that of ahadiyah, like Qashani and Qaysari. It is to be remarked that there are others (like Jili) who distinguish between dhat and ahadiyah. For them, dhat is the absolute Absolute while ahadiyah is the next metaphysical stage at which the Absolute discloses itself as the ultimate source of tajalli. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 36, n. 4)

Ahadiyah [is the level where] all the modes contained within Oneness are eliminated, whereas within wahidiyah they are established. God may correctly be called the principle and source of a thing or things only in respect of wahidiyah.... Wahidiyah follows ahadiyah and is the origin of the Names and Attributes, which possess relative manyness. (Al-Qunawi (d. 1274), in W. Chittick, "The Five Divine Presences", p. 116)

...'we' are third in order counting from God, being made, Plato says, 'from the undivided,' that which is above, 'and from that which is divided in bodies'... Plotinus, Enn.I.1.8, cf. Timaeus 35A

...the ascent must be made to a one, and this means truly one, but not one like all other things which are multiple and one by participation in a one--the One must be grasped that is not one by participation and is not as much many as one... Plotinus, Enn.V.5.4

'One' must be understood in a larger sense than that in which a unity and a point are unified.... For when you think of him as Intellect or God, he is more; and when you unify him in your thought, here also the degree of unity by which he transcends your thought is more than you imagined it to be; for he is by himself without any incidental attributes. Plotinus, Enn.VI.9.6

And that essence of ahadiyah, in that most great station in which it is said: 'There was God and there was naught else besides Him', is called by the names: the Hidden Treasure, the Hidden Ipseity [Huwiyyat], the Absolute Unity, Pure Essence [dhat], Absolute Non-specificity, the Hidden of the Hidden, the Primal Mystery, the Absolute Unknown, the Indescribable One, the Undiscoverable One and other Names. ...the reality of this station is such that no likeness can be made to that Essence of ahadiyah for It is above all reasoning and understanding and is greater than anything which may be likened or compared to it. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.9, MKT2:007)

Know that according to Sufi convention it is affirmed that all names are remote from the court of the sanctity of the Hidden Being in the station of ahadiyah, and He is known without name or attribute. For the names of the True One are mirrors of his attributes, and the attributes of the True One in the station of ahadiyah are the same as his Essence (dhat) without any trace of difference or distinction. As his holiness, 'Ali ibn Abi Talib, has stated: 'Perfect belief in the divine unity (tawhid) consists in the negation of all his attributes.' Indeed, the permanent and essential names and attributes can in no way be separated from the Essence of the True One, but rather, in that station, names and attributes are inseparable from each other, nor are they distinguishable from the causeless Essence. The realities of the divine states (shu'unat) cannot be differentiated either conceptually or actually from each other or from the undifferentiated Essence. For example, there is no [existential] differentiation between the Name 'the All-Knowing' and the [Names] 'the All-Seeing', 'the All-Hearing', and the other Names; nor between these Essential Attributes and the Essence itself; nor between the Realities and Archetypes [a'yan], which are potential and passive, and these names and attributes. Indeed the Archetypes and Realities and Quiddities [mahiyah] of [all] things are, in this mighty station of ahadiyah, but stages in that Essence without a trace of deviation [ghayriyyat] from perfect oneness and annihilation. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.8-9, MKT2:006)

...consider the point; how letters and words are folded up and hidden within the essence (huwiyyat) and reality of a point with perfect effacement and annihilation so that no trace can be discerned of the existence of these letters and words nor is there any differentiation between them. Rather they are completely obliterated and utterly annihilated and have no existence except in the essence (dhat) of the point. In the same way the names and attributes of God and the essential states [shu'unat dhatiyya] are completely and utterly annihilated in the station of ahadiyah so that not a whiff can be inhaled from them of either actual or conceptual existence. This original point is the 'Hidden Treasure' of these letters and words and they were incorporated and immersed within it and from it they appeared. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.10, MKT2:008)

In the World of ahadiyah, they [the Names and Attributes] are identical to the Essence. In the World of wahidiyah, they are distinguished. These stations of ahadiyah and pillars of wahidiyah and Divinity have always remained and will continue to endure. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.25, MKT2:032)

In the [Arabic] language 'Ama' denoteth a very light and subtle cloud, which is seen and then not seen. Thus by close investigation thou wilt see something, but it will not be seen by mere observation. For this reason, in the usage of the mystic knowers, 'Ama' signifieth the Universal reality without individuations, for individuations exist in the mode of simplicity (bisatah) and unity (wahidiyah). They are not differentiated from the Essence when it becomes individualized. They refer to this stage by the terms Ahadiyah [undifferentiated oneness] and 'Ama'. This is the degree of the 'Hidden Treasure' mentioned in the hadith, for attributes are individuations existing in the Essence but not differentiated from it. They are seen and then not seen. This, in brief, is what is meant by 'Ama'. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Asraru'l-Athar 4:394)

In the Word of God there is still another unity - the oneness of the Manifestations of God.... This is a unity divine, heavenly, radiant, merciful - the one reality appearing in its successive Manifestations.... There is also the divine unity or entity, which is sanctified above all concept of humanity. It cannot be comprehended nor conceived because it is infinite reality and cannot become finite. Human minds are incapable of surrounding that reality because all thoughts and conceptions of it are finite, intellectual creations and not the reality of Divine Being which alone knows itself. For example, if we form a conception of Divinity as a living, almighty, self-subsisting, eternal Being, this is only a concept apprehended by a human intellectual reality. It would not be the outward, visible reality, which is beyond the power of human mind to conceive or encompass. We ourselves have an external, visible entity; but even our concept of it is the product of our own brain and limited comprehension. The reality of Divinity is sanctified above this degree of knowing and realization. It has ever been hidden and secluded in its own holiness and sanctity above our comprehending. Although it transcends our realization, its lights, bestowals, traces and virtues have become manifest in the realities of the Prophets, even as the sun becomes resplendent in various mirrors. These holy realities are as reflectors, and the reality of Divinity is as the sun, which, although it is reflected from the mirrors, and its virtues and perfections become resplendent therein, does not stoop from its own station of majesty and glory and seek abode in the mirrors; it remains in its heaven of sanctity. At most it is this: that its lights become manifest and evident in its mirrors or manifestations. Therefore, its bounty proceeding from them is one bounty, but the recipients of that bounty are many. This is the unity of God; this is oneness -- unity of Divinity, holy above ascent or descent, embodiment, comprehension or idealization -- divine unity. The Prophets are its mirrors; its lights are revealed through Them; its virtues become resplendent in Them, but the Sun of Reality never descends from its own highest point and station. This is unity, oneness, sanctity; this is glorification whereby we praise and adore God. PUP.192-193

Two stations can be observed in the Divine Unity (tawhid): Existential Oneness (tawhid-i-wujudi), and this is that [station] wherein they negate everything with a 'no' and affirm the Absolute Reality. This means that they do not acknowledge the existence of anything other than the Absolute Reality, in the sense that all things, when placed next to the manifestation and remembrance of It, have been and will continue to be absolute nothingness (fana-yi mahd).... [The second station in Divine Unity,] Manifestational Oneness (tawhid-i shuhudi), is that [station] where the signs of the Primal Divine Unity, the manifestations of Eternity, and the effulgences of the light of Singleness can be observed in all things. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah, Iqtidarat, p. 107)

...the realm of the Throne of Hahut, the Paradise of ahadiyah. None is capable of expounding even a letter of that verse in that Paradise. This inasmuch as that realm is that of the mystery of endless duration (samadaniyah), the Unique Sonship, the incomparable Israelicity and the resplendent selfhood. Its exoteric aspect is the essence of its esoteric aspect and its esoteric aspect is the essence of its exoteric aspect. It is inappropriate that anyone should attempt to elucidate a single letter of it.... If oceans of Light should surge forth in that realm all who are in the heavens and on earth would assuredly be drowned save a number of the Letters of Manifestation. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in the Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3.1 p.31)

The names of God derive from those attributes which are the perfections belonging to the reality of the Essence. In the station of the absolute oneness (ahadiyyah) of the Essence, these names have neither manifestation nor distinction, and no trace, indication, or sign, for they are dispositions that belong to the Essence in the mode of simplicity and original oneness. Rather, it is in the station of unity-multiplicity (wahidiyyah) that the names become manifested, distinguished, realized, established, and given existence - an existence which emanateth from the merciful Reality and giveth rise to spiritual realities and heavenly essences at the level of the fixed archetypes (a'yan-i-thabita).... The first is applicable to the reality of the Essence in the station of absolute oneness. His existence is the same as His essence.... The second is applicable to the station of necessity, where existence is distinct from essence, though the former is concomitant of the latter in such a way that separation and disassociation are inconceivable and unimaginable, since existence is an essential attribute of essence. The third is applicable to the station of contingency, where something's existence is acquired from another and obtained from that which is beyond itself. In this case, its existence is other than its essence... ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Tafsir-i-Bismillahu'l-Rahmanu'l-Rahim, MKT1:049. Quoted in K. Brown's article on Creation)

Within the Hidden Essence, the stirrings of love and the inner yearnings [mayi-i dhati] necessitated Perfect Burnishing and Clarification (and the phrase 'Perfect Burnishing' among some of the mystic knowers is the manifesting of the Absolute to Itself in the archetypal forms [a'yan] and the word 'Clarification' is the gazing by the Unconditioned Beauty upon the effulgences of Its own Beauty in the mirrors of Realities and Forms). Therefore the Essential Dispositions have, through the Divine Outpouring (fayd-i-aqdas), manifested themselves out of the station of Essence into the station of Divine Knowledge [hadrat-i 'ilm]. This is the first manifestation of the Absolute from the Hidden Treasure in the Divine Knowledge. And from this manifestation the Eternal Archetypes ('ayan thabitah) came into intellectual being. And each one, according to its inherent capacity, is distinguished from the others in the mirrors of the Divine Knowledge. And this secondary station is set up along the lines of the first stage, the stage of the Mystery of Primary Oneness (ahadiyah). And this [second] stage is known as the Secondary Unknown, Manifested Oneness (wahidiyah) and the Eternal Archetypes. And the Eternal Archetypes are the Forms of the Divine intellect, which have not inhaled the breezes of existence but have come into being as intellectual existences [within the Divine Consciousness]. And they have become distinct from each other. And this secondary stage is also called the Hidden Treasure because the Archetypes and Realities which are the objects of the knowledge [ma'lumat] of the Absolute in the mirror of Divine Knowledge, are also incorporated in the Essence [of the Absolute] in the utmost state of concealment and of simplicity and oneness. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:009-010. Cf. K. Brown's translation in his paper on Originality of Species: "Inasmuch as the movement of love and essential yearning in the Hidden Being necessitated perfect burnishing and clarification (and 'perfect burnishing' in the opinion of some of the mystic knowers is the manifestation of the True One to himself in the forms of the archetypes, and 'clarification' is the gazing of the Absolute Beauty upon the effulgences of his own beauty in the mirrors of realities and archetypes), the essential states became manifested through the most holy outpouring (fayd-i-aqdas) from the station of the Essence into the station of the divine knowledge... And this stage is expressed as the secondary unknown, conferred oneness (wahidiyah), and the station of the permanent archetypes. These permanent archetypes are the forms of the divine knowledge which have not yet inhaled the fragrance of actual existence.")

The creative movement, or, to use the technical terminology of wahdat al-wujud philosophy, the self-manifestation (tajalli) of the Absolute which is activated by the principle of love, emerges for the first time at the stage of ahadiyah and is called the 'most sacred Emanation' (Fayd-i-Aqdas). As the result of this Emanation, the stage of wahidiyah becomes established. The wahidiyah, is the ontological state at which the original absolute Oneness of the reality of existence appears with inner articulations. These inner articulations are called, in accordance with the traditional terminology of theology, divine Names and Attributes. In this sense the stage of wahidiyah is called the stage of the Names and Attributes (asma' wa-sifat). Another name of this stage is the stage of knowledge (`ilm), i.e. divine Consciousness. This appellation comes from the idea that the wahidiyah is the stage at which God becomes conscious of Himself in the form of His own essential Perfections (kamalat dhatiyah). The essential Perfections of God that are thus established in divine Consciousness with clear demarcations are called the 'eternal Archetypes' (a`yan thabitah). Structurally, each eternal Archetype is considered to be the zahir or exterior of [a] particular divine Name which is the batin or interior of the Archetype. The eternal Archetypes are to be regarded as ontological models which are eternally established in divine Consciousness and upon which the phenomenal things are produced in the empirical dimension of time and space.... The eternal Archetypes become actualized as individual phenomenal things only at the next stage, that of the concrete existent, or the world of creaturely things. And the creative or self-manifesting activity of the absolute reality of existence by which this ontological 'descent' is actualized is called the 'sacred emanation' (fayd muqaddas) in distinction from the 'most sacred emanation' by which the ahadiyah develops into wahidiyah. (Izutsu, "An Analysis of Wahdat al-Wujud", in Creation and the Timeless Order of Things, p. 92: See also Sufism and Taoism, pp. 159-192 and The Concept and Reality of Existence, p.82-83)
