



...love and affection raised their banner within the Essence of the Absolute prior to the manifestation of the Essential Dispositions (shu'unat dhatiyya) from the stage of Primal Unity (ahadiyih) to the stage of archetypal existence. (And the Hidden Essence became enraptured with Its own Beauty within Itself and this became the origin of all love and yearning and the source of all affection and ardour). This love and affection are identical to the Essence of the Absolute and are not separate from or additional to it. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.14, MKT2:013)

I was a Hidden Treasure. I wished [loved] to be made known, and thus I called creation into being in order that I might be known. KA#176 note 23 (from a Hadith)

To begin with, let us recall the hadith which all our mystics of Islam untiringly meditate, the hadith in which the Godhead reveals the secret of His passion (his pathos): 'I was a hidden Treasure and I yearned to be known. Then I created creatures in order to be known by them.'... This divine passion, this desire to reveal Himself and to know Himself in beings through being known by them, is the motive underlying an entire divine dramaturgy, and eternal cosmogony. This cosmogony is neither an Emanation in the Neoplatonic sense of the word nor, still less, a creatio ex nihilo. It is rather a succession of manifestations of being, brought about by an increasing light, within the originally undifferentiated God; it is a succession of tajalliyat, of theophanies. (H. Corbin, Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 114)

And when that Hidden Essence revealed Its Essence to Its Essence and showed forth Its Self to Its Self, the Maiden of Love, which was veiled within the canopy of the Essence of Unity, came forth. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:012)

Say: God hath made My hidden love the key to the Treasure; would that ye might perceive it! But for the key, the Treasure would to all eternity have remained concealed; would that ye might believe it! Say: This is the Source of Revelation, the Dawning-place of Splendour, Whose brightness hath illumined the horizons of the world. Would that ye might understand! KA#015

And when the blessed Tree is kindled by itself within itself, and that Divine Fire burneth by its essence [dhat] within its essence, this is the stage of 'I wished to be made known'. KA n.023; quoting 'Abdu'l-Baha in MKT2:050.

From eternity Thou didst Thyself describe Thine own Self unto Thy Self, and extol, in Thine own Essence, Thine Essence unto Thine Essence. PM#184 p328

In the state of unification directed towards unification - and that is the Essence of Beauty witnessing Its own Beauty and Perfection within Its Essence, without the intermediation of a locus of manifestation or the mirror of Being. And this effulgence and manifestation of the Essence is within the Essence itself, in the same way that the realities of lovers were concealed in the hiding-place of non-existence but the Essence of Primal Unity hoisted the banner of love and yearning; and the forms of the attracted ones were concealed within the Canopy of [Its] Essence [huwiyyat] but the Loved One of Reality became lost in love with Its own Beauty and Perfection. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:016)

The third [kind of love] is the love of God toward the Self or Identity of God. This is the transfiguration of His Beauty, the reflection of Himself in the mirror of His Creation. This is the reality of love, the Ancient Love, the Eternal Love. Through one ray of this Love all other love exists. PT#58:6 p180

(a) The love of God towards the identity of God. Christ has said God is Love. PT#58:10 p182

God (al-haqq) wanted to see the essences (archetypes -- al-a'yan) of His most perfect Names (al-asma al-husna) whose number is infinite - and if you like you can equally well say: God wanted to see His own Essence ('ayn) in one global object (creation -- kawn) which having been blessed with existence (al-wujud) summarized the Divine Order (Command -- al-amr) so that there He could manifest His mystery (sirr) to Himself. (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 8)

The Being of Intellect, therefore, is activity, and there is nothing to which the activity is directed; so it is self-directed. Thinking itself, it is thus with itself and holds its activity directed to itself. Plotinus, Enn.V.3.7         But consider: Why should intellect be good?... Is it because he exists? What then would he gain from existence? What difference would there be in existing or altogether not existing, unless one makes affection for oneself the reason for all this? Enn.VI.7.24




Know thou of a certainty that Love is the secret of God's holy Dispensation, the manifestation of the All-Merciful, the fountain of spiritual outpourings. Love is heaven's kindly light, the Holy Spirit's eternal breath that vivifieth the human soul. Love is the cause of God's revelation unto man, the vital bond inherent, in accordance with the divine creation, in the realities of things. Love is the one means that ensureth true felicity both in this world and the next. Love is the light that guideth in darkness, the living link that uniteth God with man, that assureth the progress of every illumined soul. Love is the most great law that ruleth this mighty and heavenly cycle, the unique power that bindeth together the divers elements of this material world, the supreme magnetic force that directeth the movements of the spheres in the celestial realms. Love revealeth with unfailing and limitless power the mysteries latent in the universe. Love is the spirit of life unto the adorned body of mankind, the establisher of true civilization in this mortal world, and the shedder of imperishable glory upon every high-aiming race and nation. SWAB#012 p027, Ruhi8.1.40

The first [kind of love] is the love that flows from God to man; it consists of the inexhaustible graces, the Divine effulgence and heavenly illumination. Through this love the world of being receives life. Through this love man is endowed with physical existence, until, through the Breath of the Holy Spirit - this same love - he receives eternal life and becomes the image of the Living God. This love is the origin of all the love in the world of creation. PT#58:4 p180

...the greatest bestowal of God is love. Love is the source of all the bestowals of God. Until love takes possession of the heart, no other divine bounty can be revealed in it. PUP.015

The love which is from God is the fundamental.  This love is the object of all human attainment, the radiance of heaven, the light of man. PUP.168

...consider and observe how the bestowals of God successively descend upon mankind, how the divine effulgences ever shine upon the human world.  There can be no doubt that these bestowals, these bounties, these effulgences emanate from love.... Unless love exists, the divine blessing could not descend upon any object or thing.  Unless there be love, the recipient of divine effulgence could not radiate and reflect that effulgence upon other objects.... the realm of hearts and spirits is illumined and resuscitated through the shining rays of the Sun of Reality and the bounties of the love of God. PUP.256

For God is love, and all phenomena find source and emanation in that divine current of creation.  The love of God haloes all created things.  Were it not for the love of God, no animate being would exist.... religion is the revelation of the will of God, the divine fundamental of which is love. PUP.315

...the divine religions are intended to be the means of true human cooperation, that they are united in the purpose of making humanity one family, for they rest upon the universal foundation of love, and love is the first effulgence of Divinity. PUP.338

Love is, in reality, the first effulgence of Divinity and the greatest splendor of God. PUP.397

Although in the world of existence the outpourings of the Almighty are infinite, yet the greatest divine outpouring is the love of God.... The fire of the love of God is like unto the lightning which strikes upon the head of nature, emasculating it of its virility and leaving it fallen upon the ground - a lifeless body. Consequently, the greatest power in the world of existence is the love of God. SW v08#11 p143 (from a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha)

The love of God is like the sun; it shines upon everything and this is His relationship to man; but the love of Man to God is borrowed Light because it is impossible for Man to love unless God had first loved. Love is the greatest Bounty of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, "Pilgrim notes Taken at the Holy Household", p. 5)

But while God does not create, the first principle of God, Love, is the creative principle. Love is an outpour from God, and is pure spirit. It is one aspect of the Logos, the Holy Spirit. It is the immediate cause of the laws which govern nature, endless verities of nature which science has uncovered. BSC#609 p.300

He who does not love does not know God; for God is love. 1 Jn 4:7
