



We have already explained that the very names and attributes of Divinity require the existence of created things. ...all the divine names and attributes call for the existence of created things. SAQ#47.2 (was SAQ.180)

The Creator has ever had a creation, and the rays have ever emanated and shone forth from the Sun of Truth; for a lightless sun would be impenetrable darkness. The names and attributes of God require the existence of things, and no cessation in the outpouring of God's ancient grace can ever be contemplated, for this would be contrary to the divine perfections. SAQ#80.7 (was SAQ.281)

This infinite universe is from everlasting. The sovereignty, power, names and attributes of God are eternal, ancient. His names presuppose creation and predicate His existence and will.... God is infinite; the works of God are infinite; the bestowals of God are infinite. PUP.158-159

The names and attributes of Divinity are requirements of this world....  all the names and attributes of God require the existence of objects or creatures upon which they have been bestowed and in which they have become manifest. PUP.219

These names and attributes of Divinity are eternal and not accidental. This is a very subtle point which demands close attention. Their existence is proved and necessitated by the appearance of phenomena.... the divine names and attributes presuppose the existence of phenomena implied by those names and attributes.... If we try to conceive of a time when creation was nonexistent, when there were no subjects or creatures under divine dominion and control, Divinity itself would disappear; there would be a cessation of the bounty of God... The sovereignty of God is eternal. There has been no beginning; there will be no end. PUP.271-272

God is the Creator. The word creator presupposes or connotes creation.... If we should say that there was a time in past ages when God was not possessed of His creation or that there was a beginning for the world, it would be a denial of creation and the Creator.... Among the bounties of God is revelation. Hence revelation is progressive and continuous. PUP.377-378

The world of Divinity presupposes creation, presupposes recipients of bounty, presupposes the existence of worlds. No Divinity can be conceived as separate from creation... PUP.462

There is no separation between a thing and its inherent qualities. AL.027

It is impossible to imagine the cessation of certain attributes and virtues which are coexistent with God... in the outpouring of His virtues there is no cessation at all. Think and ponder upon this very deeply, because this is a very subtle point in Divine Science. (From a talk of Abdu'l-Baha, in The Sufi Quarterly (1928) vol. 3, p. 229)

The Divine Names are essentially the same as the Named. And the Named is (ultimately) no other than God. (But a difference comes into being because) the Names (unlike the Essence) do not cease to require the realities which they themselves produce. And the realities which the Names require are nothing other than the world.... What is absolutely free from any need of the world is solely the Absolute qua Essence. The Lordship has no such property. (Ibn 'Arabi, Fusus al-Hikam, in Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 114)

His name, the Creator, presupposeth a creation, even as His title, the Lord of Men, must involve the existence of a servant. GWB#078 p150

If we acknowledge that there is a beginning for this world of creation, we acknowledge that the sovereignty of God is accidental.... the requirements of the attributes of God do not admit of cessation or interruption, for the names of God are actually and forever existing and not potential. PUP.219

If we should say that there was a time in past ages when God was not possessed of His creation or that there was a beginning for the world, it would be a denial of creation and the Creator.... The sovereignty thereof is everlasting, and the creation thereof is without beginning and without end. PUP.378

And as for [the objection] that has been mentioned previously concerning the fact that if [the concepts of] bringing into being and origination become attached to realities and potentialities, it becomes necessary to postulate compulsion and force in the creation of the True and Self-Sufficient One. And this would deny the complete Justice and all-embracing Mercy of God.... For example with respect to the sun and its rays, the degree of its effusion and action with respect to its rays is identical. And yet the rays according to their own desire and pleasure can be found hundreds and thousands of miles from the sun while some encircle close to the sun. Therefore notice that the fact that rays are scattered from the sun to far and near does not mean that the sun has arranged some of them to be near and some of them to be distant but rather in bestowing existence it makes no distinction or augmentation with respect to any. It has manifested all with the same effulgence. But each, according to its own desire, has accepted a particular station and status. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:038-039)

God hath ever been described with all names and attributes; and among the requirements of these names and attributes is that the creator hath ever been and will ever be in need of a creation, the bestower of grace must have a recipient of the grace, the king must have his kingdom... This divine sovereignty is ancient and from everlasting. At no time hath there been any cessation... (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:158 and AvK1.113)

...the attributes of divine perfection are not so yielding to the exertions of the human mind as to enable us to determine whether the divine knowledge is in need of objects or not. SAQ#82.14




the Prophets teach that God's knowledge does not require the existence of created things, whereas the knowledge of the creatures requires the existence of objects of knowledge. If the divine knowledge stood in need of aught else, then it would be like the knowledge of the creatures and not that of God; for the Pre-existent is incommensurate with the originated and the originated is opposite to the Pre-existent.... ...since the knowledge of the originated is in need of objects of knowledge, the knowledge of the Pre-existent must be independent of their existence. It follows that the specifications and individuations of created things, which are the objects of the divine knowledge, are not pre-existent. Moreover, the attributes of divine perfection are not so yielding to the exertions of the human mind as to enable us to determine whether the divine knowledge is in need of objects or not. SAQ#82.13-14 (was SAQ.293-294)

Just as He does not need for His being alive the existence of anything other than Him, He also does not need for His knowledge the existence of objects of knowledge. And the Essence [of God] continues to be [un]connected to things. (Lawh-i-Basitatu'l-Haqiqah, Iqtidarat p.105ff)

For His knowledge over all things, before their existence, is the same as His knowledge over all things after their existence, and His power before the creation of all things is the same as His power after the creation of all things. (The Bab, in His exordium to the Persian Bayan, P. Terry's trans., p. 12)

...no difference whatsoever exists between the Essence and the [essential] Attributes. And so in this respect no one can penetrate that Knowledge which is identical to the Essence in order to be able to determine the relationship between the Knowledge of the Absolute and things, whether it calls for objects of knowledge or not; whether it is dependent on the realities and potentialities of things or not. Certainly knowledge without an object of knowledge is not possible in the contingent world, but no-one knows [how the matter stands within] the Essence [of the Absolute]. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:029-030)

...God knoweth each thing, at all times, as itself, although there is no object of knowledge with Him in the stage of His eternity. Rather, He knoweth each thing, whether universal or particular, before its existence in the same way that He knoweth it after its existence, and no one knoweth how this is possible except God. The doctrine of the distinction between the concepts of life and knowledge is invalid in the station of the Essence, for just as He is alive by virtue of His existence and requireth not the existence of another through which to receive life, in the same way He knoweth each thing and every atom without needing an object of knowledge in the stage of His Essence. (The Bab, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Valiy-i-Shushtar, INBA 14:417 ff., 40:137 ff., 53:34 ff., 67:195 ff., translation by Keven Brown)

Verily, that which hath forced some of the philosophers to conceive of the presence of the eternal intelligible forms (a'yan-i-thabitah) in the Essence of God, and the doctrine of the True Indivisible Being (Basitu'l-Haqiqah), was their desire to validate the concept of the knowledge of God, magnified be His station! For they stated that knowledge must needs have an object of knowledge, and hence the affirmation of divine knowledge indicateth the existence of pluralities within the Essence of God.... Verily, their grievous sin is due to their use of analogy in their desire to comprehend the essential properties of the Essence at the level of the contingent beings. Exalted be God above such a notion!... Inasmuch as it is evident that His life is His Essence, since His life doth not rely on the existence of any living thing besides Him, then the same is true with regard to His knowledge. He, glorified be He, hath been omniscient from and throughout His immemorial eternity, without the existence of any object of knowledge. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.044 and GOH.195)

...the attributes of divine perfection are not so yielding to the exertions of the human mind as to enable us to determine whether the divine knowledge is in need of objects or not. SAQ#82.14
