



Briefly, good deeds become perfect and complete only after the knowledge of God has been acquired, the love of God has been manifested, and spiritual attractions and goodly motives have been attained. Otherwise, though good deeds be praiseworthy, if they do not spring from the knowledge of God, from the love of God, and from a sincere intention, they will be imperfect. SAQ#84.7 (was SAQ.302)




...unless we practice the Teachings we cannot possibly expect the Faith to grow, because the fundamental purpose of all religions - including our own - is to bring man nearer to God, and to change his character, which is of the utmost importance. Too much emphasis is often laid on the social and economic aspects of the Teachings; but the moral aspect cannot be overemphasized. LG#1701 (6 Sep. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Love manifests its reality in deeds, not only in words - these alone are without effect. In order that love may manifest its power there must be an object, an instrument, a motive. PT#09:2 p035

We verily behold your actions. If We perceive from them the sweet smelling savor of purity and holiness, We will most certainly bless you. GWB#141 p307

The essence of faith is fewness of words and abundance of deeds; he whose words exceed his deeds, know verily his death is better than his life. TB.156

In former times men either became believers, or else they became enemies of the cause of God.... Faith consisted in the blind acceptance of these truths and those who accepted were considered saved, the rest were doomed to perdition. But in this day the question is far more important. Faith does not consist in belief, it consists in deeds. It is not sufficient to believe in Baha'u'llah and to say, 'I am of the people of El-Abha'; we must act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah, who commands us to become centers of divine attraction, so that the attributes of God may emanate from us, that we may become wise and well intentioned to all the peoples of the earth in order to better the condition of all. ADP.041

Make not your deeds as snares wherewith to entrap the object of your aspiration, and deprive not yourselves of this Ultimate Objective for which have ever yearned all such as have drawn nigh unto God. Say: The very life of all deeds is My good pleasure, and all things depend upon Mine acceptance. KA#036

Adorn yourselves with the raiment of goodly deeds. He whose deeds attain unto God's good pleasure is assuredly of the people of Baha and is remembered before His throne. Assist ye the Lord of all creation with works of righteousness, and also through wisdom and utterance. KA#073

Holy words and pure and goodly deeds ascend unto the heaven of celestial glory. Strive that your deeds may be cleansed from the dust of self and hypocrisy and find favor at the court of glory; for ere long the assayers of mankind shall, in the holy presence of the Adored One, accept naught but absolute virtue and deeds of stainless purity. PHW#68, Ruhi1.1.1 (1st sentence)

Prayer and meditation are very important factors in deepening the spiritual life of the individual, but with them must go also action and example, as these are the tangible results of the former. Both are essential. LG#1483 (15 May 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

O people! Words must be supported by deeds, for deeds are the true test of words. Without the former, the latter can never quench the thirst of the yearning soul, nor unlock the portals of vision before the eyes of the blind. TU.1#13

Words must be followed by deeds. Whoso accepteth the words of the Friend is in truth a man of deeds; otherwise a dead carcass is verily of greater worth. TU.4#09

O servants! Be pure in your deeds, and conduct yourselves in accordance with the words of God. Such are the counsels of the incomparable Lord. TU.4#13

O servant of God! The day of deeds hath come: Now is not the time for words. The Messenger of God hath appeared: Now is not the hour for hesitation. TU.5#05

Verily I say unto thee: Of all men the most negligent is he that disputeth idly and seeketh to advance himself over his brother. Say, O brethren! Let deeds, not words, be your adorning. PHW#05, Ruhi1.1.1 (last sentence), Ruhi7.1.4

Say: Should your conduct, O people, contradict your professions, how think ye, then, to be able to distinguish yourselves from them who, though professing their faith in the Lord their God, have, as soon as He came unto them in the cloud of holiness, refused to acknowledge Him, and repudiated His truth? GWB#128 p275-276

One righteous act is endowed with a potency that can so elevate the dust as to cause it to pass beyond the heaven of heavens. It can tear every bond asunder, and hath the power to restore the force that hath spent itself and vanished.... GWB#131 p287

That which can ensure the victory of Him Who is the Eternal Truth, His hosts and helpers on earth, have been set down in the sacred Books and Scriptures, and are as clear and manifest as the sun. These hosts are such righteous deeds, such conduct and character, as are acceptable in His sight. Whoso ariseth, in this Day, to aid Our Cause, and summoneth to his assistance the hosts of a praiseworthy character and upright conduct, the influence flowing from such an action will, most certainly, be diffused throughout the whole world. GWB#131 p287, ADJ#039 p024, Ruhi6.2.19

Beware, O people of Baha, lest ye walk in the ways of them whose words differ form their deeds. Strive that ye may be enabled to manifest to the peoples of the earth the signs of God, and to mirror forth His commandments. Let your acts be a guide unto all mankind, for the professions of most men, be they high or low, differ from their conduct. It is through your deeds that ye can distinguish yourselves from others. Through them the brightness of your light can be shed upon the whole earth. GWB#139 p305, Ruhi1.1.1 (1st sentence)

...nothing on earth can be demonstrated by words alone, and every level of existence is known by its signs and symbols, and every degree in man's development has its identifying mark. SDC.098-099

All that are on earth shall pass away, while good deeds alone shall endure; to the truth of My words God doth Himself bear witness. KA#070

Love ye all religions and all races with a love that is true and sincere and show that love through deeds and not through the tongue; for the latter hath no importance, as the majority of men are, in speech, well-wishers, while action is the best. SWAB#034 p069

As to the fundamentals of teaching the Faith: know thou that delivering the Message can be accomplished only through goodly deeds and spiritual attributes, an utterance that is crystal clear and the happiness reflected from the face of that one who is expounding the Teachings. It is essential that the deeds of the teacher should attest the truth of his words. SWAB#146 p175

Wherefore it is incumbent upon all Baha'is to ponder this very delicate and vital matter in their hearts, that, unlike other religions, they may not content themselves with the noise, the clamor, the hollowness of religious doctrine. Nay, rather they should exemplify in every aspect of their lives those attributes and virtues that are born of God and should arise to distinguish themselves by their goodly behaviour. They should justify their claim to be Baha'is by deeds and not by name.... For in this holy Dispensation, the crowning glory of bygone ages and cycles, true faith is no mere acknowledgement of the unity of God, but rather the living of a life that will manifest all the perfections and virtues implied in such belief. ('Abdu'l-Baha, in The Baha'i World, vol. 1, p. 12; MKT4.050)

The wrong in the world continues to exist just because people talk only of their ideals, and do not strive to put them into practice. If actions took the place of words, the world's misery would very soon be changed into comfort. PT#01:10 p016

Put into practice the Teaching of Baha'u'llah, that of kindness to all nations. Do not be content with showing friendship in words alone, let your heart burn with loving kindness for all who may cross your path. PT#01:7 p015, Ruhi1.1.5 (last sentence)

The betterment of the world can be accomplished through pure and goodly deeds, through commendable and seemly conduct. ADJ#039 p036-037, Ruhi1.1.1 (Baha'u'llah)

The days when idle worship was deemed sufficient are ended. The time is come when naught but the purest motive, supported by deeds of stainless purity, can ascend to the throne of the Most High and be acceptable unto Him. (The Bab, DB.093, Ruhi3a.L19, Ruhi5.1.14)

Let your actions cry aloud to the world that you are indeed Baha'is, for it is actions that speak to the world and are the cause of the progress of humanity. If we are true Baha'is speech is not needed. Our actions will help on the world, will spread civilization, will help the progress of science, and cause the arts to develop. Without action nothing in the material world can be accomplished, neither can words unaided advance a man in the spiritual Kingdom. It is not through lip-service only that the elect of God have attained to holiness, but by patient lives of active service they have brought light into the world. PT#26:5 p080-081, Ruhi6.2.19 (1st sentence)

A man born to this world should do many good deeds, as a garland maker makes garlands from a heap of flowers. The scent of flowers is carried no farther than the wind allows, neither the sandalwood, tager, nor jasmine. But the fragrance of the deeds of good men spreads to the ends of the earth, in all directions, regardless of the wind. (Dhammapada 4.10-11)         A careless person, quoting much of the scriptural text but not living it, cannot share the abundance of the holy life, just as the cowherd, counting other people's cattle, cannot taste the milk or ghee. (Dhammapada 1.19)

Whatever a man's tongue speaketh, that let him prove by his deeds. If he claimeth to be a believer, then let him act in accordance with the precepts of the Abha Kingdom. SWAB#115, Ruhi8.1.41

It is our duty and privilege to translate the love and devotion we have for our beloved Cause into deeds and actions that will be conducive to the highest good of mankind. COC#1269 (20 Nov. 1924 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Indeed when we see the increasing darkness in the world today we can fully realize that unless the Message of Baha'u'llah reaches into the hearts of men and transforms them, there can be no peace and spiritual progress in the future. His constant hope is that the believers will conduct themselves, individually and in their Baha'i Community life, in such a manner as to attract the attention of others to the Cause. The world is not only starving for lofty principles and ideals, it is, above all, starving for a shining example which the Baha'is can and must provide. LG#1413 (22 Feb. 1945 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

This love amongst the believers is the magnet which will, above all else, attract the hearts and bring new souls into the Cause. Because obviously the teachings -- however wonderful -- cannot change the world unless the Spirit of Baha'u'llah's love is mirrored in the Baha'i Communities. COC#1302 (27 Oct. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...Peace of mind is gained by the centering of the spiritual consciousness on the Prophet of God; therefore you should study the spiritual Teachings, and receive the Water of Life from the Holy Utterances. Then by translating these high ideals into action, your entire character will be changed, and your mind will not only find peace, but your entire being will find joy and enthusiasm. LG#381 (15 Oct. 1952 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Ascribe not to any soul that which thou wouldst not have ascribed to thee, and say not that which thou doest not. This is My command unto thee, do thou observe it. AHW#29

...you should deepen your knowledge of the history and of the tenets of the Faith, not merely by means of careful and thorough study, but also through active, whole-hearted and continued participation in all the activities, whether administrative or otherwise, of your community. The Baha'i community life provides you with an indispensable laboratory, where you can translate into living and constructive action the principles which you imbibe from the Teachings. By becoming a real part of that living organism you can catch the real spirit which runs throughout the Baha'i Teachings. To study the principles, and to try to live according to them, are, therefore, the two essential mediums through which you can ensure the development and progress of your inner spiritual life and of your outer existence as well. COC#2259 (2 Nov. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Let him then who hopeth to attain the presence of his Lord work a righteous work. Qur'an 18:111 (quoted in KI.138)

Knowledge is not enough; we hope by the Love of God we shall put it into practice. A spiritual universal Force is needed for this. Meetings are good for engendering spiritual force. To know that it is possible to reach a state of perfection, is good; to march forward on the path is better. We know that to help the poor and to be merciful is good and pleases God, but knowledge alone does not feed the starving man, nor can the poor be warmed by knowledge or words in the bitter winter; we must give the practical help of Loving-kindness. AL.060

Indeed one's righteous deeds testify to the truth of one's words. TB.024

That which is truly spiritual must light the path to God, and must result in deeds. We cannot believe the call to be spiritual when there is no result. Spirit is reality, and when the spirit in each of us seeks to join itself with the Great Reality, it must in turn give life. AL.107

Realizing that wealth is desirable is not becoming wealthy. The admission that scientific attainment is praiseworthy does not confer scientific knowledge. Acknowledgment of the excellence of honor does not make a man honorable. Knowledge of human conditions and the needed remedy for them is not the cause of their betterment. To admit that health is good does not constitute health. A skilled physician is needed to remedy existing human conditions. PUP.157




In former times men either became believers, or else they became enemies of the cause of God.... Faith consisted in the blind acceptance of these truths and those who accepted were considered saved, the rest were doomed to perdition. But in this day the question is far more important. Faith does not consist in belief, it consists in deeds. It is not sufficient to believe in Baha'u'llah and to say, 'I am of the people of El-Abha'; we must act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah, who commands us to become centers of divine attraction, so that the attributes of God may emanate from us, that we may become wise and well intentioned to all the peoples of the earth in order to better the condition of all. ADP.041

Faith is not so much what we believe as what we carry out. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of Akka, p. 12)

Up to now, to believe was to acknowledge, to make a confession of faith, but in this greatest of all Causes, believing means to have praiseworthy qualities and to perform praiseworthy acts. (Bada'iyu'l-Athar, vol. 2, quoted in BW v13 p1187)
