



57. QUESTION: Concerning disparities between certain revealed verses. ANSWER: Many Tablets were revealed and dispatched in their original form without being checked and reviewed. Consequently, as bidden, they were again read out in the Holy Presence, and brought into conformity with the grammatical conventions of the people in order to forestall the cavils of opponents of the Cause. Another reason for this practice is that the new style inaugurated by the Herald, may the souls of all else but Him be offered up for His sake, was seen to be marked by substantial latitude in adherence to the rules of grammar; sacred verses therefore were then revealed in a style which is for the most part in conformity with current usage for ease of understanding and concision of expression. (Baha'u'llah, Questions and Answers)

In answer to a criticism calling His [the Bab's] attention to an infraction by Him of the rules of grammar, He cited certain passages from the Qur'an as corroborative evidence, and, turning aside, with firmness and dignity, a frivolous and irrelevant remark thrown at Him by one of those who were present, summarily disbanded that gathering by Himself rising and quitting the room. GPB.021

No sooner had He [the Bab] uttered the words, 'In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, praise be to Him who has created the heaven and the earth,' than Mulla Muhammad-i-Mamaqani interrupted and called His attention to all infraction of the rules of grammar. 'This self-appointed Qa'im of ours,' he cried in haughty scorn, 'has at the very start of his address betrayed his ignorance of the most rudimentary rules of grammar!' 'The Qur'an itself,' pleaded the Bab, 'does in no wise accord with the rules and conventions current amongst men. The Word of God can never be subject to the limitations of His creatures. Nay, the rules and canons which men have adopted have been deduced from the text of the Word of God and are based upon it. These men have, in the very texts of that holy Book, discovered no less than three hundred instances of grammatical error, such as the one you now criticise. Inasmuch as it was the Word of God, they had no other alternative except to resign themselves to His will.'[1] DB.317 [1] "If anyone should raise an objection to the grammar or syntax of these verses, this objection is vain, because the rules of grammar should be taken from the verses and not the verses written in compliance with the rules of grammar. There is no doubt that the Master of these verses denied these rules, denied that he, himself, was ever aware of them." ("Le Bayan Persan," vol. 1, pp. 45-46.)

And now regarding some of the passages in which words have been altered or have flowed in contradiction to the grammatical rules of the people of veils: It is so that people will be certain that the author of these passages did not come to them by borrowing verses and scholarly knowledge. The ruling on altering [words] (Qur'an 10:64) was rescinded by a new mode [of writing] and the prohibition on contradicting grammar was rescinded by a divine grammar. (The Bab, Sahifiy-i-'Adliyyih, provisional translation, in MNP.057)

Some of the Bab's earliest verses were an open provocation to the Shi'i clerics. One example was his stance on the complex rules of Arabic grammar. He not only wrote in a fashion that contradicted those rules, he even went so far as to call them 'satanic' (al-qawa'id al-shaytaniyyah) (Qayyum al-Asma', sura 86) and claimed that through his intercession God had decided to free language from the rules and chains placed on its neck in the past (Risalah fi 'Ilm al-Nahw, vol. 67, p. 121; cf. Amanat 1989, pp. 269f.). In another early work, his Persian Scripture of Justice (Sahifih-yi 'Adliyyih), the Bab wrote: "Just as the worlds have progressed (taraqqi namudih) the [usages of] words and vowels have progressed. It is well nigh possible that a day will shine forth when the verses of God shall be recited devoid of such rules as are now common among the people" (Sahifih-yi 'Adliyyih, p. 12). (Armin Eschraghi, in "Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy -- Some Notes on the Bab's Sharia", MNP.225)
