



Know, verily, the heart wherein the least remnant of envy yet lingers, shall never attain My everlasting dominion (Jabarut), nor inhale the sweet savors of holiness breathing from My kingdom (Malakut) of sanctity. PHW#06, Ruhi5.1.14

Covetousness hath hindered you from giving a hearing ear unto the sweet voice of Him Who is the All-Sufficing. Wash it away from your hearts, that His Divine secret may be made known unto you. GWB#085 p169

O children of understanding! If the eyelid, however delicate, can deprive man's outer eye from beholding the world and all that is therein, consider then what would be wrought if the veil of covetousness were to descend upon his inner eye. Say: O people! The darkness of greed and envy becloudeth the radiance of the soul even as the clouds obstruct the light of the sun. TU.1#11         "Consider the human eye. Though it hath the faculty of perceiving all created things, yet the slightest impediment may so obstruct its vision as to deprive it of the power of discerning any object whatsoever." GWB#082 p160

The heart is the treasury of My mystery; surrender it not into the hand of covetous desires. TU.1#17

And this is man's uttermost wretchedness:  that he should live inert, apathetic, dull, involved only with his own base appetites.  When he is thus, he has his being in the deepest ignorance and savagery, sinking lower than the brute beasts.  SDC.004

Suffer not the habitation wherein dwelleth My undying love for thee to be destroyed through the tyranny of covetous desires, and overcloud not the beauty of the heavenly Youth with the dust of self and passion. GWB#153 p323

For desire is a flame that has reduced to ashes uncounted lifetime harvests of the learned, a devouring fire that even the vast sea of their accumulated knowledge could never quench. SDC.059

Ye are even as the bird which soareth, with the full force of its mighty wings and with complete and joyous confidence, through the immensity of the heavens, until, impelled to satisfy its hunger, it turneth longingly to the water and clay of the earth below it, and, having been entrapped in the mesh of its desire, findeth itself impotent to resume its flight to the realms whence it came. Powerless to shake off the burden weighing on its sullied wings, that bird, hitherto an inmate of the heavens, is now forced to seek a dwelling-place upon the dust. Wherefore, O My servants, defile not your wings with the clay of waywardness and vain desires, and suffer them not to be stained with the dust of envy and hate, that ye may not be hindered from soaring in the heavens of My divine knowledge. GWB#153 p327, Ruhi1.3.9

Abandon not the everlasting beauty for a beauty that must die, and set not your affections on this mortal world of dust. PHW#14, Ruhi2.1.6, Ruhi5.1.20

The candle of thine heart is lighted by the hand of My power, quench it not with the contrary winds of self and passion. PHW#32, Ruhi2.1.6

Had the world been of any worth in His sight, He surely would never have allowed His enemies to possess it, even to the extent of a grain of mustard seed. He hath, however, caused you to be entangled with its affairs, in return for what your hands have wrought in His Cause. This, indeed, is a chastisement which ye, of your own will, have inflicted upon yourselves, could ye but perceive it. GWB#103 p209

Yet the pursuit of passion and desire will wrap the eyes in a thousand veils that rise out of the heart to blind the sight and the insight as well. "Desire and self come in the door, And blot out virtue, bright before, And a hundred veils will rise, From the heart, to blind the eyes." SDC.064, Ruhi5.3.6

Purge thy heart from malice and, innocent of envy, enter the divine court of holiness. PHW#42

Envy (al-hasad) consumeth the body and anger (al-ghayz) burneth the liver: avoid these two as you would a fierce lion. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation from the Tablet to the Physician, in BSB 6:4-7:2 p23)
