



Such was their progress that the philosophers of Greece would come to seek knowledge from the learned men of Israel. Among them was Socrates, who came to Syria and acquired from the children of Israel the teachings of the oneness of God and the immortality of the spirit. He then returned to Greece and promulgated these teachings.... SAQ#5.3 (was SAQ.014)

In the splendor of the reign of Solomon their sciences and arts advanced to such a degree that even the Greek philosophers journeyed to Jerusalem to sit at the feet of the Hebrew sages and acquire the basis of Israelitish law. According to eastern history this is an established fact. PUP.362-363

Even the celebrated philosophers of Greece journeyed to Jerusalem in order to study with the Israelitish sages, and many were the lessons of philosophy and wisdom they received. PUP.406

Know that the idea of the unity of existence [wahdatu'l-wujud] is ancient and is not restricted to the Theosophists and the Sufis alone.[1] Indeed, it was espoused by some of the Greek philosophers, such as Aristotle, who said: "The uncompounded Reality [basit-i-haqiqi] is all things, but it is not any single one of them."[2] "Uncompounded" stands here in contrast to "composed"--that is to say, that solitary Reality, which is sanctified and exalted above composition and division, has resolved itself into countless forms. Thus, real Existence is all things, but it is not any single one of them. SAQ#82.2 (was SAQ.290) [1] While, as 'Abdu'l-Baha explains, the idea is of ancient origin, its history in Islamic thought begins with Ibnu'l-'Arabi (1165-1240). "Ibnu'l-'Arabi is a thoroughgoing monist, and the name given to his doctrine (vahdatu'l-vujud, the unity of existence) justly describes it. He holds that all things pre-exist as ideas in the knowledge of God, whence they emanate and whither they ultimately return." R. A. Nicholson, "Mysticism", The Legacy of Islam, ed. Sir Thomas Arnold and Alfred Guillaume (Oxford University Press, 1931), p. 224. [2] Cf. Plotinus, Ennead 5.2.1: "The One is all things and not a single one of them..." (Armstrong's trans.); and Plato, Parmenides 160b2-3: "Thus, if there is a One, the One is both all things and nothing whatsoever, alike with reference to itself and to the Others" (Cornford's trans.). In the tradition of the Islamic philosophers, certain of the writings of Plotinus are attributed to Aristotle.

We must not take many of `Abdu'l-Baha's statements as dogmatic finalities, for there are other points which when added to them round out the picture. For instance, when He calls Aristotle and Plato Philosophers of the East, He is obviously placing them in that category because He believes they belong more correctly to Eastern culture than to Central European and the New World cultures of the West. When He calls the philosophers of the West materialistic this does not for a moment mean He includes all Western philosophers for, as you truly point out, many of them have been very spiritual in their concepts.... Historians cannot be sure Socrates did not visit the Holy Land. But believing as we do that 'Abdu'l-Baha had an intuitive knowledge quite different from our own, we accept His authority on the matter... (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Arohanui, p. 88)

It is recorded in eastern histories that Socrates journeyed to Palestine and Syria and there, from men learned in the things of God, acquired certain spiritual truths; that when he returned to Greece, he promulgated two beliefs: one, the unity of God, and the other, the immortality of the soul after its separation from the body; that these concepts, so foreign to their thought, raised a great commotion among the Greeks, until in the end they gave him poison and killed him. SWAB#025 p055

It is noteworthy that at both the beginning and end of this section of the Tablet, Baha'u'llah indicates that He is quoting "some accounts of the sages". These would have been the historical accounts familiar to the person whom He is addressing in the Tablet. The fact that Baha'u'llah makes such statements for the sake of illustrating the spiritual principles that He wishes to convey, does not necessarily mean that He is endorsing their historical accuracy. (3 Nov. 1987 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, in a Research Department memorandum on Socrates in the Baha'i Writings)

Empedocles, who distinguished himself in philosophy, was a contemporary of David, while Pythagoras lived in the days of Solomon, son of David, and acquired Wisdom from the treasury of prophethood. TB.145         We must not take this statement too literally; "contemporary" may have been meant in Persian as something far more elastic than the English word. Likewise, the whole translation probably needs revising. (15 Feb. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi effendi)

We have no historical proof of the truth of the Master's statement regarding the Greek philosophers visiting the Holy Land etc., but such proof may come to light through research in the future. (15 Feb. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi effendi)
