



...all things, in their inmost reality, testify to the revelation of the names and attributes of God within them. Each according to its capacity, indicateth, and is expressive of, the knowledge (ma'arifat) of God. So potent and universal is this revelation, that it hath encompassed all things, visible and invisible. KI#109 p102, GWB#090 p178, Ruhi3a.L15

All created things are resplendent signs of God. For instance, the rays of the sun shine upon all earthly things, yet the light that falls upon the plains, the mountains, the trees and fruits is only in such measure as to make them visible, to ensure their growth, and to cause them to attain the object of their existence. The Perfect Man, however, is even as a clear mirror in which the Sun of Truth is revealed and manifested in the fullness of its attributes and perfections. Thus the reality of Christ was a bright and polished mirror of the greatest purity and clarity. The Sun of Truth, the Essence of the Divinity, appeared in that mirror and manifested its light and heat therein, yet it did not descend from the heights of holiness and the heaven of sanctity to reside within it. No, it continues to abide in its loftiness and sublimity, but has been revealed and manifested in the mirror in all its beauty and perfection. SAQ#27.5 (was SAQ.113-114)

Know thou that every created thing is a sign of the revelation of God. Each, according to its capacity, is, and will ever remain, a token of the Almighty.... ...each and every created thing hath, through the act of the Divine Will, been made a sign of His glory. So pervasive and general is this revelation that nothing whatsoever in the whole universe can be discovered that doth not reflect His splendor. Under such conditions every consideration of proximity and remoteness is obliterated. GWB#093 p184

It should be borne in mind, however, that when the light of My Name, the All-Pervading, hath shed its radiance upon the universe, each and every created thing hath, according to a fixed decree, been endowed with the capacity to exercise a particular influence, and been made to possess a distinct virtue. GWB#093 p189

The first emanation is the outpouring grace of the Kingdom, which has emanated from God and has appeared in the realities of all things, even as the rays emanating from the sun are reflected in all things. And that grace--the rays--appears in infinite forms in the realities of all things, and is specified and individuated according to their capacity, receptivity, and essence. SAQ#82.17 (was SAQ.295)

...the moment the word expressing My attribute The Omniscient issueth forth from My mouth, every created thing will, according to its capacity and limitations, be invested with the power to unfold the knowledge of the most marvelous sciences... GWB#074 p142

Consider the visible sun: Although it shineth with the same radiance upon all existence, and at the behest of the Lord of Revelation bestoweth light on all things, yet in each place it becometh manifest and sheddeth its bounty according to the potentialities of that place. For instance, in a mirror it reflecteth its own disk and shape, and this is due to the clarity of the mirror itself; through a crystal it maketh fire to appear; and in other things it showeth only the effect of its shining, but not its full disk. And yet, through that effect, by the command of the Creator it traineth each thing according to the capacity of that thing, even as thou dost observe. CDB#2.36 (was SV.18-19)

He is what he is and remains what he has been, but his rays differ according to the purity of the mirrors and according to the difference of forms and colours. (Baha'u'llah, Lawh-i-Hirtik, in Momen, The Babi and Baha'i Religions, p. 217)

The realities of things are manifested in a degree proportionate to their stations, ranks, receptivity and capacity. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:018)

The light of the sun becomes apparent in each object according to the capacity of that object.  The difference is simply one of degree and receptivity.  The stone would be a recipient only to a limited extent; another created thing might be as a mirror wherein the sun is fully reflected; but the same light shines upon both. PUP.014

The Sun of Reality is one; its bestowal is one; its heat is one; its rays are one; it shines upon all the phenomenal world, but the capacity for comprehending it differs according to the kingdoms, each kingdom receiving the light and bounty of the eternal Sun according to its capacity. PUP.173

...the gifts of thy Lord are encircling thee in a similar way as the spirit encircles the body at the beginning of the amalgamation of the elements and natures in the womb; the power of the spirit begins then to appear in the body gradually and successively according to the preparation and capacity to receive that everlasting abundance. TAB.157

Every creature has an innate degree of perfection to which he must attain. The Divine Teacher desires man to be educated that he may attain to the high rank of his own reality. ADP.111

The Divine Essence (dhat) discloses itself only in a form required by the very 'preparedness' [isti'dad] of the locus in which occurs the self-manifestation. There can be no other way. (Ibn 'Arabi, in Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 34)

God first created the entire world as something amorphous and without grace comparable to a mirror not yet polished; but it is a rule in the Divine activity to prepare no 'place' without it receiving a Divine spirit as is explained (in the Koran) by the blowing of the Divine spirit into Adam; and this is none other than the actualization of the aptitude (capacity -- al-isti'dad) which such a form possesses, having already the predisposition for it, to receive the inexhaustible effusion (al-fayd) of the essential revelation (Divine effulgence -- al-tajalli). (Ibn 'Arabi, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 9)

In every world, He appears according to the capacity of that world. For example, in the world of spirits He manifests Himself to them and appears unto them with the signs of Spirit. So, likewise, in bodies, in the world of names and attributes; and in the worlds which are not known to any save God. All of these worlds have their position from this Manifestation. BSC#382 p.206 (Baha'u'llah, from the Lawh-i-Zuhur)

God's grace is like the rain that cometh down from heaven: the water is not bounded by the limitations of form, yet on whatever place it poureth down, it taketh on limitations - dimensions, appearance, shape - according to the characteristics of that place... The rain itself hath no geometry, no limits, no form, but it taketh on one form or another, according to the restrictions of its vessel. In the same way, the Holy Essence of the Lord God is boundless, immeasurable, but His graces and splendours become finite in the creatures, because of their limitations... SWAB#139 p161

The divine emanations (fayudat-i illahiyah) pervading all created beings have had no beginning and will have no end. That illimitable bounty becomes effective in every station whenever the capacity appears to receive it. In every station there is a specialized capacity. PUP.160, KHT2.106 (Revised translation in Brown (2001), 104-105)

...certain minerals come from the stony regions of the earth.  All are minerals, all are produced by the same sun, but one remains a stone while another develops the capacity of a glittering gem or jewel. PUP.023

From the exalted source, and out of the essence of His favor and bounty He hath entrusted every created thing with a sign of His knowledge, so that none of His creatures may be deprived of its share in expressing, each according to its capacity and rank, this knowledge. This sign is the mirror of His beauty in the world of creation. The greater the effort exerted for the refinement of this sublime mirror, the more faithfully will it be made to reflect the glory of the names and attributes of God, and reveal the wonders of His signs and knowledge. GWB#124 p262     "There is no contradiction between Gleanings p. 66 [GWB#027 p066] and p. 262. In one place He says the mirror will never be free from dross, in the other He says it will be 'so cleansed as to be able' etc. It is a relative thing; perfection will never be reached, but great, and ever greater, progress can be made." LG#387 (8 Jan. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Whatsoever in the contingent world can either be expressed or apprehended, can never transgress the limits which, by its inherent nature, have been imposed upon it. God alone, transcendeth such limitations. GWB#078 p151

To each created thing, the Ancient Sovereignty hath portioned out its own perfection, its particular virtue and special excellence, so that each in its degree may become a symbol denoting the sublimity of the true Educator of humankind, and that each, even as a crystalline mirror, may tell of the grace and splendour of the Sun of Truth. COC#578, Ruhi7.2.4 (Abdu'l-Baha)




...the human embryo grows and develops gradually in the womb of its mother and assumes different forms and conditions until it reaches maturity with the utmost beauty and appears in a consummate form with the utmost grace. In like manner, the seed of this flower which you see before you was, in the beginning, a small and insignificant thing, but it grew and developed in the womb of the earth and assumed different forms until it appeared with such perfect vitality and grace in this degree. It is likewise clear and evident that this terrestrial globe came to exist, grow, and develop in the matrix of the universe and assumed different forms and conditions until it gradually attained its present completeness, became adorned with countless beings, and appeared in such a consummate form. It is therefore evident that the original matter, which is like unto the embryo, initially took the form of composed and combined elements, and that composition gradually grew and developed over a myriad ages and centuries, passing from one shape and form to another until, through the consummate wisdom of God, it appeared with such completeness, order, arrangement, and soundness. SAQ#47.7-8 (was SAQ.182-183)

...the gifts of thy Lord are encircling thee in a similar way as the spirit encircles the body at the beginning of the amalgamation of the elements and natures in the womb; the power of the spirit begins then to appear in the body gradually and successively according to the preparation and capacity to receive that everlasting abundance. TAB.157

The human spirit has certain signs and manifestations in the stage of the embryo, and yet other splendours and expressions in the stages of childhood, adolescence, and maturity. The spirit is one, and yet in the embryonic stage it lacks the powers of sight and hearing, whereas in the stages of adolescence and maturity it appears with the utmost splendour and radiance. SAQ#37.13 (was SAQ.150)

Although this dawn light is dim and pale, a wise man who views the march of the sunrise at its very beginning can foretell the ascendancy of the sun in its full glory and effulgence.... Now is the beginning of the manifestation of spiritual power, and inevitably the potency of its life forces will assume greater and greater proportions. PUP.131

As weakness and evanescence are inherent in the nature of the contingent world, it was not possible that it should sustain a complete manifestation of the signs and evidences of this Revelation, which hath shone forth from the Summit of Sinai, except in a gradual manner. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:019)

You have asked as to what point in man's evolution he becomes conscious of self. This consciousness of self in man is a gradual process, and does not start at a definite point. It grows in him in this world and continues to do so in the future spiritual world. Man can certainly recall past experiences in his evolution, and even when his soul leaves this world it will still remember its past. LG#392 (20 Nov. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




The human spirit has certain signs and manifestations in the stage of the embryo, and yet other splendours and expressions in the stages of childhood, adolescence, and maturity. The spirit is one, and yet in the embryonic stage it lacks the powers of sight and hearing, whereas in the stages of adolescence and maturity it appears with the utmost splendour and radiance. SAQ#37.13 (was SAQ.150)
