



This is the true meaning of the three Persons of the Trinity. Otherwise, the foundations of the religion of God would rest upon an illogical proposition which no mind could ever conceive, and how could the mind be required to believe a thing which it cannot conceive? Such a thing could not be grasped by human reason--how much less be clothed in an intelligible form--but would remain sheer fancy. SAQ#27.9 (was SAQ.115)

The teachings of Baha'u'llah are the light of this age and the spirit of this century. Expound each of them at every gathering. The first is investigation of truth... The fourth, conformity between science and divine revelation... SWAB#070 p107

Religion must conform to science and reason; otherwise, it is superstition. God has created man in order that he may perceive the verity of existence and endowed him with mind or reason to discover truth. Therefore, scientific knowledge and religious belief must be conformable to the analysis of this divine faculty in man. PUP.287

...every era hath a spirit; the spirit of this illumined era lieth in the teachings of Baha'u'llah. For these lay the foundation of the oneness of the world of humanity and promulgate universal brotherhood. They are founded upon the unity of science and religion and upon investigation of truth. They uphold the principle that religion must be the cause of amity, union and harmony among men. They establish the equality of both sexes and propound economic principles which are for the happiness of individuals. They diffuse universal education, that every soul may as much as possible have a share of knowledge. They abrogate and nullify religious, racial, political, patriotic and economic prejudices and the like. Those teachings that are scattered throughout the Epistles and Tablets are the cause of the illumination and the life of the world of humanity. SWAB#071 p109

Religion and reason are the same; they cannot be separated from each other. (From a talk of Abdu'l-Baha, spoken Nov. 27, 1911 in Paris, in a Research Department memorandum dated 14 Jan. 1991, as reprinted in BSB 5:1-2 p.75)

Science and religion are light; religion must be in harmony with science and reason. (From a talk of Abdu'l-Baha, spoken Nov. 27, 1911 in Paris, in a Research Department memorandum dated 14 Jan. 1991, as reprinted in BSB 5:1-2 p.75)

The greatest bounty of God to man is knowledge... If religious beliefs should contradict science and reason, they are assuredly ignorance. (From a talk of Abdu'l-Baha, spoken Nov. 27, 1911 in Paris, in a Research Department memorandum dated 14 Jan. 1991, as reprinted in BSB 5:1-2 p.75)

You have asked how we can harmonize scientific theories (philosophical ideas -- afkar-i-filaysufi) with the ideas of religion. Know that this material world is the mirror of the Kingdom, and each of these worlds is in complete correspondence with the other. The correct theories of this world which are the result of sound scientific [philosophical] thinking are in agreement with the divine verses without the slightest divergence between them, for the truth of all things is laid away in the treasuries of the Kingdom. When that truth is manifested in the material world, the archetypes and realities of beings attain realization. If a scientific theory [philosophical opinion -- ara'-i-falsafiyyih] does not correspond with the divine verses, it is certain that it is the essence of error. (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha in MKT3:172-173, provisional translation, as quoted in Brown (2001), xvi) Alternative translation 1: This nether world is a mirror the Kingdom, and each one is in full conformity with the other. Sound and sensible ideas arising from pure and genuine philosophies are completely consistent with the heavenly Writings. There is no difference whatsoever between the two, inasmuch as the inner essences of all things exist in the treasuries of the Kingdom. Once these inner essences are revealed in the physical world, they assume actual existence ... Should any philosophical views not conform to the heavenly Writings, it is certain that they are naught but error. (Malakut-i-Vujud, p. 181, AB00457) Alternative translation 2: Know thou that this nether world is the mirror of the Kingdom, and the former is exactly the counterpart of the latter. The sound opinions of the world, which are the results of philosophical right thinking, correspond to the Traces of the Kingdom, and there does not exist any difference whatever between them. (anon. pilgrim notes, May 1911, PN 1911_page_0008.jpg)

...the religion of God is the promoter of truth, the establisher of science and learning, the supporter of knowledge, the civilizer of the human race, the discoverer of the secrets of existence, and the enlightener of the horizons of the world. How then could it oppose knowledge? God forbid! On the contrary, in the sight of God knowledge is the greatest human virtue and the noblest human perfection. To oppose knowledge is pure ignorance, and he who abhors knowledge and learning is not a human being but a mindless animal. For knowledge is light, life, felicity, perfection, and beauty, and causes the soul to draw nigh to the divine threshold. It is the honour and glory of the human realm and the greatest of God's bounties. Knowledge is identical to guidance, and ignorance is the essence of error. SAQ#34.9 (was SAQ.137)

The third teaching or principle of Baha'u'llah is that religion and science are in complete agreement. Every religion which is not in accordance with established science is superstition. Religion must be reasonable. If it does not square with reason, it is superstition and without foundation.... God has endowed man with reason that he may perceive what is true.... if religious belief, principle or creed is not in accordance with the intellect and the power of reason, it is surely superstition. PUP.063-064

Any religious belief which is not conformable with scientific proof and investigation is superstition, for true science is reason and reality, and religion is essentially reality and pure reason; therefore, the two must correspond.... If we say religion is opposed to science, we lack knowledge of either true science or true religion, for both are founded upon the premises and conclusions of reason, and both must bear its test. PUP.107

The fundamental principles of the Prophets are scientific, but the forms and imitations which have appeared are opposed to science.  If religion does not agree with science, it is superstition and ignorance; for God has endowed man with reason in order that he may perceive reality. PUP.128

Religion and science conform and agree.  If a question of religion violates reason and does not agree with science, it is imagination and not worthy of credence. PUP.169

Religion must stand the analysis of reason.  It must agree with scientific fact and proof so that science will sanction religion and religion fortify science.  Both are indissolubly welded and joined in reality. If statements and teachings of religion are found to be unreasonable and contrary to science, they are outcomes of superstition and imagination. PUP.175

The fourth teaching of Baha'u'llah is the agreement of religion and science. God has endowed man with intelligence and reason whereby he is required to determine the verity of questions and propositions. If religious beliefs and opinions are found contrary to the standards of science, they are mere superstitions and imaginations PUP.181

...religion is in complete harmony with science and reason. If religious belief and doctrine is at variance with reason, it proceeds from the limited mind of man and not from God; therefore, it is unworthy of belief and not deserving of attention; the heart finds no rest in it, and real faith is impossible. How can man believe that which he knows to be opposed to reason? Is this possible? Can the heart accept that which reason denies? Reason is the first faculty of man, and the religion of God is in harmony with it. Baha'u'llah has removed this form of dissension and discord from among mankind and reconciled science with religion by revealing the pure teachings of the divine reality. PUP.231

...religion must reconcile and be in harmony with science and reason. If the religious beliefs of mankind are contrary to science and opposed to reason, they are none other than superstitions and without divine authority, for the Lord God has endowed man with the faculty of reason in order that through its exercise he may arrive at the verities of existence. PUP.316

...religion must be in conformity with science and reason; otherwise, it is superstition; for science and reason are realities, and religion itself is the Divine Reality unto which true science and reason must conform. PUP.373-374

...religion must be in conformity with science and reason.  If belief and teaching are opposed to the analysis of reason and principles of science, they are not worthy of acceptance. PUP.434

...religion must be in harmony with science and reason.  If it does not conform to science and reconcile with reason, it is superstition. PUP.455

We may think of science and one wing and religion as the other; a bird needs two wings for flight.... Any religion that contradicts science or that is opposed to it, is only ignorance.... Whatever the intelligence of man cannot understand, religion ought not to accept. Religion and science walk hand in hand, and any religion contrary to science is not the truth. PT#40:16-18 p130-131

Science must be accepted. No one truth can contradict another truth. PT#41:9 p137

There is no contradiction between true religion and science. When a religion is opposed to science it becomes mere superstition.... How can a man believe to be a fact that which science has proved to be impossible? If he believes in spite of his reason, it is rather ignorant superstition than faith. The true principles of all religions are in conformity with the teachings of science.... All religioius laws conform to reason, and are suited to the people for whom they are framed, and for the age in which they are to be obeyed.... Put all your beliefs into harmony with science; there can be no opposition, for truth is one. When religion, shorn of its superstitions, traditions, and unintelligent dogmas, shows its conformity with science, then will there be a great unifying, cleansing force in the world which will sweep before it all wars, disagreements, discords and struggles -- and then will mankind be united in the power of the Love of God. PT#44:2-3,6,26 p140-145

Now, all questions of morality contained in the spiritual, immutable law of every religion are logically right. If religion were contrary to logical reason then it would cease to be a religion and be merely a tradition. Religion and science are the two wings upon which a man's intelligence can soar into the heights, with which the human soul can progress. It is not possible to fly with one wing alone! Should a man try to fly with the wing of religion alone he would quickly fall into the quagmire of superstition, whilst on the other hand, with the wing of science alone he would also make no progress, but fall into the despairing slough of materialism. PT#44:14 p143

It is impossible for religion to be contrary to science, even though some intellects are too weak or too immature to understand truth. God made religion and science to be the measure, as it were, of our understanding. Take heed that you neglect not such a wonderful power. Weigh all things in this balance. PT#44:23-24 p145

Religion and Science are intertwined with each other and cannot be separated. These are the two wings with which humanity must fly. One wing is not enough. Every religion which does not concern itself with Science is mere tradition, and that is not the essential. AL.028-029

Religion must agree with science, so that science shall sustain religion and religion explain science.  The two must be brought together, indissolubly, in reality. ADP.027

A religion which does not conform with the postulates of science is merely superstition. ADP.082

...in the search for truth man must weigh religious questions in the balance of science and reason.  God has given us rational minds for this purpose, to penetrate all things, to find truth. ADP.102

...if religious principles do not accord with science and reason, they do not inspire the heart with confidence and assurance. ADP.152

...the wise men of the country have thought that religion is opposed to science. Know thou that the great ethical foundation of knowledge is divine revelation and the basis of religion is reality itself. ADP.187

The foundations of divine religion do not negate sound reason and true science.... All His teachings and laws are in keeping with the spirit of this age and the needs of the people. And greatest of all is the abandonment of religious superstitions and dogmas and the conformity of spiritual matters with scientific and rational arguments. (Mahmud's Diary, 13 Nov. 1912, p. 389)

...there is a basic distinction between scientific fact and reasoning on the one hand and the conclusions or theories of scientists on the other. There is, and can be, no conflict between true religion and true science... (12 Dec. 1975 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, in Compilation on Scholarship, #48)

...the principle of harmony of science and religion means not only that religious teachings should be studied in the light of reason and evidence as well as of faith and inspiration, but also that everything in creation, all aspects of human life and knowledge, should be studied in the light of revelation as well as in that of purely rational investigation. M63-86 217.5 (3 January 1979 from the Research Department)

"Knowledge is one point, which the foolish have multiplied". [Hadith] CDB#2.50 (was SV.24-25)

Know then that those mathematical [astronomical] questions which have stood the test of scrutiny and about the soundness of which there is no doubt are those that are supported by incontrovertible and logically binding proofs and by the rules of geometry as applied to astronomy; that are based on observations of the stars and careful astronomical research, and are in conformity with the principles of the universal themes expounded in the divine sciences. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:019) cf. "Thou hadst inquired about astronomy. Whatever dependeth on mathematics is acceptable, whereas the things previously established by the astrologers of old ... are figments of the imagination and products of the thinking of former generations, and are bereft of a firm foundation." (AB03340, https://adibmasumian.com/translations/ab03340/)

The Revelation proclaimed by Baha'u'llah, His followers believe, is divine in origin, all-embracing in scope, broad in its outlook, scientific in its method... ("The World Religion of Baha'u'llah", extracts from a letter of Shoghi Effendi to the High Commissioner of Palestine, Jun. 1933)

There is, and can be, no conflict between true religion and true science: true religion is revealed by God, while it is through true science that the mind of man "discovers the realities of things and becomes cognizant of their peculiarities and effects, and of the qualities and properties of beings" and "comprehendeth the abstract by the aid of the concrete". (18 Jan. 1982 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that religion must be in conformity with science and reason, so that it may influence the hearts of men. The foundation must be solid and must not consist of imitations. SWAB#227 p299

It has become customary in the West to think of science and religion as occupying two distinct -- and even opposed -- areas of human thought and activity. This dichotomy can be characterized in the pairs of antitheses: faith and reason; value and fact. It is a dichotomy which is foreign to Baha'i thought and should be regarded with suspicion by Baha'i scholars in every field. The principle of the harmony of religion and science means not only that religious teachings should be studied in the light of reason and evidence as well as of faith and inspiration, but also that everything in creation, all aspects of human life and knowledge, should be studied in the light of revelation as well as of purely rational investigation. In other words, a Baha'i scholar, when studying a subject, should not lock out of his mind any aspect of truth that is known to him. (From comments of the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice on the Baha'i Studies Seminar on Ethics and Methodology dated 3 Jan. 1979)

Our Father will not hold us responsible for the rejection of dogmas which we are unable either to believe or comprehend, for He is ever infinitely just to His children. PT#05:19 p026

The insights and skills generated by scientific advance will have always to look to the guidance of spiritual and moral commitment to ensure their appropriate application; religious convictions, no matter how cherished they may be, must submit, willingly and gratefully, to impartial testing by scientific methods. (The Universal House of Justice, Apr. 2002, to the world's religious leaders)

With regard to the harmony of science and religion, the Writings of the Central Figures and the commentaries of the Guardian make abundantly clear that the task of humanity, including the Baha'i community that serves as the "leaven" within it, is to create a global civilization which embodies both the spiritual and material dimensions of existence. The nature and scope of such a civilization are still beyond anything the present generation can conceive. The prosecution of this vast enterprise will depend on a progressive interaction between the truths and principles of religion and the discoveries and insights of scientific inquiry. This entails living with ambiguities as a natural and inescapable feature of the process of exploring reality. It also requires us not to limit science to any particular school of thought or methodological approach postulated in the course of its development. The challenge facing Baha'i thinkers is to provide responsible leadership in this endeavour, since it is they who have both the priceless insights of the Revelation and the advantages conferred by scientific investigation. M86-01 203.6 (19 May 1995 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

...the principle of harmony between religion and science, while it enables us, with the help of reason, to see through the falsity of superstitions, does not imply that truth is limited to what can be explained by current scientific concepts. Not only do all religions have their miracles and mysteries, but religion itself, and certain fundamental religious concepts, such as the nature of the Manifestations of God, are far from being explicable by present-day scientific theories. (16 Feb. 1996 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

...Baha'u'llah proclaimed that religion must correspond with science, for religion is reality and science is reality, and reality correpsonds. It is not multiple, there is no difference in any reality. If a religious question be opposed to reason and science, it is pure imagination and baseless, for the opposite of knowledge or science is ignorance. ('Abdu'l-Baha, from a talk on 24 May 1912 to the Free Religious Association, KHT2.086)

The reason why the world lacks unity, and lies broken and in heaps, is, because man is disunited with himself. He cannot be a naturalist, until he satisfies all the demands of the spirit. Love is as much its demand, as perception. Indeed, neither can be perfect without the other. In the uttermost meaning of the words, thought is devout, and devotion is thought. Deep calls unto deep. But in actual life, the marriage is not celebrated. There are innocent men who worship God after the tradition of their fathers, but their sense of duty has not yet extended to the use of all their faculties. And there are patient naturalists, but they freeze their subject under the wintry light of the understanding. Is not prayer also a study of truth, -- a sally of the soul into the unfound infinite? No man ever prayed heartily, without learning something. But when a faithful thinker, resolute to detach every object from personal relations, and see it in the light of thought, shall, at the same time, kindle science with the fire of the holiest affections, then will God go forth anew into the creation. (Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Nature" (1836), pp. 91-92)

Consider what it is that singles man out from among created beings, and makes of him a creature apart. Is it not his reasoning power, his intelligence? Shall he not make use of these in his study of religion? I say unto you: weigh carefully in the balance of reason and science everything that is presented to you as religion. If it passes this test, then accept it, for it is truth! If, however, it does not so conform, then reject it, for it is ignorance! PT#44:18 p144

All religions of the present day have fallen into superstitious practices, out of hamony alike with the true principles of the teaching they represent and with the scientific discoveries of the time. Many religious leaders have grown to think that the importance of religion lies mainly in the adherence to a collection of certain dogmas and the practice of rites and ceremonies! Those whose souls they profess to cure are taught to believe likewise, and these cling tenaciously to the outward forms, confusing them with the inward truth. Now, these forms and rituals differ in the various churches and amongst the different sects, and even contradict one another; giving rise to discord, hatred, and disunion. The outcome of all this dissension is the belief of many cultured men that religion and science are contradictory terms, that religion needs no powers of reflection, and should in no wise be regulated by science, but must of necessity be opposed, the one to the other. The unfortunate effect of this is that science has drifted apart from religion, and religion has become a mere blind and more or less apathetic following of the precepts of certain religious teachers, who insist on their own favourite dogmas being accepted even when they are contrary to science. This is foolishness, for it is quite evident that science is the light, and, being so, religion truly so-called does not oppose knowledge. We are familiar with the phrases 'Light and Darkness', 'Religion and Science'. But the religion which does not walk hand in hand with science is itself in the darkness of superstition and ignorance. Much of the discord and disunion of the world is created by these man-made oppositions and contradictions. If religion were in harmony with science and they walked together, much of the hatred and bitterness now bringing misery to the human race would be at an end. PT#44:14-16

...as we are a religion and not qualified to pass on scientific matters we cannot sponsor different treatments. COC#1082 (30 Sept. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

All that is revealed through Divine inspiration is the evident truth. Whatsoever runneth counter to the explicit Text, in matters related to philosophical or scientific inquiry, ariseth from a deficiency in these disciplines, and is not due to any flaw in the verities or the meanings derived from the One Who is the Object of all knowledge. (Provisional translation, written in 1907, AB00076)

Religion and science are as two concentric circles that revolve around one common point, which is reality. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Amv va Khalq, vol. 2, p. 129)
