



The foundation of the belief of the people of Baha ... is this: His holiness the exalted One (the Bab) is the Manifestation of the unity and oneness of God and the Forerunner of the Ancient Beauty (Baha'u'llah). His holiness, the Abha Beauty (Baha'u'llah) ... is the supreme Manifestation of God and the Day-Spring of His most divine Essence. All others are servants unto Him and do His bidding. WOB.128, WOB.133, WT.019, Ruhi8.1.33, Ruhi4.2.10

...the sole object of whatsoever My Previous Manifestation and Harbinger of My Beauty hath revealed hath been My Revelation and the proclamation of My Cause. GWB#115 p244-245

Emmanuel was indeed the Herald of the Second Coming of Christ, and a Summoner to the pathway of the Kingdom. SWAB#029 p060         "...this obviously refers to the Bab, as the text shows clearly, and is in no way a reference to [Emmanuel] Swedenborg." (9 May 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

O followers of the Son! We have once again sent John unto you, and He, verily, hath cried out in the wilderness of the Bayan: O peoples of the world! Cleanse your eyes! The Day whereon ye can behold the Promised One and attain unto Him hath drawn nigh! SLH.1#121

And yet, immeasurably exalted as is the station of the Bab, and marvellous as have been the happenings that have signalized the advent of His Cause, so wondrous a Revelation cannot but pale before the effulgence of that Orb of unsurpassed splendor Whose rise He foretold and whose superiority He readily acknowledged. We have but to turn to the writings of the Bab Himself in order to estimate the significance of that Quintessence of Light of which He, with all the majesty of His power, was but its humble and chosen Precursor. WOB.062

By God! The relationship between the Revelation of the Primal Point (the Bab) and this most wondrous, this most glorious Revelation is identical to that of the Revelation of John, son of Zechariah (John the Baptist), and the Spirit of God [Jesus]. This recurrence hath come to pass in every respect, for just as John the Baptist was both a Prophet [nabi] and a Messenger [rasul] of God, He likewise heralded the Manifestation Who succeeded Him, even as He hath said: 'O people! I herald unto you the Kingdom of God; it verily is near,' and in another connection, 'The Kingdom of heaven is at hand.' Furthermore, just as John the Baptist came invested with laws and ordinances, and just as the advent of Jesus Christ occurred during His time, the Primal Point--may My life be a sacrifice unto Him--declared thus, after making a universal covenant and heralding the Revelation to come: 'Verily, the end is nigh, and ye are fast asleep.' This utterance is the very same as the one proclaimed aforetime by John, son of Zechariah. (Bahaʼuʼllah, Kitab-i-Badi (Bahaʼi-Verlag, 2008), p. 79; provisional translation by Adib Masumian 9/2/2019)
