



Even in the physical realm, cleanliness will conduce to spirituality, as the Holy Writings clearly state. And although bodily cleanliness is a physical thing, it hath, nevertheless, a powerful influence on the life of the spirit. SWAB#129 p147

Since purity, and cleanliness and good scent, although physical, are signs of spiritual sanctity and divine breath, they induce spirituality. (From a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha to the grandmother of Dr. Amin Banani)

Matters related to man's spirit have a great effect on his bodily condition... treat thou the sick with both powers. SWAB#130 p150-151

There are two ways of healing sickness, material means and spiritual means.... Both means should be used and practised. Illnesses which occur by reason of physical causes should be treated by doctors with medical remedies; those which are due to spiritual causes disappear through spiritual means. SWAB#133 p151-152

It is certainly the case that sins are a potent cause of physical ailments. SWAB#134 p152

The greatest form of healing which the Baha'is can practice is to heal the spiritually sick souls of men by giving this greatest of all Messages to them. We can also try to help them, both physically and spiritually, through prayer. COC#1073 (23 Mar. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




...before illness striketh, haste thou to healing - that thou mayest become a physician of the spirit who, with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, healeth all manner of sickness in this famed and glorious age. SWAB#027 p057

The power of the Holy Spirit healeth both physical and spiritual ailments. SWAB#139 p162

Whensoever thou dost attend a patient, turn thy face toward the Lord of the heavenly Kingdom, ask the Holy Spirit to come to thine aid, then heal thou the sickness. SWAB#154 p181

But the fourth kind is when healing is brought about through the power of the Holy Spirit. This depends neither upon physical contact, nor upon sight, nor even upon presence: It is not dependent upon any condition. SAQ#72.7 (was SAQ.256)

We have no reason to believe that the healing of the Holy Spirit cannot be attracted by ordinary human beings. But this is rare, a mystery, and a gift of God. LG#936 (26 Mar. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Know that there are four kinds of treatment and healing without medicine. Two are due to material causes and two to spiritual ones.... [entire chapter] SAQ#72.2

Yesterday at table we mentioned, in connection with the question of spiritual medicine and healing, how illnesses can be cured through spiritual powers. Now we will speak of material healing. The science of medicine is still in its infancy and has not yet reached maturity. But when it reaches that stage, treatments will be administered with things that are not repulsive to the senses of taste and smell, that is, through foods, fruits, and plants that have an agreeable taste and a pleasant smell. For the cause of the intrusion of illness into the human body is either a physical agent or a nervous excitement and stimulation.... [entire chapter] SAQ#73.3




Resort ye, in times of sickness, to competent physicians; We have not set aside the use of material means, rather have We confirmed it through this Pen, which God hath made to be the Dawning-place of His shining and glorious Cause. KA#113

As you know Baha'u'llah has ordained that in case of illness we should always consult the most competent physicians. And this is exactly what the Guardian strongly advises you to do. For prayer alone is not sufficient. To render it more effective we have to make use of all the physical and material advantages which God has given us. Healing through purely physical forces is undoubtedly as inadequate as that which materialist physicians and thinkers vainly seek to obtain by resorting entirely to mechanical devices and methods. The best result can be obtained by combining the two processes, spiritual and physical. LG#927 (12 March 1934 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As regards Miss ... Shoghi Effendi feels unspeakably grateful for all the kind assistance you have been continually extending to her father in this assuredly heart-rending, nay indeed calamitous situation facing him. You did certainly well, however critical and hopeless his daughter's case may have been considered by the doctors, to advise him to take her to a hospital, and give her the best treatment medical science could possibly offer. In doing so you have acted in full conformity with the counsel so tenderly and repeatedly given by Baha'u'llah that in case of illness one should invariably consult and follow the treatment of competent and conscientious physicians. LG#938 (18 June 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Baha'u'llah tells us that in case of disease we should pray but at the same time refer to competent physicians, and abide by their considered decisions. Shoghi Effendi wishes you therefore to find whether your some has really become ill, and if he is, then follow the directions of the doctor. Being versed in the medical sciences they can treat better than even a loving mother can. You can render your assistance by praying for him and at the same time helping the physicians to treat him. LG#968 (9 April 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
