



The substance (jawhar) is a single word which hath shone forth from the mouth of the Will, and by it the heat appeared which God made to be the cause of motion in the universe. By it all things came forth. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in "Fa'il va Munfa'il" 'Andalib v5#19 p. 33)

He Who is both the Beginning and the End, He Who is both Stillness and Motion, is now manifest before your eyes. Behold how, in this Day, the Beginning is reflected in the End, how out of Stillness Motion hath been engendered. This Motion hath been generated by the potent energies which the words of the almighty have released throughout the entire creation. GWB#085 p168

O Amin, the cause of motion hath ever been heat, and the cause of heat is the Word of God. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, quoted in "Fa'il va Munfa'il" 'Andalib v5#19 p. 36)

It is assuredly the quintessence of [the divine, Cosmic] Activity (jawhar al-fa`il) from which are established the foundations of the world (qawwam al-`alām). It is [also] the "Heat" without which there would be no motion (al-haraka); for motion is a result of the action which is engendered thereby. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA4.080, quoted here)

Be thou as a throbbing artery, pulsating in the body of the entire creation, that through the heat generated by this motion there may appear that which will quicken the hearts of those who hesitate. TB.143

The world of existence came into being through the heat generated from the interaction between the active force and that which is its recipient. These two are the same, yet they are different. Thus doth the Great Announcement inform thee about this glorious structure. Such as communicate the generating influence [the twin agents; al-fa`ilayn] and such as receive its impact [the twin patients; al-munfa`ilayn] are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God which is the Cause of the entire creation... TB.140

Praise be to God, Who created the water through His manifest utterance in the Kingdom of Eternity. Then He gazed upon it and lo, it trembled within itself and a part of it became congealed. Thus the dusty earth appeared by His established decree in the world of origination. When these two elements became separated and distinguished one from another, the Tongue of Grandeur pronounced another word, and this water generated by the Will [mashiyyat] of the Most Manifest in the world of contingency moved, in that same realm of contingency, upon the earth generated by the Purpose [iradih] of the All-Merciful. By the interaction of these two a subtle, spiritual, luminous heat [harara] ascended by virtue of its potency to the uppermost degree in order to attain the station of which its all-glorious Lord speaketh. When it reached the utmost level, it stopped at that loftiest station, which is known as the loftiest sphere. Then the water became partially mixed with the earth and from them ascended another heat, which, on account of its feebleness, did not attain to the level of the first. It stopped at another station, which indicates the second sphere. In like manner, a heat ascended from these two one time after another until all the stations, by which is meant meant the spheres, became completed. Then the Tongue of Grandeur pronounced another word which caused the stations and spheres to revolve. From the force of the rotation a light shone forth and encompassed the face of heaven. Then brilliant stars and shining orbs appeared. When the majesty of His name, the Self-Subsisting, encompassed them from all directions, each one of the two became spherical, as is seen in the case of the sun and the moon. Exalted be the wise and almighty Creator, Who made His exalted Word to be the origin of the creation of the higher and lower worlds, the four elements, and the exalted, originated natures. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in Fa'ilayn va Munfa'ilayn, Andalib 5:19 p.32, INBA17:79-80)

Ascent and descent, stillness and motion, have come into being through the will of the Lord of all that hath been and shall be. The cause of ascent is lightness, and the cause of lightness is heat. Thus hath it been decreed by God. The cause of stillness is weight and density, which in turn are caused by cold. Thus hath it been decreed by God. TU.5#01

Heat exists in all things, but a force is needed to make it manifest. Likewise in the world of religion, the power of Baha'u'llah makes manifest the heat of the love of God ABU2229 there is no doubt that the blessed Word is penetrating and, like the sun's heat, influences all things - the only difference being that its effects appear more slowly in some things and more quickly in others. ABU1918
