



The higher plane, however, understandeth the lower. The animal, for instance, comprehendeth the mineral and vegetable, the human understandeth the planes of the animal, vegetable and mineral. SWAB#021 p047

...in the animal world, the mineral and vegetable characteristics are present and in addition the characteristics of the animal world are to be found, which are the faculties of hearing and of sight. In the human world the characteristics of the mineral, vegetable and animal worlds are found and in addition that of the human kind... SWAB#030 p061

The perfections of the mineral are translated into the vegetable and from thence into the animal, the virtue always attaining a superlative degree in the upward change.  In each kingdom we find the same virtues manifesting themselves more fully, proving that the reality has been transferred from a lower to a higher form and kingdom of being. PUP.088

The mineral kingdom possesses the power of existing. The plant has the power of existing and growing. The animal, in addition to existence and growth, has the capacity of moving about, and the use of the faculties of the senses. In the human kingdom we find all the attributes of the lower worlds, with much more added thereto. Man is the sum of every previous creation, for he contains them all. PT#05:14 p025

...human - the highest specialized organism of visible creation, embodying the qualities of the mineral, vegetable and animal plus an ideal endowment absolutely absent in the lower kingdoms - the power of intellectual investigation into the mysteries of outer phenomena.... man through the exercise of his scientific, intellectual power can rise out of this condition, can modify, change and control nature according to his own wishes and uses. Science, so to speak, is the breaker of the laws of nature.... He takes the sword from nature's hand and uses it upon nature's head. PUP.030




To maintain that the testimony of Providence was incomplete, that it hath therefore been the cause of the denial of the people, is but open blasphemy.... Nay, the manifold bounties of the Lord of all beings have, at all times, through the Manifestations of His divine Essence, encompassed the earth and all that dwell therein. Not for a moment hath His grace been withheld, nor have the showers of His loving-kindness ceased to rain upon mankind. KI#014 p013-014; GWB#013 p018

Since those sanctified realities, the universal Manifestations of God, encompass all created things both in their essence and in their attributes, since They transcend and discover all existing realities, and since They are cognizant of all things, it follows that Their knowledge is divine and not acquired--that is, it is a heavenly grace and a divine discovery.... Briefly, the universal Manifestations of God are aware of the truths underlying the mysteries of all created things, and thus They found a religion that is based upon, and consonant with, the prevailing condition of humanity. For religion consists in the necessary relationships deriving from the realities of things.... Religion, then, consists in the necessary relationships deriving from the reality of things. The universal Manifestations of God, being aware of the mysteries of creation, are fully informed of these necessary relationships and establish them as the religion of God. SAQ#40.6-9 (was SAQ.157-159)

Man has two planes: the physical and the intellectual. The divine revelators have three: their physical condition, which is shared by all mankind... their intellectual degree and their holy reality which surrounds all beings and comprehends secrets. Their horizons enfold the universe... ADP.059-060

Know verily that whenever this Youth turneth His eyes towards His own self, he findeth it the most insignificant of all creation. When He contemplates, however, the bright effulgences He hath been empowered to manifest, lo, that self is transfigured before Him into a sovereign Potency permeating the essence of all things visible and invisible. GWB#049 p102

But the universal divine Intellect ['aql-i-kulliy-i-ilahi], which transcends nature, is the outpouring grace [fayd] of the pre-existent Power. It encompasses all existing realities and receives its share of the lights and mysteries of God. It is an all-knowing power, not a power of investigation and sensing.... This divine intellectual power is confined to the holy Manifestations and the Daysprings of prophethood. A ray of this light falls upon the mirrors of the hearts of the righteous, that they may also receive, through the holy Manifestations, a share and benefit of this power. ...Their heavenly station encompasses all things, is aware of all mysteries, is informed of all signs, and rules supreme over all things. SAQ#58.4-5 (was SAQ.218-219)

I am the light which is before all things. It is I who am all things. From me all things came forth, and to me all things extend. Split a piece of wood, and I am there; lift up the stone, and you will find me. (Gospel of Thomas)




This spirit is the discovering power that encompasses all things. All the wondrous signs, all the crafts and discoveries, all the mighty undertakings and momentous historical events of which you are aware, have been discovered by this spirit and brought forth from the invisible realm into the visible plane through its spiritual power. Thus it abides upon the earth and yet makes discoveries in the heavens, and deduces that which is unknown from known and visible realities. SAQ#36.4 (was SAQ.144)

The all-encompassing must assuredly be greater than that which is encompassed, and thus the latter can in no wise discover the former or comprehend its reality. No matter how far human minds may advance, even attaining the highest degree of human comprehension, the uttermost limit of this comprehension is to behold the signs and attributes of God in the world of creation and not in the realm of Divinity.... It is evident that whatsoever man understands is a consequence of his existence, and that man is a sign of the All-Merciful: How then can the consequence of the sign encompass the Creator of the sign? That is, how can human understanding, which is a consequence of man's existence, comprehend God?... It is evident that if we attempt to conceive the reality of the Divinity, that conception would be encompassed and our mind would be that which encompasses it--and assuredly that which encompasses is greater than that which is encompassed! SAQ#37.2-9 (was SAQ.146-147,149)

All sciences, arts, inventions, crafts, and discoveries of realities proceed from this singular power. This is a power that encompasses all created things, comprehends their realities, unravels their hidden mysteries, and brings them under its control. SAQ#48.4 (was SAQ.186)

Know that there are two kinds of knowledge [irfan]: the knowledge of the essence [dhat] of a thing and the knowledge [sifat] of its attributes. The essence of each thing is known only through its attributes; otherwise, that essence is unknown and unfathomed. As our knowledge of things, even of created and limited ones, is of their attributes and not of their essence, how then can it be possible to understand in its essence the unbounded Reality of the Divinity? ...everything is known by its attributes and not by its essence: Even though the human mind encompasses all things, and all outward things are in turn encompassed by it, yet the latter are unknown with regard to their essence and can only be known with regard to their attributes. SAQ#59.3-4 (was SAQ.220)

...man is made in God's image: yet the Essence of God is incomprehensible to the human mind, for the finite understanding cannot be applied to this infinite Mystery. God contains all: He cannot be contained. That which contains is superior to that which is contained. PT#05:5 p023

...the comprehension of one thing by another is dependent upon two things. First, by encompassing.... second is by resemblance and likeness which is to say unless one thing resembles another it can in no way conceive its reality. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.31 MKT2:045-046)

The spirit of man is a circumambient power that encompasseth the realities of all things...the human spirit is an all-encompassing power that exerteth its dominion over the inner essences of all created things, uncovering the well kept mysteries of the phenomenal world. The divine spirit, however, doth unveil divine realities and universal mysteries that lie within the spiritual world. SWAB#145 p169-170

Humanity consists of the spiritual reality and that reality is penetrative in all things, and it is that reality which discovers the invisible mysteries, and through that reality all sciences, arts and inventions become known and manifest. Whatever thou beholdest of the works of man is but a faint ray of that reality. It encircles all things and comprehends all things. The human spirit is the discoverer of things, the seer of things and comprehends all things... As the spirit of man environs all things, therefore he has discovered them and brought them from the unknown world into the arena of manifestation. SW v02#14 p007 (Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 88, From a Tablet to Ella Cooper)

...that which a human being would conjure up in his mind is but the fanciful image of his human condition, it doth not encompass God's reality but rather is encompassed by it.... That Divinity which man doth imagine for himself existeth only in his mind, not in truth. Man, however, existeth both in his mind and in truth; thus man is greater than that fanciful reality which he is able to imagine.... ...that divinity which other communions and peoples have conjured up, falleth within the scope of their imagination, and not beyond it, whereas the reality of the Godhead is beyond all conceiving. SWAB#021 p047, SWAB#021 p050

...certainly the comprehender is greater than that which lieth within its grasp... SWAB#024 p053

In the animal world there is the sense of feeling, but in the human world there is an all-embracing power. In all the preceding stages the power of reason is absent, but the soul existeth and revealeth itself. The sense of feeling understandeth not the soul, whereas the reasoning power of the mind proveth the existence thereof.  In like manner the mind proveth the existence of an unseen Reality that embraceth all beings, and that existeth and revealeth itself in all stages, the essence whereof is beyond the grasp of the mind.  Forel.09-10

...hast chosen them out of all created things for this supernal grace, and hast caused them to encompass all things, to understand their inmost essence, and to disclose their mysteries... COC#578 (Abdu'l-Baha)

...the spirit encompasses the body and is aware of its sensations and powers. SAQ#40.6 (was SAQ.157)

This spirit, which in the terminology of the philosophers is called the rational soul, encompasses all things and as far as human capacity permits, discovers their realities and becomes aware of the properties and effects, the characteristics and conditions of earthly things. SAQ#55.5 (was SAQ.208)

In the creation of God, the rational soul of man encompasses and is distinguished above all other created things: It is by virtue of its nobility and distinction that it encompasses them all. SAQ#58.3 (was SAQ.217)

...how can a reality that is originated encompass that Reality which has existed from all eternity? For comprehension is the result of encompassing--the latter must take place in order that the former may occur--and the divine Essence is all-encompassing and can never be encompassed. SAQ#59.5 (was SAQ.221)

The spirit of man alone penetrates the realities of God and partakes of the divine bounties. PUP.259

That which comes within human grasp is finite, and in relation to it we are infinite because we can grasp it. Assuredly, the finite is lesser than the infinite; the infinite is ever greater. PUP.422

...knowledge of a thing requires one to encompass that thing and until a person encompasses a thing, he cannot understand its reality. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:029)

...for one thing to understand another depends on two things: First is encompassment. This means that until one thing encompasses another, it cannot understand its inner nature.... Secondly is similarity and likeness. Until one thing can be likened to something else its reality can never be imagined. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:045-046)

If it directs itself to the Center of Guidance, it acquires the power to comprehend all things and encompasses the realities of things as they are. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1)

All teaching and knowledge are enclosed in the soul of man, because his soul encompasses everything... The figure is contained in the mirror, but the mirror itself has not the power to reflect it. Polishing is necessary in order to give out a perfect reflection.... So study is polishing. (Pilgrim notes, Table Talks with Abdu'l-Baha in February 1904, pp. 5-6)

This [the mind] is the encompasser. This is the discoverer. This is the maker of rules. This is the cause of order in the world. The world of existence moves because of this. These are its qualities. (Talk given to some American Pilgrims, 1 Jan. 1920, notes taken by Mr. Fugita)

This spirit is an evident light. This spirit (of man) is the power of discovery which surrounds and comprehends everything. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 41)

...the human reality encompasses the realities of all things and discovers their true nature, their properties, and their mysteries. For instance, all the existing crafts, inventions, sciences, and branches of learning have been discovered by the human reality. At one time they were all hidden and concealed mysteries, but the reality of man gradually discovered them and brought them forth from the invisible world into the visible realm. SAQ#71.6 (was SAQ.252)

These ideal virtues or powers in man surpass or surround nature, comprehend natural laws and phenomena, penetrate the mysteries of the unknown and invisible and bring them forth into the realm of the known and visible. PUP.081

When man allows the spirit, through his soul, to enlighten his understanding, then does he contain all Creation......man, being the culmination of all that went before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains all the lower world within himself. Illumined by the spirit through the instrumentality of the soul, man's radiant intelligence makes him the crowning-point of Creation. PT#31:4-5 p096-097

The spiritual power associated with the world of nature is the power of investigation, and it is through investigation that it discovers the realities and properties of things. But the heavenly intellectual power, which is beyond nature, encompasses, knows, and comprehends all things; is aware of the divine mysteries, truths, and inner meanings; and discovers the hidden verities of the Kingdom. This divine intellectual power is confined to the holy Manifestations and the Daysprings of prophethood. A ray of this light falls upon the mirrors of the hearts of the righteous, that they may also receive, through the holy Manifestations, a share and benefit of this power. SAQ#58.4 (was SAQ.217-218)
