



Reflect upon the past events of the time of Christ, and the present events shall become clear and manifest. SWAB#147 p175

And now, consider and reflect a moment upon the waywardness of this people. What could have been the reason for such denial and avoidance on their part?... Meditate profoundly, that the secret of things unseen may be revealed unto you... KI#008

O ye that have eyes to see! The past is the mirror of the future. Gaze ye therein and be apprised thereof; perchance ye may be aided thereby to recognize the Friend and may be not the cause of His displeasure. TU.1#16




Feel impelled appeal entire body American believers to henceforth regard Nabil's soul-stirring Narrative as essential adjunct to reconstructed Teaching program, as unchallengeable textbook in their Summer Schools, as source of inspiration in all literary and artistic pursuits, as an invaluable companion in times of leisure, as indispensable preliminary to future pilgrimage to Baha'u'llah's native land, and as unfailing instrument to allay distress and resist attacks of critical, disillusioned humanity. MA.001 (21 Jun. 1932 from Shoghi Effendi)

Utilize, as extensively as you possibly can, the wealth of material which Nabil's stirring and precious narrative contains, and let it be your chief instrument wherewith you can feed the flame of enthusiasm that glows in every Baha'i heart and upon which the success of your magnificent, your incessand efforts must ultimately depend. Ruhi7.3.7 (17 Nov. 1932)     Nabil's narrative is not merely a narrative; it is a book of meditation. It does not only teach. It actually inspires and incites to action. It quickens and stimulates our dormant energies and makes us soar on a higher plane. It is thus of an invaluable help to the historian as well as to every teacher and expounder of the Cause. Ruhi7.3.7 (8 Jun. 1933)




In the days of the Prophet [Muhammad], the Jews incited the Quraysh to ask about the People of the Cave. When the question was asked, His Holiness said:" I will inform you tomorrow". According to another narration "In forty days" and according to the least narration "In three days." Because the Prophet knew that this was just a story, He did not wish to give an answer, nor did He wish to say outright that this is something that has no truth in it, but when He saw that the enemies would not stay their hand, his reply was couched as though it were truth. For certain matters are in reality just stories, but the Divine Manifestations bring them out as though it were truth and discourse upon them. For if they were to deny well-known and established matters, others would consider this evidence of their ignorance. Therefore, they bring them out as though they were truth. ('Abdu'l-Baha, Amr va Khalq 2:211)
