



Within a compass of two hundred pages it [the Kitab-i-Iqan] proclaims unequivocally the existence and oneness of a personal God, ... adumbrates and distinguishes between the three stages of Divine Revelation... GPB.139

...in Ibn 'Arabi's world-view, the self-manifestation of the Absolute is a perpetual process whose major stages - (1) the 'most holy emanation', (2) the 'holy emanation', and then (3) the appearance of concrete individual things - go on being actualized one after another like successive, recurrent waves. This ontological process repeats itself indefinitely and endlessly. At every moment, and moment after moment, the same eternal process of annihilation and re-creation is repeated. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 205)

Three degrees of revelation and the Trinity: God as transcendent, incarnate, and immanent. (A. Peacocke, in "Science and the Spiritual Quest" p. 230)




Within the Hidden Essence, the stirrings of love and the inner yearnings [mayi-i dhati] necessitated Perfect Burnishing and Clarification (and the phrase 'Perfect Burnishing' among some of the mystic knowers is the manifesting of the Absolute to Itself in the archetypal forms [a'yan] and the word 'Clarification' is the gazing by the Unconditioned Beauty upon the effulgences of Its own Beauty in the mirrors of Realities and Forms). Therefore the Essential Dispositions have, through the Divine Outpouring (fayd-i-aqdas), manifested themselves out of the station of Essence into the station of Divine Knowledge [hadrat-i 'ilm]. This is the first manifestation of the Absolute from the Hidden Treasure in the Divine Knowledge. And from this manifestation the Eternal Archetypes ('ayan thabitah) came into intellectual being. And each one, according to its inherent capacity, is distinguished from the others in the mirrors of the Divine Knowledge. And this secondary station is set up along the lines of the first stage, the stage of the Mystery of Primary Oneness (ahadiyah). And this [second] stage is known as the Secondary Unknown, Manifested Oneness (wahidiyah) and the Eternal Archetypes. And the Eternal Archetypes are the Forms of the Divine intellect, which have not inhaled the breezes of existence but have come into being as intellectual existences [within the Divine Consciousness]. And they have become distinct from each other. And this secondary stage is also called the Hidden Treasure because the Archetypes and Realities which are the objects of the knowledge [ma'lumat] of the Absolute in the mirror of Divine Knowledge, are also incorporated in the Essence [of the Absolute] in the utmost state of concealment and of simplicity and oneness. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:009-010. Cf. K. Brown's translation in his paper on Originality of Species: "Inasmuch as the movement of love and essential yearning in the Hidden Being necessitated perfect burnishing and clarification (and 'perfect burnishing' in the opinion of some of the mystic knowers is the manifestation of the True One to himself in the forms of the archetypes, and 'clarification' is the gazing of the Absolute Beauty upon the effulgences of his own beauty in the mirrors of realities and archetypes), the essential states became manifested through the most holy outpouring (fayd-i-aqdas) from the station of the Essence into the station of the divine knowledge... And this stage is expressed as the secondary unknown, conferred oneness (wahidiyah), and the station of the permanent archetypes. These permanent archetypes are the forms of the divine knowledge which have not yet inhaled the fragrance of actual existence.")

The creative movement, or, to use the technical terminology of wahdat al-wujud philosophy, the self-manifestation (tajalli) of the Absolute which is activated by the principle of love, emerges for the first time at the stage of ahadiyah and is called the 'most sacred Emanation' (Fayd-i-Aqdas). As the result of this Emanation, the stage of wahidiyah becomes established. The wahidiyah, is the ontological state at which the original absolute Oneness of the reality of existence appears with inner articulations. These inner articulations are called, in accordance with the traditional terminology of theology, divine Names and Attributes. In this sense the stage of wahidiyah is called the stage of the Names and Attributes (asma' wa-sifat). Another name of this stage is the stage of knowledge (`ilm), i.e. divine Consciousness. This appellation comes from the idea that the wahidiyah is the stage at which God becomes conscious of Himself in the form of His own essential Perfections (kamalat dhatiyah). The essential Perfections of God that are thus established in divine Consciousness with clear demarcations are called the 'eternal Archetypes' (a`yan thabitah). Structurally, each eternal Archetype is considered to be the zahir or exterior of [a] particular divine Name which is the batin or interior of the Archetype. The eternal Archetypes are to be regarded as ontological models which are eternally established in divine Consciousness and upon which the phenomenal things are produced in the empirical dimension of time and space.... The eternal Archetypes become actualized as individual phenomenal things only at the next stage, that of the concrete existent, or the world of creaturely things. And the creative or self-manifesting activity of the absolute reality of existence by which this ontological 'descent' is actualized is called the 'sacred emanation' (fayd muqaddas) in distinction from the 'most sacred emanation' by which the ahadiyah develops into wahidiyah. (Izutsu, "An Analysis of Wahdat al-Wujud", in Creation and the Timeless Order of Things, p. 92: See also Sufism and Taoism, pp. 159-192 and The Concept and Reality of Existence, p.82-83)

And were they to maintain that by 'divine Presence' is meant the 'Specific Revelation of God,' [Tajalliy-i-Khass] expressed by certain Sufis as the 'Most Holy Outpouring,' [Fayd-i-Aqdas] if this be in the Essence Itself, it is evident that it hath been eternally in the divine Knowledge. Assuming the truth of this hypothesis, 'attainment unto the divine Presence' is in this sense obviously possible to no one, inasmuch as this revelation is confined to the innermost Essence, unto which no man can attain. 'The way is barred, and all seeking rejected.' The minds of the favourites of heaven, however high they soar, can never attain this station, how much less the understanding of obscured and limited minds. KI#150 p141

The first thing to emanate [sadir] from God is that universal reality which the ancient philosophers termed the "First Intellect" ['aql-i-avval] and which the people of Baha call the "Primal Will" [mashiyyat-i-avvaliyyih]. This emanation, with respect to its action in the world of God, is not limited by either time or place and has neither beginning nor end, for in relation to God the beginning and the end are one and the same. The pre-existence of God is both essential and temporal, while the origination of the contingent world is essential but not temporal, as we have already explained another day at table. Though the First Intellect is without beginning, this does not mean that it shares in the pre-existence of God, for in relation to the existence of God the existence of that universal Reality is mere nothingness--it cannot even be said to exist, let alone to partake of the pre-existence of God. SAQ#53.5-6 (was SAQ.203)

And when that Hidden Essence revealed Its Essence to Its Essence and showed forth Its Self to Its Self, the Maiden of Love, which was veiled within the canopy of the Essence of Unity, came forth. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:012)

There is not then (apart from the Divine Reality) other than one pure receptacle (qabil); but this receptacle itself comes from the Holy Effusion (al-fayd al-aqdas) (that is to say from the principle manifestation, meta-cosmic, where the 'immutable Essences' are Divinely 'conceived' before their apparent projection in the relative existence). (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in T. Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, pp. 9-10. Burckhardt cites the Persian Sufi Nur ad-din 'Abd Rahman Jami in explanation: "The Majesty of God (al-haqq) reveals itself in two ways; one of them, which corresponds to the interior revelation, purely intelligible, which the Sufis call the most-saintly Effusion (al-fayd al-aqdas), consists in the self-revelation of God manifesting Himself from all eternity to Himself in the form of archetypes and that which they imply of characters and capacities; the second revelation, is the exterior manifestation, objective, which is called saintly Effusion (al-fayd al-muqaddas); it consists in the manifestation of God by means of the imprint of the same archetypes. This second revelation is consecutive to the first; it is the theatre where the perfections appear, which, according to the first revelation, are virtually contained in the characters and the capacities of the archetypes.")




The creative movement, or, to use the technical terminology of wahdat al-wujud philosophy, the self-manifestation (tajalli) of the Absolute which is activated by the principle of love, emerges for the first time at the stage of ahadiyah and is called the 'most sacred Emanation' (Fayd-i-Aqdas). As the result of this Emanation, the stage of wahidiyah becomes established. The wahidiyah, is the ontological state at which the original absolute Oneness of the reality of existence appears with inner articulations. These inner articulations are called, in accordance with the traditional terminology of theology, divine Names and Attributes. In this sense the stage of wahidiyah is called the stage of the Names and Attributes (asma' wa-sifat). Another name of this stage is the stage of knowledge (`ilm), i.e. divine Consciousness. This appellation comes from the idea that the wahidiyah is the stage at which God becomes conscious of Himself in the form of His own essential Perfections (kamalat dhatiyah). The essential Perfections of God that are thus established in divine Consciousness with clear demarcations are called the 'eternal Archetypes' (a`yan thabitah). Structurally, each eternal Archetype is considered to be the zahir or exterior of [a] particular divine Name which is the batin or interior of the Archetype. The eternal Archetypes are to be regarded as ontological models which are eternally established in divine Consciousness and upon which the phenomenal things are produced in the empirical dimension of time and space.... The eternal Archetypes become actualized as individual phenomenal things only at the next stage, that of the concrete existent, or the world of creaturely things. And the creative or self-manifesting activity of the absolute reality of existence by which this ontological 'descent' is actualized is called the 'sacred emanation' (fayd muqaddas) in distinction from the 'most sacred emanation' by which the ahadiyah develops into wahidiyah. (Izutsu, "An Analysis of Wahdat al-Wujud", in Creation and the Timeless Order of Things, p. 92: See also Sufism and Taoism, pp. 159-192 and The Concept and Reality of Existence, p.82-83)

And were they to say that by 'divine Presence' is meant the 'Secondary Revelation of God,' [Tajalliy-i-Thani] interpreted as the 'Holy Outpouring,' [Fayd-i-Muqaddas] this is admittedly applicable to the world of creation, that is, in the realm of the primal and original manifestation of God. Such revelation is confined to His Prophets and chosen Ones, inasmuch as none mightier than they hath come to exist in the world of being. This truth all recognize, and bear witness thereto. These Prophets and chosen Ones of God are the recipients and revealers of all the unchangeable attributes and names of God. They are the mirrors that truly and faithfully reflect the light of God. Whatsoever is applicable to them is in reality applicable to God, Himself, Who is both the Visible and the Invisible.... KI#151 p141-142

The second type of self-manifestation, the tajalli shahadah, ... refers to the phenomenon of the permanent archetypes which form the content of the Divine Consciousness coming out of the stage of potentiality into the outward world of 'reality'. It means the actualization of the archetypes in concrete forms. In distinction from the first type, this second type of self-manifestation is called by Ibn 'Arabi 'the holy emanation' (al-fayd al-muqaddas). (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 43-44)




Should they assert that the 'Revelation' of God signifieth a 'Universal Revelation,' [Tajalliy-i-'Amm] it is clear and evident that such revelation already existeth in all things. The truth of this We have already established, inasmuch as We have demonstrated that all things are the recipients and revealers of the splendours of that ideal King, and that the signs of the revelation of that Sun, the Source of all splendour, exist and are manifest in the mirrors of beings. Nay, were man to gaze with the eye of divine and spiritual discernment, he will readily recognize that nothing whatsoever can exist without the revelation of the splendour of God, the ideal King. Consider how all created things eloquently testify to the revelation of that inner Light within them.... KI#149 p139-140

Now we turn to the third and the last of the three stages distinguished above. Let us begin by quoting a short description of the third stage by Ibn 'Arabi himself. 'Following these two stages there comes the final 'unveiling'. There our own forms will be seen in it (i.e., the Absolute) in such a way that all of us are disclosed to each other in the Absolute. All of us will recognize each other and at the same time be distinguished from one another.' The meaning of this somewhat enigmatic statement may be rendered perfectly understandable in the following way. To the eye of a man who has attained this spiritual stage there arises a scene of extraordinary beauty. He sees all the existent things as they appear in the mirror of the Absolute and as they appear one in the other. All these things interflow and interpenetrate in such a way that they become transparent to one another while keeping at the same time each its own individuality. This is the experience of 'unveiling' (kashf). (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 44)
