



He must also impart spiritual education, so that minds may apprehend the metaphysical world, breathe the sanctified breaths of the Holy Spirit, and enter into relationship with the Concourse on high, and that human realities may become the manifestations of divine blessings, that perchance all the names and attributes of God may be reflected in the mirror of the human reality and the meaning of the blessed verse "Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness" may be realized. SAQ#3.11 (was SAQ.009)

The mission of the Prophets, the revelation of the Holy Books, the manifestation of the heavenly Teachers and the purpose of divine philosophy all center in the training of the human realities so that they may become clear and pure as mirrors and reflect the light and love of the Sun of Reality.  PUP.059

In another connection He saith: "O Sun-like Mirrors! Look ye upon the Sun of Truth. Ye, verily, depend upon it, were ye to perceive it. Ye are all as fishes, moving in the waters of the sea, veiling yourselves therefrom, and yet asking what it is on which ye depend." And likewise, He saith: "I complain unto thee, O Mirror of My generosity, against all the other Mirrors. All look upon Me through their own colors." ESW.160

The Word is the master key for the whole world, inasmuch as through its potency the doors of the hearts of men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked. No sooner had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour shone forth upon the mirror of love than the blessed word 'I am the Best-Beloved' was reflected therein. TB.173, Ruhi6.1.23

God sent His Prophets into the world to teach and enlighten man, to explain to him the mystery of the Power of the Holy Spirit, to enable him to reflect the light, and so in his turn, to be the source of guidance to others. PT#18:6 p061

We recognize in the manifestation of each one of them, whether outwardly or inwardly, the manifestation of none but God Himself, if ye be of those that comprehend. Every one of them is a mirror of God, reflecting naught else but His Self, His Beauty, His Might and Glory, if ye will understand. All else besides them are to be regarded as mirrors capable of reflecting the glory of these Manifestations Who are themselves the Primary Mirrors of the Divine Being, if ye be not devoid of understanding.... These Mirrors will everlastingly succeed each other, and will continue to reflect the light of the Ancient of Days. They that reflect their glory will, in like manner, continue to exist for evermore, for the Grace of God can never cease from flowing. GWB#030 p073-074, Ruhi3a.L16

The world was created through love, and all are commanded to fellowship and unity. Fix your gaze upon and call to remembrance this word which hath shone forth from the mouth of the King of Unity (ahadiyah): Veiled in My immemorial being and in the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.143. Early translation in BSC#472 p.232. Second sentence quotes AHW#03)

From among all created things He hath singled out for His special favor the pure, the gem-like reality of man, and invested it with a unique capacity of knowing Him and of reflecting the greatness of His glory. This twofold distinction conferred upon him hath cleansed away from his heart the rust of every vain desire... GWB#034 p077-078

These energies with which the Day Star of Divine bounty and Source of heavenly guidance hath endowed the reality of man lie, however, latent within him, even as the flame is hidden within the candle and the rays of light are potentially present in the lamp. Neither the candle nor the lamp can be lighted through their own unaided efforts, nor can it ever be possible for the mirror to free itself from its dross. It is clear and evident that until a fire is kindled the lamp will never be ignited, and unless the dross is blotted out from the face of the mirror it can never represent the image of the sun nor reflect its light and glory. GWB#027 p065-066, Ruhi1.3.11

The human spirit, which distinguishes man from the animal, is the rational soul, and these two terms--the human spirit [ruh-i-insani] and the rational soul [nafs-i-natiqih]--designate one and the same thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of the philosophers is called the rational soul, encompasses all things and as far as human capacity permits, discovers their realities and becomes aware of the properties and effects, the characteristics and conditions of earthly things. But the human spirit, unless it be assisted by the spirit of faith, cannot become acquainted with the divine mysteries and the heavenly realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear, bright, and polished, is still in need of light. Not until a sunbeam falls upon it can it discover the divine mysteries. As for the mind ['aql], it is the power of the human spirit. The spirit is as the lamp, and the mind as the light that shines from it. The spirit is as the tree, and the mind as the fruit. The mind is the perfection of the spirit and a necessary attribute thereof, even as the rays of the sun are an essential requirement of the sun itself. SAQ#55.5-6 (was SAQ.208-209)

Concerning the unity of soul (nafs) and spirit (ruh): when the soul is affected by the breath of the Holy Spirit, it will be united with the spirit, like the unity of the mirror and the sun. Its brilliant luminosity will reflect in this pure mirror. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:196)

The true self of man referred to in the above mentioned passage [GWB #027?] is not a spirit or entity higher or greater than the soul. Man's own true self and his soul are the same thing; the terms used indicate the same reality and hence are interchangeable. Also the term 'Essence of My Light' which in the Hidden Words, Baha'u'llah says, 'God has placed within us', is the same reality as the soul. All these terms are different ways of referring to the one great reality within man, that divine spark of Reality which is the secret of his superiority over the rest of creation. That Divine Spark of Reality is in the nature of a reflection of the Divine Attributes in man, just as the mirror reflects the light of the sun. (25 May 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Wert thou to cleanse the mirror of thy heart from the dust of malice, thou wouldst apprehend the meaning of the symbolic terms revealed by the all-embracing Word of God made manifest in every Dispensation, and wouldst discover the mysteries of divine knowledge. KI#075 p068

Upon the inmost reality of each and every created thing He hath shed the light of one of His names, and made it a recipient of the glory of one of His attributes. Upon the reality of man, however, He hath focused the radiance of all of His names and attributes, and made it a mirror of His own Self. Alone of all created things man hath been singled out for so great a favor, so enduring a bounty. GWB#027 p065, Ruhi1.3.10

From the exalted source, and out of the essence of His favor and bounty He hath entrusted every created thing with a sign of His knowledge, so that none of His creatures may be deprived of its share in expressing, each according to its capacity and rank, this knowledge. This sign is the mirror of His beauty in the world of creation. The greater the effort exerted for the refinement of this sublime mirror, the more faithfully will it be made to reflect the glory of the names and attributes of God, and reveal the wonders of His signs and knowledge. GWB#124 p262     "There is no contradiction between Gleanings p. 66 [GWB#027 p066] and p. 262. In one place He says the mirror will never be free from dross, in the other He says it will be 'so cleansed as to be able' etc. It is a relative thing; perfection will never be reached, but great, and ever greater, progress can be made." LG#387 (8 Jan. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Rejoice in the gladness of thine heart, that thou mayest be worthy to meet Me and to mirror forth My beauty. AHW#36, Ruhi3a.L2

...the sun beam falls alike upon the dust and the mirror, yet differ they in reflection even as doth the star from the earth:  nay, immeasurable is the difference! PHW#25

A pure heart is as a mirror; cleanse it with the burnish of love and severance from all save God, that the true sun may shine therein and the eternal morning dawn. CDB#2.43 (was SV.21)

Its [the Word of God's] appearance in every mirror is conditioned by the color of the mirror. For instance, when its light is cast upon the mirrors of the hearts of the wise, it bringeth forth wisdom. In like manner when it manifesteth itself in the mirrors of the hearts of craftsmen, it unfoldeth new and unique arts, and when reflected in the hearts of those that apprehend the truth it revealeth wondrous tokens of true knowledge and discloseth the verities of God's utterance. (Baha'u'llah, in compilation on professions)

So intensely hath the glory of Divine Unity penetrated souls and hearts that all are even as a single heart, a single soul. Wherefore reflections of the spirit and impressions of the Divine are now mirrored clear and sharp in the deep heart's core. SWAB#007 p019

The Apostles were even as Letters, and Christ was the essence of the Word Itself.... the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are continually descending, and the power of the Word will exert such an influence that the letter shall become the mirror in which the splendid Sun - the Word itself - will be reflected.... SWAB#029 p060

...the reality of man is an all-encompassing and universal reality which is the seat of the revelation of all the divine perfections. That is, a sign of each one of the names, attributes, and perfections that we ascribe to God exists in man.... Thus, the divinity of God, which is the totality of all perfections, reveals itself in the reality of man--that is, the divine Essence is the sum total of all perfections, and from this station it casts a ray of its splendour upon the human reality. In other words, the Sun of Truth is reflected in this mirror. Thus man is a perfect mirror facing the Sun of Truth and is the seat of its reflection. The splendour of all the divine perfections is manifest in the reality of man, and it is for this reason that he is the vicegerent and apostle of God. SAQ#50.3-4 (was SAQ.196)

...humanity is the dawning of light, which is to say that it is the beginning of the Day of Oneness and Guidance and the end of the night of plurality and loss. It is the mirror with the disposition to reflect all of the conflicting and opposing Names and is the source of the revelation of all of the Attributes of Divinity and Lordship.... However although he is the dawning-place of the manifestation of all the Names and Attributes, one of the Divine Names is manifested most strongly and appears most intensely [in each person]. Thus his being originates from this Name and returns to it. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:041-042)

The light of truth has heretofore been seen dimly through variegated glasses, but now the splendors of Divinity shall be visible through the translucent mirrors of pure hearts and spirits. PUP.011

The most important thing is to polish the mirrors of hearts in order that they may become illumined and receptive of the divine light.... Therefore, our duty lies in seeking to polish the mirrors of our hearts in order that we shall become reflectors of that light and recipients of the divine bounties which may be fully revealed through them. PUP.014, Ruhi7.1.2

We must endeavor to increase our capacity daily, to strengthen and enlarge our capabilities for receiving them, to become as perfect mirrors.  The more polished and clean the mirror, the more effulgent is its reflection of the lights of the Sun of Truth. PUP.024

We pray that all of us may become recipients of its bestowals, that we may be illumined by the lights of heaven, ... as mirrors reflecting the light of the sun. PUP.313

The spirit of man must acquire its bounties from the Kingdom of God in order that it may become the mirror and manifestation of lights and the dawning point of divine traces, because the human reality is like the soil.... only the reality of man can become the mirror wherein the lights of God are revealed. PUP.330

But if you turn the mirror of your spirits heavenwards, the heavenly constellations and the rays of the Sun of Reality will be reflected in your hearts, and the virtues of the Kingdom will be obtained.... May we indeed become mirrors reflecting the heavenly realities, and may we become so pure as to reflect the stars of heaven. PT#54:18-9 p176

Souls are like unto mirrors, and the bounty of God is like unto the sun.  When the mirrors pass beyond all coloring and attain purity and polish, and are confronted with the sun, they will reflect in full perfection its light and glory.  In this condition one should not consider the mirror, but the power of the light of the sun, which hath penetrated the mirror, making it a reflector of the heavenly glory. TAB.019

If he attains unto his heritage through divine wisdom, then he becomes a clear mirror in which the beauty of God is reflected; he has eternal life and becomes a participator of the sun of truth. ADP.111

This station is the greatest of all stations, for this connection of the spirit of man with God is like unto a mirror and the sun of reality is reflected in it.  Thus it becomes the collective center of all the virtues; its emanation is the bestowal of the king of bestowers; its radiations are the manifold splendors of the infinite luminary; its sanctity is from the highest summit of divine essence.  This station is the station of heavenly inspiration and is called the station of the divine grace.  It signifies that the rays of the sun of reality are resplendent in the mirror and the attributes of the sun of reality are reflected therein. ADP.166

From the throne of Glory of the Creator His Light shines on the Soul emanated from him (Soul of the world, Logos) and is then further reflected on the individual soul, so that it too would reflect it and look back in longing to its divine origin in Him! (Fallscheer notes, p.52)

The universe, the macrocosm, is captured by our spirit, the microcosm, as in a mirror. We feel, we comprehend, we analyze and construct this mirror-image during a whole human life-time.... as the whole universe is reflected in our spirit, we perceive from this that our spirit (ruh) is a reflection of the Creative Spirit and thus partakes of the infinity of space and boundless eternity with its Creator, that means: the human spirit, the weak reflection of the Divine Spirit, the Creative Spirit, has part in the immortality of the Creator. (Fallscheer notes, p.37)

The heart of man is like a mirror, on which dust collects continuously. To achieve a pure heart, man continuously has to pray to God to purify it. (Fallscheer notes, p.71)

If the mirror of his life is polished from the dross of all desires, the heavenly pictures and star-like images of the kingdom of God will be fully reflected therein. Then will he be given power to translate these celestial forms into his daily life and the lives of many thousands. SW v08#08 p045

Question: What is meant by the Mirror for Divine Reflection? 'Abdu'l-Baha: 'Mirror' is the whole body, the brain in particular. SW v14#02 p037 (questions asked at Ramleh, May 1911)

Truth is like the Light which is always the same. The souls of believers are as mirrors which reflect the Light. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of 'Akka, p.6)

All beings other than Man only reflect, each one of them, singly, one aspect of the Absolute. It is only when put together in the form of the universe that they constitute a big whole corresponding to the Consciousness itself of the Absolute. In this sense, the universe, certainly, is 'one', but, since the universe lacks consciousness, it does not constitute real unity. Man, on the contrary, not only synthesizes all the forms of the Divine self-manifestation which are scattered over the world of Being, but also is conscious of this whole. This is why a true comprehensive unity is established by Man, corresponding to the Unity of the Absolute. Man is in this sense the Imago Dei. And because of this peculiarity, Man can be ... the 'vicegerent' of God on the earth. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 222)

When man's soul is rarified and cleansed, spiritual links are established, and from these bonds sensations felt by the heart are produced. The human heart resembleth a mirror. When this is purified human hearts are attuned and reflect one another, and thus spiritual emotions are generated. SWAB#070 p108, SW v14#07 p210

...the rational faculty is a manifestation of the power of the soul. The soul is the mirror of reflection. LG#1722 (26 Sep. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

All teaching and knowledge are enclosed in the soul of man, because his soul encompasses everything... The figure is contained in the mirror, but the mirror itself has not the power to reflect it. Polishing is necessary in order to give out a perfect reflection.... So study is polishing. (Pilgrim notes, Table Talks with Abdu'l-Baha in February 1904, pp. 5-6)




How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine in an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that surge within a drop! To a supreme degree is this true of man, who, among all created things, hath been invested with the robe of such gifts, and hath been singled out for the glory of such distinction. For in him are potentially revealed all the attributes and names of God to a degree that no other created being hath excelled or surpassed. All these names and attributes are applicable to him. Even as He hath said: 'Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery.' ... Even as He hath revealed: 'We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within themselves.' KI#107 p101, GWB#090 p177-178, Ruhi3a.L15 (1st sentence)

...in the tradition of Kumayl it is written: 'Behold, a light hath shone forth out of the Morn of eternity, and lo! its waves have penetrated the inmost reality of all men.' Man, the noblest and most perfect of all created things, excelleth them all in the intensity of this revelation, and is a fuller expression of its glory. KI#109 p102-103, GWB#090 p178-179

Led by the light of unfailing guidance, and invested with supreme sovereignty, They are commissioned to use the inspiration of Their words, the effusions of Their infallible grace and the sanctifying breeze of Their Revelation for the cleansing of every longing heart and receptive spirit from the dross and dust of earthly cares and limitations. Then, and only then, will the Trust of God, latent in the reality of man, emerge, as resplendent as the rising Orb of Divine Revelation, from behind the veil of concealment, and implant the ensign of its revealed glory upon the summits of men's hearts. GWB#027 p067

I have breathed within thee a breath of My own Spirit, that thou mayest be My lover. Why hast thou forsaken Me and sought a beloved other than Me? AHW#19

My grace to thee is plenteous, it cannot be veiled. My love has made in thee its home, it cannot be concealed. AHW#20

My love is in thee, know it, that thou mayest find Me near unto thee. AHW#10

Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase thyself? Out of the essence of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment from anyone beside Me? Out of the clay of love I molded thee, how dost thou busy thyself with another? Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting. AHW#13, Ruhi6.3.17, Ruhi5.2.5         "As to the passage No. 13 of the Arabic Hidden Words: that which Baha'u'llah declares we can find abiding within us is the power of the Divine Spirit, the reflection of the light of His Revelation. This reflection of the Divine Spirit however, can in no wise be compared to the Revelation which God discloses to His Prophets and Messengers. The similarity in the terminology should not confuse this distinction which is most fundamental." LG#1601 (7 Dec. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)         "Thou hast asked about the statement in the Hidden Words [AHW#13]... This is the statement to which His Holiness, the Christ, referred to His Apostles in the Gospel, saying: 'The Father is in the Son and the Son is in you.' It is evident that, when hearts are purified and through divine education and heavenly teachings each becomes a manifestor of infinite bounty, it is like a clear mirror, and the Sun of Truth will be reflected in it with might, power and omnipotence, to such an extent that whatever is brought before it is ignited and consumed. This is a brief interpretation because of lack of time. Therefore, do thou reflect and ponder over it, so that the doors of significance may be opened before thine eyes." LG#1635 ('Abdu'l-Baha, from a Tablet to Thornton Chase)

The world was created through love, and all are commanded to fellowship and unity. Fix your gaze upon and call to remembrance this word which hath shone forth from the mouth of the King of Unity (ahadiyah): Veiled in My immemorial being and in the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.143. Early translation in BSC#472 p.232. Second sentence quotes AHW#03)

His reason for shouldering this heavy load and enduring all this anguish ... was to lead every soul on earth to concord, to fellow-feeling, to oneness; to make known amongst all peoples the sign of the singleness of God, so that at last the primal oneness deposited at the heart of all created things would bear its destined fruit, and the splendour of 'No difference canst thou see in the creation of the God of Mercy,' would cast abroad its rays. SWAB#207 p263

The true self of man referred to in the above mentioned passage [GWB #027?] is not a spirit or entity higher or greater than the soul. Man's own true self and his soul are the same thing; the terms used indicate the same reality and hence are interchangeable. Also the term 'Essence of My Light' which in the Hidden Words, Baha'u'llah says, 'God has placed within us', is the same reality as the soul. All these terms are different ways of referring to the one great reality within man, that divine spark of Reality which is the secret of his superiority over the rest of creation. That Divine Spark of Reality is in the nature of a reflection of the Divine Attributes in man, just as the mirror reflects the light of the sun. (25 May 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Consider, moreover, how frequently doth man become forgetful of his own self, whilst God remaineth, through His all-encompassing knowledge, aware of His creature, and continueth to shed upon him the manifest radiance of His glory. It is evident, therefore, that, in such circumstances, He is closer to him than his own self. He will, indeed, so remain for ever, for, whereas the one true God knoweth all things, perceiveth all things, and comprehendeth all things, mortal man is prone to err, and is ignorant of the mysteries that lie enfolded within him.... GWB#093 p186

This most great, this fathomless and surging Ocean is near, astonishingly near, unto you. Behold it is closer to you than your life-vein! [cf. Qur'an 50:16] Swift as the twinkling of an eye ye can, if ye but wish it, reach and partake of this imperishable favor, this God-given grace, this incorruptible gift, this most potent and unspeakably glorious bounty. O My servants! Could ye apprehend with what wonders of My munificence and bounty I have willed to entrust your souls, ye would, of a truth, rid yourselves of attachment to all created things, and would gain a true knowledge of your own selves - a knowledge which is the same as the comprehension of Mine own Being. Ye would find yourselves independent of all else but Me, and would perceive, with your inner and outer eye, and as manifest as the revelation of My effulgent Name, the seas of My loving-kindness and bounty moving within you. GWB#153 p326-327, Ruhi2.1.3, Ruhi5.2.5

Thou art My lamp and My light is in thee.  Get thou from it thy radiance and seek none other than Me.  For I have created thee rich and have bountifully shed My favor upon thee. AHW#11

With the hands of power I made thee and with the fingers of strength I created thee; and within thee have I placed the essence of My light. Be thou content with it and seek naught else, for My work is perfect and My command is binding. Question it not, nor have a doubt thereof. AHW#12

...the references that have been made to the degrees of mystic knowledge pertain to the knowledge of the effulgences of that Sun of Truth as it becometh reflected in various mirrors. And the effulgence of that light is present within the hearts, yet it is hidden beneath the veils of selfish desires and earthly attachments, even as a candle within a lantern of iron, and only when the cover is lifted doth the light of the candle shine out. In like manner, when thou dost strip the veils of illusion from the face of thine heart, the lights of Oneness will be made manifest. CDB#2.47-48 (was SV.23-24)

In thine outward appearance thou tellest of the appearance of power in the realms of divine creation; in thine inward being thou revealest the hidden mysteries which are the divine trust deposited within thee. CDB#2.55 (was SV.27)

O friend, the heart is the dwelling-place of eternal mysteries: Make it not the home of fleeting fancies. Waste not the treasure of thy precious life occupied with this swiftly passing world. Thou comest from the world of holiness: Bind not thine heart to the earth. Thou art a dweller in the court of reunion: Choose not the homeland of the dust. CDB#2.73 (was SV.35)

Therefore He hath sent forth His Messengers ... that everyone may become aware of the trust of God which is latent in the reality of every soul. TB.161

...however much detached minds and pure souls seek to penetrate the worlds of Inner Knowledge, their understanding will never penetrate more than that station which is a sign pointing towards the Monarch of Primal Oneness which He has placed as a trust within the reality of man. And however much they may fly with triumphant wings in the limitless space of what is knowable and observable, they will read naught but the letters of the book of their own selves.... For example, consider a circle; however much a compass moves, it can only move around the point which is the centre of the circle. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:048)

I plunged into the angelic sea (malakut) and the veils of divinity (lahut), until I reached the Throne, and lo, it was vacant. Therefore, I threw myself upon it and said: 'Lord, where will I find You?' and behold, I was I, yes I was I. Then I returned to what I was seeking, and it was no other than I. (al-Bistami, quoted in Fakhry's Short Introduction, p. 76)

How then can you see the sort of beauty a good soul has? Go back into yourself and look.... You must become first all godlike and all beautiful if you intend to see God and beauty. Plotinus, Enn.I.6.9

Even as He hath revealed: 'We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within themselves.' Again He saith: 'And also in your own selves: will ye not, then, behold the signs of God?' And yet again He revealeth: 'And be ye not like those who forget God, and whom He hath therefore caused to forget their own selves.' In this connection, He Who is the eternal King ... hath spoken: 'He hath known God who hath known himself.' KI#107 p102, GWB#090 p178

God grant that all men may turn unto the treasuries latent within their own beings. TB.072

And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation: Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you. Luke 17:20-21

The Self, who can be realized by the pure in heart, who is life, light, truth, space, who gives rise to all works, all desires, all odours, all tastes, who is beyond words, who is joy abiding--this is the Self dwelling in my heart. (Chandogya Upanishad, ch. III, 14.2-3) "That infinite source of the whole universe, the self of all that is, the ocean of pure consciousness -- that is truth. That is the unbounded self -- that thou art." Chhandogya Upanishad

That life, however, which is mentioned in the Books of the Prophets and the Chosen Ones of God is the life of knowledge; that is to say, the servant's recognition of the sign of the splendours wherewith He Who is the Source of all splendour hath Himself invested him, and his certitude of attaining unto the presence of God through the Manifestations of His Cause. This is that blessed and everlasting life that perisheth not: whosoever is quickened thereby shall never die, but will endure as long as His Lord and Creator will endure. GDM#064 p047-048

O soul, most beautiful of creatures, who ardently longs to know the place where your Beloved is that you may seek him and be united to him. You yourself are the tabernacle where he dwells, the secret room where he is hidden. Rejoice and exult, then, because all your good and all your hope is so near as to be within you. To speak more accurately you cannot be without him for 'the Kingdom of God is within you'. (St. John of the Cross, The Spiritual Canticle, St. 1)

The Lord lives in the heart of every creature. He turns them round and round upon the wheel of His Maya. Take refuge utterly in Him. By His grace you will find supreme peace, and the state which is beyond all change. Bhagavad Gita 18:61-62         I am the nucleus of every creature, Arjuna; for without Me nothing can exist, neither animate nor inanimate.... Wherever you find strength, or beauty, or spiritual power, you may be sure that these have sprung from a spark of My essence. Bhagavad Gita 10:39-41

We created man: and we know what his soul whispereth to him, and we are closet to him than his neck-vein. Qur'an 50:15




The descent of the Holy Spirit is not like the entrance of air into the human body. It is a metaphor and an analogy rather than a literal image or account. That which is intended is like the descent of the sun into a mirror, that is, when its splendour is reflected therein. SAQ#24.2 (was SAQ.106)

The descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Apostles means that that glorious and divine grace cast its light and splendour upon their realities. For otherwise egress and regress, descent and inherence are characteristics of bodies and not of spirits--that is, egress and inherence pertain only to sensible realities, not to intelligible subtleties; and intelligible realities, such as reason, love, knowledge, imagination, and thought, do not enter, exit, or inhere, but rather denote relationships. For example, knowledge, which is a form acquired by the mind, is an intelligible thing, and to speak of entering into the mind or exiting from it is absurd. Rather, it is a relationship of acquisition, even as images are reflected in a mirror. Thus, as it is evident and established that intelligible realities do not enter or inhere, it follows that it is in no wise possible for the Holy Spirit to ascend, descend, enter, exit, commingle, or inhere. At most it appears as the sun appears in a mirror. SAQ#25.3-5 (was SAQ.108)

This spiritual nature, which has come to exist through the grace of the divine Reality, is the sum of all perfections and proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit. It is the divine perfections; it is light, spirituality, guidance, exaltation, high-mindedness, justice, love, generosity, kindness to all, and charitable deeds: It is life upon life. This spiritual nature is an effulgence of the splendours of the Sun of Truth. SAQ#29.3 (was SAQ.118)

Therefore, a spirit has emanated from the reality of Divinity, and its effulgences have become visible in human entities or realities.... The more the world of humanity develops, the more the effulgences or emanations of Divinity will become revealed, just as the stone, when it becomes polished and pure as a mirror, will reflect in fuller degree the glory and splendor of the sun. PUP.059

...that which Baha'u'llah declares we can find abiding within us is the power of the Divine Spirit, the reflection of the light of His Revelation. This reflection of the Divine Spirit, however, can in no way be compared to the Revelation which God discloses to His Prophets and Messengers. LG#1601 (7 Dec. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




"Earth and heaven cannot contain Me; what can alone contain Me is the heart of him that believeth in Me." [From a Hadith] CDB#2.43 (was SV.21-22)

By the righteousness of God! It is not Our wish to lay hands on your kingdoms. Our mission is to seize and possess the hearts of men. Upon them the eyes of Baha are fastened. KA#083, GWB#105 p212

That the heart (qalb) is the throne, in which the Revelation of God the All-Merciful is centered, is attested by the holy utterances which We have formerly revealed. Among them is this saying: 'Earth and heaven cannot contain Me; what can alone contain Me is the heart of him that believeth in Me, and is faithful to My Cause.' GWB#093 p186

The one true God, exalted be His glory, hath ever regarded, and will continue to regard, the hearts of men as His own, His exclusive possession. GWB#102 p206

That which He hath reserved for Himself are the cities of men's hearts; and of these the loved ones of Him Who is the Sovereign Truth are, in this Day, as the keys. Please God they may, one and all, be enabled to unlock, through the power of the Most Great Name, the gates of these cities. GWB#115 p241, Ruhi6.1.14

Out of the whole world He hath chosen for Himself the hearts of men - hearts which the hosts of revelation and of utterance can subdue. GWB#128 p279

The things He hath reserved for Himself are the cities of men's hearts, that He may cleanse them from all earthly defilements, and enable them to draw nigh unto the hallowed Spot which the hands of the infidel can never profane. Open, O people, the city of the human heart with the key of your utterance. GWB#139 p304, Ruhi2.2.7, Ruhi6.1.14

All that is in heaven and earth I have ordained for thee, except the human heart, which I have made the habitation of My beauty and glory; yet thou didst give My home and dwelling to another than Me; and whenever the manifestation of My holiness sought His own abode, a stranger found He there, and, homeless, hastened unto the sanctuary of the Beloved. PHW#27

By 'earth' is intended the earth of men's hearts. This, verily, is vaster than both earth and heaven, for the heart is the Most Great Throne, the seat of the effulgence of thy Lord.... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Commentary on the Surih of the Sun)

He hath chosen out of the whole world the hearts of His servants, and made them each a seat for the revelation of His glory. Wherefore, sanctify them from every defilement, that the things for which they were created may be engraven upon them. GWB#136 p297

The heart is a divine trust; cleanse it from the stain of self-love, adorn it with the coronal of pure intent, until the sacred honor, the abiding greatness of this illustrious nation may shine out like the true morning in an auspicious heaven. SDC.116

Verily hath God created within thyself all that He hath fashioned in creation in His likeness, that thou mayest not be veiled from any effulgence. Verily God hath generated within thy being the entirety of His manifestations. He hath ordained that His home be the heart of His servant... (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.059)




As to the human spirit [ruh], its likeness is that of a glass and the bounty of the sun. That is, the body of man, which is composed of the elements, is the most perfect form of composition and combination, the soundest arrangement, the noblest composition, and the most perfect of all existing things. It grows and develops through the animal spirit. This perfect body can be compared to a mirror, and the human spirit to the sun: If the glass is shattered or the mirror destroyed, no harm befalls the outpouring grace of the sun, which continues unabated. SAQ#36.3 (was SAQ.143)

As to the human spirit, its likeness is that of a glass and the bounty of the sun. That is, the body of man, which is composed of the elements, is the most perfect form of composition and combination, the soundest arrangement, the noblest composition, and the most perfect of all existing things. It grows and develops through the animal spirit. This perfect body can be compared to a mirror, and the human spirit to the sun.... SAQ#36.3 (was SAQ.144)

The soul of man should be likened unto this sun, and all things on earth should be regarded as his body.... The soul of man is the sun by which his body is illumined, and from which it draweth its sustenance, and should be so regarded. GWB#080 p154, GWB#080 p155

We have already explained that the spirit of man is not contained within the body, for it is freed and sanctified from egress and regress, which are among the properties of material bodies. Rather, the connection of the spirit with the body is like that of the sun with the mirror. SAQ#61.6 (was SAQ.229)

...the rational soul, or the human spirit, does not subsist through this body by inherence--that is to say, it does not enter it; for inherence and entrance are characteristics of bodies, and the rational soul is sanctified above this. It never entered this body to begin with, that it should require, upon leaving it, some other abode. No, the connection of the spirit with the body is even as the connection of this lamp with a mirror. If the mirror is polished and perfected, the light of the lamp appears therein, and if the mirror is broken or covered with dust, the light remains concealed. SAQ#66.3 (was SAQ.239)

...were you to search throughout the human body, you would be unable to find a specific place or location for the spirit. The spirit is absolutely placeless and immaterial, but it has a connection with the body, even as the sun has a connection with this mirror: The sun occupies no place within the mirror, but it has a connection with it. SAQ#67.5 (was SAQ.242)

They conceive of the body as a vessel and the spirit as its contents, like water and cup, with the water being emptied from one cup and poured into another. This is indeed a childish notion: They do not reflect deeply enough to realize that the spirit is an entirely incorporeal thing, that it does not enter or exit, and that, at most, it is connected with the body as the sun is with the mirror. SAQ#81.11 (was SAQ.287)

the continuity and influence of the human reality does not depend upon the physical instrumentality; nay, rather, the physical body is an instrument over which the human spirit spreads a luminosity. It is like unto the sun which, shining upon the mirror, causes its brilliancy... (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, pp. 87-89)

He was then asked about the connection between the soul and the body. He replied, It has the same connection as the sun has with the mirror. Death consists of the severance of this connection. (Mahmud's Diary, 4 Jul. 1912, p. 157-8; also SW v14#02 p037)

...the human spirit does not enter into the physical body, nay, rather, it has some 'attachment' (to it). This 'attachment' is like that of the mirror and the sun. SW v14#02 p037 (Tablet to Madame D'Astre of Paris)

There is a connection between the spirit and man, like the connection which exists between man and his reflection in the mirror. You can see him in the mirror though he is not in it. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 37)

...the ensouled body is illuminated by soul... Plotinus, Enn.IV.3.22

When man dies, his relation with the body ceases.... The body is the temporary mirror. ADP.128

In regard to the phenomenon of death, know that the soul of man is sanctified and independent from material existence. It hath no need to enter or exit, ascend or descend, penetrate or commingle, for these are the properties of bodies, not of souls. Therefore, the soul of man does not enter into this corporeal frame, but rather hath a connection to it. Death consisteth of the severing of that connection. That connection resembleth the relationship between a mirror and the sun. The sun does not enter into or depart from the mirror, and does not incarnate itself therein, but hath a connection to the mirror and is reflected within it. When that connection becometh severed, the mirror is deprived of its brilliance, loveliness, and charm. For this reason, the statement "the soul hath departed from the body" is metaphorical and not factual. Furthermore, the connection between the soul and the body may be severed gradually or it may be severed all at once. AvK1.268, MKT3:174; PC00505




Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase thyself? Out of the essence of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment from anyone beside Me? Out of the clay of love I molded thee, how dost thou busy thyself with another? Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting. AHW#13, Ruhi6.3.17, Ruhi5.2.5         "As to the passage No. 13 of the Arabic Hidden Words: that which Baha'u'llah declares we can find abiding within us is the power of the Divine Spirit, the reflection of the light of His Revelation. This reflection of the Divine Spirit however, can in no wise be compared to the Revelation which God discloses to His Prophets and Messengers. The similarity in the terminology should not confuse this distinction which is most fundamental." LG#1601 (7 Dec. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)         "Thou hast asked about the statement in the Hidden Words [AHW#13]... This is the statement to which His Holiness, the Christ, referred to His Apostles in the Gospel, saying: 'The Father is in the Son and the Son is in you.' It is evident that, when hearts are purified and through divine education and heavenly teachings each becomes a manifestor of infinite bounty, it is like a clear mirror, and the Sun of Truth will be reflected in it with might, power and omnipotence, to such an extent that whatever is brought before it is ignited and consumed. This is a brief interpretation because of lack of time. Therefore, do thou reflect and ponder over it, so that the doors of significance may be opened before thine eyes." LG#1635 ('Abdu'l-Baha, from a Tablet to Thornton Chase)
