



Real love is the love which exists between God and His servants, the love which binds together holy souls.  This is the love of the spiritual world, not the love of physical bodies and organisms....  Consider to what extent the love of God makes itself manifest.  Among the signs of His love which appear in the world are the dawning points of His Manifestations.  What an infinite degree of love is reflected by the divine Manifestations toward mankind!  PUP.256




It behooveth us, therefore, to make the utmost endeavour, that, by God's invisible assistance, these dark veils, these clouds of Heaven-sent trials, may not hinder us from beholding the beauty of His shining Countenance, and that we may recognize Him only by His own Self. KI#082 p075, GWB#013 p027

Had you come to this blessed spot in the days of the manifestation of that most resplendent Light, entered the court of His presence, and beheld His luminous countenance, you would have recognized that His utterance and His beauty were in want of no further proof. How numerous the souls who, upon attaining His presence, became at once confirmed believers, dispensing with any further proof! SAQ#10.1 (was SAQ.036)

...man can never hope to attain unto the knowledge of the All-Glorious, can never quaff from the stream of divine knowledge and wisdom, can never enter the abode of immortality, nor partake of the cup of divine nearness and favor, unless and until he ceases to regard the words and deeds of mortal men as a standard for the true understanding and recognition of God and His Prophets. KI#002 p003-004

Know thou that, verily, the 'Manifestation' is not composed of the four elements (earth, fire, air and water), nay, rather, He is the Mystery of Oneness, of the Ancient Identity, the Eternal Essence and the Unknowable Reality, and that, verily, He can never be known by any other save Himself. Therefore, one can never realize that He hath appeared from any of the four elements, or from any of the substances mentioned by the tongues of philosophers, or from any of the four expressions of nature, such as heat, cold, dry and wet... BSC#375 p.204-205 (From an early translation of the Lawhu'z-Zuhur, in La'ali'u'l-Hikmat, 1:56)

He Who is everlastingly hidden from the eyes of men can never be known except through His Manifestation, and His Manifestation can adduce no greater proof of the truth of His Mission than the proof of His own Person. GWB#020 p049

The first and foremost testimony establishing His truth is His own Self. Next to this testimony is His Revelation. For whoso faileth to recognize either the one or the other He hath established the words He hath revealed as proof of His reality and truth. This is, verily, an evidence of His tender mercy unto men. He hath endowed every soul with the capacity to recognize the signs of God. GWB#052 p105-106

Immeasurably high are the Prophets of God exalted above the comprehension of men, who can never know them except by their own Selves. KI#032 p035

Meditate diligently upon the Cause of thy Lord. Strive to know Him through His own Self and not through others. For no one else besides Him can ever profit thee. GWB#076 p148

If it be your wish, O people, to know God and to discover the greatness of His might, look, then, upon Me with Mine own eyes, and not with the eyes of any one besides Me. Ye will, otherwise, be never capable of recognizing Me, though ye ponder My Cause as long as My Kingdom endureth, and meditate upon all created things throughout the eternity of God, the Sovereign Lord of all, the Omnipotent, the Ever-Abiding, the All-Wise. GWB#127 p272-273

The first and foremost testimony establishing His truth is His own Self. GWB#052 p105-106

The Manifestation of God is proof of Himself, just as the sun is its own greatest and sufficient proof. The sun says, 'I am proof.' In the ancient times the women of Egypt thought Joseph was an angel. No proof was necessary but his own beauty and excellence. The proof was himself. People of sight and perception see at a glance what the blind and incapable can never see. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of Akka, pp. 32,34)




Among the signs of His love which appear in the world are the dawning points of His Manifestations... This is a sign of the love of God, a ray of the Sun of Reality.... Were it not for the love of God, the divine Prophets would not have been sent to the world. PUP.257




Thou hast breathed Thy Breath into Me, and divorced Me from Mine own Self. Thou didst, subsequently, decree that no more than a faint reflection, a mere emblem of Thy Reality within Me be left among the perverse and envious. GWB#040 p090




Consider the past. How many, both high and low, have, at all times, yearningly awaited the advent of the Manifestations of God.... And whensoever the portals of grace did open, .. they all denied Him, and turned away from His face--the face of God Himself. KI#003 p004, GWB#013 p017

Behold how they preceded all the peoples of the earth in attaining unto His [Muhammad's] holy Presence - the Presence of God Himself... KI#170 p159-160

Were any of the all-embracing Manifestations of God to declare: "I am God," He, verily, speaketh the truth, and no doubt attacheth thereto. For it hath been repeatedly demonstrated that through their Revelation, their attributes and names, the Revelation of God, His name and His attributes, are made manifest in the world.... KI#196 p178, GWB#022 p054

By virtue of this station they have claimed for themselves the Voice of Divinity and the like, whilst by virtue of their station of Messengership, they have declared themselves the Messengers of God. In every instance they have voiced an utterance that would conform to the requirements of the occasion, and have ascribed all these declarations to Themselves... KI#198 p181, GWB#022 p055-056

These Countenances are the recipients of the Divine Command, and the day-springs of His Revelation. This Revelation is exalted above the veils of plurality and the exigencies of number. Thus He saith: "Our Cause is but one." Inasmuch as the Cause is one and the same, the Exponents thereof also must needs be one and the same.... It is clear and evident to thee that all the Prophets are the Temples of the Cause of God, Who have appeared clothed in divers attire. If thou wilt observe with discriminating eyes, thou wilt behold them all abiding in the same tabernacle, soaring in the same heaven, seated upon the same throne, uttering the same speech, and proclaiming the same Faith. Such is the unity of those Essences of being, those Luminaries of infinite and immeasurable splendour. KI#161-162 p152-154, GWB#022 p051-052, WOB.115, WOB.058

The third station is that of divine grace, the revelation of the beauty of the Ancient of Days and the effulgence of the lights of the ever-living and omnipotent Lord. The individual realities of the holy Manifestations cannot be separated from divine grace and revelation any more than the corporeal mass of the sun can be separated from its light. SAQ#39.4 (was SAQ.154-155)

The divinity attributed to so great a Being and the complete incarnation of the names and attributes of God in so exalted a Person should, under no circumstances, be misconceived or misinterpreted. The human temple that has been made the vehicle of so overpowering a Revelation must, if we be faithful to the tenets of our Faith, ever remain entirely distinguished from that 'innermost Spirit of Spirits' and 'eternal Essence of Essences' - that invisible yet rational God Who, however much we extol the divinity of His Manifestations on earth, can in no wise incarnate His infinite, His unknowable, His incorruptible and all-embracing Reality in the concrete and limited frame of a mortal being.  So crude and fantastic a theory of Divine incarnation is as removed from, and incompatible with, the essentials of Baha'i belief as are the no less inadmissible pantheistic and anthropomorphic conceptions of God - both of which the utterances of Baha'u'llah emphatically repudiate and the fallacy of which they expose. WOB.112-113

We recognize in the manifestation of each one of them, whether outwardly or inwardly, the manifestation of none but God Himself, if ye be of those that comprehend. Every one of them is a mirror of God, reflecting naught else but His Self, His Beauty, His Might and Glory, if ye will understand. All else besides them are to be regarded as mirrors capable of reflecting the glory of these Manifestations Who are themselves the Primary Mirrors of the Divine Being, if ye be not devoid of understanding.... These Mirrors will everlastingly succeed each other, and will continue to reflect the light of the Ancient of Days. They that reflect their glory will, in like manner, continue to exist for evermore, for the Grace of God can never cease from flowing. GWB#030 p073-074, Ruhi3a.L16

The essence of belief in Divine unity (tawhid) consisteth in regarding Him Who is the Manifestation of God and Him Who is the invisible, the inaccessible, the unknowable Essence as one and the same. By this is meant that whatever pertaineth to the former, all His acts and doings, whatever He ordaineth or forbiddeth, should be considered, in all their aspects, and under all circumstances, and without any reservation, as identical with the Will of God Himself. GWB#084 p167

Naught is seen in My temple but the Temple of God, and in My beauty but His Beauty, and in My being but His Being, and in My self but His Self, and in My movement but His Movement, and in My acquiescence but His Acquiescence, and in My pen but His Pen, the Mighty, the All-Praised. There hath not been in My soul but the Truth, and in Myself naught could be seen but God. SLH.1#044; WOB.109, Ruhi3a.L21

I bear witness that he who hath known Thee hath known God, and he who hath attained unto Thy presence hath attained unto the presence of God. PM#180 p311, Ruhi4.3.31

He [the Bab] hath previously made known unto you that which would be uttered by this Dayspring of Divine wisdom. He said, and He speaketh the truth: "He [Baha'u'llah] is the One Who will under all conditions proclaim: 'Verily, there is none other God besides Me, the One, the Incomparable, the Omniscient, the All-Informed.'" This is a station which God hath assigned exclusively to this sublime, this unique and wondrous Revelation. This is a token of His bounteous favour, if ye be of them who comprehend, and a sign of His irresistible decree. KA#143

Say, verily, the good-pleasure of Him Whom God shall make manifest is the good-pleasure of God, while the displeasure of Him Whom God shall make manifest is none other than the displeasure of God. SWB.149, Ruhi4.3.4

Some of them say: 'He hath laid claim to divinity'... Lo! They are, in truth, enslaved to idle imaginings. TB.049

In the past the divines were perplexed over this question, a question which He Who is the Sovereign Truth hath, during the early years of His life, Himself heard them ask repeatedly: 'What is that Word which the Qa'im will pronounce whereby the leaders of religion are put to flight?' Say, that Word is now made manifest and ye have fled ere ye heard it uttered, although ye perceive it not. And that blessed, that hidden, that concealed and treasured Word is this: '"HE" hath now appeared in the raiment of "I". TB.258

["He" in "He is God" refers to Baha'u'llah] MA9.430-431, 510-512, 548

"I and the Father are one." John 10:30




Thus in moments in which these Essences of being were deeply immersed beneath the oceans of ancient and everlasting holiness, or when they soared to the loftiest summits of divine mysteries,they claimed their utterance to be the Voice of divinity,the Call of God Himself. KI#196 p179-180

This station [Divinity and Godhood] is the station in which one dieth to himself and liveth in God.  Divinity, whenever I mention it, indicateth My complete and absolute self-effacement.  This is the station in which I have no control over mine own weal or woe nor over my life nor over my resurrection. ESW.041




If any be set up by His side as peers, if they be regarded as identical with His Person, how can it, then, be maintained that the Divine Being is One and Incomparable, that His Essence is indivisible and peerless? GWB#028 p070

Certain ones among you have said: 'He it is Who hath laid claim to be God.' By God! This is a gross calumny. I am but a servant of God Who hath believed in Him and in His signs, and in His Prophets and in His angels. GWB#113 p228, SLH.5#101

That Baha'u'llah should, notwithstanding the overwhelming intensity of His Revelation, be regarded as essentially one of these Manifestations of God, never to be identified with that invisible Reality, the Essence of Divinity itself, is one of the major beliefs of our Faith - a belief which should never be obscured and the integrity of which no one of its followers should allow to be compromised. WOB.114




Certain ones among you have said: 'He it is Who hath laid claim to be God.' By God! This is a gross calumny. I am but a servant of God Who hath believed in Him and in His signs, and in His Prophets and in His angels. GWB#113 p228, SLH.5#101




The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition [irfan] of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His Cause and the world of creation. Whoso achieveth this duty hath attained unto all good; and whoso is deprived thereof hath gone astray, though he be the author of every righteous deed.[1] It behoveth every one who reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Source of Divine inspiration. KA#001, GWB#155 p330-331, Ruhi4.3.28, Ruhi3a.1.2, Ruhi7.1.6 [1] "The meaning of this blessed verse is that the foundation of success and salvation is the recognition of God, and that good deeds, which are the fruit of faith, derive from this recognition." SAQ#65.2 (was SAQ.238)

He it is Who is the Manifestation of Him Who is the Unknowable, the Invisible of the Invisibles, could ye but perceive it. GWB#014 p030, Ruhi2.3.6

And when Thou didst purpose to make Thyself known unto men, Thou didst successively reveal the Manifestations of Thy Cause, and ordained each to be a sign of Thy Revelation among Thy people, and the Day-Spring of Thine invisible Self amidst Thy creatures... PM#078 p128

Thus for man there is no path to tread and no place to turn save unto the holy Manifestations. For, as already mentioned, the reality of Divinity is transcendent, sanctified, and beyond all imagination. All that can be imagined are the holy and divine Manifestations. There is nowhere else for man to direct his gaze; and should he pass beyond this he will fall prey to delusion. Thus, what is meant by the words "He is God" is that that manifest Being is the promised Beauty and the Day-Star of Truth, the Exponent of the secrets of Lordship and Divinity, the Repository of the mysteries of the All-Merciful, and the Source of the signs of His Singleness; and that I have begun my discourse with His blessed Name. SAQ#089.3

This Wronged One testifieth that there is none other God but Him, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. He hath ever been veiled in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and the One Who speaketh in this day, speaketh at His behest. Verily, there is none other God but Me, the All-Glorious, the Best-Beloved. Verily, all that hath been revealed proceedeth from the Unseen, and the Unseen is indeed revealed through the Manifestation. Thus doth the Day-Star of Oneness shine forth from the Horizon of Divine Unity. Happy are they who comprehend. Say: None can recognize the Unseen, save through this manifest One. Glorified be the All-loving, He Who hath appeared on the Promised Day. (Provisional translation, BH10124)
