



It is the veil of idle imaginations which, in the days of the Manifestations of the Unity of God and the Day Springs of His everlasting glory, hath intervened, and will continue to intervene, between them and the rest of mankind. For in those days, He Who is the Eternal Truth manifesteth Himself in conformity with that which He Himself hath purposed, and not according to the desires and expectations of men. GWB#035 p082

Beware lest any name debar you from Him Who is the Possessor of all names, or any word shut you out from this Remembrance of God, this Source of Wisdom amongst you. KA#167

Know thou that between Us and the creatures there standeth a ladder with three steps. The first is described as the world and its vanities, the second as the hereafter and all that is ordained therein, and the third as the Kingdom of Names. Whoso is enabled to traverse these stations shall attain the presence of the Lord of Names and Attributes in less than a moment. Take heed, O people of Baha, lest ye tarry at these stations. Pass over them as swiftly as a passing cloud. (Baha'u'llah, authorized translation, in Ma'idiy-i-Asmani 8:120-121) After ascending to the heavens of inner meanings, the wayfarers attain to three stations, meaning that the manifest Sun shines and becomes revealed in the mirrors of existing things according to these three ranks, although some consider the ranks of determinations to be five and have named them the five presences. Were I to explain in detail, a book would not suffice and I would not be able to fulfill it, just as that divine mystic and knower of divine mysteries, the lordly Imam, mentioned a drop from these stations in defining the world of the heart, which has surely come to your noble attention - that the final rank of these three stations is the journey from God unto God. In this station and rank, existence is effaced from self and subsists through the Truth. All are from God and unto God shall they return, and "Say: All things are from God" is sufficient witness and adequate proof of this point, as the mystic of Rum has said: "The seeker's attributes are annihilated in His attributes, While his essence remains through the survival of His Essence." This station certainly has no laws and seeks no customs, meaning all His deeds are pure justice even if outwardly they appear as injustice, and pure knowledge even if in form they appear as ignorance. BH02091




In this material world, man is subject to the force of instinctual desires, of which sin is the inevitable consequence, for these desires are not bound by the laws of justice and righteousness. The body of man is a prisoner of nature and will act in accordance with whatsoever nature dictates. It follows that sins--such as wrathfulness, envy, contentiousness, greed, avarice, ignorance, rancour, corruption, pride, and cruelty--must exist in the material world. All these bestial attributes exist in the nature of man.... All sin is prompted by the dictates of nature. These dictates of nature, which are among the hallmarks of corporeal existence, are not sins with respect to the animal but are sins with regard to man. The animal is the source of imperfections such as anger, lust, envy, greed, cruelty, and pride. All these blameworthy qualities are found in the nature of the animal, and do not constitute sins with regard to the animal, whereas they are sins with regard to man. SAQ#29.5-6 (was SAQ.119)

Man is even as steel, the essence of which is hidden: through admonition and explanation, good counsel and education, that essence will be brought to light. If, however, he be allowed to remain in his original condition, the corrosion of lusts and appetites will effectively destroy him. LG#706 (Baha'u'llah)

Follow not the promptings of the self, for it summoneth insistently to wickedness and lust; follow, rather, Him Who is the Possessor of all created things, Who biddeth you to show forth piety, and manifest the fear of God. KA#064, Ruhi5.2.7

Disencumber yourselves of all attachment to this world and the vanities thereof. Beware that ye approach them not, inasmuch as they prompt you to walk after your own lusts and covetous desires, and hinder you from entering the straight and glorious Path. GWB#128 p276
