



Even the ether, the forces of which are said in natural philosophy to be heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. Likewise, nature itself is an intelligible and not a sensible reality; the human spirit is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. SAQ#16.3 (was SAQ.083-084)

Some hold that the body is the substance [jawhar] and that it subsists by itself, and that the spirit is an accident which subsists through the substance of the body. The truth, however, is that the rational soul is the substance through which the body subsists. If the accident--the body--is destroyed, the substance--the spirit--remains.... The rational soul--the human spirit--did not descend into this body or subsist through it to begin with, that it should require some substance to depend upon after the constituent parts of the body have decomposed. On the contrary, the rational soul is the substance upon which the body depends. SAQ#66.2-4 (was SAQ.239)

· What kind of dualism does this imply? Can matter ultimately be reducible to spirit?     · What are the implications of incorporeality? (Enn.III.6)     o How does the law of causality bridge the two?     o Is spirit not subject to change arising from material conditions?     o Neoplatonists: a strict separation is maintained, to     § maintain the purity/sanctity of spirit     § provide an explanation of evil (Enn.III.6)     · The soul's being associated with a body implies that it is at the same time both one and many, divisible and indivisible: So then the soul must be in this way both one and many and divided and indivisible. (Enn.IV.1.2)

...the Kingdom is not a material location but is sanctified above time and place. It is a spiritual realm, a divine world, and it is the seat of the sovereignty of the almighty Lord. It is exalted above bodies and all that is corporeal, and it is freed and sanctified from the idle conjectures of men. For to be confined to place is a characteristic of bodies and not of spirits: Time and place encompass the body, not the mind and the soul. ...the spirit has no place: It is a placeless reality, and for the spirit earth and heaven are the same, since it makes discoveries in both. SAQ#67.1-2 (was SAQ.241)

This other and inner reality is called the heavenly body, the ethereal form which corresponds to this body.  This is the conscious reality which discovers the inner meaning of things, for the outer body of man does not discover anything. PUP.464

Spirit cannot be perceived by the material senses of the physical body, excepting as it is expressed in outward signs and works. PT#28:13 p086

The human body is in space; the soul has no place in space.  Space is a quality of material things and that which is not material does not partake of space.  The soul, like the intellect, is an abstraction. ADP.128

As to the human spirit, it consisteth of the rational soul whereby man is distinguished from the animal. It is not from the world of material elements but rather from spiritual substance (mavad-i-ruhaniyyih). It is impervious to destruction. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, from MKT1:482, MA2.093, AvK1.204ff)

The reality of spirit, because it is not corporeal, cannot be in bodily form. ...It is beyond explanation, for it is a reality of the intellect, and not a thing which can be perceived. (Talk given to some American Pilgrims, 1 Jan. 1920; notes taken by Mr. Fugita)

The human reality in the other world has no physical likeness, nay, rather, it has the likeness of the Kingdom, which consists of the harmonious element of the realm of the Spiritual Kingdom. SW v02#05 p003 (Abdu'l-Baha, Tablet to Mr. and Mrs. Ostberg)

Reality is pure spirit, it is not physical: that is, it does not occupy space. SW v11#19 p315-316 (Tablet to J. Isbrucker)

Now in the human kingdom there is also a nature which is begotten through the composition of the elements, but it is united with the rational soul and the faculty of intellect. This human spirit, which is the same as the rational soul and the faculty of intellect, encompasses all things, and discovers and understands them. It draws forth the secrets of beings from the sphere of the invisible into the sphere of the visible. This is the power that discovers all the arts and crafts and sciences and makes them known to the world. Although it is not sensible, its effects are manifest and clear. Though it cannot be discerned with the physical senses, this power can be perceived with the spiritual senses. AvK1.186, KHT1.100; PC00603




Having recognized thy powerlessness to attain to an adequate understanding of that Reality which abideth within thee, thou wilt readily admit the futility of such efforts ... to fathom the mystery of the Living God.... This confession of helplessness which mature contemplation must eventually impel every mind to make is in itself the acme of human understanding, and marketh the culmination of man's development. GWB#083 p165-166

Thou hast asked Me concerning the nature of the soul. Know, verily, that the soul is a sign of God, a heavenly gem whose reality the most learned of men hath failed to grasp, and whose mystery no mind, however acute, can ever hope to unravel. It is the first among all created things to declare the excellence of its Creator, the first to recognize His glory, to cleave to His truth, and to bow down in adoration before Him. GWB#082 p158-159, Ruhi1.3.8

Verily I say, the human soul is, in its essence, one of the signs of God, a mystery among His mysteries. It is one of the mighty signs of the Almighty, the harbinger that proclaimeth the reality of all the worlds of God. Within it lieth that which the world is now utterly incapable of apprehending. GWB#082 p160

Wert thou to ponder in thy heart, from now until the end that hath no end ... this sign of the revelation of the All-Abiding, All-Glorious God, thou wilt fail to comprehend its mystery or to appraise its virtue. GWB#083 p165

Be it known that to know the reality or essence of the soul of man is impossible, for in order to know a thing, one must comprehend [surround?] it, and since a thing cannot comprehend [surround?] itself, to know one's self in substance is impossible. SW v07#19 190 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Regarding the passage in Gleanings, on the subject of the soul, it would be impossible for man to obtain a full grasp of this reality within him. The little knowledge we can have regarding this subject has been disclosed to us by Baha'u'llah and He has revealed it only to the extent that our limited minds can comprehend. (25 May 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Even as He hath said: "Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery." KI#107 p101, GWB#090 p177

Know that the Lord of the world, glorified and exalted be He, will take the soul of the believer and cause it to ascend unto the highest heaven. In this station of spiritual glory the souls of the believers will become acquainted with each other in the path which the Lord of the world hath foreordained. They will advance together toward the loftiest stations, and shall not return to the material world until the time when the eternal Will purposeth to return the creation and make the world anew. But in this new world all those called into being are new souls. It is not that a former soul becometh incarnated in another person, or that another individual becometh the soul of a former individual. Nay, rather they correspond with each other through manifestations; that is to say, he will be in the station of his soul, but his soul is not incarnated and the state of the soul does not become embodied.... Understanding the world of souls is impossible in this world of bodies. That world is unlike anything you can conceive in your imagination. In these perishable bodies one cannot perceive the immortal worlds, save through that which ye sometimes behold in a dream. AvK1.308-309; PA00375; BH05340
