



When a person becomes a Baha'i, actually what takes place is that the seed of the spirit starts to grow in the human soul. This seed must be watered with the outpourings of the Holy Spirit. These gifts of the spirit are received through prayer, meditation, study of the Holy Utterances and service to the Cause of God.... service in the Cause is like the plough which ploughs the physical soil when seeds are sown. LG#247 (6 Oct. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Through the power of concentration, prayer and meditation, and the effects produced, one can, however, feel the direct spiritual guidance of God. Purity of heart is an indispensable condition. (14 Jan. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Compilation on Spiritualism and Reincarnation)

Prayer and meditation are very important factors in deepening the spiritual life of the individual, but with them must go also action and example, as these are the tangible results of the former. Both are essential. LG#1483 (15 May 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Baha'u'llah has stated quite clearly in His Writings the essential requisites for our spiritual growth, and these are stressed again and again by 'Abdu'l-Baha in His talks and Tablets. One can summarize them briefly in this way: 1) The recital each day of one of the Obligatory Prayers with pure-hearted devotion. 2) The regular reading of the Sacred Scriptures, specifically at least each morning and evening, with reverence, attention and thought. 3) Prayerful meditation on the teachings, so that we may understand them more deeply, fulfil them more faithfully, and convey them more accurately to others. 4) Striving every day to bring our behaviour more into accordance with the high standards that are set forth in the teachings. 5) Teaching the Cause of God. 6) Selfless service in the work of the Cause and in the carrying on of our trade or profession. These points ... represent the path towards the attainment of true spirituality that has been laid down by the Manifestation of God for this age. LG#1835, M63-86 375.5 (1 Sep. 1983 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

The first thing to do is to acquire a thirst for Spirituality, then live the Life! Live the Life! Live the Life! The way to acquire this thirst is to meditate upon the future life. Study the Holy Words, read your Bible, read the Holy Books, especially study the Holy Utterances of Baha'u'llah; Prayer and Meditation, take much time for these two. Then will you know this Great Thirst, and then only can you begin to Live the Life! SW v19#03 p069

...prayer and meditation although closely related are two entirely different spiritual activities, neither of which is adequate without the other and both of which are inadequate without study. Prayer, meditation and study are fruitless unless they result in action. (Pilgrim notes of Al Raynor, 1956, p. 7)

As regards fasting, it constitutes, together with the obligatory prayers, the two pillars that sustain the revealed Law of God. They act as stimulants to the soul, strengthen, revive and purify it, and thus insure its steady development. DG#071, PBA.008

We have commanded you to pray and fast from the beginning of maturity; this is ordained by God, your Lord and the Lord of your forefathers. KA#010

All praise be unto God, Who hath revealed the law of obligatory prayer as a reminder to His servants, and enjoined on them the Fast that those possessed of means may become apprised of the woes and sufferings of the destitute. (Baha'u'llah, compilation on The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and Fasting, #2)

The other evening in discussing teaching work, the Guardian outlined four important steps, which I am taking the liberty of passing on to you. The steps which are required are Prayer, Meditation, Study of the Holy Utterances and then Action; and of great importance is that in action, the teacher should persevere under all circumstances. (6 Feb. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Success will crown the efforts of the Friends on the home front, when they meditate on the teachings, pray fervently for divine confirmations for their work, study the teachings so they may carry their spirit to the seeker, and then act, and above all persevere in action. When these steps are followed, and the teaching work carried on sacrificially and with devoted enthusiasm, the Faith will spread rapidly. COC#519 (11 Mar. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
