



It is incumbent upon the assemblies of those regions to be connected one with another and to correspond with one another, and also to communicate with the assemblies of the east, thus to become agencies for union throughout the world. SWAB#037 p078




A community is of course more than the sum of its membership; it is a comprehensive unit of civilization composed of individuals, families and institutions that are originators and encouragers of systems, agencies and organizations working together with a common purpose for the welfare of people both within and beyond its own borders; it is a composition of diverse, interacting participants that are achieving unity in an unremitting quest for spiritual and social progress. Since Baha'is everywhere are at the very beginning of the process of community building, enormous effort must be devoted to the tasks at hand.... Ridvan.1996, Ruhi7.2.27

The friends must never mistake the Baha'i administration for an end in itself. It is merely the instrument of the spirit of the Faith. This Cause is a Cause which God has revealed to humanity as a whole. It is designed to benefit the entire human race, and the only way it can do this is to re-form the community life of mankind, as well as seeking to regenerate the individual. The Baha'i administration is only the first shaping of what in future will come to be the social life and laws of community living. As yet the believers are only first beginning to grasp and practice it at times it seems a little self-conscious and rigid in its workings. It is because we are learning something very difficult but very wonderful -- how to live together as a community of Baha'is according to the glorious teachings. LG#149, LG#277 (14 Oct. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...the flourishing of the community, especially at the local level, demands a significant enhancement in patterns of behaviour by which the collective expression of the virtues of the individual members and the functioning of the Spiritual Assembly is manifest in the unity and fellowship of the community and the dynamism of its activity and growth. M86-01 212.5 (31 Dec. 1995 from the Universal House of Justice)

At the heart of all activities, the spiritual, intellectual and community life of the believers must be developed and fostered, requiring: the prosecution with increased vigour of the development of Local Spiritual Assemblies so that they may exercise their beneficial influence and guidance on the life of Baha'i communities; the nurturing of a deeper understanding of Baha'i family life; the Baha'i education of children, including the holding of regular Baha'i classes and, where necessary, the establishment of tutorial schools for the provision of elementary education; the encouragement of Baha'i youth in study and service; and the encouragement of Baha'i women to exercise to the full their privileges and responsibilities in the work of the community.... Ridvan.1979, COC#2207

...so much of the ability of the Faith to develop capacity for community building depends upon the size of our membership. (20 Aug. 2002 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, quoted in "Building Momentum")

A community is of course more than the sum of its membership; it is a comprehensive unit of civilization composed of individuals, families and institutions that are originators and encouragers of systems, agencies and organizations working together with a common purpose for the welfare of people both within and beyond its own borders; it is a composition of diverse, interacting participants that are achieving unity in an unremitting quest for spiritual and social progress. Since Baha'is everywhere are at the very beginning of the process of community building, enormous effort must be devoted to the tasks at hand. As we have said in an earlier message, the flourishing of the community, especially at the local level, demands a significant enhancement in patterns of behavior by which the collective expression of the virtues of the individual members and the functioning of the Spiritual Assembly is manifest in the unity and fellowship of the community and the dynamism of its activity and growth. This calls for the integration of the component elements -- adults, youth and children -- in spiritual, social, educational and administrative activities; and their engagement in local plans of teaching and development. It implies a collective will and sense of purpose to perpetuate the Spiritual Assembly through annual election. It involves the practice of collective worship of God. Ridvan.1996

Indeed the believers have not yet fully learned to draw on each other's love for strength and consolation in time of need. The Cause of God is endowed with tremendous powers, and the reason the believers do not gain more from it is because they have not learned to fully draw on these mighty forces of love and strength and harmony generated by the Faith. (8 May 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, COC#1288)




The essence of the series of Plans that have unfolded since 1996 is relatively simple. Individuals, communities, and institutions are called upon, within the context of a cluster, to create a program of growth involving a vibrant, meaningful, and distinctive pattern of collective Baha'i life, infused by the spirit of the Creative Word, and open not only to the believers but to those from the wider society. (Feb. 2014 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice; cited in The American Baha'i July/Aug 2014 p. 30)




How wonderful it would be if all the friends could arrange to spend at least a few days in one of these summer schools and take an active part in their development. These centers could attract many souls if properly arranged and made interesting; those non-Baha'is who visit them will then have some time to get into the spirit of the place and make a study of the Cause... We constantly receive letters from people who become Baha'is by visiting one of these centers and obtaining the Message there. COC#017 (May 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




The unity, love, harmony and proper understanding of the administration of the Cause which exists in a community are the measure of its progress, and on them depend directly the expansion of the Faith. UD.205 (9 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Ultimately, the power to transform the world is effected by love, love originating from the relationship with the divine, love ablaze among members of a community, love extended without restriction to every human being. This divine love, ignited by the Word of God, is disseminated by enkindled souls through intimate conversations that create new susceptibilities in human hearts, open minds to moral persuasion, and loosen the hold of biased norms and social systems so that they can gradually take on a new form in keeping with the requirements of humanity's age of maturity. You are channels for this divine love; let it flow through you to all who cross your path. Infuse it into every neighborhood and social space in which you move to build capacity to canalize the society-building power of Baha'u'llah's Revelation. There can be no rest until the destined outcome is achieved. (22 July 2020 from the Universal House of Justice)




The Baha'is must not fear the future: but should continue to live normal lives, but at the same time determinedly labour for the rapid expansion and consolidation of the Faith so dear to their hearts, and so greatly needed by mankind. (Messages to the Antipodes, p.416, 24 Sept. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
