



The early translations are far from being accurate, no matter who the translator may be. Shoghi Effendi firmly believes that only Tablets with the Master's signature and in the original tongue should be recognised. Any translations or copies of them fail from having real authority. UD.090 (20 Sep. 1930 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)     ... whereas he welcomes the work on the Tablets ... he does not wish anything done on notes taken or personal accounts of visits. The reason for this is the fear that a set of conflicting accounts of the same topic may crop up in various parts of the world from friends who have drawn largely from their memory, or have based their understanding of the Master's opinion or words, upon the imperfect, not to say faulty, renderings of the interpreters of those days. Such accounts are not only impossible to verify but may lead to much perplexity and constitute a set of traditions that may not prove healthy ... UD.098 (31 Jan. 1930 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)     Regarding "'Abdu'l-Baha in London": Nothing can be considered scripture for which we do not have an original text. A verbatim record in Persian of His talks would of course be more reliable than one in English, because He was not always accurately interpreted. However such a book is of value, and certainly has its place in our Literature. UD.208 (24 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

With reference to the Haifa notes collected by dear Mrs. Maxwell; these have exactly the same status as all other pilgrims' notes, and as such there should be no objection to their circulation among the believers.... Though not strictly official, and in some instances inaccurate and misleading, these notes, as experience has shown, can be of tremendous help, guidance and inspiration to many individual believers... LG#1439 (28 Apr. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Thou has written concerning the pilgrims and pilgrims' note. Any narrative that is not authenticated by a Text should not be trusted. Narratives, even if true, cause confusion. For the people of Baha, the Text, and only the Text, is authentic. LG#1431 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

Regarding the notes taken by pilgrims at Haifa. The Guardian has stated that he is unwilling to sign the notes of any pilgrim, in order that the literature consulted by the believers shall not be unduly extended... This means that the notes of pilgrims do not carry the authority resident in the Guardian's letters written over his own signature. On the other hand each pilgrim brings back information and suggestions of a most precious character, and it is the privilege of all the friends to share in the spiritual results of these visits. LG#1432 (Jul. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi: Baha'i News, No. 281, p. 4)

The instructions of the Master and the Guardian make it very clear that Pilgrims' notes are hearsay and cannot claim the authority and binding power of the Sacred Text....Moreover, the fact that the pilgrim writing of his experience is a reliable or well-known believer, or that the reported statement seems to be repeated in the notes of several pilgrims, does not in itself confer authority upon the pilgrim's note in question. LG#1433 (23 Jan. 1980 on behalf of the Universal House)

Shoghi Effendi has often said that the notes of the pilgrims should be for their own personal use and bear absolutely no authority. What he desires to convey to the friends at large he will always say in his general letters. LG#1434 (26 Feb. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi )

Shoghi Effendi has laid down the principle that the Baha'is should not attribute much importance to talks, reported to have been given by the Master, if these have not in one form or other obtained his sanction.         Baha'u'llah has made it clear enough that only those things that have been revealed in the form of Tablets have a binding power over the friends. Hearsays may be a matter of interest but can in no way claim authority. This basic teaching of Baha'u'llah was to preserve the Faith from being corrupted like Islam which attribute binding authority to all reported sayings of Muhammad.         This being a basic principle of the Faith we should not confuse Tablets that were actually revealed and mere talks attributed to the founders of the Cause. The first have absolute binding authority while the latter can in no way claim our obedience. The highest thing this can achieve is to influence the activities of the one who has heard the saying in person.         Those talks of the Master that were reviewed by Him corrected or in some other form considered authentic by Himself, such as the 'Some Answered Questions', these could be considered as Tablets and therefore be given the necessary binding power. All other talks such as are included in Ahmad's diary or the diary of pilgrims, do not fall under this category and could be considered only as interesting material to be taken for what they are worth.         For this reason Shoghi Effendi has not been encouraging the publication of reported sayings that were not authenticated by the Master Himself. And when he said that they may be published if quotations marks are taken away, Shoghi Effendi tried to prevent the friends from considering as actual words of the Master things that were not authenticated by Him. LG#1435 (29 Dec. 1931 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

According to the Teachings of Baha'u'llah no authority can be attached to a mere hearsay, no matter through whom it may come. The Tablets that bear the seal or signature of Baha'u'llah and the Master are the only parts of the literature that have any authority and that constitute the basis of our belief. All other forms of literature may bear points of interest but they cannot be considered as authentic. This is the view that Shoghi Effendi took towards the talks of 'Abdu'l-Baha that Ahmad Sohrab had incorporated in his book, and it is the attitude that he would take towards any other reported saying, naturally unless the Master has appended His signature to that talk and thereby given it the authority of a tablet such as is the case with Some Answered Questions that was actually corrected by Him. LG#1437 (18 Nov. 1931 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




The interpretations of 'Abdu'l-Baha and the Guardian are divinely-guided statements of what the Word of God means and as such these interpretations are binding on the friends. However, the existence of authoritative interpretations in no way precludes the individual from engaging in his own study of the teachings and thereby arriving at his own interpretation or understanding. Indeed, Baha'u'llah invites the believers to "immerse" themselves in the "ocean" of His "words", that they "may unravel its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its depths. (9 Mar. 1987 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

There is also an important distinction made in the Faith between authoritative interpretation, as described above, and the interpretation which every believer is fully entitled to voice. Believers are free, indeed are encouraged, to study the Writings for themselves and to express their understanding of them. Such personal interpretations can be most illuminating, but all Baha'is, including the one expressing the view, however learned he may be, should realize that it is only a personal view and can never be upheld as a standard for others to accept, nor should disputes ever be permitted to arise over differences in such opinions. M63-86 308.16 (3 Jan. 1982 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

If you study the Writings of 'Abdu'l-Baha and of the Guardian, you will see how tremendously they differ from the interpretations of the Rabbis and the Church. They are not a progressive fossilization of the Revelation, they are for the most part expositions which throw a clear light upon passages which may have been considered obscure, they point up the intimate interrelationship between various teachings, they expound the implications of scriptural allusions, and they educate the Baha'is in the tremendous significances of the Words of Baha'u'llah. Rather than in any way supplanting the Words of the Manifestation, they lead us back to them time and again. M63-86 308.15 (3 Jan. 1982 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)
