



O My brother, consider these matters in the spirit of enquiry, not in blind imitation. CDB#2.49 (was SV.24)

The teachings of Baha'u'llah are the light of this age and the spirit of this century. Expound each of them at every gathering. The first is investigation of truth... The fourth, conformity between science and divine revelation... SWAB#070 p107

There have issued, from His mighty Pen, various teachings for the prevention of war, and these have been scattered far and wide. The first is the independent investigation of truth; for blind imitation of the past will stunt the mind. SWAB#202 p248

Among these teachings was the independent investigation of reality so that the world of humanity may be saved from the darkness of imitation and attain to the truth; may tear off and cast away this ragged and outgrown garment of a thousand years ago and may put on the robe woven in the utmost purity and holiness in the loom of reality. SWAB#227 p298

The first teaching of Baha'u'llah is the duty incumbent upon all to investigate reality. What does it mean to investigate reality? It means that man must forget all hearsay and examine truth himself, for he does not know whether statements he hears are in accordance with reality or not. Wherever he finds truth or reality, he must hold to it, forsaking, discarding all else. PUP.062

In this day man must investigate reality impartially and without prejudice in order to reach the true knowledge and conclusions. PUP.075

First, it is incumbent upon all mankind to investigate truth. If such investigation be made, all should agree and be united, for truth or reality is not multiple; it is not divisible. PUP.105-106

...truth or reality must be investigated; for reality is one, and by investigating it all will find love and unity. PUP.127

Question: Will you state the tenets of your faith? Answer: First, investigate reality. Man must leave imitation and seek reality. PUP.169

The first teaching of Baha'u'llah is the investigation of reality. Man must seek reality himself, forsaking imitations and adherence to mere hereditary forms.  PUP.180

...know ye that God has created in man the power of reason, whereby man is enabled to investigate reality. God has not intended man to imitate blindly his fathers and ancestors. PUP.291

God has given man the eye of investigation by which he may see and recognize truth. He has endowed man with ears that he may hear the message of reality and conferred upon him the gift of reason by which he may discover things for himself. This is his endowment and equipment for the investigation of reality. Man is not intended to see through the eyes of another, hear through another's ears nor comprehend with another's brain. Each human creature has individual endowment, power and responsibility in the creative plan of God. Therefore, depend upon your own reason and judgment and adhere to the outcome of your own investigation; otherwise, you will be utterly submerged in the sea of ignorance and deprived of all the bounties of God. PUP.293

God has created man and endowed him with the power of reason whereby he may arrive at valid conclusions. Therefore, man must endeavor in all things to investigate the fundamental reality. If he does not independently investigate, he has failed to utilize the talent God has bestowed upon him. PUP.312-313

Baha'u'llah proclaimed certain principles or teachings, some of which I will mention. First, man must independently investigate reality, for the disagreements and dissensions which afflict and affect humanity primarily proceed from imitations of ancestral beliefs and adherences to hereditary forms of worship. PUP.314

...the first principle of His mission and teaching - the oneness of the world of humanity. His second announcement was the investigation of reality; the third was the oneness of the foundations of the divine religions. PUP.341

The first teaching is that man should investigate reality, for reality is contrary to dogmatic interpretations and imitations of ancestral forms of belief to which all nations and peoples adhere so tenaciously. PUP.372

First among the great principles revealed by Him is that of the investigation of reality. The meaning is that every individual member of humankind is exhorted and commanded to set aside superstitious beliefs, traditions and blind imitation of ancestral forms in religion and investigate reality for himself. PUP.433

Another new principle revealed by Baha'u'llah is the injunction to investigate truth - that is to say, no man should blindly follow his ancestors and forefathers. PUP.454

The first principle of the Teaching of Baha'u'llah is the Search after Truth. Man must cut himself free from all prejudice and from the result of his own imagination, so that he may be able to search for truth unhindered. PT#40:8 p129

If a man would succeed in his search after truth, he must, in the first place, shut his eyes to all the traditional superstitions of the past. PT#41:2 p135

The first principle of Baha'u'llah is independent investigation of truth, that is, all the nations of the world have to investigate after truth independently and turn their eyes from the moribund blind imitations of the past ages entirely. Truth is one when it is independently investigated, it does not accept division. Therefore the independent investigation of truth will lead to the oneness of the world of humanity. JWTA.035 (Tablet dated 9 Dec. 1920)

Firstly: He lays stress on the search for Truth. This is most important, because the people are too easily led by tradition. AL.027

No man should follow blindly his ancestors and forefathers. Nay, each must see with his own eyes, hear with his own ears and investigate independently in order that he may find the truth. ADP.026

It is hoped that all the Baha'i students will follow the noble example you have set before them and will, henceforth, be led to investigate and analyse the principles of the Faith and to correlate them with the modern aspects of philosophy and science. Every intelligent and thoughtful young Baha'i should always approach the Cause in this way, for therein lies the very essence of the principle of independent investigation of truth. (6 Aug. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in the compilation on Scholarship, extract #50)

It behoveth every man to blot out the trace of every idle word from the tablet of his heart, and to gaze, with an open and unbiased mind, on the signs of His Revelation, the proofs of His Mission, and the tokens of His glory. GWB#007 p011, Ruhi4.1.2

The people, therefore, must be set completely free from their old patterns of thought, that all their attention may be focused upon these new principles, for these are the light of this time and the very spirit of this age. SWAB#205 p253

How often a person, having inclined his ears to the holy verses, would bow down in humility and would embrace the Truth, while his leader would not do so. Thus every individual must bear his own responsibility, rather than someone else bearing it for him.... in every Dispensation a number of souls enter the fire by reason of their following in the footsteps of others. SWB.091

The essence of all that We have revealed for thee is Justice (insaf), is for man to free himself from idle fancy and imitation, discern with the eye of oneness His glorious handiwork, and look into all things with a searching eye. TB.157

Whether too soon or too late, the evidences of His effulgent glory are now actually manifest. It behoveth you to ascertain whether or not such a light hath appeared. GWB#050 p103

Your letters were received. They showed that ye have investigated the truth and have been freed from imitations and superstitions, that ye observe with your own eyes and not with those of others, hearken with your own ears and not with the ears of others, and discover mysteries with the help of your own consciences and not with those of others. For the imitator saith that such a man hath seen, such a man hath heard, and such a conscience hath discovered; in other words he dependeth upon the sight, the hearing and the conscience of others and hath no will of his own. SWAB#014 p029

The attainment of these virtues, both material and ideal, is conditioned upon intelligent investigation of reality, by which investigation the sublimity of man and his intellectual progress is accomplished. Forms must be set aside and renounced; reality must be sought. We must discover for ourselves where and what reality is.... The requirement in this day is that man must independently and impartially investigate every form of reality. PUP.327

As you well understand, not only the right but also the responsibility of each believer to explore truth for himself or herself are fundamental to the Baha'i teachings. This principle is an integral feature of the coming of age of humankind, inseparable from the social transformation to which Baha'u'llah is calling the peoples of the world. It is as relevant to specifically scholarly activity as it is to the rest of spiritual and intellectual life. Every human being is ultimately responsible to God for the use which he or she makes of these possibilities; conscience is never to be coerced, whether by other individuals or institutions. (8 Feb. 1998 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

For Baha'is, the most fundamental of human rights is the right of each individual to investigate reality for himself or herself, and to benefit from the results of this exploration. That such a right exists is to us self-evident from the fact that the human consciousness is endowed with the intellectual, moral, spiritual, and aesthetic capacities needed to undertake such an effort. (Statement by the Baha'i International Community, "Development, Democracy and Human Rights", 14-25 Jun. 1993)

The activity most intimately linked to the consciousness that distinguishes human nature is the individual's exploration of reality for himself or herself. The freedom to investigate the purpose of existence and to develop the endowments of human nature that make it achievable requires protection. Human beings must be free to know. That such freedom is often abused and such abuse grossly encouraged by features of contemporary society does not detract in any degree from the validity of the impulse itself. (Statement by the Baha'i International Community, "The Prosperity of Humankind", 3 Mar. 1995)

...when you meet those whose opinions differ from your own, do not turn away your face from them. All are seeking truth, and there are many roads leading thereto. Truth has many aspects, but it remains always and forever one. Do not allow difference of opinion, or diversity of thought to separate you from your fellow-men, or to be the cause of dispute, hatred and strife in your hearts. Rather, search diligently for the truth and make all men your friends. PT#15.08-10 p053
