



But infallibility as an attribute ['ismat-i-sifatiyyih] is not an essential requirement; rather, it is a ray of the gift of infallibility which shines from the Sun of Truth upon certain hearts and grants them a share and portion thereof. Although these souls are not essentially infallible, yet they are under the care, protection, and unerring guidance of God--which is to say, God guards them from error. Thus there have been many sanctified souls who were not themselves the Daysprings of the Most Great Infallibility ['ismat-i-kubra], but who have nevertheless been guarded and preserved from error under the shadow of divine care and protection. For they were the channels of divine grace between God and man, and if God did not preserve them from error they would have led all the faithful to fall likewise into error, which would have wholly undermined the foundations of the religion of God and which would be unbefitting and unworthy of His exalted Reality. To summarize, infallibility in essence ['ismat-i-dhatiyyih] is confined to the universal Manifestations of God, and infallibility as an attribute ['ismat-i-sifatiyyih] is conferred upon sanctified souls. SAQ#45.3-4 (was SAQ.172)

Such matters should be determined through consultation, and whatever emergeth from the consultation of those chosen, that indeed is the command of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. COC#169 (From a Tablet of Baha'u'llah, translated from the Persian)

And regarding infallibility, the Primal Point, exalted and glorified be He, hath declared that whosoever believeth in Him is infallible, and whosoever believeth not is bereft of infallibility. He hath further declared that infallibility is not what the followers of the Qur'an have imagined, who have regarded religious precautions as infallibility. Rather, infallibility belongeth to him who, at the time of the Manifestation, believeth in God, even though he be accounted among the lowliest of creation. Therefore, turn your gaze away from these considerations and fix your eyes upon God and that which proceedeth from His presence, that ye may behold yourselves sanctified from all such questions and doubts. BH00097 (provis. trans. by Claude 3.5 Sonnet)




Nay, whatsoever proceedeth from these Mines of divine Wisdom and these Treasuries of eternal knowledge is truth, and naught else but the truth. KI#202 p184

Know that infallibility is of two kinds: infallibility in essence ['ismat-i-dhatiyyih] and infallibility as an attribute ['ismat-i-sifatiyyih]. The same holds true of all other names and attributes: For example, there is the knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge of its attributes. Infallibility in essence is confined to the universal Manifestations of God; for infallibility is an essential requirement of Their reality, and the essential requirement of a thing is inseparable from the thing itself.... Briefly, Baha'u'llah says that "He Who is the Dawning-place of God's Cause" is the manifestation of "He doeth whatsoever He willeth", that this station is reserved to that sanctified Being, and that others receive no share of this essential perfection. That is, since the essential infallibility of the universal Manifestations of God has been established, whatsoever proceeds from Them is identical with the truth and conformable to reality. They are not under the shadow of the former religion. Whatsoever They say is the utterance of God, and whatsoever They do is a righteous deed, and to no believer is given the right to object; rather must he show forth absolute submission in this regard, for the Manifestation of God acts with consummate wisdom, and human minds may be incapable of grasping the hidden wisdom of certain matters. Therefore, whatsoever the universal Manifestation of God says and does is the very essence of wisdom and conformable to reality.... In sum, the meaning of "He doeth whatsoever He willeth" is that if the Manifestation of God issues a command, enforces a law, or performs an action whose wisdom His followers cannot grasp, they should not think for a moment of questioning His words or actions. All souls are under the shadow of the universal Manifestation, must submit to the authority of the religion of God, and are not to deviate so much as a hairsbreadth. Rather, they must conform their every act and deed to the religion of God, and should they deviate from it they will be reproved and held accountable before God. It is certain that they have no share of the station "He doeth whatsoever He willeth", for it is confined to the universal Manifestation of God. SAQ#45.2-5 (was SAQ.171-173)

He Who is the Dawning-place of God's Cause hath no partner in the Most Great Infallibility. He it is Who, in the kingdom of creation, is the Manifestation of 'He doeth whatsoever He willeth'. God hath reserved this distinction unto His own Self, and ordained for none a share in so sublime and transcendent a station. KA#047

Praise be unto God Who hath made the Most Great Infallibility the shield for the temple of His Cause in the realm of creation, and hath assigned unto no one a share of this lofty and sublime station TB.105

...the term 'Infallibility' hath numerous meanings and divers stations. In one sense it is applicable to the One Whom God hath made immune from error. Similarly it is applied to every soul whom God hath guarded against sin, transgression, rebellion, impiety, disbelief and the like. However, the Most Great Infallibility is confined to the One Whose station is immeasurably exalted beyond ordinances or prohibitions and is sanctified from errors and omissions.... Were He to pronounce water to be wine or heaven to be earth or light to be fire, He speaketh the truth and no doubt would there be about it; and unto no one is given the right to question His authority or to say why or wherefore.... This is a station wherein sins or trespasses neither exist nor are mentioned.... ...within His realm of supreme infallibility He hath not taken a partner nor a counsellor unto Himself. TB.108-110

I beg of Thee by the Most Great Infallibility which Thou hast chosen to be the dayspring of Thy Revelation... TB.116

In response to thy request the Pen of Glory hath graciously described the stations and grades of the Most Great Infallibility. The purpose is that all should know of a certainty that the Seal of the Prophets - may the souls of all else but Him be offered up for His sake - is without likeness, peer or partner in His Own station. TB.123-124

the whole theory of Divine Revelation rests on the infallibility of the Prophet, be He Christ, Muhammad, Baha'u'llah, or one of the others. If They are not infallible, then They are not Divine, and thus lose that essential link with God which, we believe, is the bond that educates men and causes all human progress. LG#1572 (11 Jan. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...some believe that wine hath ever been and shall remain forbidden. Now, were one to inform them that it might one day be made lawful, they would arise in protest and opposition. In truth, the people of the world have yet not grasped the meaning of "He doeth whatsoever He willeth", nor have they comprehended the significance of Supreme Infallibility. The suckling child must be nourished with milk. If it be given meat it will assuredly perish, and this would be naught but sheer injustice and unwisdom. Blessed are they that understand. Supreme Infallibility, as I once heard from His blessed lips, is reserved exclusively to the Manifestations of the Cause of God and the Exponents of His Revelation. TU.2#32

Now, as to the question of method raised by Dr. Piper. The Baha'is of course, who believe in the doctrine of Divine Revelation cannot share the belief of the positivists and the so called modern thinkers according to whom man is the sole criterion of truth. Baha'u'llah, just as all the Prophets who have preceded Him, maintains that truth is one and that the source from which it proceeds is one, namely God Himself. To the Baha'is, therefore, the Revealed Word is the balance, the infallible balance, by which truth can be distinguished from error. The human mind is too limited, too impotent to be able, all alone, to understand the purpose and plan of God for His creation. The source of ultimate guidance, therefore, is the Prophet. His word is infallible. If it seems to be in conflict with prevailing notions and standards, this is no sufficient reason to justify us to repudiate it. Rather we should endeavor to so direct our methods of investigation as to be able to reach the very same conclusions the Prophet has arrived at. (20 Dec. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The belief in the infallibility of the Prophet does not necessarily mean that he individual should cease investigating truth for himself. It calls for a new orientation of his mind, its deliverance from false notions and ideas, from all sorts of prejudice. It is only in this way that the sincere seeker can attain the knowledge of truth. Then he will find that his investigations do in no way bring him into conflict with the Revealed Word of God. For truth admits of no multiplicity. It is for this reason that it has been said that true science leads to true religion. (20 Dec. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




'Are the Manifestations sinless?' 'Yes, there must be a standard of perfection for human example.' (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of 'Akka, p.6)

The Prophets of the Word could not sin. They possess the power and will to violate the Will of God, but the desire to do so is never present in them. Knowing the perfect fruit of Oneness, they have no inclination toward that which is imperfect. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of 'Akka, p.10)

The only people who are truly free from the 'dross of self' are the Prophets, for to be free of one's ego is a hallmark of perfection. We humans are never going to become perfect for perfection belongs to a realm we are not destined to enter. LG#389 (8 Jan. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

He [Moses] said: 'I did it indeed, and I was one of those who erred.' KI#057 p055, ESW.065

...all prophets are interiorly preserved from sin without their being conscious of it, even before they are warned by inspiration. (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 103)

He said: 'O my Lord! I have sinned to mine own hurt, forgive me.'... Moses Himself, moreover, acknowledged His injustice and waywardness, and testified that fear had seized Him, and that He had transgressed, and fled away. ESW.066-067

How often have the Prophets of God and His universal Manifestations confessed in Their prayers to Their sins and shortcomings! This is only to instruct other souls, to inspire and encourage them to be humble and submissive before God, and to acknowledge their own sins and shortcomings. For these holy Souls are sanctified above every sin and freed from every fault. SAQ#44.12

"As for how the `Adliyya define `isma, their definition is the most appropriate. The gist of the correct part of their definition is that (`isma) is a divine disposition that prevents the act of disobeying and intending to do so while retaining the capability to do it.... The ma`sum abstains from all the things that God has prohibited." (Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa'i, Kitab al-`isma (Book of Infallibility), introduction). In the Baha'i writings, `isma is translated as "infallibility," "sinlessness," and "protection." Ma`sum is a person characterized by `isma. The `Adliyya ("followers of justice") are the Shia and the Mu'tazilites, who believe that God's justice requires that humans act of their own volition and thus merit the resulting reward or punishment. In Shaykh Ahmad's book, the synonyms of disobeying (ma`siyya) are sin (dhanb), negligence (ghafla), venial sin (saghira), mortal sin (kabira), shortcoming (taqsir), and evil deed (sayyi'a). His synonyms for negligence (ghafla) are forgetfulness (nisyan), inattention (sahw), and error (khata'). All these words have to do with the morality of an action. The final word, khata', is found in `Abdu'l-Baha's Will and Testament in reference to the Universal House of Justice as "the source of all good and freed from all error (khata')." (notes by Will McCants, https://web.archive.org/web/20210422200615/http://www.kashkul.org/2010/10/06/shaykh-ahmad-on-infallibility/)




Today the dynamic power of the world of existence is the power of the Covenant which like unto an artery pulsateth in the body of the contingent world and protecteth Baha'i unity. The Baha'is are commanded to establish the oneness of mankind; if they cannot unite around one point how will they be able to bring about the unity of mankind? The purpose of the Blessed Beauty in entering into this Covenant and Testament was to gather all existent beings around one point so that the thoughtless souls, who in every cycle and generation have been the cause of dissension, may not undermine the Cause. He hath, therefore, commanded that whatever emanateth from the Centre of the Covenant is right and is under His protection and favour, while all else is error. SWAB#183 p208-209

For nothing short of the explicit directions of their Book, and the surprisingly emphatic language with which they have clothed the provisions of their Will, could possibly safeguard the Faith for which they have both so gloriously labored all their lives. Nothing short of this could protect it from the heresies and calumnies with which denominations, peoples, and governments have endeavored, and will, with increasing vigor, endeavor to assail it in future. WOB.022

There are only two institutions which are infallible, one is the Guardianship, the other the International House of Justice. What the Master desired to protect the friends against was continual bickering and opinionatedness. (19 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi; in "Baha'i News", 1947, p. 3)




Out of the pangs of anguish which His bereaved followers have suffered, amid the heat and dust which the attacks launched by a sleepless enemy had precipitated, the Administration of Baha'u'llah's invincible Faith was born. The potent energies released through the ascension of the Center of His Covenant crystallized into this supreme, this infallible Organ for the accomplishment of a Divine Purpose. The Will and Testament of 'Abdu'l-Baha unveiled its character, reaffirmed its basis, supplemented its principles, asserted its indispensability, and enumerated its chief institutions. With that self-same spontaneity which had characterized her response to the Message proclaimed by Baha'u'llah America had now arisen to espouse the cause of the Administration which the Will and Testament of His Son had unmistakably established. It was given to her, and to her alone, in the turbulent years following the revelation of so momentous a Document, to become the fearless champion of that Administration, the pivot of its new-born institutions and the leading promoter of its influence. (Shoghi Effendi, WOB.088)
