



...it has been established by science that the material heaven is a limitless space, void and empty, wherein countless stars and planets move. SAQ#22.5 (was SAQ.104)

This infinite universe is from everlasting. The sovereignty, power, names and attributes of God are eternal, ancient. His names presuppose creation and predicate His existence and will.... God is infinite; the works of God are infinite; the bestowals of God are infinite. PUP.158-159

A sprinkling from the unfathomed deep of His sovereign and all-pervasive Will hath, out of utter nothingness, called into being a creation which is infinite in its range and deathless in its duration. The wonders of His bounty can never cease, and the stream of His merciful grace can never be arrested. The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end. GWB#026 p061

As to thy question concerning the worlds of God. Know thou of a truth that the worlds of God are countless in their number, and infinite in their range. None can reckon or comprehend them except God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. GWB#079 p151-152, TB.187

As to thy question whether the physical world is subject to any limitations, know thou that the comprehension of this matter dependeth upon the observer himself. In one sense, it is limited; in another, it is exalted beyond all limitations. GWB#082 p162

Know thou that the expressions of the creative hand of God throughout His limitless worlds are themselves limitless. Limitations are a characteristic of the finite, and restriction is a quality of existent things, not of the reality of existence. This being the case, how can one, without proof or testimony, conceive of creation being bound by limits? (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:016)

Just as particulars are infinite in number, so also universals, on the material plane, and the great realities of the universe are without number and beyond computation.... ...the worlds of bodily existence the mind of no man can reckon nor the understanding of the learned comprehend. Consider the following well-known tradition and examine its meanings indicative of the vastness of the cosmos and its awesome limitless expanse: 'God, exalted be He, fashioned one hundred thousand, thousand lamps and suspended the Throne, the earth, the heavens and whatsoever is between them, even Heaven and Hell - all of these in a single lamp. And only God knows what is in the rest of the lamps.' (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:017)

just as the luminous spiritual worlds are sanctified above computation or limitation, so too are the physical worlds in this vast immensity of space. This is a secret of which God hath apprised His servants through His grace and mercy in order to demonstrate the idleness of the fancies of those who disbelieve in God... (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:024)

...as we observe the coming together of elements giveth rise to the existence of beings, and knowing that beings are infinite, they being the effect, how can the Cause be finite? Forel.16

Consider the endless phenomena of His creation.  They are infinite; the universe is infinite.  Who shall declare its height, its depth and length? It is absolutely infinite. PUP.274

The physical universe is infinite, and if material existence is endless, how much more so are the worlds of God!  When we think of the visible worlds as infinite, how can we think that the worlds of God are limited?  There is no beginning and no end to the material or spiritual worlds. ADP.118

Every single manifestation of the myriad forms of creation is a reflection of the divine emanations, therefore the divine emanations are infinite, unlimited and illimitable.... In brief, the creation of God is beyond the grasp of the human intellect. When this objective creation of God is unlimited and not subject to suspension, is not the subjective creation of His Majesty the Almighty limitless? ADP.168

If the material world is infinite with regard to its manifestations of life, can the spiritual world be finite? ADP.170

...look into this endless universe: a universal power inevitably existeth, which encompasseth all, directing and regulating all the parts of this infinite creation; and were it not for this Director, the Coordinator, the universe would be flawed and deficient. SWAB#021 p048

As to what thou hast asked concerning other worlds: Verily God hath ever possessed worlds without end; but each of them doth circle round this world... (the Bab, provisional translation, AvK1.119)

...in this universe of God's, which appears in the utmost perfection, beauty, and grandeur, the luminous bodies of the material universe are infinite. SAQ#81.13 (was SAQ.288)




Shouldst thou ponder this in thine heart, thou wouldst realize that His handiwork knoweth neither beginning nor end.... His creation no end hath overtaken, and it hath ever existed from the 'Beginning that hath no beginning'; and the Manifestations of His Beauty no beginning hath beheld, and they will continue to the 'End that knoweth no end.' KI#178 p167

...it is acknowledged by all that there was a time when these species existed nowhere on the face of the earth, and indeed a time when the earth itself did not exist. But the world of existence has always been, for it is not confined to this terrestrial globe. SAQ#38.5 (was SAQ.151)

...the entire universe, whether with respect to the realm of nature or the realm of man, proceeds through cycles of major events and occurrences. When a cycle comes to a close, a new one is inaugurated, and the previous cycle, on account of the momentous events which transpire, vanishes so entirely from memory as to leave behind no record or trace. Thus, as you are aware, we have no record of twenty thousand years ago, even though we established before through rational arguments that life on this earth is very ancient--not one or two hundred thousand, or even one or two million years old: It is ancient indeed, and the records and traces of ancient times have been entirely obliterated. Each of the Manifestations of God has likewise a cycle wherein His religion and His law are in full force and effect. When His cycle is ended through the advent of a new Manifestation, a new cycle begins. Thus, cycles are inaugurated, concluded, and renewed, until a universal cycle is completed in the world of existence and momentous events transpire which efface every record and trace of the past; then a new universal cycle begins in the world, for the realm of existence has no beginning. SAQ#41.2-4 (was SAQ.160-161)

Know that it is one of the most abstruse questions of divinity that the world of existence--that is, this endless universe--has no beginning.... ...as that Essence of Oneness [dhat-i-ahadiyah], or divine Being, is eternal and everlasting--that is, as it has neither beginning nor end--it follows that the world of existence, this endless universe, likewise has no beginning. SAQ#47.3 (was SAQ.180)

The one true God hath everlastingly existed, and will everlastingly continue to exist. His creation, likewise, hath had no beginning, and will have no end. All that is created, however, is preceded by a cause. This fact, in itself, establisheth, beyond the shadow of a doubt, the unity (tawhid) of the Creator. GWB#082 p162

Indeed He was a hidden treasure. This is a station that can never be described nor even alluded to. And in the station of 'I did wish to make Myself known', God was, and His creation had ever existed beneath His shelter from the beginning that hath no beginning, apart from its being preceded by a Firstness which cannot be regarded as a firstness and originated by a Cause inscrutable even unto all men of learning. TB.140

The Creator has ever had a creation, and the rays have ever emanated and shone forth from the Sun of Truth; for a lightless sun would be impenetrable darkness. The names and attributes of God require the existence of things, and no cessation in the outpouring of God's ancient grace can ever be contemplated, for this would be contrary to the divine perfections. SAQ#80.7 (was SAQ.281)

This infinite universe is from everlasting. The sovereignty, power, names and attributes of God are eternal, ancient. His names presuppose creation and predicate His existence and will.... God is infinite; the works of God are infinite; the bestowals of God are infinite. PUP.158-159

These names and attributes of Divinity are eternal and not accidental. This is a very subtle point which demands close attention. Their existence is proved and necessitated by the appearance of phenomena.... the divine names and attributes presuppose the existence of phenomena implied by those names and attributes.... If we try to conceive of a time when creation was nonexistent, when there were no subjects or creatures under divine dominion and control, Divinity itself would disappear; there would be a cessation of the bounty of God... The sovereignty of God is eternal. There has been no beginning; there will be no end. PUP.271-272

The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end, otherwise it would necessitate the cessation of his celestial grace. SWB.125

A sprinkling from the unfathomed deep of His sovereign and all-pervasive Will hath, out of utter nothingness, called into being a creation which is infinite in its range and deathless in its duration. The wonders of His bounty can never cease, and the stream of His merciful grace can never be arrested. The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end. GWB#026 p061

Consider the hour at which the Supreme Manifestation of God revealeth Himself unto man. Ere that hour cometh, the Ancient Being, Who is still unknown of men and hath not as yet given utterance to the Word of God, is Himself the All-Knower in a world devoid of any man that hath known Him. He is indeed the Creator without a creation. GWB#078 p151

the eternality of the world is necessary in order to avoid allowing a temporal action to be attributed to God     This universe has come into existence, not as the result of a process of reasoning that it ought to exist but because it was necessary that there should be a second nature... [Enn.III.3.2] this universe ... exists of necessity and not as the result of any process of reasoning, but of a better nature naturally producing a likeness of itself [Enn.III.3.3]     Things that are said to have come into being did not just come into being [at a particular moment] but always were and always will be in process of becoming Enn.II.9.3 this universe did not begin and will not come to an end but exists always as long as the intelligible realities exist. Enn.II.9.7

As to thy question concerning the origin of creation. Know assuredly that God's creation hath existed from eternity, and will continue to exist forever. Its beginning hath no beginning, and its end knoweth no end. GWB#078 p150

His creation hath ever existed, and the Manifestations of His Divine glory and the Day Springs of eternal holiness have been sent down from time immemorial, and been commissioned to summon mankind to the one true God. That the names of some of them are forgotten and the records of their lives lost is to be attributed to the disturbances and changes that have overtaken the world. GWB#082 p174

If we acknowledge that there is a beginning for this world of creation, we acknowledge that the sovereignty of God is accidental.... the requirements of the attributes of God do not admit of cessation or interruption, for the names of God are actually and forever existing and not potential. PUP.219

Baha'u'llah says, 'The universe has neither beginning nor ending.' He has set aside the elaborate theories and exhaustive opinions of scientists and material philosophers by the simple statement, 'There is no beginning, no ending.' PUP.220

If we should say that there was a time in past ages when God was not possessed of His creation or that there was a beginning for the world, it would be a denial of creation and the Creator.... The sovereignty thereof is everlasting, and the creation thereof is without beginning and without end. PUP.378

...as long as there has been a God, there has been a creation. As long as there has been light, there have been recipients of that light, for light cannot become manifest unless those things which perceive and appreciate it exist.... inasmuch as the reality of Divinity is without a beginning, creation is also without a beginning. This is as clear as the sun. When we contemplate this vast machinery of omnipresent power, perceive this illimitable space and its innumerable worlds, it will become evident to us that the lifetime of this infinite creation is more than six thousand years; nay, it is very, very ancient. PUP.462-463

In regard to 'creation', say to the historian that in the same way that 'divinity' and 'lordship' have no beginning, 'creativity' and 'provision', and the other original divine perfections, also have no beginning and no end. In other words, creation has existed from the beginning that has no beginning and will last until the end that has no end. The species (naw') and essences of all things are permanent and changeless. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA9.027)

The universe has never had a beginning.  From the point of view of essence it transforms itself.... The power of God is eternal and there have always been beings to manifest it; that is why we say that the worlds of God are infinite - there has never been a time when they did not exist. ADP.107

The world of creation has had no beginning, and will have no end, because it is the arena upon which the attributes and qualities of the sprit are being manifested. ADP.169

The world i.e. the universe, is eternal. The earth is but one planet where natural life is millions and millions of years old. (Fallscheer notes, p. 35)

Regarding thy question as to the beginning of creation: Know thou that the True One has eternally ever been and so also have His creatures, for there is no beginning either for the True One or for the creatures. According to the bodies in the contingent world, the 'beginning' mentioned in the Holy Scriptures means the beginning of the Manifestation, and 'creation' signifies the second spiritual birth... The purpose or the meaning of the beginning of creation mentioned in the Holy Books is spiritual creation and rebirth. (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha to Isabella D. Brittingham, Barstow Collection #286b, quoted here)

The learned men, that have fixed at several thousand years the life of this earth, have failed, throughout the long period of their observation, to consider either the number or the age of the other planets.... Know thou that every fixed star hath its own planets, and every planet its own creatures, whose number no man can compute. GWB#082 p163

None can grasp the reality of the origin of creation save God, exalted be His glory, Whose knowledge embraceth all things both before and after they come into being. Creation hath neither beginning nor end, and none hath ever unravelled its mystery. Its knowledge hath ever been, and shall remain, hidden and preserved with those Who are the Repositories of divine knowledge. TU.2#48

If we determine a beginning and an end for creation, it is as if we determine a beginning and an end for God. There can be no creator without a creation. The sun without light and a king without subjects and a country are simply inconceivable. (Mahmud's Diary, p. 254)




To the eternity of time belongs the infinity of space and the omnipotence and the imperishability of power (= might, creative power, original force). One without the other is wholly unthinkable and illogical.... The creative power, the infinite space, and eternity thus fuse in a single concept. (Fallscheer notes, p. 37)
