
Write all that We have revealed unto thee with the ink of light upon the tablet of thy spirit (ruh). Should this not be in thy power, then make thine ink of the essence of thy heart (fu'ad).... AHW#71

If the mystic knowers be among them that have attained the beauty of the Beloved, this station is the throne of the inmost heart ('arsh-i-fu'ad) and the secret of divine guidance. This is the seat of the mystery "He doeth what He willeth, and ordaineth what He pleaseth." Should all that are in heaven and on earth attempt to unravel this exalted allusion and subtle mystery, from now until the Day whereon the Trumpet shall sound, yet would they fail to comprehend even a letter thereof, for this is the station of God's immutable decree and His foreordained mystery. Hence, when asked regarding this matter, He made reply: "It is a bottomless sea that none shall ever fathom." And when the question was repeated, He answered: "It is the blackest of nights through which none can find his way." Whoso comprehendeth this station will assuredly conceal it, and were he to reveal but the faintest trace thereof, they would assuredly hang him from the gallows. CDB#7.28 (was SV.57-58)

This [fourth valley] is the realm of pure awareness and utter self-effacement. Not even love can find a way to this plane, nor doth affection have a place therein. Wherefore is it said: "Love is a veil betwixt the lover and the beloved." Here love becometh but an obstructing veil, and aught save the Friend but a curtain. Thus the wise Sana'i hath written: 'None may approach that well-belov'd who harboreth his own desire; None may embrace that beauteous form who's burdened with his own attire.' For this is the realm of God ('alam-i-amr) and is sanctified above every allusion of His creatures. Abiding in the court of rapture, the dwellers of this mansion wield with utmost joy and gladness the sceptres of divinity and lordship; and, established upon the lofty seats of justice, they exert their rule and bestow upon every soul its due. CDB#7.34-35 (was SV.60)

Concerning this realm there is many a tradition and many a verse, whether of general or specific import, but two of these will suffice, that they may serve as a light for knowing hearts and bring delight to longing souls. The first is His statement "O My servant! Obey Me, that I may make thee like unto Myself. For I say 'Be', and it is, and thou shalt say 'Be', and it shall be." And the second: "O son of Adam! Seek fellowship with none until thou hast found Me, and whensoever thou shalt long for Me, thou shalt find Me nigh unto thee." CDB#7.41-42 (was SV.63)

The heart (qalb) is the foremost place of appearance (mazhar) of the fu'ad and is in reality two hearts. One is the place of the First Intellect (al-'aqlu'l-awwal), which is the heart of Muhammad, and the other is opposite which is the place of Universal Ignorance.... The way to [the first] is utterly blocked; but a 'First Intellect' (awwal 'aql) which relates in the contingent world what is within the heart of Muhammad is 'Ali. 'Ali said regarding this primal, universal, divine soul (al-nafs al-uluhiyyah al-kulliyyah al-awwaliyyah): 'It is a divine power (quwwatun 'aqliyyun) and a simple essence (jawharun basitun) which lives with the Essence (dhat). Its source is the intellect ('aql). It begins from it and summons on its behalf.... Its return is to it whenever it is perfected and becomes like it. From it begin all existing things (mawjudat), and to it they ultimately return. Thus it is the exalted essence of God and the Tree of Repentance and the Lote-tree beyond which there is no passing, and the Garden of Refuge. (The Bab, Tafsir Suratu'l-Baqarah, provisional translation, BSB6:2-3, p.19. Cf. ESW.112: "The third is the soul which is divine (Lahutiyyih) and celestial (Malakutiyyih). It is a divine (Lahutiyyih) energy, a substance (jawhar), simple (basit), and self-subsistent (hayat bi-dhat).")

There are seven general stages. The first is the stage of the inorganic being. From the mineral kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the plant..., and from the plant kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the animal....When it reacheth the stage of soul, spirit, and mind, then in accordance with that stage, it hath a death which will certainly destroy all privative aspects. Finally, the command will reach the stage of the inmost heart, which is the gulf of immortality and pure life, in the presence of the Lord of creation. There, for evermore, the servant will gaze towards God. (The Bab, provisional translation, Asraru'l-Athar, vol. 4, p. 121, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

Elevate the alphabetical letters of that divine verse unto the sublime station of the manifestation of their heart (fu'ad)... Verily that ascent is the spirit of the Elixir of true knowledge, so that the servant may advance all that is motionless unto the lofty station of vibrant motion, and make manifest the Causes of his existence within the stage of the effect, and reveal the fruit of the Final Cause in the rank and station of the receptive phenomena. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.050)

The concept of "heart" (fu'ad) is one of the most important principles in the writings of the Bab. The station of the heart is the highest stage of a created being's existential reality. It is the reflection of divine revelation itself within the inmost reality of things. To interpret the words, therefore, is in essence to transform them into mirrors of divine reality... The task of true hermeneutics is to cause a fundamental transformation in the phenomenal realm: to elevate the phenomena to the station of the heart is to uncover the signs of divine revelation that are enshrined within the reality of those phenomena... (N. Saiedi, in GOH.050-051)

Such conclusive truth hath been revealed through the gaze of the heart (fu'ad), and not that of intellect. For intellect conceives not save limited things. Verily, bound by the realm of limitations, men are unable to gaze upon things simultaneously in their manifold aspects. Thus it is perplexing for them to comprehend that lofty station. No one can recognize the truth of the Middle Way between the two extreme poles except after attaining unto the gate of the heart and beholding the realities of the worlds, visible and unseen. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.177)

[T]hat which is beyond these two extremes, which is the Middle Path ... can be comprehended by naught save the heart. God hath created the heart to understand His unity and transcendence, and it is through the heart that Divine Unity can be witnessed at the level of action. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.212)
