



...Christ did not attain His Messianic station and His perfections at the moment of His baptism, when the Holy Spirit descended upon Him in the form of a dove. Rather, the Word of God has always been, and will ever remain, in the loftiest heights of sanctity. SAQ#38.9 (was SAQ.153)

From the beginning, that sanctified Reality is undoubtedly aware of the secret of existence, and from childhood the signs of greatness are clearly manifested in Him. How then could He fail, in spite of such bounties and perfections, to be conscious of His own station? SAQ#39.5 (was SAQ.155)

In the Gospel it is said: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God." It follows then that Christ did not attain His Messianic station and His perfections at the moment of His baptism... SAQ#38.9 (was SAQ.153)

We, verily, set foot within the School of God when ye lay slumbering; and We perused the Tablet while ye were fast asleep.... 'In truth, God created that School ere He created heaven and earth, and We entered it before the letters B and E were joined and knit together.' KA#176-177

Whomsoever He ordaineth as a Prophet, he, verily, hath been a Prophet from the beginning that hath no beginning, and will thus remain until the end that hath no end, inasmuch as this is an act of God. ESW.155

Consider the hour at which the Supreme Manifestation of God revealeth Himself unto man. Ere that hour cometh, the Ancient Being, Who is still unknown of men and hath not as yet given utterance to the Word of God, is Himself the All-Knower in a world devoid of any man that hath known Him. He is indeed the Creator without a creation. GWB#078 p151

The Universal Manifestations, before their manifestation, are possessed of awareness [of their station] (agah budihand) for they are the Dawning Places of Divine Knowledge. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA4.154-155)

Some have assumed that the divine Manifestations are not aware of their inner truth prior to the day of revelation, like a lamp which is deprived of light. However, this is a mistake, for the holy Manifestations have been distinguished from the beginning. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Ganjiniy-i-Hudud va Ahkam, p. 376)

The Holy Spirit was always with Christ. He knew about his mission from early childhood. LG#1642, SW v14#09 p274 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

The Manifestations no doubt had some consciousness of Their station, but what the nature of that consciousness was we do not know. LG#1698 (19 Nov. 1945 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The dignity and burden of prophethood is not conferred on the true Prophet, but it is inborn, created in Him. (Fallscheer notes, p. 26)

No one entered his presence without becoming awe-stricken by his might. The learned men who approached him were astounded at his knowledge, yet he never attended school nor learned of men. His friends and his family all testify to this, yet his teachings are the soul of this age. The sun emanates from itself and does not draw its light from other sources. The divine teachers have the innate light; they have knowledge and understanding of all things in the universe; the rest of the world receives its light from them and through them the arts and sciences are revived in each age. ADP.053, Ruhi4.3.2

I was asleep on My couch, when lo, the Breeze of God wafting over Me roused Me from My slumber. His quickening Spirit revived Me, and My tongue was unloosed to voice His Call. GWB#041 p090

I lay asleep upon the bed of self when lo, Thou didst waken me with the divine accents of Thy voice, and didst unveil to me Thy beauty, and didst enable me to listen to Thine utterances, and to recognize Thy Self, and to speak forth Thy praise, and to extol Thy virtues, and to be steadfast in Thy love. PM#018 p021
