



Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Baha'is (who have asked his advice, and in general also) to study history, economics, sociology, etc. in order to be au courant with all the progressive movements and thoughts being put forth today, and so that they could correlate these to the Baha'i teachings. What he wants the Baha'is to do is to study more, not to study less. The more general knowledge, scientific and otherwise, they possess, the better. Likewise he is constantly urging them to really study the Baha'i teachings more deeply. One might liken Baha'u'llah's teachings to a sphere; there are points poles apart, and in between the thoughts and doctrines that unite them. (5 Jul. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Issues Concerning Community Functioning)

We must take the teachings as a great, balanced whole, not seek out and oppose to each other two strong statements that have different meanings; somewhere in between, there are links uniting the two. That is what makes our Faith so flexible and well balanced. (19 Mar. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, quoted in a letter on behalf of the Universal House of Justice dated 27 Apr. 1995)

These various statements [on evolution] must be taken in conjunction with all the Baha'i teachings; we cannot get a correct picture by concentrating on just one phrase. (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Arohanui, p. 85)

He feels that many of the perplexities that arise in your mind could be dissipated if you always conceived of the teachings as one great whole with many facets. Truth may, in covering different subjects, appear to be contradictory, and yet it is all one if you carry the thought through to the end.... (24 Feb. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in The Importance of Deepening, p. 228)

The evidence of the divine greatness of the Cause is that its teachings are so perfectly balanced. No virtue is so over-emphasized as to become a bias or weakness. It enables men to follow the golden mean, to be moderate and well balanced in all their affairs. That is why one can find statements that if taken by themselves seem to be almost incompatible with each other, but taken as a whole they form one perfect design, a pliable, workable system by which all men can live. (19 Jul. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

You point to seeming contradictions in the Teachings, but truth is like a jewel with many facets. One verse may describe one facet and another, another. This does not mean that they are contradictory, merely that both must be pondered and understood in order to obtain a fuller insight into reality. One frequent cause of disputes in previous Dispensations was the penchant of men to seize upon and magnify one statement in their Scriptures while ignoring others which would have balanced it. (23 Mar. 1975 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

In attempting to understand the Writings, therefore, one must first realize that there is and can be no real contradiction in them, and in the light of this we can confidently seek the unity of meaning which they contain. M63-86 75.4 (7 Dec. 1969 from the Universal House of Justice)
