



...realize that all the created things are as letters and words... TAB.537

By the 'word' we mean that creation with its infinite forms is like unto letters and the individual members of humanity are likewise like unto letters.  A letter individually has no meaning, no independent significance, but the station of Christ is the station of the word. ADP.148




There is no doubt that the completeness seen in each and every thing arises, by divine creation, from the component elements, their appropriate combination, their proportionate measure, the manner of their composition, and the influence of other created things. For all beings are linked together like a chain; and mutual aid, assistance, and interaction are among their intrinsic properties and are the cause of their formation, development, and growth. It is established through numerous proofs and arguments that every single thing has an effect and influence upon every other, either independently or through a causal chain. SAQ#46.6 (was SAQ.178-179)

As we, however, reflect with broad minds upon this infinite universe, we observe that motion without a motive force, and an effect without a cause are both impossible; that every being has come to exist under numerous influences and continually undergoes reaction.  These influences, too, are formed under the action of still other influences... Forel.18

The elements and lower organisms are synchronized in the great plan of life.... From the fellowship and commingling of the elemental atoms life results.  In their harmony and blending there is ever newness of existence.  It is radiance, completeness; it is consummation; it is life itself.... PUP.350

...although all created things grow and develop, yet are they subjected to influences from without. For instance, the sun giveth heat, the rain nourisheth, the wind bringeth life, so that man can develop and grow. Thus it is clear that the human body is under influences from the outside, and that without those influences man could not grow. SWAB#021 p049

...all creatures are eaters and eaten, and the very fabric of life is reared upon this fact. Were it not so, the ties that interlace all created things within the universe would be unravelled. SWAB#137 p157

The Blessed Beauty saith: 'Ye are all the fruits of one tree, the leaves of one branch.' Thus hath He likened this world of being to a single tree, and all its peoples to the leaves thereof, and the blossoms and fruits. It is needful for the bough to blossom, and leaf and fruit to flourish, and upon the interconnection of all parts of the world-tree, dependeth the flourishing of leaf and blossom, and the sweetness of the fruit. For this reason must all human beings powerfully sustain one another and seek for everlasting life; and for this reason must the lovers of God in this contingent world become the mercies and the blessings sent forth by that clement King of the seen and unseen realms. Let them purify their sight and behold all humankind as leaves and blossoms and fruits of the tree of being. Let them at all times concern themselves with doing a kindly thing for one of their fellows, offering to someone love, consideration, thoughtful help. SWAB#001 p001 (For an ancient example of the world tree imagery see Plotinus, Enn.III.3.7)

...every part of the universe is connected with every other part by ties that are very powerful and admit of no imbalance, nor any slackening whatever.... Physical bodies are transferred past one barrier after another, from one life to another, and all things are subject to transformation and change, save only the essence of existence itself - since it is constant and immutable, and upon it is founded the life of every species and kind, of every contingent reality throughout the whole of creation. SWAB#137 p157

The stars in the sky do not exert any spiritual influence on this world of dust; but all the members and parts of the universe are very strongly linked together in that limitless space, and this connection produceth a reciprocity of material effects. SWAB#139 p160 (An earlier translation is found in Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 85 and LG#1761)

In sum, all beings, whether universal or particular, are mutually connected in accordance with God's consummate wisdom and mutually influence one another. Were it not so, the all-embracing organization and universal arrangement of existence would become disordered and disrupted. And as all created things are most soundly connected one with another, they are well ordered, arranged, and perfected. SAQ#69.6 (was SAQ.247)

...cooperation and reciprocity are essential properties which are inherent in the unified system of the world of existence, and without which the entire creation would be reduced to nothingness. In surveying the vast range of creation thou shalt perceive that the higher a kingdom of created things is on the arc of ascent, the more conspicuous are the signs and evidences of the truth that cooperation and reciprocity at the level of a higher order are greater than those that exist at the level of a lower order... (Abdu'l-Baha, from the compilation on Huququ'llah, extract #61, p.19)

Fundamentally all existing things pass through the same degrees and phases of development, and any given phenomenon embodies all others.  An ancient statement of the Arabian philosophers declares that all things are involved in all things. PUP.349

Through this power of attraction and repulsion there is a universal law of interdependence between these stars. ADP.114

May they break all bonds of limitation, so that they can observe from the height the lordly processions of infinite creatures; ... every atom of existence breathing life and force - the universe of God a wonderful theatre upon the stage of which every created thing plays its part... ADP.138-139

Every part of the universe has its connection with every other part, according to a Divine system.... All the created beings are connected with each other, and all occurrences and events are indicative of the requirements of this connection and interrelation. ...every small part has connection with every great part, and what affects one affects the other or all the others. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, pp. 24-25)

The chain of creation is interwoven in one universal law and divine order. Everything is interlinked. A link cannot be broken without affecting that universal order. Everything that happens is according to the exigencies of this order and is based on consummate wisdom. (Mahmud's Diary, 19 Jun. 1912, p. 139 [revised]; AvK1.082; MA2.060)

...the whole of creation is interrelated like the different parts of the human body which have a complete affinity from the toenail to the hair on the head. Every part is perfectly connected with the other. Similarly, the whole of creation forms a chain composed, as it were, of many links connected with each other. It is therefore obvious that they all greatly influence each other and are part of organized, regular cycles. (Mahmud's Diary, 4 Jul. 1912, p. 157)

If a lover holds the hand of a beloved, it is obvious what feelings ensue. They communicate face to face and speak heart to heart, as this light is communicating now with human eyes, the sun with the earth, the cloud with the land and the breeze with the tree. This process is found in all things. (Mahmud's Diary, 24 Sep. 1912, p. 286; Bada'iu'l-Athar 1:267; AvK1.328)

In all the world of creation all the existent beings are in the utmost connection.... If for one instant this ... were cut off ..., all the existent beings and things would be thrown into confusion... SW v01#04 p013-014 (Abdu'l-Baha)

When we ponder deeply on the connection and interdependence of beings we clearly realize that the life of every being draws benefit and sustenance from all the other innumerable existences.... In brief, the beings of sensation acquire life from the growing beings and in turn the growing things receive life from the sensitive creatures. Therefore this interchange of forces and intercommunication is continual and uninterrupted. SW v08#11 p137-138 (Abdu'l-Baha, Tablet to the Oriental friends)

...there is a connection, and the growth and evolution of each are dependent and contingent upon the other.... This chain of interrelation is continuous throughout all existence. Not a single one of the parts of the chain can be loosened; it if were loosened the organization of existence would be faulty. (Pilgrim notes of Myron Phelps, ca. 1917. p. 2)

The world of man has no communication with the vegetable or animal world. But there are sensations or spiritual emotions between the two. When man looks to the plain, meadow or mountain he does not speak with them, but there is a wave of spiritual communication between the two. (Pilgrim notes of George Latimer, The Light of the World, p. 144)

Reflect on the power of God who has caused even the elements to possess this means of communication with man. All things existing in the world, all minerals, all the plants will (can) communicate with man... (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, pp. 49-50)

Then, having attached everything to this, go down again, dividing and seeing the one dispersed by reaching to all things and including them together in a single common order, so that it is a single multiplex living thing with distinct parts, and each of the things in it acts according to its own nature while being all the same in the whole... Plotinus, Enn.III.3.1         All things must be joined to one another; not only must there be in each individual part what is well called a single united breath of life but before them, and still more, in the All. One principle must make the universe a single complex living creature, one from all. Enn.II.3.7

...I will speak to you upon the intrinsic oneness of the world of all phenomena. This is one of the abstruse subjects of divine philosophy. As each component atom or element in the physical organisms of existence is subject to transference through endless forms and stages, possessing virtues peculiar to those forms and stations, it is evident that all phenomena of material being are fundamentally one.... the origin of all material life is one and its termination likewise one. PUP.349-350

...the great divine philosophers have had the following epigram: All things are involved in all things. For every single phenomenon has enjoyed the postulates of God, and in every form of these infinite electrons it has had its characteristics of perfection. FWU.052

All phenomena are involved in all phenomena. Consider what a transcendent unity exists, that, from this standpoint, every monad is the expression of all creation; this is the law and order in the world of existence. ADP.168

This material world has an outward appearance, as it has also an inner reality. All created things are interlinked in a chain leading to spirituality and ultimately ending in abstract realities. (Mahmud's Diary, 28 Apr. 1912, p. 66)

As to shortness of life, fewness of children, and scarcity of means, these are a result of all encompassing wisdom, the source of which is divine fate -- and divine fate consists in the firm and binding relationships between the various parts of the universe. Every event is bound up with every other event, and every exigency, owing to these necessary relationships (ravabit-i-daruri), is related to every other. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.083-084)

Since the attributes of all things may be observed in each thing, this is why the part is endowed with the nature of the whole, and this is the secret of that which was formerly revealed by the Manifestation of Myself: "Whosoever quickeneth one soul, it is as though he hath quickened all mankind." AvK1.150-151, PA00365 (provisional translation from the Lawh-i-Nasir)

Were one to observe with an eye that discovereth the realities of all things, it would become clear that the greatest relationship that bindeth the world of being together lieth in the range of created things themselves, and that co-operation, mutual aid and reciprocity are essential characteristics in the unified body of the world of being, inasmuch as all created things are closely related together and each is influenced by the other or deriveth benefit therefrom, either directly or indirectly. COC#1159 (Abdu'l-Baha)




There is no doubt that the completeness seen in each and every thing arises, by divine creation, from the component elements, their appropriate combination, their proportionate measure, the manner of their composition, and the influence of other created things. For all beings are linked together like a chain; and mutual aid, assistance, and interaction are among their intrinsic properties and are the cause of their formation, development, and growth. It is established through numerous proofs and arguments that every single thing has an effect and influence upon every other, either independently or through a causal chain. SAQ#46.6 (was SAQ.178-179)

In sum, all beings, whether universal or particular, are mutually connected in accordance with God's consummate wisdom and mutually influence one another. Were it not so, the all-embracing organization and universal arrangement of existence would become disordered and disrupted. And as all created things are most soundly connected one with another, they are well ordered, arranged, and perfected. SAQ#69.6 (was SAQ.247)




Thou hadst asked about fate (qada), predestination (qadar) and will (iradih). Qada and qadar consist in the necessary and indispensable relationships which exist in the realities of things. These relationships have been placed in the realities of existent beings through the power of creation and every incident is a consequence of the necessary relationship. For example, God hath created a relation between the sun and the terrestrial globe that the rays of the sun should shine and the soil should yield. These relationships constitute qadar, and the manifestation thereof in the plane of existence is qada. Iradih is that active force which controlleth these relationships and these incidents. Such is the epitome of the explanation of qada and qadar. I have no time for a detailed explanation. Ponder over this; the reality of qada, qadar, and iradih shall be made manifest. SWAB#167 p198
