



...egress and inherence pertain only to sensible realities, not to intelligible subtleties; and intelligible realities, such as reason, love, knowledge, imagination, and thought, do not enter, exit, or inhere, but rather denote relationships. For example, knowledge, which is a form acquired by the mind, is an intelligible thing, and to speak of entering into the mind or exiting from it is absurd. Rather, it is a relationship of acquisition, even as images are reflected in a mirror. SAQ#25.3-4 (was SAQ.108)

Knowledge is of two kinds: existential [wujudi] knowledge and formal [suri] knowledge, that is, intuitive [tahaqquqi] knowledge and conceptual [tasavvuri] knowledge. The knowledge that people generally have of things consists in conceptualization and observation; that is, either the object is conceived through the rational faculty, or through its observation a form is produced in the mirror of the heart. The scope of this knowledge is quite limited, as it is conditioned upon acquisition and attainment. The other kind of knowledge, however, which is existential or intuitive knowledge, is like man's knowledge and awareness of his own self.... This knowledge is not the result of effort and acquisition: It is an existential matter; it is pure bounty. SAQ#40.2-5 (was SAQ.157)

The human subtle reality (al-latifat al-insaniyya), also called the soul (nafs), knows in a variety of modes. When it knows through reflection, the mode of knowing is called reason ('aql). When it knows directly from God, the mode of knowing is called the heart (qalb), which is contrasted with reason.... There are not two different entities known as reason and heart, though there is a real difference between the modalities of knowing. (Chittick, in The Sufi Path of Knowledge, p. 159)

But the human spirit, unless it be assisted by the spirit of faith, cannot become acquainted with the divine mysteries and the heavenly realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear, bright, and polished, is still in need of light. Not until a sunbeam falls upon it can it discover the divine mysteries. SAQ#55.5 (was SAQ.208-209)

This light [the heavenly light, vs. the light of the intellect] may be likened unto a mirror, and as a mirror reflects all that is before it, so this Light shows to the eyes of our spirits all that exists in God's Kingdom and causes the realities of things to be made visible. By the help of this effulgent Light all the spiritual interpretation of the Holy Writings has been made plain, the hidden things of God's Universe have become manifest, and we have been enabled to comprehend the Divine purposes for man. PT#22:10 p070

The source of crafts, sciences and arts is the power of reflection. TB.072




Far, far from Thy glory be what mortal man can affirm of Thee, or attribute unto Thee, or the praise with which he can glorify Thee! Whatever duty Thou hast prescribed unto Thy servants of extolling to the utmost Thy majesty and glory is but a token of Thy grace unto them, that they may be enabled to ascend unto the station conferred upon their own inmost being, the station of the knowledge (irfan) of their own selves. GWB#001 p004-005, Ruhi5.2.5

This most great, this fathomless and surging Ocean is near, astonishingly near, unto you. Behold it is closer to you than your life-vein! [cf. Qur'an 50:16] Swift as the twinkling of an eye ye can, if ye but wish it, reach and partake of this imperishable favor, this God-given grace, this incorruptible gift, this most potent and unspeakably glorious bounty. O My servants! Could ye apprehend with what wonders of My munificence and bounty I have willed to entrust your souls, ye would, of a truth, rid yourselves of attachment to all created things, and would gain a true knowledge of your own selves - a knowledge which is the same as the comprehension of Mine own Being. Ye would find yourselves independent of all else but Me, and would perceive, with your inner and outer eye, and as manifest as the revelation of My effulgent Name, the seas of My loving-kindness and bounty moving within you. GWB#153 p326-327, Ruhi2.1.3, Ruhi5.2.5

...the purpose of the creation of man is the knowledge (irfan) of the True One (haqq), and this knowledge is dependent upon the servants knowing their own selves - they who, through their own vision, and heart, and understanding, are incapable of comprehending the True One... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.014-015)

The first Taraz and the first effulgence which hath dawned from the horizon of the Mother Book is that man should know his own self and recognize that which leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory of abasement, wealth or poverty. TB.034-035, Ruhi5.2.5

When Ali asked Mohammad, 'What am I to do that I may not waste my time?' the Prophet answered, 'Learn to know thyself.' (Azid ibn Muhammad al-Nasafi, in A Treasury of Traditional Wisdom)

The object of God's teaching to man is that man may know himself in order to comprehend the greatness of God. AL.080

We beseech God that He may graciously vouchsafe His grace unto all men, and enable them to attain the knowledge of Him and of themselves. GWB#100 p205, Ruhi3a.L15

Therefore it is necessary, according to true wisdom, that the Preexistent God describe Himself to His creatures, that they may recognize their Creator and that, out of the grace of the Pre-existent, the contingent beings may attain their supreme End. This divine self-description is itself a created thing. It is unlike any other description, the sign of 'He is the One Who hath no equal,' and the truth of the servant, his true being. Whoso hath recognized it hath recognized his Lord.... This description is denoted as the 'soul' or 'self', and he who hath known himself hath known his Lord. At other times, it is expressed as the heart, which is a description of the Divinity, by the Divinity, and is the essence of Servitude. It is the Sign of God shown by Him in the world and within the souls of men, that it may be revealed unto them that verily He is the Truth. Behold with the eye of thy heart. Verily thy truth, the truth of thy being, is the divinity of thy Lord revealed unto thee and through thee. Thou art He Himself, and He is thou thyself, except that indeed thou art that thou art, and He is that He is. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.251)




No matter how high the soaring ones fly in the utmost degrees of knowledge and understanding, ... they are but reading letters from the book of their own selves, and reaching only to the brilliant unseen signs that are enshrined in the reality of their own beings, and circling round the centre of their own entities. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:097)

This most great, this fathomless and surging Ocean is near, astonishingly near, unto you. Behold it is closer to you than your life-vein! [cf. Qur'an 50:16] Swift as the twinkling of an eye ye can, if ye but wish it, reach and partake of this imperishable favor, this God-given grace, this incorruptible gift, this most potent and unspeakably glorious bounty. O My servants! Could ye apprehend with what wonders of My munificence and bounty I have willed to entrust your souls, ye would, of a truth, rid yourselves of attachment to all created things, and would gain a true knowledge of your own selves - a knowledge which is the same as the comprehension of Mine own Being. Ye would find yourselves independent of all else but Me, and would perceive, with your inner and outer eye, and as manifest as the revelation of My effulgent Name, the seas of My loving-kindness and bounty moving within you. GWB#153 p326-327, Ruhi2.1.3, Ruhi5.2.5

...however much detached minds and pure souls seek to penetrate the worlds of Inner Knowledge, their understanding will never penetrate more than that station which is a sign pointing towards the Monarch of Primal Oneness which He has placed as a trust within the reality of man. And however much they may fly with triumphant wings in the limitless space of what is knowable and observable, they will read naught but the letters of the book of their own selves.... For example, consider a circle; however much a compass moves, it can only move around the point which is the centre of the circle. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:048)

If the wayfarers be among them that seek after the sanctuary of the Desired One, this plane pertaineth to the self--but the self which is intended is "the Self of God that pervadeth all His laws".... This is the plane of the soul that is pleasing (mardiyyih) unto God, whereof He saith: "Enter thou among My servants, and enter thou My Paradise." This station hath myriad signs and countless tokens. Hence it is said: "We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within themselves, until it become plain to them that there is no God save Him." [Qur'an 17:15] CDB#7.9-11 (was SV.50-51)

Even as He hath revealed: 'We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within themselves.' Again He saith: 'And also in your own selves: will ye not, then, behold the signs of God?' And yet again He revealeth: 'And be ye not like those who forget God, and whom He hath therefore caused to forget their own selves.' In this connection, He Who is the eternal King ... hath spoken: 'He hath known God who hath known himself.' KI#107 p102, GWB#090 p178

True loss is for him whose days have been spent in utter ignorance of his self. TB.156

The more we search for ourselves, the less likely we are to find ourselves; and the more we search for God, and to serve our fellow-men, the more profoundly will we become acquainted with ourselves, and the more inwardly assured. This is one of the great spiritual laws of life. LG#391 (18 Feb. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation: Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you. Luke 17:20-21

For pray do not ... spin your airy fables about moon or sun or the other objects in the sky and in the universe so far removed from us and so varied in their natures, until you have scrutinized and come to know yourselves. After that, we may perhaps believe you when you hold forth on other subjects; but before you establish who you yourselves are, do not think that you will ever become capable of acting as judges or trustworthy witnesses in the other matters. (Philo Judaeus, in A Treasury of Traditional Wisdom)

Withdraw into yourselves and look. And if you do not find yourself beautiful yet, act as does the creator of a statue that is to be made beautiful; he cuts away here, he smoothes there, he makes this line lighter, this other purer, until a lovely face has grown upon his work. So do you also: ... never cease chiselling your statue... (Plotinus, in A Treasury of Traditional Wisdom)

He who knows others is wise; He who knows himself is enlightened. (Lao Tzu, Tao te Ching, xxxiii)

...if anyone is going to admit that it knows God, he will be compelled to agree that it also knows itself. Plotinus, Enn.V.3.7

[The Intellect] saw, as if in utter amazement, and, since it held something of [the Good] in itself, it had an intimate awareness of it and came into a state of longing.... In this way the soul also loves that Good, moved by it to love from the beginning. Plotinus, Enn.VI.7.31

For were they to reach the ultimate object of their quest for God and their attainment unto Him, they would have but reached that abode which hath been raised up within their own hearts. How then could they ever hope to ascend unto such realms as have not been ordained for them or created for their station? Nay, though they journey from everlasting to everlasting, they will never attain unto Him Who is the midmost Heart of existence and the Axis of the entire creation, He on Whose right hand flow the seas of grandeur, on Whose left stream the rivers of might, and Whose court none can ever hope to reach, how much less His very abode! For He dwelleth in the ark of fire, speedeth, in the sphere of fire, through the ocean of fire, and moveth within the atmosphere of fire. How can he who hath been fashioned of contrary elements ever enter or even approach this fire? GDM#110 p074-075




Far, far from Thy glory be what mortal man can affirm of Thee, or attribute unto Thee, or the praise with which he can glorify Thee! Whatever duty Thou hast prescribed unto Thy servants of extolling to the utmost Thy majesty and glory is but a token of Thy grace unto them, that they may be enabled to ascend unto the station conferred upon their own inmost being, the station of the knowledge (irfan) of their own selves. GWB#001 p004-005, Ruhi5.2.5

Methinks that they imagine that Thy purpose in calling them to Thine all-highest horizon is to heighten the glory of Thy majesty and power. For had they been satisfied that Thou summonest them to that which will recreate their hearts and immortalize their souls, they would never have fled from Thy governance, nor deserted the shadow of the tree of Thy oneness. PM#116 p197-198
