



For a summary of the names of God from the New Testament see Dionysius in Rolt pp.61-62

I bear witness in Thy presence, O my God, that Thou art made known by Thy wondrous tokens and art recognized through the revelations of Thy signs.  SWB.197

Knowing God, therefore, means the comprehension and knowledge of His attributes and not of His Reality. And even this knowledge of His attributes extends only so far as human power and capacity permit, and remains wholly inadequate.... All that man can hope to achieve is to comprehend the attributes of the Divinity, the light of which is manifest and resplendent in the world and within the souls of men. SAQ#59.7 (was SAQ.221)

Therefore the meaning of Knowing (ma'rifat) in this noble Tradition is not and never has been the knowledge of the true nature of the Absolute for that is beyond the province of Possible Being. Rather it is the knowledge of the traces and effulgences of that Most Holy and Forbidden Mystery.... And so the meaning of Knowing in this Holy Tradition is recognizing the Manifestation of the Absolute in the holy Dawning-Places of Primal Unity, that is to say the Prophets and Holy Ones. Otherwise the true nature of Its Essence has never been nor will ever be knowable to any soul. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.32, MKT2:047)

It is clear, then, that the essential reality of God is revealed in His perfections; and the sun, with its perfections, reflected in a mirror, is a visible thing, an entity clearly expressing the bounty of God. SWAB#021 p050-051

...the question may be asked: How shall we know God? We know Him by His attributes. We know Him by His signs. We know Him by His names.... If we wish to come in touch with the reality of Divinity, we do so by recognizing its phenomena, its attributes and traces, which are widespread in the universe. All things in the world of phenomena are expressive of that one reality. Its lights are shining, its heat is manifest, its power is expressive, and its education, or training, resplendent everywhere. PUP.422

All that God's intimate servants may express of His knowledge (ma'rifat) is the knowledge of His creation ('ibda'), which is the divine appearance (tajalla) in the station of His dominion (mulk). This is the extent of knowledge which is possible in the contingent world. (the Bab, Tafsir al-Ha, provisional translation, AvK1.031)

As to names: though they appear to refer to that which is named, this is only at the level of creation. As for God, He is sanctified above all name and reference. Every name reacheth it highest consummation in the Most Exalted Word, and every attribute referreth to the Primal Will: Every soul that attaineth unto it hath attained and will ever attain unto all names. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.105)

Every mention by any soul returneth unto the Most Exalted Word, the highest Pearl which is the Primal Will and the Primal Point. Verily it is Thy first Revelation, Thy first Effulgence, which Thou hast created through its own Self and shed upon it Thy most glorious Name.... (From a prayer of Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.105-106)




Therefore the meaning of Knowing (ma'rifat) in this noble Tradition is not and never has been the knowledge of the true nature of the Absolute for that is beyond the province of Possible Being. Rather it is the knowledge of the traces and effulgences of that Most Holy and Forbidden Mystery.... And so the meaning of Knowing in this Holy Tradition is recognizing the Manifestation of the Absolute in the holy Dawning-Places of Primal Unity, that is to say the Prophets and Holy Ones. Otherwise the true nature of Its Essence has never been nor will ever be knowable to any soul. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.32, MKT2:047)

The door of the knowledge of the Ancient Being hath ever been, and will continue for ever to be, closed in the face of men. No man's understanding shall ever gain access unto His holy court. As a token of His mercy, however, and as a proof of His loving kindness, He hath manifested unto men the Day Stars of His divine guidance, the Symbols of His divine unity, and hath ordained the knowledge of these sanctified Beings to be identical with the knowledge of His own Self. Whoso recognizeth them hath recognized God.... Every one of them is the Way of God that connecteth this world with the realms above, and the Standard (mizan) of His Truth unto every one in the kingdoms of earth and heaven. They are the Manifestations of God amidst men, the evidences of His Truth, and the signs of His glory. GWB#021 p049-050, Ruhi1.3.12

Now, all created things tell of this light, partake of its rays, and receive their portion thereof, but the full splendour of the perfections, bounties, and attributes of the Divinity shines forth from the reality of the Perfect Man, that is, that unique Individual Who is the universal Manifestation of God. For the other beings have each received only a portion of that light, but the universal Manifestation of God is the mirror held before this Sun, and the latter manifests itself therein with all its perfections, attributes, signs, and effects. The knowledge of the reality of the Divinity is in no wise possible, but the knowledge of the Manifestations of God is the knowledge of God, for the bounties, splendours, and attributes of God are manifest in Them. Thus, whoso attains to the knowledge of the Manifestations of God attains to the knowledge of God... SAQ#59.8-9 (was SAQ.222)

Man's highest station, however, is attained through faith in God in every Dispensation and by acceptance of what hath been revealed by Him, and not through learning; inasmuch as in every nation there are learned men who are versed in divers sciences. Nor is it attainable through wealth; for it is similarly evident that among the various classes in every nation there are those possessed of riches. Likewise are other transitory things. True knowledge, therefore, is the knowledge of God, and this is none other than the recognition of His Manifestation in each Dispensation. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.256)

Whoso acknowledgeth belief in Him and in His signs and testimonies hath in truth acknowledged that which the Tongue of Grandeur uttered ere the creation of earth and heaven and the revelation of the Kingdom of Names. TB.047

By seeing God is meant beholding the Manifestation of Himself; for witnessing the sun in its entire splendor, in a clear glassy surface, is identical with witnessing the essence of the sun itself. TAB.204
