



The first Tajalli which hath dawned from the Day-Star of Truth is the knowledge (ma'arifat) of God - exalted be His glory. And the knowledge of the King of everlasting days can in no wise be attained save by recognizing Him Who is the Bearer of the Most Great Name.... Attainment unto the Divine Presence can be realized solely by attaining His presence.... TB.050

The beginning of all knowledge ('ilm) is the recognition ('irfan) of God. He who hath attained unto it hath attained unto all knowledge ('ulum).... Knowledge ('ilm) is the mirror of Oneness (ahadiyyah) within which is imprinted the known effulgences (tajalliyatu'l-'ilmiyyih) by the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA8.026)

A true philosopher would never deny God nor His evidences, rather would he acknowledge His glory and overpowering majesty which overshadow all created things.... Say: The beginning of Wisdom and the origin thereof is to acknowledge whatsoever God hath clearly set forth... TB.150-151

The source of all learning ('ulum) is the knowledge (irfan) of God, exalted be His Glory, and this cannot be attained save through the knowledge of His Divine Manifestation. TB.156

The beginning of all things is the knowledge (irfan) of God, and the end of all things is strict observance of whatsoever hath been sent down from the empyrean of the Divine Will that pervadeth all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth. GWB#002 p005, Ruhi3a.L15

Thou hast asked concerning the fundamentals of religion and its ordinances: Know thou that first and foremost in religion is the knowledge (ma'rifat) of God. This attaineth its consummation in the recognition of His divine unity (tawhid), which in turn reacheth its fulfilment in acclaiming that His hallowed and exalted Sanctuary, the Seat of His transcendent majesty, is sanctified from all attributes. And know thou that in this world of being the knowledge of God can never be attained save through the knowledge of Him Who is the Dayspring of divine Reality. SWB.117; GOH.244-245 (From the Dala'il-i-Sab'iy-i-Farsi. Cf. AvK1.014)

Know thou that the essence of religion is the knowledge of God. The perfection of this knowledge is belief in His unity (tawhid). The perfection of this belief is the negation of all names and attributes before His sanctified Essence. And the perfection of this negation is to immerse oneself with certain knowledge in the Ocean of oneness (ahadiyyah) and to witness one's attainment to its bounty. And the truth underlying all these stages is the Sign of God alone, whereby the existence of the Lord of might and glory is recognized and known with certitude. (The Bab, provisional translation, in the Sahifiy-i-'Adliyyih, GOH.230, AvK1.014)




...the portals of divine unity (tawhid) and understanding (ma'rifat)--the essential and highest purpose in creation... KI#028 p029

Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth therein, He, through the direct operation of His unconstrained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinction and capacity to know (ma'rifat) Him and to love Him - a capacity that must needs be regarded as the generating impulse and the primary purpose underlying the whole of creation. GWB#027 p065; Ruhi1.3.10

The mysteries of man's physical death and of his return have not been divulged, and still remain unread. By the righteousness of God! Were they to be revealed, they would evoke such fear and sorrow that some would perish, while others would be so filled with gladness as to wish for death.... Death proffereth unto every confident believer the cup that is life indeed. It bestoweth joy, and is the bearer of gladness. It conferreth the gift of everlasting life. As to those that have tasted of the fruit of man's earthly existence, which is the recognition of the one true God, exalted be His glory, their life hereafter is such as We are unable to describe. GWB#165 p345-346, Ruhi1.3.4

I testify that Thou hast created me, and nourished me, and brought me up, and fed me, and sustained me, that I may recognize Him Who is the Day-Spring of Thy signs, and the Revealer of Thy clear tokens. PM#139 p228

In the beginning God, through His Love, created Man. Man is the highest product of His Love, and the purpose of man's existence is to reflect this Love of God in his soul. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of 'Akka, p.20)

...the purpose of the creation of man is the knowledge (irfan) of the True One (haqq), and this knowledge is dependent upon the servants knowing their own selves - they who, through their own vision, and heart, and understanding, are incapable of comprehending the True One... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.014-015)

He who attaineth to My love hath title to a throne of gold, to sit thereon in honour over all the world; he who is deprived thereof, though he sit upon the dust, that dust would seek refuge with God, the Lord of all Religions. KA#036

There is no doubt whatsoever that all things in their primal reality have been created for the recognition of God. Whoso hath attained unto this station hath attained unto all good. Great indeed is this station, a greatness which, were it to be told in its entirety, all the pens of creation and the pages of the contingent world would be unequal to the task. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.015)

All men have been created for the recognition of the True One. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.027)

He hath called into being His creatures, that they may know Him, Who is the Compassionate, the All-Merciful. GWB#076 p144-145

Whatever, therefore, He saith unto you is wholly for the sake of God, that haply the peoples of the earth may cleanse their hearts from the stain of evil desire, may rend its veil asunder, and attain unto the knowledge of the one true God--the most exalted station to which any man can aspire. GWB#035 p085, Ruhi3a.L15

That life, however, which is mentioned in the Books of the Prophets and the Chosen Ones of God is the life of knowledge; that is to say, the servant's recognition of the sign of the splendours wherewith He Who is the Source of all splendour hath Himself invested him, and his certitude of attaining unto the presence of God through the Manifestations of His Cause. This is that blessed and everlasting life that perisheth not: whosoever is quickened thereby shall never die, but will endure as long as His Lord and Creator will endure. GDM#064 p047-048

The object of God's teaching to man is that man may know himself in order to comprehend the greatness of God. AL.080

The healer of all thine ills is remembrance of Me, forget it not. PHW#32, Ruhi2.1.6

We beseech God that He may graciously vouchsafe His grace unto all men, and enable them to attain the knowledge of Him and of themselves. GWB#100 p205, Ruhi3a.L15

Therefore it is necessary, according to true wisdom, that the Preexistent God describe Himself to His creatures, that they may recognize their Creator and that, out of the grace of the Pre-existent, the contingent beings may attain their supreme End. This divine self-description is itself a created thing. It is unlike any other description, the sign of 'He is the One Who hath no equal,' and the truth of the servant, his true being. Whoso hath recognized it hath recognized his Lord.... This description is denoted as the 'soul' or 'self', and he who hath known himself hath known his Lord. At other times, it is expressed as the heart, which is a description of the Divinity, by the Divinity, and is the essence of Servitude. It is the Sign of God shown by Him in the world and within the souls of men, that it may be revealed unto them that verily He is the Truth. Behold with the eye of thy heart. Verily thy truth, the truth of thy being, is the divinity of thy Lord revealed unto thee and through thee. Thou art He Himself, and He is thou thyself, except that indeed thou art that thou art, and He is that He is. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.251)

Man's highest station, however, is attained through faith in God in every Dispensation and by acceptance of what hath been revealed by Him, and not through learning; inasmuch as in every nation there are learned men who are versed in divers sciences. Nor is it attainable through wealth; for it is similarly evident that among the various classes in every nation there are those possessed of riches. Likewise are other transitory things. True knowledge, therefore, is the knowledge of God, and this is none other than the recognition of His Manifestation in each Dispensation. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.256)

True remembrance is to make mention of the Lord, the All-Praised, and forget aught else beside Him. TB.155

'O man', said he, 'you have understood aright. But why is it that "he who has recognized himself enters into the Good", as it was said in God's speech?' I answered, 'It is because the Father of all consists of Light and Life, and from him Man has sprung.' 'You are right', said he 'If then, being made of Life and Light, you learn to know that you are made of them, you will go back into Life and Light.' Thus spoke Poimandres. (Corpus Hermeticum, Lib. i:21, p. 125-127, W. Scott trans.)




The first Tajalli which hath dawned from the Day-Star of Truth is the knowledge (ma'arifat) of God - exalted be His glory. And the knowledge of the King of everlasting days can in no wise be attained save by recognizing Him Who is the Bearer of the Most Great Name.... Attainment unto the Divine Presence can be realized solely by attaining His presence.... TB.050

We have decreed, O people, that the highest and last end of all learning ('ulum) be the recognition (irfan) of Him Who is the Object of all knowledge; and yet, behold how ye have allowed your learning to shut you out, as by a veil, from Him Who is the Dayspring of this Light, through Whom every hidden thing hath been revealed. KA#102, ESW.129, GWB#098 p199

The source of all learning ('ulum) is the knowledge (irfan) of God, exalted be His Glory, and this cannot be attained save through the knowledge of His Divine Manifestation. TB.156

No man can obtain everlasting life, unless he embraceth the truth of this inestimable, this wondrous, and sublime Revelation. GWB#092 p183

The spirit that animateth the human heart is the knowledge (ma'arifat) of God, and its truest adorning is the recognition of the truth that 'He doeth whatsoever He willeth, and ordaineth that which He pleaseth.' Its raiment is the fear of God, and its perfection steadfastness in His Faith. GWB#134 p291

And if, confirmed by the Creator, the lover escapeth the claws of the eagle of love, he will enter the Realm of Knowledge (ma'rafat) and come out of doubt into certitude, and turn from the darkness of wayward desire to the guiding light of the fear of God. His inner eye will open and he will privily converse with his Beloved; he will unlock the gates of truth and supplication and shut the doors of idle fancy. CDB#2.23 (was SV.11)

Thou hast asked concerning the fundamentals of religion and its ordinances: Know thou that first and foremost in religion is the knowledge (ma'rifat) of God. This attaineth its consummation in the recognition of His divine unity (tawhid), which in turn reacheth its fulfilment in acclaiming that His hallowed and exalted Sanctuary, the Seat of His transcendent majesty, is sanctified from all attributes. And know thou that in this world of being the knowledge of God can never be attained save through the knowledge of Him Who is the Dayspring of divine Reality. SWB.117; GOH.244-245 (From the Dala'il-i-Sab'iy-i-Farsi. Cf. AvK1.014)

...actions alone are not sufficient: They are a body of the greatest beauty, but without a spirit. No, that which leads to everlasting life, eternal honour, universal enlightenment, and true success and salvation is, first and foremost, the knowledge [irfan] of God.... Second comes the love of God. The light of this love is kindled, through the knowledge of God, in the lamp of the heart, and its spreading rays illumine the world and bestow upon man the life of the Kingdom.... The third virtue of humanity is goodly intention, which is the foundation of all good deeds.... Briefly, good deeds become perfect and complete only after the knowledge of God has been acquired, the love of God has been manifested, and spiritual attractions and goodly motives have been attained. Otherwise, though good deeds be praiseworthy, if they do not spring from the knowledge of God, from the love of God, and from a sincere intention, they will be imperfect. SAQ#84.2-7 (was SAQ.300-302)

Religious principles have various degrees and stations. The root of all principles and the cornerstone of all foundations hath ever been, and shall remain, the recognition of God. And these days are indeed the vernal season of the recognition of the All-Merciful. Whatsoever proceedeth in this day from the Repository of His Cause and the Manifestation of His Self is, in truth, the fundamental principle unto which all must bear allegiance. TU.2#15

The lesser intellect being thus circumscribed, one must search after Him Who is the ultimate Source of knowledge and strive to recognize Him. And should one come to acknowledge that Source round Whom every mind doth revolve, then whatsoever He should ordain is the expression of the dictates of a consummate wisdom. His very Being, even as the sun, is distinct from all else beside Him. The whole duty of man is to recognize Him; once this hath been achieved, then whatsoever He may please to ordain is binding and in full accordance with the requirements of divine wisdom. Thus have ordinances and prohibitions of every kind been laid down by the Prophets of the past, even unto the earliest times. TU.2#23

The universal criterion is that which hath just been mentioned. Whosoever attaineth thereunto, that is, who recognizeth and acknowledgeth the Dawning-place of God's Revelation, will be recorded in the Book of God among them that are endued with understanding. Otherwise he is naught but an ignorant soul, though he believe himself to be possessed of every wisdom. TU.2#29

The beginning of all utterance is the worship of God, and this followeth upon His recognition. TU.3#04

The foundation of the belief of the people of Baha ... is this: His holiness the exalted One (the Bab) is the Manifestation of the unity and oneness of God and the Forerunner of the Ancient Beauty (Baha'u'llah). His holiness, the Abha Beauty (Baha'u'llah) ... is the supreme Manifestation of God and the Day-Spring of His most divine Essence. All others are servants unto Him and do His bidding. WOB.128, WOB.133, WT.019, Ruhi8.1.33, Ruhi4.2.10

Know thou that the essence of religion is the knowledge of God. The perfection of this knowledge is belief in His unity (tawhid). The perfection of this belief is the negation of all names and attributes before His sanctified Essence. And the perfection of this negation is to immerse oneself with certain knowledge in the Ocean of oneness (ahadiyyah) and to witness one's attainment to its bounty. And the truth underlying all these stages is the Sign of God alone, whereby the existence of the Lord of might and glory is recognized and known with certitude. (The Bab, provisional translation, in the Sahifiy-i-'Adliyyih, GOH.230, AvK1.014)

The purpose of creation hath ever been and will ever be the recognition of the True One; and this recognition is dependent upon the recognition of the servants themselves, through their own vision, their own heart and their own innate nature, of the one true God. Imitation is insufficient, whether it inclineth towards or against. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.014-015)

All men have been created for the recognition of the True One. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.027)

Know thou for a certainty that whoso disbelieveth in God (lan tajid 'indihi al-diyanat; i.e. "whoso hath not religiosity") is neither trustworthy (al-imanat) nor truthful (al-sidq). This, indeed, is the truth, the undoubted truth. He that acteth treacherously towards God will, also, act treacherously towards his king. Nothing whatever can deter such a man from evil, nothing can hinder him from betraying his neighbor, nothing can induce him to walk uprightly. GWB#114 p232-233; SLH.5#060 cf. "...those are not at all to be tolerated who deny the being of a God. Promises, covenants, and oaths, which are the bonds of human society, can have no hold upon an atheist. The taking away of God, though but even in thought, dissolves all..." John Locke, A Letter Concerning Toleration. Alternate: "Those who deny the existence of the Deity are not to be tolerated at all. Promises, covenant and oaths, which are the bonds of human society, can have no hold upon or sanctity for an atheist." also cf. Today, whosoever hath turned unto the most exalted horizon and attained unto the recognition of God, exalted be His glory, he verily was and is truthful. BH04901

Unless one recognize God and love Him, his cry shall not be heard by God in this Day. This is of the essence of His Faith, did ye but know it. GWB#135 p293

It is clear that this knowledge [of God] takes precedence over every other knowledge and constitutes the greatest virtue of the human world. For the understanding of the reality of things confers a material advantage in the realm of being and brings about the progress of outward civilization, but the knowledge of God is the cause of spiritual progress and attraction, true vision and insight, the exaltation of humanity, the appearance of divine civilization, the rectification of morals, and the illumination of the conscience. SAQ#84.2 (was SAQ.300); Ruhi5.3.5

For it is the height of evil not to know God; but to be capable of knowing God, and to wish and hope to know him, is the road which leads straight to the Good; and it is an easy road to travel. Everywhere God will come to meet you, everywhere he will appear to you, at places and times at which you look not for it, in your waking hours and in your sleep, when you are journeying by water and by land, in the night-time and in the day-time, when you are speaking and when you are silent; for there is nothing which is not God. (Corpus Hermeticum, Lib. xi:21b, p. 223, W. Scott trans.)

For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life. John 3:16

No man can "obtain everlasting life" in the full sense of the term, except through acknowledging the Manifestations of God, in this age, Baha'u'llah. If he doesn't do it in this world he will have a chance to progress in the next one. (19 March 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




The door of the knowledge of the Ancient of Days being thus closed in the face of all beings, the Source of infinite grace ... hath caused those luminous Gems of Holiness to appear out of the realms of the spirit, in the noble form of the human temple, and be made manifest unto all men, that they may impart unto the world the mysteries of the unchangeable Being, and tell of the subtleties of His Imperishable Essence. KI#106 p099, GWB#019 p047, WOB.113

The Prophets and Messengers of God have been sent down for the sole purpose of guiding mankind to the straight Path of Truth. The purpose underlying their revelation hath been to educate all men, that they may, at the hour of death, ascend, in the utmost purity and sanctity and with absolute detachment, to the throne of the Most High. The light which these souls radiate is responsible for the progress of the world and the advancement of its peoples. They are like unto leaven which leaveneth the world of being, and constitute the animating force through which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest. GWB#081 p156-157

...unless we practice the Teachings we cannot possibly expect the Faith to grow, because the fundamental purpose of all religions - including our own - is to bring man nearer to God, and to change his character, which is of the utmost importance. Too much emphasis is often laid on the social and economic aspects of the Teachings; but the moral aspect cannot be overemphasized. LG#1701 (6 Sep. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

If any man were to meditate on that which the Scriptures, sent down from the heaven of God's holy Will, have revealed, he would readily recognize that their purpose is that all men shall be regarded as one soul, so that the seal bearing the words "The Kingdom shall be God's" may be stamped on every heart, and the light of Divine bounty, of grace, and mercy may envelop all mankind. GWB#122 p260, Ruhi1.3.13

What is religion? Religion is connection with God. There is one God. There is but one possibility for connection. ABU1484
