



There is no doubt that the completeness seen in each and every thing arises, by divine creation, from the component elements, their appropriate combination, their proportionate measure, the manner of their composition, and the influence of other created things. For all beings are linked together like a chain; and mutual aid, assistance, and interaction are among their intrinsic properties and are the cause of their formation, development, and growth. It is established through numerous proofs and arguments that every single thing has an effect and influence upon every other, either independently or through a causal chain. SAQ#46.6 (was SAQ.178-179)

The one true God hath everlastingly existed, and will everlastingly continue to exist. His creation, likewise, hath had no beginning, and will have no end. All that is created, however, is preceded by a cause. This fact, in itself, establisheth, beyond the shadow of a doubt, the unity (tawhid) of the Creator. GWB#082 p162

Such as communicate the generating influence and such as receive its impact are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His Word are but the creatures and the effects thereof.... Every thing must needs have an origin and every building a builder. Verily, the Word of God is the Cause which hath preceded the contingent world -- a world which is adorned with the splendours of the Ancient of Days, yet is being renewed and regenerated at all times. Immeasurably exalted is the God of Wisdom Who hath raised this sublime structure. TB.140-141

All things must needs have a cause, a motive power, an animating principle. These souls and symbols of detachment have provided, and will continue to provide, the supreme moving impulse in the world of being. GWB#081 p157

As we, however, reflect with broad minds upon this infinite universe, we observe that motion without a motive force, and an effect without a cause are both impossible; that every being has come to exist under numerous influences and continually undergoes reaction.  These influences, too, are formed under the action of still other influences... Forel.18

Every cause is followed by an effect and vice versa; there could be no effect without a cause preceding it.... Motion without a mover or cause of motion is inconceivable... PUP.307-308

...composition is an effect, and philosophically no effect is conceivable without causation.  No effect can be conceived of without some primal cause. PUP.424

Know of a certainty that every visible thing has a cause.  For instance, this table is made by a carpenter; its originator is the carpenter. Therefore as such objects are not self created, they are not in the nature of things eternal; but need an auxiliary-transforming force, although in their essence they are very ancient in time; but their ancient and eternal existence is not due to the temporary form. ADP.106-107

A rational proof for the immortality of the spirit is this, that no effect can be produced by a non-existent thing; that is, it is impossible that any effect should appear from absolute nothingness. For the effect of a thing is secondary to its existence, and that which is secondary is conditioned upon the existence of that which is primary. SAQ#60.5 (was SAQ.225)

Magnified be the name of Him Who hath created, and is the Cause of, these causes, Who hath ordained that every change and variation in the world of being be made dependent upon them. GWB#082 p160

We have ordained for every thing a cause, and vouchsafed unto it an effect. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Tibb, AvK1.122, Majmu'iy-i-Alvah p.224)

We have assigned to every end a means for its accomplishment; avail yourselves thereof, and place your trust and confidence in God, the Omniscient, the All-Wise. KA#160




...composition is an effect, and philosophically no effect is conceivable without causation.  No effect can be conceived of without some primal cause. PUP.424




...the condition of causation is the mode of association, resemblance, and utterance in relation to the effect. This, however, is both impossible and forbidden in the realm of Utter Essence... (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.191)

The advocates of the doctrine of the unity of existence are joining partners with God by virtue of the testimony of the idea of existence itself. For the "unity" affirmed by them is derivative of the existence of duality; otherwise why would they deny the duality and affirm the unity? Likewise, those who advocate that the cause of the existence of the contingent beings is the Essence of God, and thus believe in some form of relation between the two, are disbelievers. For causation is dependent on the association with the effect, and relation is dependent on the existence of duality, whereas both conditions are utterly false. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.191-192)

Verily God hath intended by these exalted words to sanctify His Essence utterly from any attribute of causation, refuting the views of those who have considered the Essence to be the Cause of all causes. For, verily, that Cause is His Handiwork, and that Handiwork is not preceded by any cause, to such an extent that the tongue of His favoured ones repeatedly addressed this absence of causation by the Essence. Had it been the Essence that was also the Cause, this would have required association and resemblance. Yet exalted and glorified then be God! He hath fashioned the Will from nothingness, through Itself, and ordained It to be the Cause of all that is other than It, with no descent of anything from His Essence unto the Will. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.192)
