



Existence is of two kinds: one is the existence of God which is beyond the comprehension of man. He, the invisible, the lofty and the incomprehensible, is preceded by no cause but rather is the Originator of the cause of causes. He, the Ancient, hath had no beginning and is the all-independent. The second kind of existence is the human existence. It is a common existence, comprehensible to the human mind, is not ancient, is dependent and hath a cause to it. The mortal substance does not become eternal and vice-versa; the human kind does not become a Creator and vice-versa. The transformation (qalaba) of the innate substance (mahiyat) is impossible. SWAB#139 p061, SW v11#10 p159

Question: "Will the day come when all mankind will be able to discern by sight?"         He said: "There will always be some. Only a special number will have this attainment. As Christ said, 'Many are called, but few are chosen.' [Mat 22:14] It will always be so. The transformation depends upon divine bounty. The mineral progresses in its own world. But from the mineral to the vegetable it progresses only by divine bounty. Of itself the transformation cannot take place. In the realm of men transformation is possible only through another person." SW v13#06 p143 (pilgrim notes of Anna Kunz)

...every created thing has been assigned a degree which it can in no wise overpass. So he who occupies the degree of servitude, no matter how far he may progress and acquire endless perfections, can never reach the degree of divine Lordship. The same holds true of all other created things. No matter how far a mineral may progress, it can never acquire the power of growth in the mineral kingdom. No matter how far this flower may progress, it can never manifest the power of sensation while it is in the vegetable kingdom. So this silver mineral can never gain sight or hearing; at most it can progress in its own degree and become a perfect mineral, but it cannot acquire the power of growth or sensation and can never become living: It can only progress in its own degree. SAQ#62.2 (was SAQ.230)

...as the human spirit continues after death, it must either advance or decline, and in the next world to cease to advance is the same as to decline. But the human spirit never transcends its own degree: It progresses only within that degree. For example, no matter how far the spirit and reality of Peter may progress, it will never reach the degree of the reality of Christ but will progress only within its own inherent limits. Thus, you see that however much this mineral may progress, its progress remains within its own degree; you cannot possibly bring this crystal, for example, to a state where it gains the power of sight. SAQ#63.2-3 (was SAQ.233)

...after the noblest stations in the world of humanity have been attained, further progress can be made only in the degrees of perfection, not in station, for the degrees are finite but the divine perfections are infinite. SAQ#64.5 (was SAQ.237)

The soul does not evolve from degree to degree as a law - it only evolves nearer to God, by the Mercy and Bounty of God. PT#20:15 p066

...progress becomes possible only through grace, because the progress from one rank to another depends entirely upon divine generosity... For example, the progress of a mineral reality to the rank of a vegetable is to be obtained only through generosity... BSC#954 p.494 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The [animal] spirit will not become human spirit, nor will vegetable spirit become animal spirit. Existence is one, as it appears in every grade, according to the exigency of that grade. (Pilgrim notes of Myron Phelps, ca. 1917, p. 2)

As to progress after death: know that after death it is the divine world. Progress is possible, but it depends upon the generosity of God, and not upon the efforts and struggles of man. In other words, progress becomes possible only through grace, because the progress from one rank to another depends entirely upon divine generosity, whereas on the contrary, progress toward perfection is obtainable through man's effort. For example, the progress of a mineral reality to the rank of a vegetable is to be obtained only through generosity; likewise the passage of a vegetable reality to the rank of animal reality to the rank of the human is also due to mercy and generosity; likewise the passage of a human reality to the world of the Kingdom depends entirely upon generosity. What I mean to say is this: that the passage from one rank to another depends wholly upon grace, whereas the acquiring of perfections is dependent upon man's efforts and struggles. Take mankind: God created man from the mineral enabled him to attain to his present station; now by his efforts and struggles, he can acquire human perfections and seek to increase in virtue and purity. It is therefore clear that the passage from one rank to a higher rank depends entirely on generosity, whereas the acquiring of virtues is possible through effort and will-power. In consequence, after the passage through this corporeal world into the divine world, the traversing of ranks is possible, but only through the grace and bounty of God. BSC#954 p.494 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The outward is the symbol of the inward. No matter how far each of the different species may progress, it will never reach the rank above its own. For instance, no matter how much the mineral may develop, it will not attain to the power of growth within the vegetable kingdom. Likewise, no matter how far the vegetable may evolve, it will never develop the sense of feeling. Similarly, no matter how much an animal be trained and developed, it will never achieve the reasoning power of the mind. Thus, it hath become evident that each and every created thing doth possess a particular station within which it advanceth. Similarly, every human being hath a spiritual station, and doth progress in its own station and rank. The one who is stunt of mind, no matter how intense a discipline he may endure, no matter how diligently he may strive, and how regenerated he may become, he will never attain to the station of the Daysprings of Revelation and the Dawning-Places of Inspiration. The bitter tree will never become a lofty palm tree, and the colocynth will never bear sweet fruit. (Provisional translation, AB01205)




The change and transformation of conditions, and the succession and revolution of ages, are among the essential requirements of the contingent world, and essential requirements cannot be separated from the reality of things. Thus it is impossible to separate heat from fire, or wetness from water, or the rays from the sun, for these are essential requirements. And since change and transformation are among the requirements of all contingent things, the commandments of God are also changed in accordance with the changing times. For example, in the days of Moses, that which was required by and consonant with the conditions prevailing at that time was the Mosaic Law. However, in the days of Christ, those conditions had so changed as to render the Mosaic Law unsuited and ill-adapted to the needs of mankind, and it was therefore abrogated.... Now, this change, alteration, and abrogation was due to the fact that the age of Christ could not be compared to that of Moses. The conditions and requirements had entirely changed, and the former commandments were therefore abrogated. SAQ#20.2-3 (was SAQ.093-094)

These changes are due to the transformation of thoughts, customs, and conditions, and without them the well-being of the human world would be disrupted. SAQ#20.7 (was SAQ.096)

The phenomenal beings, which are captives of limitations, are ever subject to transformation and change in condition. PUP.172

Transformation from condition to condition is the attribute of contingent realities. PUP.174

...each created material being is possessed of a form; it cannot possess two forms at the same time....  In the spiritual reality of man, however, all geometrical figures can be simultaneously conceived, while in physical realities one image must be forsaken in order that another may be possible. This is the law of change and transformation, and change and transformation are precursors of mortality. PUP.242

Note thou carefully that in this world of being, all things must ever be made new. Look at the material world about thee, see how it hath now been renewed. SWAB#023 p052

It [the world of creation] calls for change and transformation. Without change there can be no composition or development. Change and transformation, decomposition and composition produce opposites. (Mahmud's Diary, 4 May 1912, p. 79)

But a contingent reality which is perpetuated by the fullness of existence, will then suffer no corruption, and will thus become a divine reality, for the accidental reality is only distinguished from the existent reality by its subjection to corruption. For transformation is an essential necessity to every contingent reality, and this is what the mature wisdom has deemed advisable. SW v07#19 p.190

'That which hath been in existence had existed before, but not in the form thou seest today.' [TB p140] From this blessed verse it is clear and evident that the universe (kawn) is evolving (tarraqi). In the opinion of the philosophers and the wise this fact of the development and evolution of the world of existence is also established. That is to say, it is progressively transferred from one state to another. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA2.068-069, in Brown (2001), 85)

God has created all earthly things under a law of progression in material degrees, but He has created man and endowed him with powers of advancement toward spiritual and transcendental kingdoms. PUP.302

...every part of the universe is connected with every other part by ties that are very powerful and admit of no imbalance, nor any slackening whatever.... Physical bodies are transferred past one barrier after another, from one life to another, and all things are subject to transformation and change, save only the essence of existence itself - since it is constant and immutable, and upon it is founded the life of every species and kind, of every contingent reality throughout the whole of creation. SWAB#137 p157

...each elemental atom of the universe is possessed of a capacity to express all the virtues of the universe.  This is a subtle and abstract realization. Meditate upon it, for within it lies the true explanation of pantheism. From this point of view and perception pantheism is a truth, for every atom in the universe possesses or reflects all the virtues of life, the manifestation of which is effected through change and transformation. PUP.285-286

Those matters of major importance which constitute the foundation of the Law of God are explicitly recorded in the Text, but subsidiary laws are left to the House of Justice. The wisdom of this is that the times never remain the same, for change is a necessary quality and an essential attribute of this world, and of time and place. Therefore the House of Justice will take action accordingly. Ruhi8.1.31 (Abdu'l-Baha, quoted in a letter of the House of Justice dated 27 May 1966)
