



The body of man, which has been formed gradually, must similarly be decomposed gradually. This is according to the real and natural order and divine law.... the divine order formulated by the heavenly ordinance is that after death, this body shall be transferred from one stage to another different from the preceding one, so that according to the relations which exist in the world, it may gradually combine and mix other elements, thus going through stages until it arrives in the vegetable kingdom... SW v11#19 p317, LG#669 (Abdu'l-Baha)

This body has grown into its present form by the slow process of evolution, and it must be disintegrated by the same process. (Diary letter of Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, 14 Oct. 1914)

And just as the composition, the formation, and growth and development of the physical body have come about by degrees, so too must its decomposition and dispersal be gradual. If the disintegration be rapid, this will cause an overlapping and a slackening in the chain of transferences,and this discontinuity will impair the universal relationships within the chain of created things. (Abdu'l-Baha, Tablet on cremation, in Summon up Remembrance, p.174, quoted here)




And just as the composition, the formation, and growth and development of the physical body have come about by degrees, so too must its decomposition and dispersal be gradual. If the disintegration be rapid, this will cause an overlapping and a slackening in the chain of transferences,and this discontinuity will impair the universal relationships within the chain of created things. (Abdu'l-Baha, Tablet on cremation, in Summon up Remembrance, p.174, quoted here)




The Lord hath decreed that the dead should be interred in coffins made of crystal, of hard, resistant stone, or of wood that is both fine and durable, and that graven rings should be placed upon their fingers.... If the following verse, which hath at this moment been sent down by God, be engraved upon the burial-rings of both men and women, it shall be better for them; We, of a certainty, are the Supreme Ordainer: "I came forth from God, and return unto Him, detached from all save Him, holding fast to His Name, the Merciful, the Compassionate." KA#128-129

...just as the composition, the formation, and growth and development of the physical body have come about by degrees, so too must its decomposition and dispersal be gradual. If the disintegration be rapid, this will cause an overlapping and a slackening in the chain of transferences,and this discontinuity will impair the universal relationships within the chain of created things.... In short, the composition and decomposition, the gathering and scattering and journeying of all creatures must proceed according to the natural order, divine rule and the most great law of God, so that no marring nor impairment may affect the essential relationships which arise out of the inner realities of created things. This is why,according to the law of God, we are bidden to bury the dead. (Abdu'l-Baha, authorized translation, in "The Wisdom of Burying the Dead")
