



The knowledge or touching of the Good is the greatest thing.... We are taught about it by comparisons and negations and knowledge of the things which come from it and certain methods of ascent by degrees, but we are put on the way to it by purifications and virtues and adornings and by gaining footholds in the intelligible and settling ourselves firmly there and feasting on its contents. But whoever has become at once contemplator of himself and all the rest and object of his contemplation, and ... no longer looks at it from outside--when he becomes this he is near, and that Good is next above him, and already close by shining upon all the intelligible world. It is there that one lets all study go... but is carried out of it by the surge of the wave of Intellect itself and lifted on high by a kind of swell and sees suddenly, not seeing how, but the vision fills his eyes with light and does not make him see something else by it, but the light itself is what he sees... Plotinus, Enn.VI.7.36         ...our awareness of that One is not by way of reasoned knowledge or of intellectual perception, as with other intelligible things, but by way of a presence superior to knowledge.... Therefore, Plato says, 'it cannot be spoken or written', but we speak and write impelling towards it and wakening from reasonings to the vision of it.... For teaching goes as far as the road and the traveling, but the vision is the task of someone who has already resolved to see. Enn.VI.9.3




By the power of the Holy Spirit, working through his soul, man is able to perceive the Divine reality of things. All great works of art and science are witness to this power of the Spirit. The same Spirit gives Eternal Life. Those alone who are baptized by the Divine Spirit will be enabled to bring all peoples into the bond of unity. PT#28:7-9 p085

The power of the Holy Spirit, enlightening man's intelligence, has enabled him to discover means of bending many natural laws to his will... PT#09:18 p037

...without the Holy Spirit he would have no intellect, he would be unable to acquire his scientific knowledge by which his great influence over the rest of creation is gained. The illumination of the Holy Spirit gives to man the power of thought, and enables him to make discoveries by which he bends the laws of nature to his will. PT#17:10 p059

It is the light of the intellect which give us knowledge and understanding, and without this light the physical eyes would be useless. This light of the intellect is the highest light that exists, for it is born of the Light Divine. PT#22:3-4 p069

When man allows the spirit, through his soul, to enlighten his understanding, then does he contain all Creation......man, being the culmination of all that went before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains all the lower world within himself. Illumined by the spirit through the instrumentality of the soul, man's radiant intelligence makes him the crowning-point of Creation. PT#31:4-5 p096-097

The influence of the wisest philosophers, without this Spirit Divine, has been comparatively unimportant, however extensive their learning and deep their scholarship. PT#51:4 p164

Although a man may progress in science and philosophy, if he does not take advantage of the power of the spirit, he is incomplete. ADP.089

Knowledge and sciences are like water gathered from pools and cisterns for the irrigation of the soil; the confirmations of God are like rainfalls and showers. Why should one gather from pools when the pure water is obtainable? Unless one's mind be concentrated on the Cause, one can not receive assistance from God. (Pilgrim notes of George Winterburn, Table Talks with Abdul-Baha in February 1904, pp. 5-6)

The deepest wisdom which the sages have uttered, the profoundest learning which any mind hath unfolded, the arts which the ablest hands have produced, the influence exerted by the most potent of rulers, are but manifestations of the quickening power released by His [Christ's] transcendent, His all-pervasive, and resplendent Spirit. GWB#036 p085-086




Amongst the people is he whose learning hath made him proud, and who hath been debarred thereby from recognizing My Name, the Self-Subsisting; who, when he heareth the tread of sandals following behind him, waxeth greater in his own esteem than Nimrod. Say: O rejected one! Where now is his abode? By God, it is the nethermost fire. KA#041

We have decreed, O people, that the highest and last end of all learning ('ulum) be the recognition (irfan) of Him Who is the Object of all knowledge; and yet, behold how ye have allowed your learning to shut you out, as by a veil, from Him Who is the Dayspring of this Light, through Whom every hidden thing hath been revealed. KA#102, ESW.129, GWB#098 p199

Baha'u'llah has said that learning can be the veil between the soul of man and the eternal truth; in other words, between man and knowledge of God. We have seen that many people who become very advanced in the study of modern physical sciences are led to deny God, and to deny His Prophets. That does not mean that God and the Prophets have not and do not exist. It only means that knowledge has become a veil between their hearts and the light of God. LG#1822 (22 Apr. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




And every branch of learning, conjoined with the love of God, is approved and worthy of praise; but bereft of His love, learning is barren -- indeed, it bringeth on madness. Every kind of knowledge, every science, is as a tree: if the fruit of it be the love of God, then is it a blessed tree, but if not, that tree is but dried-up wood, and shall only feed the fire. SWAB#154 p181, Ruhi6.1.28, Ruhi8.1.40

How vast the number of people who are well versed in every science, yet it is their adherence to the holy Word of God which will determine their faith, inasmuch as the fruit of every science is none other than the knowledge of divine precepts and submission unto His good-pleasure. SWB.088

Briefly, good deeds become perfect and complete only after the knowledge of God has been acquired, the love of God has been manifested, and spiritual attractions and goodly motives have been attained. Otherwise, though good deeds be praiseworthy, if they do not spring from the knowledge of God, from the love of God, and from a sincere intention, they will be imperfect. SAQ#84.7 (was SAQ.302)

Training in morals and good conduct is far more important than book learning. A child that is cleanly, agreeable, of good character, well-behaved -- even if ignorant -- is preferable to a child that is rude, unwashed, ill-natured, and yet becoming deeply versed in all the sciences and arts.... If, however, the child be trained to be both learned and good, the result is light upon light. SWAB#110 p135-136, Ruhi3a.1.1

All things are beneficial if joined with the love of God; and without His love all things are harmful, and act as a veil between man and the Lord of the Kingdom. When His love is there, every bitterness turneth sweet, and every bounty rendereth a wholesome pleasure. SWAB#154 p181, Ruhi6.1.28, Ruhi8.1.40




The first and most important qualification of a Baha'i Teacher is, indeed, unqualified loyalty and attachment to the Cause. Knowledge is, of course essential; but compared to devotion it is secondary in importance. DG#186 (14 Nov. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
