



Reveal then Thyself, O Lord, by Thy merciful utterance and the mystery of Thy divine being, that the holy ecstasy of prayer may fill our souls - a prayer that shall rise above words and letters and transcend the murmur of syllables and sounds - that all things may be merged into nothingness before the revelation of Thy splendor. BP.071 (Abdu'l-Baha)

How great the multitude of truths which the garment of words can never contain! How vast the number of such verities as no expression can adequately describe, whose significance can never be unfolded, and to which not even the remotest allusions can be made! How manifold are the truths which must remain unuttered until the appointed time is come! Even as it hath been said: "Not everything that a man knoweth can be disclosed, nor can everything that he can disclose be regarded as timely, nor can every timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity of those who hear it." Of these truths some can be disclosed only to the extent of the capacity of the repositories of the light of Our knowledge.. GWB#089 p176 (cf. Hadith of Ja'far as-Sadiq; see Resurrection and Renewal, pp. 56-57; quoted in BB00511)

The fish trap exists because of the fish; once you've gotten the fish, you can forget the trap. The rabbit snare exists because of the rabbit; once you've gotten the rabbit, you can forget the snare. Words exist because of meaning; once you've gotten the meaning, you can forget the words. (Chuang Tzu, Basic Writings, p. 140)

All language has taken an oath to fail to describe Him; any attempt to do so is the height of arrogance. (Meister Eckhardt)




How great the multitude of truths which the garment of words can never contain! How vast the number of such verities as no expression can adequately describe, whose significance can never be unfolded, and to which not even the remotest allusions can be made! How manifold are the truths which must remain unuttered until the appointed time is come! Even as it hath been said: "Not everything that a man knoweth can be disclosed, nor can everything that he can disclose be regarded as timely, nor can every timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity of those who hear it." Of these truths some can be disclosed only to the extent of the capacity of the repositories of the light of Our knowledge.. GWB#089 p176 (cf. Hadith of Ja'far as-Sadiq; see Resurrection and Renewal, pp. 56-57; quoted in BB00511)

As the Law of Generosity enacted upon all who are in the heavens and on earth hath been set to the level of their comprehension and rank, know thou that unto the wayfarer who journeys to God and migrates to Him, detaching himself from this transitory abode, seeking to ascend to the eternal home, shall be revealed hidden mysteries and well-guarded truths; The essence of unity and the manifestations of eternal might shall appear to him. And if he arrives at that most exalted station and transcendent home it behooveth him to be entrusted with the treasures of the knowledge of God, and to be the keeper of the pearls of His wisdom. It behooveth the wayfarer to guard this knowledge deposited in the receptacles of enlightened hearts by God the creator of mankind, to protect it as his eyes, and to conceal it in his breast. Were he to reveal one letter of these secrets other than to those who are worthy, he shall have perpetuated three serious crimes. The first is betrayal inasmuch as he hath betrayed God by exposing His mysteries to those unsuited to hear them. The second is injustice inasmuch as he conferred this station upon one who doth not deserve it, and weighed him down with an unbearable load he cannot carry. Therefore the verdict of oppressor hath been pronounced upon such a wayfarer; and what oppression can be greater than this? The third is murder because he misled this wretched one and killed him by killing his faith, inasmuch as he was unable to comprehend this divine knowledge, his feet slipped from whence he had progressed in the Cause of his Origin and Return. Therefore it can truly be said of him that he has been killed, and the punishment for such shall be imposed upon his killer. (provis. trans. from a Tablet of Baha'u'llah, in Safiniy-i-'Irfan, vol. 12, pp. 16-17)

For them that have attained (to union with God) there is nothing (necessary) except the eye (of the spirit) and the lamp (of intuitive faith): they have no concern with indications (to guide them) or with a road (to travel by). If the man that is united (with God) has mentioned some indication, he has mentioned (it) in order that the dialecticians may understand (his meaning). For a newborn child the father makes babbling sounds, though his intellect may make a survey of the (whole) world.... For the sake of teaching that tongue-tied (child), one must go outside of one's own language (customary manner of speech). You must come into (adopt) his language, in order that he may learn knowledge and science from you. All the people, then, are as his [the spiritual masters] children: this (fact) is necessary for the Pir [the master] (to bear in mind) when he gives (them) instruction. (Rumi, Mathnavi, II, 3312 ff., in Chittick, Sufi Doctrine of Rumi, p. 38)
