



Roll not up, O my Lord, what hath been spread out in Thy name, and extinguish not the lamp which Thine own fire hath lit. Withhold not, O my Lord, the water that is life indeed from running down - the water from whose murmuring the wondrous melodies which extol and glorify Thee can be heard. Deny not, moreover, Thy servants the sweet fragrance of the breath which hath been wafted through Thy love. PM#047 p069-070

...he would, at one time discover that from this Pen there floweth out unto all created things the water that is life indeed.... At another time he would find that there proceedeth from this Pen such fire as Thine own Revelation can kindle... PM#176 p281

...make of my prayer a fire that will burn away the veils which have shut me out from Thy beauty, and a light that will lead me unto the ocean of Thy Presence.... Make my prayer, O my Lord, a fountain of living waters whereby I may live as long as Thy sovereignty endureth... PM#183 p317-318, Ruhi1.2.2 (first sentence), Ruhi1.2.6 (last sentence)

The Spirit will come to you with increasing force, for your being must become as a Temple in which the Truth of God can dwell.... Your faith comes like rain; the first drops are far between, but soon it will pour in torrents....The knowledge of God rises in the heart like the sun; it mounts, mounts, always casting an immortal Light. You must be re-born by the Spirit. A child in the womb has eyes and ears, but only learns their use when it is born. A man cannot comprehend the Spirit before he has put aside earthly things. ... The Spirit resembles a rivulet when the earth fills the soul. Put away the terrestrial, and the Mighty Torrent of Living Water will rush through your freed body. BC#181 (Words of Abdu'l-Baha to Miss Barney, Oct. 19th to 24th, 1900)

Meditate on this, that thou mayest drink in the waters of everlasting life which flow through the words of the Lord of all mankind, and mayest testify that the one true God hath ever been immeasurably exalted above His creatures. GWB#160 p338

This is the Day whereon the true servants of God partake of the life-giving waters of reunion, the Day whereon those that are nigh unto Him are able to drink of the soft-flowing river of immortality, and they who believe in His unity, the wine of His Presence... GWB#014 p033

This is the Day when the rushing waters of everlasting life have gushed out of the Will of the All-Merciful. GWB#014 p030

Some were guided by the Light of God, gained admittance into the court of His presence, and quaffed, from the hand of resignation, the waters of everlasting life... GWB#076 p145

Whoso hath tasted of this Fountain hath attained unto everlasting Life, and whoso hath refused to drink therefrom is even as the dead. GWB#085 p169

The Hand of Divine bounty proffereth unto you the Water of Life. Hasten and drink your fill. Whoso hath been re-born in this Day, shall never die; whoso remaineth dead, shall never live. GWB#106 p213; TU.1#06

Give me to drink of the river that is life indeed, whose waters have streamed forth from the Paradise (Ridvan) in which the throne of Thy Name, the All-Merciful, was established... PM#002 p004

O Thou ... the words of Whose mouth are as the waters of life unto all who are in heaven and on earth! PM#010 p013

Give us, then, to drink from the hands of Thy grace every day and every moment of our lives of the waters that are life indeed. PM#031 p037

Give them to drink, O my Lord, from the hands of Thy graciousness the waters of Thine eternity. PM#045 p066

Thou hast made known unto Thy servants this Day whereon the river that is life indeed hath flowed forth from the fingers of Thy bounty... PM#176 p273

He is the one that will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life... SWAB#003 p013

...from their Fire the fire hath appeared in the universe and hath spoken in the Blessed Branch of Unity, ... from their Waters thou findest every soul living and immortal. BSC#387 p.207, La'aliyu'l-Hikmat, vol. 1, p. 60 (Baha'u'llah)

For Ibn 'Arabi, the most appropriate symbol of Life is afforded by 'water'. Water is the ground of all natural elements, and it flows and penetrates into even the narrowest corners of the world. 'The secret of Life has diffused into water'. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 148)




I am, O my God, but a tiny seed which Thou hast sown in the soil of Thy love, and caused to spring forth by the hand of Thy bounty. This seed craveth, therefore, in its inmost being, for the waters of Thy mercy and the living fountain of Thy grace. PM#106 p178

Quench the thirst of heedlessness with the sanctified waters of My grace... GWB#153 p323

And yet I beseech Thee ... to give me to drink of the wine of Thy mercy and of the pure beverage of Thy favor... PM#056 p082

Since Thou hast guided them, O my Lord, unto the living waters of Thy grace, grant, by Thy bounty, that they may not be kept back from Thee... PM#071 p117-118

Grant, then, O my God, that Thy servant ... may be enabled to partake of the living waters of Thy mercy and grace. PM#075 p124

He who was athirst, O my Lord, hath hasted to attain the living waters of Thy grace, and the wretched creature hath yearned to immerse himself beneath the ocean of Thy riches. PM#150 p241

...through Thy name through which Thou didst enable all them that have recognized Thy unity to partake of the wine of Thy mercy, and all such as have drawn nigh unto Thee to quaff the living waters of Thy loving-kindness... PM#163 p256

The waters of Thy forgiveness and Thy mercy have emboldened me... PM#176 p271

...by Thy Name through which Thou hast guided Thy lovers to the living waters of Thy grace and Thy favors... PM#179 p307




...he would, at one time discover that from this Pen there floweth out unto all created things the water that is life indeed.... At another time he would find that there proceedeth from this Pen such fire as Thine own Revelation can kindle... PM#176 p281

At one time He appeareth as the water which is Life indeed, sent down out of the heaven of Thy grace... Every drop of that water would suffice to quicken the dead, and to set their faces in the direction of Thy favors and Thy gifts, and to rid them of all attachment to aught else except Thee. PM#038 p051
