



Whensoever he hath fulfilled the conditions implied in the verse: 'Whoso maketh efforts for Us,' he shall enjoy the blessing conferred by the words: 'In Our ways shall We assuredly guide him.' [Qur'an 29:69] Only when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of longing desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love, of rapture, and ecstasy, is kindled within the seeker's heart, and the breeze of His loving-kindness is wafted upon his soul, will the darkness of error be dispelled, the mists of doubts and misgivings be dissipated, and the lights of knowledge and certitude envelop his being. KI#215 p195-196, GWB#125 p266-267

...whosoever partook of the cup of love, obtained his portion of the ocean of eternal grace and of the showers of everlasting mercy, and entered into the life of faith - the heavenly and everlasting life. KI#120 p114

...any movement animated by love moveth from the periphery to the centre, from space to the Day-Star of the universe. Perchance thou deemest this to be difficult, but I tell thee that such cannot be the case, for when the motivating and guiding power is the divine force of magnetism it is possible, by its aid, to traverse time and space easily and swiftly. SWAB#166 p197-198

The love of God is like the sun; it shines upon everything and this is His relationship to man; but the love of Man to God is borrowed Light because it is impossible for Man to love unless God had first loved. Love is the greatest Bounty of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, "Pilgrim notes Taken at the Holy Household", p. 5)

I loved thy creation, hence I created thee. Wherefore, do thou love Me, that I may name thy name and fill thy soul with the spirit of life. AHW#04, Ruhi2.2.2, Ruhi6.3.7

Thy Paradise is My love; thy heavenly home, reunion with Me. Enter therein and tarry not. This is that which hath been destined for thee in Our kingdom above (Malakutu'l-'ala) and Our exalted Dominion (Jabarutu'l-'asna). AHW#06

My love is My stronghold; he that entereth therein is safe and secure, and he that turneth away shall surely stray and perish. AHW#09, Ruhi3.1.9, Ruhi3.L14

If the lovers be among them that abide within the precincts of the abode of the Lodestone of hearts, no soul may dwell on this kingly throne save the countenance of love. I am powerless to describe this station or to depict it in words. 'Love shunneth this world and that world too;In him are lunacies seventy-and-two.The minstrel of love harpeth this lay:Servitude enslaveth, lordship doth betray.' This plane demandeth pure love and unalloyed affection. In describing these companions He saith: "They speak not till He hath spoken, and act according to His commandment." In this station, neither the reign of the intellect ('aql) is sufficient nor the rule of self (nafs).... The dwellers of this abode know not the destination, yet they spur on their chargers. They see naught in the Beloved but His very Self. They find all words of sense to be meaningless, and senseless words to be full of meaning. They cannot distinguish head from foot or one limb from another. CDB#7.20-24 (was SV.54-55)

He who attaineth to My love hath title to a throne of gold, to sit thereon in honour over all the world; he who is deprived thereof, though he sit upon the dust, that dust would seek refuge with God, the Lord of all Religions. KA#036

In the garden of thy heart plant naught but the rose of love, and from the nightingale of affection and desire loosen not thy hold. PHW#03, Ruhi3.L4

...love of God, and consequently of men, is the essential foundation of every religion, our own included. A greater degree of love will produce a greater unity, because it enables people to bear with each other, to be patient and forgiving. COC#1299 (7 Jul. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

O living flame of heavenly love! Thine heart hath been so fired with the love of God that from ten thousand leagues afar its warmth and radiance may be felt and seen. The fire lit by mortal hand imparteth light and warmth to but a little space, whereas that sacred flame which the Hand of God hath kindled, though burning in the east, will set aflame the west and give warmth to both the north and the south; nay, it shall rise from this world to glow with the hottest flame in the realms on high, flooding with light the Kingdom of eternal glory. Happy art thou to have obtained so heavenly a gift. Blessed art thou to be favoured with His divine bestowals. SWAB#177, Ruhi8.1.40

The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord: And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. Mark 12:29-31

But there is need of a superior power to overcome human prejudices, a power which nothing in the world of mankind can withstand and which will overshadow the effect of all other forces at work in human conditions. That irresistible power is the love of God. PUP.068

I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed, Love's fool am I, in all the earth. They call me first among the crazed, Though I once came first for wit and worth. O Love, who sellest me this wine, O Love, for whom I burn and bleed, Love, for whom I cry and pine-- Thou the Piper, I the reed. If Thou wishest me to live, Through me blow Thy holy breath. The touch of Jesus Thou wilt give To me, who've lain an age in death. Thou, both End and Origin, Thou without and Thou within-- From every eye Thou hidest well, And yet in every eye dost dwell. ("At one time, Baha'u'llah had written down an ode of Rumi's for him [Ustad Isma'il], and had told him to turn his face toward the Bab and sing the words, set to a melody. And so as he wandered through the long dark nights, Ustad would sing these lines" Abdu'l-Baha, "Memorials of the Faithful", p.29) AB03263




...any movement animated by love moveth from the periphery to the centre, from space to the Day-Star of the universe. Perchance thou deemest this to be difficult, but I tell thee that such cannot be the case, for when the motivating and guiding power is the divine force of magnetism it is possible, by its aid, to traverse time and space easily and swiftly. SWAB#166 p197-198

The Word is the master key for the whole world, inasmuch as through its potency the doors of the hearts of men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked. No sooner had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour shone forth upon the mirror of love than the blessed word 'I am the Best-Beloved' was reflected therein. TB.173, Ruhi6.1.23

...the greatest bestowal of God is love. Love is the source of all the bestowals of God. Until love takes possession of the heart, no other divine bounty can be revealed in it. PUP.015

The first sign of faith is love. The message of the holy, divine Manifestations is love; the phenomena of all creation are based upon love; the radiance of the world is due to love; the well-being and happiness of the world depend upon it. Therefore, I admonish you that you must strive throughout the human world to diffuse the light of love. PUP.337

I loved thy creation, hence I created thee. Wherefore, do thou love Me, that I may name thy name and fill thy soul with the spirit of life. AHW#04, Ruhi2.2.2, Ruhi6.3.7

Or yearning and love is from the state of separation towards unification, and that is the perception and affection of the lovers for the Beauty of that Essence of Unity and Loved One of Reality, purified from the dust polluted by intermediaries and mediators and freed from the turbidity of the places of manifestation and mirrors. The wayfarers in this station look from the plurality of being to True Unity.... Their sight is detached from looking upon a body of water at the reflection of the earth-illumining moon but rather they gaze upon that illumined orb itself which is in the heights of heaven with limitless light. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:019)

The second [kind of love] is the love that flows from man to God. This is faith, attraction to the Divine, enkindlement, progress, entrance into the Kingdom of God, receiving the Bounties of God, illumination with the lights of the Kingdom. This love is the origin of all philanthropy; this love causes the hearts of men to reflect the rays of the Sun of Reality. PT#58:5 p180

The soul then in her natural state is in love with God and wants to be united with him... Plotinus, Enn.VI.9.9

In loving you, what do I love? No physical beauty, no temporal glory, no radiance of light that commends itself to these eyes of mine; no sweet melody of songs tuned to every mode, no soft scent of flowers or of ointments or of perfumes, no manna, no honey, no limbs that can receive [bodily] embrace; yet I do love some kind of light, some kind of voice, some kind of fragrance, some kind of food, some kind of embrace, when I love my God, who is light, voice, fragrance, food, embrace to my inner man. There it is that a light shines on my soul that no place can contain, a sound is uttered that no time can take away, a fragrance cast that no breath of wind can disperse, a savour given forth that eating cannot blunt, and there clings to me that which cannot be torn away by satiety. This is what I love in loving my God. (St. Augustine, Confessions 10.6.8)

Briefly, good deeds become perfect and complete only after the knowledge of God has been acquired, the love of God has been manifested, and spiritual attractions and goodly motives have been attained. Otherwise, though good deeds be praiseworthy, if they do not spring from the knowledge of God, from the love of God, and from a sincere intention, they will be imperfect. SAQ#84.7 (was SAQ.302)

He who attaineth to My love hath title to a throne of gold, to sit thereon in honour over all the world; he who is deprived thereof, though he sit upon the dust, that dust would seek refuge with God, the Lord of all Religions. KA#036

...whosoever partook of the cup of love, obtained his portion of the ocean of eternal grace and of the showers of everlasting mercy, and entered into the life of faith - the heavenly and everlasting life. KI#120 p114

Only when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of longing desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love, of rapture, and ecstasy, is kindled within the seeker's heart, and the breeze of His loving-kindness is wafted upon his soul, will the darkness of error be dispelled, the mists of doubts and misgivings be dissipated, and the lights of knowledge and certitude envelop his being. KI#216 p195-196, GWB#125 p267

That which beseemeth you is the love of God, and the love of Him Who is the Manifestation of His Essence, and the observance of whatsoever He chooseth to prescribe unto you, did ye but know it. GWB#139 p304-305

Let the flame of the love of God burn brightly within your radiant hearts. Feed it with the oil of Divine guidance, and protect it within the shelter of your constancy. Guard it within the globe of trust and detachment from all else but God, so that the evil whisperings of te ungodly may not extinguish its light. GWB#153 p325-326, Ruhi3.1.9

Love Me, that I may love thee. If thou lovest Me not, My love can in no wise reach thee. Know this, O servant. AHW#05

If thou lovest Me, turn away from thyself; and if thou seekest My pleasure, regard not thine own; that thou mayest die in Me and I may eternally live in thee. AHW#07

There is no peace for thee save by renouncing thyself and turning unto Me; for it behooveth thee to glory in My name, not in thine own; to put thy trust in Me and not in thyself, since I desire to be loved alone and above all that is. AHW#08

Abide then in thy love for Me, that thou mayest find Me in the realm of glory. AHW#14

Neglect not My commandments if thou lovest My beauty... AHW#39

For everything there is a sign. The sign of love is fortitude under My decree and patience under My trials. AHW#48, Ruhi3.L13

Make My love thy treasure and cherish it even as thy very sight and life. PHW#32, Ruhi2.1.6

Armed with the power of Thy name nothing can ever hurt me, and with Thy love in my heart all the world's afflictions can in no wise alarm me. PM#122 p208

Until thou enter the Egypt of love, thou shalt never gaze upon the Joseph-like beauty of the Friend; and until, like Jacob, thou forsake thine outward eyes, thou shalt never open the eye of thine inward being; and until thou burn with the fire of love, thou shalt never find thyself in true yearning's embrace.... Love setteth a world aflame at every turn and layeth waste every land wherein it raiseth its banner. Being hath no existence in its kingdom; the wise wield no command within its realm. The leviathan of love swalloweth the master of reason and slayeth the lord of knowledge. It drinketh the seven seas, but its heart's thirst is still unquenched and it asketh, "Is there yet any more?" It shunneth its own self and draweth away from all on earth.... Wherefore must the veils of the satanic self be burned away in the fire of love, that the spirit may be cleansed and refined, and thus may apprehend the station of Him but for Whom the world would not have been created. CDB#7.17-22 (was SV.11)

...ask thou of God that the magnet of His love should draw unto thee the knowledge of Him. Once a soul becometh holy in all things, purified, sanctified, the gates of the knowledge of God will open wide before his eyes. SWAB#160 p191

For love of God and spiritual attraction do cleanse and purify the human heart and dress and adorn it with the spotless garment of holiness; and once the heart is entirely attached to the Lord, and bound over to the Blessed Perfection, then will the grace of God be revealed. This love is not of the body but completely of the soul. And those souls whose inner being is lit by the love of God are even as spreading rays of light, and they shine out like stars of holiness in a pure and crystalline sky. For true love, real love, is the love of God, and this is sanctified beyond the notions and imaginings of men. SWAB#174 p202-203, Ruhi7.1.5

Second comes the love of God. The light of this love is kindled, through the knowledge of God, in the lamp of the heart, and its spreading rays illumine the world and bestow upon man the life of the Kingdom. And in truth the fruit of human existence is the love of God, which is the spirit of life and grace everlasting. Were it not for the love of God, the contingent world would be plunged in darkness. Were it not for the love of God, the hearts of men would be bereft of life and deprived of the stirrings of conscience. Were it not for the love of God, the perfections of the human world would entirely vanish. Were it not for the love of God, no real connection could exist between human hearts. Were it not for the love of God, spiritual union would be lost. Were it not for the love of God, the light of the oneness of mankind would be extinguished. Were it not for the love of God, the East and the West would not embrace as two lovers. Were it not for the love of God, discord and division would not be transmuted into fellowship. Were it not for the love of God, estrangement would not give way to unity. Were it not for the love of God, the stranger would not become the friend. Indeed, love in the human world is a ray of the love of God and a reflection of the grace of His bounty. SAQ#84.3 (was SAQ.300-301)

Were it not for the love of God, discord and division would not be transmuted into fellowship. Were it not for the love of God, estrangement would not give way to unity. Were it not for the love of God, the stranger would not become the friend. Indeed, love in the human world is a ray of the love of God and a reflection of the grace of His bounty. SAQ#84.3 (was SAQ.301)

Love the creatures for the sake of God and not for themselves. You will never become angry or impatient if you love them for the sake of God. Humanity is not perfect. There are imperfections in every human being, and you will always become unhappy if you look toward the people themselves. But if you look toward God, you will love them and be kind to them, for the world of God is the world of perfection and complete mercy. Therefore, do not look at the shortcomings of anybody; see with the sight of forgiveness. The imperfect eye beholds imperfections. The eye that covers faults looks toward the Creator of souls. He created them, trains and provides for them, endows them with capacity and life, sight and hearing; therefore, they are the signs of His grandeur. You must love and be kind to everybody, care for the poor, protect the weak, heal the sick, teach and educate the ignorant. PUP.093, Ruhi2.2.4 (x2)

Let all be united in this Divine power of love! Let all strive to grow in the light of the Sun of Truth, and reflecting this luminous love on all men, may their hearts become so united that they may dwell evermore in the radiance of the limitless love. PT#09:15 p037

When you love a member of your family or a compatriot, let it be with a ray of the Infinite Love! Let it be in God, and for God! Wherever you find the attributes of God love that person, whether he be of your family or of another. PT#09:21 p038, Ruhi6.1.28

Until a person has drunk from this revitalizing divine cup, he cannot know its rapture and until a heart is illumined with this Divinely-kindled fire, he cannot imagine it: 'He who has tasted not, knows not.' For of course, how can the birds of reason and thought which have never flown up from the lowest abyss of the physical world soar in the air of the sky of the Celestial Kingdom or in the exhilarating spaces of the Heavenly Court unless, encompassed by the wonders of Divine Mercy and the effulgences of the Grace of God and with the wings of the power of oneness, they fly in the fields of holy detachment until they attain this sweet spring [Kawthar] of the Euphrates and drink of the waters of life and feed upon the fruits of the holy gardens [Paradise]. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:014)

Real love is a spiritual thing. It is an emotion of the soul. From the emotion of the soul an effect is also produced upon the body. Love will cause the heart to burn and the eyes to weep; it will shake the body and render sleepless the mind. (Abdu'l-Baha, "Pilgrim notes Taken at the Holy Household", p. 7)

...spiritual love, the Love of God, is a bounty from God and will never pass away. We love each other because we are all centred in the Blessed Perfection. If we did not know Him, we should have never loved one another... (Abdu'l-Baha, "Pilgrim notes Taken at the Holy Household", p. 5)

The greatest gift of man is universal love - that magnet which renders existence eternal. It attracts realities and diffuses life with infinite joy. If this love penetrate the heart of man, all the forces of the universe will be realized in him, for it is a divine power which transports him to a divine station and he will make no progress until he is illumined thereby. ADP.111-112

What is the Truth? Truth is the Word of God, which gives life to humanity. It restores sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf; it makes eloquent those who are dumb, and living beings out of dead beings; it illumines the world of the heart and soul; it reduces into nothingness the iniquities of the neglectful and erring ones. Beauty, perfection, brilliancy and spirituality in this existence comes from or through the Word of God. For all it is the supreme goal, the greatest desire, the cause of life, light, instruction. The road to attain to this Truth is the Love of God. When the light of the love of God is burning in the mirror of the heart, that flame shows the way and guides to the Kingdom of the Word of God. As to that which causes the growth of the Love of God, know, it is to turn one's self toward God. (Abdu'l-Baha, BSC.493 #953; SW v14#06 p164; AB00430)

We must love God, and in this state, a general love for all men becomes possible. We cannot love each human being for himself but our feeling towards humanity should be motivated by our love for the Father who created all men. LG#1341, UD.458 (4 Oct. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

By the fire of the Love of God the veil is burnt which separates us from the Heavenly Realities, and with clear vision we are enabled to struggle onward and upward, ever progressing in the paths of virtue and holiness, and becoming the means of light to the world. There is nothing greater or more blessed than the Love of God! It gives healing to the sick, balm to the wounded, joy and consolation to the whole world, and through it alone can man attain Life Everlasting. The essence of all religions is the Love of God, and it is the foundation of all the sacred teachings. PT#27:5-6 p082, Ruhi5.3.5

...actions alone are not sufficient: They are a body of the greatest beauty, but without a spirit. No, that which leads to everlasting life, eternal honour, universal enlightenment, and true success and salvation is, first and foremost, the knowledge [irfan] of God.... Second comes the love of God. The light of this love is kindled, through the knowledge of God, in the lamp of the heart, and its spreading rays illumine the world and bestow upon man the life of the Kingdom.... The third virtue of humanity is goodly intention, which is the foundation of all good deeds.... Briefly, good deeds become perfect and complete only after the knowledge of God has been acquired, the love of God has been manifested, and spiritual attractions and goodly motives have been attained. Otherwise, though good deeds be praiseworthy, if they do not spring from the knowledge of God, from the love of God, and from a sincere intention, they will be imperfect. SAQ#84.2-7 (was SAQ.300-302)

Whoso hath known Him shall soar in the immensity of His love, and shall be detached from the world and all that is therein.... Hearken ye to the Call of this wronged One, and magnify ye the name of the one true God, and adorn yourselves with the ornament of His remembrance, and illumine your hearts with the light of His love. This is the key that unlocketh the hearts of men, the burnish that shall cleanse the souls of all beings. GWB#100 p205

Return, then, and cleave wholly unto God, and cleanse thine heart from the world and all its vanities, and suffer not the love of any stranger to enter and dwell therein. Not until thou dost purify thine heart from every trace of such love can the brightness of the light of God shed its radiance upon it, for to none hath God given more than one heart. This, verily, hath been decreed and written down in His ancient Book. And as the human heart, as fashioned by God, is one and undivided, it behoveth thee to take heed that its affections be, also, one and undivided. Cleave thou, therefore, with the whole affection of thine heart, unto His love, and withdraw it from the love of anyone besides Him, that He may aid thee to immerse thyself in the ocean of His unity, and enable thee to become a true upholder of His oneness. GWB#114 p237; SLH.5#072, cf. Qur'an 33:4: "God has not made for any man two hearts in his (one) body."

Others ere long will lay hands on what ye possess, and enter into your habitations. Incline your ears to My words, and be not numbered among the foolish. For every one of you his paramount duty is to choose for himself that on which no other may infringe and none usurp from him. Such a thing--and to this the Almighty is My witness--is the love of God, could ye but perceive it. Build ye for yourselves such houses as the rain and floods can never destroy, which shall protect you from the changes and chances of this life. This is the instruction of Him Whom the world hath wronged and forsaken. GWB#123 p261

Know thou that nothing profiteth a soul save the love of the All-Merciful, nothing lighteth up a heart save the splendour that shineth from the realm of the Lord. SWAB#151 p178

All things are beneficial if joined with the love of God; and without His love all things are harmful, and act as a veil between man and the Lord of the Kingdom. When His love is there, every bitterness turneth sweet, and every bounty rendereth a wholesome pleasure. SWAB#154 p181, Ruhi6.1.28, Ruhi8.1.40

When once the seeker hath ascended unto this station, he will enter the City of Love and Rapture, whereupon the winds of love will blow and the breezes of the spirit will waft. In this station the seeker is so overcome by the ecstasies of yearning and the fragrances of longing that he discerneth not his left from his right, nor doth he distinguish land from sea or desert from mountain. At every moment he burneth with the fire of longing and is consumed by the onslaught of separation in this world.... Now he laugheth, now he weepeth sore; now he reposeth in peace, now he trembleth in fear. Nothing can alarm him, naught can thwart his purpose, and no law can restrain him.... He yieldeth up spirit, soul, and body in the path of his Lord, and yet he doeth so by the leave of his Beloved and not of his own whim and desire. Thou findest him chill in the fire and dry in the sea, abiding in every land and treading every path. Whosoever toucheth him in this state will perceive the heat of his love. GDM#038 p028-029

...man's intelligence has been enabled to free him from the limitations of nature, and to solve many of her mysteries. Man, to a certain extent, has broken the chains of matter. The Holy Spirit will give to man greater powers than these, if only he will strive after the things of the spirit and endeavour to attune his heart to the Divine infinite love. PT#09:20 p038

The essence of wealth is love for Me; whoso loveth Me is the possessor of all things, and he that loveth Me not is indeed of the poor and needy. TB.156

O living flame of heavenly love! Thine heart hath been so fired with the love of God that from ten thousand leagues afar its warmth and radiance may be felt and seen. The fire lit by mortal hand imparteth light and warmth to but a little space, whereas that sacred flame which the Hand of God hath kindled, though burning in the east, will set aflame the west and give warmth to both the north and the south; nay, it shall rise from this world to glow with the hottest flame in the realms on high, flooding with light the Kingdom of eternal glory. Happy art thou to have obtained so heavenly a gift. Blessed art thou to be favoured with His divine bestowals. SWAB#177, Ruhi8.1.40

O Friends! You must all be so ablaze in this day with the fire of the love of God that the heat thereof may be manifest in all your veins, your limbs and members of your body, and the peoples of the world may be ignited by this heat and turn to the horizon of the Beloved. COC#1898 (From a Tablet of Baha'u'llah)

Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord: And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might.... And now, Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee, but to fear the lord, thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul... Deuteronomy 6:4-5, 10:12

Now it is evident, in accordance with what has been said, that it is love of God (caritas) which directs the acts of all other virtues to the last end and which, consequently, also gives the form to all other acts of virtue: and it is precisely in this sense that love of God (caritas) is called the form of the virtues, for these are called virtues in relation to 'informed' acts. (Thomas Aquinas, Summa theologiae II-II, q.23 a8)

Jesus said to him, 'You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.' This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it: 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' On these two commandments hang all the Law and the prophets. Matthew 22:37-40




He who does not love does not know God; for God is love. 1 Jn 4:7




Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth therein, He, through the direct operation of His unconstrained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinction and capacity to know (ma'rifat) Him and to love Him - a capacity that must needs be regarded as the generating impulse and the primary purpose underlying the whole of creation. GWB#027 p065; Ruhi1.3.10
