



Love is the cause of God's revelation unto man, the vital bond inherent, in accordance with the divine creation, in the realities of things.... Love is the most great law that ruleth this mighty and heavenly cycle, the unique power that bindeth together the divers elements of this material world, the supreme magnetic force that directeth the movements of the spheres in the celestial realms. SWAB#012 p027

...the variation in the stations of love are from differences of stations and stages and in each world of the worlds and in each stage of the stages there can be seen a magnetism of oneness. Within the grasp of its power is the mutual attraction of the reality of all things and the pulling [together] of the subtlety of Being. And this magnetism of oneness is the station of Love and Attraction (khullat). ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:015)

Those who discover the secrets of the universe, and are aware of its inherent properties and concealed mysteries believe that an astonishing power of attraction is diffused throughout creation; that an extraordinary bond of magnetism embraceth these myriad beings and governeth these countless elements, both physical and spiritual. Through this Universal Power the individual essences of the diverse simple elements are bound together. And through the principles of separation, distinctiveness, as well as the multiplicity and variation of elements, the limitless range of created beings have been produced. Thus, hath the material world become a rose garden of wonders and the physical realm a paradise of subtle grace. That universal power of attraction is manifest within the inmost reality of every being with an ever-varying splendour, its beauty and charm made apparent in different degrees. Within the inmost reality of man, it expresseth itself as the power of yearning, which is conducive to rapture, fervour, and ecstasy. (Provisional translation, AB06872)

The discoverers of the mysteries of existence and those who comprehend the qualities and hidden secrets hold that a wondrous force of attraction and a strange magnetic power of connection permeates and encompasses all these infinite beings and successive contingent things, both physical and spiritual, and is equally present in them all. And it is through this universal force that the individual essences of the different simple elements come together, and due to the diversity and differences of parts, the multiplication and contrast of the infinite diverse realities of existing things come into being. The world of matter has become a rose garden of wonders and a garden of subtle and elegant mysteries. In truth, every thing has unveiled itself through that universal attractive force with a manifestation and light and has displayed its beauty. And in human reality it has become the power of yearning, bringing about enthusiasm and passion and attraction. AB06872




Unity is the expression of the loving power of God and reflects the reality of Divinity. PUP.014




...order your lives in accordance with the first principle of the divine teaching, which is love. Service to humanity is service to God. Let the love and light of the Kingdom radiate through you until all who look upon you shall be illumined by its reflection. PUP.008

By the fire of the Love of God the veil is burnt which separates us from the Heavenly Realities, and with clear vision we are enabled to struggle onward and upward, ever progressing in the paths of virtue and holiness, and becoming the means of light to the world. There is nothing greater or more blessed than the Love of God! It gives healing to the sick, balm to the wounded, joy and consolation to the whole world, and through it alone can man attain Life Everlasting. The essence of all religions is the Love of God, and it is the foundation of all the sacred teachings. PT#27:5-6 p082, Ruhi5.3.5

The cause of the creation of all contingent beings has been love, as it is mentioned in the famous tradition; "I was a hidden treasure, and I loved to be known. Therefore I created the creation in order to be known." (Baha'u'llah, in SW v07#10 p100) cf: "Love was the reason for there being a creation, as stated in the famous tradition, "I was a hidden treasure, and loved that I be known, and thus created My creation that I might be known." Therefore must all come together in the law of love divine such that no odor of dissension be diffused amid the friends and companions in God. Having set their gaze on love, all men shall act as one, such that disunion will be seen in none. All share in fortune and in ill, in profit and in woe, in hardship and in ease. It is Our hope that the breeze of unity be borne from the city of the Lord, and that He adorn all with the raiment of oneness, of love and of detachment." (Baha'u'llah, provisionally translated by Joshua Hall at joshuahalltranslations.com)

All God's prophets have brought the message of love. None has ever thought that war and hate are good. Every one agrees in saying that love and kindness are best. PT#09:1 p035

Know thou that in every age and cycle, all laws and ordinances have been changed according to the requirements of the times, except the law of love which, like a fountain, ever flows, and whose course never suffers change. (Baha'u'llah, in The Dawn, v5#12 p.1 [translated by Shoghi Effendi]) Earlier translation: Know thou, therefore, that in every age and dispensation all Divine Ordinances are changed and transformed according to the requirements of the time, except the law of love, which, like unto a fountain, always flows and is never overtaken by change. BNE.175 (Baha'u'llah), BSC#524

...religion must be the mainspring and source of love in the world, for religion is the revelation of the will of God, the divine fundamental of which is love. Therefore, if religion should prove to be the cause of enmity and hatred instead of love, its absence is preferable to its existence. PUP.315

Thou hast written that the fundamental basis is love. This is the actual truth; the divine splendors are founded on love and the radiance of the Merciful One in the human world produceth heartfelt attractions. TAB.729

Love is the firstborn, loftier than the gods, the Fathers and men. You, O Love, are the eldest of all, altogether mighty. To you we pay homage! Greater than the breadth of earth and heaven, or of waters and Fire, You, O Love, are the eldest of all, altogether mighty. To you we pay homage! In many a form of goodness, O Love, you show your face. Grant that these forms may penetrate within our hearts. Send elsewhere all malice! (Atharva Veda 9.2.19-20, 25)

His holiness Christ came for the promulgation of the law of love; all the prophets were sent, all the books were revealed, so that the law of love might be promoted.... Let us have love and more love, a love that melts all opposition, a love that conquers all foes, a love that sweeps away all barriers, a love that aboundeth in charity, large-heartedness, tolerance, and noble-striving, a love that triumphs over all obstacles, a boundless, resistless, sweeping love. Ah, me! Each one must be a sign of love, a sea of love, a center of love, a sun of love, a star of love, a haven of love, a pearl of love, a palace of love, a mountain of love, a world of love, a universe of love. Hast thou love? Then thy power is irresistible. Hast thou sympathy? Then all the stars will sing thy praise! (words to a Christian minister spoken on 9 June 1914, SW v08#17)

It makes no difference as to the name of the God; since love is the real God of all the world. (Apache Saying , The Path of Prayer by Sophy Burnham)

That which hath been recorded at God's behest in the Persian Bayan is indeed sufficient unto all, and none will be held to account for what it hath not commanded. Consider how numerous were those in the early days of the Revelation who obeyed, without the slightest deviation, every least one of its injunctions and yet reaped no benefit therefrom. The beginning of religion is love for God and for His Chosen Ones, and its end is to manifest that love to His servants. I swear by God! Whoso faileth to obey the commantments of God can in no wise be numbered among His loved ones, for among the conditions of His love is to follow His commandments and observe His prohibitions. But since these are the days of concealment, and the Sun of eternity remaineth hidden beneath the horizon of being, one must gather together everyone with love and protect them. The time for the completion of the commandments and the perfection of deeds will assuredly come. CDB#3.8-9




I loved thy creation, hence I created thee. Wherefore, do thou love Me, that I may name thy name and fill thy soul with the spirit of life. AHW#04, Ruhi2.2.2, Ruhi6.3.7

Thy Paradise is My love; thy heavenly home, reunion with Me. Enter therein and tarry not. This is that which hath been destined for thee in Our kingdom above (Malakutu'l-'ala) and Our exalted Dominion (Jabarutu'l-'asna). AHW#06

My love is My stronghold; he that entereth therein is safe and secure, and he that turneth away shall surely stray and perish. AHW#09, Ruhi3.1.9, Ruhi3.L14

My love is in thee, know it, that thou mayest find Me near unto thee. AHW#10

Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase thyself? Out of the essence of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment from anyone beside Me? Out of the clay of love I molded thee, how dost thou busy thyself with another? Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting. AHW#13, Ruhi6.3.17, Ruhi5.2.5         "As to the passage No. 13 of the Arabic Hidden Words: that which Baha'u'llah declares we can find abiding within us is the power of the Divine Spirit, the reflection of the light of His Revelation. This reflection of the Divine Spirit however, can in no wise be compared to the Revelation which God discloses to His Prophets and Messengers. The similarity in the terminology should not confuse this distinction which is most fundamental." LG#1601 (7 Dec. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)         "Thou hast asked about the statement in the Hidden Words [AHW#13]... This is the statement to which His Holiness, the Christ, referred to His Apostles in the Gospel, saying: 'The Father is in the Son and the Son is in you.' It is evident that, when hearts are purified and through divine education and heavenly teachings each becomes a manifestor of infinite bounty, it is like a clear mirror, and the Sun of Truth will be reflected in it with might, power and omnipotence, to such an extent that whatever is brought before it is ignited and consumed. This is a brief interpretation because of lack of time. Therefore, do thou reflect and ponder over it, so that the doors of significance may be opened before thine eyes." LG#1635 ('Abdu'l-Baha, from a Tablet to Thornton Chase)

The world was created through love, and all are commanded to fellowship and unity. Fix your gaze upon and call to remembrance this word which hath shone forth from the mouth of the King of Unity (ahadiyah): Veiled in My immemorial being and in the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.143. Early translation in BSC#472 p.232. Second sentence quotes AHW#03)

And when there has shone forth, with all the limitless Divine Names and Attributes, from the Dawning Place of Creation [ibda'] upon and for the sake of Possible Being, that is the station of the appearance of a wondrous creation and a new handiwork which is the station of 'and so I created the Creation.' ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:050)

Love is the cause of God's revelation unto man, the vital bond inherent, in accordance with the divine creation, in the realities of things.... Love is the most great law that ruleth this mighty and heavenly cycle, the unique power that bindeth together the divers elements of this material world, the supreme magnetic force that directeth the movements of the spheres in the celestial realms. SWAB#012 p027

The cause of the creation of all contingent beings has been love, as it is mentioned in the famous tradition; "I was a hidden treasure, and I loved to be known. Therefore I created the creation in order to be known." (Baha'u'llah, in SW v07#10 p100) cf: "Love was the reason for there being a creation, as stated in the famous tradition, "I was a hidden treasure, and loved that I be known, and thus created My creation that I might be known." Therefore must all come together in the law of love divine such that no odor of dissension be diffused amid the friends and companions in God. Having set their gaze on love, all men shall act as one, such that disunion will be seen in none. All share in fortune and in ill, in profit and in woe, in hardship and in ease. It is Our hope that the breeze of unity be borne from the city of the Lord, and that He adorn all with the raiment of oneness, of love and of detachment." (Baha'u'llah, provisionally translated by Joshua Hall at joshuahalltranslations.com)

Creation is of the order of love. God's love is the fundamental moving force in all created things. (Pope Francis)

God grant that thou mayest fix thy gaze upon the love of God which is the generating impulse and the purpose underlying the whole of creation, and mayest be set aglow by its heat. Through its first letter, (Ha'), the fire of His love gloweth in the hearts of the favoured among the faithful, and in the breasts of they who are nigh unto God and are devoted to Him. Through its second, (Ba'), all created things are made manifest and, by the very dot beneath it, hath appeared the realm of distinction. If this utterance were to be further expounded, from it the mysteries of the beginning and the end would be made known and laid bare. (Provisional translation, BH00944)




The first [kind of love] is the love that flows from God to man; it consists of the inexhaustible graces, the Divine effulgence and heavenly illumination. Through this love the world of being receives life. Through this love man is endowed with physical existence, until, through the Breath of the Holy Spirit - this same love - he receives eternal life and becomes the image of the Living God. This love is the origin of all the love in the world of creation. PT#58:4 p180

I have breathed within thee a breath of My own Spirit, that thou mayest be My lover. Why hast thou forsaken Me and sought a beloved other than Me? AHW#19

My grace to thee is plenteous, it cannot be veiled. My love has made in thee its home, it cannot be concealed. AHW#20

Love is heaven's kindly light, the Holy Spirit's eternal breath that vivifieth the human soul. SWAB#012 p027

Love is the light that guideth in darkness, the living link that uniteth God with man, that assureth the progress of every illumined soul. SWAB#012 p027

Were it not for the love of God, all the spirits would be inanimate.... Were it not for the love of God, the hearts would not be illumined. PUP.257

Show love to all; 'Love is the breath of the Holy Spirit in the heart of Man.' PT#06:12 p030

Love is only the four kinds that I have explained.... These are rays from the Sun of Reality; these are the Breathings of the Holy Spirit; these are the Signs of the Reality. PT#58:10 p181

The first sign of faith is love. The message of the holy, divine Manifestations is love; the phenomena of all creation are based upon love; the radiance of the world is due to love; the well-being and happiness of the world depend upon it. Therefore, I admonish you that you must strive throughout the human world to diffuse the light of love. PUP.337

Know thou of a certainty that Love is the secret of God's holy Dispensation, the manifestation of the All-Merciful, the fountain of spiritual outpourings. Love is heaven's kindly light, the Holy Spirit's eternal breath that vivifieth the human soul. SWAB#012 p027




The essence of Baha'u'llah's Teaching is all-embracing love, for love includeth every excellence of humankind. It causeth every soul to go forward. It bestoweth on each one, for a heritage, immortal life. SWAB#031 p066
