



...one ought not to enquire whether one thing is less than another but whether it is, as itself, sufficient: for all things ought not to have been equal. Plotinus, Enn.III.3.3

The law of order must always obtain in the world of humanity. Heaven has so decreed in the creation of man. Some are full of intelligence, others have an ordinary amount of it, and others again are devoid of intellect. In these three classes of men there is order but not equality.... Degrees are absolutely necessary to ensure an orderly organization. PT#46:6-7 p152

The King appoints one to be his prime minister, another to be his greatest general and so on from the highest to the lowest. If all were generals or all were soldiers there would be no kingdom. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, pp. 46-47)

Baha'u'llah has laid down a great foundation for a system which, although it advocates the oneness of humanity and upholds the common weal, will preserve the various ranks. Every rank should perform its duties. Rights should be equal and all are the servants of one kind God. (Mahmud's Diary, 1 Nov. 1912, p. 364)

It is therefore clear that in man's innate nature there is a difference in degree, aptitude, and capacity, but it is not a matter of good or evil--it is merely a difference of degree. One occupies the highest degree, another the middle degree, and yet another the lowest degree. Thus man, the animal, the plant, and the mineral all exist, but the existence of these four kinds of beings is different. Indeed, what a difference there is between the existence of man and that of the animal! Yet all these do exist, and it is evident that in existence there are differences of degree. SAQ#57.4 (was SAQ.212-213)

And further, although the degrees of being are various, yet all are good. Observe the human body, its limbs, its members, the eye, the ear, the organs of smell, of taste, the hands, the fingernails. Notwithstanding the differences among all these parts, each one within the limitations of its own being participateth in a coherent whole. If one of them faileth it must be healed, and should no remedy avail, that part must be removed. SWAB#159 p190

It is clear from the Writings of Baha'u'llah, as well as from those of 'Abdu'l-Baha and the interpretations of the Guardian, that the proper functioning of human society requires the preservation of ranks and classes within its membership. The friends should recognize this without envy or jealousy, and those who occupy ranks should never exploit their position or regard themselves as being superior to others... LG#1096 (27 Mar. 1978 from the Universal House of Justice)
