



...so long as it is acknowledged that these different beings have appeared in time, it is possible that man simply came into existence after the animal. Thus we observe in the vegetable kingdom that the fruits of different trees do not appear all at once; on the contrary, some appear earlier in the season and others later. This priority is not a proof that the later fruit of one tree was produced from the earlier fruit of another. SAQ#49.4 (was SAQ.192)

...there were many universal cycles preceding this one in which we are living. They were consummated, completed and their traces obliterated.  The divine and creative purpose in them was the evolution of spiritual man, just as it is in this cycle.  The circle of existence is the same circle; it returns.  The tree of life has ever borne the same heavenly fruit. PUP.220

This is the fruit of the tree of creation - to be freed from the darkness of the planet in order to enter the worlds of light.  This is the object of existence; this is the fruit of the tree of humanity. ADP.123

For the enlightenment of the world dependeth upon the existence of man. If man did not exist in this world, it would have been like a tree without fruit. SWAB#088 p120

But from the beginning that has no beginning to the end that has no end, a perfect Manifestation has always existed. This Man of Whom we speak here is not just any man: That which we intend is the Perfect Man. For the noblest part of the tree, and the fundamental purpose of its existence, is the fruit. A tree without fruit is of no use. Therefore, it cannot be imagined that the world of existence, whether in the realms above or below, was once populated by cows and donkeys, cats, and mice, and yet was deprived of the presence of man. What a false and vacuous notion! SAQ#50.5 (was SAQ.197)

Existence is like a tree, and man is the fruit. ADP.110

The world is like a tree; the mineral kingdom is like the root; the vegetable kingdom is like the branches; the animal kingdom is like the blossoms; and man is like unto the fruit of that tree. The tree is but for its fruit. If the gardener did not expect fruit, he would never plant trees. In the same way everything is for man. (Pilgrim notes of George Winterburn, Table Talks with Abdul-Baha, February 1904, p. 12)

Existence is like a tree - all other beings besides man are like its leaves and branches, but man is in the condition of the fruit. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 60)

Man is the greatest member of the world of existence and the fruit of the tree of this visible universe. His species is eternal, and this eternal reality has no beginning and no end. That which the philosophers of Europe have stated in regard to human evolution - that man came from the kingdom of the mineral, the vegetable, and then the animal, is pure supposition, for his species has always existed. It may be that on this globe of earth in the beginning he was in the stage of a seed, and afterwards he evolved and attained the station of manifesting the words 'Blessed be God, the best of creators!' But that seed which evolved by degrees belonged to the human species, not an animal species. Therefore, this species is beyond time and from the outset was the noblest of creatures upon the earth. This is the truth, and naught lies beyond the truth but evident error. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT3:257, in Brown (2001), 107-108)

The Blessed Beauty saith: 'Ye are all the fruits of one tree, the leaves of one branch.' Thus hath He likened this world of being to a single tree, and all its peoples to the leaves thereof, and the blossoms and fruits. It is needful for the bough to blossom, and leaf and fruit to flourish, and upon the interconnection of all parts of the world-tree, dependeth the flourishing of leaf and blossom, and the sweetness of the fruit. For this reason must all human beings powerfully sustain one another and seek for everlasting life; and for this reason must the lovers of God in this contingent world become the mercies and the blessings sent forth by that clement King of the seen and unseen realms. Let them purify their sight and behold all humankind as leaves and blossoms and fruits of the tree of being. Let them at all times concern themselves with doing a kindly thing for one of their fellows, offering to someone love, consideration, thoughtful help. SWAB#001 p001 (For an ancient example of the world tree imagery see Plotinus, Enn.III.3.7)

Moreover, it is necessary that the signs of the perfections of the spirit appear in this world, that the realm of creation may bring forth endless fruits, and that this body of the contingent world may receive life and manifest the divine bounties. So, for example, the rays of the sun must shine upon the earth and its heat must nurture all earthly beings; if the rays and heat of the sun were not to reach the earth, it would remain idle and desolate and its development would be arrested. Likewise, were the perfections of the spirit not to appear in this world, it would become dark and wholly animalistic. It is through the appearance of the spirit in the material body that this world is illumined. Just as the spirit of man is the cause of the life of his body, so is the whole world even as a body and man as its spirit. If man did not exist, if the perfections of the spirit were not manifested and the light of the mind were not shining in this world, it would be like a body without a spirit. By another token, this world is even as a tree and man as the fruit; without the fruit the tree would be of no use. SAQ#52.3-4 (was SAQ.200-201)

Consider, moreover, how the fruit, ere it is formed, lieth potentially within the tree. Were the tree to be cut into pieces, no sign nor any part of the fruit, however, small, could be detected. When it appeareth, however, it manifesteth itself, as thou hast observed, in its wondrous beauty and glorious perfection. Certain fruits, indeed, attain their fullest development only after being severed from the tree. GWB#080 p155

We have created you from one tree and have caused you to be as the leaves and fruit of the same tree, that haply ye may become a source of comfort to one another. Regard ye not others save as ye regard your own selves, that no feeling of aversion may prevail amongst you so as to shut you out from Him Whom God shall make manifest on the Day of Resurrection. It behooveth you all to be one indivisible people; thus should ye return unto Him Whom God shall make manifest. SWB.129




How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine in an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that surge within a drop! To a supreme degree is this true of man, who, among all created things, hath been invested with the robe of such gifts, and hath been singled out for the glory of such distinction. For in him are potentially revealed all the attributes and names of God to a degree that no other created being hath excelled or surpassed. All these names and attributes are applicable to him. Even as He hath said: 'Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery.' ... Even as He hath revealed: 'We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within themselves.' KI#107 p101, GWB#090 p177-178, Ruhi3a.L15 (1st sentence)

...in the tradition of Kumayl it is written: 'Behold, a light hath shone forth out of the Morn of eternity, and lo! its waves have penetrated the inmost reality of all men.' Man, the noblest and most perfect of all created things, excelleth them all in the intensity of this revelation, and is a fuller expression of its glory. KI#109 p102-103, GWB#090 p178-179

The noblest of all earthly beings is man. In him are realized the animal, the vegetable, and the mineral kingdoms; that is, all these degrees are contained in him in such wise that he is endowed with them all. And, being endowed with all these degrees and stations, he is informed of their mysteries and aware of the secrets of their existence. SAQ#40.7 (was SAQ.158)

We regard man as the chief member because, among all created things, he encompasses all the perfections of existence. Now, what we mean by "man" is the complete human being, the foremost person in the world, who is the sum of all spiritual and material perfections, and who is like the sun among all created things. Imagine, then, a time when the sun did not exist as such, in other words, when the sun was merely another celestial body. Undoubtedly, at such a time the relationships between existing things would have been disrupted. SAQ#46.4-5 (was SAQ.178)

The human kingdom is replete with the perfections of all the kingdoms below it with the addition of powers peculiar to man alone. Man is, therefore, superior to all the creatures below him, the loftiest and most glorious being of creation. PUP.069

Finally, we reach the kingdom of man. Here we find that all the degrees of the mineral, vegetable and animal expressions of love are present plus unmistakable attractions of consciousness. PUP.268

The mineral kingdom possesses the power of existing. The plant has the power of existing and growing. The animal, in addition to existence and growth, has the capacity of moving about, and the use of the faculties of the senses. In the human kingdom we find all the attributes of the lower worlds, with much more added thereto. Man is the sum of every previous creation, for he contains them all. PT#05:14 p025

...in this great and infinite universe all things end in the mineral kingdom, ... the outcome of the mineral kingdom is the vegetable kingdom, the outcome of the vegetable kingdom is the animal kingdom and the outcome of the animal kingdom the world of man.  The consummation of this limitless universe with all its grandeur and glory hath been man himself... Forel.13-14

...man is shown to be the sum of all creation, the superior of all created beings, the goal to which countless ages of existence have progressed. PT#29:20 p092

'What is the purpose of our lives?'     'Abdu'l-Baha - To acquire virtues. We come from the earth; why were we transferred from the mineral to the vegetable kingdom - from the plant to the animal kingdom? So that we may attain perfection in each of these kingdoms...until from the animal kingdom we step into the world of humanity and are gifted with reason, the power of invention, and the forces of the spirit. PT#55:2 p177

Regard this globe.  Its divisions are mineral, vegetable and animal.  Man is the result of all these; therefore man is the result of all existence here. ADP.122

Likewise, reflect upon the perfection of man's creation, and that all these planes and states are folded up and hidden away within him. 'Dost thou deem thyself a small and puny form,When thou foldest within thyself the greater world (al-'alamu'l-akbar)?' [Rumi] CDB#2.70 (was SV.34)

We have established time and again through proofs and arguments that man is the noblest of all beings and the sum of all perfections. Indeed, all existing things are the seat of the revelation of the divine splendours; that is, the signs of the divinity of God are manifest in the realities of all things.... ...the world of existence, indeed every created thing, proclaims but one of the names of God, but the reality of man is an all-encompassing and universal reality which is the seat of the revelation of all the divine perfections. That is, a sign of each one of the names, attributes, and perfections that we ascribe to God exists in man. SAQ#50.2-3 (was SAQ.195)

Man is the most distinguished species in that he combines the perfections of all three classes--that is, he possesses a material body, the power of growth, and the power of sensation. Beyond the mineral, vegetable, and animal perfections, however, he also possesses a special perfection of which other created things are bereft, namely, the perfections of the mind. Thus man is the noblest of all existing things. SAQ#64.1 (was SAQ.235)

... [man] possesses all the virtues of the lower kingdoms... PUP.258

Possessing this gift [intellect], he is, in himself, the sum of earlier creations - he is able to get into touch with those kingdoms PT#11:3 p041

Man is the sum of creation, and the Perfect Man is the expression of the complete thought of the Creator - the Word of God. PT#15:2 p051

...man, being the culmination of all that went before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains all the lower world within himself. PT#31:5 p096-097

All that has been created is for man who is at the apex of creation and who must be thankful for the divine bestowals, so that through his gratitude he may learn to understand life as a divine benefit. ADP.134

...man, who contains the perfection of the mineral, the vegetable and animal, as well as his own distinctive qualities, has become the noblest of created beings. AL.023

...man is said to be the greatest sign of God--that is, he is the Book of Creation--for all the mysteries of the universe are found in him. SAQ#64.4 (was SAQ.236)

Man - the true man - is soul, not body; though physically man belongs to the animal kingdom, yet his soul lifts him above the rest of creation. PT#28:6 p085

Minerals, plants and animals are bereft of the mental faculties of man that discover the realities of all things, but man himself comprehendeth all the stages beneath him. Forel.15

Although man is part of the animal creation, he possesses a power of thought superior to all other created beings. PT#2.1




Some say that human existence is among those things that have appeared in the world of being and that are due to the exigencies of nature. Were this true, man would be the branch and nature the root. But is it possible that there could exist a will, a consciousness, and certain perfections in the branch which are absent in the root? SAQ#1.6 (was SAQ.004)

...if all beings were to become pure intelligence and to reflect until the end that has no end, they could not possibly imagine anything better than that which already exists. If in the past, however, the creation had lacked such completeness and adornment, if it had been in an inferior state, then existence would have necessarily been wanting and imperfect and, as such, incomplete. This matter requires the utmost attention and thought.... So if we were to imagine a time when man belonged to the animal kingdom, that is, when he was merely an animal, existence would have been imperfect. This means that there would have been no man, and this chief member, which in the body of the world is like the mind and the brain in a human being, would have been lacking, and the world would thus have been utterly imperfect.... Now, what we mean by "man" is the complete human being, the foremost person in the world, who is the sum of all spiritual and material perfections, and who is like the sun among all created things. SAQ#46.2-4 (was SAQ.178)

...there were many universal cycles preceding this one in which we are living. They were consummated, completed and their traces obliterated.  The divine and creative purpose in them was the evolution of spiritual man, just as it is in this cycle.  The circle of existence is the same circle; it returns.  The tree of life has ever borne the same heavenly fruit. PUP.220

Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth therein, He, through the direct operation of His unconstrained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinction and capacity to know (ma'rifat) Him and to love Him - a capacity that must needs be regarded as the generating impulse and the primary purpose underlying the whole of creation. GWB#027 p065; Ruhi1.3.10

If such be the blessings conferred on all created things, how superior must be the destiny of the true believer, whose existence and life are to be regarded as the originating purpose of all creation. GWB#073 p141

We will now present spiritual proofs that human existence--that is, the human species--is a necessary existence and that without man the perfections of Divinity would not shine forth. But these are spiritual and not rational arguments. SAQ#50.1 (was SAQ.195)

If man did not exist, the universe would be without result, for the purpose of existence is the revelation of the divine perfections. We cannot say, then, that there was a time when man was not. At most we can say that there was a time when this earth did not exist, and that at the beginning man was not present upon it. SAQ#50.4 (was SAQ.196)

If man did not exist, if the perfections of the spirit were not manifested and the light of the mind were not shining in this world, it would be like a body without a spirit. SAQ#52.3 (was SAQ.201)

...the outcome of the mineral kingdom is the vegetable kingdom... The consummation of this limitless universe with all its grandeur and glory hath been man himself.... Were it so, there is no doubt that this infinite universe with all its perfections has ended in sham and delusion with no result, no fruit, no permanence and no effect. Forel.13-14

In the world of existence there is nothing so important as spirit, nothing so essential as the spirit of man.  The spirit of man is the most noble of phenomena. PUP.239

If man had not been put upon this earth the world would be dead.  I do not speak of the physical man, but the human attainments which are the adornment of existence.  If man did not exist, this world would have no beauty, no eternity, no object. ADP.128-129

The world of existence holds the station of one temple, one body; and man in comparison thereto is the spirit of such body. Just as the body, without spirit, is dead; even so the world of existence minus the presence of man is as dead... (Pilgrim notes of Charles and Mariam Haney, A Heavenly Feast, Feb. 1909, pp. 34-35)

...man is shown to be the sum of all creation, the superior of all created beings, the goal to which countless ages of existence have progressed. PT#29:20 p092

Regard this globe.  Its divisions are mineral, vegetable and animal.  Man is the result of all these; therefore man is the result of all existence here. ADP.122

This is the fruit of the tree of creation - to be freed from the darkness of the planet in order to enter the worlds of light.  This is the object of existence; this is the fruit of the tree of humanity. ADP.123

But as to evolution: it is true of both the body and the spirit. Consider how many sciences, arts, discoveries and achievements have come into existence since the days of Moses till the present time through the progress of the human soul in knowledge and perfections. Similarly, how much the soul has evolved from the moral point of view. From the material standpoint, you can see also how much civilization has progressed.... When the body of man is perfected, physical evolution comes to an end, since nature does not seek to build a higher form than that of man. But the evolution of spirit continues until reason, the mental powers, and the emotional capacities are evolved in it. SW v12#12 p194

Praise and thanksgiving be unto Providence that out of all the realities in existence He has chosen the reality of man and has honored it with intellect and wisdom, the two most luminous lights in either world. Through the agency of this great endowment, He has in every epoch cast on the mirror of creation new and wonderful configurations. If we look objectively upon the world of being, it will become apparent that from age to age, the temple of existence has continually been embellished with a fresh grace, and distinguished with an ever-varying splendor, deriving from wisdom and the power of thought. This supreme emblem of God stands first in the order of creation and first in rank, taking precedence over all created things. Witness to it is the Holy Tradition, 'Before all else, God created the mind ('aql).' From the dawn of creation, it was made to be revealed in the temple of man. Sanctified is the Lord, Who with the dazzling rays of this strange, heavenly power has made our world of darkness the envy of the worlds of light.... SDC.001, Ruhi8.1.23




But as to evolution: it is true of both the body and the spirit. Consider how many sciences, arts, discoveries and achievements have come into existence since the days of Moses till the present time through the progress of the human soul in knowledge and perfections. Similarly, how much the soul has evolved from the moral point of view. From the material standpoint, you can see also how much civilization has progressed.... When the body of man is perfected, physical evolution comes to an end, since nature does not seek to build a higher form than that of man. But the evolution of spirit continues until reason, the mental powers, and the emotional capacities are evolved in it. SW v12#12 p194

The species and essences of all things are permanent and changeless. Only within the limits of each species do progress and decline occur. In the human species, man's essence has always been preserved and unchanged and this was and will continue the same. As you will see from the ancient and human bodies which have been dried and embalmed and exhumed from the pyramids of Egypt 5,000 years after their death, there was not the slightest change or variation, not even a hair is different from the human beings of today. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA9.027. First two sentences in JBS5:4, p.61. Cf. Cuvier in Brown (2001), 16)




How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine in an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that surge within a drop! To a supreme degree is this true of man, who, among all created things, hath been invested with the robe of such gifts, and hath been singled out for the glory of such distinction. For in him are potentially revealed all the attributes and names of God to a degree that no other created being hath excelled or surpassed. All these names and attributes are applicable to him. Even as He hath said: 'Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery.' ... Even as He hath revealed: 'We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within themselves.' KI#107 p101, GWB#090 p177-178, Ruhi3a.L15 (1st sentence)

We have established time and again through proofs and arguments that man is the noblest of all beings and the sum of all perfections. Indeed, all existing things are the seat of the revelation of the divine splendours; that is, the signs of the divinity of God are manifest in the realities of all things.... ...the world of existence, indeed every created thing, proclaims but one of the names of God, but the reality of man is an all-encompassing and universal reality which is the seat of the revelation of all the divine perfections. That is, a sign of each one of the names, attributes, and perfections that we ascribe to God exists in man. SAQ#50.2-3 (was SAQ.195)

Upon the inmost reality of each and every created thing He hath shed the light of one of His names, and made it a recipient of the glory of one of His attributes. Upon the reality of man, however, He hath focused the radiance of all of His names and attributes, and made it a mirror of His own Self. Alone of all created things man hath been singled out for so great a favor, so enduring a bounty. GWB#027 p065, Ruhi1.3.10

...the reality of man is an all-encompassing and universal reality which is the seat of the revelation of all the divine perfections. That is, a sign of each one of the names, attributes, and perfections that we ascribe to God exists in man.... Thus, the divinity of God, which is the totality of all perfections, reveals itself in the reality of man--that is, the divine Essence is the sum total of all perfections, and from this station it casts a ray of its splendour upon the human reality. In other words, the Sun of Truth is reflected in this mirror. Thus man is a perfect mirror facing the Sun of Truth and is the seat of its reflection. The splendour of all the divine perfections is manifest in the reality of man, and it is for this reason that he is the vicegerent and apostle of God. SAQ#50.3-4 (was SAQ.196)

...humanity is the dawning of light, which is to say that it is the beginning of the Day of Oneness and Guidance and the end of the night of plurality and loss. It is the mirror with the disposition to reflect all of the conflicting and opposing Names and is the source of the revelation of all of the Attributes of Divinity and Lordship.... However although he is the dawning-place of the manifestation of all the Names and Attributes, one of the Divine Names is manifested most strongly and appears most intensely [in each person]. Thus his being originates from this Name and returns to it. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:041-042)

All beings other than Man only reflect, each one of them, singly, one aspect of the Absolute. It is only when put together in the form of the universe that they constitute a big whole corresponding to the Consciousness itself of the Absolute. In this sense, the universe, certainly, is 'one', but, since the universe lacks consciousness, it does not constitute real unity. Man, on the contrary, not only synthesizes all the forms of the Divine self-manifestation which are scattered over the world of Being, but also is conscious of this whole. This is why a true comprehensive unity is established by Man, corresponding to the Unity of the Absolute. Man is in this sense the Imago Dei. And because of this peculiarity, Man can be ... the 'vicegerent' of God on the earth. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 222)
