



We now come to the question of the transformation of species and the evolutionary development [taraqqi] of organs, that is, whether man has come from the animal kingdom. This idea has entrenched itself in the minds of certain European philosophers, and it is very difficult now to make its falsity understood; but in the future it will become clear and evident, and the European philosophers will themselves recognize it. For in reality it is an evident error. SAQ#46.1-2 (was SAQ.177)

...if all beings were to become pure intelligence and to reflect until the end that has no end, they could not possibly imagine anything better than that which already exists. If in the past, however, the creation had lacked such completeness and adornment, if it had been in an inferior state, then existence would have necessarily been wanting and imperfect and, as such, incomplete. This matter requires the utmost attention and thought.... So if we were to imagine a time when man belonged to the animal kingdom, that is, when he was merely an animal, existence would have been imperfect. This means that there would have been no man, and this chief member, which in the body of the world is like the mind and the brain in a human being, would have been lacking, and the world would thus have been utterly imperfect.... Now, what we mean by "man" is the complete human being, the foremost person in the world, who is the sum of all spiritual and material perfections, and who is like the sun among all created things. SAQ#46.2-4 (was SAQ.178)

...from the beginning of man's existence on this planet until he assumed his present shape, form, and condition, a long time must have elapsed, and he must have traversed many stages before reaching his present condition. But from the beginning of his existence man has been a distinct species [naw']. This is similar to the embryo of man in the womb of the mother: It possesses at first a strange appearance; then this body passes from shape to shape and from form to form until it appears in the utmost beauty and perfection. But even when it possesses, in the womb of the mother, a strange form entirely different from its present shape and appearance, it is the embryo of a distinct species and not of an animal: The essence of the species [naw'] and the innate reality [mahiyah] undergo no transformation at all. ...the originality of the human species and the independence of the essence of man are clear and evident. SAQ#47.10-11 (was SAQ.184)

Such are the claims of the present-day philosophers. Such are their words, such are their claims, and such are the dictates of their imaginations. And so, after extensive research and armed with powerful arguments, they place man in the lineage of the animal, saying that at one time man was an animal, and that the species gradually changed and evolved until it reached the human degree. But the divine philosophers say: No, this is not so. SAQ#48.3-4 (was SAQ.186)

Certain European philosophers hold that species evolve and can even change and transform into other species.... The first answer to this argument is that the antecedence of animals to man is not a proof that the essence of the human species was altered or transformed or that man came from the animal kingdom. For so long as it is acknowledged that these different beings have appeared in time, it is possible that man simply came into existence after the animal. Thus we observe in the vegetable kingdom that the fruits of different trees do not appear all at once; on the contrary, some appear earlier in the season and others later. This priority is not a proof that the later fruit of one tree was produced from the earlier fruit of another. SAQ#49.3-4 (was SAQ.191-192)

...even if we were to suppose that certain animals, or even man, once possessed limbs which have now disappeared, this would not be a sufficient proof of the transformation of the species. For man, from the conception of the embryo until the attainment of maturity, assumes different forms and appearances. His appearance, form, features, and colour change; that is, he passes from form to form and from appearance to appearance. Yet, from the formation of the embryo he belongs to the human species; that is, it is the embryo of a man and not of an animal.... The same holds true in the vegetable kingdom, where we observe that the original and distinctive character of the species does not change, while its form, colour, and mass do change, transform, and evolve.... Just as man progresses, evolves, and is transformed from one form and appearance to another in the womb of the mother, while remaining from the beginning a human embryo, so too has man remained a distinct essence--that is, the human species--from the beginning of his formation in the matrix of the world, and has passed gradually from form to form. It follows that this change of appearance, this evolution of organs, and this growth and development do not preclude the originality of the species. Now, even accepting the reality of evolution and progress, nevertheless, from the moment of his appearance man has possessed perfect composition, and has had the capacity and potential to acquire both material and spiritual perfections and to become the embodiment of the verse, "Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness." [Cf. Gen 1:26] At most, he has become more pleasing, more refined and graceful, and by virtue of civilization he has emerged from his wild state, just as the wild fruits become finer and sweeter under the cultivation of the gardener, and acquire ever greater delicacy and vitality. SAQ#49.6-8 (was SAQ.193-194)

...the recurrence of the same divine appearance is impossible for material beings.... With respect to the species, however, return and recurrence are plainly visible in material realities; that is, the trees which in years past bore leaves, blossoms, and fruit will in the years to come bear the same leaves, blossoms, and fruit. This is called recurrence of species. SAQ#81.6-7 (was SAQ.284)

In regard to 'creation', say to the historian that in the same way that 'divinity' and 'lordship' have no beginning, 'creativity' and 'provision', and the other original divine perfections, also have no beginning and no end. In other words, creation has existed from the beginning that has no beginning and will last until the end that has no end. The species (naw') and essences of all things are permanent and changeless. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA9.027)

If man had not been put upon this earth the world would be dead.  I do not speak of the physical man, but the human attainments which are the adornment of existence.  If man did not exist, this world would have no beauty, no eternity, no object. ADP.128-129

...man has been man from his very inception and origin, and that the essence of his species has existed from eternity. SAQ#50.1 (was SAQ.195)

Similarly, the terrestrial globe was created, from the beginning, with all its elements, substances, minerals, parts, and components, but these appeared only gradually: first the minerals, then the plants, then the animals, and finally man. But from the beginning, these kinds and species were latent in the earthly realm and appeared gradually thereafter. For the supreme law of God and the universal natural order encompasses all things and subjects them to its rule. When you consider this universal order, you see that not a single thing reaches the limit of perfection immediately upon coming into existence, but grows and develops gradually until it reaches that stage. SAQ#51.5 (was SAQ.199)

If the human body (haykal) was originally not in its present composition, but was gradually transferred from one stage to another until it appeared in its present form [as the philosophers of the West say], then we would postulate that although at one time it was a swimmer and later a crawler, still it was human, and its species has remained unchanged. PUP.359, KHT2.304 (Revised translation in Brown (2001), 98)

We cannot prove that man was always man for this is a fundamental doctrine, but it is based on the assertion that nothing can exceed its own potentialities, that everything, a stone, a tree, an animal and a human being existed in plan, potentially, from the very 'beginning' of creation. We don't believe man has always had the form of man, but rather that from the outset he was going to evolve into the human form and species and not be a haphazard branch of the ape family. You see our whole approach to each matter is based on the belief that God sends us divinely inspired Educators. What they tell us is fundamentally true; what science tells us today is true, tomorrow may be entirely changed to better explain a new set of facts. (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Arohanui, p. 85)

In the world of existence man has traversed various stages until he has attained the human kingdom ('alam-i insani). In each stage the capacity (isti'dad) for ascent to the next stage has appeared. While in the kingdom of the mineral ('alam-i jamadi) the capacity to progress to the stage of the plant appeared, and, therefore, he came into the vegetable kingdom ('alam-i nabat). In the vegetable kingdom the capacity to progress into the world of the animal ('alam-i hayawan) was obtained, and thus he came into the animal kingdom. Similarly, from the world of the animal he came into the world of man. Throughout this journey of progression he has ever and always been potentially man. PUP.225-226, KHT2.170-171, revised trans. in Brown (2001), 86.

...between man and ape one link is missing. Great scientists and philosophers have searched for it, some even devoting their whole lives to solving this problem, but until now they have been unable to find that missing link... The link which they say is lost is itself a proof that man was never an animal. How is it possible to have all the links present and that important link absent? Though one spend this precious life searching for this link, it is certain that it will never be found. PUP.359, KHT2.304. Revised trans. in Brown (2001), 99.

...the world of humanity is distinct from the animal kingdom.  This is the teaching of the philosophers of the Orient.  They have a proof for it... PUP.359

Some of the philosophers of Europe think that evolution takes place from the genus to the species. But the prophets teach that this theory is in error, as we have explained already in the book Some Answered Questions. Nay, rather progress and development take place within the species itself. For instance, the seed of man gradually develops, passing through the stages of embryo, fetus, infant, child, and adolescent until intellectual maturity is attained. All the while it has progressed within the same species. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA2.069, AvK1.168-169; first part in Brown (2001), 84)

Man is the greatest member of the world of existence and the fruit of the tree of this visible universe. His species is eternal, and this eternal reality has no beginning and no end. That which the philosophers of Europe have stated in regard to human evolution - that man came from the kingdom of the mineral, the vegetable, and then the animal, is pure supposition, for his species has always existed. It may be that on this globe of earth in the beginning he was in the stage of a seed, and afterwards he evolved and attained the station of manifesting the words 'Blessed be God, the best of creators!' But that seed which evolved by degrees belonged to the human species, not an animal species. Therefore, this species is beyond time and from the outset was the noblest of creatures upon the earth. This is the truth, and naught lies beyond the truth but evident error. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT3:257, in Brown (2001), 107-108)

The forms assumed by the human embryo in its successive changes do not prove that it is animal in its essential character. Throughout this progression there has been a transference of type, a conservation of species or kind. Realizing this we may acknowledge the fact that at one time man was an inmate of the sea, at another period an invertebrate, then a vertebrate and finally a human being standing erect. Though we admit these changes, we cannot say man is an animal. In each one of these stages are signs and evidences of his human existence and destination.... in the protoplasm, man is man. Conservation of species demands it. PUP.359 (Last two sentences are not found in KHT2.304, and may be a later addition)

The species and essences of all things are permanent and changeless. Only within the limits of each species do progress and decline occur. In the human species, man's essence has always been preserved and unchanged and this was and will continue the same. As you will see from the ancient and human bodies which have been dried and embalmed and exhumed from the pyramids of Egypt 5,000 years after their death, there was not the slightest change or variation, not even a hair is different from the human beings of today. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA9.027. First two sentences in JBS5:4, p.61. Cf. Cuvier in Brown (2001), 16)

Man, as a distinct species, has been specifically and for the first time, asserted by 'Abdu'l-Baha in His "Some Answered Questions". (30 Jul. 1941, to a Committee of a National Spiritual Assembly)




Man is able to resist and oppose nature inasmuch as he discovers the natures of things and, by virtue of this discovery, has mastery over nature itself. Indeed, all the crafts that man has devised proceed from this discovery. For example, he has invented the telegraph, which connects the East and the West. It is therefore evident that man rules over nature. SAQ#1.4 (was SAQ.003-004)

Although man shares the same outward powers and senses in common with the animal, there exists in him an extraordinary power of which the animal is deprived.... ...man is endowed with a gift, and possesses a perfection, which is not present in the animal. ...man is endowed with a power of discovery that distinguishes him from the animal, and this power is none but the human spirit. ...Man alone can withstand nature. SAQ#48.4-10 (was SAQ.186-189)

It is clear then that if man did not possess a power beyond the animal powers, the animal would perforce surpass man in significant discoveries and in the comprehension of realities. It follows from this argument that man is endowed with a gift, and possesses a perfection, which is not present in the animal. Moreover, the animal perceives sensible things but cannot perceive conceptual realities. SAQ#48.5-6 (was SAQ.186)

All material phenomena are subject to nature. ...All things are captives of nature except man.... How does he accomplish it? Through a spirit with which God has endowed him at creation. PUP.258-259

God has created all earthly things under a law of progression in material degrees, but He has created man and endowed him with powers of advancement toward spiritual and transcendental kingdoms. PUP.302

Man is the most distinguished species in that he combines the perfections of all three classes--that is, he possesses a material body, the power of growth, and the power of sensation. Beyond the mineral, vegetable, and animal perfections, however, he also possesses a special perfection of which other created things are bereft, namely, the perfections of the mind. Thus man is the noblest of all existing things. SAQ#64.1 (was SAQ.235)

The incomparable Creator hath created all men from one same substance, and hath exalted their reality above the rest of His creatures. Success or failure, gain or loss, must, therefore, depend upon man's own exertions. The more he striveth, the greater will be his progress. GWB#034 p081-082

Man alone has freedom, and, by his understanding or intellect, has been able to gain control of and adapt some of those natural laws to his own needs. PT#11:6 p042

The superiority of man over the rest of the created world is seen again in this, that man has a soul in which dwells the divine spirit; the souls of the lower creatures are inferior in their essence. PT#05:12 p025

A human being is distinguished from an animal in a number of ways. First of all, he is made in the image of God, in the likeness of the Supernal Light, even as the Torah saith, 'Let us make man in our image, after our likeness [Genesis 1:26]'. This divine image betokeneth all the qualities of perfection whose lights, emanating from the Sun of Truth, illumine the realities of men.... SWAB#118 p140

...but man, weak and diminutive in comparison, empowered by mind which is an effulgence of Divinity itself, can resist nature's control and apply natural laws to his own uses. PUP.351

...the spirit of man can penetrate and discover the realities of all things, can solve the secrets and mysteries of all created objects. PUP.264

In the human world the characteristics of the mineral, vegetable and animal worlds are found and in addition that of the human kind, namely the intellectual characteristic, which discovereth the realities of things and comprehendeth universal principles. SWAB#030 p061-062

The animal is the captive of nature and cannot transgress the rules and laws thereof. In man, however, there is a discovering power that transcendeth the world of nature and controlleth and interfereth with the laws thereof.... Man ... though in body the captive of nature is yet free in his mind and soul, and hath the mastery over nature. Forel.10

Minerals, plants and animals are bereft of the mental faculties of man that discover the realities of all things, but man himself comprehendeth all the stages beneath him. Forel.15

...the world of man is supernatural in its relation to the vegetable kingdom, though in reality it is not so. Relatively to the plant, the reality of man, his power of hearing and sight, are all supernatural, and for the plant to comprehend that reality and the nature of the powers of man's mind is impossible. Forel.25

All live within the bounds of natural law, and nature is the ruler of all except man. Man is not the captive of nature... God has given to man certain powers which are supernatural. PUP.017

...human - the highest specialized organism of visible creation, embodying the qualities of the mineral, vegetable and animal plus an ideal endowment absolutely absent in the lower kingdoms - the power of intellectual investigation into the mysteries of outer phenomena.... man through the exercise of his scientific, intellectual power can rise out of this condition, can modify, change and control nature according to his own wishes and uses. Science, so to speak, is the breaker of the laws of nature.... He takes the sword from nature's hand and uses it upon nature's head. PUP.030

All the powers and attributes of man are human are hereditary in origin - except the intellect, which is supernatural.... We have already stated that science or the attribute of scientific penetration is supernatural and that all other blessings of God are within the boundary of nature.... The ideal faculties of man, including the capacity of scientific acquisition, are beyond nature's ken. PUP.049-051

What difference is there between the animal and man? The difference is this: that the animal is not capable of apprehending the divine teachings, whereas man is worthy of them and possesses the capacity to understand. PUP.061

Man is like the animal in physical structure but otherwise immeasurably separated and superior. PUP.067

The human kingdom is replete with the perfections of all the kingdoms below it with the addition of powers peculiar to man alone PUP.069

Man possesses certain virtues of which nature is deprived. PUP.079

God has deposited within the human creature an illimitable power by which he can rule the world of nature....it is evident that man is more noble and superior, that in him there is an ideal power surpassing nature. PUP.178

....man wrests the sword of dominion from nature's hand and uses it upon nature's head....  Man transcends nature, while the mineral, vegetable and animal are helplessly subject to it.  This can be done only through the power of the spirit, because the spirit is the reality. PUP.241

...in the human kingdom there is a reality of which the animal is lacking.... Although he possesses all the virtues of the lower kingdoms, he is further endowed with the spiritual faculty, the heavenly gift of consciousness. PUP.258

As he possesses sense endowment in common with animals, it is evident that he is distinguished above them by his conscious power of penetrating abstract realities. PUP.262

The station of man is great, very great. God has created man after His own image and likeness.... Verily, God has created the animal in the image and likeness of man, for though man outwardly is human, yet in nature he possesses animal tendencies. PUP.262-263

...this power to penetrate the ideal knowledges is superhuman, supernatural... PUP.302

It is clearly evident that while man possesses powers in common with the animal, he is distinguished from the animal by intellectual attainment, spiritual perception, the acquisition of virtues, capacity to receive the bestowals of Divinity, lordly bounty and emanations of heavenly mercy. This is the adornment of man, his honor and sublimity. PUP.332, Ruhi5.3.4

Briefly, the evidences of the intellect of man are manifest and clear. Man is man by reason of this intellectual faculty. Therefore, the animal kingdom is other than the human kingdom. PUP.358, KHT2.301 (revised translation by K. Brown)

...the world of humanity is distinct from the animal kingdom. This is the teaching of the philosophers of the Orient. They have a proof for it. The proof is that the animals are captives of nature.... But man breaks the laws of nature and makes them subservient to his uses.... in man there is present this supernatural force or faculty which discovers the realities of things and which possesses the power of idealization or intellection. PUP.359-360

This human body is purely animal in type and, like the animal, it is subject only to the grosser sensibilities.  It is utterly bereft of ideation or intellection, utterly incapable of the processes of reason.... we know that in the human organism there is a center of intellection, a power of intellectual operation which is the discoverer of the realities of things. PUP.417

The animal cannot escape the law of nature, whereas man may control it, for he, containing nature, can rise above it. The power of the Holy Spirit, enlightening man's intelligence, has enabled him to discover means of bending many natural laws to his will. PT#09:17-18 p037

All creation is made subject to the laws of nature, but man has been able to conquer these laws. PT#39:21 p122

Man has a sacred power beyond the confines of the senses.  The power of the rational mind is the power of the soul over the senses. ADP.095

Materially, man is the prisoner of nature; ... but when we consider the intelligence of man, an elephant is powerless before him, a lion is his prisoner... These are the signs of the crowning spiritual power of man - that power which can make nature his prisoner. ADP.095-096

The physical body of man is like that of the animal, the only difference being on the level of consciousness. SW v14#02 p037

When 'Abdu'l-Baha says man breaks the laws of nature, He means we shape nature to meet our own ends, as no animal does. Animals adapt themselves to better fit in with and benefit from their environment. But men both surmount and change environment. (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Arohanui, p. 85)

The power of the Holy Spirit, enlightening man's intelligence, has enabled him to discover means of bending many natural laws to his will... PT#09:18 p037

...without the Holy Spirit he would have no intellect, he would be unable to acquire his scientific knowledge by which his great influence over the rest of creation is gained. The illumination of the Holy Spirit gives to man the power of thought, and enables him to make discoveries by which he bends the laws of nature to his will. PT#17:10 p059

If love did not exist, what of reality would remain? It is the fire of the love of God which renders man superior to the animal. Strengthen this superior force through which is attained all the progress in the world. ADP.112, Ruhi5.2.20

All universal beings and particular beings are firmly bound by the chains and fetters of nature, unable to transgress by an atom's weight - save human beings. By nature's law, humans should be prey to wild beasts, yet humans make wild beasts their captives. Humans bequeath to future centuries the heritage of knowledge and science from present ages. By nature's law, cause and effect are yoked together, with effect vanishing upon the absence of cause - yet human effects become manifest after death. Humans, contrary to nature's law, make the fruitless tree bear fruit. Humans, opposing nature, transform deadly poisons into means of life, employing them as remedies. Humans reveal all earth's treasures - meaning minerals - which by nature's law are hidden and concealed. By nature's law, humans dwell upon the earth, yet through spiritual power they break these firm laws of nature and wrest the sword from nature's hand to strike nature's crown. They soar in the air, race upon the sea's surface, and journey beneath the waters. Humans are discoverers of nature's mysteries, while nature discovers not human mysteries. They bring forth realities and secrets from the realm of the unseen to the visible plane, and communicate with East and West in a minute - this is contrary to nature's law. They confine and imprison free sound within an instrument - this is contrary to nature's law. While remaining in their own center, they consult, confer and converse with distant places - this is contrary to nature's law. Humans confine and imprison electrical force - so powerful it splits mountains - within a glass bulb. While on earth, they make celestial discoveries - this is contrary to nature's law. Humans have free will, nature is compelled. Humans have consciousness, nature lacks consciousness. Humans are living, nature lacks life. Humans discover future matters, nature is heedless of them. Through known premises, humans discover unknown conclusions, while nature is powerless to do so. (Abdu'l-Baha, ABU0255, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.218, KHT3:012)

On all sides he is surrounded by dangers and difficulties, against which his physical body alone cannot cope. If a man looks at the world around him, he will see how all created things are dependent and are captive to the laws of Nature. Man alone, by his spiritual power, has been able to free himself, to soar above the world of matter and to make it his servant. PT#03:6-7 p020

...man's intelligence has been enabled to free him from the limitations of nature, and to solve many of her mysteries. Man, to a certain extent, has broken the chains of matter. The Holy Spirit will give to man greater powers than these, if only he will strive after the things of the spirit and endeavour to attune his heart to the Divine infinite love. PT#09:20 p038

O God, O Thou Who hast cast Thy splendour over the luminous realities of men, shedding upon them the resplendent lights of knowledge and guidance, and hast chosen them out of all created things for this supernal grace, and hast caused them to encompass all things, to understand their inmost essence, and to disclose their mysteries, bringing them forth out of darkness into the visible world!... And from amongst all creatures He hath singled out man, to grant him His most wondrous gift, and hath made him to attain the bounties of the Company on High. That most precious of gifts is attainment unto His unfailing guidance, that the inner reality of humankind should become as a niche to hold this lamp... COC#578, Ruhi7.2.4 (Abdu'l-Baha)




...if man remain in an undeveloped state from the point of view of capacity he is the lowest of creatures. ADP.111




The animal spirit is that all-embracing sensory power which is realized through the composition and combination of the elements. When this composition disintegrates, that spirit likewise perishes and becomes non-existent. It may be likened to this lamp: When oil, wick, and flame are brought together and combined, it is lit; and when this combination disintegrates--that is, when the constituent parts are separated from one another--the lamp also is extinguished. SAQ#55.4
