



The first Tajalli which hath dawned from the Day-Star of Truth is the knowledge (ma'arifat) of God - exalted be His glory. And the knowledge of the King of everlasting days can in no wise be attained save by recognizing Him Who is the Bearer of the Most Great Name.... Attainment unto the Divine Presence can be realized solely by attaining His presence.... TB.050

The source of all learning ('ulum) is the knowledge (irfan) of God, exalted be His Glory, and this cannot be attained save through the knowledge of His Divine Manifestation. TB.156

...the gnostics maintain the existence of only two worlds, the world of God and the world of the creature. The prophets, however, maintained the existence of three worlds: the world of God, the world of the Will or the Word, and the world of created things. The Prophets, therefore, maintained that a knowledge of God is impossible.... There is, therefore, only one way to God and that is through the realization of His Manifestation or Prophet in that age. Christ called the world of the Prophets the Word in the verse of "the Word became flesh" while 'Abdu'l-Baha calls it the Will. Anyhow it is only through these that we can know God. These manifest the divine attributes and therefore by knowing them we can know God. The mystic path that the traveller should follow is therefore to the Prophet. LG#1724, LG#1725 (29 Nov. 1929 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Now, all created things tell of this light, partake of its rays, and receive their portion thereof, but the full splendour of the perfections, bounties, and attributes of the Divinity shines forth from the reality of the Perfect Man, that is, that unique Individual Who is the universal Manifestation of God. For the other beings have each received only a portion of that light, but the universal Manifestation of God is the mirror held before this Sun, and the latter manifests itself therein with all its perfections, attributes, signs, and effects. The knowledge of the reality of the Divinity is in no wise possible, but the knowledge of the Manifestations of God is the knowledge of God, for the bounties, splendours, and attributes of God are manifest in Them. Thus, whoso attains to the knowledge of the Manifestations of God attains to the knowledge of God... SAQ#59.8-9 (was SAQ.222)

No one hath any way to the Reality of Deity except through the Instrumentality of the Manifestation.  To suppose to is a theory and not a fact. TAB.214

He Who is everlastingly hidden from the eyes of men can never be known except through His Manifestation, and His Manifestation can adduce no greater proof of the truth of His Mission than the proof of His own Person. GWB#020 p049

People like Emerson were undoubtedly inspired by God, for many of the thoughts that quicken us in this day were uttered and stimulated by them. Only gradually will we come to appreciate their work and place them in the growing world of ours. The tendency of these writers, however, is rather to diminish, rather than to enhance the position of the Prophet in civilization. These bid us come into communion with God by looking within us. They tell us that the Prophets were humans and that we can become like Them if we only strive. This renders religion, the religion of the few, the religion of only those who have experiences. LG#1723 (29 Nov. 1929 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Know thou that the Divine Reality, the Pure Essence, Whose attributes are unknowable, cannot be comprehended by minds and visions, nor encompassed by understandings and thoughts. Every insight falleth short of perceiving It, and every venture loseth in the quest to know It. How futile for the spiders of idle fancy to weave their webs in the corners of that exalted palace, or to seek to discover mysteries that no penetrating vision hath discovered! Whoso pointeth toward It raiseth but dust and increaseth the obscurity behind the veils. Nay, such attempts but demonstrate profound ignorance and betoken the existence of a thick covering. We have neither way nor proof to apprehend that Mighty Matter, for the path is barred and the quest rejected. It hath no designation that is absolute, nor attribute in the estimation of them that are illumined. Thus are we compelled to turn to the Dawning-Place of His light, the Center of His manifestation, the Dayspring of His signs, and the Source of His words. Whatsoever praise, attributes, most beautiful names, and most exalted characteristics we mention - all return to this Described One. We have no recourse but to turn in all matters toward that known Center, that promised Manifestation, that witnessed Dawning-Point. Otherwise, we would worship a supposed reality imagined in minds, a rejected creation, a mere fancy rather than conscious knowledge in the human realm - and this would be graver than the worship of idols, for idols at least have existence in the contingent world. As for the Divine Reality imagined in minds and thoughts - it is naught but fancy and falsehood, for the Universal Divine Reality, sanctified from every attribute and description, entereth not into the sphere of mental conception, such that man might imagine It. This is a self-evident truth, visible in the world of existence, requiring no explanation. Therefore, whatsoever lofty titles and transcendent attributes thou mayest conceive - all return to the Manifestation of Revelation and the Dawning-Place of Light revealed on the Mount. Say: Call upon God, or call upon the All-Merciful; by whichever name ye call, His are the most beautiful names. (Abdu'l-Baha, AB00319, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.028.12-030; MKT1:188; Min Makatib 93)

The knowledge of Him, Who is the Origin of all things, and attainment unto Him, are impossible save through knowledge of, and attainment unto, these luminous Beings who proceed from the Sun of Truth. By attaining, therefore, to the presence of these holy Luminaries, the "Presence of God" Himself is attained. KI#151 p142, Ruhi2.3.5

Since the dominions of the hearts and souls of men are completely unable to grasp the nature of the peerless Essence, it behoveth us to give praise to His First Creation, to His First Remembrance, His First Light, His First Advent, His First Revelation, His First Knowledge, His First Utterance, His First Manifestation, His First Dawning Place, His First Dayspring and His First Repository. And furthermore, it well beseemeth us to adorn the preamble of every book with His Name, inasmuch as He, verily, is the mouthpiece of God and His vicegerent. He is the Manifestation of the All-Pervading Light, through Whom the mysteries of first and last have been unravelled through dust. (Provisional translation, BH00277)




Exalted, immeasurably exalted, art Thou above the strivings of mortal man to unravel Thy mystery, to describe Thy glory, or even to hint at the nature of Thine Essence.... The loftiest sentiments which the holiest of saints can express in praise of Thee, ... all revolve around that Center (nuqtih) Which is wholly subjected to Thy sovereignty, Which adoreth Thy Beauty, and is propelled through the movement of Thy Pen. Nay, forbid it, O my God, that I should have uttered such words as must of necessity imply the existence of any direct relationship between the Pen of Thy Revelation and the essence of all created things. GWB#001 p003-004

The reality of the Divine Entity is holy above comprehension, beyond definition, and far from the reach of imagination, for that which is imagined is finite, of man, and thereto man is infinite; and certainly the infinite is greater than the finite. Therefore, it is made evident that what is imagined is a creation and not the Creator, for the Essence of Divinity is beyond human imagination. Now all people worship an imagination, for they have created a God in the realm of imagination and him they worship. If you ask a soul, when he is praying, who art thou worshiping? He will say, God. Which God? The God of my conception. When, in truth, what he imagines is not God. Hence, all people are worshippers of imaginations and ideals. Consequently, there is no pathway or escape for man except the Holy Manifestations, for, as we said the Essence of Divinity is pure, is holy and cannot be brought into the world of ideas. That which can be brought to ideation are the Holy and Divine Manifestations. Further than this, man has no other point for concentration. If he exceed that bound, it will be an imagination. Therefore, the purpose of the word "He is God" is this: That visible Majesty (the prophet) is the Promised Beauty of the Sun of Reality, the Manifestation of the mysteries of Divinity and Deity, the Revealer of the mysteries of the Merciful, the Origin of the signs of singleness. And I begin with His Blessed Name. (Table Talks By Abdu'l Baha, February 1907, pp. 4-5; cf. SAQ#089.2)




The door of the knowledge of the Ancient of Days being thus closed in the face of all beings, the Source of infinite grace ... hath caused those luminous Gems of Holiness to appear out of the realms of the spirit, in the noble form of the human temple, and be made manifest unto all men, that they may impart unto the world the mysteries of the unchangeable Being, and tell of the subtleties of His Imperishable Essence. KI#106 p099, GWB#019 p047, WOB.113

And since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to bind the one true God with His creation, and no resemblance whatever can exist between the transient and the Eternal, the contingent and the Absolute, He hath ordained that in every age and dispensation a pure and stainless Soul be made manifest in the kingdoms of earth and heaven. GWB#027 p066

Having barred the way that leadeth unto Thee, thou hast, by virtue of Thine authority and through the potency of Thy will, called into being Them Who are the Manifestations of Thy Self, and hast entrusted Them with Thy message unto Thy people, and caused Them to become the Day-Springs of Thine inspiration, the Exponents of Thy Revelation, the Treasuries of Thy Knowledge and the Repositories of Thy Faith.... PM#062 p099

The purpose of the one true God, exalted be His glory, hath been to bring forth the Mystic Gems out of the mine of man - they Who are the Dawning-Places of His Cause and the Repositories of the pearls of His knowledge; for, God Himself, glorified be He, is the Unseen, the One concealed and hidden from the eyes of men. ESW.013

As the essence of Divinity transcends the comprehension of man, therefore God brings forth certain Manifestations of the divine Reality upon Whom He bestows heavenly effulgences in order that They may be intermediaries between humanity and Himself. PUP.114

That Reality which is the Essence of God cannot be conceived of by any understanding; therefore, God has created a Manifestor, and in Him is reflected that Sanctified Reality.... They are like mirrors, and the Reality, the Essence, is like the sun. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 29)

Inasmuch as the recognition of the Eternal and Unseen Essence hath been impossible ..., He, therefore, hath enjoined all, from the beginning that hath no beginning to the end that hath no end, to recognize the Sun of Truth, Who is the Mirror of His Essence and the Primal Will, Who is the Throne of His Manifestation. He hath accepted the recognition of that Sun of Truth as the recognition of His own Reality... (The Bab, provisional translation, from the Panj Sha'n, GOH.184)




It is obvious and manifest that the true meaning of the utterances of the Birds of Eternity is revealed to none except those that manifest the Eternal Being, and the melodies of the Nightingale of Holiness can reach no ear save that of the denizens of the everlasting realm.... "None knoweth the meaning thereof except God and them that are well-grounded in knowledge". KI#016 p017

Those words uttered by the Luminaries of Truth must needs be pondered, and should their significance be not grasped, enlightenment should be sought from the Trustees of the depositories of Knowledge, that these may expound their meaning, and unravel their mystery. For it behooveth no man to interpret the holy words according to his own imperfect understanding... KI#199 p181-182

Inasmuch as it hath been clearly shown that only those who are initiated into the divine mysteries can comprehend the melodies uttered by the Bird of Heaven, it is therefore incumbent upon every one to seek enlightenment from the illumined in heart and from the Treasuries of divine mysteries regarding the intricacies of God's Faith and the abstruse allusions in the utterances of the Day-springs of Holiness. Thus will these mysteries be unravelled, not by the aid of acquired learning, but solely through the assistance of God and the outpourings of His grace. "Ask ye, therefore, of them that have the custody of the Scriptures, if ye know it not." KI#212 p191

"None knoweth the interpretation thereof but God and they that are well-grounded in knowledge." And when He Who is well-grounded in all knowledge, He Who is the Mother, the Soul, the Secret, and the Essence thereof, revealeth that which is the least contrary to their desire, they bitterly oppose Him... KI#237 p213

The people, therefore, must not allow such utterances to deprive them of the divine bounties, but should rather seek enlightenment from them who are the recognized Expounders thereof, so that the hidden mysteries may be unravelled, and be made manifest unto them. We perceive none, however, amongst the people of the earth who, sincerely yearning for the Truth, seeketh the guidance of the divine Manifestations concerning the abstruse matters of his Faith. KI#286 p256

Know assuredly that just as thou firmly believest that the Word of God, exalted be His glory, endureth for ever, thou must, likewise, believe with undoubting faith that its meaning can never be exhausted. They who are its appointed interpreters, they whose hearts are the repositories of its secrets, are, however, the only ones who can comprehend its manifold wisdom. GWB#089 p175




Generally speaking, we know that the soul of man can only approach the Creator through the Manifestation of God, and that we turn to God through His latest Manifestation, but we cannot state that this is the only way that an individual can contact God, for God's mercy is infinite. (15 Feb. 1952 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to Mr. Fred Sudhop)
