



By "the tree of life" is meant the highest degree of the world of existence, that is, the station of the Word of God and His universal Manifestation. That station was indeed well guarded, until it appeared and shone forth in the supreme revelation of His universal Manifestation. SAQ#30.7 (was SAQ.124)

Advance, O people, with snow-white faces and radiant hearts, unto the blest and crimson Spot, wherein the Sadratu'l-Muntaha is calling: 'Verily there is none other God beside Me, the Omnipotent Protector, the Self-Subsisting.' KA#100, ESW.128-129, GWB#098 p198

The Sadratu'l-Muntaha: Literally 'the furthermost Lote-Tree', translated by Shoghi Effendi as 'the Tree beyond which there is no passing'. This is used as a symbol in Islam, for example in the accounts of Muhammad's Night Journey, to mark the point in the heavens beyond which neither men nor angels can pass in their approach to God, and thus to delimit the bounds of divine knowledge as revealed to mankind. Hence it is often used in the Baha'i Writings to designate the Manifestation of God Himself. KA n128

That which they accepted from the Bush they now refuse to accept from Him Who is the Tree of the world of existence. TB.053

In a Tablet Baha'u'llah states, 'The Holy Tree [Sadrat] is, in a sense, the Manifestation of the One True God, exalted be He.' TB.137fn

Say, this of a certainty is the Garden of Repose, the loftiest Point of adoration, the Tree beyond which there is no passing, the blessed Lote-Tree, the Most Mighty Sign, the most beauteous Countenance and the most comely Face. SWB.155

Give ear unto the verses of God which He Who is the sacred Lote-Tree reciteth unto you. They are assuredly the infallible balance, established by God, the Lord of this world and the next. Through them the soul of man is caused to wing its flight towards the Dayspring of Revelation, and the heart of every true believer is suffused with light. Such are the laws which God hath enjoined upon you, such His commandments prescribed unto you in His Holy Tablet; obey them with joy and gladness, for this is best for you, did ye but know. KA#148
