



You have asked how we can harmonize scientific theories (philosophical ideas -- afkar-i-filaysufi) with the ideas of religion. Know that this material world is the mirror of the Kingdom, and each of these worlds is in complete correspondence with the other. The correct theories of this world which are the result of sound scientific [philosophical] thinking are in agreement with the divine verses without the slightest divergence between them, for the truth of all things is laid away in the treasuries of the Kingdom. When that truth is manifested in the material world, the archetypes and realities of beings attain realization. If a scientific theory [philosophical opinion -- ara'-i-falsafiyyih] does not correspond with the divine verses, it is certain that it is the essence of error. (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha in MKT3:172-173, provisional translation, as quoted in Brown (2001), xvi) Alternative translation 1: This nether world is a mirror the Kingdom, and each one is in full conformity with the other. Sound and sensible ideas arising from pure and genuine philosophies are completely consistent with the heavenly Writings. There is no difference whatsoever between the two, inasmuch as the inner essences of all things exist in the treasuries of the Kingdom. Once these inner essences are revealed in the physical world, they assume actual existence ... Should any philosophical views not conform to the heavenly Writings, it is certain that they are naught but error. (Malakut-i-Vujud, p. 181, AB00457) Alternative translation 2: Know thou that this nether world is the mirror of the Kingdom, and the former is exactly the counterpart of the latter. The sound opinions of the world, which are the results of philosophical right thinking, correspond to the Traces of the Kingdom, and there does not exist any difference whatever between them. (anon. pilgrim notes, May 1911, PN 1911_page_0008.jpg)

Know then that those mathematical [astronomical] questions which have stood the test of scrutiny and about the soundness of which there is no doubt are those that are supported by incontrovertible and logically binding proofs and by the rules of geometry as applied to astronomy; that are based on observations of the stars and careful astronomical research, and are in conformity with the principles of the universal themes expounded in the divine sciences. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:019) cf. "Thou hadst inquired about astronomy. Whatever dependeth on mathematics is acceptable, whereas the things previously established by the astrologers of old ... are figments of the imagination and products of the thinking of former generations, and are bereft of a firm foundation." (AB03340, https://adibmasumian.com/translations/ab03340/)

There are two Books: one is the Book of creation and the other is the written Book. The written Book consisteth of the heavenly Books which are revealed to the Prophets of God and have issued forth from the lips of His Manifestations. The Book of Creation is the preserved Tablet and the outspread Roll of existence. The Book of Creation is in accord with the written Book. (Abdu'l-Baha, MKT1:436-437, in Response, p. 13)

The meaning of the Kingdom (malakut) in its primary sense and degree is the scene of His transcendent glory. In another sense it is the world of similitudes ('alam-i-mithal) which existeth between the Dominion on high (jabarut) and this mortal realm (nasut); whatever is in the heavens or on the earth hath its counterpart in that world. Whilst a thing remaineth hidden and concealed within the power of utterance it is said to be of the Dominion (jabarut), and this is the first stage of its substantiation (taqyid). Whenever it becometh manifest it is said to be of the Kingdom (malakut). The power and potency it deriveth from the first stage, it bestoweth upon whatever lieth below. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tablet to Varqa, in "Relativism: A Basis for Baha'i Metaphysics", MA1.018)

Praise be to Him Who hath made the world of being, and hath fashioned all that is, Him Who hath raised up the sincere to a station of honour and hath made the invisible world to appear on the plane of the visible... SWAB#004 p013

...the outward is the expression of the inward: The earthly realm is the mirror of the heavenly Kingdom, and the material world is in accordance with the spiritual world.... ...since the recurrence of the same divine appearance is impossible for material beings, the repeated assumption of the same station, whether on the arc of descent or on the arc of ascent, is likewise impossible for spiritual beings, for the material world corresponds to the spiritual world. SAQ#81.6 (was SAQ.283-284)

...physical things are signs and imprints of spiritual things; every lower thing is an image and counterpart of a higher thing. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:016)

...if thou dost compare the ideal world to the human world and apply spiritual principles to physical matters thou wilt discover that this view is flimsier than a spider's web, because, just as the luminous spiritual worlds are sanctified above computation or limitation, so too are the physical worlds in this vast immensity of space. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:023-024)

The spiritual world is like unto the phenomenal world.  They are the exact counterpart of each other.  Whatever objects appear in this world of existence are the outer pictures of the world of heaven. PUP.010

Perchance, God willing, this terrestrial world may become as a celestial mirror upon which we may behold the imprint of the traces of Divinity, and the fundamental qualities of a new creation may be reflected from the reality of love shining in human hearts. PUP.235

The worlds of God are in perfect harmony and correspondence one with another. Each world in this limitless universe is, as it were, a mirror reflecting the history and nature of all the rest.  The physical universe is, likewise, in perfect correspondence with the spiritual or divine realm.  The world of matter is an outer expression or facsimile of the inner kingdom of spirit. The world of minds corresponds with the world of hearts. PUP.270

...whatever exists in heaven is reflected in this phenomenal world.... As a Persian Poet has written:  'The Celestial Universe is so formed that the under world reflects the upper world.' AL.046

When the reflection or physical bounty of the world of creation is infinite how is it possible to circumscribe the reality, or spiritual bounty, which is the basis of the divine creation?  The spiritual world is so much greater than the physical world that in comparison with it the physical world is non-existent. ADP.168-169

...the world (the cosmos) is a reflection of the Creator. The Godhead is represented in the category (the image) of the light, the sun, and the created (the world) is a reflection of Divine Light, for the relationship of the created to the Creator is incomprehensible and can only be seen and represented in a pale comparison (analogy). (Fallscheer notes, p. 27)

Whatever there is in the world of contingency is a symbol of the spiritual world; whatever there is on earth is a symbol of heavenly things. (Pilgrim notes of George Winterburn, Table Talks with Abdu'l-Baha, 1904)

...know that the world of creation is in perfect conformity to the Heavenly Kingdom, and that the material growth coincides with the spiritual, and that the material world is nothing more than published and corresponding signs which denote the conditions and the perfections of Divinity. ('Abdu'l-Baha, Tablets Revealed by the Blessed Perfection and Abdul-Beha Abbas (Board of Counsel, New York, 1900), p. 5)

The visible world comes forth from the world of malakut just as the shadow comes forth from the thing that throws it, the fruit comes forth from the tree, and the effect comes forth from the cause. The keys to knowledge of effects are found only in their causes. Hence, the visible world is a similitude of the world of malakut. (Al-Ghazali, The Niche of Lights, p. 12; 27)

The heavens are the token of My greatness; look upon them with a pure eye. The stars bear witness to My truth; bear ye likewise witness thereto. TU.4#02

Know thou that whatsoever can be found in this mortal world (nasut), this realm of limitation--every name and description, every form and attribute that can be seen or heard--hath, in each world of the worlds of God, manifestations and appearances corresponding to and befitting that world, and appearing with another name, another description, another form and another attribute. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Haqqu'n-Nass, MA7.120, also translated here)

Then came forth flowers of mystic learning, and, bespeaking the knowledge of God, fresh greenery from the ground. The contingent world displayed God's bounteous gifts, the visible world reflecting the glories of realms that were hidden from sight. SWAB#002 p008

Therein flow the oceans of eternity, whilst this city itself revolveth round the seat of eternity. Therein the sun of the Unseen shineth resplendent above the horizon of the Unseen, a sun that hath its own heavens and its own moons, which partake of its light and which rise from and set upon the ocean of the Unseen. GDM#114 p077

That which is below is like that which is above, and that which is above is like that which is below, to do the miracles of one only thing. And as all things have been arose from one by the mediation of one: so all things have their birth from this one thing by adaptation. (The Emerald Tablet of Hermes, Isaac Newton's translation)

Question: How can we compare philosophical thoughts with religious thoughts? Answer:




When, however, thou dost contemplate the innermost essence of all things, and the individuality of each, thou wilt behold the signs of thy Lord's mercy in every created thing, and see the spreading rays of His Names and Attributes throughout all the realm of being, with evidences which none will deny save the froward and the unaware. Then wilt thou observe that the universe is a scroll that discloseth His hidden secrets, which are preserved in the well-guarded Tablet. And not an atom of all the atoms in existence, not a creature from amongst the creatures but speaketh His praise and telleth of His attributes and names, revealeth the glory of His might and guideth to His oneness and His mercy: and none will gainsay this who hath ears to hear, eyes to see, and a mind that is sound. And when thou dost gaze upon creation all entire, and dost observe the very atoms thereof, thou wilt note that the rays of the Sun of Truth are shed upon all things and shining within them, and telling of that Day-Star's splendours, Its mysteries, and the spreading of its lights. SWAB#019 p041

...the existence of the world itself 'means' something, 'wants to say' something... the world is neither mute nor opaque... it is not an inert thing without purpose or significance. For religious man, the cosmos 'lives' and 'speaks'. The mere life of the cosmos is proof of its sanctity.... This is why, beginning at a certain stage of culture, man conceives of himself as a microcosm. (Eliade, The Sacred and the Profane, p.165)         ...for the nonreligious men of the modern age, the cosmos has become opaque, inert, mute; it transmits no message, it holds no cipher. Ibid. 178

It is He who sendeth down rain out of Heaven:  from it is your drink; and from it are the plants by which ye pasture.  By it He causeth the corn, and the olives, and the palm-trees, and the grapes to spring forth for you, and all kinds of fruits; verily in this are signs for those who ponder.  Qur'an 16:10-11

Hermes: ...And it is not difficult, my son, to contemplate God in thought, or even, if you will, to see him. Look at the order of the Kosmos; look at the necessity which governs all that is presented to our sight, and the providence shown in things that have been, and in things that come to be; look at matter filled to the full with life, and see this great god [Kosmos] in movement, with all things that are contained in him. Tat: But these, father, are nothing but forces at work. Hermes: If they are forces at work, my son, who is it that works them? Is it not God? Do you not know that, just as heaven and earth and water and air are parts of the Kosmos, even so destiny and necessity and providence and nature ar parts of God? And there is nothing that comes to be or has come to be, in which God is not. (Corpus Hermeticum, Lib. xii:21, p. 237, W. Scott trans.)




This present life is even as a swelling wave, or a mirage, or drifting shadows. Could ever a distorted image on the desert serve as refreshing waters?... Know that the Kingdom (Malakut) is the real world, and this nether plane is only its shadow stretching out. SWAB#150 p177-178

in Intellect there is desire and a movement to convergence with its form. Intellect is, certainly, beautiful, and the most beautiful of all; its place is in pure light and pure radiance and it includes the nature of real beings; this beautiful universe of ours is a shadow and image of it. Plotinus, Enn.III.8.11

The world is but a show, vain and empty, a mere nothing, bearing the semblance of reality. Set not your affections upon it....Verily I say, the world is like the vapor in a desert, which the thirsty dreameth to be water and striveth after it with all his might, until when he cometh unto it, he findeth it to be mere illusion. GWB#153 p328-329

Know ye that the world is even as a mirage rising over the sands, that the thirsty mistaketh for water. SWAB#157 p186

The sophists hold that all existence is illusory, indeed, that each and every being is an absolute illusion that has no existence whatsoever--in other words, that the existence of created things is like a mirage, or like the reflection of an image in water or in a mirror, which is merely an appearance devoid of any basis, foundation, or ascertainable reality. This notion is false, for although the existence of things is an illusion compared to the existence of God, yet in the contingent world it is established, proven, and undeniable. ...although created things have no existence compared to that of God, being instead like a mirage or an image reflected in a mirror, yet in their own degree they exist. SAQ#79.1-3 (was SAQ.278)

This mortal world is fickle and unstable like unto a shifting shadow, and the human life is like unto a mirage and a reflection on the water. TAB.202

Know ye that the world is like unto a mirage which the thirsty one thinks to be water; its water is a vapor; its mercy a difficulty; its repose hardship and ordeal... TAB.407

Verily, this mundane world is as the mirage of the desert, but the Kingdom is like unto a sea of great surges and rolling waves. TAB.660

That which thou beholdest in this temporal world are the fleeting shadows of the world of the Kingdom and the external images of the celestial realm. This is why thou observest that these shadows and forms are continuously being renewed. They are not permanent, but the succession of similar forms and like states is such as to give the appearance of constancy. In the end, however, it will become clear that it was a mirage, not real water; illusions, not the realities of the signs. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Muntakhabat 3:23. In K. Brown, "Creation")

The world and its vanities, and its glory, and whatever delights it can offer, are all, in the sight of God, as worthless as, nay, even more contemptible than, dust and ashes. GWB#139 p304

Wert thou to consider this world, and realize how fleeting are the things that pertain unto it, thou wouldst choose to tread no path except the path of service to the Cause of thy Lord. None would have the power to deter thee from celebrating His praise, though all men should arise to oppose thee. GWB#144 p314

O My servants! Were ye to discover the hidden, the shoreless oceans of My incorruptible wealth, ye would, of a certainty, esteem as nothing the world, nay, the entire creation. GWB#153 p323

Were the world to last as long as Thine own kingdom will last, to set their affections upon it would still be unseemly for such as have quaffed, from the hands of Thy mercy, the wine of Thy presence; how much more when they recognize its fleetingness and are persuaded of its transience. PM#070 p116

Man in this age has learned the weight of the sun, the path of a star, the movement of an eclipse--the advance step now is to learn the expansion of the inflexible law of matter into the subtler kingdom of spirit, which contains a finer gravitation which holds the balance of power from age to age unbroken. Blessed is that soul who knows that against all appearances, the nature of things works for truth and right forever.... The emancipated soul sees with the eyes of perfect faith because it knows what vast provisions are made to enable it to gain the victory over every difficulty and trial. Yet man must ever remember the earth plane is a workshop, not an art gallery for the exhibits of powers. This is not the plane of perfection, but earth is the crucible for refining and moulding character. (Words of Abdu'l-Baha to Marie Watson in 1921, SW v16#05, ABU0064)




Look at the world and ponder a while upon it. It unveileth the book of its own self before thine eyes and revealeth that which the Pen of thy Lord, the Fashioner, the All-Informed, hath inscribed therein. It will acquaint thee with that which is within it and upon it and will give thee such clear explanations as to make thee independent of every eloquent expounder. TB.141-142

There are two Books: one is the Book of creation and the other is the written Book. The written Book consisteth of the heavenly Books which are revealed to the Prophets of God and have issued forth from the lips of His Manifestations. The Book of Creation is the preserved Tablet and the outspread Roll of existence. The Book of Creation is in accord with the written Book. (Abdu'l-Baha, MKT1:436-437, in Response, p. 13)

...realize that all the created things are as letters and words... TAB.537
