



There are two Books: one is the Book of creation and the other is the written Book. The written Book consisteth of the heavenly Books which are revealed to the Prophets of God and have issued forth from the lips of His Manifestations. The Book of Creation is the preserved Tablet and the outspread Roll of existence. The Book of Creation is in accord with the written Book. (Abdu'l-Baha, MKT1:436-437, in Response, p. 13)

Thou didst establish His covenant with every one who hath been created in the kingdoms of earth and heaven and in the realms of revelation and of creation. PM#031 p036     Magnified be Thy name, O Thou Who hast power over all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth, Whose dominion embraceth whatsoever is in the heaven of Thy Revelation and the kingdom of Thy creation. PM#080 p133

Unto Him pertaineth all glory and majesty in the kingdoms of Revelation and Creation and whatever lieth between them. SWB.171     And all sovereignty is Thine, extending beyond the uttermost range of the kingdoms of Revelation and Creation. SWB.173     Thine in truth are the Kingdoms of Creation and Revelation, and verily in our Lord have we placed our whole trust. SWB.176     Thine is sovereignty; in Thy hand are the Kingdoms of Creation and Revelation; in Thy right hand Thou holdest all created things and within Thy grasp are the assigned measures of forgiveness. SWB.178     Thine are the kingdoms of Creation and Revelation, O Thou Who art the Lord of all the worlds. SWB.185     I glorify Thee moreover and render Thee thanks as beseemeth Thine awe-inspiring presence and the glory of Thine overpowering majesty, for this sublime blessing, this wondrous sign which is manifest in Thy kingdoms of Revelation and Creation. SWB.195

Do not all the Prophets teach: there are two worlds, a spiritual one - the Malakut-i-Allah - the realm of God - and a material world, the world of nature in the widest meaning. (Fallscheer notes, p. 9)

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him. His are the kingdoms of Revelation and of creation. PM#182 p315




Know that created things are of two kinds: material and spiritual, sensible and intelligible. That is, some are perceptible to the senses, while others are only perceived by the mind. SAQ#74.1 (was SAQ.263)




According to the Baha'i conception, the soul of man, or in other words his inner spiritual self or reality, is not dualistic. There is no such thing, as the Zoroastrians believe, a double reality in man, a definite higher self and lower self. These two tendencies for good or evil, are but manifestations of a single reality or self. The latter is capable of development in either way. LG#698 (25 May 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
