



Is matter corporeal? (careful!: Enn.III.6.6, Enn.II.4) If it is not, then what is? What does modern physics say about the corporeality of matter? What is corporeality? (in the end there are no "things", only ever shifting patterns; dynamic configurations of energy and probability. All things are in motion.)     Is matter indestructible? (consider the conservation of mass-energy)     Is matter intrinsically good or evil? (Enn.I.8, II.4: matter is pure evil and ultimate negativity)     Whence does matter arise?     How does form impress itself upon matter? Is matter affected at all by the forms, or is it merely a sterile receptacle reflecting the forms? (Enn.III.6.12-14)     Is matter purely passive, the substrate and receptacle of forms (Phys A.9.192a33, Tim 49A6, Enn.II.4.1) or does it have its own intrinsic activity/motion?     Are matter and form absolute categories or are they relative to their position in the material/intelligible world?: the something like matter There [in the intelligible world] is form, since the soul too, which is form, can be matter to something else. Enn.II.5.3     Infinity of the forms not a problem: We ought not to be afraid of the infinity which this introduces into the intelligible world: for it is all in an indivisible unity and, we may say, comes forth when it acts. Enn.V.7.1     BUT the forms are not infinite: it would be absurd to introduce many Ideas of fire in order that each individual fire might be formed by a different one; for in this way the Ideas will be infinite in number. Enn.VI.5.8; see also V.9.14     the Form at rest is the defining limit of Intellect, and Intellect is the movement of the Form. Enn.VI.2.8     The Forms contain their own reason: For what a thing is is the reason why it is.... If also you open each individual form itself back upon itself, you will find the reason why in it. Enn.VI.7.2 And at this level the why and the that are one: So there in the intelligible the reason why was before and with the things and was not a 'why', but a 'that'; but rather both are one. Enn.VI.7.2




...in philosophy the spirit is energy and all matter is endowed with energy; and this power is inseparable from matter, as in electricity. In other words, matter is a vehicle for spirit but the transformation of matter does not involve the extinction of that power because transformation and transference are in the properties of matter.... The manifestation or appearance of the spirit varies due to changes in matter and bodies. (Mahmud's Diary, 17 Oct. 1912, p. 335)

The essence of existence is a spiritual reality because invisible forces of the spirit are the origin of matter and the foundation thereof. (From a letter of Shoghi Effendi, 18 Feb. 1930, translated from the Persian, published in the Journal of Baha'i Studies, vol. 2, no. 3, p.29, fn22)




the generality of the Sufis understand by "Existence" that common existence which is conceived by the mind and intellect of man, that is, which man can comprehend. This common existence, however, is only one accident among others that enter upon the realities of created things, while the essences [mahiyyat] of beings are the substance [jawhar]. This accidental existence, which is dependent upon things in the same way that the properties of things are dependent upon them, is but one accident among many. Now, the substance is undoubtedly superior to the accident, for the substance is primary and the accident secondary; the substance subsists through itself while the accident subsists through something else--that is, it needs a substance through which it can subsist. SAQ#82.7-9 (was SAQ.292)

Is motion itself a "substance"? (Enn.II.6.1)     What is the relationship between substance and form? Are there cases where the form is substance? (Enn.II.6.2)       [see also Evolution: conservation of species]

The substance (jawhar) is a single word which hath shone forth from the mouth of the Will, and by it the heat appeared which God made to be the cause of motion in the universe. By it all things came forth. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in "Fa'il va Munfa'il" 'Andalib v5#19 p. 33)

...the bearer of the essence (jawhar) is the active agent (fa'il)... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.037)

There is but one reality and one essence that is expounded in the worlds of outer form, and, at each of its stages, is described by a specific name ... in accordance with the degrees of its particular manifestations on the plane of this limited world. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in "A Baha'i Perspective on the Origin of Matter", JBS2:3 p.41-42)

Those preeminent Sufis who founded the doctrine of the "unity of existence" [wahdat al-wujud] never intended by this term the universally predicated existence which is conceived by the mind. For such an existence is but an accident among others occurring in association with the realities of things.[1] That is to say, these realities are the substance [jawhar], whereas that existence which is conceived by the mind, the universally predicated existence, is but an accident associated with them. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:354) [1] The meaning of the phrase `arid bar haqa'iq-i-mumkinat mishavad , translated here as "occurring in association with the realities of things," may be "occurring to the realities of things." A parallel passage in Mufavadat (i.e., Some Answered Questions) uses the expression hulul bar haqa'iq-i-ka'inat, which can mean "inhering in," "occurring to," and "descending upon." In other words, this external existence, to which we mentally predicate the attribute of existence, is an accident subsisting through (qa'im bi) the realities of things (See Abdu'l-Baha, Mufavadat [New Delhi: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1984] 203).

The fact that the word, latif, is one of the Divine Names [Qur'an 31:16] is, for Ibn 'Arabi, extremely significant. The Name latif or 'Subtle' with this particular connotation represents the Absolute as a Substance (jawhar) which, immaterial and invisible, permeates and pervades the entire world of Being just as a color permeates substances. This substance which is infinitely variable runs through everything and constitutes its reality. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 141. Ibn 'Arabi identifies this Substance with the Absolute [al-Haqq]: "However (there is also a fundamental difference between my position and the Ash'arites; namely), I assert that (the Substance here in question) is nothing other than the 'Absolute', while the (Ash'arite) theologians imagine that what is called Substance, although it is a 'reality', is not the same absolute Reality as understood by the people who (uphold the theory of) 'unveiling' and 'self-manifestation'. But this (i.e. what I teach) is the profound meaning of God's being latif." (from the Fusus, quoted in ibid., p. 142) This identification is probably from the standpoint of tajalli, and not the Essence (dhat), as Ibn 'Arabi elsewhere states: "The Reality called the 'Essence at the level of Unity' (al-dhat al-ahadiyah) in its true nature is nothing other than Being (wujud) pure and simple in so far as it is Being. It is conditioned neither by non-determination nor by determination, for in itself it is too sacred (muqaddas) to be qualified by any property or any name. It has no quality, no delimitation; there is not even a shadow of multiplicity in it. It is neither a substance nor an accident..." ibid., p. 25. Cf. 'Abdu'l-Baha: "As to the station of the Godhead, it is exalted above and sanctified beyond the understanding of all created things, how much more above resolving itself into their realities!" provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:356)

It is the jawhar from which arises...the constitutive frame of this world. A group of people calls it hayula.... As for jawhar, God protect you, it is the one thing by which the interstices are filled (al-mamlu' bihi al-khalal). It is capable of taking any form. Everything is in it, everything is constituted out of it, and everything dissolves back to it. If this account does not enable you to understand what substance is, then it is the dust (al-haba'), and its color is somewhat white. And when the sun radiates on it, it becomes inflamed and visible. Thus you ought to know that it is the mass (jirm) of the Supreme Luminous Sphere.... This is the body which is in all three kingdoms of nature, namely animals, plants and stones.... It is not possible for anyone to perceive jawhar by the sense of touch. Even if someone comes into contact with it, he will not find it perceptible to touch. Nobody can handle jawhar by his hand... (Jabir Ibn Hayyan, in Syed Nomanul Haq, Names, Natures and Things, pp. 54-56)




The realities of all phenomena are immutable and unchangeable. Extinction and mortality are nothing but the transformation of pictures and images, but the reality back of these images is eternal. Every reality of the realities of life is one of the bounties of God. SW v07#13 p119 (Talk in Wimbledon England, 3 Jan. 1913)

...every part of the universe is connected with every other part by ties that are very powerful and admit of no imbalance, nor any slackening whatever.... Physical bodies are transferred past one barrier after another, from one life to another, and all things are subject to transformation and change, save only the essence of existence itself - since it is constant and immutable, and upon it is founded the life of every species and kind, of every contingent reality throughout the whole of creation. SWAB#137 p157




The sun is born of matter and form, which can be likened to father and mother, and still it is absolute perfection; darkness has neither matter nor form, neither father nor mother, and yet it is sheer imperfection. SAQ#18.2 (was SAQ.089)

For the motion of the hand of the writer is not the source of the writing itself, but only the cause of its coming into being. But the writing is composed from the ink and the form of the ink.... The recipient of the action (al-maf'ul) is not composed from the action but existentiated by the action and composed from matter and form. (Shaykh Ahmad, Sharh al-Masha'ir p. 153. Translated in Brown (2001), 73)

The 'E' (nun) in the stage of utterance [exposition] is the same as the 'B' (kaf). It is the totality of the possible (imkan), and the possible itself in the world of contingency is fully contained in the word 'Be!' (kun). The Kaf is the stage of the Will (mashiyyat) and the Nun is the stage of Purpose (iradih). Mashiyyat is the Father of things and Iradih the Mother. As He [Muhammad] hath stated: ' 'Ali and I are the parents of this people.' Through the Kaf God created the matter (madda) of all things...and through the Nun God created the form (Sura) of all things. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir-i Bismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim, cited by M. Afnan in Ahang-i Badi', vol. 24 (126 B.E.), no. 5-6, p. 126. INBA 60:48-49, also INBA 64:74; quoted here)

they have said that the potentialities (qabiliyat) and the recipients of the potentialities (maqbulat) came into being and were created simultaneously. For example it has been stated that all things are composed of two elements: the 'Fashioner' (qabil) and the 'Fashioned' (maqbul). By 'Fashioned' is meant substance (madda) and primary matter (hayula), and by 'Fashioner' is meant form and shape, which confine and limit the primary matter from its state of indefiniteness and freedom to the courtyard of limitation and definite form. For example, letters and words are composed of two things: The first is the substance which is ink and pencil lead and is the 'Fashioned' while the second is the forms and features of the letters and words which are the 'Fashioner'. Now this specific substance and this specific form were created simultaneously although the general substance was created before the specific form. It is clear that, before the existence of this specific form and shape, the ink had an external existence which had no specific form or shape and had the ability and potential to assume the shape of any letter or word and was not restricted or specified to a particular shape or form. Similarly, the general shape and form had an existence before substance specified them since before being specified by substance (which is ink or pencil lead) the general shape and form of letters and words had a mental existence in the mind of the writer. Moreover, general form and general substance were also created simultaneously. For it is not possible for a thing to have an external existence and not to be formed into a shape because substance and primal matter in order to exist need shape and form; while shape and form in order to appear need substance. Thus has it been said: Substance needs form to endure; In attaining shape it has imprisoned form. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:037)
