



The letters (alphabet) and the numbers (arithmetic) have a mystic correspondence with transcendent reality. The letters and numbers are the elements (stoicheia) of the spiritual and the material worlds. As words these elements are the source of all things intellectual, as letters they represent the source of matter. The plurality (27 to 28) of the letters can be traced back to the point (nuqtih), in the case of the numbers, to the one. The point of the world of letters and the one of the world of numbers thus become a universal principle which conditions, penetrates and limits the world of appearances. Every prophet, from Adam to Baha'u'llah, has shown Himself to be the Logos, the Demiurge, the Manifestation, the Emanation of the All-Highest Godhead; the Prophet proves His God-given creative power by producing a book, the letters and numerical values of which represent a counterplay (reflection) of transcendent reality. (Fallscheer notes, pp. 19-20; 7 Feb. 1910)

The novel thoughts thou hast expressed as to the symbolism contained in the word "sparrow" were considered. Thou appearest to be well grounded in mystic truth. However, in each realm, to every letter a meaning is allotted which pertaineth to that realm. Indeed, the wayfarer findeth a secret in every name and a mystery in every letter. CDB#2.91 (was SV.42)

To support these hermeneutic unveilings, much use was made of the cabalistic manipulation of words, the 'science of letters' that was traditional to Shi'i esotericism and much encouraged by the Bab. By translating words into their numerical equivalents and then transforming these into new words, manifest hidden meanings could be unveiled. By such means certain numbers assumed great symbolic value. In particular, the ubiquitous nineteen (equivalent to {wahid} (unity), and {wujud} (God's absolute being)) came to be employed in the very structure of religious life in such areas as communal organization and the derivation of a new calendar. (in Peter Smith, The Babi & Baha'i Religions, p. 37)

In Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa'i's view, then, a primordial text, the Preserved Tablet or the Leaf, made of letters, influences the unfoldment of human existence. Human beings are, indeed, the embodiments of that preexistent text on earth. They are also subject to the same forces that shape the Leaf, being pulled upward toward the subtle, simple plane of the Universal Intellect, and earthward by the heavy gravity of gross matter and complexity. Each of the primordial letters out of which the world was made corresponds to both a name of God and to a plane of reality. His schema in this regard resembles, but is not identical to, the correspondences put forward by Ibn `Arabi, who also held that the twenty-eight basic letters come together to form all things in the cosmos. (in Juan Cole, "The World as Text: Cosmologies of Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa'i", http://www-personal.umich.edu/~jrcole/ahsai2.htm)

...for the Bab, words and letters are not the only things endowed with spiritual reference: He extensively interprets all things in this symbolic logic, and His use of linguistic signs is just one example of this universal semiotics. Yet, given the prevalence, particularly among the Shaykhis, of the millenarian expectation that the Qa'im would unveil the inner meanings of the disconnected letters of the Qur'an, it was inevitable that the Bab would often use this particular symbolic medium, focusing on alphabetic letters, to convey His message. (Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 53)




Regarding your various questions: We must avoid giving the impression of being all tied up with peculiar religious theories; on the other hand, the 9 sides of the Temple, and the 9-pointed star require an explanation, and he feels the best one is this: Nine is the highest digit, hence symbolizes comprehensiveness, culmination; also, the reason it is used in the Temple's form is because 9 has the exact numerical value of Baha (in the numerology connected with the Arabic alphabet) and Baha, is the name of the Revealer of our Faith, Baha'u'llah. The 9-pointed star is not a part of the Teachings of our Faith, but only used as an emblem representing '9'. In telling people of the 9 religions of the world, that is, existing religions, we should not give this as the reason the Temple has 9 sides. This may have been an idea of the architect, and a very pleasing idea, which can be mentioned in passing, but the Temple has 9 sides because of the association of 9 with perfection, unity and 'Baha'. The Guardian feels that with intellectuals and students of religion the question of exactly which are the existing religions is controversial, and it would be better to avoid it. He does not want the friends to be rigid in these matters, but use their judgement and tact, sometimes one statement is exactly the right for one type of mind and wrong thing another. Strictly speaking the 5-pointed star is the symbol of our Faith, as used by the Bab and explained by Him. But the Guardian does not feel it is wise or necessary to complicate our explanations of the Temple by adding this. LG#1375 (28 Oct. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
