



Souls are inclined toward estrangement. Steps should first be taken to do away with this estrangement, for only then will the Word take effect. SWAB#209 p265

The friends of God should weave bonds of fellowship with others and show absolute love and affection towards them. These links have a deep influence on people and they will listen. When the friends sense receptivity to the Word of God, they should deliver the Message with wisdom. They must first try and remove any apprehensions in the people they teach. In fact, every one of the believers should choose one person every year and try to establish ties of friendship with him, so that all his fear would disappear. Only then, and gradually, must he teach that person. This is the best method. COC#1924 ('Abdu'l-Baha)




Center your energies in the propagation of the Faith of God. Whoso is worthy of so high a calling, let him arise to promote it. Whoso is unable, it is his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this Revelation... GWB#096 p196-197




To be most effective, teaching needs more than proclamation. The message needs to be conveyed personally from one soul to another in a spirit of love. Shoghi Effendi talks about the "art" of teaching. To excel in such an art requires courage, effort, constant application, the pain of uncertainty and an enormous willingness to take risks and suffer rebuffs.... To them must be added audacity, joy, and confident reliance on the confirmations of the Holy Spirit. Ingenuity is also required, and perseverance. Although it may not be easy to meet people in order to teach them the Faith, let the friends never lose heart. There are ways if one seeks them with sufficient determination. Teaching the Faith comprises not merely offering a marvellous message, but conveying a feeling of enthusiasm and excitement at this message. (12 Sep. 1991 from the Universal House of Justice, quoted here)




The proclamation of the Faith, following established plans and aiming to use on an increasing scale the facilities of mass communication must be vigorously pursued. It should be remembered that the purpose of proclamation is to make known to all mankind the fact and general aim of the new Revelation, while teaching programmes should be planned to confirm individuals from every stratum of society. Ridvan.1974, M63-86 141.9, Ruhi6.3.1

The International Teaching Centre has concluded that the Baha'i institutions in ... seem to have been placing too much reliance on large, expensive projects, involving a great deal of successful public relations and proclamation. These are, in their own way, very useful activities, but it must be realized that they cannot be expected to produce large numbers of new believers. The key to the conversion of people to the Faith is the action of the individual Baha'i conveying the spark of faith to individual seekers, answering their questions and deepening their understanding of the teachings. (9 Feb. 1989 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, in the compilation on Promoting Entry by Troops)

Teaching individually is of great importance, and often enables you to confirm people, whereas public speaking, while it carries the Message to more people, does not confirm very many. You can do both. COC#1968 (5 Aug. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Having on his own initiative, and undaunted by any hindrances with which either friend or foe may, unwittingly or deliberately, obstruct his path, resolved to arise and respond to the call of teaching, let him carefully consider every avenue of approach which he might utilize in his personal attempts to capture the attention, maintain the interest, and deepen the faith, of those whom he seeks to bring into the fold of his Faith. Let him survey the possibilities which the particular circumstances in which he lives offer him, evaluate their advantages, and proceed intelligently and systematically to utilize them for the achievement of the object he has in mind.... ADJ#078 p051, Ruhi6.3.23

A new hour has struck in history of our beloved Cause, calling for nation-wide, systematic, sustained efforts in teaching field, enabling thereby these forces to be directed into such channels as shall redound to the glory of our Faith and to the honor of its institutions. MA.005-006, Ruhi6.3.25 (26 Oct. 1935 from Shoghi Effendi)

A systematic, carefully conceived, and well-established plan should be devised, rigorously pursued and continuously extended. MA.007, Ruhi6.3.25 (30 May 1936 from Shoghi Effendi)

An unprecedented, a carefully conceived, efficiently co-ordinated, nation-wide campaign, aiming at the proclamation of the Message of Baha'u'llah, through speeches, articles in the press, and radio broadcasts, should be promptly initiated and vigorously prosecuted. MA.062 (28 Mar. 1943 from Shoghi Effendi)

Above all, the healing Message of Baha'u'llah must during the opening years of the second Baha'i Century, and through the instrumentality of an already properly functioning Administrative Order, whose ramifications have been extended to the four corners of the Western Hemisphere, be vividly, systematically brought to the attention of the masses, in their hour of grief, misery and confusion. MA.079, Ruhi6.3.25 (29 Mar. 1945 from Shoghi Effendi)

Systematic approaches to collective teaching activities and well-focused long-term teaching projects were fruitful and were more evident than ever before in a number of countries. Ridvan.1996, Ruhi6.3.25

In truth the teachers of the Cause are very few, and from every side the cry can be heard of those souls that eagerly seek them. There is no remedy for this save the establishment, in every town, of an assembly with the express goal of instructing the believers in teaching the Cause, so that the tender shoots of the all-glorious paradise, who are filled with the utmost zeal, devotion, and enthusiasm, may acquire the art of teaching. If this is done in a proper and befitting manner, consummate teachers and steadfast orators will appear in every town in a short period of time. (Abdu'l-Baha, in Risaliy-i-Rahnamay-i-Tabligh, p.127, translation quoted in a letter on behalf of the House of Justice dated 6 Aug. 2009)




Let him not be content until he has infused into his spiritual child so deep a longing as to impel him to arise independently, in his turn, and devote his energies to the quickening of other souls, and the upholding of the laws and principles laid down by his newly adopted Faith. ADJ#078 p052, Ruhi6.3.23

After declaration, the new believers must not be left to their own devices. Through correspondence and dispatch of visitors, through conferences and training courses, these friends must be patiently strengthened and lovingly helped to develop into full Baha'i maturity. The beloved Guardian referring to the duties of Baha'i Assemblies in assisting the newly declared believer has written: "... the members of each and every Assembly should endeavour, by their patience, their love, their tact and wisdom, to nurse, subsequent to his admission, the newcomer into Baha'i maturity, and win him over gradually to the unreserved acceptance of whatever has been ordained in the teachings." M63-86 18.5, Ruhi6.3.27 (13 Jul. 1964 from the Universal House of Justice)




With the growth in the number of enrollments, it has become apparent that such occasional courses of instruction and the informal activities of community life, though important, are not sufficient as a means of human resource development, for they have resulted in only a relatively small band of active supporters of the Cause. These believers, no matter how dedicated, no matter how willing to make sacrifices, cannot attend to the needs of hundreds, much less thousands, of fledgling local communities. Systematic attention has to be given by Baha'i institutions to training a significant number of believers and assisting them in serving the Cause according to their God-given talents and capacities. The development of human resources on a large scale requires that the establishment of institutes be viewed in a new light. In many regions, it has become imperative to create institutes as organizational structures dedicated to systematic training. The purpose of such training is to endow ever-growing contingents of believers with the spiritual insights, the knowledge, and the skills needed to carry out the many tasks of accelerated expansion and consolidation, including the teaching and deepening of a large number of people -- adults, youth and children. This purpose can best be achieved through well-organized, formal programmes consisting of courses that follow appropriately designed curricula. M86-01 213.15-16, Ruhi6.3.35 (26 Dec. 1995 from the Universal House of Justice)

To effect the possibilities of expansion and consolidation implied by entry by troops, a determined, worldwide effort to develop human resources must be made. The endeavour of individuals to conduct study classes in their homes, the sponsorship by the institutions of occasional courses of instruction, and the informal activities of the community, though important, are not adequate for the education and training of a rapidly expanding community. It is therefore of paramount importance that systematic attention be given to devising methods for educating large numbers of believers in the fundamental verities of the Faith and for training and assisting them to serve the Cause as their God-given talents allow. There should be no delay in establishing permanent institutes designed to provide well-organized, formally conducted programmes of training on a regular schedule. Access of the institute to physical facilities will of course be necessary, but it may not require a building of its own. Ridvan.1996

They [training institutes] will help to develop in each participant a deep love for Baha'u'llah, a good understanding of His essential Teachings and an awareness of the importance of developing the spiritual life of each individual through prayer, meditation and immersion in the Sacred Writings. They will also cover such practical matters as how to teach the Faith, for there are too many who, for lack of confidence in their ability to do so, are hesitant to convey the Message. Ridvan.1996 (Europe)

Your participation in institute programmes, through which you will deepen your knowledge of the Faith, cultivate your inner spiritual lives and develop abilities of service, will enable you to intensify your individual and collective exertions in the teaching field and will result in a commensurate acceleration in the expansion of your communities. Ridvan.1996 (Southeast Asia)

They [institute programmes] should seek to develop in the participants a good understanding of Baha'u'llah's essential Teachings and to help them acquire those skills and abilities that will enable them to serve the Faith effectively. They should also strive to imbue their hearts with a deep love for Baha'u'llah's -- a love from which stems a desire to submit oneself to His Will, to obey His laws, to heed His exhortations and to promote His Faith. Ridvan.1996 (South Asia)

These centres of Baha'i learning will have as their goal one very practical outcome, namely, the raising up of large numbers of believers who are trained to foster and facilitate the process of entry by troops with efficiency and love. Ridvan.1996

Training programmes, with which many of your communities have considerable experience, constitute a most potent instrument for the accomplishment of such a vast mobilization. We call upon you, then, to support the work of the training institutes in your countries, the more experienced among you giving generously of their time as teachers so that courses can be offered widely and consistently. As you acquire new knowledge and skills through these programmes, you will be able to put into practice with enthusiasm and zeal what you have learned, and arise to shoulder the manifold responsibilities that accelerated expansion and consolidation demand. Ridvan.1996 (Latin America and Caribbean), Ruhi6.3.35

In truth the teachers of the Cause are very few, and from every side the cry can be heard of those souls that eagerly seek them. There is no remedy for this save the establishment, in every town, of an assembly with the express goal of instructing the believers in teaching the Cause, so that the tender shoots of the all-glorious paradise, who are filled with the utmost zeal, devotion, and enthusiasm, may acquire the art of teaching. If this is done in a proper and befitting manner, consummate teachers and steadfast orators will appear in every town in a short period of time. (Abdu'l-Baha, in Risaliy-i-Rahnamay-i-Tabligh, p.127, translation quoted in a letter on behalf of the House of Justice dated 6 Aug. 2009)

The deepening and enrichment of the spiritual life of the individual believer, his increasing comprehension of the essential verities underlying this Faith, his training in its administrative processes, his understanding of the fundamentals of the Covenants established by its Author and the authorised Interpreter of its teachings should be made the supreme objectives of the national representatives responsible for the edification, the progress and consolidation of these communities. (Messages to the Antipodes p. 300-301, 1 Mar. 1951 from Shoghi Effendi)

Your Institutes should not only be seats of Baha'i learning but also centres from which mass teaching and consolidation work over a large area must be inspired and conducted. The Institute is not merely a building, nor solely a place where Baha'i classes can be held for a few days. It should be the centre of complex activities which systematically assisted your Assembly in the achievement of its goal in teaching and consolidation. LG#1909 (23 Jun. 1966 from the Universal House of Justice)

As the term "institute" has assumed various uses in the Baha'i community, a word of clarification is needed. The next four years will represent an extraordinary period in the history of our Faith, a turning point of epochal magnitude. What the friends throughout the world are now being asked to do is to commit themselves, their material resources, their abilities and their time to the development of a network of training institutes on a scale never before attempted. These centers of Baha'i learning will have as their goal one very practical outcome, namely, the raising up of large numbers of believers who are trained to foster and facilitate the process of entry by troops with efficiency and love. Ridvan.1996

Teaching Institute: this is essentially an activity aimed at deepening the knowledge of the friends to prepare them for active participation in the teaching work. In some countries it may continue to be an activity conducted either in local Baha'i Centers or possibly housed in hired quarters, like most Summer Schools. However, in other countries, and particularly in mass teaching areas, it may have to be a modest structure acquired or erected in the rural areas where the majority of the believers reside rather than in capital cities, to obviate transportation expenses for those attending. (14 May 1964 from the Universal House of Justice)

Your past exploits were largely the result of the incessant labors of a comparatively few consecrated believers who devoted their time and resources to the spread of the Cause in locality after locality. If you are to sustain rapid expansion and consolidation in the coming years, it is imperative that far greater numbers of dedicated and committed souls arise to promote these twin processes. Training courses--widespread, regular and well-organized--constitute the most effective means to mobilize believers on the scale required. Ridvan.1996

As foreseen, the training institute is proving to be an engine of growth. On assessing the opportunities and needs of their respective communities, the great majority of National Spiritual Assemblies have chosen to adopt the course materials devised by the Ruhi Institute, finding them most responsive to the Plan's needs. This has had the collateral benefit that the same materials have been translated into many languages and, wherever Baha'is travel, they find other friends following the same path and familiar with the same books and methods. Ridvan.2004

Central to the pattern of action evolving in a cluster is the individual and collectivetransformation effected through the agency of the Word of God. From the beginningof the sequence of courses, a participant encounters Baha'u'llah's Revelation inconsidering such weighty themes as worship, service to humanity,the life of the soul,and the education of children and youth. As a person cultivates the habit of study anddeep reflection upon the Creative Word, thisprocess of transformation reveals itselfin an ability to express one's understanding of profound concepts and to explorespiritual reality in conversations of significance. (29 Dec. 2015 from the Universal House of Justice)




There are innumerable ways of teaching the Cause. You can choose the one that suits best your nature and capacity. COC#1942 (13 Nov. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

In teaching the Cause, much depends on the personality of the teacher and on the method he chooses for presenting the message. Different personalities and different classes and types of individuals need different methods of approach. And it is the sign of an able teacher to know how to best adapt his methods to various types of people whom he happens to meet. There is no one method one can follow all through. But there should be as many ways of approach as there are types of individual seekers. Flexibility and variety of method is, therefore, an essential prerequisite for the success of every teaching activity. COC#1941 (31 May 1934 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...the upper classes ... need the right type of people to approach them, and a method that can suit their mentality. Our teaching methods should allow a certain degree of elasticity in establishing contacts with various types of individual seekers. Every inquirer has to be approached from his own angle. Those who are essentially of the mystic type should first be given those teachings of the Cause which emphasize the nature and value of spiritual realities; while those who are practically minded and of a positive type are naturally more ready and inclined to accept the social aspect of the Teachings. But of course, gradually the entire Message, in all its aspects and with the full implications it entails, should be explained to the newcomer. For to be a believer means to accept the Cause in its wholeness, and not to adhere to some of its teachings. However, as already stated, this ought to be done gradually and tactfully. For conversion is after all a slow process. COC#1946 (28 Dec. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Since change, ever more rapid change, is a constant characteristic of life at this time, and since our growth, size and external relations demand much of us, our community must be ready to adapt. In a sense this means that the community must become more adept at accommodating a wide range of actions without losing concentration on the primary objectives of teaching, namely, expansion and consolidation. A unity in diversity of actions is called for, a condition in which different individuals will concentrate on different activities, appreciating the salutary effect of the aggregate on the growth and development of the Faith, because each person cannot do everything and all persons cannot do the same thing. This understanding is important to the maturity which, by the many demands being made upon it, the community is being forced to attain. Ridvan.1990

...the fundamental prerequisite for any successful teaching enterprise, ...is to adapt the presentation of the fundamental principles of their Faith to the cultural and religious backgrounds, the ideologies, and the temperament of the divers races and nations whom they are called upon to enlighten and attract. The susceptibilities of these races and nations, from both the northern and southern climes, springing from either the Germanic or Latin stock, belonging to either the Catholic or Protestant communion, some democratic, others totalitarian in outlook, some socialistic, others capitalistic in their tendencies, differing widely in their customs and standards of living, should at all times be carefully considered, and under no circumstances neglected. CF.025

...no system, for teachers to practise, exists. But obviously the more people know about the teachings and the Cause, the better they will be able to present the subject. If some people find that prayer and placing all their trust in God, releases in them a flood of inspiration, they should be left free to pursue this method if it is productive of results. COC#1954 (25 Jan. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




It is surely very necessary that the friends should keep in touch with the modern social movements, but their main objective should be to draw more people to the spirit and teachings of the Cause. They should learn from the experience of others and not permit themselves to go (off) at a tangent, and finally be so absorbed in other movements as to forget the Cause of God. (25 Dec. 1931 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, quoted in USBN)




The friends of God should weave bonds of fellowship with others and show absolute love and affection towards them. These links have a deep influence on people and they will listen. When the friends sense receptivity to the Word of God, they should deliver the Message with wisdom. They must first try and remove any apprehensions in the people they teach. In fact, every one of the believers should choose one person every year and try to establish ties of friendship with him, so that all his fear would disappear. Only then, and gradually, must he teach that person. This is the best method. COC#1924 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

In this day every believer must concentrate his thoughts on teaching the Faith... O loved ones of God! Each one of the friends must teach at least one soul each year. This is everlasting glory. This is eternal grace. COC#1927 (From a Tablet, translated from the Persian)

Every laborer in those fields, whether as traveling teacher or settler, should, I feel, make it his chief and constant concern to mix, in a friendly manner, with all sections of the population, irrespective of class, creed, nationality, or color, to familiarize himself with their ideas, tastes, and habits, to study the approach best suited to them, to concentrate, patiently and tactfully, on a few who have shown marked capacity and receptivity, and to endeavor, with extreme kindness, to implant such love, zeal, and devotion in their hearts as to enable them to become in turn self-sufficient and independent promoters of the Faith in their respective localities. ADJ#095 p098

The Guardian feels that the most effective way for the Baha'is to teach the Faith is to make strong friends with their neighbours and associates. When the friends have confidence in the Baha'is and the Baha'is in their friends, they should give the Message and teach the Cause. Individual teaching of this type is more effective than any other type. COC#1987 (27 Dec. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The individual must arise as never before to proclaim the Faith of Baha'u'llah. The most effective way for them to carry on their work is for the individual to make many contacts, select a few who they feel would become Baha'is, develop a close friendship with them, then complete confidence, and finally teach them the Faith, until they become strong supporters of the Cause of God. COC#1991 (13 May 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

You should study those who attend the meetings, and when you find one who you feel would become a strong and active Baha'i, then you should concentrate on teaching him. Thus, if you are able to confirm some souls, you will have rendered distinguished and outstanding service. Actually this is the goal of all such activities in all of the universities. COC#1992 (1 Jun. 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Never must they let a day pass without teaching some soul, trusting to Baha'u'llah that the seed will grow. The friends should seek pure souls, gain their confidence, and then teach that person carefully until he becomes a Baha'i, and then nurture him until he becomes a firm and active supporter of the Faith. COC#1995 (30 May 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is important that you make contact with pure hearted individuals, gain their confidence, they gain confidence in you, and then gradually teach them. It is better to concentrate on a few, rather than attempt to teach too many at a time. Consecration, devotion, dedication, humility are essential, that the Holy Spirit may use you as a reed for the diffusion of Its creative rays. COC#1997 (15 Jul. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Teaching is most effective when close contact is established with one or two, and those carefully taught until they become strong supporters of the Faith. (19 May 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Blessed art thou for having opened the door of thy home unto the people to come and hear of the Kingdom. TAB.068-069

It should not be overlooked, however, that the most powerful and effective teaching medium that has been found so far is the fireside meeting, because in the fireside meeting, intimate personal questions can be answered, and the student find the spirit of the Faith more abundant there. COC#1983 (11 Dec. 1952 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The most effective method of teaching is the Fireside group, where new people can be shown Baha'i hospitality, and ask all questions which bother them. They can feel there the true Baha'i spirit -- and it is the spirit that quickeneth. COC#2000 (20 Oct. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The Guardian hopes the Friends ... will display the loving spirit of the Master in their contacts, and then win those souls to the Faith. The fireside method of teaching seems to produce the greatest results, when each one invites friends into their homes once in nineteen days, and introduces them to the Faith. Close association and loving service affects the hearts; and when the heart is affected, then the spirit can enter. It is the Holy Spirit that quickens, and the Friends must become channels for its diffusion. COC#2005 (27 Jan. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The believers are entirely free to hold as many little teaching groups or Firesides as they please in their own homes... In fact this personal, informal, home teaching is perhaps the most productive of results. COC#1974 (24 Feb. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The principle of the fireside meeting, which was established in order to permit and encourage the individual to teach in his own home, has been proven the most effective instrument for spreading the Faith.... COC#1987 (27 Dec. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




He feels that to distribute Baha'i pamphlets from door to door ... is undignified and might create a bad impression of the Faith.... COC#2001 (20 Oct. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




There is no objection to leaving Baha'i Literature in a public place as long as it is not overdone and does not savour of proselytizing. COC#163 (22 Dec. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Unfortunately this word [missionary] has often been associated with a narrow-minded, bigoted type of proselytizing quite alien to the Baha'i method of spreading our teachings. COC#1962 (7 Feb. 1945 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Care, however, should, at all times, be exercised, lest in their eagerness to further the international interests of the Faith they frustrate their purpose, and turn away, through any act that might be misconstrued as an attempt to proselytize and bring undue pressure upon them, those whom they wish to win over to their Cause. ADJ#096 p099

It is true that Baha'u'llah lays on every Baha'i the duty to teach His Faith. At the same time, however, we are forbidden to proselytize, so it is important for all the believers to understand the difference between teaching and proselytizing. It is a significant difference and, in some countries where teaching a religion is permitted, but proselytizing is forbidden, the distinction is made in the law of the land. Proselytizing implies bringing undue pressure to bear upon someone to change his Faith. It is also usually understood to imply the making of threats or the offering of material benefits as an inducement to conversion. (5 May 1982 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)




Unremitting faith, prayer, the promptings of the soul, Divine assistance--these are among the essentials of progress in any Baha'i undertaking. But also of vital importance to bringing about entry by troops is a realistic approach, systematic action. There are no shortcuts. Systematization ensures consistency of lines of action based on well-conceived plans. In a general sense, it implies an orderliness of approach in all that pertains to Baha'i service, whether in teaching or administration, in individual or collective endeavor. While allowing for individual initiative and spontaneity, it suggests the need to be clearheaded, methodical, efficient, constant, balanced and harmonious. Systematization is a necessary mode of functioning animated by the urgency to act. (Ridvan 155)

One of your primary concerns will be to strengthen appreciation for systematic action, already heightened by the successes it has brought. To arrive at a unified vision of growth based on a realistic assessment of possibilities and resources, to develop strategies that lend structure to it, to devise and implement plans of action commensurate with capacity, to make necessary adjustments while maintaining continuity, to build on accomplishments--these are some of the requisites of systematization that every community must learn and internalize. (27 Dec. 2005 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors)
