



In the All there is an indescribably wonderful variety of powers, especially in the bodies which move through the heavens. For it did not have to come to be an ordered universe like a soulless house, even if a large and complex one...; but it exists, all awake and alive differently in different parts, and nothing can exist which does not belong to it. Plotinus, Enn.IV.4.36




I testify that Thou wast a hidden Treasure wrapped within Thine immemorial Being and an impenetrable Mystery enshrined in Thine own Essence. Wishing to reveal Thyself, Thou didst call into being the Greater and the Lesser Worlds (al-'alama'l-akbar wa-l'asghar), and didst choose Man above all Thy creatures, and didst make Him a sign of both of these worlds.... Thou didst raise Him up to occupy Thy throne before all the people of Thy creation. Thou didst enable Him to unravel Thy mysteries, and to shine with the lights of Thine inspiration and Thy Revelation, and to manifest Thy names and Thine attributes. Through Him Thou didst adorn the preamble of the book of Thy creation.... I bear witness that in His person solidity and fluidity have been joined and combined (al-biharu'l-munjamidu wa al-munjamidu'l-bihar). PM#038 p049

Likewise, reflect upon the perfection of man's creation, and that all these planes and states are folded up and hidden away within him. 'Dost thou deem thyself a small and puny form,When thou foldest within thyself the greater world (al-'alamu'l-akbar)?' [Rumi] CDB#2.70 (was SV.34)

...man, being the culmination of all that went before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains all the lower world within himself. PT#31:5 p096-097

Your spirits would be so transported by His Word as to throw into commotion the Greater World ('alam-i-akbar) - how much more this small and petty one ('alam-i-asghar)! KA#055, GWB#072 p140

The All-Merciful hath conferred upon man the faculty of vision, and endowed him with the power of hearing. Some have described him as the 'lesser world,' when, in reality, he should be regarded as the 'greater world.' The potentialities inherent in the station of man, the full measure of his destiny on earth, the innate excellence of his reality, must all be manifested in this promised Day of God. GWB#162 p340

...the case of large bodies interaction is as manifest as the sun, whilst in the case of small bodies, though interaction be unknown, yet the part is an indication of the whole... Forel.22

...man is said to be the greatest sign of God--that is, he is the Book of Creation--for all the mysteries of the universe are found in him. SAQ#64.4 (was SAQ.236)

...earthly and heavenly, material and spiritual, accidental and essential, particular and universal, structure and foundation, appearance and reality and the essence of all things, both inward and outward - all of these are connected with one another and are interrelated in such a manner that you will find that drops are patterned after seas, and that atoms are structured after suns in proportion to their capacities and potentialities. Universal and particular are in reality incidental and relative considerations. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:016)

...it is by applying the outward world to the inner, the high to the low, the small to the large, the general to the particular that, with abundant clearness, it becometh apparent that the new rules arrived at by the science of astronomy are in closer accord with the universal divine principles... (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:030)

We plant a seed. A complete and perfect tree appears from it, and from each seed of this tree another tree can be produced. Therefore, the part is expressive of the whole, for this seed was a part of the tree, but therein potentially was the whole tree.... This is the unity of the world of humanity. PUP.016

Man is the microcosm; and the infinite universe, the macrocosm.  The mysteries of the greater world, or macrocosm, are expressed or revealed in the lesser world, the microcosm. ...the greater world, the macrocosm, is latent and miniaturized in the lesser world, or microcosm, of man. PUP.069-070

We cannot segregate the human heart from the environment outside us and say that once one of these is reformed everything will be improved. Man is organic in the world. His inner life moulds the environment and is itself deeply affected by it. The one acts upon the other and every abiding change in the life of man is the result of these mutual reactions. COC vol1 p84, Ruhi5.1.15 (17 Feb. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

There are the two, the creational book and the collective book, or philosophically expressed - the microcosm and the macrocosm. The lesser world of visibility is precisely an index and reproduction of the greater and collective world. (An Explanation of the Teachings of the Word, the Logos, or the Orbs, in regard to the station of the Divine Messenger, p. 4; microfilm 137-13, no. 33:136)

The first thing which God created in order to see Himself therein was the world or universe. Ibn 'Arabi calls the world in this particular context the Big Man (al-insan al-kabir), i.e., Macrocosm. The most salient feature of the Big Man is that every single existent in it represents one particular aspect (Name) of God, and one only, so that the whole thing lacks a clear delineation and a definite articulation, being as it is a loose conglomeration of discrete points. It is, so to speak, a clouded mirror. In contrast to this, the second thing which God created for the purpose of seeing Himself as reflected therein, namely, Man, is a well-polished spotless mirror reflecting any object as it really is. Rather, Man is the polishing itself of this mirror which is called the universe. Those discrete things and properties that have been diffused and scattered all over the immense universe become united and unified into a sharp focus in Man. The structure of the whole universe with all its complicated details is reflected in him in a clear and distinctly articulated miniature. This is the meaning of his being a Microcosm. Man is a Small Universe, while the universe is a Big Man, as al-Qashani says. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, pp. 220-221)

...there is the One beyond being ..., and next in order there is Being and Intellect, and the nature of Soul in the third place. And just as in nature there are these three of which we have spoken, so we ought to think that they are present also in ourselves. Plotinus, Enn.V.1.10

The universe, the macrocosm, is captured by our spirit, the microcosm, as in a mirror. We feel, we comprehend, we analyze and construct this mirror-image during a whole human life-time.... as the whole universe is reflected in our spirit, we perceive from this that our spirit (ruh) is a reflection of the Creative Spirit and thus partakes of the infinity of space and boundless eternity with its Creator, that means: the human spirit, the weak reflection of the Divine Spirit, the Creative Spirit, has part in the immortality of the Creator. (Fallscheer notes, p.37)

When man allows the spirit, through his soul, to enlighten his understanding, then does he contain all Creation......man, being the culmination of all that went before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains all the lower world within himself. Illumined by the spirit through the instrumentality of the soul, man's radiant intelligence makes him the crowning-point of Creation. PT#31:4-5 p096-097

Moreover, thou hast asked about the dream state. It is a special world among the divine worlds that expresseth and indicateth endless things. For example, it is proof of a world wherein a beginning and an end, a first and a last, are not seen, inasmuch as something is observed in a dream now and after a period of years the very same event is witnessed. From one perspective, if it is said to be the world of similitudes ('alam-i-mithal) between the two worlds, this is correct. It is similar to the Kingdom (Malakut)-which some consider to be the world of similitudes-which is between the Dominion (Jabarut) and this mortal world (nasut). In short, wert thou to reflect deeply upon this state, thou wouldst comprehend innumerable mysteries. In like manner, this world denoteth the place of gathering and resurrection after death, for as Luqman said to his son: 'If thou art unable to sleep, thou art unable to die; and if thou art unable to waken after sleep, thou art unable to rise after death.' Just as death is a reality, so is the world of the dream; and just as there is waking after sleep, there is rising after death. Disparities occur in dreams due to the difference of souls and thoughts, and sometimes on account of food and drink. In the visions of holy souls, however, there is no disparity, because these dreams are the same as being awake. O questioner, man is the consummate register and the perfect talisman; he is the register which containeth a similitude of whatsoever hath been created in the heavens and on the earth. When the soul is released from these transitory limitations and illusory conditions, it will traverse all the stages. The greater its freedom, the more strong, steadfast, and true will be its flight. (Baha'u'llah, in AvK1.318-319 and AvK1.242 and La'aliu'l-Hikmat 2:065-066; trans. K. Brown)

Since the attributes of all things may be observed in each thing, this is why the part is endowed with the nature of the whole, and this is the secret of that which was formerly revealed by the Manifestation of Myself: "Whosoever quickeneth one soul, it is as though he hath quickened all mankind." AvK1.150-151, PA00365 (provisional translation from the Lawh-i-Nasir)

Verily hath God created within thyself all that He hath fashioned in creation in His likeness, that thou mayest not be veiled from any effulgence. Verily God hath generated within thy being the entirety of His manifestations. He hath ordained that His home be the heart of His servant... (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.059)




A single breeze of His affluence doth suffice to adorn all mankind with the robe of wealth; and one drop out of the ocean of His bountiful grace is enough to confer upon all beings the glory of everlasting life. KI#056 p053

Should a tiny ant desire, in this day, to be possessed of such power as to be able to unravel the abstrusest and most bewildering passages of the Qur'an, its wish will no doubt be fulfilled, inasmuch as the mystery of eternal might vibrates within the innermost being of all created things. ADJ#069 p046; WOB.127 (The Bab, quoted by 'Abdu'l-Baha)

It is in Our power, should We wish it, to enable a speck of floating dust to generate, in less than the twinkling of an eye, suns of infinite, of unimaginable splendour, to cause a dewdrop to develop into vast and numberless oceans, to infuse into every letter such a force as to empower it to unfold all the Knowledge of past and future ages. WOB.107 (Baha'u'llah)

A dewdrop out of this ocean would, if shed upon all that are in the heavens and on the earth, suffice to enrich them with the bounty of God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. GWB#129 p279




It is obvious that all created things are connected one to another by a linkage complete and perfect, even, for example, as are the members of the human body. Note how all the members and component parts of the human body are connected one to another. In the same way, all the members of this endless universe are linked one to another. SWAB#021 p048

And now concerning thy question regarding the nature of religion. Know thou that they who are truly wise have likened the world unto the human temple. GWB#034 p081

Regard the world as the human body which, though at its creation whole and perfect, hath been afflicted, through various causes, with grave disorders and maladies. Not for one day did it gain ease, nay, its sickness waxed more severe, as it fell under the treatment of ignorant physicians, who gave full rein to their personal desires, and have erred grievously. And if at one time, through the care of an able physician, a member of that body was healed, the rest remained afflicted as before. GWB#120 p254-255, ESW.062

This world is even as the body of man, and the Kingdom of God is as the spirit of life. SWAB#161 p192

Imagine ... the entire contingent world--the realm of existence--as resembling the body of man. SAQ#46.3 (was SAQ.177-178)

...this endless universe is like the human body, and that all its parts are connected one with another and are linked together in the utmost perfection. That is, in the same way that the parts, members, and organs of the human body are interconnected, and that they mutually assist, reinforce, and influence each other, so too are the parts and members of this endless universe connected with, and spiritually and materially influenced by, one another. For example, the eye sees and the entire body is affected; the ear hears and every limb and member is stirred. Of this there is no doubt, for the world of existence is also like a living person. SAQ#69.3 (was SAQ.245-246)

...in this Day, We have likened every soul to the world of creation. Just as the world containeth various cities and towns, and also diverse trees, fruits, foliage, seas, and mountains, and all the other things visible within it, in like manner, a counterpart of all these diverse things existeth in man. Thus the attributes of the world are applicable to every human being. However, in the believers they appear as divine virtues, such as the heaven of knowledge, the earth of tranquility, the trees of unity, the twigs of oneness, the branches of detachment, the leaves of certitude, the flowers of the love of the All-Merciful, the seas of understanding, the rivers of wisdom, and the pearls of everlasting glory. (Provisional translation from the Lawh-i-Nasir, by K. Brown)

...the temple of the world hath been fashioned after the image and likeness of the human body. In fact each mirroreth forth the image of the other. (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha, in the compilation on Huququ'llah, #61)

We compare the body of the universe with the body of man. The members of the body of man are closely connected; so, also, are the parts of the great universe. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 24)

To study the universe, take the body of man; all the elements are in it, and its members are dependent upon one another; so, also, are the parts of the great universe. The great events which happen are due to this connection - all according to the requirements of the system. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 29)

Liken the world of existence to the temple of man. All the limbs and organs of the human body assist one another; therefore life continues.... Likewise, among the parts of existence there is a wonderful connection and interchange of forces, which is the cause of the life of the world and the continuation of these countless phenomena. SW v08#11 p137-138 (Abdu'l-Baha, Tablet to the Oriental friends)

The world is like the body. The Cause of God, the Confirmation of the Holy Spirit, the Divine Bounties, the Spiritual Power are like the Spirit. (Table Talks at Acca, by Abdul-Baha Abbas, 1907, p. 5)

So are all the other beings (connected) making the world of existence as one person - a great person. Just as the members and parts of man cooperate and work together, likewise the parts and members of the world cooperate with each other and are interdependent. (Pilgrim notes of Myron Phelps, ca. 1917, p. 2)
