



When studying at present, in English, the available Baha'i writings on the subject of body, soul and spirit, one is handicapped by a certain lack of clarity because not all were translated by the same person, and also there are, as you know, still many Baha'i writings untranslated. But there is no doubt that spirit and soul seem to have been interchanged in meaning sometimes; soul and mind have, likewise, been interchanged in meaning, no doubt due to difficulties arising from different translations. What the Baha'is do believe though is that we have three aspects of our humanness, so to speak, a body, a mind and an immortal identity - soul or spirit. We believe the mind forms a link between the soul and the body, and the two interact on each other. (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Arohanui, p. 89)

The mind force (quwwa 'aqilah) - whether we call it pre-existent or contingent - doth direct and co-ordinate all the members of the human body, seeing to it that each part or member duly performeth its own special function. If, however, there be some interruption in the power of the mind, all the members will fail to carry out their essential functions, deficiencies will appear in the body and the functioning of its members, and the power will prove ineffective. SWAB#021 p048

The soul has two main faculties. (a) As outer circumstances are communicated to the soul by the eyes, ears, and brain of a man, so does the soul communicate its desires and purposes through the brain to the hands and tongue of the physical body, thereby expressing itself. The spirit in the soul is the very essence of life. (b) The second faculty of the soul expresses itself in the world of vision, where the soul inhabited by the spirit has its being, and functions without the help of the material bodily senses. PT#28:14 p086

This intelligence of man is the intermediary between his body and his spirit. PT#31:4 p096

The soul (nafs) is a link between the body (jism) and the spirit (ruh). It receives bounties and virtues from the spirit and gives them to the body just as the outward senses carry to the inward senses what they receive from the outer world in order that it may remain deposited in the memory and may be made serviceable by man through his power. (Mahmud's Diary, 2 Apr. 1912, p. 27)




Question: What is meant by the Mirror for Divine Reflection? 'Abdu'l-Baha: 'Mirror' is the whole body, the brain in particular. SW v14#02 p037 (questions asked at Ramleh, May 1911)

...concerning mental faculties, they are in truth of the inherent properties of the soul (ruh), even as the radiation of light is the essential property of the sun.... For the mind ('aql) to manifest itself, the human body must be whole; and a sound mind cannot be but in a sound body, whereas the soul dependeth not upon the body. It is through the power of the soul that the mind comprehendeth, imagineth and exerteth its influence, whilst the soul is a power that is free. The mind comprehendeth the abstract by the aid of the concrete, but the soul hath limitless manifestations of its own. Forel.08

The powers of the sympathetic nerve are neither entirely physical nor spiritual, but are between the two (systems). The nerve is connected with both. Its phenomena shall be perfect when its spiritual and physical relations are normal. When the material world and the divine world are well co-related, when the hearts become heavenly and the aspirations grow pure and divine, perfect connection shall take place. Then shall this power produce a perfect manifestation. Physical and spiritual diseases will then receive absolute healing. TAB.309

The mind, therefore, has no place, although it is connected with the brain. So it is with the Kingdom. Likewise, love has no place, but it is connected with the heart. SAQ#67.6 (was SAQ.242)

...the body does not conduct the process of intellection or thought radiation. It is only the medium of the grossest sensations. This human body is purely animal in type and, like the animal, it is subject only to the grosser sensibilities. PUP.417

Intelligence does not partake of the quality of space, though it is related to man's brain. The intellect resides there, but not materially. Search in the brain you will not find the intellect. In the same way though the soul is a resident of the body it is not to be found in the body. ADP.128

As soon as the atheist comes to you, as the great tempter and unifier and asks: "Prove, show to me your soul", then say to him boldly: "Prove to me that I have no soul, show me what it is that thinks in me, for the brain is but the implement, where is the life of the implement, where does the implement come from, who creates it?" (Fallscheer notes, p. 61)

The brain is the organ of intellect and understanding.... the activities of the brain and the heart by means of afferent and efferent nerve fibers are linked together. Figuratively speaking, the brain is like a mirror... SW v13#06 p152 (diary of Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, 9 Dec. 1914)

Between the material things and spiritual things there is connection. The more the body is healthful the greater will be the power of the spirit in man; the power of the intellect, the power of the memory, the power of reflection shall be more powerful.... the perfection of the body is the means for the expression of the power of the spirit. (Pilgrim notes of Arthur Agnew, Table Talks at Acca, by Abdul-Baha Abbas, 1907, p. 5)

The intellectual power, - the mind - where is it? It has no place - it is not within the brain, it has only a connection with it.... So is the Kingdom sanctified from place, but it has a connection with the body. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 37)

Nowadays, few people doubt that the mind somehow is the brain, but although that might seem like the end of the matter, all that's necessary to be clear on the subject, it is not. It is not enough to imagine that the brain houses the mind (in some obscure cavity, perhaps tiny intracellular pockets), or gives rise to the mind (the way a television produces an image), or generates the mind (a generator producing current): to imagine any of those things is to retain the idea that the mind and the brain are distinct from each other. The trick is to remove the verb that separates them. The problem is not one of knowledge; the problem is our obdurate, antediluvian minds that cannot grasp what we believe to be true.... (p. 60)         It wasn't that beliefs didn't exist; it was just that it seemed highly improbable that the first speakers of the English language, many hundreds of years ago, should miraculously have chanced upon the categories that, as the saying goes, carved nature at its joints. It might turn out, for instance, that it would make more sense, brain-wise, to group "beliefs about cheese" with "fear of cheese" and "craving for dairy" rather than with "beliefs about life after death".... (pp. 62-63)         The divide between those who, when forced to choose, will trust their instincts and those who will trust an argument that convinces them is at least as deep as the divide between mind-body agnostics and committed physicalists, and lines up roughly the same way. (p. 66)         Maybe consciousness was actually another sort of thing altogether, he [David Chalmers] thought -- a fundamental entity in the universe, a primitive, like mass, time, or space. This theory would be a kind of dualism, Chalmers had to admit, but not a mystical sort; it would be compatible with the physical sciences because it would not alter them--it would be an addition... He liked the idea that humans were continuous with the rest of the world, even the inanimate parts of it, even stones and rivers--that consciousness penetrated very deep, perhaps all the way down into the natural order of things. (pp. 66-67)         (Larissa MacFarquhar, "Two Heads", The New Yorker, Feb. 12, 2007)
