



For the soul is many things, and all things, both in the things above and the things below down to the limits of all life, and we are each one of us an intelligible universe, making contact with this lower world by the powers of soul below, but with the intelligible world by its power above and the powers of the universe; and we remain with all the rest of our intelligible part above, but by its ultimate fringe we are tied to the world below, giving a kind of outflow from it to what is below, or rather an activity, by which that intelligible part is not itself lessened. Plotinus, Enn.III.4.3

The human spirit, which distinguishes man from the animal, is the rational soul, and these two terms--the human spirit [ruh-i-insani] and the rational soul [nafs-i-natiqih]--designate one and the same thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of the philosophers is called the rational soul, encompasses all things and as far as human capacity permits, discovers their realities and becomes aware of the properties and effects, the characteristics and conditions of earthly things. But the human spirit, unless it be assisted by the spirit of faith, cannot become acquainted with the divine mysteries and the heavenly realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear, bright, and polished, is still in need of light. Not until a sunbeam falls upon it can it discover the divine mysteries. As for the mind ['aql], it is the power of the human spirit. The spirit is as the lamp, and the mind as the light that shines from it. The spirit is as the tree, and the mind as the fruit. The mind is the perfection of the spirit and a necessary attribute thereof, even as the rays of the sun are an essential requirement of the sun itself. SAQ#55.5-6 (was SAQ.208-209)

...concerning mental faculties, they are in truth of the inherent properties of the soul (ruh), even as the radiation of light is the essential property of the sun.... For the mind ('aql) to manifest itself, the human body must be whole; and a sound mind cannot be but in a sound body, whereas the soul dependeth not upon the body. It is through the power of the soul that the mind comprehendeth, imagineth and exerteth its influence, whilst the soul is a power that is free. The mind comprehendeth the abstract by the aid of the concrete, but the soul hath limitless manifestations of its own. Forel.08

Now regarding the question whether the faculties of the mind ('aql) and the human soul (ruh-i-insani) are one and the same. These faculties are but the inherent properties of the soul (ruh), such as the power of imagination, of thought, of understanding; powers that are the essential requisites of the reality of man, even as the solar ray is the inherent property of the sun. The temple of man is like unto a mirror, his soul is as the sun, and his mental faculties even as the rays that emanate from that source of light. Forel.24-25

...but man, weak and diminutive in comparison, empowered by mind which is an effulgence of Divinity itself, can resist nature's control and apply natural laws to his own uses. PUP.351

The reality of man is his thought, not his material body. PT#02:1 p017

The intelligence of man, his reasoning powers, his knowledge, his scientific achievements, all these being manifestations of the spirit, partake of the inevitable law of spiritual progress and are, therefore, of necessity, immortal. PT#29:9 p090

The human spirit consists of the rational, or logical, reasoning faculty, which apprehends general ideas and things intelligible and perceptible. TAB.115

This is the power of the mind, for the soul is not, of itself, capable of unrolling the mysteries of phenomena; but the mind can accomplish this and therefore it is a power superior to the soul. ADP.121-122

Spirit is the highest and supreme development of the soul. Soul is the material or outer self, the mind. Mind is the action of the soul's powers. The body is the physical covering or medium in which mind acts and functions. SW v14#01 p009

...the rational faculty is a manifestation of the power of the soul. The soul is the mirror of reflection. LG#1722 (26 Sep. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Since man coincides with the rational soul, when we reason it is really we who reason because rational processes are activities of soul. Plotinus, Enn.I.1.7
