



All Divine Revelation seems to have been thrown out in flashes. The Prophets never composed treatises. That is why in the Qur'an and our own Writings different subjects are so often included in one Tablet. It pulsates, so to speak. That is why it is "Revelation". UD.454 (8 Jan. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




At one time We spoke in the language of the lawgiver; at another in that of the truth-seeker and the mystic, and yet Our supreme purpose and highest wish hath always been to disclose the glory and sublimity of this station [of love and harmony]. ESW.015

Say: We have revealed Our verses in nine different modes. Each one of them bespeaketh the sovereignty of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. A single one of them sufficeth for a proof unto all who are in the heavens and on the earth; yet the people, for the most part, persist in their heedlessness. Should it be Our wish, We would reveal them in countless other modes. SLH.1#051

Whatever is revealed by the Point hath been designated as the "Bayan". However, this name referreth in its primary reality to the divine verses, and it its secondary reality to prayers, third to commentaries, fourth to educational forms, and fifth to the Persian words. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.044-045)

Incline thine ear and hear! This is the call of My Pen which was raised among mystics, then divines, and then kings and rulers." (Qtd. in "Replacing the Sword with the Word: Baha'u'llah's Concept of Peace" (May 2019), first published in shorter form in Logos and Civilization (2000) p. 241.)




Thou knowest full well that We perused not the books which men possess and We acquired not the learning current amongst them, and yet whenever We desire to quote the sayings of the learned and of the wise, presently there will appear before the face of thy Lord in the form of a tablet all that which hath appeared in the world and is revealed in the Holy Books and Scriptures. Thus do We set down in writing that which the eye perceiveth. Verily His knowledge encompasseth the earth and the heavens. TB.149
