



The eighth Glad-Tidings: The pious deeds of the monks and priests among the followers of the Spirit ... are remembered in His presence. In this Day, however, let them give up the life of seclusion and direct their steps towards the open world and busy themselves with that which will profit themselves and others. We have granted them leave to enter into wedlock that they may bring forth one who will make mention of God, the Lord of the seen and the unseen, the Lord of the Exalted Throne. TB.024

Living in seclusion or practising asceticism is not acceptable in the presence of God. It behoveth them that are endued with insight and understanding to observe that which will cause joy and radiance. TB.071

Those unwarranted practices, in connection with the sacrament of baptism, of communion, of confession of sins, of asceticism, of priestly domination, of elaborate ceremonials, of holy war and of polygamy, have one and all been rigidly suppressed by the Pen of Baha'u'llah... WOB.022




We should learn to give and be careful not to give to such an extent that our own development and growth may be severely hampered. We have to carefully and wisely divide our resources in such a way as to ensure the fair and equal development of our entire personality. Excess has always been a source of trouble. Moderation should be, therefore, our guide in all we do, whether in our personal or collective work. (1 Oct. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, quoted in a Research memo dated 17 Jul. 1989)

The Baha'is, in spite of their self-sacrificing desire to give the last drop of their strength to serving the Cause, must guard against utterly depleting their forces and having breakdowns. For this can sometimes do more harm than good, because they are so bound up in the lives of others.... There is no doubt that there is vicarious atonement for others, and our sufferings sometimes can be in the nature of a sacrifice accepted for others. But where to draw the line is a mystery. If you take better care of your own health, and build up your reserves, it would certainly be better for you and for your work. Then your sensitive, yearning heart, although you may still often suffer for and with others, will be better able to withstand its trials, and you will not get so exhausted, which is certainly no asset to your work for the Cause. LG#941 (25 Oct. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Thou has written that they have pledged themselves to observe maximum austerity in their lives with a view to forwarding the remainder of their income to His exalted presence. This matter was mentioned at His holy court. He said: Let them act with moderation and not impose hardship upon themselves. We would like them both to enjoy a life that is well-pleasing. COC#1155 (from a Tablet of Baha'u'llah)

...you should not neglect your health, but consider it the means which enables you to serve. It -- the body -- is like a horse which carries the personality and spirit, and as such should be well cared for so it can do its work! You should certainly safeguard your nerves, and force yourself to take time, and not only for prayer meditation, but for real rest and relaxation. LG#1013 (3 Nov. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
