



The Blessed Beauty Baha'u'llah has set down in His Writings the oriental natural philosophy that we share with the Persian Sufis. (Fallscheer notes, from a talk of Abdu'l-Baha given in Jan. 1910, p. 47)

Perused ye not the Qur'an? Read it, that haply ye may find the Truth, for this Book is verily the Straight Path. This is the Way of God unto all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth. GWB#018 p044

A careful and thorough investigation of the historical record will establish the fact that the major part of the civilization of Europe is derived from Islam.... SDC.089

Those who participate in such a campaign, whether in an organizing capacity, or as workers to whose care the execution of the task itself has been committed, must, as an essential preliminary to the discharge of their duties, thoroughly familiarize themselves with the various aspects of the history and teachings of their Faith. In their efforts to achieve this purpose they must study for themselves, conscientiously and painstakingly, the literature of their Faith, delve into its teachings, assimilate its laws and principles, ponder its admonitions, tenets and purposes, commit to memory certain of its exhortations and prayers, master the essentials of its administration, and keep abreast of its current affairs and latest developments. They must strive to obtain, from sources that are authoritative and unbiased, a sound knowledge of the history and tenets of Islam--the source and background of their Faith--and approach reverently and with a mind purged from preconceived ideas the study of the Qur'an which, apart from the sacred scriptures of the Babi and Baha'i Revelations, constitutes the only Book which can be regarded as an absolutely authenticated Repository of the Word of God. They must devote special attention to the investigation of those institutions and circumstances that are directly connected with the origin and birth of their Faith, with the station claimed by its Forerunner, and with the laws revealed by its Author. ADJ#075 p073-074

The Qur'an should be to some extent studied by the Baha'is but they certainly need not seek to acquire a mastery over it, which would take years, unless they really want to. UD.454 (8 Jan. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

First is the importance of the study of Islam - which subject is still new to the majority of the believers, but whose importance for a proper and sound understanding of the Cause is absolutely indispensable. ...the Guardian would certainly advise, and even urge the friends to make a thorough study of the Qur'an as the knowledge of this Sacred Scripture is absolutely indispensable for every believer who wishes to adequately understand and intelligently read the Writings of Baha'u'llah. Although there are very few persons among Western Baha'is who are capable of handling such a course in a scholarly way, the mere lack of such competent teachers should encourage and stimulate the believers to get better acquainted with the Sacred Scriptures of Islam. In this way, there will gradually appear some distinguished Baha'is who will be so well versed in the teachings of Islam as to be able to guide the believers in their study of that religion. LG#1903-4, DG#171 (14 Aug. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
