



This servant will now share with thee a dewdrop out of the fathomless ocean of the truths treasured in these holy words, ... so that the overpowering majesty of the Word of God may not prevent them from attaining unto the ocean of His names and attributes... KI#027 p028

'Every knowledge hath seventy meanings, of which one only is known amongst the people. And when the Qa'im shall arise, He shall reveal unto men all that which remaineth.' He also saith: 'We speak one word, and by it we intend one and seventy meanings; each one of these meanings we can explain.' KI#285 p255

Know assuredly that just as thou firmly believest that the Word of God, exalted be His glory, endureth for ever, thou must, likewise, believe with undoubting faith that its meaning can never be exhausted. They who are its appointed interpreters, they whose hearts are the repositories of its secrets, are, however, the only ones who can comprehend its manifold wisdom. GWB#089 p175

...the Words of God have innumerable significance and mysteries of meanings - each one a thousand and more. PUP.155

And if all the trees on earth were pens and the ocean (were ink), with seven oceans behind it to add to its (supply), yet would not the words of God be exhausted... Qur'an 31:27

For just as a spring that rises in a small place is more fertile and with its various rivulets supplies a flow of water to a wider area than any one of those rivulets which, however far they flow, can be traced back to the one source, so the tale told by your appointed Dispenser, destined as it was to benefit so many later commentators, rises in low and measured language and bubbles up into trickles of pure truth. From those streams each of these commentators takes what meaning he is capable of forming in these matters, some one meaning, some another, extracting it through various complicated twists of language. (St. Augustine, Confessions 12.27.37)

The novel thoughts thou hast expressed as to the symbolism contained in the word "sparrow" were considered. Thou appearest to be well grounded in mystic truth. However, in each realm, to every letter a meaning is allotted which pertaineth to that realm. Indeed, the wayfarer findeth a secret in every name and a mystery in every letter. CDB#2.91 (was SV.42)

Verily, each letter of the Qur'an is invested with as many manifest meanings (tafsir) as the number of the atoms of all things that are embraced by the knowledge of God. And each one of these manifest meanings hath a hidden meaning (ta'vil), and each of these hidden meanings possesseth an inward meaning (batin), and each inward meaning containeth an inner inward meaning (batin-i-batin), and so on, as God willeth. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.059)
