



The manifestation of the will of the Omnipotent, in the universe, means the manifestation of the divine laws and disciplines which are essential to the realities of beings; and in the world of the Kingdom they are ideals which in the appearance of the holy Manifestations of God are realized. SW v12#12 p.194 (Abdu'l-Baha)




When you consider nature itself, however, you see that it has neither awareness nor will. For instance, the nature of fire is to burn; it burns without consciousness or will. The nature of water is to flow; it flows without consciousness or will. The nature of the sun is to shed light; it shines without consciousness or will. The nature of vapour is to rise; it rises without consciousness or will. It is therefore evident that the natural movements of all created things are compelled, and that nothing moves of its own will save animals and, in particular, man. Man is able to resist and oppose nature inasmuch as he discovers the natures of things and, by virtue of this discovery, has mastery over nature itself. Indeed, all the crafts that man has devised proceed from this discovery. SAQ#1.3-4 (was SAQ.003)

For more on unreasoning nature vs. unreasoning intellect see Plotinus, Enn.IV.4.13.

...nature is without will.... all the properties of nature are inherent and obedient, not volitional; there­fore, it is philosophically predicated that nature is without volition and innate perception.  In this statement and principle we agree with the materialists. PUP.080

Nature is without volition and acts perforce, whereas man possesses a mighty will. PUP.178




Now, can such organization, order and laws as you observe in existence be attributed merely to the effect of nature, notwithstanding that nature itself has neither consciousness nor understanding? It is therefore evident that this nature, which has neither consciousness nor under­standing, is in the grasp of the omnipotent Lord, Who is the Ruler of the world of nature and Who causes it to manifest whatsoever He desires.... Hence it is clear that nature, in its very essence, is in the grasp of God's might, and that it is that Eternal and Almighty One Who subjects nature to ideal laws and organizing principles, and Who rules over it. SAQ#1.5-7 (was SAQ.004)

...the Divine Breath englobes all the forms of the world; in face, it is for them like the Materia Prima (al-jawhar al-hayulani), which is nothing but the first determination of Universal Nature (al-tabi'ah). (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 75. Cf. Izutsu's commentary: "the 'breath of the Merciful' is the principle of Being or the ground of Being extending over both the world of material things and the world of spiritual beings. In this ontological capacity, the 'breath of the Merciful' is regarded by Ibn 'Arabi as Nature (tabi`ah). Viewed from this perspective, the 'breath' is a Substance (jawhar, in the Aristotelian sense of Prime Matter) in which all the forms of Being, both material and spiritual, are manifested." Sufism and Taoism, pp. 133-134)

...those who entirely deny the appearance of any miracle attributed to the Prophets should not do so, for human reason is not a sufficient standard.... all phenomea, as things endowed with power, are also miracles of God... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Sahifiy-i-Shattiyyih, JBS9:3 pp.57-58)

The sacredness of nature as symbol of the divine: ibid. 2. See also Eliade, The Sacred and the Profane, 116ff.

Nature in its essence is the embodiment of My Name, the Maker, the Creator. Its manifestations are diversified by varying causes, and in this diversity there are signs for men of discernment.  Nature is God's Will and is its expression in and through the contingent world.  It is a dispensation of Providence ordained by the Ordainer, the All-Wise.  Were anyone to affirm that it is the Will of God as manifested in the world of being, no one should question this assertion.  It is endowed with a power whose reality men of learning fail to grasp.  Indeed a man of insight can perceive naught therein save the effulgent splendour of Our Name, the Creator.  Say:  This is an existence which knoweth no decay, and Nature itself is lost in bewilderment before its revelations, its compelling evidences and its effulgent glory which have encompassed the universe. TB.142

...all phenomena are realized through the divine bounty, and the explanation of true pantheistic statement and principle is that the phenomena of the universe find realization through the one power animating and dominating all things, and all things are but manifestations of its energy and bounty. PUP.286

[Baha'u'llah] says that that nature which they regard as the source of all beings is the manifestation of His Creative Name.... It is the First Cause that is the source of all beings and that has been interpreted as nature. The point is this: All the conditions and perfections that the philosophers attribute to nature are the same as have been attributed to the Primal Will in the Holy Scriptures. It is clear that the Primal Will is the manifestation of the Creative Name. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, commentary on the Tablet of Wisdom, MA2.070)

Nature did not originate itself - by accident - but it sprang from a divine act of creation. Thus nature does not represent an eternal, divine order, but it is a creature, a work of temporal existence, for what can be created, the Creator can also make to vanish. (Fallscheer notes, p. 50)

...in reality, Nature is no other than the 'breath of the Merciful' [al-nafas al-rahmaniy]. All the forms of the world become manifest in the latter, ranging from the highest forms to the lowest, in virtue of the spreading of the 'breath' through the material substance of the world of physical bodies in particular. The 'breath' spreads also through the Being of the spirits of a luminous nature and the attributes. But that is another kind of the spreading of the 'breath'. ...the Divine breath acts as the Prime Matter in relation to the forms of the world. And (the Divine breath in this capacity) is precisely what we call Nature. (Ibn 'Arabi, in Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 134. See also Corbin, Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 298)

The atoms of the elements are predisposed (programmed) to synthesis and composition according to the laws of nature; the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will operates and creates in this manner. The Primal Will operates in the element, in the primal atom, as attraction and repulsion; on the next higher level as organic life; then as animal-vegetative; and finally as spiritual life, which is destined to rise to the super-spiritual. What develops is not the physical substratum (base), which actually exists from the beginning in its different kinds, each of which then develops only within its own kind to higher perfection, but rather does the Cosmic spirit, the divine Primal Will, unfold within the creature just as the bud of a flower unfolds... (Fallsheer notes, p. 35)




Even the ether, the forces of which are said in natural philosophy to be heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. Likewise, nature itself is an intelligible and not a sensible reality; the human spirit is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. SAQ#16.3 (was SAQ.083-084)




Those who have rejected God and firmly cling to Nature as it is in itself are, verily, bereft of knowledge and wisdom. TB.143-144




The Laws of God are not imposition of will, or of power, or pleasure, but the resolutions of truth, reason and justice. PT#47:1 p154

If you love and serve men, you cannot by any hiding or stratagem escape the remuneration. Secret retributions are always restoring the level, when disturbed, of the divine justice. It is impossible to tilt the beam. All the tyrants and proprietors and monopolists of the world in vain set their shoulders to heave the bar. Settles forevermore the ponderous equator to its line, and man and mote, and star and sun, must range to it, or be pulverized by the recoil. (Ralph Waldo Emerson)

The true Law of God consisteth of acts and deeds that reveal the full glory of man's station. This is the meaning of 'good', ordained by the One True God, glorified be He, in all His Books. Whatsoever runneth counter to such a station is accounted as 'wrong', and must needs be avoided. (Provisional translation, AB00695)
