



But the truly learned among the Theosophists and Sufis have concluded, after deep consideration of this matter, that there are two kinds of existence. One kind is this common existence which is conceived by the mind of man. This existence is originated and is an accident among others, whereas the realities of things are the substances. But what is meant by unity of existence is not this commonly perceived existence, but that real Existence which is sanctified and exalted above all expression, an Existence through which all things are realized. This Existence is one; it is that One through which all things--such as matter, energy, and that common existence which is conceived by the human mind--have come to exist. This is the truth behind what the Theosophists and the Sufis believe. SAQ#82.12

Existence (vujud) is of two kinds: conceptual ('ilmi) and material ('ayni). Prior to being embodied in material forms, all created things existed on a conceptual plane, that is to say they were entities within the knowledge of God. They subsequently found material existence and became visible in the external world. Conceptual existence hath no impact on the eye; it can only be affected by material reality. (Provisional translation, AB00954)

Divine Sovereignty is pre-existent, and the world of being is one of the immemorial emanations of the Sun of Truth. A sun without rays cannot be imagined. All the Names and Attributes of God are pre-existent, as are their manifold exigencies. (Provisional translation, AB00695)




Certain sages and philosophers hold that there are two kinds of pre-existence [qadim] -- essential [dhati] and temporal [zamani] -- and that there are likewise two kinds of origination [huduth] -- essential and temporal. Essential pre-existence is an existence which is not preceded by a cause; essential origination is preceded by a cause. Temporal pre-existence has no beginning; temporal origination has both a beginning and an end. For the existence of each and every thing depends upon four causes: the efficient cause, the material cause, the formal cause, and the final cause. So this chair has a creator who is a carpenter, a matter which is wood, a form which is that of a chair, and a purpose which is to serve as a seat. Therefore, this chair is essentially originated, for it is preceded by, and its existence is conditioned upon, a cause. This is called essential [hadith-i-dhati] or intrinsic origination [hadith-i-haqiqi]. The world of existence, in relation to its Creator, is intrinsically originated [hadith-i-haqiqi]. Likewise, since the body depends upon and is sustained by the spirit, it is, in relation to the spirit, essentially originated. SAQ#80.3-4 (was SAQ.280)

Existence is of two kinds: one is the existence of God which is beyond the comprehension of man. He, the invisible, the lofty and the incomprehensible, is preceded by no cause but rather is the Originator of the cause of causes. He, the Ancient, hath had no beginning and is the all-independent. The second kind of existence is the human existence. It is a common existence, comprehensible to the human mind, is not ancient, is dependent and hath a cause to it. The mortal substance does not become eternal and vice-versa; the human kind does not become a Creator and vice-versa. The transformation (qalaba) of the innate substance (mahiyat) is impossible. SWAB#139 p061, SW v11#10 p159

the generality of the Sufis understand by "Existence" that common existence which is conceived by the mind and intellect of man, that is, which man can comprehend. This common existence, however, is only one accident among others that enter upon the realities of created things, while the essences [mahiyyat] of beings are the substance [jawhar]. This accidental existence, which is dependent upon things in the same way that the properties of things are dependent upon them, is but one accident among many. Now, the substance is undoubtedly superior to the accident, for the substance is primary and the accident secondary; the substance subsists through itself while the accident subsists through something else--that is, it needs a substance through which it can subsist. SAQ#82.7-9 (was SAQ.292)

Who is there, O my Lord, that, when Thou revealest the first glimmerings of the signs of Thy transcendent sovereignty and might, hath the power to claim for himself any existence whatever? Existence itself is as nothing when brought face to face with the mighty and manifold wonders of Thine incomparable Self. PM#080 p133-134

In a Tablet Baha'u'llah says that even though absolute being can be attributed only to God we cannot say that other objects have no being.... Compared to God nothing has existence but this does not mean that even stones do not have being. It is speaking relatively. Moreover, God reveals Himself in all things in the sense that He is the source of their being and the Cause of their existence. Without Him all things will shrink down into nothing. This however does not mean that all things are parts of God as the pantheist believes. The pantheist says that only God exists, objects are mere modes of His attributes. Baha'u'llah however says that objects have a separate reality that is created by God. The Master explains these things in the 'Some Answered Questions', especially in one of the last chapters. There are also many Tablets of Baha'u'llah explaining these matters. Most of them, however, have not yet been translated into English. Let us hope that some day this work will be done and the friends will appreciate how Baha'u'llah has solved their problems. LG#1583 (26 Oct. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
