



When we consider existence, we observe that the mineral, the vegetable, the animal, and the human realms, each and all, are in need of an educator.... It has thus been established by rational arguments that the world of existence stands in utmost need of an educator, and that its education must be achieved through a celestial power. There is no doubt that this celestial power is divine revelation, and that the world must be educated through this power which transcends human power. SAQ#3.1, SAQ#3.18 (was SAQ.007, SAQ.011)

When we look upon the kingdoms of creation below man, we find three forms or planes of existence which await education and development.... As to the human world:  It is more in need of guidance and education than the lower creatures. PUP.077

...the world of nature is incomplete, imperfect until awakened and illumined by the light and stimulus of education. PUP.309

Education and training are the most important issues in the world of existence.... Apart from the human world observe the rest of creation, how each and every created thing is in need of training by an educator. (Mahmud's Diary, 15 Nov. 1912, p. 393)

If we should relegate this plot of ground to its natural state, allow it to return to its original condition, it would become a field of thorns and useless weeds, but by cultivation it will become fertile soil, yielding a harvest. Deprived of cultivation, the mountain slopes would be jungles and forests without fruitful trees. The gardens bring forth fruits and flowers in proportion to the care and tillage bestowed upon them by the gardener. Therefore, it is not intended that the world of humanity should be left to its natural state PUP.353

God in his wisdom has created all things. Nothing has been created without a special destiny, for every creature has an innate station of attainment.... Each kingdom of nature holds potentialities and each must be cultivated in order to reach its fulfillment. ADP.110




Among the proofs and arguments for the existence of God is the fact that man has not created himself, but rather that his creator and fashioner is another than he. And it is certain and indisputable that the creator of man is not like man himself, because a powerless being cannot create another being, and an active creator must possess all perfections to produce his handiwork.... Thus the contingent world is the source of deficiencies and God is the source of perfection. The very deficiencies of the contingent world testify to God's perfections. SAQ#2.1-3 (was SAQ.005)

It is therefore clear and evident that man stands in need of an educator. This educator must undeniably be perfect in every way and distinguished above all men. For if he were like others he could never be their educator, particularly since he must at once be their material, human, and spiritual educator. That is, he must organize and administer their material affairs and establish a social order, that they may aid and assist each other in securing the means of livelihood and that their material affairs may be ordered and arranged in every respect. He must likewise lay the foundations of human education--that is, he must so educate human minds and thoughts that they may become capable of substantive progress; that science and knowledge may expand; that the realities of things, the mysteries of the universe, and the properties of all that exists may be revealed; that learning, discoveries, and major undertakings may day by day increase; and that matters of the intellect may be deduced from and conveyed through the sensible. He must also impart spiritual education, so that minds may apprehend the metaphysical world, breathe the sanctified breaths of the Holy Spirit, and enter into relationship with the Concourse on high, and that human realities may become the manifestations of divine blessings, that perchance all the names and attributes of God may be reflected in the mirror of the human reality and the meaning of the blessed verse "Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness" may be realized. SAQ#3.9-11 (was SAQ.008-009)
