



None must contend with those who wield authority over the people; leave unto them that which is theirs, and direct your attention to men's hearts. KA#095

...each and every one is required to show obedience, submission and loyalty towards his own government.... For while all sects and races in Persia and Turkestan are absorbed in promoting their own interests and only obey their governments either with the hope of reward or from fear of punishment, the Baha'is are the well-wishers of the government, obedient to its laws and bearing love towards all peoples. Such obedience and submission is made incumbent and obligatory upon all by the clear Text of the Abha Beauty. Therefore the believers, in obedience to the command of the True One, show the utmost sincerity and goodwill towards all nations; and should any soul act contrary to the laws of the government he would consider himself responsible before God, deserving divine wrath and chastisement for his sin and wrongdoing. SWAB#225 p293

Let them willingly subject themselves to every just king, and to every generous ruler be good citizens. Let them obey the government and not meddle in political affairs, but devote themselves to the betterment of character and behaviour, and fix their gaze upon the Light of the world. SWAB#237 p319

The fifth Glad-Tidings: In every country where any of this people reside, they must behave towards the government of that country with loyalty, honesty and truthfulness. TB.022-023

Kings are the manifestations of the power, and the daysprings of the might and riches, of God. Pray ye on their behalf. He hath invested them with the rulership of the earth and hath singled out the hearts of men as His Own domain.. It is incumbent upon everyone to aid those daysprings of authority and sources of command who are adorned with the ornament of equity and justice. Blessed are the rulers and the learned among the people of Baha. TB.220-221, Ruhi8.1.6

...we must do two things -- shun politics like the plague, and be obedient to the government in power in the place where we reside. We cannot start judging how a particular government came into power, and therefore whether we should obey it or not. This would immediately plunge us into politics. We must obey in all cases except where a spiritual principle is involved such as denying our Faith. For these spiritual principle we must be willing to die. What we Baha'is must face is the fact that society is rapidly disintegrating -- so rapidly that moral issues which were clear half a century ago are now hopelessly confused, and what is more, thoroughly mixed up with battling political interests. That is why the Baha'is must turn all there forces into the channel of building up the Baha'i Cause and its administration. They can never change nor help the world in any other way at present. It they became involved in the issues the Governments of the world are struggling over, they will be lost. But if they build up a Baha'i pattern they can offer it as a remedy when all else has failed. LG#1453 (21 Dec. 1948 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Obedience to the state is so vital a principle of the Cause that should the authorities in ... decide to-day to prevent Baha'is from holding any meeting or publishing any literature they should obey ... But, as already pointed out, such an allegiance is confined merely to administrative matter which if checked can only retard the progress of the Faith for some time. In matters of belief, however, no compromise whatever should be allowed, even though the outcome of it be death or expulsion. LG#1455 (11 Feb. 1934 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

What mankind needeth in this day is obedience unto them that are in authority, and a faithful adherence to the cord of wisdom. The instruments which are essential to the immediate protection, the security and assurance of the human race have been entrusted to the hands, and lie in the grasp, of the governors of human society. This is the wish of God and His decree.... GWB#102
