



This nature is subject to a sound organization, to inviolable laws, to a perfect order and a consummate design, from which it never departs. To such an extent is this true that were you to gaze with the eye of insight and discernment, you would observe that all things--from the smallest invisible atom to the largest globes in the world of existence, such as the sun or the other great stars and luminous bodies--are most perfectly organized, be it with regard to their order, their composition, their outward form or their motion; and that all are subject to one universal law from which they never depart. SAQ#1.2 (was SAQ.003)

It is certain that the entire contingent world is subject to an order and a law which it can never disobey. Even man is forced to submit to death, sleep, and other conditions -- that is, in certain matters he is compelled, and this very compulsion implies the existence of One Who is All-Compelling. SAQ#2.5 (was SAQ.006)

This composition and arrangement arose, through the wisdom of God and His ancient might, from one natural order. Thus, as this composition and combination has been produced according to a natural order, with perfect soundness, following a consummate wisdom, and subject to a universal law, it is clear that it is a divine creation and not an accidental composition and arrangement. SAQ#47.5 (was SAQ.181)

...it is clear that this terrestrial globe in its present form did not come into existence all at once, but that this universal existent gradually traversed different stages until it appeared in its present completeness. Universal existences can be likened and compared to particular ones, for both are subject to one natural order, one universal law, and one divine arrangement. For instance, you will find the smallest atoms to be similar in their general structure to the greatest entities in the universe, and it is clear that they have proceeded from one laboratory of might according to one natural order and one universal law, and can therefore be compared to one another. SAQ#47.6 (was SAQ.182)

By nature is meant those inherent properties and necessary relations derived from the realities of things. And these realities of things, though in the utmost diversity, are yet intimately connected one with the other. For these diverse realities an all-unifying agency is needed that shall link them all one to the other. Forel.13

Now concerning nature, it is but the essential properties and the necessary relations inherent in the realities of things. And though these infinite realities are diverse in their character yet they are in the utmost harmony and closely connected together. As one's vision is broadened and the matter observed carefully, it will be made certain that every reality is but an essential requisite of other realities. Thus to connect and harmonize these diverse and infinite realities and all-unifying Power is necessary, that every part of existent being may in perfect order discharge its own function.... these infinite beings in this wondrous universe will discharge their functions properly only when directed and controlled by that Universal Reality, so that order may be established in the world.... ...both interaction and cooperation are evident and proven amongst all beings, whether large or small. In the case of large bodies interaction is as manifest as the sun, whilst in the case of small bodies, though interaction be unknown, yet the part is an indication of the whole. All these interactions therefore are connected with that all-embracing power which is their pivot, their center, their source and their motive power... interaction, cooperation and interrelation amongst beings are under the direction and will of a motive Power which is the origin, the motive force and the pivot of all interactions in the universe... Forel.20-23

...look into this endless universe: a universal power inevitably existeth, which encompasseth all, directing and regulating all the parts of this infinite creation; and were it not for this Director, the Coordinator, the universe would be flawed and deficient. SWAB#021 p048

The law of God is one; the evolution of existence is one; the divine order is one. All beings great and small are subject to one law and one order... from the beginning, these kinds and species were latent in the earthly realm and appeared gradually thereafter. For the supreme law of God and the universal natural order encompasses all things and subjects them to its rule. SAQ#51.4-5

It is clear that human realities differ one from another, that opinions and perceptions vary, and that this divergence of thoughts, opinions, understandings, and sentiments among individuals is an essential requirement. For differences of degree in creation are among the essential requirements of existence, which is resolved into countless forms. We stand therefore in need of a universal power which can prevail over the thoughts, opinions, and sentiments of all, which can annul these divisions and bring all souls under the sway of the principle of the oneness of humanity. And it is clear and evident that the greatest power in the human world is the love of God. SAQ#84.4 (was SAQ.301)

The Laws of God are not imposition of will, or of power, or pleasure, but the resolutions of truth, reason and justice. PT#47:1 p154

Divine and all-encompassing Wisdom hath ordained that motion be an inseparable concomitant of existence, whether inherently or accidentally, spiritually or materially. This movement must be governed by some check or reign, some regulator or director, otherwise order will be disrupted and the spheres and bodies will fall from the heavens. For this reason God brought into being a universal attractive force between these bodies to hold sway over them and govern them, a force deriving from the firm ties, the mighty correspondence and affinity that exist between the realities of these limitless worlds. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:014)

...the variation in the stations of love are from differences of stations and stages and in each world of the worlds and in each stage of the stages there can be seen a magnetism of oneness. Within the grasp of its power is the mutual attraction of the reality of all things and the pulling [together] of the subtlety of Being. And this magnetism of oneness is the station of Love and Attraction (khullat). ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:015)

We should be confident that there is consistency in the universe, that the Manifestation is aware of that consistency, and we must ourselves be aware that the principle of the harmony of religion and science is a dynamic one which will require new levels of understanding of true science and true religion alike. (22 Jun. 1977 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

The discoverers of the mysteries of existence and those who comprehend the qualities and hidden secrets hold that a wondrous force of attraction and a strange magnetic power of connection permeates and encompasses all these infinite beings and successive contingent things, both physical and spiritual, and is equally present in them all. And it is through this universal force that the individual essences of the different simple elements come together, and due to the diversity and differences of parts, the multiplication and contrast of the infinite diverse realities of existing things come into being. The world of matter has become a rose garden of wonders and a garden of subtle and elegant mysteries. In truth, every thing has unveiled itself through that universal attractive force with a manifestation and light and has displayed its beauty. And in human reality it has become the power of yearning, bringing about enthusiasm and passion and attraction. AB06872




Know thou of a certainty that Love is the secret of God's holy Dispensation, the manifestation of the All-Merciful, the fountain of spiritual outpourings. Love is heaven's kindly light, the Holy Spirit's eternal breath that vivifieth the human soul. Love is the cause of God's revelation unto man, the vital bond inherent, in accordance with the divine creation, in the realities of things. Love is the one means that ensureth true felicity both in this world and the next. Love is the light that guideth in darkness, the living link that uniteth God with man, that assureth the progress of every illumined soul. Love is the most great law that ruleth this mighty and heavenly cycle, the unique power that bindeth together the divers elements of this material world, the supreme magnetic force that directeth the movements of the spheres in the celestial realms. Love revealeth with unfailing and limitless power the mysteries latent in the universe. Love is the spirit of life unto the adorned body of mankind, the establisher of true civilization in this mortal world, and the shedder of imperishable glory upon every high-aiming race and nation. SWAB#012 p027, Ruhi8.1.40

Throughout all creation, in all the kingdoms, this law is written:  that love and affinity are the cause of life, and discord and separation are the cause of death. PUP.207

We declare that love is the cause of the existence of all phenomena and that the absence of love is the cause of disintegration and nonexistence. Love is the conscious bestowal of God, the bond of affiliation in all phenomena.... The power of cohesion expressed in the mineral kingdom is in reality love or affinity manifested in a low degree according to the exigencies of the mineral world.... PUP.255

In the divine world there is love, symbolized in the material world by magnetism. (Pilgrim notes of George Winterburn, Table Talks with Abdu'l-Baha in February 1904, pp. 4-5)

All things in Creation are formed by particles and atoms which are united by the power of attraction.... What is this power of attraction? Love! (Abdu'l-Baha, "Pilgrim notes Taken at the Holy Household", p. 5)

Everything partakes of this nature and is subject to this principle, for the creative foundation in all its degrees and kingdoms is an expression or outcome of love. PUP.123

When we observe the phenomena of the universe, we realize that the axis around which life revolves is love, while the axis around which death and destruction revolve is animosity and hatred.  Let us view the mineral kingdom.  Here we see that if attraction did not exist between the atoms, the composite substance of matter would not be possible.... PUP.268

As we look upon the universe we observe that all composite beings or existing phenomena are made up primarily of single elements bound together by a power of attraction. Through this power of attraction, cohesion has become manifest between atoms of these composing elements. The resultant being is a phenomenon of the lower contingent type. The power of cohesion expressed in the mineral kingdom is in reality love or affinity manifested in a low degree according to the exigencies of the mineral world. We take a step higher into the vegetable kingdom where we find an increased power of attraction has become manifest among the composing elements which form phenomena. Through this degree of attraction a cellular admixture is produced among these elements which make up the body of a plant. Therefore in the degree of the vegetable kingdom there is love. We enter the animal kingdom and find the attractive power binding together single elements as in the mineral, plus the cellular admixture as in the vegetable, plus the phenomena of feelings or susceptibilities. We observe that the animals are susceptible to certain affiliation and fellowship, and that they exercise natural selection. This elemental attraction, this admixture and selective affinity is love manifest in the degree of the animal kingdom. Finally we come to the kingdom of man. As this is the superior kingdom, the light of love is more resplendent. In man we find the power of attraction among the elements which compose his material body, plus the attraction which produces cellular admixture or power augmentative, plus the attraction which characterizes the sensibilities of the animal kingdom, but still beyond and above all these lower powers we discover in the being of man the attraction of heart, the susceptibilities and affinities which bind men together, enabling them to live and associate in friendship and solidarity. It is therefore evident that in the world of humanity the greatest king and sovereign is love. If love were extinguished, the power of attraction dispelled, the affinity of human hearts destroyed, the phenomena of human life would disappear. FWU.088




Know thou of a certainty that Love is the secret of God's holy Dispensation, the manifestation of the All-Merciful, the fountain of spiritual outpourings. Love is heaven's kindly light, the Holy Spirit's eternal breath that vivifieth the human soul. Love is the cause of God's revelation unto man, the vital bond inherent, in accordance with the divine creation, in the realities of things. Love is the one means that ensureth true felicity both in this world and the next. Love is the light that guideth in darkness, the living link that uniteth God with man, that assureth the progress of every illumined soul. Love is the most great law that ruleth this mighty and heavenly cycle, the unique power that bindeth together the divers elements of this material world, the supreme magnetic force that directeth the movements of the spheres in the celestial realms. Love revealeth with unfailing and limitless power the mysteries latent in the universe. Love is the spirit of life unto the adorned body of mankind, the establisher of true civilization in this mortal world, and the shedder of imperishable glory upon every high-aiming race and nation. SWAB#012 p027, Ruhi8.1.40

Just as love's power hath been developed to such a high degree among the Baha'is, and is far greater than among the people of other religions, so is it with all else as well; for love is the ground of all things. SWAB#031 p065-066

...the creative foundation in all its degrees and kingdoms is an expression of love. PUP.123

Throughout all creation, in all the kingdoms, this law is written:  that love and affinity are the cause of life, and discord and separation are the cause of death. PUP.207

We declare that love is the cause of the existence of all phenomena and that the absence of love is the cause of disintegration and nonexistence. Love is the conscious bestowal of God, the bond of affiliation in all phenomena.... The power of cohesion expressed in the mineral kingdom is in reality love or affinity manifested in a low degree according to the exigencies of the mineral world.... PUP.255

But these are only degrees of love which exist in the natural or physical world.  Their manifestation is ever according to the requirement of natural conditions and standards. PUP.256

When we observe the phenomena of the universe, we realize that the axis around which life revolves is love, while the axis around which death and destruction revolve is animosity and hatred.... The proof is clear that in all degrees and kingdoms unity and agreement, love and fellowship are the cause of life... PUP.268

Love is the very cause of life; on the other hand, separation brings death. In the world of material creation, for instance, all things owe their actual life to unity. PT#42:5 p139

In the divine world there is love, symbolized in the material world by magnetism. (Pilgrim notes of George Winterburn, Table Talks with Abdu'l-Baha in February 1904, pp. 4-5)

All things in Creation are formed by particles and atoms which are united by the power of attraction.... What is this power of attraction? Love! (Abdu'l-Baha, "Pilgrim notes Taken at the Holy Household", p. 5)

The first sign of faith is love. The message of the holy, divine Manifestations is love; the phenomena of all creation are based upon love; the radiance of the world is due to love; the well-being and happiness of the world depend upon it. Therefore, I admonish you that you must strive throughout the human world to diffuse the light of love. PUP.337

What a power is love! It is the most wonderful, the greatest of all living powers.... In the world of existence there is indeed no greater power than the power of love. PT#58:1-3 p179

...the variation in the stations of love are from differences of stations and stages and in each world of the worlds and in each stage of the stages there can be seen a magnetism of oneness. Within the grasp of its power is the mutual attraction of the reality of all things and the pulling [together] of the subtlety of Being. And this magnetism of oneness is the station of Love and Attraction (khullat). ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:015)

If the atoms which compose the kingdom of the minerals were without affinity for each other, the earth would never have been formed, the universe could not have been created.  Because they have affinity for each other, the power of life is able to manifest itself, and the organisms of the phenomenal world become possible. PUP.004

Consider: Unity is necessary to existence. Love is the very cause of life; on the other hand, separation brings death. In the world of material creation, for instance, all things owe their actual life to unity. PT#42:5 p139




The body of man is a prisoner of nature and will act in accordance with whatsoever nature dictates. SAQ#29.5 (was SAQ.119)

The sea in all its vastness cannot deviate one iota from the rule of nature; the sun in all its greatness cannot stray so much as a needle's point from the rule of nature, nor can it ever comprehend the states, conditions, properties, movements, and nature of man. SAQ#48.10 (was SAQ.189)

The phenomenal world is entirely subject to the rule and control of natural law. These myriad suns, satellites and heavenly bodies throughout endless space are all captives of nature. They cannot transgress in a single point or particular the fixed laws which govern the physical universe. PUP.017

The dull minerals in their affinities, plants and vegetables with power of growth, animals in their instinct, man with conscious intellect and the heavenly orbs moving obediently through limitless space are all found subject to universal law, most complete, most perfect. PUP.079

All created things are captives of nature and subject to its laws. They cannot transgress the control of these laws in one detail or particular. PUP.030

In the world of existence the animal is a captive of nature. Its actions are according to the exigencies and requirements of nature. PUP.040

The sun, that colossal center of our solar system, the giant stars and planets, the towering mountains, the earth itself and its kingdoms of life lower than the human - all are captives of nature except man. PUP.177

All material phenomena are subject to nature. ...All things are captives of nature except man.... How does he accomplish it? Through a spirit with which God has endowed him at creation. PUP.258-259

...all created things except man are subjects or captives of nature; they cannot deviate in the slightest degree from nature's law and control.  The colossal sun, center of our planetary system, is nature's captive, incapable of the least variation from the law of command. PUP.351

All creation, preceding Man, is bound by the stern law of nature. The great sun, the multitudes of stars, the oceans and seas, the mountains, the rivers, the trees, and all animals, great or small - none is able to evade obedience to nature's law. PT#11:5 p041

All creation is made subject to the laws of nature, but man has been able to conquer these laws. PT#39:21 p122

Mysteries that were hidden he discovers; and secrets that were concealed he brings into the light.  By Science and by Art he brings hidden powers into the region of the visible world.  Man perceives the hidden law in created things and co-operates with it. AL.023

On all sides he is surrounded by dangers and difficulties, against which his physical body alone cannot cope. If a man looks at the world around him, he will see how all created things are dependent and are captive to the laws of Nature. Man alone, by his spiritual power, has been able to free himself, to soar above the world of matter and to make it his servant. PT#03:6-7 p020




Thus, when you wish to express the reality of the spirit and its conditions and degrees, you are obliged to describe them in terms of sensible things, since outwardly there exists nothing but the sensible. SAQ#16.4
