



I need not dwell upon what I have already reiterated and emphasized that the administration of the Cause is to be conceived as an instrument and not a substitute for the Faith of Baha'u'llah, that it should be regarded as a channel through which His promised blessings may flow, that it should guard against such rigidity as would clog and fetter the liberating forces released by His Revelation. ...the whole machinery of assemblies, of committees and conventions is to be regarded as a means, and not an end in itself; that they will rise or fall according to their capacity to further the interests, to coordinate the activities, to apply the principles, to embody the ideals and execute the purpose of the Baha'i Faith.... It is surely for those to whose hands so priceless a heritage has been committed to prayerfully watch lest the tool should supersede the Faith itself, lest undue concern for the minute details arising from the administration of the Cause obscure the vision of its promoters, lest partiality, ambition, and worldliness tend in the course of time to becloud the radiance, stain the purity, and impair the effectiveness of the Faith of Baha'u'llah. WOB.009-010

Your questions are mostly along the line of trying to lay down a fixed pattern for future society, long before the time for such a pattern is ripe. Remember that Baha'u'llah says what is not already revealed, the International House of Justice must in the future legislate, and it can make, and abrogate if necessary, its own laws. This means not fixity in guiding society, but fluidity! LDG2.082 (31 Mar. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

In matters of principle, therefore,there should be uniformity, while in matters of detail and procedure not only is diversity permitted, it is also encouraged. As condition vary from country to country and, indeed, can vary from community to community within the country, Shoghi Effendi repeatedly advised the friends that they should be uncompromising in principle but flexible in subsidiary details. LG#137 (22 Oct. 1986 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

He wishes to keep the administration of the Cause as flexible as possible and not impede the work by a codified set of rules. UD.213 (29 Apr. 1948 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

In carrying out the basic laws of our Faith the friends should always maintain a standard of utmost simplicity and observe flexibility in all matters of detail. LG#460 (31 Aug. 1967 from the Universal House of Justice)

...your National Spiritual Assembly should take great care lest any uniform procedure or ritual in this matter [the funeral service] be adopted or imposed upon the friends. The danger in this, as in some other cases regarding Baha'i worship, is that a definite system or rigid rituals and practices be developed among the believers. The utmost simplicity and flexibility should be observed.... LG#658 (10 Jan. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The writings of Shoghi Effendi contain several statements on the need to uphold flexibility in matters of secondary importance. For example, in a letter to an individual believer, dated March 15, 1948 the following comment has been made on Shoghi Effendi's behalf: "In general the administrative order as laid down in America should be followed everywhere. But secondary decisions are left to the judgement of each National Assembly, and the American pattern, as elaborated in 'Baha'i Procedure', need not be followed universally." (24 May 1982 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

Since change, ever more rapid change, is a constant characteristic of life at this time, and since our growth, size and external relations demand much of us, our community must be ready to adapt. In a sense this means that the community must become more adept at accommodating a wide range of actions without losing concentration on the primary objectives of teaching, namely, expansion and consolidation. A unity in diversity of actions is called for, a condition in which different individuals will concentrate on different activities, appreciating the salutary effect of the aggregate on the growth and development of the Faith, because each person cannot do everything and all persons cannot do the same thing. This understanding is important to the maturity which, by the many demands being made upon it, the community is being forced to attain. Ridvan.1990

The tendency of the Baha'is all over the world is to constantly try to lay down new rules and regulations, and pour the Faith into moulds, whereas the Guardian insists on the greatest elasticity in details; and only the fundamentals, laid down by him already, should be universal and rigidly adhered to. (5 July 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to NSA US and Canada)

We should, however, be careful, as you mention in your letter, not to make this system develop into a hard and fast creed or form. The Cause is pure and free from such things and it ought to be the task of the friends to keep it broad and progressive. Man is always apt to fall into the habit of doing a thing in a certain way, and thereby become captive to prescribed forms. It should therefore be the duty of the assemblies everywhere to see that, though certain temporary measures are taken to further the Cause, they do not crystallise into hard and fast creeds. UD.421
