



According to the Baha'i Teachings the human soul starts with the formation of the human embryo, and continues to develop and pass through endless stages of existence after its separation from the body. Its progress is thus infinite. LG#680 (31 Dec. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The soul or spirit of the individual comes into being with the conception of his physical body. HE.071, LG#1699 (9 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...the Teachings state that the soul appears at conception. LG#1155 (23 May 1975 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

Concerning your question concerning the passage from the 'Seven Valleys' which refers to pre-existence, this does not suppose in any case the existence of the individual soul before conception. The word has not been translated in an absolutely adequate manner and what it signifies is that the soul of man is the depository of the ancient and divine mystery of God. LG#1699 (5 Jan. 1948 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi. See SV.01: "...graven upon the tablet of man the secrets of preexistence..." -- revised translation reads: "graven upon the tablet of man a measure of the mysteries of His eternity..." CDB#2.01)




Therefore it is necessary, according to true wisdom, that the Preexistent God describe Himself to His creatures, that they may recognize their Creator and that, out of the grace of the Pre-existent, the contingent beings may attain their supreme End. This divine self-description is itself a created thing. It is unlike any other description, the sign of 'He is the One Who hath no equal,' and the truth of the servant, his true being. Whoso hath recognized it hath recognized his Lord.... This description is denoted as the 'soul' or 'self', and he who hath known himself hath known his Lord. At other times, it is expressed as the heart, which is a description of the Divinity, by the Divinity, and is the essence of Servitude. It is the Sign of God shown by Him in the world and within the souls of men, that it may be revealed unto them that verily He is the Truth. Behold with the eye of thy heart. Verily thy truth, the truth of thy being, is the divinity of thy Lord revealed unto thee and through thee. Thou art He Himself, and He is thou thyself, except that indeed thou art that thou art, and He is that He is. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.251)

Every time I am reminded of Thee and muse on Thy virtues, I am seized with such ecstasies and am so enravished by Thee that I find myself unable to make mention of Thy name and to extol Thee. I am carried back to such heights that I recognize my self to be the same as the remembrance of Thee in Thy realm, and the essence of Thy praise among Thy servants. As long as that self endureth, so long will Thy praise continue to be shed abroad among Thy creatures and Thy remembrance glorified by Thy people. Every man endued with insight among Thy servants is persuaded that my self liveth eternally and can never perish, inasmuch as remembrance of Thee is eternal and will endure so long as Thine own Self endureth, and Thy praise is everlasting and will last as long as Thine own sovereignty will last. PM#078 p127
