



It is evident unto thee that the Birds of Heaven and Doves of Eternity speak a twofold language. One language, the outward language, is devoid of allusions, is unconcealed and unveiled.... The other language is veiled and concealed, so that whatever lieth hidden in the heart of the malevolent may be made manifest and their innermost being be disclosed....In such utterances, the literal meaning, as generally understood by the people, is not what hath been intended. KI#285 p254-255

Know that whoso clingeth to the outward sense (az-zahir) of the words, leaving aside their esoteric (al-batin) significance, is simply ignorant. And whoso concentrateth on the metaphorical sense to the exclusion of the prosaic meaning is heedless. Only the one who intepreteth the verses esoterically while harmonizing this reading with the literal meaning can be said to be a complete scholar. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tafsir-i-Suratu'l-Shams, in BSR2:1)         Alternate translation: "Know, then, that whosoever adhereth to the outward meaning while oblivious of the inward meaning is of the ignorant; that whosoever adhereth to the inward meaning while oblivious of the outward meaning is of the heedless; and that whosoever understandeth the inward meaning in the light of the outward meaning is of the truly learned." (quoted in "Revelation and Social Reality", p. 39)

At one time We spoke in the language of the lawgiver; at another in that of the truth-seeker and the mystic, and yet Our supreme purpose and highest wish hath always been to disclose the glory and sublimity of this station [of love and harmony]. ESW.015

Then, know thou that the power of the Word of God is effective, both in the spirit and the body, and the influence of the Spirit of God is predominant over the material as well as the essential and spiritual. And that, verily, God is powerful in all things, and that the signs (or verses) have exoteric and esoteric meaning, and neither their outward preventeth their inward, nor doth their inward prevent their outward meaning. TAB.608

Between the two extremes of abstraction or undifferentiated unity, and differentiation or utmost diversity, are many levels of structure and meaning in the text, including the verses, sentences, phrases, and words. The Bab explains the overall unity of the Surih of Abundance by relating all its different phrases and sentences together as expressions of the general meaning of the surih, in terms of the two modalities of {outward} and {inward} meaning, where the outward meaning pertains to historical reality, and the inward to metaphysical reality (Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 114)

Do not falsely interpret the Divine Word, and deprive not yourselves of its outward and manifest meaning, for none knoweth its true significance except God. The Most Great Name beareth Me witness! They who have failed to perceive the outward meaning of the Words, and claim to know their inner significances-such men have been and always will be lying impostors. Blessed are they that observe that which the outward biddeth and strive with all eagerness to attain unto the hidden meaning. (Provisional translation, BH01572)

By 'interpretation', is intended that none may be deprived of the apparent meaning of the words, or fail to grasp their purpose. For example, if the heaven of Divine Will should reveal the injunction 'wash your faces ... ', do not interpret the reference to such ablutions as the cleansing of one's inner countenancet, or its purifying with the waters of mystical insight and the like. How often doth a person 's face remain sullied and defiled due to such interpretations, while imagining himself to be acting according to the principles of the Faith of God; whereas in fact the obvious intention here is that the face should be washed with physical water. The inner meanings of certain of the Divine Words, however, may be expounded, if these interpretations do not become a source of idle fancies and vain imaginings, or be bereft of the Divine purpose. (Provisional translation, BH00013)

One of the binding exhortations and explicit admonitions of the Greatest Name is to close the doors of interpretation. All should adhere to the explicit text of the Book, that is to say the literal meaning of the words current amongst men. (Provisional translation, AB11886)
