



The advocates of the doctrine of the unity of existence are joining partners with God by virtue of the testimony of the idea of existence itself. For the "unity" affirmed by them is derivative of the existence of duality; otherwise why would they deny the duality and affirm the unity? Likewise, those who advocate that the cause of the existence of the contingent beings is the Essence of God, and thus believe in some form of relation between the two, are disbelievers. For causation is dependent on the association with the effect, and relation is dependent on the existence of duality, whereas both conditions are utterly false. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.191-192)

For, verily, when a thing is made mention of, it becometh invested with the station of existence, and it is impossible for the thing to exist except through the station of essence, which is the agent of the acceptance of existence. And the affirmation of duality requireth the affirmation of the link between the two. And by virtue of the realization of the link in the station of the trinity, it is necessary, according to wisdom, that four further stages be realized for the descent of the Command from the Unseen Realm to the manifest world. Thus the utterance of truth requireth the affirmation of the seven stages of causation at all levels of existence. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.203)




...the bearer of the essence (jawhar) is the active agent (fa'il)... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.037)

...the substance (maddih) and primary matter (hayula) of contingent beings is the ethereal power, which is invisible and only known through its effects, such as electricity, light, and heat - these are vibrations (waves - amvaj) [of that power], and this is established and proven in natural philosophy and is known as the ethereal substance. This ethereal substance is itself both the active force and the recipient; in other words, it is the sign of the Primal Will in the phenomenal world.... The ethereal substance is, therefore, the cause since light, heat, and electricity appear from it. It is also the effect, for as vibrations take place in it, they become visible. For instance, light is a wave occurring in that ethereal substance. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS2:3 p.28, MA2.069)

It is assuredly the quintessence of [the divine, Cosmic] Activity (jawhar al-fa`il) from which are established the foundations of the world (qawwam al-`alām). It is [also] the "Heat" without which there would be no motion (al-haraka); for motion is a result of the action which is engendered thereby. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA4.080, quoted here)

The world of existence came into being through the heat generated from the interaction between the active force and that which is its recipient. These two are the same, yet they are different. Thus doth the Great Announcement inform thee about this glorious structure. Such as communicate the generating influence [the twin agents; al-fa`ilayn] and such as receive its impact [the twin patients; al-munfa`ilayn] are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God which is the Cause of the entire creation... TB.140

Say: Through all that which We have expounded the four humors (al-akhlat) will not exceed their moderate balance (al-i'tidal), neither will their measures deviate from their mean conditions. The [human constitutional] foundation will remain in its purity and the sixth part and the sixth of the sixth part in their stable condition. The fa`ilayn and the munfa`ilayn will be rendered whole. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translations, Lawh-i-Tibb, in BSB6:4-7:2)

...the two active agents are fire and water, while the two passive agents are earth and air. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.047)

The way (the tao) begets one; one begets two; two begets three; three begets the myriad creatures. The myriad creatures carry on their backs the yin and embrace in their arms the yang and are the blending of the generative forces of the two. (Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching, xlii)




The 'E' (nun) in the stage of utterance [exposition] is the same as the 'B' (kaf). It is the totality of the possible (imkan), and the possible itself in the world of contingency is fully contained in the word 'Be!' (kun). The Kaf is the stage of the Will (mashiyyat) and the Nun is the stage of Purpose (iradih). Mashiyyat is the Father of things and Iradih the Mother. As He [Muhammad] hath stated: ' 'Ali and I are the parents of this people.' Through the Kaf God created the matter (madda) of all things...and through the Nun God created the form (Sura) of all things. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir-i Bismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim, cited by M. Afnan in Ahang-i Badi', vol. 24 (126 B.E.), no. 5-6, p. 126. INBA 60:48-49, also INBA 64:74; quoted here)

The beginning of all the worlds was by the Divine Purpose (iradih), which was produced by the Primal Will (mashiyyat). (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 5:10)

The relationship that binds [God to His creation], which is mentioned in the Tablets, only appeared from His Will (iradih), which was sent forth from His Volition (mashiyyat), and which in turn was generated by My all-encompassing and irrevocable decree (amr). (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Ridvanu'l-'Adl, AQA 4:300)

He [God] it is Who hath created all that is in the heavens and on the earth by the word of his Command, which He hath designated as the 'B' before the 'E'. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in V. Ra'fati, "Fa'ilayn va Munfa'ilayn", 'Andalib 5.19:29, INBA81:99-101)

Shoghi Effendi, in letters written on his behalf, has explained the significance of the "letters B and E." They constitute the word "Be", which, he states, "means the creative Power of God Who through His command causes all things to come into being" and "the power of the Manifestation of God, His great spiritual creative force." (KA n88, 28 Mar. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

His command when He willeth aught, is but to say to it, be (Kun), and it is. Qur'an 36:80; also 2:117

I recognize, O my God, that whenever something is related to Thee, the decree of the Will (Mashiyyat) is applicable to it, and whenever it is related to itself, the decree of Purpose (Iradih) is established in it. When this duality is realized the decree of predestination (Qadar) is manifested. After these three have descended, all seven will be generated, inasmuch as it is impossible for anything to be realized save through these seven stages. Six of them belong to the letter Waw in connection to the limitations of things, and one of them belongeth to their manifestations in the station of the Sign of God. Nothing is created in the heavens or on the earth except through them. Moreover, it is impossible for something to become clothed in the garment of existence without a fire belonging to its first remembrance, then a water, and then an earth for the preservation of its existence. Thus, hath God, in fairness, made plain His signs in both souls and in the world. (The Bab, provisional translation, AvK1.100, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages)

Were anyone to consider the substance, he would realize that the origin of all the worlds is in the station of Purpose, which becometh existent through the Will.... (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 2:16)

How can, then, such a man succeed in befittingly extolling the One through a motion of Whose finger all the names and their kingdom (Malakut) were called into being, and all the attributes and their dominion (Jabarut) were created, and Who, through yet another motion of that same finger, hath united the letters B and E (Be) and knit them together, manifesting thereby what the highest thoughts of Thy chosen ones who enjoy near access to Thee are unable to grasp, and what the profoundest wisdom of those of Thy loved ones that are wholly devoted to Thee are powerless to fathom. PM#179 p303, Ruhi6.1.22
