



But true felicity for the animal consists in passing from the animal world into the human realm, like the microscopic beings that, through the air and the water, enter into the body of man, are assimilated, and replace that which has been consumed in his body. SAQ#15.5 (was SAQ.079)

...whensoever a thing is destroyed, and decayeth, and is cut off from life, it is promoted into a world that is greater than the world it knew before. It leaveth, for example, the life of the mineral and goeth forward into the life of the plant; then it departeth out of the vegetable life and ascendeth into that of the animal... SWAB#137 p157-158

...the atoms of the material elements are transferable from one form of existence to another, from one degree and kingdom to another, lower or higher. For example, an atom of the soil or dust of earth may traverse the kingdoms from mineral to man by successive incorporations into the bodies of the organisms of those kingdoms.... Throughout these degrees of its traversing the kingdoms from one form of phenomenal being to another, it retains its atomic existence and is never annihilated PUP.087-088

...each atom of the atoms of substance is moving through the various degrees and kingdoms of organic life....  In the same manner the bestowals of God are moving and circulating throughout all created things. PUP.160

...every primordial atom of these atoms, singly and indivisible, has had its coursings throughout all the sentient creation, going constantly into the aggregation of the various elements.  Hence do you have the conservation of energy and the infinity of phenomena, the indestructibility of phenomena, ... because life cannot suffer annihilation but only change. FWU.052

The mineral evolves till it is absorbed in the life of the plant, the plant progresses till finally it loses its life in that of the animal; the animal, in its turn, forming part of the food of man, is absorbed into human life. PT#29:19 p092

Every single atom of these aggregate atoms has its myriad transferences as has been proved by science.  Every single atom has its coursings throughout all the kingdoms of life....  Along the degrees of the mineral kingdom it journeyed, appearing in various forms and reflecting various images, manifesting a peculiar virtue in each. ADP.167

The elemental atoms which constitute all phenomenal existence and being in this illimitable universe are in perpetual motion, undergoing continuous degrees of progression. ...the constituent elemental atoms of phenomena undergo progressive transferrence and motion throughout the material kingdoms. PUP.284-285

The forms of life are infinite, therefore the transferences of this primordial unit throughout the degrees of creation are infinite. ADP.168

In its ceaseless progression and journeyings the atom becomes imbued with the virtues and powers of each degree or kingdom it traverses. PUP.285

In the physical creation, evolution is from one degree of perfection to another.... This world is full of seeming contradictions; in each of these kingdoms (mineral, vegetable and animal) life exists in its degree... PT#20:14 p066

...each elemental atom of the universe is possessed of a capacity to express all the virtues of the universe.  This is a subtle and abstract realization. Meditate upon it, for within it lies the true explanation of pantheism. From this point of view and perception pantheism is a truth, for every atom in the universe possesses or reflects all the virtues of life, the manifestation of which is effected through change and transformation. PUP.285-286

It is evident that each material organism is an aggregate expression of single and simple elements, and a given cellular element or atom has its coursings or journeyings through various and myriad stages of life.... each phenomena is the expression in degree of all other phenomena. The difference is one of successive transferrences and the period of time involved in evolutionary process. PUP.349




Perfections which are acquired in the realm below become manifested in the realm above, for the realm below hath not the capacity to manifest that endowment. For example, the capacity and endowment which the mineral acquireth in the mineral realm is not manifested in that realm: rather, it is when it passeth from the mineral to the vegetal realm that its endowment is manifested. And when the plant acquires, while in the vegetal kingdom, the capacity to manifest the power of the senses, that perfection becometh manifested upon its passage into the animal realm. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.120-121; MKT4:048)
