



Is nature itself a species of soul/spirit? Enn.III.8.4         see also handasatu'l-ashya.         Relationship to the Covenant?




...the Divinity Himself ... has arranged this infinite universe in the most perfect form and arrayed its countless beings in the utmost order, soundness, and perfection. SAQ#30.3 (was SAQ.123)

When one examines creation with a penetrating eye, when one grasps the intricacies of created things and witnesses the condition, the order, and the completeness of the world of existence, one is convinced of the truth that "there is naught in creation more wondrous than that which already exists". For all existing things, whether on earth or in the heavens, even this limitless firmament and all that it contains, have been most befittingly created, arranged, composed, ordered, and completed, and suffer no imperfection. To such an extent is this true that if all beings were to become pure intelligence and to reflect until the end that has no end, they could not possibly imagine anything better than that which already exists. SAQ#46.2 (was SAQ.177)

Likewise, look into this endless universe: a universal power inevitably existeth, which encompasseth all, directing and regulating all the parts of this infinite creation; and were it not for this Director, this Co-ordinator, the universe would be flawed and deficient. It would be even as a madman; whereas ye can see that this endless creation carrieth out its functions in perfect order, every separate part of it performing its own task with complete reliability, nor is there any flaw to be found in all its workings. Thus it is clear that a Universal Power existeth, directing and regulating this infinite universe. SWAB#021 p048-049

The elements and lower organisms are synchronized in the great plan of life.... From the fellowship and commingling of the elemental atoms life results.  In their harmony and blending there is ever newness of existence.  It is radiance, completeness; it is consummation; it is life itself.... PUP.350

Gazing with the eye of absolute insight, the wayfarer in this valley seeth in God's creation neither contradiction nor incongruity, and at every moment exclaimeth, "No defect canst thou see in the creation of the God of mercy. Repeat the gaze: Seest thou a single flaw?" [Qur'an 67:3] CDB#2.24 (was SV.12)

...as some of the philosophers have cited from the words of Idris: 'It is impossible for the realm of creation to be better than it already is.' (Baha'u'llah, in JBS5:4, p.59 and Revisioning the Sacred p.174)

All beings, whether universal or particular, were created perfect and complete from the beginning. The most one can say is that their perfections only become apparent gradually. The law of God is one; the evolution of existence is one; the divine order is one. All beings great and small are subject to one law and one order. Every seed has, from the beginning, all the perfections of the plant. For example, all the vegetable perfections existed in this seed at the outset but were invisible and appeared only gradually. So it is the shoot which first appears from the seed, then the branches, leaves, and blossoms, and finally the fruit. But from the beginning of its formation, all of these existed potentially, albeit invisibly, in the seed. Likewise, from the beginning the embryo possesses all perfections, such as the spirit, the mind, sight, smell, and taste--in a word, all the powers--but they are invisible and become apparent only gradually. Similarly, the terrestrial globe was created, from the beginning, with all its elements, substances, minerals, parts, and components, but these appeared only gradually: first the minerals, then the plants, then the animals, and finally man. But from the beginning, these kinds and species were latent in the earthly realm and appeared gradually thereafter. SAQ#51.4-5 (was SAQ.199)

If you examine the matter with care, you will see that even in their most outward sense the perfections of existence are infinite; for it is impossible to find any created thing such that nothing superior to it can be imagined.... As the grace of God is limitless, so too are the perfections of man. If it were possible for the reality of anything to reach the very summit of perfection, then it would become independent of God and the contingent reality would attain to the station of the necessary reality. But every created thing has been assigned a degree which it can in no wise overpass. SAQ#62.1-2 (was SAQ.230)

When we carefully investigate the kingdoms of existence and observe the phenomena of the universe about us, we discover the absolute order and perfection of creation.... a wise philosopher has said, 'There is no greater or more perfect system of creation than that which already exists.' PUP.079-080

The world of nature is the kingdom of the animal. In its natural condition and plane of limitation the animal is perfect. PUP.311

Now, so long as the degrees of created things are different, some will naturally rank above the others. ...the election of certain creatures, such as man, for the highest degree; the maintenance of others, such as plants, in the middle degree; and the relegation of yet others, such as minerals, to the lowest degree are each and all due to the divine will and purpose.... As for material beings, they are not to be blamed, judged, or held accountable for their own degrees and stations. Thus the mineral, the plant, and the animal are each acceptable in their own degree, but if they were to remain deficient in that degree they would be blameworthy, the degree itself being wholly perfect. SAQ#32.5-6 (was SAQ.130)

The individuality of each created thing is based upon divine wisdom, for in the creation of God there is no defect. ADP.131

In sum, all beings, whether universal or particular, are mutually connected in accordance with God's consummate wisdom and mutually influence one another. Were it not so, the all-embracing organization and universal arrangement of existence would become disordered and disrupted. And as all created things are most soundly connected one with another, they are well ordered, arranged, and perfected. SAQ#69.6 (was SAQ.247)

In the innate nature of things there is no evil--all is good. This applies even to certain apparently blameworthy attributes and dispositions which seem inherent in some people, but which are not in reality reprehensible. For example, you can see in a nursing child, from the beginning of its life, the signs of greed, of anger, and of ill temper; and so it might be argued that good and evil are innate in the reality of man, and that this is contrary to the pure goodness of the innate nature and of creation. The answer is that greed, which is to demand ever more, is a praiseworthy quality provided that it is displayed under the right circumstances. Thus, should a person show greed in acquiring science and knowledge, or in the exercise of compassion, high-mindedness, and justice, this would be most praiseworthy. And should he direct his anger and wrath against the bloodthirsty tyrants who are like ferocious beasts, this too would be most praiseworthy. But should he display these qualities under other conditions, this would be deserving of blame. SAQ#57.10 (was SAQ.215)




God is pure perfection and the creation is absolute imperfection. SAQ#27.4 (was SAQ.113)

The world of nature is defective....  It is an essential condition of the soil of earth that thorns, weeds and fruitless trees may grow from it. Relatively speaking, this is evil; it is simply the lower state and baser product of nature. PUP.294

Nature is the material world. When we look upon it, we see that it is dark and imperfect.... For instance, if we allow a piece of land to remain in its natural condition, we will find it covered with thorns and thistles; useless weeds and wild vegetation will flourish upon it, and it will become like a jungle.... This is the incompleteness and imperfection of the world of nature. PUP.308-309

If the world of nature were perfect and sufficient for mankind, we would have no need of God and our belief in him.  Therefore, the bestowal of all these great helps and accessories to the attainment of divine life is because the world of nature is incomplete and imperfect. PUP.310

The materialists hold to the opinion that the world of nature is complete. The divine philosophers declare that the world of nature is incomplete. There is a wide difference between the two.... The divine philosophers deny this seeming perfection and completeness in nature's kingdom, even though admitting the beauty of its scenes and aspects and acknowledging the irresistible cosmic forces which control the colossal suns and planets. ...while nature seems perfect, it is, nevertheless, imperfect because it has need of intelligence and education.... the world of nature is imperfect, the world of education perfect. PUP.329

...the realm of nature is a condition of animalism, darkness and defect. PUP.332

...the intended and especial function of man is to rescue and redeem himself from the inherent defects of nature... PUP.352

...the world of nature is inherently defective in cause and outcome and ... the defects therein must be removed by education....  the world of nature unassisted is imperfect because it is a plane upon which the struggle for physical existence expresses itself. PUP.400

The world of existence is but a jungle of disorder and confusion, a state of nature producing nothing but fruitless, useless trees. PUP.466

...the world of nature is incomplete, imperfect until awakened and illumined by the light and stimulus of education. PUP.309

Now, so long as the degrees of created things are different, some will naturally rank above the others. ...the election of certain creatures, such as man, for the highest degree; the maintenance of others, such as plants, in the middle degree; and the relegation of yet others, such as minerals, to the lowest degree are each and all due to the divine will and purpose.... As for material beings, they are not to be blamed, judged, or held accountable for their own degrees and stations. Thus the mineral, the plant, and the animal are each acceptable in their own degree, but if they were to remain deficient in that degree they would be blameworthy, the degree itself being wholly perfect. SAQ#32.5-6 (was SAQ.130)




In this material world, man is subject to the force of instinctual desires, of which sin is the inevitable consequence, for these desires are not bound by the laws of justice and righteousness. The body of man is a prisoner of nature and will act in accordance with whatsoever nature dictates. It follows that sins--such as wrathfulness, envy, contentiousness, greed, avarice, ignorance, rancour, corruption, pride, and cruelty--must exist in the material world. All these bestial attributes exist in the nature of man.... All sin is prompted by the dictates of nature. These dictates of nature, which are among the hallmarks of corporeal existence, are not sins with respect to the animal but are sins with regard to man. The animal is the source of imperfections such as anger, lust, envy, greed, cruelty, and pride. All these blameworthy qualities are found in the nature of the animal, and do not constitute sins with regard to the animal, whereas they are sins with regard to man. SAQ#29.5-6 (was SAQ.119)

...when the spirit and the self of Adam became attached to the material world, they passed from the realm of freedom into the realm of bondage; this condition was perpetuated with each succeeding generation, and this attachment of spirit and self to the material world--which is sin--was inherited by His descendants. This attachment is the serpent which will forever be in the midst of, and at enmity with, the spirits of the descendants of Adam, for attachment to the world has become the cause of the bondage of the spirits. This bondage is that sin which has been transmitted from Adam to His descendants, for it has deprived men of recognizing their essential spirituality and attaining to exalted stations.... This sin in Adam, moreover, is relative to His station: Although this worldly attachment produced substantial results, yet in relation to attachment to the spiritual realm it is nonetheless regarded as a sin, and the truth of the saying, "The good deeds of the righteous are the sins of the near ones" is established. SAQ#30.8-12 (was SAQ.124-126)

Adam was the cause of material life, and since the material world of man is the realm of imperfections, and since imperfection is tantamount to death, Paul compared the former to the latter. SAQ#29.8 (was SAQ.120)

We must therefore labour to destroy the animal condition, till the meaning of humanity cometh to light. CDB#2.71 (was SV.34)

It is an essential condition of the soil of earth that thorns, weeds and fruitless trees may grow from it. Relatively speaking, this is evil; it is simply the lower state and baser product of nature.  It is evident, therefore, that man is in need of divine education and inspiration, that the spirit and bounties of God are essential to his development. PUP.295

In the innate nature of things there is no evil--all is good. This applies even to certain apparently blameworthy attributes and dispositions which seem inherent in some people, but which are not in reality reprehensible. For example, you can see in a nursing child, from the beginning of its life, the signs of greed, of anger, and of ill temper; and so it might be argued that good and evil are innate in the reality of man, and that this is contrary to the pure goodness of the innate nature and of creation. The answer is that greed, which is to demand ever more, is a praiseworthy quality provided that it is displayed under the right circumstances. Thus, should a person show greed in acquiring science and knowledge, or in the exercise of compassion, high-mindedness, and justice, this would be most praiseworthy. And should he direct his anger and wrath against the bloodthirsty tyrants who are like ferocious beasts, this too would be most praiseworthy. But should he display these qualities under other conditions, this would be deserving of blame. SAQ#57.10 (was SAQ.215)

Evil is imperfection. Sin is the state of man in the world of the baser nature, for in nature exist defects such as injustice, tyranny, hatred, hostility, strife: these are characteristics of the lower plane of nature. These are the sins of the world, the fruits of the tree from which Adam did eat. Through education we must free ourselves from these imperfections. PT#56:1 p177

May my inmost being be offered up for the sins of them that have sinned against Thee, for it is as a result of such sins that the Day Star of Thy manifold favors revealeth itself above the horizon of Thy bounty, and the clouds of Thy never-failing providence rain down their gifts upon the realities of all created things. GWB#142 p311




...no matter how perfect the painting may be, in comparison with the painter it is utterly deficient. SAQ#2.2 (was SAQ.005)

God is pure perfection and the creation is absolute imperfection. SAQ#27.4 (was SAQ.113)

...the world of things is a world of imperfection in relation to that of man, and the world of man is a world of perfection in relation to that of things. SAQ#38.6 (was SAQ.152)

...it is said in the Gospel that God is like a potter who makes "one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour". Now, the dishonoured vessel has no right to reproach the potter, saying, "Why did you not make me a precious cup that would be passed from hand to hand?" The meaning of these words is that souls occupy different stations. That which occupies the lowest station of existence, like the mineral, has no right to object, saying, "O God, why have you denied me the perfections of the plant?" Likewise, the plant has no right to protest that it has been deprived of the perfections of the animal realm. And, similarly, it is not befitting for the animal to complain of the want of human perfections. No, all these things are perfect in their own degree and must pursue the perfections of that degree. SAQ#70.5 (was SAQ.249) cf. Omar Khayyam (Fitzgerald translation, 1st edition): Listen again. One Evening at the Close Of Ramazan, ere the better Moon arose, In that old Potter's Shop I stood alone With the clay Population round in Rows. And, strange to tell, among that Earthen Lot Some could articulate, while others not: And suddenly one more impatient cried-- ``Who is the Potter, pray, and who the Pot?'' Then said another--``Surely not in vain ``My Substance from the common Earth was ta'en, ``That He who subtly wrought me into Shape ``Should stamp me back to common Earth again.'' Another said--``Why, ne'er a peevish Boy, ``Would break the Bowl from which he drank in Joy; ``Shall He that made the vessel in pure Love ``And Fansy, in an after Rage destroy?'' None answer'd this; but after Silence spake A Vessel of a more ungainly Make: ``They sneer at me for leaning all awry; ``What! did the Hand then of the Potter shake?'' Said one--``Folks of a surly Tapster tell, ``And daub his Visage with the Smoke of Hell; ``They talk of some strict Testing of us--Pish! ``He's a Good Fellow, and 'twill all be well.'' Then said another with a long-drawn Sigh, ``My Clay with long oblivion is gone dry: ``But, fill me with the old familiar Juice, ``Methinks I might recover by-and-by!''

Now, so long as the degrees of created things are different, some will naturally rank above the others. ...the election of certain creatures, such as man, for the highest degree; the maintenance of others, such as plants, in the middle degree; and the relegation of yet others, such as minerals, to the lowest degree are each and all due to the divine will and purpose.... As for material beings, they are not to be blamed, judged, or held accountable for their own degrees and stations. Thus the mineral, the plant, and the animal are each acceptable in their own degree, but if they were to remain deficient in that degree they would be blameworthy, the degree itself being wholly perfect. SAQ#32.5-6 (was SAQ.130)
