



We regard man as the chief member because, among all created things, he encompasses all the perfections of existence. Now, what we mean by "man" is the complete human being, the foremost person in the world, who is the sum of all spiritual and material perfections, and who is like the sun among all created things. Imagine, then, a time when the sun did not exist as such, in other words, when the sun was merely another celestial body. Undoubtedly, at such a time the relationships between existing things would have been disrupted. SAQ#46.4-5 (was SAQ.178)

In the Qur'an it is said: "And We sent Our Spirit to her, and He took before her the form of a perfect man", meaning that the Holy Spirit assumed a human form, as an image appears in a mirror, and conversed with Mary. SAQ#17.3 (was SAQ.087)

Now, all created things tell of this light, partake of its rays, and receive their portion thereof, but the full splendour of the perfections, bounties, and attributes of the Divinity shines forth from the reality of the Perfect Man, that is, that unique Individual Who is the universal Manifestation of God. For the other beings have each received only a portion of that light, but the universal Manifestation of God is the mirror held before this Sun, and the latter manifests itself therein with all its perfections, attributes, signs, and effects. The knowledge of the reality of the Divinity is in no wise possible, but the knowledge of the Manifestations of God is the knowledge of God, for the bounties, splendours, and attributes of God are manifest in Them. Thus, whoso attains to the knowledge of the Manifestations of God attains to the knowledge of God... SAQ#59.8-9 (was SAQ.222)

Man, therefore, on the plane of the contingent world is the most perfect being. By man is meant the perfect individual, who is like unto a mirror in which the divine perfections are manifested and reflected. But the sun doth not descend from the height of its sanctity to enter into the mirror, but when the latter is purified and turned towards the Sun of Truth, the perfections of this Sun, consisting of light and heat, are reflected and manifested in that mirror. These souls are the Divine Manifestations of God. SWAB#030 p062

The sign of the invisible heaven must needs be revealed in the person of that perfect man (insan kamil) who, before each Manifestation appeareth, educateth, and prepareth the souls of men for the advent of the divine Luminary, the Light of the unity of God amongst men. KI#073 p066

Both before and after casting off this elemental frame, the human soul progresses in perfections but not in station. The progression of all created things culminates in perfect man, and no greater being than him exists: Man, having reached the human station, can progress only in perfections and not in station, for there is no higher station to which he can find passage than that of a perfect man. SAQ#64.6 (was SAQ.237)

The Perfect Man is as a polished mirror reflecting the Sun of Truth, manifesting the attributes of God. PT#05:15 p025

...the perfect man, the Prophet, is one who is transfigured, one who has the purity and clearness of a perfect mirror - one who reflects the Sun of Truth. Of such a one - of such a Prophet and Messenger - we can say that the Light of Divinity with the heavenly Perfections dwells in him. AL.023-024

Man is the sum of creation, and the Perfect Man is the expression of the complete thought of the Creator - the Word of God. PT#15:2 p051

But from the beginning that has no beginning to the end that has no end, a perfect Manifestation has always existed. This Man of Whom we speak here is not just any man: That which we intend is the Perfect Man. For the noblest part of the tree, and the fundamental purpose of its existence, is the fruit. A tree without fruit is of no use. Therefore, it cannot be imagined that the world of existence, whether in the realms above or below, was once populated by cows and donkeys, cats, and mice, and yet was deprived of the presence of man. What a false and vacuous notion! SAQ#50.5 (was SAQ.197)
