



In another sense, they mean the appearance of that immortal Beauty in the image of mortal man, with such human limitations as eating and drinking, poverty and riches, glory and abasement, sleeping and waking, and such other things as cast doubt in the minds of men, and cause them to turn away.... As these holy Persons were subject to such needs and wants, the people were, consequently, lost in the wilds of misgivings and doubts, and were afflicted with bewilderment and perplexity. KI#079 p072

...a Man, Who hath been living in their midst, Who, with respect to every human limitation, hath been their equal... KI#081 p074

Viewed in light of their second station - the station of distinction, differentiation, temporal limitations, characteristics and standards, - they manifest absolute servitude, utter destitution and complete self-effacement. KI#194 p178, GWB#022 p053-054

That the Manifestations of Divine justice, the Day Springs of heavenly grace, have when they appeared amongst men always been destitute of all earthly dominion and shorn of the means of worldly ascendancy, should be attributed to this same principle of separation and distinction which animateth the Divine Purpose. GWB#029 p071

The holy Manifestations have three stations: the corporeal station, the station of the rational soul, and the station of perfect divine manifestation and heavenly splendour. Their bodies perceive things only according to the capacity of the material world, and so it is that They have at certain times expressed physical weakness. SAQ#58.5 (was SAQ.218)

We must not only be patient with others, infinitely patient!, but also with our own poor selves, remembering that even the Prophets of God sometimes got tired and cried out in despair! UD.456-457 (22 Oct. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is clear that the prophets and Manifestations of the Cause of God were sent to guide the nations, to improve their characters, and to bring the people nearer to their Source and ultimate Goal. They were not sent as historians, astronomers, philosophers, or natural scientists. Their position in the world of creation is like that of the heart in the body: it has a universal position with a general effect. The position of the learned in the world of earthly dominion is like that of a specific organ. That is, they have a particular position and a special effect. Therefore, the prophets have indulged the people in regard to their historical notions, folk stories, and scientific principles, and have spoken to them according to these. They conversed as was appropriate to their audience and hid certain realities behind the curtain of allusion. They secluded the holy maidens of meaning in the palaces of sacred verses, veiling them in eloquent metaphors. (Mirza Abu'l-Fadl, Miracles and Metaphors, p. 9)




There is no special physical significance in the remains of the Prophets or relics of Their Persons. But there is a profound spiritual significance in the sense that Their dust was the physical mirror of the greatness of God. In other words we know God through His Prophets, Who have bodies; these bodies - Their very dust - are precious through association. LG#1711 (13 Nov. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The atoms of the Prophets are just atoms, like all others, but the association of this great spiritual power with them leaves, in the place they are laid to rest, a spiritual atmosphere, if one can use this expression. They are, no doubt, endowed with a tremendous and far-reaching power. But the physical character of their atoms are not different from other people's, any more than their bodies and physical functions are different. LG#1712 (28 Oct. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
