



The world i.e. the universe, is eternal. The earth is but one planet where natural life is millions and millions of years old. (Fallscheer notes, p. 35)

This universe is not created through the fortuitous concurrences of atoms; it is created by a great law which decrees that the tree bring forth certain definite fruit. Verily, this universe contains many worlds of which we know nothing. ADP.140

Through His potency the Trees of Divine Revelation have yielded their fruits, every one of which hath been sent down in the form of a Prophet, bearing a Message to God's creatures in each of the worlds whose number God, alone, in His all-encompassing knowledge, can reckon. GWB#051 p104

Verily I say, the creation of God embraceth worlds besides this world, and creatures apart from these creatures. In each of these worlds He hath ordained things which none can search except Himself, the All-Searching, the All-Wise. GWB#079 p152-153, TB.188

The learned men, that have fixed at several thousand years the life of this earth, have failed, throughout the long period of their observation, to consider either the number or the age of the other planets.... Know thou that every fixed star hath its own planets, and every planet its own creatures, whose number no man can compute. GWB#082 p163

After souls become delivered from their physical forms, they have another mode of expression, which is a heavenly reality sanctified and free from the accidents of this evanescent world. These numberless globes, however, all belong to the world of elements, whose beings are subject to composition and decomposition. The world of the Kingdom is free from composition and decomposition. Nonetheless, it is clear that every container hath its contents, every place its dimensions, every bouquet its flowers, and every garden its songbirds. These great existents are certainly not void and empty of life, nor is His creation vain and futile. The Qur'an is very explicit on this theme, but despite this clarity its negligent commentators have failed to grasp the truth. As He sayeth: "Among His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the living creatures he hath scattered throughout them." (Qur'an 42:29) He declareth that one of the clear signs indicating His presence is the heavens and the earth, and the living, animate beings which have been created within them. Observe that it is explicit that the heavens contain animate beings. The term used in Arabic (Dabba) referreth to animate beings that have volitional movement. This is all time permits. AvK1.144, AvK1.281; PC00515

Each one of the stars of the heavens hath its own creatures. This globe of the earth, in all its vastness, is an insignificant thing, and yet it is neither empty nor void -- how much more, then, these shining and luminous bodies. In the Qur'an it is explicitly stated: 'And among His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the living creatures that He hath scattered within them both [42:29].' [Note that] 'within them both' [fihima] is stated, not 'within it' [fiha]. It is evident that, within each one of these creations, rational creatures are found to exist. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.145)

As to thy question regarding the planets, when thou asketh whether the planets that orbit their central suns through the power of attraction possess creatures like those of earth: Know that in the clear text of the Qur'an, God hath given a complete and sufficient explanation that delighteth the ears, saying that "the creation of the heavens and the earth and whatever creatures He hath spread forth in both of them". He explicitly states that in both heaven and earth there exist beings that move by volition. Without doubt or uncertainty, every being that moves by volition must either possess animal life or human reality. The majority of scholars who knew not the meaning of the Qur'an and wished to reconcile the clear verse with Ptolemaic principles - which were but illusions or like a mirage in the desert that the thirsty one supposeth to be water - said that the beings that move by volition in heaven refer to the angels of the Supreme Concourse. As to the nature of those beings, whether they resemble earthly creatures - yes, but only in the way marine creatures differ from terrestrial ones, aerial beings from fiery ones. According to their different natures and varying elemental compositions, these beings differ in the components that constitute their essence. As to your question whether through scientific principles and rational proofs one can be guided to this matter [of life on other planets], or if guidance depends upon divine instruction and heavenly inspiration, know that the comprehension of these scientific realities is contingent upon divine grace and celestial revelation. The intellect and technical principles have a certain degree of power to comprehend these realities in general through rational investigation and astronomical instruments. The intellect hovers around this sanctuary but cannot enter therein. The proof of this is the spectroscopic analysis which reveals through light the elements composing the planets, showing that living beings on those planets must necessarily correspond to those elements. This is the truth, and beyond truth there is naught but error. AB00501

...the creatures which Baha'u'llah states to be found in every planet cannot be considered to be necessarily similar or different from human beings on this earth. Baha'u'llah does not specifically state whether such creatures are like or unlike us. He simply refers to the fact that there are creatures in every planet. It remains for science to discover one day the exact nature of these creatures. LG#1581 (9 Feb. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, commenting on Gleanings#82)

As to you question whether the power of Baha'u'llah extends over our solar system and to higher worlds: while the Revelation of Baha'u'llah, it should be noted, is primarily for this planet, yet the spirit animating it is all-embracing, and the scope therefore cannot be restricted or defined. LG#1594 (14 Jul. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As you rightly state, Baha'u'llah affirms that every fixed star has its planets, and every planet its own creatures. The House of Justice states however, that it has not discovered anything in the Baha'i Writings which would indicate the degree of progress such creatures may have attained. (From a letter on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, 11 Jan. 1982, cited in a Research Dept. memorandum of 20 Oct. 1987, quoted here)

...'Abdu'l-Baha stated there are other worlds than ours which are inhabited by beings capable of knowing God. (31 Mar. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

You have asked concerning the stars, whether they are void - uninhabited. Know thou that God hath not created all these things without a purpose. Every one of these stars is like unto a sphere of earth and with utmost grandeur are inhabited by living beings. Notwithstanding that this sphere of earth is so small it contains many different species, then how much more those great celestial bodies! Existing beings live in each according to its composition and it is sure that none are void. (Abdu'l-Baha, Tablet to Helen Goodall, 2 Nov. 1908)

The earth has its inhabitants, the water and the air contain many living beings and all the elements have their nature spirits, then how is it possible to conceive that these stupendous stellar bodies are not inhabited? Verily, they are peopled, but let it be known that the dwellers accord with the elements of their respective spheres. These living beings do not have states of consciousness like unto those who live on the surface of this globe:  the power of adaptation and environment moulds their bodies and states of consciousness, just as our bodies and minds are suited to our planet. ADP.114-115

As to your question regarding the stars: Know that these brilliant stars are numberless and their existence is not devoid of wisdom both useful and important. Rather they are worlds, as is this world of ours. But they differ in their bodies by the difference of elements from this earthly body. They differ in formation. The beings existent upon these bodies are according to their formation. BSC#811 p.445 (Abdu'l-Baha, Tablet to Mrs. Brittingham)

This is the 'Coming of Age' of this planet. Just as America was discovered, so other planets may be discovered and in conjunction with them, we will become a member of a greater entity. (Pilgrim notes of Agnes Alexander, April 22 - May 12, 1937, p.4)

There is no record in history, or in the teachings, of a Prophet similar in station to Baha'u'llah, having lived 500,000 years ago. There will, however, be one similar to Him in greatness after the lapse of 500,000 years, but we cannot say definitely that His Revelation will be inter-planetary in scope. We can only say that such a thing may be possible. What Baha'u'llah means by His appearance in 'other worlds' He has not defined, as we could not visualize them in our present state, hence He was indefinite, and we cannot say whether He meant other planets or not... LG#1555 (24 Dec. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Abraham Lincoln's vision for the United States is comparable to Baha'u'llah's vision for the whole world. Now it is possible for a man to conceive of a greater destiny for the United States, a destiny incorporating her in the Federation of World States, encompassing the whole world. This is comparable to that Prophet who may appear after 500,000 years, and who would do the same thing for the planets. (Maxwell pilgrim notes, Jan-Mar 1937, p. 14)

After five hundred thousand years, it may sound preposterous but what he would describe as interplanetary unity may be possible - it is even probable that in three or four thousand years there may begin interplanetary communications with beings, not human beings. (Maxwell pilgrim notes, Jan.-Mar. 1937, pp. 41-42)

He was asked if interplanetary unity would be the goal of future Dispensations or if it might be achieved in the Dispensation of Baha'u'llah. He answered it would be a goal of the future but science is developing so fast that it was difficult to know how soon it would come, but it might at least soon be possible to observe life on other systems that are in various stages of development - some lower and some higher than ours. (Pilgrim notes of John and Valera Allen, 1954, p. 12)

There is not anything in the Cosmos, nor has been through all time from the first foundation of the universe; neither in the whole nor among the several things contained in it, that is not alive. (Corpus Hermeticum, Lib. xii:15b, p. 233, W. Scott trans.)

...all things are filled full of life, and, we may say, boiling with life. They all flow, in a way, from a single spring... Plotinus, Enn.VI.7.12

So why do I think we are not alone, when we have no evidence for life beyond Earth? Not for the fallacious popular reason: "the universe is so big there must be life out there somewhere." Simple statistics shows this argument to be bogus. If life is in fact a freak chemical event, it would be so unlikely to occur that it wouldn't happen twice among a trillion trillion trillion planets. Rather, I believe we are not alone because life seems to be a fundamental, and not merely an incidental, property of nature. It is built into the great cosmic scheme at the deepest level, and therefore likely to be pervasive. I make this sweeping claim because life has produced mind, and through mind, beings who do not merely observe the universe, but have come to understand it through science, mathematics and reasoning. This is hardly an insignificant embellishment on the cosmic drama, but a stunning and unexpected bonus. Somehow life is able to link up with the basic workings of the cosmos, resonating with the hidden mathematical order that makes it tick. And that's a quirk too far for me. (Paul Davies, http://www.edge.org/q2005/q05_9.html#davies)

Thou hast asked regarding the earth and the statements of the philosophers. In truth this matter hath until now never been fully disclosed. "This, verily, is the truth, and naught lieth beyond the truth but error." However, the scientists of this age, despite having received a portion of the effulgences of the light of Revelation and being thus more informed than their predecessors, have nevertheless to this day been unable to determine the number of the planets. Erelong it will be discovered and the previous estimate will be increased. This knowledge is an ocean without end. Every fixed star hath its own planets, and each of these planets is one of the worlds of God. Who is able to number the hosts of thy Lord, or the works of His creatures, upon them? (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.137)

Existence is life, and all things are alive and living. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.203; KHT2.100)

The Guardian spoke about America's primacy-- but that more suffering was needed. We are struggling to attain a world civilization and world unity. I asked: And will all this lead to interplanetary unity? "Of course," he said emphatically, "After that, interplanetary unity." I said: But we have an awful lot to do here so as to reach a unity!" "Of course - I was just about to say this!", said the Guardian. The human race will become fused into one, one color, etc. (Pilgrim notes of Virginia Orbison, 1956)

When He purposed to call the new creation into being, He sent forth the Manifest and Luminous Point from the horizon of His Will; it passed through every sign and manifested itself in every form until it reached the zenith, as bidden by God, the Lord of all men. TB.101

After chanting the divine verses that morning, and also rendering praise and thanksgiving to Baha'u'llah, the Master began to speak of the grandeur of this momentous age and perspicuous dispensation, as well as the manifold wonders of this unprecedented time. In the course of this discussion, He remarked, "It would now be fitting to prepare the means of travel to other planets!" (Badayi'u'l-Athar, vol. 2, p. 146)




...all imitate the First Principle as far as they are able by tending to everlastingness and generosity. How then could the most perfect, the first Good, remain in itself as if it grudged to give of itself or was impotent, when it is the productive power of all things? Plotinus, Enn.V.4.1

And if the term 'Differentiation' be also applied to the bounteous act of Emanation whereby the Divine Unity, brimming Itself with goodness in the excess of its Undifferenced Unity thus enters into Multiplicity... (Pseudo-Dionysius, in Rolt, p.71)

He was good, and in him that is good no envy ariseth ever concerning anything; and being devoid of envy He desired that all should be, as far as possible, like unto Himself. ["...being free from jealousy, desired that all things should be as like himself as they could be." -- Jowett trans.] (Plato, Timaeus 29E and Pelikan, "What Hath Athens to Do with Jerusalem?" pp.41 and 71)

But if you have the power to see with the eyes of the mind, then, my son, He will manifest himself to you. For the Lord manifests himself ungrudgingly through all the universe; and you can behold God's image with your eyes, and lay hold on it with your hands. (Corpus Hermeticum, Lib. v:2, p. 159, W. Scott trans.)
