



Question: "Will the day come when all mankind will be able to discern by sight?"         He said: "There will always be some. Only a special number will have this attainment. As Christ said, 'Many are called, but few are chosen.' [Mat 22:14] It will always be so. The transformation depends upon divine bounty. The mineral progresses in its own world. But from the mineral to the vegetable it progresses only by divine bounty. Of itself the transformation cannot take place. In the realm of men transformation is possible only through another person." SW v13#06 p143 (pilgrim notes of Anna Kunz)

Close association and loving service affects the hearts; and when the heart is affected, the the spirit can enter. It is the Holy Spirit that quickens, and the Friends must become channels for its diffusion. LG#834 (27 Jan. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Walk ye not without one to guide you on the way, and accept ye not the words of every guide. How numerous the guides who have gone astray and failed to discover the straight path! He alone is a guide who is free from the bondage of this world and whom nothing whatsoever can deter from speaking the truth. TU.4#11

The role of the individual is of unique importance in the work of the Cause. It is the individual who manifests the vitality of faith upon which the success of the teaching work and the development of the community depend. Baha'u'llah's command to each believer to teach His Faith confers an inescapable responsibility which cannot be transferred to, or assumed by, any institution of the Cause. The individual alone can exercise those capacities which include the ability to take initiative, to seize opportunities, to form friendships, to interact personally with others, to build relationships, to win the cooperation of others in common service to the Faith and society, and to convert into action the decisions made by consultative bodies. It is the individual's duty to "consider every avenue of approach which he might utilize in his personal attempts to capture the attention, maintain the interest, and deepen the faith, of those whom he seeks to bring into the fold of his Faith." Ridvan.1996, Ruhi7.2.27

Just one mature soul, with spiritual understanding and a profound knowledge of the Faith, can set a whole country ablaze -- so great is the power of the Cause to work through a pure and selfless channel. COC#513, Ruhi6.2.3 (6 Nov. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is the hope of 'Abdu'l-Baha that those youthful souls in the schoolroom of the deeper knowledge will be tended by one who traineth them to love. May they all, throughout the reaches of the spirit, learn well of the hidden mysteries; so well that in the Kingdom of the All-Glorious, each one of them, even as a nightingale endowed with speech, will cry out the secrets of the Heavenly Realm, and like unto a longing lover pour forth his sore need and utter want of the Beloved. SWAB#107 p134, Ruhi5.2.19

The International Teaching Centre has concluded that the Baha'i institutions in ... seem to have been placing too much reliance on large, expensive projects, involving a great deal of successful public relations and proclamation. These are, in their own way, very useful activities, but it must be realized that they cannot be expected to produce large numbers of new believers. The key to the conversion of people to the Faith is the action of the individual Baha'i conveying the spark of faith to individual seekers, answering their questions and deepening their understanding of the teachings. (9 Feb. 1989 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, in the compilation on Promoting Entry by Troops)

The Teaching of the Faith is dependent on the individual and his effort. When the individual arises with enthusiasm, with full dedication and consecration, and allows nothing to deter him; then results will be achieved.... COC#2004 (17 Dec. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

We have no priests, therefore the service once rendered by priests to their religions is the service every single Baha'i is expected to render individually to his religion. He must be the one who enlightens new souls, confirms them, heals the wounded and the weary upon the road of life, and gives them to quaff from the chalice of everlasting life the knowledge of the Manifestation of God in His Day. COC#2009 (5 Jul. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Just one mature soul, with spiritual understanding and a profound knowledge of the Faith, can set a whole country ablaze -- so great is the power of the Cause to work through a pure and selfless channel. COC#513, Ruhi6.2.3 (6 Nov. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

"Be not concerned," He admonishes them, "with the smallness of your numbers, neither be oppressed by the multitude of an unbelieving world... Exert yourselves; your mission is unspeakably glorious. Should success crown your enterprise, America will assuredly evolve into a center from which waves of spiritual power will emanate, and the throne of the Kingdom of God will, in the plenitude of its majesty and glory, be firmly established." WOB.077-078

O ye believers of God! Be not concerned with the smallness of your numbers, neither be oppressed by the multitude of an unbelieving world. Five grains of wheat will be endued with heavenly blessing, whereas a thousand tons of tares will yield no results or effect. One fruitful tree will be conducive to the life of society, whereas a thousand forests of wild trees offer no fruits. The plain is covered with pebbles, but precious stones are rare. One pearl is better than a thousand wildernesses of sand, especially this pearl of great price, which is endowed with divine blessing. Erelong thousands of other pearls will be born from it. When that pearl associates and becomes the intimate of the pebbles, they also all change into pearls. TDP.095

It is better to have one Baha'i who understands the Teachings and is wholeheartedly convinced of their truth, than a number of Baha'is, who are not well aware of the Cause, and deep-rooted in the Covenant. COC#1988 (22 Jan. 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
