



The transcendent Word of God is sanctified beyond time. The past, the present, and the future are all equal in relation to God. Yesterday, today, and tomorrow do not exist in the sun. ...the reality of Christ, Who is the Word of God, undoubtedly precedes all created things in essence, in attributes, and in distinction. Before appearing in human form, the Word of God was in a state of utmost sanctity and glory, abiding in perfect beauty and splendour in the height of its majesty. SAQ#28.3-4 (was SAQ.116-117)

By "the tree of life" is meant the highest degree of the world of existence, that is, the station of the Word of God and His universal Manifestation. That station was indeed well guarded, until it appeared and shone forth in the supreme revelation of His universal Manifestation. SAQ#30.7 (was SAQ.124)

Now, the reality of prophethood, which is the Word of God and the state of perfect divine manifestation, has neither beginning nor end, but its radiance varies like that of the sun. SAQ#38.7 (was SAQ.152)

Salutations, blessings, and welcome to that Universal Reality, that Perfect Word, that Manifest Book, that Splendour which hath dawned in the highest heaven, that Guide of all nations, that Light of the world - the billowing ocean of Whose abounding grace hath flooded all creation... SWAB#019 p038-039

This is His Most Great Name, His Most Exalted Word, and the Dayspring of His Most Excellent Titles, if ye could understand. KA#143

I beseech Thee, by Thine own Self and by Him Whom Thou hast appointed as the Manifestation of Thine own Being and Thy discriminating Word unto all that are in heaven and on earth... PM#023 p026

Recognize then the station of thy Son Who is none other than the mighty Word of God. SWB.052-053

In the Gospel it is said: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God." It follows then that Christ did not attain His Messianic station and His perfections at the moment of His baptism... SAQ#38.9 (was SAQ.153)

In the supernatural kingdom of the Chosen Ones of God, the bearers of spiritual development, there are three stages in the unification of their spirit with the absolute spirit, the breath of life of God. The highest stage represents the prophet, the purest manifestation of the logos. The prophet is an earthly personality for a specific time, full of divine wisdom and of all the pervasive powers of the logos; the prophet recognizes himself as a part of the absolute and is already in his earthly existence sublime over space and time. In the prophet, the logos has traversed the step-ladder of self-development, he returns from his emanation from the breath of God to the origin, that is to the divine and absolute. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 6)

And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth. John 1:14

The letters (alphabet) and the numbers (arithmetic) have a mystic correspondence with transcendent reality. The letters and numbers are the elements (stoicheia) of the spiritual and the material worlds. As words these elements are the source of all things intellectual, as letters they represent the source of matter. The plurality (27 to 28) of the letters can be traced back to the point (nuqtih), in the case of the numbers, to the one. The point of the world of letters and the one of the world of numbers thus become a universal principle which conditions, penetrates and limits the world of appearances. Every prophet, from Adam to Baha'u'llah, has shown Himself to be the Logos, the Demiurge, the Manifestation, the Emanation of the All-Highest Godhead; the Prophet proves His God-given creative power by producing a book, the letters and numerical values of which represent a counterplay (reflection) of transcendent reality. (Fallscheer notes, pp. 19-20; 7 Feb. 1910)

Man is the sum of creation, and the Perfect Man is the expression of the complete thought of the Creator - the Word of God. PT#15:2 p051




Our meaning is that the universal Educator must be at once a material, a human, and a spiritual educator, and, soaring above the world of nature, must be possessed of another power, so that He may assume the station of a divine teacher. Were He not to wield such a celestial power, He would not be able to educate, for He would be imperfect Himself. How then could He foster perfection? SAQ#3.15 (was SAQ.011)

I will not mention the miracles of Baha'u'llah, for the hearer might say that these are merely traditions which may or may not be true. Such, too, is the case with the Gospel, where the accounts of the miracles of Christ come down to us from the Apostles and not from other observers, and are denied by the Jews. Were I nonetheless to mention the supernatural feats of Baha'u'llah, they are numerous and unequivocally acknowledged in the East, even by some of the non-believers. But these accounts cannot be a decisive proof and testimony for all, since the hearer might say that they are not factually true, as the followers of other denominations also recount miracles from their leaders. SAQ#10.3 (was SAQ.037)

The Manifestations of God are sources of miraculous deeds and marvellous signs. Any difficult or impossible matter is to Them possible and permitted. For They show forth extraordinary feats through an extraordinary power, and They influence the world of nature through a power that transcends nature. From each one of Them, marvellous things have appeared. But in the Sacred Scriptures a special terminology is used, and in the sight of the Manifestations of God these marvels and miracles are of no importance, so much so that They do not even wish them to be mentioned. SAQ#22.2-3 (was SAQ.100)

But the hidden mysteries of the days to come were revealed to the Prophets, who thus became acquainted with future events and who proclaimed them in turn. This knowledge and proclamation were not the cause of the occurrence of these events.... The Prophets of God were informed through divine revelation that certain events would come to pass. SAQ#35.3-5 (was SAQ.138)

Thou knowest full well that We perused not the books which men possess and We acquired not the learning current amongst them, and yet whenever We desire to quote the sayings of the learned and of the wise, presently there will appear before the face of thy Lord in the form of a tablet all that which hath appeared in the world and is revealed in the Holy Books and Scriptures. Thus do We set down in writing that which the eye perceiveth. Verily His knowledge encompasseth the earth and the heavens. TB.149

No one entered his presence without becoming awe-stricken by his might. The learned men who approached him were astounded at his knowledge, yet he never attended school nor learned of men. His friends and his family all testify to this, yet his teachings are the soul of this age. The sun emanates from itself and does not draw its light from other sources. The divine teachers have the innate light; they have knowledge and understanding of all things in the universe; the rest of the world receives its light from them and through them the arts and sciences are revived in each age. ADP.053, Ruhi4.3.2

It is in Our power, should We wish it, to enable a speck of floating dust to generate, in less than the twinkling of an eye, suns of infinite, of unimaginable splendour, to cause a dewdrop to develop into vast and numberless oceans, to infuse into every letter such a force as to empower it to unfold all the Knowledge of past and future ages. WOB.107 (Baha'u'llah)

The penetration of the preexistent Divine Light through the substance of His soul makes the Prophet the Lord of His epoch and confers upon Him extraordinary powers which go far beyond the nature of ordinary man.... The Divine Light and the Heavenly Fire at the same time confer true perception, a secret knowledge, a sure inspiration, which extend not only to the eternal verities of the religion but also to all worldly, past, contemporary and future occurrences. (Fallscheer notes, p. 26)

...those who entirely deny the appearance of any miracle attributed to the Prophets should not do so, for human reason is not a sufficient standard.... all phenomea, as things endowed with power, are also miracles of God... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Sahifiy-i-Shattiyyih, JBS9:3 pp.57-58)

Considering that a century ago, nobody knew the nature of matter, and couldn't split any kind of atom, it should not surprise the scientist that 'Abdu'l-Baha states that copper can be transmuted into gold. There may come a time, for all we know, when the mass of many atoms can be changed by scientists....The same holds true of the statement of Baha'u'llah in the Iqan, regarding transmutation of copper into gold after seventy years, under certain conditions. We as Baha'is must assume that, as He had access to all knowledge, He was referring to a definite physical condition which theoretically might exist. LG#1580 (14 Mar. 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...spiritual disclosures are of two kinds. One is the visions of the Prophets and the spiritual disclosures of the chosen ones of God. The visions of the Prophets are not dreams but true spiritual disclosures. Thus when they say, "I saw someone in such a form, and I spoke such words, and he gave such a reply", this vision takes place in a state of wakefulness and not in the realm of sleep. It is a spiritual discovery that is expressed in the form of a vision. SAQ#71.4 (was SAQ.251)

Every single letter proceeding from Our mouth is endowed with such regenerative power as to enable it to bring into existence a new creation--a creation the magnitude of which is inscrutable to all save God. WOB.107 (Baha'u'llah)

We are possessed of such power which, if brought to light, will transmute the most deadly of poisons into a panacea of unfailing efficacy. WOB.107 (Baha'u'llah)

"Within the throat of this Youth," is yet another astounding statement, "there lie prisoned accents which, if revealed to mankind to an extent smaller than a needle's eye, would suffice to cause every mountain to crumble, the leaves of the trees to be discolored and their fruits to fall; would compel every head to bow down in worship and every face to turn in adoration towards this omnipotent Ruler Who, at sundry times and in diverse manners, appeareth as a devouring flame, as a billowing ocean, as a radiant light, as the tree which, rooted in the soil of holiness, lifteth its branches and spreadeth out its limbs as far as and beyond the throne of deathless glory." WOB.108-109 (Baha'u'llah)

"Within the treasury of Our Wisdom there lies unrevealed a knowledge, one word of which, if we chose to divulge it to mankind, would cause every human being to recognize the Manifestation of God and to acknowledge His omniscience, would enable every one to discover the secrets of all the sciences, and to attain so high a station as to find himself wholly independent of all past and future learning. Other knowledges We do as well possess, not a single letter of which We can disclose, nor do We find humanity able to hear even the barest reference to their meaning. Thus have We informed you of the knowledge of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise." WOB.109 (Baha'u'llah)

Should the Ancient Beauty be unveiled in the fullness of His glory mortal eyes would be blinded by the dazzling intensity of His revelation. WOB.116 (Baha'u'llah)

God hath indeed made Muhammad and His successors, may the blessings of God rest upon them, the wellsprings of His knowledge, and hath related them unto Himself. The greatness of their station and the excellence of their rank is like that of the Kaaba in the Holy Mosque in Mecca. Nothing God hath willed in the kingdom of names and attributes escapeth their knowledge. That which He revealed in the Book: "Had I knowledge of the Unseen, I would have acquired much good," and that which was sent down in the traditions concerning the various stages of the perception of mysteries, is nothing but a manifestation of their servitude and their powerlessness before all created things, or it is due to asserting the loftiness of their majesty through negation in the station of union. (The Bab, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Valiy-i-Shushtar, INBA 14:417 ff., 40:137 ff., 53:34 ff., 67:195 ff., translation by Keven Brown)

The Holy Manifestations of God are the source of miracles and wonderful signs. To them even the impossible things are possible, and from them most wonderful things appear, but they have an especial mode of expression. To them miracles are of no importance. They do not mention them. If miracles were proofs, it would be for those present, not for those who are absent.... The meaning is not that the Manifestations are not able to perform miracles -- for they are able -- but the meaning is that to them the inward sight, the heavenly hearing, the eternal life, is that which is acceptable; and when it is mentioned in the Holy Books, this is the true meaning. (Pilgrim notes of Mary Lucas, 1905)
