



...in all Dispensations the law of prayer hath constituted a fundamental element of the Revelation of all the Prophets of God - a law the form and the manner of which hath been adapted to the varying requirements of every age. ...in the heaven of the religion of God two shining orbs have been ordained - fasting and prayer... KI#039 p040

At the dawn of every day he should commune with God, and with all his soul persevere in the quest of his Beloved. KI#214 p194, GWB#125 p265

This is worship: to serve mankind and to minister to the needs of the people. Service is prayer. PT#55:1 p177

Recite ye the verses of God every morn and eventide. Whoso faileth to recite them hath not been faithful to the Covenant of God and His Testament.... were a man to read a single verse with joy and radiance it would be better for him than to read with lassitude all the Holy Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Read ye the sacred verses in such measure that ye be not overcome by languor and despondency. Lay not upon your souls that which will weary them and weigh them down, but rather what will lighten and uplift them, so that they may soar on the wings of the Divine verses towards the Dawning-place of His manifest signs; this will draw you nearer to God, did ye but comprehend. KA#149, Ruhi1.2.8

Reveal then Thyself, O Lord, by Thy merciful utterance and the mystery of Thy divine being, that the holy ecstasy of prayer may fill our souls - a prayer that shall rise above words and letters and transcend the murmur of syllables and sounds - that all things may be merged into nothingness before the revelation of Thy splendor. BP.071 (Abdu'l-Baha)

It behooveth the servant to pray and to seek assistance from God, and to supplicate and implore His aid. Such becometh the rank of servitude, and the Lord will decree whatsoever He desireth, in accordance with His consummate wisdom. (Abdu'l-Baha, Prayer, Meditation, and the Devotional Attitude, #25, p. 9)

Intone, O My servant, the verses of God that have been received by thee, as intoned by them who have drawn nigh unto Him, that the sweetness of thy melody may kindle thine own soul, and attract the hearts of all men. Whoso reciteth, in the privacy of his chamber, the verses revealed by God, the scattering angels of the Almighty shall scatter abroad the fragrance of the words uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the heart of every righteous man to throb. Though he may, at first, remain unaware of its effect, yet the virtue of the grace vouchsafed unto him must needs sooner or later exercise its influence upon his soul. GWB#136 p295, Ruhi1.2.4, Ruhi3a.L5 (1st sentence)

Spirit has influence; prayer has spiritual effect. Therefore, we pray, O God! Heal this sick one! Perchance God will answer. Does it matter who prays? God will answer the prayer of every servant if that prayer is urgent. His mercy is vast, illimitable. He answers the prayers of all His servants. He answers the prayer of this plant. The plant prays potentially, 'O God! Send me rain!' God answers the prayer, and the plant grows. God will answer anyone. He answers prayers potentially. PUP.246, Ruhi1.2.7

The core of religious faith is that mystical feeling which unites man with God. This state of spiritual communion can be brought about and maintained by means of meditation and prayer.... It is not sufficient for a believer to merely accept and observe the teachings. He should, in addition, cultivate the sense of spirituality, which he can acquire chiefly by means of prayer. The Baha'i Faith, like all other Divine Religions, is thus fundamentally mystic in character.... prayer is absolutely indispensable to their inner spiritual development, and this, as already stated, is the very foundation and purpose of the religion of God. LG#1845 (8 Dec. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The highest and most elevating state is the state of prayer. Prayer is communion with God. Its efficacy is conditional upon the freedom of the heart from extraneous suggestions and mundane thoughts. The worshipper must pray with a detached spirit, unconditional surrender of the will, concentrated attention and a magnetic spiritual passion. His innermost being must be stirred with the ethereal breeze of sanctification. If the mirror of his life is polished from the dross of all desires, the heavenly pictures and star-like images of the Kingdom of God will become reflected therein. SW v08#04 p045 (pilgrim notes from Haifa of 'Abdu'l-Baha)

Know thou, verily it is becoming in a weak one to supplicate to the Strong One, and it behooveth a seeker of bounty to beseech the Glorious Bountiful One. When one supplicates to his Lord, turns to Him and seeks bounty from His Ocean, this supplication brings light to his heart, illumination to his sight, life to his soul and exaltation to his being.... By these attractions one's ability and capacity increase. When the vessel is widened the water increaseth and when the thirst grows the bounty of the cloud becomes agreeable to the taste of man. This is the mystery of supplication and the wisdom of stating one's wants. ('Abdu'l-Baha, from a tablet to an American believer, translated by `Ali Kuli Khan, Oct. 1908, BNE.092-093)

...make of my prayer a fire that will burn away the veils which have shut me out from Thy beauty, and a light that will lead me unto the ocean of Thy Presence.... Make my prayer, O my Lord, a fountain of living waters whereby I may live as long as Thy sovereignty endureth... PM#183 p317-318, Ruhi1.2.2 (first sentence), Ruhi1.2.6 (last sentence)

Whensoever the light of the revelation of the King of Oneness settleth upon the throne of the heart and soul, His radiance becometh visible in every limb and member. At that time, the mystery of the famed tradition gleameth out of the darkness: "A servant is drawn unto Me in prayer until I answer him, and when I have answered him, I become the ear wherewith he heareth..." For thus the Master of the house hath appeared within His home, and all the pillars of the dwelling are ashine with His light. CDB#2.44 (was SV.22)

They who recite the verses of the All-Merciful in the most melodious of tones will perceive in them that with which the sovereignty of earth and heaven can never be compared. From them they will inhale the divine fragrance of My worlds--worlds which today none can discern save those who have been endowed with vision (basar) through this sublime, this beauteous Revelation. Say: These verses draw hearts that are pure unto those spiritual worlds that can neither be expressed in words nor intimated by allusion. Blessed be those who hearken. KA#116

There is nothing sweeter in the word of existence than prayer. Man must live in a state of prayer. The most blessed condition is the condition of prayer and supplication. Prayer is conversation with God. The greatest attainment or the sweetest state is none other than conversation with God. It creates spirituality, creates mindfulness and celestial feelings, begets new attractions of the Kingdom and engenders the susceptibilities of the higher intelligence. The highest attribute given to his holiness Moses is the following verse: "God carried along a conversation with Moses."     What is prayer? It is conversation with God. While man prays he sees himself in the presence of God. If he concentrates his attention he will surely at the time of prayer realize that he is conversing with God. Often at night I do not sleep, and the thoughts of this world weigh heavily on my mind. I toss uneasily in my bed. Then in the darkness of the night I get up and pray and converse with God. It is most sweet and uplifting.     Prayer and supplication are so effective that they inspire one's heart for the whole day with high ideals and supreme sanctity and calmness. One's heart must be sensitive to the music of prayer. He must feel the effect of prayer. He must not be like an organ from which softest notes stream forth without having consciousness of sensation in itself. SW v08#04 p041 (From the Diary of Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, 15 Mar. 1914), Ruhi1.2.3 (1st paragraph)

The state of prayer is the best of conditions, for man is then associating with God. Prayer verily bestoweth life, particularly when offered in private and at times, such as midnight, when freed from daily cares. SWAB#172 p202

If one friend loves another, is it not natural that he should wish to say so? Though he knows that that friend is aware of his love, does he still not wish to tell him of it? ...It is true that God knows the wishes of all hearts; but the impulse to pray is a natural one, springing from man's love to God.... Prayer need not be in words, but rather in thought and action. But if this love and this desire are lacking, it is useless to try to force them. Words without love mean nothing. If a person talks to you as an unpleasant duty, finding neither love nor enjoyment in the meeting, do you wish to converse with him? (BNE.094, COC#1755, Ruhi1.2.5, article in Fortnightly Review, Jul.-Dec.1911, p. 784 by Miss E. S. Stevens)

The believers, as we all know, should endeavour to set such an example in their personal lives and conduct that others will feel impelled to embrace a Faith which reforms human character. However, unfortunately, not everyone achieves easily and rapidly the victory over self. What every believer, new or old, should realize is that the Cause has the spiritual power to re-create us if we make the effort to let that power influence us, and the greatest help in this respect is prayer. We must supplicate Baha'u'llah to assist us to overcome the failings in our own characters, and also exert our own will-power in mastering ourselves. (27 Jan. 1945 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, "Excellence in All Things" #46)

To pray is not to read Psalms. To pray is to trust in God, and to be submissive in all things to Him. Be submissive, then things will change for you. Put your family in God's hands. Love God's will. Strong ships are not conquered by the sea, -- they ride the waves. Now be a strong ship, not a battered one! SW v08 p.038

He told Florence that the turning toward God in thought, and a prayer-like appeal from the heart, is prayer, and is heard of God. Words are not necessary, the heart is enough. (Pilgrim notes of Florence Khan, Jun. 1906) SUR.241

Thou hast asked about material means and prayer. Prayer is like the spirit and material means are like the human hand. The spirit operateth through the instrumentality of the hand. Although the one true God is the All-Provider, it is the earth which is the means to supply sustenance. "The heaven hath sustenance for you" but when sustenance is decreed it becometh available, whatever the means may be. When man refuseth to use material means, he is like a thirsty one who seeketh to quench his thirst through means other than water or other liquids. The Almighty Lord is the provider of water, and its maker, and hath decreed that it be used to quench man's thirst, but its use is dependent upon His Will. If it should not be in conformity with His Will, man is afflicted with a thirst which the oceans cannot quench. COC#1742 (From a Tablet by Abdu'l-Baha)

Man becomes like a stone unless he continually supplicates to God. The heart of man is like a mirror which is covered with dust and to cleanse it one must continually pray to God that it may become clean. The act of supplication is the polish which erases all worldly desires. The delight of supplicating and entreating before God cuts one's heart from the world. When the taste of man is nourished by honey he never likes to taste any other sweetmeat. Therefore, prayer is a key by which the doors of the kingdom are opened. There are many subjects which are difficult for man to solve. But during prayer and supplication they are unveiled and there is nothing that man cannot find out. SW v08#04 p042-043 (words of Abdu'l-Baha to Alma Albertson, 1900)

Recite what is sent of the Book by inspiration to thee, and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of God is the greatest thing in life without doubt. Qur'an 29:45




Teaching is the source of Divine Confirmation. It is not sufficient to pray diligently for guidance, but this prayer must be followed by meditation as to the best methods of action and then action itself. Even if the action should not immediately produce results, or perhaps not be entirely correct, that does not make so much difference, because prayers can only be answered through action and if someone's action is wrong, God can use that method of showing that pathway which is right... LG#1508 (22 Aug. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The true basis of prayer is for the individual to hold himself as a reed, through which the Holy Spirit may flow. His will should be completely submissive to the Will of God. When this is done, then the Hosts of the Unseen Kingdom have an opportunity to assist and direct the individual. Thus it may be seen that sometimes the answer is not what is expected by the individual, but what is best for the Cause of God. The Guardian has so often pointed out that there are three elements of prayer -- meditation, supplication and action. It is most important that an individual act, because it is only while the individual is acting that a prayer can be answered. (31 Dec. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...use these five steps if we have a problem of any kind for which we desire a solution, or wish help. Pray and meditate about it. Use the prayers of the Manifestations, as they have the greatest power. Learn to remain in the silence of contemplation for a few moments. During this deepest communion take the next step. Arrive at a decision and hold to this. This decision is usually born in a flash at the close or during the contemplation. It may seem almost impossible of accomplishment, but if it seems to be an answer to prayer or a way of solving the problem, then immediately take the next step. Have determination to carry the decision through. Many fail here. The decision, budding into determination, is blighted and instead becomes a wish or a vague longing. When determination is born, immediately take the next step. Have faith and confidence, that the Power of the Holy Spirit will flow through you, the right way will appear, the door will open, the right message, the right principle or the right book will be given to you. Have confidence, and the right thing will come to meet your need. Then as you rise from prayer take immediately the fifth step. Act as though it had all been answered. Then act with tireless, ceaseless energy. And, as you act, you yourself will become a magnet which will attract more power to your being, until you become an unobstructed channel for the Divine Power to flow through you. M63-86 214.5 (pilgrim notes of Ruth Moffett)

Therefore strive that your actions day by day may be beautiful prayers. PT#26:7 p081

Suppose a man has an abscess that is suppurating. Unless we do something for that abscess, it may go and become gangrened; it may become diseased.... If we say prayers over that abscess -- the prayer for that is the knife -- the surgeon's knife -- it is the lance. We should lance it out. (Words to Dr. Woodson Allen, 21 Oct. 1912, "My Memories of Abdu'l-Baha", p. 70)

A day's work done in the spirit of service is in itself an act of worship. Such work is a prayer unto God. ("The Chosen Highway", p.152)
