



Man, the noblest and most perfect of all created things, excelleth them all in the intensity of this revelation, and is a fuller expression of its glory. And of all men, the most accomplished, the most distinguished and the most excellent are the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth. Nay, all else besides these Manifestations, live by the operation of their Will, and move and have their being through the outpourings of their grace. KI#109 p103, GWB#090 p179

All else save Him are created by His command, and move and have their being through His law. He is the Revealer of the divine mysteries, and the Expounder of the hidden and ancient wisdom. KI#274 p243

Assuredly the visible sun is but a sign of the splendour of that Day-star of Truth, that Sun Which can never have a peer, likeness, or rival. Through Him all things live, move, and have their being. Through His grace they are made manifest, and unto Him they all return. From Him all things have sprung, and unto the treasuries of His revelation they all have repaired. From Him all created things did proceed, and to the depositories of His law they did revert. KI#031 p034

We regard man as the chief member because, among all created things, he encompasses all the perfections of existence. Now, what we mean by "man" is the complete human being, the foremost person in the world, who is the sum of all spiritual and material perfections, and who is like the sun among all created things. Imagine, then, a time when the sun did not exist as such, in other words, when the sun was merely another celestial body. Undoubtedly, at such a time the relationships between existing things would have been disrupted. SAQ#46.4-5 (was SAQ.178)

In every age and cycle He hath, through the splendorous light shed by the Manifestations of His wondrous Essence, recreated all things... GWB#026 p062

In truth I have created Thee through Thyself, then at My Own behest I have fashioned all things through the creative power of Thy Word. We are All-Powerful.  I have appointed Thee to be the Beginning and the End, the Seen and the Hidden.  SWB.159

The Manifestation of God and the sea of names and attributes which reflect God are always and only His creations and not His Essence.... Creation is through the Manifestation of God, which is the Primal Will, which is the Word of God. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:6)

Consider the hour at which the Supreme Manifestation of God revealeth Himself unto man. Ere that hour cometh, the Ancient Being, Who is still unknown of men and hath not as yet given utterance to the Word of God, is Himself the All-Knower in a world devoid of any man that hath known Him. He is indeed the Creator without a creation. GWB#078 p151

I testify ... that He Who hath been manifested is the Hidden Mystery, the Treasured Symbol, through Whom the letters B and E (Be) have been joined and knit together. I testify that it is He Whose name hath been set down by the Pen of the Most High, and Who hath been mentioned in the Books of God, the Lord of the Throne on high and of earth below. PM#183 p321

none of you who have been born in the Bayan shall gain the fruit of your beginning unless ye return unto Him Whom God shall make manifest.  He it is Who caused your beginning to proceed from God, and your return to be unto Him, did ye but know. SWB.148

I am the origin of all creation. Everything proceeds from me. The wise who know this perfectly worship me with great faith and devotion. O Arjun, I am seated in the heart of all living entities. I am the beginning, middle, and end of all beings. I am the generating seed of all living beings, O Arjun. No creature moving or non-moving can exist without me. (Krishna, Bhagavad Gita, Ch. 10)
