



The transcendent Word of God is sanctified beyond time. The past, the present, and the future are all equal in relation to God. Yesterday, today, and tomorrow do not exist in the sun. ...the reality of Christ, Who is the Word of God, undoubtedly precedes all created things in essence, in attributes, and in distinction. Before appearing in human form, the Word of God was in a state of utmost sanctity and glory, abiding in perfect beauty and splendour in the height of its majesty. SAQ#28.3-4 (was SAQ.116-117)

Now, the reality of prophethood, which is the Word of God and the state of perfect divine manifestation, has neither beginning nor end, but its radiance varies like that of the sun. SAQ#38.7 (was SAQ.152)

The third station is that of divine manifestation and heavenly splendour, which is the Word of God, the everlasting Grace, and the Holy Spirit. This station has neither beginning nor end... SAQ#38.4 (was SAQ.152)

And I praise and glorify that primal Sea which hath branched out from the ocean of the unseen Essence, and that primal Morn which hath broken forth upon the horizon of Singleness, and that primal Sun which hath risen in the heaven of everlasting splendour, and that primal Fire which was kindled from the Lamp of eternity within the Niche of oneness: He Who is called "Ahmad" in the kingdom of the exalted ones... CDB#2.02 (was SV.01)

Every one who is endowed with a clear insight will behold that They (the Manifestations) were created before the creation of heaven and earth, and that this has ever been the Throne of the Merciful, and will forever be as it was; that there is no relation, connection, similarity or reference between that Throne and all else save it, and that all things testify with their inmost tongue; 'Verily, these (bodies) are the Thrones of the Merciful One.' BSC#387 p.207 (Baha'u'llah)

The body of the Manifestation and His Soul have a beginning, because this part of them is human. But the spark of God in Them partakes of the preexistence of God. (Maxwell pilgrim notes, Jan-Mar 1937, p. 5)

The Prophets, unlike us, are pre-existent. The soul of Christ existed in the spiritual world before His birth in this world. We cannot imagine what that world is like, so words are inadequate to picture His state of being. LG#1699, HE.071 (9 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The second station is that of the rational soul, which is the human reality. This also has a beginning, and the Manifestations of God share it in common with all humanity. SAQ#38.3
