



...the highest and most excelling grace bestowed upon men is the grace of 'attaining unto the Presence of God' and of His recognition, which has been promised unto all people. This is the utmost degree of grace vouchsafed unto man by the All-Bountiful, the Ancient of Days, and the fullness of His absolute bounty upon His creatures. KI#148 p138

...remember that all things have their consummation in belief in Him, in attainment unto His day, and in the realization of His divine presence. KI#101 p092

...reunion with the One. If you grasp it by taking away being from it, you will be filled with wonder. And, throwing yourself upon it and coming to rest within it, understand it more and more intimately, knowing it by intuition and seeing its greatness by the things which exist after it and through it. Plotinus, Enn.III.8.10

The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will ever be, to enable him to know ('irfan) his Creator and to attain His Presence. To this most excellent aim, this supreme objective, all the heavenly Books and the divinely-revealed and weighty Scriptures unequivocally bear witness. GWB#029 p070, Ruhi1.3.5, Ruhi5.1.11

The meaning of the short prayer... is simply that Baha'u'llah has put into one brief sentence the very essence of life, which is that we come from one Father, and pass, on the road of life, through tests and trials and experiences, so that our souls may grow; and that the reason for our existence is to learn to know and understand our Creator. As we do this, we will increase our love for Him and will worship Him. (5 Oct. 1953 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in "Interpretation and the Guardianship")

And when the sanctified souls rend asunder the veils of all the worlds and the wrappings of all the degrees and attain the stage of meeting the divine Presence ... then the purpose of creation, which is the recognition of the one true God, will become manifest. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:050)

The purpose underlying their revelation hath been to educate all men, that they may, at the hour of death, ascend, in the utmost purity and sanctity and with absolute detachment, to the throne of the Most High. GWB#081 p157

That life, however, which is mentioned in the Books of the Prophets and the Chosen Ones of God is the life of knowledge; that is to say, the servant's recognition of the sign of the splendours wherewith He Who is the Source of all splendour hath Himself invested him, and his certitude of attaining unto the presence of God through the Manifestations of His Cause. This is that blessed and everlasting life that perisheth not: whosoever is quickened thereby shall never die, but will endure as long as His Lord and Creator will endure. GDM#064 p047-048

The knowledge of Him, Who is the Origin of all things, and attainment unto Him, are impossible save through knowledge of, and attainment unto, these luminous Beings who proceed from the Sun of Truth. By attaining, therefore, to the presence of these holy Luminaries, the "Presence of God" Himself is attained. KI#151 p142, Ruhi2.3.5

O believer in God! The essence of attainment to the divine presence is faith in the divine verses... For physical proximity hath no effect; nay, true nearness is identical to faith (iman) and certitude (iqan); and purity of motive and assurance are identical to true nearness. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA9:13)
