



No sign can indicate His presence or His absence; inasmuch as by a word of His command all that are in heaven and on earth have come to exist, and by His wish, which is the Primal Will itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being, the world of the visible. KI#104 p098

We, of the Orient, distinguish between the wholly transcendent Primal Deity, in the Christian sense God the Father, and the Logos (Gospel of St. John), in the Christian sense God the Son, also called Demiurge (in the sense of the Greek philosophers), also called the Primal Will by His Holiness the Bab and designated by the Sufis by the name of tawhid = oneness. (Fallscheer notes, p. 20)

...the gnostics maintain the existence of only two worlds, the world of God and the world of the creature. The prophets, however, maintained the existence of three worlds: the world of God, the world of the Will or the Word, and the world of created things. The Prophets, therefore, maintained that a knowledge of God is impossible.... There is, therefore, only one way to God and that is through the realization of His Manifestation or Prophet in that age. Christ called the world of the Prophets the Word in the verse of "the Word became flesh" while 'Abdu'l-Baha calls it the Will. Anyhow it is only through these that we can know God. These manifest the divine attributes and therefore by knowing them we can know God. The mystic path that the traveller should follow is therefore to the Prophet. LG#1724, LG#1725 (29 Nov. 1929 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

I implore Thee, by this very word that hath shone forth above the horizon of Thy Will, to enable me to drink deep of the living waters through which Thou hast vivified the hearts of Thy chosen ones... PM#004 p006

And when the appointed time was fulfilled and the Hour had struck, the Word shone forth above the horizon of the Will of God. TB.011

The speech of God is the very being of the Primal Will which is the Word of God. But this speech is a creation of God and not of His Essence. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 2:9)

...the Word of God - exalted be His glory - is higher and far superior to that which the senses can perceive, for it is sanctified from any property or substance. It transcendeth the limitations of known elements and is exalted above all the essential and recognized substances. It became manifest without any syllable or sound and is none but the Command of God which pervadeth all created things. It hath never been withheld from the world of being. It is God's all-pervasive grace (fayd), from which all grace doth emanate. It is an entity far removed above all that hath been and shall be. TB.140-141, Ruhi6.1.21

I testify that no sooner had the First Word proceeded, through the potency of Thy will and purpose, out of His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips than the whole creation was revolutionized, and all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred to the depths. Through that Word the realities of all things were shaken, were divided, separated, scattered, combined and reunited, disclosing, in both the contingent world and the heavenly kingdom (`alamu'l-Mulk wa'l-Malakut), entities of a new creation, and revealing, in the unseen realms (`alamu'l-Jabarut ... wa `alamu'l­Lahut), the signs and tokens of Thy unity and oneness (Wahidiyih ... wa Ahadiyih). PM#178 p295-296

These divine verses are the Word of the Will Himself, which is naught but the Word of God. For the Essence of Eternity hath always been, and will forever continue to be, beyond any change. But speaking the Word pertaineth to the station of divine creation and generation. Inasmuch as naught is seen in the Will but God, therefore this Word is attributed unto God, for none but God is capable of producing its like. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.048)




The Zuhurs (Manifestations) are Manifestations of the Primal Will. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:9, 4:2; cf. 3:13)

The Manifestation of God is the Primal Will; He is the first one to obey God when He speaks... (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 2:8)

...the First Remembrance, which is the Primal Will of God, may be likened unto the sun. God hath created Him through the potency of His might, and He hath, from the beginning that hath no beginning, caused Him to be manifested in every Dispensation through the compelling power of His behest, and God will, to the end that knoweth no end, continue to manifest Him according to the good-pleasure of His invincible Purpose. And know thou that He indeed resembleth the sun. Were the risings of the sun to continue till the end that hath no end, yet there hath not been nor ever will be more than one sun.... It is this Primal Will which appeareth resplendent in every Prophet and speaketh forth in every revealed Book. It knoweth no beginning, inasmuch as the First deriveth its firstness from It; and knoweth no end, for the Last oweth its lastness unto It. In the time of the First Manifestation the Primal Will appeared in Adam; in the day of Noah It became known in Noah... Hence the inner meaning of the words uttered by the Apostle of God, 'I am all the Prophets', inasmuch as what shineth resplendent in each one of Them hath been and will ever remain one and the same sun.... SWB.126; GOH.245, GOH.267

...the Reality of Muhammad is not exactly the permanent archetypes themselves. Rather, it is the unifying principle of all archetypes, the active principle on which depends the very existence of the archetypes. Considered from the side of the Absolute, the Reality of Muhammad is the creative activity itself of the Absolute, or God 'conceived as the self-revealing Principle of the universe'. It is the Absolute in the first stage of its eternal self-manifestation, i.e., the Absolute as the universal Consciousness.... Thus the Prophet Muhammad on the cosmic level corresponds almost exactly to the Plotinian First Intellect. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, pp. 236-237)

But the universal divine Intellect ['aql-i-kulliy-i-ilahi], which transcends nature, is the outpouring grace [fayd] of the pre-existent Power. It encompasses all existing realities and receives its share of the lights and mysteries of God. It is an all-knowing power, not a power of investigation and sensing.... This divine intellectual power is confined to the holy Manifestations and the Daysprings of prophethood. A ray of this light falls upon the mirrors of the hearts of the righteous, that they may also receive, through the holy Manifestations, a share and benefit of this power. ...Their heavenly station encompasses all things, is aware of all mysteries, is informed of all signs, and rules supreme over all things. SAQ#58.4-5 (was SAQ.218-219)

For some hold fast to reason ('aql) and deny whatever reason comprehendeth not, and yet feeble minds can never grasp the reality of the stages that we have related: The universal divine Intellect alone can comprehend them. 'How can feeble reason embrace the Qur'anOr the spider snare a phoenix in its web?' CDB#2.68-69 (was SV.33)

If the wayfarers be among them that dwell in the court of the All-Praised, this is the station of the Intellect ('aql), which is known as the messenger of the realm of the body and the most great pillar. That which is intended, however, is the universal divine Intellect ('aql-i-kulliy-i-rabbaniy), whose sovereignty fostereth the growth of all things, and not every vain and feeble mind. CDB#7.15 (was SV.52) This station is that of the true standard (mizan) of knowledge and the final end of tests and trials. Nor is it needed, in this realm, to seek after knowledge, for He hath said concerning the guidance of wayfarers on this plane, "Fear ye God; God will teach you" [Qur'an 2:282], and again, "Knowledge ('ilm) is a light which God casteth into the heart of whomsoever He willeth [Hadith]." CDB#7.18 (was SV.53-54)

From the beginning that hath no beginning to the end that hath no end, there hath ever been but a single Will that hath shone forth in every age in a manifestation. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 4:6, 120-1, in article on Mazhar in EI2)

That which hath been mentioned in the Heavenly Books concerning 'attainment unto His presence' [liqā] is attainment to the presence of God's Manifestation who is none other than the Point of Truth and His Primal Will [Mashiyyat-i-Avvaliyyih]. Bayan 3:7




God, verily, created Joseph and His brothers in sanctified words from a sprinkling above a name, from an existing droplet of the (heavenly) Water. And when We inhaled from Joseph a scent of the Greatest Remembrance, We, with the permission of God, clothed Him in the garment of Prophethood. (The Bab, Qayyumu'l-Asma XI, provisional translation, BSB3:2 pp.48-49)

The Will is the First Remembrance.'... The cause of all things is the First Remembrance that God created from nothing. And he made in it the cause of all the creatures. As the Imam revealeth, ... 'The cause of things is the handiwork of God and this Handiwork hath no cause.' (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, Le Béyan Arabe, pp. 26-27; Suriy-i-Tawhid, ca. p. 79)

The Primal Will is the First Remembrance, the First Creature, and the First Fire. (The Bab, provisional translation, Excerpt of summary of the Persian Bayan, 4:3, P. Terry's trans. p. 34)

...the First Remembrance, which is the Primal Will of God, may be likened unto the sun. God hath created Him through the potency of His might, and He hath, from the beginning that hath no beginning, caused Him to be manifested in every Dispensation through the compelling power of His behest, and God will, to the end that knoweth no end, continue to manifest Him according to the good-pleasure of His invincible Purpose. And know thou that He indeed resembleth the sun. Were the risings of the sun to continue till the end that hath no end, yet there hath not been nor ever will be more than one sun.... It is this Primal Will which appeareth resplendent in every Prophet and speaketh forth in every revealed Book. It knoweth no beginning, inasmuch as the First deriveth its firstness from It; and knoweth no end, for the Last oweth its lastness unto It. In the time of the First Manifestation the Primal Will appeared in Adam; in the day of Noah It became known in Noah... Hence the inner meaning of the words uttered by the Apostle of God, 'I am all the Prophets', inasmuch as what shineth resplendent in each one of Them hath been and will ever remain one and the same sun.... SWB.126; GOH.245, GOH.267

God in truth created the Will before all other things and made it the cause of their existence. It is the First Remembrance, whereof the Imam asked while addressing Jonah: "Dost thou know what the Will is?" He replied: "No." Then he explained: "It is the First Remembrance." Through the gift of His wisdom and the excellence of His craftsmanship, God placed within it a sign of the manifestation of His self-subsistence, that it might indicate His oneness under all conditions. This Will hath seven modes without which it is impossible for anything to be clothed in the vesture of existence... Verily, God hath made its outer the same as its inner, its first the same as its last, and its concealment the same as its manifestation. There is nothing like unto it, for all else cometh into existence from nothing by the manifestation of its creative action through the appearance of the power of its Agent...     As the highest mode of the Will is established, let us turn towards the mode of its being that is called Purpose (irada). This is the station of the Second Remembrance wherein the condition of the remembrance of creation is made manifest through the limitation of the creative outpouring.... Through this station the mode of relationships (rab?) known as predestination (qadar) appeareth, which is the beginning of multiplicity and infinitude. Whatever is going to exist in the contingent world cometh into existence through the existence of Purpose....     After the mode of Purpose, God hath ordained five additional modes. Among them is the stage of predestination, whose object is the design (handasa) of substances, matters, existences, natures, essences, accidents, and forms after the first causes at the root of the creative act. Multiplicities and the distinction of images from realities and essences from attributes emerge in this stage.... The condition of choosing good or evil ariseth in the third stage, which is made manifest after the conjunction of the two Commands. This is by virtue of the essence of things. The secret of the possible is only revealed in the station of predestination and the triangular figure. Thus Christians say "the third of three," and use the shape of the cross in the ritual of the trinity.... (The Bab, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Valiy-i-Shushtar, INBA 14:417 ff., 40:137 ff., 53:34 ff., 67:195 ff., in "Selections on the seven stages")

Concerning thy question about the meaning of the philosopher's saying, "From the One proceedeth only One": The statement is incorrect when the Cause is meant to be the Absolute Essence... However, when the intention behind the statement is to refer to the Primal Utterance, which is created by God by Itself, for Itself, then verily it is the truth... As the Imam said... "O Yunus! Knowest thou what the Primal Will is?" He replied, "Nay." Then the Imam stated: "It is the Primal Utterance" (Dhikr).... There is no doubt that the Eternal Essence hath ever been immeasurably exalted above any association with His creatures; how much less could it become the source out of which things proceed. Though the statement is discussed in philosophy, the truth is that it must refer to the grades of the creative Action itself. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.095-096; GOH.197-198)

He [God] hath not begotten anything; rather He hath created all beings by His Will, and created the Will by Itself. Verily that Will is the First Point mentioned at the level of the contingent world. And the Will is the First Utterance [dhikr] confirmed by God Himself as His own praise. "Verily I am God; there is none other God but Me. I was a Hidden Treasure. I wished to be made known, and thus I called creation into being in order that I might be made known." (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.096)




Know that there are two natures in man: the material and the spiritual. The material nature is inherited from Adam, while the spiritual nature is inherited from the reality of the Word of God, which is the spirituality of Christ. The material nature is born of Adam, but the spiritual nature is born of the grace of the Holy Spirit. The material nature is the source of every imperfection, and the spiritual nature is the source of all perfection. SAQ#29.2 (was SAQ.118)

The third station is that of divine manifestation and heavenly splendour, which is the Word of God, the everlasting Grace, and the Holy Spirit. This station has neither beginning nor end... SAQ#38.4 (was SAQ.152)

Now, if we were to understand manifestational procession [qiyam-i-zuhuri] as "appearance" [tajalli] rather than "division into parts" [tajazzi], we have already stated that this is the manner of the procession and appearance of the Holy Spirit and the Word, which are from God. As it is said in the Gospel of John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God." It follows then that the Holy Spirit and the Word are the appearance [tajalli] of God and consist in the divine perfections that shone forth in the reality of Christ. And these perfections were with God, even as the sun which manifests the fullness of its glory in a mirror. For by "the Word" is not meant the body of Christ but the divine perfections that were manifested in Him. Thus Christ was like a spotless mirror which was turned towards the Sun of Truth, and the perfections of that Sun--that is, its light and heat--were plainly manifest in that mirror. If we look into the mirror, we see the sun and we say it is the sun. Therefore, the Word and the Holy Spirit, which consist in the perfections of God, are the divine appearance. This is the meaning of the verse in the Gospel which says: "the Word was with God, and the Word was God", for the divine perfections cannot be distinguished from the divine Essence. The perfections of Christ are called the Word since all created things are like individual letters, and individual letters do not convey a complete meaning, while the perfections of Christ are even as an entire word, for from a word a complete meaning can be inferred. As the reality of Christ was the manifestation of the divine perfections, it was even as a word. Why? Because it comprised a complete meaning, and that is why it has been called the Word. And know that the procession of the Word and the Holy Spirit from God, which is a manifestational procession [tajalliy-i-zuhuri] and appearance, should not be taken to mean that the reality of the Divinity has been divided or multiplied, or has descended from its heights of purity and sanctity. SAQ#54.5-6 (was SAQ.206-207)

And this is clear: a power above and beyond the powers of nature must needs be brought to bear, to change this black darkness into light, and these endless wrangles and wars, into fellowship and love amongst all the peoples of the earth. This power is none other than the breathings of the Holy Spirit and the mighty inflow of the Word of God. SWAB#023 p053

The Apostles were even as Letters, and Christ was the essence of the Word Itself.... the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are continually descending, and the power of the Word will exert such an influence that the letter shall become the mirror in which the splendid Sun - the Word itself - will be reflected.... SWAB#029 p060




God, verily, created Joseph and His brothers in sanctified words from a sprinkling above a name, from an existing droplet of the (heavenly) Water. And when We inhaled from Joseph a scent of the Greatest Remembrance, We, with the permission of God, clothed Him in the garment of Prophethood. (The Bab, Qayyumu'l-Asma XI, provisional translation, BSB3:2 pp.48-49)

I beseech Thee by Him Who is Thine exalted and supreme Remembrance, Whom Thou hast sent down unto all Thy creatures and invested with Thy name, the All-Glorious... PM#079 p131

If Thou refusest, O my God, to aid them that love Thee, assist Thou, then, Thine own Self and Him Who is Thy Remembrance. PM#083 p141

Well is it with every fair-minded person that hath judged fairly Him Who is the Most Great Remembrance, and woe betide him that hath erred and doubted. ESW.079

If all that which Thou hast sent down in glorification of this Most Great Remembrance, this Great Announcement, were to stream forth from the wellspring of Thy most august Pen, the inmates of the cities of knowledge and understanding would be dumbfounded... TB.115

Render thanks unto thy Lord for having ... raised thee up to magnify Him Who is the Most Great Remembrance in this glorious Announcement. TB.181

Say, O people, fulfil whatever ye understand of the Persian Bayan and whatever ye understand not ask this unerring Remembrance that He may set forth clearly that which God hath intended in His Book... TB.190

Whoso obeyeth the Remembrance of God and His Book hath in truth obeyed God and His chosen ones... SWB.043

Fear God from this day onwards in the views ye advance, for He Who is Our Remembrance in your midst, and Who cometh from Us, is, in very truth, the Judge and Witness. SWB.044

If ye believe in the one True God, follow Me, this Most Great Remembrance of God sent forth by your Lord... SWB.045

God hath caused this Remembrance to be, in very truth, independent of all the dwellers of earth and heaven. SWB.051

Cleave ye tenaciously to the Cord of the All-Highest God, which is but this Arabian Youth, Our Remembrance - He Who standeth Concealed at the point of ice amidst the ocean of fire. SWB.054, GOH.076

Fear ye God, and Our Cause, which concerneth Him Who is the Most Great Remembrance of God. PDC#212, SWB.055

The infidels of a truth, seek to separate God from His Remembrance, but God hath determined to perfect His Light through His Remembrance... SWB.060

Verily His Remembrance is come to you from God after an interval during which there were no Messengers... SWB.062

Indeed, whoso visiteth the Remembrance of God after His passing, it is as though he hath attained the presence of the Lord, seated upon His mighty Throne. SWB.064

Verily We have taken a covenant from every created thing upon its coming into being concerning the Remembrance of God... SWB.065

Verily the true God calleth saying:  He Who is the Remembrance is indeed the sovereign Truth from God... SWB.066

With each and every Prophet Whom We have sent down in the past, We have established a separate Covenant concerning the Remembrance of God and His Day. SWB.068

Verily the object of each and every sign revealed by God in the Scriptures or in the world at large or in the hearts of men is but to make them fully realize that this Remembrance is indeed the True One from God. SWB.069

Inflict not upon the Most Great Remembrance what the Umayyads cruelly inflicted upon Husayn in the Holy Land. SWB.069

This Remembrance is indeed the glorious Remnant of the Light of God, and He will be best for you... SWB.071

God, of a truth, revealed unto Me in the sacred house of the Ka`bah, '... I have singled Thee out for Myself and have chosen Thee as the Remembrance' SWB.073

...the First Remembrance, which is the Primal Will of God, may be likened unto the sun. God hath created Him through the potency of His might, and He hath, from the beginning that hath no beginning, caused Him to be manifested in every Dispensation through the compelling power of His behest, and God will, to the end that knoweth no end, continue to manifest Him according to the good-pleasure of His invincible Purpose. And know thou that He indeed resembleth the sun. Were the risings of the sun to continue till the end that hath no end, yet there hath not been nor ever will be more than one sun.... It is this Primal Will which appeareth resplendent in every Prophet and speaketh forth in every revealed Book. It knoweth no beginning, inasmuch as the First deriveth its firstness from It; and knoweth no end, for the Last oweth its lastness unto It. In the time of the First Manifestation the Primal Will appeared in Adam; in the day of Noah It became known in Noah... Hence the inner meaning of the words uttered by the Apostle of God, 'I am all the Prophets', inasmuch as what shineth resplendent in each one of Them hath been and will ever remain one and the same sun.... SWB.126; GOH.245, GOH.267

Fear ye God, O concourse of kings, lest ye remain afar from Him Who is His Remembrance [the Bab], after the Truth hath come unto you with a Book and signs from God, as spoken through the wondrous tongue of Him Who is His Remembrance. PDC#067 p028 (the Bab)

Aid thou, with the truth, after having aided the Book, Him Who is Our Most Great Remembrance... SWB.041, PDC#103 p043

He [the Bab], as affirmed by Himself, 'the Primal Point from which have been generated all created things,' ... the 'Remembrance of God'... GPB.057

In the rank of the First Remembrance, which is the most great of the degrees of the creation, this First Remembrance must exist for four causes: the creation by God, the very being, the form, and the utility or fruit. Existence is not possible in the world of contingency except by the aid of these four aspects. Each thing, to manifest its existence, must have an element of fire, an element of air and of water to conserve this existence, and an element of earth to accept the degrees. (The Bab, provisional translation, Suriy-i-Tawhid, in Nicolas' le Beyan Arabe, pp. 28-29 and P. Terry's trans., p. 11)




When He purposed to call the new creation into being, He sent forth the Manifest and Luminous Point from the horizon of His Will; it passed through every sign and manifested itself in every form until it reached the zenith, as bidden by God, the Lord of all men.  This Point is the focal centre of the circle of Names and marketh the culmination of the manifestations of Letters in the world of creation. Through it have appeared indications of the impenetrable Mystery, the adorned Symbol, He Who standeth revealed in the Most Great Name - a Name which is recorded in the luminous Tablet and is inscribed in the holy, the blessed, the snow-white Scroll.  And when the Point was joined to the second Letter it traversed the heavens of exposition and utterance.  Then the eternal Light of God shed its radiance, flared up in the midmost heart of the firmament of testimony and produced two Luminaries. TB.101-102

Verily this is the Primal Point, arrayed in His new attire and manifested in His glorious Name.  He at present beholdeth everything from this Horizon.  Indeed He is supreme over all things.  TB.182

The Point is the differentiator of the Letters and the Letters emanate from It. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:8, 10)

God creates by His Primal Will both Light and Fire, and His Will is the Nuqta or Point. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:13; cf. 3:8)

The whole of the Bayan is the unfolding of the Point, which is the Primal Will, and resembles the sun. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:7; cf. 3:10, 12, and 4:12)

The Nuqta or Point is the Mirror of God and existed before the Prophet. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 6:7)

...the First Remembrance, which is the Primal Will of God, may be likened unto the sun. God hath created Him through the potency of His might, and He hath, from the beginning that hath no beginning, caused Him to be manifested in every Dispensation through the compelling power of His behest, and God will, to the end that knoweth no end, continue to manifest Him according to the good-pleasure of His invincible Purpose. And know thou that He indeed resembleth the sun. Were the risings of the sun to continue till the end that hath no end, yet there hath not been nor ever will be more than one sun.... It is this Primal Will which appeareth resplendent in every Prophet and speaketh forth in every revealed Book. It knoweth no beginning, inasmuch as the First deriveth its firstness from It; and knoweth no end, for the Last oweth its lastness unto It. In the time of the First Manifestation the Primal Will appeared in Adam; in the day of Noah It became known in Noah... Hence the inner meaning of the words uttered by the Apostle of God, 'I am all the Prophets', inasmuch as what shineth resplendent in each one of Them hath been and will ever remain one and the same sun.... SWB.126; GOH.245, GOH.267
