



Now, if we were to understand manifestational procession [qiyam-i-zuhuri] as "appearance" [tajalli] rather than "division into parts" [tajazzi], we have already stated that this is the manner of the procession and appearance of the Holy Spirit and the Word, which are from God. As it is said in the Gospel of John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God." It follows then that the Holy Spirit and the Word are the appearance [tajalli] of God and consist in the divine perfections that shone forth in the reality of Christ. And these perfections were with God, even as the sun which manifests the fullness of its glory in a mirror. For by "the Word" is not meant the body of Christ but the divine perfections that were manifested in Him. Thus Christ was like a spotless mirror which was turned towards the Sun of Truth, and the perfections of that Sun--that is, its light and heat--were plainly manifest in that mirror. If we look into the mirror, we see the sun and we say it is the sun. Therefore, the Word and the Holy Spirit, which consist in the perfections of God, are the divine appearance. This is the meaning of the verse in the Gospel which says: "the Word was with God, and the Word was God", for the divine perfections cannot be distinguished from the divine Essence. The perfections of Christ are called the Word since all created things are like individual letters, and individual letters do not convey a complete meaning, while the perfections of Christ are even as an entire word, for from a word a complete meaning can be inferred. As the reality of Christ was the manifestation of the divine perfections, it was even as a word. Why? Because it comprised a complete meaning, and that is why it has been called the Word. And know that the procession of the Word and the Holy Spirit from God, which is a manifestational procession [tajalliy-i-zuhuri] and appearance, should not be taken to mean that the reality of the Divinity has been divided or multiplied, or has descended from its heights of purity and sanctity. SAQ#54.5-6 (was SAQ.206-207)

This, verily, is the most exalted Word which the Mother Book hath sent down and revealed unto you. GWB#111 p217-218

...the holy, the glorious and exalted Word ... hath issued forth from the repository of the knowledge of the Maker of the Heavens and the Creator of Names. TB.021

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. John 1:1-5     This statement [John 1:1] is brief but replete with the greatest meanings. Its applications are illimitable and beyond the power of books or words to contain and express. PUP.154




If a clear and spotless mirror were placed before the sun, the light and heat, the form and image of the sun would appear therein with such a manifestational appearance that if a beholder were to say, "This is the sun", he would be speaking the truth. But the mirror is the mirror and the sun is the sun. The sun is but one sun, and remains one even if it appears in numerous mirrors.... ...the sanctified Reality of the Word of God is even as a clear, spotless, and shining mirror wherein the heat and light, the form and image of the Sun of Truth--that is to say, all its perfections--are reflected. SAQ#54.6-7 (was SAQ.206-207)

...a function of the sun is the revelation of the mysteries and creative purposes hidden within the phenomenal world. The outer sun is a sign or symbol of the inner and ideal Sun of Truth, the Word of God. Inasmuch as this is the century of light, it is evident that the Sun of Reality, the Word, has revealed itself to all humankind. PUP.074

The Word is the master key for the whole world, inasmuch as through its potency the doors of the hearts of men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked. No sooner had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour shone forth upon the mirror of love than the blessed word 'I am the Best-Beloved' was reflected therein. TB.173, Ruhi6.1.23




The creative word of command of God, the logos, is not merely a spark out of God, but the logos is the life-breath of God. In the logos, in the life-breath of God, already all the possibilities of existence rest, all the forms of being of creation. Let Baha'u'llah Himself talk: '...The word of God, the logos, is God's highest, overflowing (emanating) love, kindness and the being in all that is and has been; that is, goodness [kindness] and love, thought of as logos, are the resting pole in the transientness [evanescence] of appearances. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 4)




The creative word of command of God, the logos, is not merely a spark out of God, but the logos is the life-breath of God. In the logos, in the life-breath of God, already all the possibilities of existence rest, all the forms of being of creation. Let Baha'u'llah Himself talk: '...The word of God, the logos, is God's highest, overflowing (emanating) love, kindness and the being in all that is and has been; that is, goodness [kindness] and love, thought of as logos, are the resting pole in the transientness [evanescence] of appearances. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 4)

But while God does not create, the first principle of God, Love, is the creative principle. Love is an outpour from God, and is pure spirit. It is one aspect of the Logos, the Holy Spirit. It is the immediate cause of the laws which govern nature, endless verities of nature which science has uncovered. BSC#609 p.300
