



But true felicity for the animal consists in passing from the animal world into the human realm, like the microscopic beings that, through the air and the water, enter into the body of man, are assimilated, and replace that which has been consumed in his body. SAQ#15.5 (was SAQ.079)




...it is said in the Gospel that God is like a potter who makes "one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour". Now, the dishonoured vessel has no right to reproach the potter, saying, "Why did you not make me a precious cup that would be passed from hand to hand?" The meaning of these words is that souls occupy different stations. That which occupies the lowest station of existence, like the mineral, has no right to object, saying, "O God, why have you denied me the perfections of the plant?" Likewise, the plant has no right to protest that it has been deprived of the perfections of the animal realm. And, similarly, it is not befitting for the animal to complain of the want of human perfections. No, all these things are perfect in their own degree and must pursue the perfections of that degree. SAQ#70.5 (was SAQ.249) cf. Omar Khayyam (Fitzgerald translation, 1st edition): Listen again. One Evening at the Close Of Ramazan, ere the better Moon arose, In that old Potter's Shop I stood alone With the clay Population round in Rows. And, strange to tell, among that Earthen Lot Some could articulate, while others not: And suddenly one more impatient cried-- ``Who is the Potter, pray, and who the Pot?'' Then said another--``Surely not in vain ``My Substance from the common Earth was ta'en, ``That He who subtly wrought me into Shape ``Should stamp me back to common Earth again.'' Another said--``Why, ne'er a peevish Boy, ``Would break the Bowl from which he drank in Joy; ``Shall He that made the vessel in pure Love ``And Fansy, in an after Rage destroy?'' None answer'd this; but after Silence spake A Vessel of a more ungainly Make: ``They sneer at me for leaning all awry; ``What! did the Hand then of the Potter shake?'' Said one--``Folks of a surly Tapster tell, ``And daub his Visage with the Smoke of Hell; ``They talk of some strict Testing of us--Pish! ``He's a Good Fellow, and 'twill all be well.'' Then said another with a long-drawn Sigh, ``My Clay with long oblivion is gone dry: ``But, fill me with the old familiar Juice, ``Methinks I might recover by-and-by!''

[W]hoever possesseth power over anything must elevate it to its uttermost perfection that it not be deprived of its own paradise. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.255)




And as for [the objection] that has been mentioned previously concerning the fact that if [the concepts of] bringing into being and origination become attached to realities and potentialities, it becomes necessary to postulate compulsion and force in the creation of the True and Self-Sufficient One. And this would deny the complete Justice and all-embracing Mercy of God.... For example with respect to the sun and its rays, the degree of its effusion and action with respect to its rays is identical. And yet the rays according to their own desire and pleasure can be found hundreds and thousands of miles from the sun while some encircle close to the sun. Therefore notice that the fact that rays are scattered from the sun to far and near does not mean that the sun has arranged some of them to be near and some of them to be distant but rather in bestowing existence it makes no distinction or augmentation with respect to any. It has manifested all with the same effulgence. But each, according to its own desire, has accepted a particular station and status. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:038-039)

Furthermore, consider the signs of the revelation of God in their relation one to another. Can the sun, which is but one of these signs, be regarded as equal in rank to darkness? The one true God beareth Me witness! No man can believe it, unless he be of those whose hearts are straitened, and whose eyes have become deluded. Say: Consider your own selves. Your nails and eyes are both parts of your bodies. Do ye regard them of equal rank and value? If ye say, yea; say, then: ye have indeed charged with imposture, the Lord, my God, the All-Glorious, inasmuch as ye pare the one, and cherish the other as dearly as your own life. GWB#093 p188




The species and essences of all things are permanent and changeless. Only within the limits of each species do progress and decline occur. In the human species, man's essence has always been preserved and unchanged and this was and will continue the same. As you will see from the ancient and human bodies which have been dried and embalmed and exhumed from the pyramids of Egypt 5,000 years after their death, there was not the slightest change or variation, not even a hair is different from the human beings of today. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA9.027. First two sentences in JBS5:4, p.61. Cf. Cuvier in Brown (2001), 16)

...the renewal of an object's existence cannot bring about the transformation of its essence. For the substance of imperfection, by returning, will not become the reality of perfection; total darkness will not become a source of light; abject weakness will not become power and strength; and an earthly essence will not become a heavenly reality. However often it may return, the infernal tree will never bring forth a sweet fruit, nor will the good tree bear a bitter one. SAQ#81.8

The outward is the symbol of the inward. No matter how far each of the different species may progress, it will never reach the rank above its own. For instance, no matter how much the mineral may develop, it will not attain to the power of growth within the vegetable kingdom. Likewise, no matter how far the vegetable may evolve, it will never develop the sense of feeling. Similarly, no matter how much an animal be trained and developed, it will never achieve the reasoning power of the mind. Thus, it hath become evident that each and every created thing doth possess a particular station within which it advanceth. Similarly, every human being hath a spiritual station, and doth progress in its own station and rank. The one who is stunt of mind, no matter how intense a discipline he may endure, no matter how diligently he may strive, and how regenerated he may become, he will never attain to the station of the Daysprings of Revelation and the Dawning-Places of Inspiration. The bitter tree will never become a lofty palm tree, and the colocynth will never bear sweet fruit. (Provisional translation, AB01205)




...after the noblest stations in the world of humanity have been attained, further progress can be made only in the degrees of perfection, not in station, for the degrees are finite but the divine perfections are infinite. SAQ#64.5 (was SAQ.237)
