



Modern philosophers say: "Nowhere do we see a spirit in man, and, although we have investigated the inmost recesses of the human body, nowhere do we perceive a spiritual power. How then are we to imagine a power which is not sensible?" The divine philosophers reply: "The spirit of the animal is not sensible either and cannot be perceived through our material powers: How do you infer its existence? There is no doubt that it is from its effects that you infer in the animal the existence of a power which is lacking in the plant, and that is the power of the senses--sight, hearing, and the other powers. It is from these that you infer that there is an animal spirit. Infer, likewise, from the aforementioned signs and arguments the existence of a human spirit. Thus, since there are signs in the animal that cannot be found in the plant, you say that this sensory power is one of the hallmarks of the animal spirit. You see likewise in man signs, powers, and perfections that do not exist in the animal: Infer then that there is a power in him of which the animal is bereft." SAQ#48.11 (was SAQ.189)

If we were to deny all that is not accessible to the senses, then we would be forced to deny realities which undoubtedly exist. For example, the ether is not sensible, although its reality can be proven. The power of gravity is not sensible, although its existence is likewise undeniable. Whence do we affirm their existence? From their signs. For instance, this light consists in the vibrations of the ether, and from these vibrations we infer its existence. SAQ#48.12 (was SAQ.190)




Some say that human existence is among those things that have appeared in the world of being and that are due to the exigencies of nature. Were this true, man would be the branch and nature the root. But is it possible that there could exist a will, a consciousness, and certain perfections in the branch which are absent in the root? SAQ#1.6 (was SAQ.004)

When you wish to reflect upon or consider a matter, you consult something within you.... Whom do you consult?  Who is within you deciding this question? Surely there is a distinct power, an intelligent ego. Were it not distinct from your ego, you would not be consulting it. It is greater than the faculty of thought. It is your spirit which teaches you, which advises and decides upon matters. PUP.242

It is manifest that beyond this material body, man is endowed with another reality, which is the world of exemplars constituting the heavenly body of man. In speaking, man says, 'I saw,' 'I spoke,' 'I went.' Who is this I? It is obvious that this I is different from this body. It is clear that when man is thinking, it is as though he were consulting with some other person. PUP.464

How can I have an identity that persists through time if my soul is a body and all body is in perpetual flux? And when I perceive something, I perceive as one perceiver, and not as a multitude of different perceiving parts. The power to perceive acts both as a unity and as present throughout the different parts of the body. But a body cannot be in different places and not lose its unity. Therefore soul as the faculty of perception cannot be a body. (Based on Plotinus, Enn.IV.7.6-7; in O'meara p.16)

As soon as the atheist comes to you, as the great tempter and unifier and asks: "Prove, show to me your soul", then say to him boldly: "Prove to me that I have no soul, show me what it is that thinks in me, for the brain is but the implement, where is the life of the implement, where does the implement come from, who creates it?" (Fallscheer notes, p. 61)

The sixth proof: When you contemplate or consider any matter, you often consult with yourself about it. But who is it that gives opinions to you like a person sitting in front of you holding a conversation? When you are deliberating, with whom are you conversing? It is certain that it is the soul. AvK1.193, KHT2.185ff; PC00607




It is clear then that if man did not possess a power beyond the animal powers, the animal would perforce surpass man in significant discoveries and in the comprehension of realities. It follows from this argument that man is endowed with a gift, and possesses a perfection, which is not present in the animal. Moreover, the animal perceives sensible things but cannot perceive conceptual realities. SAQ#48.5-6 (was SAQ.186)

Modern philosophers say: "Nowhere do we see a spirit in man, and, although we have investigated the inmost recesses of the human body, nowhere do we perceive a spiritual power. How then are we to imagine a power which is not sensible?" The divine philosophers reply: "The spirit of the animal is not sensible either and cannot be perceived through our material powers: How do you infer its existence? There is no doubt that it is from its effects that you infer in the animal the existence of a power which is lacking in the plant, and that is the power of the senses--sight, hearing, and the other powers. It is from these that you infer that there is an animal spirit. Infer, likewise, from the aforementioned signs and arguments the existence of a human spirit. Thus, since there are signs in the animal that cannot be found in the plant, you say that this sensory power is one of the hallmarks of the animal spirit. You see likewise in man signs, powers, and perfections that do not exist in the animal: Infer then that there is a power in him of which the animal is bereft." SAQ#48.11 (was SAQ.189)

A rational proof for the immortality of the spirit is this, that no effect can be produced by a non-existent thing; that is, it is impossible that any effect should appear from absolute nothingness. For the effect of a thing is secondary to its existence, and that which is secondary is conditioned upon the existence of that which is primary. SAQ#60.5 (was SAQ.225)

Consider another proof: Every cause is followed by an effect and vice versa; there could be no effect without a cause preceding it.... Motion without a mover or cause of motion is inconceivable. Jesus Christ lived two thousand years ago. Today we behold His manifest signs.... Can we say that Christ did not exist? We can absolutely conclude that Christ existed and that from Him these traces proceeded. PUP.307-308

...no effect occurs without a cause.... though Christ appeared one thousand nine hundred and twelve years ago, His signs still exist today and His sovereignty and influence are manifest. Is it possible for that divine Spirit to be non-existent and these great signs still present? Therefore it is established that the Cause of these signs is He Who is the source of eternal light and everlasting bounties. (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 197)

Reflect: If this soul appeared two thousand years ago, today its effects are present. If it existed three thousand years ago, its traces are still apparent. Although it is invisible to the world of bodies, in the realm of the Kingdom it exists. Consequently, its traces are evident and its lights are shining, because a non-existent thing has no effect. It is certain that an effect is the consequence of something which exists. What influence has a non-existent thing? These manifest signs that remain behind from the perfect existences are proof of their existence. They possess the life of the Kingdom and the divine perfections. KHT1.100, PC00603

The third proof: Every being has a beginning to its existence, but later its traces are obliterated and no sign of it remains. But consider those souls who lived two thousand years ago. Their traces still appear and shine forth like the sun one after another. His holiness Christ lived nineteen hundred years ago, yet His sovereignty is established today. This is a sign, but a sign cannot result from a nonexistent thing. If there is a sign, it is certain that its cause also exists. AvK1.192, KHT2.185ff; PC00607




Verily the body is composed of physical elements, and every composite must needs be decomposed. The spirit, however, is a single essence, fine and delicate, incorporeal, everlasting, and of God. SWAB#143 p167

Consider that as soon as the constituent parts of anything, be it mineral, plant, or animal, are disintegrated and its elemental composition is dissolved, all effect, influence, and trace thereof vanish. But it is not so with the human spirit and reality, which continues to manifest its signs, to exert its influence, and to sustain its effects even after the dissociation and decomposition of the various parts and members of the body. SAQ#60.6 (was SAQ.225)

...when the atom entered into the composition of the tree, it died to the mineral kingdom, ... but throughout its traversing it was subject to transformation and not annihilation.... In the mineral realm there was a spirit of existence; in the world of plant life and organisms it reappeared as the vegetative spirit; thence it attained the animal spirit and finally aspired to the human spirit. These are degrees and changes but not obliteration, and this is a rational proof that man is everlasting, ever-living. PUP.088

...there is no change or transformation in it [the spirit], for it is not a composition of elements, and anything that is not composed of elements is eternal. Change and transformation are peculiarities of composition. There is no change and transformation in the spirit. PUP.242-243

If an elementary substance is possessed of immortality, how can the human spirit or reality, which is wholly above combination and composition, be destroyed?  Nay, rather, that spirit, which is all in all, is a unit and not a compound.  Its destruction, therefore, is not possible. PUP.260

As the spirit of man is not composed of material elements, it is not subject to decomposition and, therefore, has no death.  It is self-evident that the human spirit is simple, single and not composed in order that it may come to immortality, and it is a philosophical axiom that the individual or indivisible atom is indestructible.... the human spirit, inasmuch as it is not composed of individual elements or atoms - as it is sanctified above these elements - is eternal.  This is a self-evident proof of its immortality. PUP.306

...the inner and essential reality of man is not composed of elements and, therefore, cannot be decomposed.  It is not an elemental composition subject to disintegration or death. PUP.415

The soul is not a combination of elements, it is not composed of many atoms, it is of one indivisible substance and therefore eternal.... The soul, being of that one indivisible substance, can suffer neither disintegration nor destruction, therefore there is no reason for its coming to an end. PT#29:13-15 p091

The body is composed ... of corporeal elements ... but the spirit is an essence, simple, pure, spiritual, eternal, perpetual and divine. TAB.316

As the soul (ruh) of man is not the result of composition and does not come into being through the affinity of molecular elements, it is not subject to disintegration. (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 195)

see also Plotinus, Enn.IV.7.12

One questioned Him about spirit and matter. The Master replied: "This question may be answered in two ways, philosophically as well as spiritually. Philosophically, the answer is easy because in philosophy the spirit is energy and all matter is endowed with energy; and this power is inseparable from matter, as in electricity. In other words, matter is a vehicle for spirit but the transformation of matter does not involve the extinction of that power because transformation and transference are in the properties of matter. Immaterial beings or realities, however, are protected and preserved and their essential power remains unaltered. The manifestation or appearance of the spirit varies due to changes in matter and bodies. This, however, does not mean that spirit itself is subject to extinction." (Mahmud's Diary, 17 Oct. 1912, p.335)         [alternative translation:] One of those present asked about the relationship between spirit and matter. `Abdu'l-Baha replied: 'This question has two answers: one is philosophical and the other is divine. The philosophical answer is easy because in philosophy 'spirit' is defined as a force belonging to every material thing which cannot be dissociated from it. For example, the power of electricity, or to use another expression, the 'spirit of instruments', is material, but through the transformation of matter the destruction of that force is not required, since transformation and transferal are among the concomitants of material things. As for immaterial realities and spirits, they are inviolable and impregnable, for these fundamental powers are eternal, and it is through the transformation of bodies and corporeal forms that the manifestation of spirit is diversified. It is not possible for spirit itself to become annihilated.'

The first proof: It is evident that all material things are composed of the elements, and from every composition one being has come into existence. For instance, through the composition of the elements this flower has come into existence and this shape has become visible. When the time comes for this composition to disintegrate, the flower will vanish, and it is inevitable that this composition will eventually become decomposed. But if an existent is not composed of physical elements, it is not subject to disintegration and death. Nay, rather it shall eternally live and endure. Since the soul is by no means composed of elements, it is therefore not subject to disintegration. Every composed being shall become decomposed, but since the soul is not composed, it can never perish. AvK1.190, KHT2.185ff; PC00607

The human spirit is detached [from the world] and is not composed [of elements]. Thus it experienceth neither dissolution, nor change nor transformation, but remaineth in a single state. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation) AvK1.240

The world in which the soul resideth is perpetual and unchanging. It is a spiritual world; it is the world of the Kingdom, which is eternal and everlasting. All the luminous bodies existing in this infinite space are composed of elements, and since every composition in the end must become decomposed, they are therefore deprived of immortality. The world of the Kingdom, however, is free and sanctified from composition, and is therefore eternal and everlasting. AvK1.268, MKT3:174; AB00457




This perfect body can be compared to a mirror, and the human spirit to the sun: If the glass is shattered or the mirror destroyed, no harm befalls the outpouring grace of the sun, which continues unabated. SAQ#36.3 (was SAQ.144)

Know thou that the soul of man is exalted above, and is independent of all infirmities of body or mind. That a sick person showeth signs of weakness is due to the hindrances that interpose themselves between his soul and his body, for the soul itself remaineth unaffected by any bodily ailments. GWB#080 p153-154

Consider how the human intellect develops and weakens, and may at times come to naught, whereas the soul changeth not.... Forel.08

Another proof is this: Man's body may become weak or robust, sick or healthy, tired or rested; it may suffer the loss of a hand or leg; it may decline in material powers; it may become blind, deaf, dumb, or paralysed--in short, it may become gravely impaired. And yet, despite this, the spirit maintains its original condition and spiritual perceptions, suffering no impairment or disruption. SAQ#61.5 (was SAQ.229)

Dismember a healthy man; the spirit is not dismembered. Amputate his feet; his spirit is there. He may become lame; the spirit is not affected. The spirit is ever the same; no change or transformation can you perceive, and because there is no change or transformation, it is everlasting and permanent. PUP.243

Observe and understand how this human body changes; nevertheless, the spirit of man remains ever in the same condition.... This is proof that the spirit of man is distinct from his body. Defects in the body or its members do not imply defects in the spirit. This leads to the accurate conclusion that if the whole body should be subjected to a radical change, the spirit will survive that change; that even if the body of man is destroyed and becomes nonexistent, the spirit of man remains unaffected. For the spirit of man is everlasting. Sometimes the body sleeps, the eyes do not see, the ears do not hear, the members cease to act, every function is as inactive as death; nevertheless, the spirit sees, hears and soars on high. For it is possessed of these faculties which operate without the instrumentality of the body. In the world of thought it sees without eyes, hears without ears and travels without the motion of foot. Without physical force it exercises every function. This makes it evident that during sleep the spirit is alive though the body is as dead. In the world of dreams the body becomes absolutely passive, but the spirit still functions actively, possessed of all susceptibilities. This leads to the conclusion that the life of the spirit is neither conditional nor dependent upon the life of the body. PUP.259

Still another proof: The body of man becomes lean or fat; it is afflicted with disease, suffers mutilation; perhaps the eyes become blind, the ears deaf; but none of these imperfections and failings afflict or affect the spirit. The spirit of man remains in the same condition, unchanged.... This is proof that death is only destruction of the body, while the spirit remains immortal, eternal. PUP.308

Another evidence or proof of the indestructibility of the reality of man is that it is not affected by the changes of the physical body.... As we find the soul unaffected by this change and disintegration of the body, we, therefore, prove it to be immortal; for that which is changeable is accidental, evanescent. PUP.415-416

Sometimes the body becomes weak, but that other reality is in its own normal state. PUP.464

Regarding your questions concerning the condition of the soul during an illness. The passages in 'Gleanings' make it quite clear that physical ailments, no matter how severe, cannot bring any change in the inherent condition of the soul, as Baha'u'llah says: 'The spirit is permanent and steadfast in its station'. LG#385 (8 Mar. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...the transference of the body from one condition to another brings about no change or alteration in the soul.... It has often come to pass that one of the limbs of the body has been amputated; the soul, however, remains the same and is not affected at all. Therefore, it is clear that the changes experienced by the body do not affect the soul. As long as it is unchanged, it will remain eternal. (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 196)

We see that cold, heat, suffering, etc, only concern the body, they do not touch the spirit. PT#60:3 p65

The fifth proof: The body of man may become weak, it may become ill or incapacitated, or it may become healthy, but the soul remains unchanging in its own state. If the body becomes weak, the soul is not weakened; if the body becomes corpulent, the soul is not enlarged; if the body becomes indisposed, the soul does not suffer. If the body becomes healthy, the soul does not attain health. Therefore, it is evident that apart from this body there is another unique reality connected to the human body which is immutable and everlasting. AvK1.193, KHT2.185ff; PC00607




Verily I say, the human soul is exalted above all egress and regress. It is still, and yet it soareth; it moveth, and yet it is still. It is, in itself, a testimony that beareth witness to the existence of a world that is contingent, as well as to the reality of a world that hath neither beginning nor end. Behold how the dream thou hast dreamed is, after the lapse of many years, re-enacted before thine eyes.... GWB#082 p161-162

One of the created phenomena is the dream. Behold how many secrets have been deposited therein, how many wisdoms treasured up, how many worlds concealed. Observe how thou art asleep in a dwelling, and its doors are shut; on a sudden thou findest thyself in a far-off city, which thou enterest without moving thy feet or wearying thy body. Without taxing thine eyes, thou seest; without troubling thine ears, thou hearest; without a tongue, thou speakest. And perchance when ten years have passed, thou wilt witness in this temporal world the very things thou hast dreamt tonight.... God, the Most High, hath placed these signs in men so that veiled minds might not deny the mysteries of the life beyond, nor belittle that which hath been promised them. ... Likewise, Luqman, who had drunk from the wellspring of wisdom and tasted of the waters of mercy, in proving to his son Nathan the planes of resurrection and death, advanced the dream as evidence and example. CDB#2.66-72 (was SV.32, SV.34)

Consider man while in the state of sleep; it is evident that all his parts and members are at a standstill, are functionless. ...but, nevertheless, he does see in the world of dreams, he does hear, he speaks, he walks, he may even fly in an airplane.... Hence, it is proof that there is a spirit in the man... PUP.243

Sometimes the body sleeps, the eyes do not see, the ears do not hear, the members cease to act, every function is as inactive as death; nevertheless, the spirit sees, hears and soars on high.... This leads to the conclusion that the life of the spirit is neither conditional nor dependent upon the life of the body. PUP.259

...consider the world of dreams, wherein the body of man is immovable, seemingly dead, not subject to sensation.... But the spirit of man is not asleep; it sees, hears, moves, perceives and discovers realities. Therefore, it is evident that the spirit of man is not affected by the change or condition of the body. Even though the material body should die, the spirit continues eternally alive, just as it exists and functions in the inert body in the realm of dreams. That is to say, the spirit is immortal and will continue its existence after the destruction of the body. PUP.306

...this immortal human soul is endowed with two means of perception: One is effected through instrumentality; the other, independently. ...the immortality of the soul, or spirit, is not contingent or dependent upon the so-called immortality of the body, because the body in the quiescent state, in the time of sleep, may be as dead, unconscious, senseless; but the soul, or spirit, is possessed of perceptions, sensations, motion and discovery. PUP.416

...man sees in the world of dreams. He travels in the East; he travels in the West; although his body is stationary, his body is here. It is that reality in him which makes the journey while the body sleeps. There is no doubt that a reality exists other than the outward, physical reality. PUP.464

...in the world of sleep, man's body is powerless and his faculties inactive... but the soul sees, hears, moves and discovers realities. Therefore, it is proven that the soul is not destroyed with the death of the body... (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 196)

Consider thy state when asleep. Verily, I say, this phenomenon is the most mysterious of the signs of God amongst men, were they to ponder it in their hearts.... the world in which thou livest is different and apart from that which thou hast experienced in thy dream. The latter world hath neither beginning nor end. It would be true if thou wert to contend that this same world is, as decreed by the All-Glorious and Almighty God, within thy proper self and is wrapped up within thee. It would equally be true to maintain that thy spirit, having transcended the limitations of sleep and having stripped itself of all earthly attachment, hath, by the act of God, been made to traverse a realm which lieth hidden in the innermost reality of this world. GWB#079 p152, TB.187-188

Moreover, thou hast asked about the dream state. It is a special world among the divine worlds that expresseth and indicateth endless things. For example, it is proof of a world wherein a beginning and an end, a first and a last, are not seen, inasmuch as something is observed in a dream now and after a period of years the very same event is witnessed. From one perspective, if it is said to be the world of similitudes ('alam-i-mithal) between the two worlds, this is correct. It is similar to the Kingdom (Malakut)-which some consider to be the world of similitudes-which is between the Dominion (Jabarut) and this mortal world (nasut). In short, wert thou to reflect deeply upon this state, thou wouldst comprehend innumerable mysteries. In like manner, this world denoteth the place of gathering and resurrection after death, for as Luqman said to his son: 'If thou art unable to sleep, thou art unable to die; and if thou art unable to waken after sleep, thou art unable to rise after death.' Just as death is a reality, so is the world of the dream; and just as there is waking after sleep, there is rising after death. Disparities occur in dreams due to the difference of souls and thoughts, and sometimes on account of food and drink. In the visions of holy souls, however, there is no disparity, because these dreams are the same as being awake. O questioner, man is the consummate register and the perfect talisman; he is the register which containeth a similitude of whatsoever hath been created in the heavens and on the earth. When the soul is released from these transitory limitations and illusory conditions, it will traverse all the stages. The greater its freedom, the more strong, steadfast, and true will be its flight. (Baha'u'llah, in AvK1.318-319 and AvK1.242 and La'aliu'l-Hikmat 2:065-066; trans. K. Brown)

The fourth proof: What is death? Death is the cessation of the corporeal faculties of man. His eyes no longer see, his ears do not hear, his powers of perception have vanished, and his body retains no motive force. Notwithstanding this, you see how in the dream state that even though the corporeal faculties of man have ceased to function, he still hears, perceives, sees, and feels. It is apparent that it is the soul which sees and uses all the faculties in the dream state, whereas the faculties of the body have ceased to function. Therefore, the continuation of the powers of the soul is not dependent upon the body. AvK1.192, KHT2.185ff; PC00607




It is therefore evident that the spirit is different from the body, that the bird is different from the cage, and that the power and influence of the spirit is more pronounced without the intermediary of the body. Now, if the instrument becomes idle, its wielder continues to exist. For example, if the pen is abandoned or broken, the writer remains alive and well; if a house is destroyed, its owner lives on. This is one of the rational arguments proving the immortality of the soul. SAQ#61.4 (was SAQ.228-229)

The body of man may be in America while his spirit is laboring and working in the Far East, discovering, organizing and planning.... What is this power which, notwithstanding that it is embodied in America, is operating at the same time in the Orient, organizing, destroying, upbuilding? It is the spirit of man. This is irrefutable. PUP.242

The body is in one single place but the soul is present in various places and countries. It discovers America while in Spain. Thus, the soul has a control and influence which the body has not.... Therefore, it follows that its existence is not dependent on the body. (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 196)

The soul has two main faculties. (a) As outer circumstances are communicated to the soul by the eyes, ears, and brain of a man, so does the soul communicate its desires and purposes through the brain to the hands and tongue of the physical body, thereby expressing itself. The spirit in the soul is the very essence of life. (b) The second faculty of the soul expresses itself in the world of vision, where the soul inhabited by the spirit has its being, and functions without the help of the material bodily senses. PT#28:14 p086




...each created material being is possessed of a form; it cannot possess two forms at the same time....  In the spiritual reality of man, however, all geometrical figures can be simultaneously conceived, while in physical realities one image must be forsaken in order that another may be possible. This is the law of change and transformation, and change and transformation are precursors of mortality. PUP.242

The spirit of man ... can manifest itself in all forms at the same time. For example, we say that a material body is either square or spherical, triangular or hexagonal. While it is triangular, it cannot be square; and while it is square, it is not triangular. Similarly, it cannot be spherical and hexagonal at the same time. These various forms or shapes cannot be manifest at the same instant in one material object. Therefore, the form of the physical body of man must be destroyed and abandoned before it can assume or take unto itself another. Mortality, therefore, means transference from one form to another -- that is, transference from the human kingdom to the kingdom of the mineral. When the physical man is dead, he will return to dust; and this transference is equivalent to nonexistence. But the human spirit in itself contains all these forms, shapes and figures. It is not possible to break or destroy one form so that it may transfer itself into another. As an evidence of this, at the present moment in the human spirit you have the shape of a square and the figure of a triangle. Simultaneously also you can conceive a hexagonal form. All these can be conceived at the same moment in the human spirit, and not one of them needs to be destroyed or broken in order that the spirit of man may be transferred to another. There is no annihilation, no destruction; therefore, the human spirit is immortal because it is not transferred from one body into another body. PUP.307

...while it is impossible for an object to possess diverse forms at one and the same time, the spirit of man possesses all forms and has manifold shapes simultaneously. It has no need to change from one form to another. As it is beyond change and forms, it is non-material and eternal. (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 197)

The second proof: Every being in the universe requires a unique form to be realized. For example, it may have the form of a triangle, or the form of a square, or the form of a pentagon, or the form of a hexagon, but all of these forms cannot exist simultaneously in the same material entity, and it is impossible for that entity to come into existence while possessing multiple divergent forms. A being cannot have a triangular form at the same moment it has the shape of a square, nor can it possess the form of a square simultaneously with the form of a pentagon, nor the form of a pentagon with the form of a hexagon. Rather, that singular being is either triangular, square, or pentagonal. Consequently, when it is transferred from one shape to another, change and transformation result, and decomposition and inversion will appear. But if we reflect, we will perceive that the soul of man, unlike his body, can exist while simultaneously possessing endless forms. Whether it possesses the form of a triangle, the form of a square, the form of a pentagon, the form of a hexagon, or the form of an octagon, the soul exists with all of them, for it resides in the plane of the mind where translocation from one form to another does not occur. Therefore, the mind and the soul will not become annihilated. But with respect to material entities, if we desire to make a square form into a triangular form, we must completely destroy the former in order to compose the latter. The soul, however, is the container of all forms, and is perfect and complete in itself, for which reason it is impossible for it to be converted into other forms. This is why the soul is not subject to any change or alteration, and will remain as it is forever, imperishable and everlasting. This is a rational proof. AvK1.191, KHT2.185ff; PC00607

...no phenomenal organism can be possessed of two forms at the same time. If an object or phenomenon presents a triangular shape, it cannot simultaneously possess the shape of a square. If it is spherical, it cannot at the same time be pentagonal or hexagonal. In order to assume any given figure or form it must relinquish its previous shape or dimension. Thus the triangular must be abandoned to assume the square; the square must change to become a pentagon. These transformations or changes from one condition to another are equivalent to death. But the reality of man, the human spirit, is simultaneously possessed of all forms and figures without being bereft of any of them. It does not require transformation from one concept to another. Were it to be bereft of one or all figures, we would then say it has been transferred to another, and this would be equivalent to death. But as the human spirit possesses all the figures simultaneously, it has no transformation or death. PUP.260




Even the ether, the forces of which are said in natural philosophy to be heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. Likewise, nature itself is an intelligible and not a sensible reality; the human spirit is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. SAQ#16.3 (was SAQ.083-084)

...the world of the Kingdom is sanctified above all that can be seen by the eye or perceived by the other senses, such as hearing, smell, taste, or touch. Where then can one find in man this mind that resides in him and whose existence is beyond doubt? Were you to examine the human body with the eye, the ear, or the other senses, you would fail to find it, even though it clearly exists. The mind, therefore, has no place, although it is connected with the brain. So it is with the Kingdom. Likewise, love has no place, but it is connected with the heart. And in the same way, the Kingdom has no place, but it is connected with the human reality.... It follows clearly from these explanations that man is immortal and everlasting. SAQ#67.5-8 (was SAQ.242-243)

...all phenomena of the material world are subject to mortality and death, but the immortal spirit does not belong to the phenomenal world; it is holy and sanctified above material existence. ...it does not belong to the elemental world and, therefore, is beyond death or mortality, which are inseparable from that material realm of existence. If being is not subject to the limitation of material life, it is not subject to mortality. PUP.308

...when man looks at creation, he sees two things: that which is perceptible to the senses and that which is abstract. The things that are perceptible to the senses... are subject to change. But rational powers are not perceived by the physical senses ... and are not subject to change or alteration.... The soul, too, is one of the intellectual realities: it is unalterable and is not subject to annihilation. (Mahmud's Diary, 7 Aug. 1912, p. 197)

...the Kingdom is not a material location but is sanctified above time and place. It is a spiritual realm, a divine world, and it is the seat of the sovereignty of the almighty Lord. It is exalted above bodies and all that is corporeal, and it is freed and sanctified from the idle conjectures of men. For to be confined to place is a characteristic of bodies and not of spirits: Time and place encompass the body, not the mind and the soul. ...the spirit has no place: It is a placeless reality, and for the spirit earth and heaven are the same, since it makes discoveries in both. SAQ#67.1-2 (was SAQ.241)

That matter (or substance) which is the cause of the moderation and perfection of the body is that perfect moderate temperament which is produced by the organization and admixture of constituent elements; that matter (or substance) is material (or physical) not spiritual. But reason, which comprehends (or detects) the realities of things, is a spiritual reality, not physical (or material). Therefore, the animal is deprived of reason, and it (reason) is specialized to mankind. The animal feeleth realities which are perceptible to the senses, but man perceiveth intellectual realities (or things perceptible to reason). Consequently, it hath become evident that reason is a spiritual faculty, not physical (or material). (TAB.207, AB00567)




Should any one suppose that man is but a part of the world of nature, and he being endowed with these perfections, these being but manifestations of the world of nature, and thus nature is the originator of these perfections and is not deprived therefrom, to him we make reply and say: the part dependeth upon the whole; the part cannot possess perfections whereof the whole is deprived. Forel.12

If we accept the supposition that man is but a part of nature, we are confronted by an illogical statement, for this is equivalent to claiming that a part may be endowed with qualities which are absent in the whole.... The proof is complete that in man there is a power beyond the limitations of nature, and that power is the bestowal of God. PUP.017

It may be claimed that these powers [of man] are from nature itself and that man is a part of nature. In answer to this statement we will say that if nature is the whole and man is a part of that whole, how could it be possible for a part to possess qualities and virtues which are absent in the whole? PUP.030

...the question which presents food for reflection is this: How is it that man, who is a part of the universal plan, is possessed of certain qualities whereof nature is devoid? Is it conceivable that a drop should be imbued with qualities of which the ocean is completely deprived? PUP.080

...although the animal shares with man all the physical virtues and senses, a spiritual power has been bestowed upon man of which the animal is devoid. This is a proof that there is something in man above and beyond the endowment of the animal... This is as evident as the sun at midday. PUP.242

If it be claimed that the intellectual reality of man belongs to the world of nature - that it is a part of the whole - we ask is it possible for the part to contain virtues which the whole does not possess? For instance, is it possible for the drop to contain virtues of which the aggregate body of the sea is deprived? PUP.360

The very existence of man's intelligence proves his immortality. PT#29:29 p093




The soul has two main faculties. (a) As outer circumstances are communicated to the soul by the eyes, ears, and brain of a man, so does the soul communicate its desires and purposes through the brain to the hands and tongue of the physical body, thereby expressing itself. The spirit in the soul is the very essence of life. (b) The second faculty of the soul expresses itself in the world of vision, where the soul inhabited by the spirit has its being, and functions without the help of the material bodily senses. PT#28:14 p086

Consider thy state when asleep. Verily, I say, this phenomenon is the most mysterious of the signs of God amongst men, were they to ponder it in their hearts.... the world in which thou livest is different and apart from that which thou hast experienced in thy dream. The latter world hath neither beginning nor end. It would be true if thou wert to contend that this same world is, as decreed by the All-Glorious and Almighty God, within thy proper self and is wrapped up within thee. It would equally be true to maintain that thy spirit, having transcended the limitations of sleep and having stripped itself of all earthly attachment, hath, by the act of God, been made to traverse a realm which lieth hidden in the innermost reality of this world. GWB#079 p152, TB.187-188

When man is asleep, his soul can, in no wise, be said to have been inherently affected by any external object. It is not susceptible of any change in its original state or character. GWB#082 p160

Behold how the dream thou hast dreamed is, after the lapse of many years, re-enacted before thine eyes. Consider how strange is the mystery of the world that appeareth to thee in thy dream. Ponder in thine heart upon the unsearchable wisdom of God, and meditate on its manifold revelations.... GWB#082 p162

I beseech Thee... to make of what Thou didst reveal unto me in my sleep the surest foundation for the mansions of Thy love that are within the hearts of Thy loved ones, and the best instrument for the revelation of the tokens of Thy grace and Thy loving-kindness. PM#156 p249, BP.125

One of the created phenomena is the dream. Behold how many secrets have been deposited therein, how many wisdoms treasured up, how many worlds concealed.... Consider the difference between these two worlds, and the mysteries they conceal, that, attended by divine confirmations, thou mayest attain unto heavenly discoveries and enter the realms of holiness.... God, the Most High, hath placed these signs in men so that veiled minds might not deny the mysteries of the life beyond, nor belittle that which hath been promised them. CDB#2.66-68 (was SV.32)

In every glorious and divine Dispensation, His inspiration sheddeth its radiance upon all. For some this occurreth in dreams, and for others while awake. MA8.025 (From a Tablet of Baha'u'llah, in a compilation on dreams, Oct. 1978) TA00049

Moreover, thou hast asked about the dream state. It is a special world among the divine worlds that expresseth and indicateth endless things. For example, it is proof of a world wherein a beginning and an end, a first and a last, are not seen, inasmuch as something is observed in a dream now and after a period of years the very same event is witnessed. From one perspective, if it is said to be the world of similitudes ('alam-i-mithal) between the two worlds, this is correct. It is similar to the Kingdom (Malakut)-which some consider to be the world of similitudes-which is between the Dominion (Jabarut) and this mortal world (nasut). In short, wert thou to reflect deeply upon this state, thou wouldst comprehend innumerable mysteries. In like manner, this world denoteth the place of gathering and resurrection after death, for as Luqman said to his son: 'If thou art unable to sleep, thou art unable to die; and if thou art unable to waken after sleep, thou art unable to rise after death.' Just as death is a reality, so is the world of the dream; and just as there is waking after sleep, there is rising after death. Disparities occur in dreams due to the difference of souls and thoughts, and sometimes on account of food and drink. In the visions of holy souls, however, there is no disparity, because these dreams are the same as being awake. O questioner, man is the consummate register and the perfect talisman; he is the register which containeth a similitude of whatsoever hath been created in the heavens and on the earth. When the soul is released from these transitory limitations and illusory conditions, it will traverse all the stages. The greater its freedom, the more strong, steadfast, and true will be its flight. (Baha'u'llah, in AvK1.318-319 and AvK1.242 and La'aliu'l-Hikmat 2:065-066; trans. K. Brown)

When this is purified human hearts are attuned and reflect one another, and thus spiritual emotions are generated. This is like the world of dreams when man is detached from things which are tangible and experienceth those of the spirit. What amazing laws operate, and what remarkable discoveries are made! And it may even be that detailed communications are registered... SWAB#070 p108

Know of a certainty that the dream world is equivalent to the spirit and like unto the sun in its station; nothing hath departed from the body. Nay rather, by its light whatever is in the heavens and the earth may be witnessed.... Verily, God hath created the dream in His servants that they may be assured of the existence of the worlds hereafter and the life everlasting. (the Bab, provisional translation, in AvK1.323)

It often occurreth that man, while in the world of vision, receiveth an inspiration which later cometh to pass in the contingent world. The 'rational soul' of man is the power which discovereth. Wheresoever it is directed it discovereth the hidden mysteries therein, and bringeth to light that which was veiled. Therefore it is possible for man to attain a station wherein future events are disclosed to him. (the Bab, provisional translation, in AvK1.327)

How often it happens that the spirit has a dream in the realm of sleep whose purport comes to be exactly materialized two years hence! Likewise, how often it happens that in the world of dreams the spirit solves a problem that it could not solve in the realm of wakefulness. SAQ#61.2

The mind and thought of man at times discovers certain truths, and this thought and discovery produce definite results and benefits. Such thoughts have a solid foundation. But many things come to mind that are like the waves of the sea of delusion; they bear no fruit and produce no result. In the world of sleep, too, one may have a dream which exactly comes true, while on another occasion one will have a dream which has absolutely no result. SAQ#71.8 (was SAQ.253)

...the perceptions may be keener when man's body is asleep, the flight may be higher, the hearing may be more acute, all the functions are there and yet the body is at a standstill. PUP.243

It often happens that a man in a state of wakefulness has not been able to accomplish the solution of a problem and when he goes to sleep he will reach that solution in a dream.  How often it has happened that he has dreamed even as the prophets have dreamed, of the future, and events which have thus been foreshadowed have come to pass literally. PUP.416

In order to seize the actions of the rational soul, we need the mediation of the body; but the soul can act directly without this intermediary.  Thus, when we sleep the soul sees without the help of the eyes.... It is clear, therefore, that the soul evolves with and without the intervention of the material body.... The body is the horse, the soul is the rider and sometimes the rider moves without a mount. ADP.126-127

...during sleep the human body and the five physical senses ... are passive, all physical forces are inactive. Notwithstanding this, human reality has spiritual life and the spiritual powers are penetrative, and wonderful disclosures are made in both the East and the West, and perchance one may discover some matters which, after a long time become apparent in the physical world. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 88, from a Tablet to Ella Cooper)

That truth is often imparted through dreams no one who is familiar with history, especially religious history, can doubt. At the same time dreams and visions are always coloured and influenced more or less by the mind of the dreamer and we must beware of attaching too much importance to them.... (16 May 1925 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in a compilation on spiritualism, reincarnation, and related subjects)

It is God that takes the souls (of men) at death; and those that die not (He takes) during their sleep: Those on whom He has passed the decree of death, He keeps back (from returning to life), but the rest He sends (to their bodies) for a term appointed. Qur'an 39:42

Sometimes, however, the 'world of Images' ['alam-i-mithal] appears as it really is, without deformation, in the consciousness even of an ordinary man. The most conspicuous case of this is seen in the veridical dream. The 'world of Images' is eternally existent and it is at every moment acting upon human consciousness. But man, on his part, is not usually aware of it while he is awake, because his mind in that state is impeded and distracted by the material forces of the external world. Only when he is asleep, the physical faculties of his mind being in abeyance, can the faculty of imagination operate in the proper way. And veridical dreams are produced. (Izutzu on Ibn 'Arabi, in Sufism and Taoism, p. 13)

That which thou didst witness is the very truth, and it pertaineth to the realm of vision (jahan-i-binish).... An observant traveller passing along a way will certainly recall his discoveries to mind, unless some accident befall him and efface the memory. SWAB#149 p176-177

Know that the Lord of the world, glorified and exalted be He, will take the soul of the believer and cause it to ascend unto the highest heaven. In this station of spiritual glory the souls of the believers will become acquainted with each other in the path which the Lord of the world hath foreordained. They will advance together toward the loftiest stations, and shall not return to the material world until the time when the eternal Will purposeth to return the creation and make the world anew. But in this new world all those called into being are new souls. It is not that a former soul becometh incarnated in another person, or that another individual becometh the soul of a former individual. Nay, rather they correspond with each other through manifestations; that is to say, he will be in the station of his soul, but his soul is not incarnated and the state of the soul does not become embodied.... Understanding the world of souls is impossible in this world of bodies. That world is unlike anything you can conceive in your imagination. In these perishable bodies one cannot perceive the immortal worlds, save through that which ye sometimes behold in a dream. AvK1.308-309; PA00375; BH05340

How often it happens that the spirit has a dream in the realm of sleep whose purport comes to be exactly materialized two years hence! Likewise, how often it happens that in the world of dreams the spirit solves a problem that it could not solve in the realm of wakefulness. Awake, the eye sees only a short distance, but in the realm of dreams one who is in the East may see the West. Awake, he sees only the present; in sleep he beholds the future. Awake, by the fastest means he travels at most seventy miles in an hour; in sleep he traverses East and West in the blink of an eye. For the spirit has two modes of travel: without means, or spiritual travel, and with means, or material travel--as birds that fly, or as being carried in a vehicle. While asleep, this physical body is as dead: It neither sees, nor hears, nor feels, and it has neither consciousness nor perception--its powers are suspended. Yet the spirit is not only alive and enduring but also exerts a greater influence, soars to loftier heights, and possesses a deeper understanding. SAQ#61.2-3 (was SAQ.227-228)

One night, not long ago, I saw him [Mulla Ali-Akbar] in the world of dreams. Although his frame had always been massive, in the dream world he appeared larger and more corpulent than ever. It seemed as if he had returned from a journey. I said to him, "Jinab, you have grown good and stout." (Abdu'l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, p. 12)

It is said that sleep is the brother of death, that thou may know the brother by the likeness of the brother. Thus observe that in the world of dream thou dost witness some things, and after awaking thou dost interpret and explain them in this world by another name, form and description. And then as days go by they are witnessed in a like manner that they were interpreted and explained. Thus O brother, every moment hath itself been from the dream, and in the world of dream thou hast seen such a thing which, had another name and descriptive attribute in the dream, and hath another name and descriptive attribute in this world. Therefore, acknowledge thou likewise, the differenent forms in the world after death and know thou of a certainty that the truth, essence, oneness, form, and descriptive attributes are different. And every time that thou hast not seen this same station with thine own eyes, thou shouldst refer to the interpretation of dream interpreters who possess knowledge and have interpretated every action and word, and have explained every thing. The Most Truthful of Speakers hath given utterance in mentioning Joseph's dream (peace be upon the Lord of our age and upon Him) and hath mentioned Joseph's explanations and interpretations of the two persons mentioned in the Book. Ponder now, what a world is this wherein father and mother are seen as the sun and the moon, and brother viewed as a star? And what a world is this which is seen conversely, inasmuch as the sun and the moon are witnessed as the father and mother, and the star is observed as the brother? (Baha'u'llah, Lawh-i-Haqqu'n-Nas, provisional translation, https://www.scribd.com/document/327913602/Tablet-of-the-Right-of-the-People-Ghassempour-Haqqun-Nas)




This is a rational proof that we are providing, that rational minds may weigh it in the balance of reason and fair-mindedness. But if the human spirit be rejoiced and attracted to the Kingdom, if the inner eye be opened and the spiritual ear attuned, and if spiritual feelings come to predominate, the immortality of the spirit will be seen as clearly as the sun, and heavenly tidings and intimations will encompass that spirit. SAQ#60.7 (was SAQ.225-226)

Philosophy is of two kinds: natural and divine. Natural philosophy seeks knowledge of physical verities and explains material phenomena, whereas divine philosophy deals with ideal verities and phenomena of the spirit. The field and scope of natural philosophy have been greatly enlarged, and its accomplishments are most praiseworthy, for it has served humanity. But according to the evidence of present world conditions divine philosophy--which has for its object the sublimation of human nature, spiritual advancement, heavenly guidance for the development of the human race, attainment to the breaths of the Holy Spirit and knowledge of the verities of God--has been outdistanced and neglected. Now is the time for us to make an effort and enable it to advance apace with the philosophy of material investigation so that awakening of the ideal virtues may progress equally with the unfoldment of the natural powers. In the same proportion that the body of man is developing, the spirit of man must be strengthened; and just as his outer perceptions have been quickened, his inner intellectual powers must be sensitized so that he need not rely wholly upon tradition and human precedent. In divine questions we must not depend entirely upon the heritage of tradition and former human experience; nay, rather, we must exercise reason, analyze and logically examine the facts presented so that confidence will be inspired and faith attained. Then and then only the reality of things will be revealed to us. The philosophers of Greece--such as Aristotle, Socrates, Plato and others--were devoted to the investigation of both natural and spiritual phenomena. In their schools of teaching they discoursed upon the world of nature as well as the supernatural world. Today the philosophy and logic of Aristotle are known throughout the world. Because they were interested in both natural and divine philosophy, furthering the development of the physical world of mankind as well as the intellectual, they rendered praiseworthy service to humanity. This was the reason of the triumph and survival of their teachings and principles. Man should continue both these lines of research and investigation so that all the human virtues, outer and inner, may become possible. The attainment of these virtues, both material and ideal, is conditioned upon intelligent investigation of reality, by which investigation the sublimity of man and his intellectual progress is accomplished. Forms must be set aside and renounced; reality must be sought. PUP.326-327; PUP.328

Numerous and conclusive proofs exist that go to show that this infinite world cannot end with this human life. Forel.14

Know that, although human souls have existed upon the earth for a myriad ages and cycles, the human soul is nonetheless originated. And since it is a sign of God, once it has come into being it is everlasting.... ...the world of man is a world of perfection in relation to that of things. When imperfect things reach the stage of perfection, they become everlasting. This is meant as an example: Seek to grasp the true intent. SAQ#38.5-6 (was SAQ.151)

The divine philosophers proclaim that the spirit of man is ever-living and eternal, and because of the objections of the materialists, these wise men of God have advanced rational proofs to support the validity of their statement.... The proofs are many, innumerable. These are all rational proofs. Nobody can refute them. PUP.240-243

This is a subject of great importance. There are innumerable proofs in support of it. PUP.261

There are many other proofs of the immortality of the spirit of man. These are but a few of them. PUP.308

Furthermore, we must demonstrate that the spirit of man is immortal, that it is not subject to disintegration and that it comprises [one] of the virtues of humanity.  PUP.325

...if the human spirit be rejoiced and attracted to the Kingdom, if the inner eye be opened and the spiritual ear attuned, and if spiritual feelings come to predominate, the immortality of the spirit will be seen as clearly as the sun, and heavenly tidings and intimations will encompass that spirit. SAQ#60.7 (was SAQ.226)

...when we accept the Manifestation of God for our time, we must accept what He says though at the moment we may not comprehend the meaning of some of His statements. Some things, such as Baha'u'llah's Teachings regarding life after death, we have to accept on faith. M63-86 448.6b (14 Apr. 1975 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

The present life of man, O king, seems to me, in comparison of that time which is unknown to us, like to the swift flight of a sparrow through the room wherein you sit at supper in winter, with your commanders and ministers, and a good fire in the midst, whilst the storms of rain and snow prevail abroad; the sparrow, I say, flying in at one door, and immediately out at another, whilst he is within, is safe from the wintry storm; but after a short space of fair weather, he immediately vanishes out of your sight, into the dark winter from which he had emerged. So this life of man appears for a short space, but of what went before, or what is to follow, we are utterly ignorant. If, therefore, this new doctrine contains something more certain, it seems justly to deserve to be followed. (the Venerable Bede)
