



These twofold signs, in the visible and the invisible heaven, have announced the Revelation of each of the Prophets of God, as is commonly believed. KI#074 p062

...before the revelation of each of the Mirrors reflecting the divine Essence, the signs heralding their advent must needs be revealed in the visible heaven as well as in the invisible... KI#073 p066

The breeze of the bounty of the King of creation hath caused even the physical earth to be changed, were ye to ponder in your hearts the mysteries of divine Revelation. KI#050 p047

But as to Him Who appeared in the year sixty, He standeth in need of neither transformation nor interpretation, for His name was Muhammad, and He was a descendent of the Imams of the Faith. Thus it can be truly said of Him that He was the son of Hasan, as is undoubtedly clear and evident unto thine eminence. GDM#050 p038




Then a second epistle was issued, which is contained in the Suriy-i-Haykal, and which in substance says: "O Napoleon! Since thou hast failed to heed and answer My call, thou shalt lose Thy dominion and be reduced to naught." This epistle was dispatched to Napoleon by post, through the care of César Catafago and with the full knowledge of His companions in exile. The text of this address quickly reached all of Persia, for the Kitab-i-Haykal was sent at that time to every corner of that land and this address was included therein. This took place in the year 1869, and as this Suriy-i-Haykal had been circulated throughout Persia and India, all the believers had it in their hands and were awaiting the outcome of this address. Not long after, in 1870, the fire of war was ignited between Germany and France, and although no one at the time anticipated the triumph of Germany, Napoleon was resoundingly defeated, surrendered to his enemies, and saw his glory changed into deepest abasement. SAQ#9.16 (was SAQ.032-033)

It is recorded in the Sacred Scriptures that Christ will return and that His return is conditioned upon the fulfilment of certain signs: When He returns, He will be attended by those signs. ...these signs have inner meanings and should not be taken literally. These meanings have been fully explained in the Kitab-i-Iqan: Refer to it. SAQ#26.1-6 (was SAQ.110-112)

This is the Word which the Son concealed, when to those around Him He said: 'Ye cannot bear it now.' TB.011

When the prophets of God appear upon this earth, their validity is established by means of certain proofs.  One of the proofs is through the fulfillment of former prophecies, the second proofs are their creative words and phrases which salute the hearts of humanity, the third are their deeds and the fourth are their teachings. ADP.043

O friend! Whatsoever hath been announced in the Books hath been revealed and made clear. From every side the signs have been manifested. The Omnipotent One is calling, in this Day, and announcing the appearance of the Supreme Heaven. The world hath been illumined with the splendours of His revelation, yet how few are the eyes that can behold it! TU.3#10

Every proof and prophecy, every manner of evidence, whether based on reason or on the text of the scriptures and traditions, are to be regarded as centered in the persons of Baha'u'llah and the Bab. In them is to be found their complete fulfillment. WOB.127-128 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

The Revelation which, from time immemorial, hath been acclaimed as the Purpose and Promise of all the Prophets of God, and the most cherished Desire of His Messengers, hath now, by virtue of the pervasive Will of the Almighty and at His irresistible bidding, been revealed unto men. The advent of such a Revelation hath been heralded in all the sacred Scriptures. GWB#003 p005

The time foreordained unto the peoples and kindreds of the earth is now come. The promises of God, as recorded in the holy Scriptures, have all been fulfilled. Out of Zion hath gone forth the Law of God, and Jerusalem, and the hills and land thereof, are filled with the glory of His Revelation. GWB#010 p012-013

And all this, when the Day of Resurrection hath been ushered in, and the Trumpet hath been sounded, and all the denizens of earth and heaven have been gathered together, and the Balance hath been appointed, and the Bridge hath been laid, and the Verses have been sent down, and the Sun hath shone forth, and the stars have been blotted out, and the souls have been raised to life, and the breath of the Spirit hath blown, and the angels have been arrayed in ranks, and Paradise hath been brought nigh, and Hell made to blaze! These things have all come to pass, and yet to this day not a single one of these people hath recognized them! GDM#024 p019-020

...certain souls from among the ancients, through the power of detachment, did gain knowledge of certain mysteries of existence and obtained insight into the connections and relations that exist between beings. They became cognizant of certain hidden secrets that lie within the realities of things, and deduced certain future events from the relationships between existences. This cannot be denied - as mentioned in the Kitab-i-Iqan regarding the star that heralded the birth of His Holiness the Spirit [Jesus]. However, no reliance whatsoever can be placed upon the fanciful notions contained in the books of the astrologers. (Abdu'l-Baha, AB03340, provisional translation [Claude 3.5s], AvK1.159-161)

...We have laid bare the divine mysteries and in most explicit language foretold future events, that neither the doubts of the faithless, nor the denials of the froward, nor the whisperings of the heedless may keep back the seekers of truth from the Source of the light of the One true God. TB.241

And if thou say in thine heart, How shall we know the word which the Lord hath not spoken? When a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou shalt not be afraid of him. Deuteronomy 18:21-22
