



Heed not the idle contention of those who maintain that the Book and verses thereof can never be a testimony unto the common people, inasmuch as they neither grasp their meaning nor appreciate their value.... Were it beyond the comprehension of men, how could it have been declared as a universal testimony unto all people?... The understanding of His words and the comprehension of the utterances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise dependent upon human learning. They depend solely upon purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit. KI#232 p210-211

It is incumbent upon thee, by the permission of God, to cleanse the eye of thine heart from the things of the world, that thou mayest realize the infinitude of divine knowledge ('irfan), and mayest behold Truth so clearly that thou wilt need no proof to demonstrate His reality, nor any evidence to bear witness unto His testimony. KI#099 p091

Whoso desireth to fathom the mystery of this 'Mir'aj,' and craveth a drop from this ocean, if the mirror of his heart be already obscured by the dust of these learnings, he must needs cleanse and purify it ere the light of this mystery can be reflected therein. KI#204 p187

A divine Mine only can yield the gems of divine knowledge, and the fragrance of the mystic Flower can be inhaled only in the ideal Garden, and the lilies of ancient wisdom can blossom nowhere except in the city of a stainless heart. KI#211 p191

But, O my brother, when a true seeker determineth to take the step of search in the path leading to the knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must, before all else, cleanse and purify his heart, which is the seat of the revelation of the inner mysteries of God, from the obscuring dust of all acquired knowledge, and the allusions of the embodiments of satanic fancy. He must purge his breast, which is the sanctuary of the abiding love of the Beloved, of every defilement, and sanctify his soul from all that pertaineth to water and clay, from all shadowy and ephemeral attachments. He must so cleanse his heart that no remnant of either love or hate may linger therein, lest that love blindly incline him to error, or that hate repel him away from the truth. KI#213 p192, GWB#125 p264         Commentary on last sentence on behalf of Shoghi Effendi: "We must never take one sentence in the teachings and isolate it from the rest: it does not mean we must not love, but we must reach a spiritual plane where God comes first and great human passions are unable to turn us away from Him.... We must love God, and in this state a general love for all men becomes possible..." UD.457-458, LG#1341, LG#1734 (4 Oct. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

When the channel of the human soul is cleansed of all worldly and impeding attachments, it will unfailingly perceive the breath of the Beloved across immeasurable distances, and will, led by its perfume, attain and enter the City of Certitude. KI#217 p197, GWB#125 p268

With unswerving vision, with pure heart, and sanctified spirit, consider attentively what God hath established as the testimony of guidance for His people in His Book... KI#223 p202

Furthermore, he must endure every tribulation, embody the utmost purity and sanctity, and renounce the love or hatred of all the peoples of the world, lest his love for one thing hinder him from investigating another, or his hatred for something prevent him from discerning its truth. SAQ#10.7 (was SAQ.038)

Verily, I say unto thee, that if for the appearance of that Divine Essence thou desirest to have a definite proof, and indisputable testimony and a strong, convincing evidence, thou must prepare thyself to make thy heart empty and thine eye ready to look only toward the Kingdom of God.  Then, at that time, the radiance of that widespread effulgence will descend upon thee successively... TAB.705

Briefly, good deeds become perfect and complete only after the knowledge of God has been acquired, the love of God has been manifested, and spiritual attractions and goodly motives have been attained. Otherwise, though good deeds be praiseworthy, if they do not spring from the knowledge of God, from the love of God, and from a sincere intention, they will be imperfect. SAQ#84.7 (was SAQ.302)

Behold how the sun shines upon all creation, but only surfaces that are pure and polished can reflect its glory and light. The darkened soul has no portion of the revelation of the glorious effulgence of reality; and the soil of self, unable to take advantage of that light, does not produce growth. PUP.148, Ruhi5.2.6

Capacity, worth (or merit) and ability are necessary, for the clearer and purer the mirror is, the lights of the Sun are more manifest... TAB.444

'If God hath pleased He had surely made all men one people.' His purpose, however, is to enable the pure in spirit and the detached in heart to ascend, by virtue of their own innate powers, unto the shores of the Most Great Ocean, that thereby they who seek the Beauty of the All-Glorious may be distinguished and separated from the wayward and perverse. GWB#029 p071

Wert thou to cleanse the mirror of thy heart from the dust of malice, thou wouldst apprehend the meaning of the symbolic terms revealed by the all-embracing Word of God made manifest in every Dispensation, and wouldst discover the mysteries of divine knowledge. KI#075 p068

A pure heart is as a mirror; cleanse it with the burnish of love and severance from all save God, that the true sun may shine therein and the eternal morning dawn. CDB#2.43 (was SV.21)

To be pure and holy in all things is an attribute of the consecrated soul and a necessary characteristic of the unenslaved mind. The best of perfections is immaculacy and the freeing of oneself from every defect. Once the individual is, in every respect, cleansed and purified, then will he become a focal centre reflecting the Manifest Light.... Chaste eyes enjoy the beatific vision of the Lord and know what this encounter meaneth; a pure sense inhaleth the fragrances that blow from the rose gardens of His grace; a burnished heart will mirror forth the comely face of truth. SWAB#129 p146

The most important thing is to polish the mirrors of hearts in order that they may become illumined and receptive of the divine light.... Therefore, our duty lies in seeking to polish the mirrors of our hearts in order that we shall become reflectors of that light and recipients of the divine bounties which may be fully revealed through them. PUP.014, Ruhi7.1.2

But if you turn the mirror of your spirits heavenwards, the heavenly constellations and the rays of the Sun of Reality will be reflected in your hearts, and the virtues of the Kingdom will be obtained.... May we indeed become mirrors reflecting the heavenly realities, and may we become so pure as to reflect the stars of heaven. PT#54:18-9 p176

Souls are like unto mirrors, and the bounty of God is like unto the sun.  When the mirrors pass beyond all coloring and attain purity and polish, and are confronted with the sun, they will reflect in full perfection its light and glory.  In this condition one should not consider the mirror, but the power of the light of the sun, which hath penetrated the mirror, making it a reflector of the heavenly glory. TAB.019

The heart of man is like a mirror, on which dust collects continuously. To achieve a pure heart, man continuously has to pray to God to purify it. (Fallscheer notes, p.71)

If the mirror of his life is polished from the dross of all desires, the heavenly pictures and star-like images of the kingdom of God will be fully reflected therein. Then will he be given power to translate these celestial forms into his daily life and the lives of many thousands. SW v08#08 p045

When man's soul is rarified and cleansed, spiritual links are established, and from these bonds sensations felt by the heart are produced. The human heart resembleth a mirror. When this is purified human hearts are attuned and reflect one another, and thus spiritual emotions are generated. SWAB#070 p108, SW v14#07 p210

If thou wishest the divine knowledge and recognition, purify thy heart from all beside God, be wholly attracted to the ideal beloved One; search for and choose Him and apply thyself to rational and authoritative arguments. For arguments are a guide to the path and by this the heart will be turned to the Sun of Truth. And when the heart is turned unto the Sun, then the eye will be opened and will recognize the Sun through the Sun itself. Then one will be in no need of arguments, for the Sun is altogether independent, and absolute independence is in need of nothing, and proofs are one of the things of which absolute independence has no need. TAB.168, BWF.383-384

...ask thou of God that the magnet of His love should draw unto thee the knowledge of Him. Once a soul becometh holy in all things, purified, sanctified, the gates of the knowledge of God will open wide before his eyes. SWAB#160 p191

For love of God and spiritual attraction do cleanse and purify the human heart and dress and adorn it with the spotless garment of holiness; and once the heart is entirely attached to the Lord, and bound over to the Blessed Perfection, then will the grace of God be revealed. This love is not of the body but completely of the soul. And those souls whose inner being is lit by the love of God are even as spreading rays of light, and they shine out like stars of holiness in a pure and crystalline sky. For true love, real love, is the love of God, and this is sanctified beyond the notions and imaginings of men. SWAB#174 p202-203, Ruhi7.1.5

We verily behold your actions. If We perceive from them the sweet smelling savor of purity and holiness, We will most certainly bless you. GWB#141 p307

How many an embodiment of heedlessness who came unto Us with purity of heart have We established upon the seat of Our acceptance; and how many an exponent of wisdom have We in all justice consigned to the fire. KA#157

The heart must needs therefore be cleansed from the idle sayings of men, and sanctified from every earthly affection, so that it may discover the hidden meaning of divine inspiration, and become the treasury of the mysteries of divine knowledge.... This is the prime requisite of whosoever treadeth this path... KI#077 p070

Whoso hath known Him shall soar in the immensity of His love, and shall be detached from the world and all that is therein.... Hearken ye to the Call of this wronged One, and magnify ye the name of the one true God, and adorn yourselves with the ornament of His remembrance, and illumine your hearts with the light of His love. This is the key that unlocketh the hearts of men, the burnish that shall cleanse the souls of all beings. GWB#100 p205

Wash your hearts from all earthly defilements, and hasten to enter the Kingdom of your Lord, the Creator of earth and heaven... KA#079, GWB#105 p210

Return, then, and cleave wholly unto God, and cleanse thine heart from the world and all its vanities, and suffer not the love of any stranger to enter and dwell therein. Not until thou dost purify thine heart from every trace of such love can the brightness of the light of God shed its radiance upon it, for to none hath God given more than one heart. This, verily, hath been decreed and written down in His ancient Book. And as the human heart, as fashioned by God, is one and undivided, it behoveth thee to take heed that its affections be, also, one and undivided. Cleave thou, therefore, with the whole affection of thine heart, unto His love, and withdraw it from the love of anyone besides Him, that He may aid thee to immerse thyself in the ocean of His unity, and enable thee to become a true upholder of His oneness. GWB#114 p237; SLH.5#072, cf. Qur'an 33:4: "God has not made for any man two hearts in his (one) body."

Be pure, O people of God, be pure; be righteous, be righteous.... GWB#131 p287

Deliver your souls, O people, from the bondage of self, and purify them from all attachment to anything besides Me. Remembrance of Me cleanseth all things from defilement, could ye but perceive it. GWB#136 p294-295

He hath chosen out of the whole world the hearts of His servants, and made them each a seat for the revelation of His glory. Wherefore, sanctify them from every defilement, that the things for which they were created may be engraven upon them. GWB#136 p297

Sanctify thine heart, that thou mayest remember Me; and purge thine ear, that thou mayest hearken unto My words. GWB#143 p313

Purify, O my God, the hearts of Thy creatures with the power of Thy sovereignty and might, that Thy words may sink deep into them. PM#116 p197

Create in me a pure heart, O my God, and renew a tranquil conscience within me, O my Hope! PM#155 p248 Cf: "Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me." Psalm 51:10 (NIV)

O Son of Spirit! My first counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly and radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient, imperishable and everlasting. AHW#01; Ruhi3.L2

Prefer not your will to Mine, never desire that which I have not desired for you, and approach Me not with lifeless hearts, defiled with worldly desires and cravings. PHW#19

Holy words and pure and goodly deeds ascend unto the heaven of celestial glory. Strive that your deeds may be cleansed from the dust of self and hypocrisy and find favor at the court of glory; for ere long the assayers of mankind shall, in the holy presence of the Adored One, accept naught but absolute virtue and deeds of stainless purity. PHW#68, Ruhi1.1.1 (1st sentence)

It is incumbent upon these servants to cleanse the heart, which is the wellspring of divine treasures, of every marking... CDB#2.08 (was SV.05)

Wherefore must the veils of the satanic self be burned away in the fire of love, that the spirit may be cleansed and refined, and thus may apprehend the station of Him but for Whom the world would not have been created. CDB#2.22 (was SV.11); Ruhi5.2.7

It is early morning, and the reviving winds of the Abha Paradise are blowing over all creation, but they can stir only the pure of heart, and only the pure sense can detect their fragrance. Only the perceiving eye beholdeth the rays of the sun; only the listening ear can hear the singing of the Concourse on high.... Today the soft and holy breathings of the Abha Realm are passing over every land, but only the pure in heart draw nigh and derive a benefit therefrom. SWAB#008 p022

First in a human being's way of life must be purity, then freshness, cleanliness, and independence of spirit. First must the stream bed be cleansed, then may the sweet river waters be led into it. SWAB#129 p146

When once thou hast cleansed the channel of thy spiritual sense from the pollution of this worldly life, then wilt thou breathe in the sweet scents of holiness that blow from the blissful bowers of that heavenly land [lit.: of those worlds]. SWAB#156 p185, earlier translation in TAB.645

Nearness to God is dependent upon purity of the heart and exhilaration of the spirit through the glad tidings of the Kingdom.... The more pure and sanctified the heart of man becomes, the nearer it draws to God, and the light of the Sun of Reality is revealed within it. This light sets hearts aglow with the fire of the love of God, opens in them the doors of knowledge and unseals the divine mysteries so that spiritual discoveries are made possible. PUP.147-148, Ruhi5.3.5

He has endowed us with a power to penetrate the realities of things; but we must be self-abnegating, we must have pure spirits, pure intentions, and strive with heart and soul while in the human world to attain everlasting glory. PUP.187, Ruhi5.2.7

This sincere intent is like unto a magnet attracting the divine confirmations. In the world of being all atoms in existence are centres of attraction for certain things.... Likewise when sincere intent hath been attained and the power of detachment and an eloquent tongue bestowed, these attract mighty confirmations. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, in Four on an Island, p. 98)

It is easy to read the Holy Scriptures, but it is only with a clean heart and a pure mind that one may understand their true meaning. PT#16.8 p056-057

Speaking of getting in touch with the source, he [Shoghi Effendi] said: First, we must have purity of intention; second, we must have detachment; and third, we must have concentration. (Pilgrim notes of Effie Baker, 20 Mar. 1925)

No doubt, the mind when pure and free, becomes inspired. It is well known that there is a spiritual link between pure and chaste minds, and it is that link which has transformed you in such a short time. (Mahmud's Diary, p.16)

Open your hearts that they may be filled; open your souls that the Divine Light may shine therein. Strive, strive to receive the Spirit of Truth. Truth awaits your call. Some with serious ills go from celebrated doctor to celebrated doctor, but they all fail to cure for the power is with the Divine. So it is with your soul. Your heart is pure and the Spirit can enter therein. Cut yourself from the world. Pray in the Greatest Name; then the Breeze of Truth, the Flood of Light will enter your searching soul. There is nothing else to be sought on earth or in the universe. (Words of Abdu'l-Baha to Miss Barney, Oct. 19th to 24th, 1900, Barstow Collection #181)

Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Mat 5:8     Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Luke 18:17     Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart. Psalm 24:3-4

The Self, who can be realized by the pure in heart, who is life, light, truth, space, who gives rise to all works, all desires, all odours, all tastes, who is beyond words, who is joy abiding--this is the Self dwelling in my heart. (Chandogya Upanishad, ch. III, 14.2-3) "That infinite source of the whole universe, the self of all that is, the ocean of pure consciousness -- that is truth. That is the unbounded self -- that thou art." Chhandogya Upanishad

Through the power of concentration, prayer and meditation, and the effects produced, one can, however, feel the direct spiritual guidance of God. Purity of heart is an indispensable condition. (14 Jan. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Compilation on Spiritualism and Reincarnation)

In this glorious Day whatsoever can purge you from defilement and ensure your peace and tranquillity, that indeed is the straight Path, the Path that leadeth unto Me. To be purged from defilement is to be cleansed of that which is injurious to man and detracteth from his high station --among which is to take undue pleasure in one's own words and deeds, notwithstanding their unworthiness. TU.1#09

Sanctified must be the eye if it is to truly recognize Him, and sanctified must be the tongue if it is to befittingly utter His praise. TU.3#04

The soul hath been created for the remembrance of the Friend; safeguard its purity. TU.4#05

Know thou that in the Bayan purification is regarded as the most acceptable means for attaining nearness unto God and as the most meritorious of all deeds. Thus purge thou thine ear that thou mayest hear no mention besides God, and purge thine eye that it behold naught except God, and thy conscience that it perceive naught other than God, and thy tongue that it proclaim nothing but God, and thy hand to write naught but the words of God, and thy knowledge that it comprehend naught except God, and thy heart that it entertain no wish save God, and in like manner purge all thine acts and thy pursuits that thou mayest be nurtured in the paradise of pure love, and perchance mayest attain the presence of Him Whom God shall make manifest... SWB.098, Ruhi4.3.4

O army of God! Whensoever ye behold a person whose entire attention is directed toward the Cause of God; whose only aim is this, to make the Word of God to take effect; who, day and night, with pure intent, is rendering service to the Cause; from whose behaviour not the slightest trace of egotism or private motives is discerned -- who, rather, wandereth distracted in the wilderness of the love of God, and drinketh only from the cup of the knowledge of God, and is utterly engrossed in spreading the sweet savours of God, and is enamoured of the holy verses of the Kingdom of God -- know ye for a certainty that this individual will be supported and reinforced by heaven; that like unto the morning star, he will forever gleam brightly out of the skies of eternal grace. But if he show the slightest taint of selfish desires and self love, his efforts will lead to nothing and he will be destroyed and left hopeless at the last. SWAB#035 p071-072, Ruhi5.2.6 (last sentence)

Cleanse from your hearts the love of worldly things, from your tongues every remembrance except His remembrance, from your entire being whatsoever may deter you from beholding His face, or may tempt you to follow the promptings of your evil and corrupt inclinations. Let God be your fear, O people, and be ye of them that tread the path of righteousness. GWB#128 p275, Ruhi3.1.10 (last sentence)

Thine eye is My trust, suffer not the dust of vain desires to becloud its luster. Thine ear is a sign of My bounty, let not the tumult of unseemly motives turn it away from My Word that encompasseth all creation. Thine heart is My treasury, allow not the treacherous hand of self to rob thee of the pearls which I have treasured therein. Thine hand is a symbol of My loving-kindness, hinder it not from holding fast unto My guarded and hidden Tablets.... GWB#152 p322

Observe how one individual, and he a man of the desert, to outward seeming unknown and of no station--because he showed forth one of the qualities of the pure in heart, was able to deliver this proud sovereign and a great company of others from the dark night of unbelief and guide them into the morning of salvation.... SDC.052

Sincerity is the foundation-stone of faith. That is, a religious individual must disregard his personal desires and seek in whatever way he can wholeheartedly to serve the public interest.... SDC.096

Let God's beloved, each and every one, be the essence of purity, the very life of holiness, so that in every country they may become famed for their sanctity, independence of spirit, and meekness. Let them be cheered by draughts from the eternal cup of love for God, and make merry as they drink from the wine-vaults of Heaven. SWAB#174 p203

The days when idle worship was deemed sufficient are ended. The time is come when naught but the purest motive, supported by deeds of stainless purity, can ascend to the throne of the Most High and be acceptable unto Him. (The Bab, DB.093, Ruhi3a.L19, Ruhi5.1.14)

Live then the days of thy life, that are less than a fleeting moment, with thy mind stainless, thy heart unsullied, thy thoughts pure, and thy nature sanctified, so that, free and content, thou mayest put away this mortal frame, and repair unto the mystic paradise and abide in the eternal kingdom for evermore. PHW#44, Ruhi6.3.17

Make ye then a mighty effort, that the purity and sanctity which, above all else, are cherished by Abdu'l-Baha, shall distinguish the people of Baha; that in every kind of excellence the people of God shall surpass all other human beings; that both outwardly and inwardly they shall prove superior to the rest; that for purity, immaculacy, refinement, and the preservation of health, they shall be leaders in the vanguard of those who know. And that by their freedom from enslavement, their knowledge, their self-control, they shall be first among the pure, the free and the wise. SWAB#129

Such must be the purity of your character and the degree of your renunciation, that the people of the earth may through you recognize and be drawn closer to the heavenly Father who is the Source of purity and grace..... Beseech the Lord your God to grant that no earthly entanglements, no worldly affections, no ephemeral pursuits, may tarnish the purity, or embitter the sweetness, of that grace which flows through you. DB.092-093 (The Bab)

Thou art the daystar of the heavens of My holiness, let not the defilement of the world eclipse thy splendor. Rend asunder the veil of heedlessness, that from behind the clouds thou mayest emerge resplendent and array all things with the apparel of life. PHW#73

...Christ has addressed the world, saying, 'Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven' - that is, men must become pure in heart to know God.... The hearts of all children are of the utmost purity. They are mirrors upon which no dust has fallen. But this purity is on account of weakness and innocence ... whereas the man becomes pure through his strength. Through the power of intelligence he becomes simple; through the great power of reason and understanding and not through the power of weakness he becomes sincere. When he attains to the state of perfection, he will receive these qualities; his heart becomes purified, his spirit enlightened, his soul is sensitized and tender -- all through his great strength. This is the difference between the perfect man and the child. Both have the underlying qualities of simplicity and sincerity -- the child through the power of weakness and the man through the power of strength. PUP.053

First and foremost, one should use every possible means to purge one's heart and motives, otherwise, engaging in any form of enterprise would be futile. It is also essential to abstain from hypocrisy and blind imitation, inasmuch as their foul odour is soon detected by every man of understanding and wisdom.... One can hardly imagine what a great influence genuine love, truthfulness and purity of motives exert on the souls of men. But these traits cannot be acquired by any believer unless he makes a daily effort to gain them... COC#1267 (19 Dec. 1932 from Shoghi Effendi, translated from Persian)

Mind is the forerunner of all actions. All deeds are led by mind, created by mind. If one speaks or acts with a serene mind (or pure thought), happiness follows, as sure as one's shadow. Dhammapada 1.2
