



...the sole and fundamental purpose of all learning, and the toil and labour thereof, is attainment unto, and the recognition of, this station [of 'attainment unto the divine Presence']. KI#153 p145

We have decreed, O people, that the highest and last end of all learning ('ulum) be the recognition (irfan) of Him Who is the Object of all knowledge; and yet, behold how ye have allowed your learning to shut you out, as by a veil, from Him Who is the Dayspring of this Light, through Whom every hidden thing hath been revealed. KA#102, ESW.129, GWB#098 p199

How vast the number of people who are well versed in every science, yet it is their adherence to the holy Word of God which will determine their faith, inasmuch as the fruit of every science is none other than the knowledge of divine precepts and submission unto His good-pleasure. SWB.088

First and foremost among these favors, which the Almighty hath conferred upon man, is the gift of understanding (khirad). His purpose in conferring such a gift is none other except to enable His creature to know and recognize the one true God - exalted be His glory. This gift giveth man the power to discern the truth in all things, leadeth him to that which is right, and helpeth him to discover the secrets of creation. Next in rank, is the power of vision, the chief instrument whereby his understanding can function. The senses of hearing, of the heart, and the like, are similarly to be reckoned among the gifts with which the human body is endowed. Immeasurably exalted is the Almighty Who hath created these powers, and revealed them in the body of man. GWB#095 p194

In this day there is nothing more important than the instruction and study of clear proofs and convincing, heavenly arguments, for therein lie the source of life and the path of salvation.... ('Abdu'l-Baha, Compilation on Deepening #31)

O Lord, help Thou Thy loved ones to acquire knowledge and the sciences and arts, and to unravel the secrets that are treasured up in the inmost reality of all created beings. Make them to hear the hidden truths that are written and embedded in the heart of all that is.... The attainment of the most great guidance is dependent upon knowledge and wisdom, and on being informed as to the mysteries of the Holy Words. Wherefore must the loved ones of God ... each one according to his capabilities, strive to acquire the various branches of knowledge, and to increase his understanding of the mysteries of the Holy Books, and his skill in marshaling the divine proofs and evidences. COC#578, BP.103, Ruhi7.2.4 (Abdu'l-Baha)

...if human souls exercise their respective reason and intelligence upon the divine questions, the power of God will dispel every difficulty, and the eternal realities will appear as one light, one truth, one love, one God and a peace that is universal. PUP.079

The intellectual proofs of Divinity are based upon observation and evidence which constitute decisive argument, logically proving the reality of Divinity, the effulgence of mercy, the certainty of inspiration and immortality of the spirit.  This is, in reality, the science of Divinity. PUP.326

In divine questions ... we must exercise reason, analyze and logically examine the facts presented so that confidence will be inspired and faith attained.  Then and then only the reality of things will be revealed to us. PUP.327

If thou wishest the divine knowledge and recognition, purify thy heart from all beside God, be wholly attracted to the ideal beloved One; search for and choose Him and apply thyself to rational and authoritative arguments. For arguments are a guide to the path and by this the heart will be turned to the Sun of Truth. And when the heart is turned unto the Sun, then the eye will be opened and will recognize the Sun through the Sun itself. Then one will be in no need of arguments, for the Sun is altogether independent, and absolute independence is in need of nothing, and proofs are one of the things of which absolute independence has no need. TAB.168, BWF.383-384

Seek always to prove mysteries in the light of the rational mind. ADP.108

God has endowed us with intellects ... that we might become diffusers of light; create love between the hearts; establish communion between the spirits and bring together the people of the east and the west. ADP.182-183

The Heavenly Father gave the precious gift of intelligence to man so that he might become a spiritual light, piercing the darkness of materiality, and bringing goodness and truth into the world. PT#36:10 p113
