



The meaning of the Kingdom (malakut) in its primary sense and degree is the scene of His transcendent glory. In another sense it is the world of similitudes ('alam-i-mithal) which existeth between the Dominion on high (jabarut) and this mortal realm (nasut); whatever is in the heavens or on the earth hath its counterpart in that world. Whilst a thing remaineth hidden and concealed within the power of utterance it is said to be of the Dominion (jabarut), and this is the first stage of its substantiation (taqyid). Whenever it becometh manifest it is said to be of the Kingdom (malakut). The power and potency it deriveth from the first stage, it bestoweth upon whatever lieth below. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tablet to Varqa, in "Relativism: A Basis for Baha'i Metaphysics", MA1.018)

Moreover, thou hast asked about the dream state. It is a special world among the divine worlds that expresseth and indicateth endless things. For example, it is proof of a world wherein a beginning and an end, a first and a last, are not seen, inasmuch as something is observed in a dream now and after a period of years the very same event is witnessed. From one perspective, if it is said to be the world of similitudes ('alam-i-mithal) between the two worlds, this is correct. It is similar to the Kingdom (Malakut)-which some consider to be the world of similitudes-which is between the Dominion (Jabarut) and this mortal world (nasut). In short, wert thou to reflect deeply upon this state, thou wouldst comprehend innumerable mysteries. In like manner, this world denoteth the place of gathering and resurrection after death, for as Luqman said to his son: 'If thou art unable to sleep, thou art unable to die; and if thou art unable to waken after sleep, thou art unable to rise after death.' Just as death is a reality, so is the world of the dream; and just as there is waking after sleep, there is rising after death. Disparities occur in dreams due to the difference of souls and thoughts, and sometimes on account of food and drink. In the visions of holy souls, however, there is no disparity, because these dreams are the same as being awake. O questioner, man is the consummate register and the perfect talisman; he is the register which containeth a similitude of whatsoever hath been created in the heavens and on the earth. When the soul is released from these transitory limitations and illusory conditions, it will traverse all the stages. The greater its freedom, the more strong, steadfast, and true will be its flight. (Baha'u'llah, in AvK1.318-319 and AvK1.242 and La'aliu'l-Hikmat 2:065-066; trans. K. Brown)

Sometimes, however, the 'world of Images' ['alam-i-mithal] appears as it really is, without deformation, in the consciousness even of an ordinary man. The most conspicuous case of this is seen in the veridical dream. The 'world of Images' is eternally existent and it is at every moment acting upon human consciousness. But man, on his part, is not usually aware of it while he is awake, because his mind in that state is impeded and distracted by the material forces of the external world. Only when he is asleep, the physical faculties of his mind being in abeyance, can the faculty of imagination operate in the proper way. And veridical dreams are produced. (Izutzu on Ibn 'Arabi, in Sufism and Taoism, p. 13)

That which thou didst witness is the very truth, and it pertaineth to the realm of vision (jahan-i-binish).... An observant traveller passing along a way will certainly recall his discoveries to mind, unless some accident befall him and efface the memory. SWAB#149 p176-177

...spiritual disclosures are of two kinds. One is the visions of the Prophets and the spiritual disclosures of the chosen ones of God. The visions of the Prophets are not dreams but true spiritual disclosures. Thus when they say, "I saw someone in such a form, and I spoke such words, and he gave such a reply", this vision takes place in a state of wakefulness and not in the realm of sleep. It is a spiritual discovery that is expressed in the form of a vision. SAQ#71.4 (was SAQ.251)

The second faculty of the soul expresses itself in the world of vision, where the soul inhabited by the spirit has its being, and functions without the help of the material bodily senses. There, in the realm of vision, the soul sees without the help of the physical eye, hears without the aid of the physical ear, and travels without dependence upon physical motion. It is, therefore, clear that the spirit in the soul of man can function through the physical body by using the organs of the ordinary senses, and that it is able also to live and act without their aid in the world of vision. PT#28:14 p086

When man desires help and communication from holy souls, he puts himself in a condition of self-unconsciousness and becomes submerged in the sea of meditation, then a spiritual state, which is sanctified from matter and all material things, becomes visible and apparent to him.... Man beholds in the world of vision various images, communicates with them, and receives benefits, and in that world of vision he thinks they are physical temples and material bodies, while they are purely immaterial. (Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 87, from a Tablet to Ella Cooper)

The 'world of Images' ('alam al-mithal) is ontologically an intermediate domain of contact between the purely sensible world and the purely spiritual, i.e. non-material world. It is, as Affifi defines it, 'a really existent world in which are found the forms of the things in a manner that stands between fineness and coarseness, that is, between pure spirituality and pure materiality'. (Izutzu, in Sufism and Taoism, p. 13)

The ancient Sages were alluding to this world when they declared that besides the sensory world there is another world with shape and dimensions also extending in space, but the shape, dimensions, and extent of this other world are not identical with those we perceive in the world of physical bodies, although what exists in the sensory world has it analogue there; it is not a question of sensory dimensions, but of exemplary imaginative dimensions (maqadir mithaliya).... So here we have a threefold universe: an intelligible universe, a sensory universe, and between the two a universe for which it is difficult in our language to find a satisfactory term.... So this is a universe which symbolizes both with corporeal substance, because it possesses shape, dimensions, and extent - and with separated or intelligible substance, because it is essentially made of light (nurani). It is both immaterial matter and the incorporeal corporealized. It is the limit which separates and at the same time unites them. That is why in the speculative theosophy of Sufism this universe is usually called barzakh (screen, limit, interval, interworld). There, among other marvels, are three immense cities, Jabalqa, Jabarsa, Hurqalya [or Havarqalya], peopled by innumerable creatures.... This eighth climate, this world in the subtle state, which includes many degrees, and which is impenetrable by the sensory organs, is the real place of all psycho-spiritual events.... (Corbin, Spiritual Body and Celestial Earth, pp. 78-79. See also A. Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, pp. 50-54, for analysis of the views of Shaykh Ahmad on this subject)

Know that the 'alam-i-mithal is a spiritual universe of luminous substance; on the one hand it has an affinity with material substance, in that it is the object of perception and possesses extent; on the other hand, it has an affinity with separate intelligible substance, in that its nature is that of pure light. It is neither a compound material body, nor a separate intelligible substance, because it is a barzakh, that is, an interworld, a limit, which separates the one from the other. Everything which creates an interval, a barzakh, between two things, must differ from these two things, or rather, it is bound to have two dimensions through each of which it symbolizes with the universe to which this dimension corresponds. One can also say, it is true, that it is a body of light equal in subtlety to the maximum of conceivable subtlety. Thus, it is a limit, an interworld separating the purely subtle separate substances and the dense and opaque material substances, though among the latter also, certain bodies are more subtle than others, as are the Heavens, for instance, compared to the other bodies. (Da'ud Qaysari [d. 1350], in Spiritual Body and Celestial Earth, p. 144)
