



...'we' are third in order counting from God, being made, Plato says, 'from the undivided,' that which is above, 'and from that which is divided in bodies'... Plotinus, Enn.I.1.8, cf. Timaeus 35A

My eternity ('azaliyyih) is My creation, I have created it for thee. Make it the garment of thy temple. My unity (Ahadiyah) is my handiwork; I have wrought it for thee; clothe thyself therewith, that thou mayest be to all eternity the revelation of My everlasting being. AHW#64

We, of the Orient, distinguish between the wholly transcendent Primal Deity, in the Christian sense God the Father, and the Logos (Gospel of St. John), in the Christian sense God the Son, also called Demiurge (in the sense of the Greek philosophers), also called the Primal Will by His Holiness the Bab and designated by the Sufis by the name of tawhid = oneness. (Fallscheer notes, p. 20)

Know that the degrees of existence are finite--the degrees of servitude ['ubudiyyat], of prophethood [nubuwwat], and of Divinity [rububiyyat]--but that the perfections of God and of creation are infinite. SAQ#62.1 (was SAQ.230)

In summary, the Sufis speak only of God and creation, and believe that God has resolved Himself into, and manifested Himself through, the infinite forms of His creation, even as the sea which appears in the infinite forms of its waves. These originated and imperfect waves are identical to the pre-existent Sea, which is the sum of all the divine perfections. The Prophets, however, hold that there are the world of God, the world of the Kingdom, and the world of creation: three things. SAQ#82.17 (was SAQ.295)

Not so among the Prophets who have proven the existence of three worlds; the world of God, the world of Command, and the world of creation.... The world of Command is the station of the Primal Will which is a universal reality that is resolved into infinite forms. It is the Ocean of the Will which is the World of Command. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:141, in A World Faith, pp. 22-23, excerpt here)

Observe also that the three planes represent the world of God, the world of Command, and the world of Creation, which are the sources of the signs. The world of God is the source of Glorious Bounty; the world of Command is the pure and luminous Mirror which depends upon the Sun of Truth; and the world of Creation is the source of the acquisition of Lights. BSC#914 p.479 (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha on the Ringstone Symbol, MA2:102)

But as to the question of Trinity, know, O advancer unto God, that in each one of the cycles wherein the Lights have shone forth upon the horizons, ... there are necessarily three things, the Giver of the Grace, and the Grace, and the Recipient of the Grace; the Source of the Effulgence, and the Effulgence, and the Recipient of the Effulgence; the Illuminator, and the Illumination, and the Illuminated. BSC#816 p.448 (Abdu'l-Baha, Tablet translated by E. G. Browne Nov. 8, 1900, in Tablets from Abdul Beha Abbas to some American Believers in the Year 1900, pp. 8-9)

The inscription upon the Baha'i ringstone is the symbol of the Greatest Name, Baha, who is the Manifestation of the essence of God. It is also symbolic of the three planes representing the World of God, the World of Revelation and the World of Creation. LG#909 (28 Feb. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...the gnostics maintain the existence of only two worlds, the world of God and the world of the creature. The prophets, however, maintained the existence of three worlds: the world of God, the world of the Will or the Word, and the world of created things. The Prophets, therefore, maintained that a knowledge of God is impossible.... There is, therefore, only one way to God and that is through the realization of His Manifestation or Prophet in that age. Christ called the world of the Prophets the Word in the verse of "the Word became flesh" while 'Abdu'l-Baha calls it the Will. Anyhow it is only through these that we can know God. These manifest the divine attributes and therefore by knowing them we can know God. The mystic path that the traveller should follow is therefore to the Prophet. LG#1724, LG#1725 (29 Nov. 1929 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

So we must not go after other first principles but put this [the One] first, and then after it Intellect, that which primarily thinks, and then Soul after Intellect: and we must not posit more principles than these in the intelligible world, or fewer. Plotinus, Enn.II.9.1

Know that things in their act of existence [wujudiyyah] possess three degrees [maratib]: the first degree is Pure Being which is without limit. This the gnostics call the Hidden Ipseity [al-huwiyyat al-ghaybiyyah], the absolutely Hidden [al-ghayb al-mutlaq] and the Essence of Unity [al-dhat al-ahadiyyah].... The second degree is that of existence belonging to something other than the thing itself. It is relative existence conditioned by qualifications that are added to it and qualified by limiting conditions... The third degree is that of the 'Absolute Existence in its deployment' [al-wujud al-munbasit al-mutlaq].... It is, according to the common language of the Sufis, the principle of the Universe, the empyrean of life, the 'throne of the Compassionate', the truth by which things are created and the reality of realities. (Mulla Sadra in the al-Hikmat al-muta'aliyah fi'l-asfar al-arba'ah, cited in Nasr, Islamic Life and Thought, pp. 177-179, quoted here)

In sum the generality of the mystics imagine that existence is limited to two conditions: God [Haqq] and creation. They believe God to be the inner reality of all things and creation to be the outward appearance thereof. The people of Truth, however, recognize three realms of existence: God, Command (which is the Primal Will), and creation. The Primal Will, which is the realm of Command, is the inner reality of all things, and all beings are therefore the manifestations of the Divine Will, not the manifestations of the Divine Essence and Reality itself. "His are the realms of Command and creation." As to the station of the Godhead, it is exalted above and sanctified beyond the understanding of all created things, how much more above resolving itself into their realities! His Holiness the Bab (may my life be a sacrifice unto Him) hath stated that the meaning of the verse "The sea hath ever been the sea, and all contingent things its waves and forms" is fulfilled in the Primal Will, not in the Divine Essence. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:355)

Say, He Whom God shall make manifest is indeed the Primal Veil of God. Above this Veil ye can find nothing other than God, while beneath it ye can discern all things emanating from God. He is the Unseen, the Inaccessible, the Most Exalted, the Best Beloved. SWB.131

All things are dependent on one first cause; and that first cause is dependent on the One and Only. The first cause is moved, that it may come to be first cause of all things; the One alone stands fast, and is not moved. There are these three then,--God, Kosmos, Man. The Kosmos is contained by God, and man is contained by the Kosmos. The Kosmos is son of God; man is son of Kosmos, and grandson, so to speak, of God. (Corpus Hermeticum, Lib. x:14a, p. 197, W. Scott trans.)




Though the worlds of God be infinite, yet some refer to them as four: the world of time, which hath both a beginning and an end; the world of duration, which hath a beginning but whose end is not apparent; the world of primordial reality, whose beginning is not to be seen but which is known to have an end; and the world of eternity, of which neither the beginning nor the end is visible.... Others have called these the worlds of the Heavenly Court (Lahut), of the Celestial Dominion (Jabarut), of the Divine Kingdom (Malakut), and of Mortal Existence (Nasut). CDB#2.51 (was SV.25)

Cast upon this poor and desolate creature, O my Lord, the glance of Thy wealth, and flood his heart with the beams of Thy knowledge, that he may apprehend the verities of the unseen world (Lahut), and discover the mysteries of Thy heavenly realm (Jabarut), and perceive the signs and tokens of Thy kingdom (Malakut), and behold the manifold revelations of this earthy life (Nasut) all set forth before the face of Him Who is the Revealer of Thine own Self. PM#038 p052-053

We, of a certainty, have had no purpose in this earthly realm (mulk) save to make God manifest and to reveal His sovereignty; sufficient unto Me is God for a witness. We, of a certainty, have had no intent in the celestial Kingdom (malakut) but to exalt His Cause and glorify His praise; sufficient unto Me is God for a protector. We, of a certainty, have had no desire in the Dominion on high (jabarut) except to extol God and what hath been sent down by Him; sufficient unto Me is God for a helper. KA#172

This is the Day whereon the unseen world (Lahut) crieth out: 'Great is thy blessedness, O earth (nasut), for thou hast been made the foot-stool of thy God, and been chosen as the seat of His mighty throne.' The realm of glory (Jabarut) exclaimeth: 'Would that my life could be sacrificed for thee...' GWB#014 p030

Now as regards the fourth letter [of Sura 103 of the Qur'an] which is the letter 'ayn, it signifieth the sublimity of the Divine Unicity ('uluw al-ahadiyah) in the realms of Lahut; the sublimity of the Divine Uniqueness ('uluw al-wahidiyah) in the grades of Jabarut; the sublimity of the Divine Mercy in the realms of the dominion (al-mulk) and Malakut; the sublimity of the Divine Perpetuity ('uluw as-samadaniyah) in that God revealed Himself (tajalla Allah) unto all (and) in all in the realities of the 'selves' (fi haqa'iq al-anfus) and the 'horizons' (al-afaq - see Qur'an 41:53) in the land of Nasut. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir Surat al-Asr, BSB3:1 pp.40-41, quoted here, and INBA69:41. See also the exordium of the Bab's Tafsir Suratu'l-Kawthar)

On the contrary, all signs in the world of Lahut, Jabarut, Malakut and Mulk are possibilities of the hearts and souls and what hath occurred to their imaginations. (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, in Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah)

O Breakwell, O my dear one! Thou hast quit this earthly world (nasut) and risen upward to the Kingdom (malakut), thou hast reached unto the grace (fayd) of the invisible realm (lahut), and offered thyself at the threshold of its Lord [the Lord of jabarut]. SWAB#158 p187-188

I testify that no sooner had the First Word proceeded, through the potency of Thy will and purpose, out of His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips than the whole creation was revolutionized, and all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred to the depths. Through that Word the realities of all things were shaken, were divided, separated, scattered, combined and reunited, disclosing, in both the contingent world and the heavenly kingdom (`alamu'l-Mulk wa'l-Malakut), entities of a new creation, and revealing, in the unseen realms (`alamu'l-Jabarut ... wa `alamu'l­Lahut), the signs and tokens of Thy unity and oneness (Wahidiyih ... wa Ahadiyih). PM#178 p295-296

Existence is divided into three sorts. The first, that which was - is and shall be. The second was not - but is and shall be. The third is - but at first was not and after shall not be. That which was and is and shall be is God. That which was not, and is and shall be, is man. That which is, but was not and shall not be, is the animal. I hope we shall be like those who really will be. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 28)

In the Sufi world-view, five 'worlds' ('awalim) or five basic planes of Being are distinguished, each one of them representing a Presence or an ontological mode of the absolute Reality in its self-manifestation. (1) The plane of the Essence (dhat), the world of the absolute non-manifestation (al-ghayb al-mutlaq) or the Mystery of Mysteries. (2) The plane of the Attributes and the Names, the Presence of Divinity (uluhiyah). (3) The plane of the Actions, the Presence of Lordship (rububiyah). (4) The plane of Images (amthal) and Imagination (khayal). (5) The plane of the senses and sensible experience (mushahadah). These five planes constitute among themselves an organic whole, the things of a lower plane serving as symbols or images for the things of the higher planes." Sufism and Taoism, p. 11. See also Corbin, Spiritual Body and Celestial Earth, p. 225 and n. 19; Chittick, The Five Divine Presences: From Al-Qunawi to Al-Qaysari, pp. 107ff.]

Know thou that each letter thereof [the Morning Prayer of Imam 'Ali] pertaineth to seven stations that were enjoined by the Imam to Jabir in reference to true recognition. Every one of these stations referreth to the four worlds that are at times referred to as Divinity (Lahut), which is the realm of the heart and the first dharr; Dominion (Jabarut), which is the realm of the intellect and the second dharr; and the Contingent Kingdom (Mulk), which is the realm of the soul as well as the third witnessing spot and the declarative word of Divine Unity; and finally the Kingdom (Malakut), which is the station of testimony as well as the fourth witnessing spot and the world of magnification. Each one of these realms applieth to all the eight rings of the chain of being, as realized by the people of truth. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.117)




...the realm of the Throne of Hahut, the Paradise of ahadiyah. None is capable of expounding even a letter of that verse in that Paradise. This inasmuch as that realm is that of the mystery of endless duration (samadaniyah), the Unique Sonship, the incomparable Israelicity and the resplendent selfhood. Its exoteric aspect is the essence of its esoteric aspect and its esoteric aspect is the essence of its exoteric aspect. It is inappropriate that anyone should attempt to elucidate a single letter of it.... If oceans of Light should surge forth in that realm all who are in the heavens and on earth would assuredly be drowned save a number of the Letters of Manifestation. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in the Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3.1 p.31)




...the realm of the paradise of endless duration (samadiyah), the Throne of Lahut, the snow-white light. It is the realm of 'He is He (Himself) and there is none other save Him.' This Paradise is allotted unto those servants who are established upon the Seat of Glory, who quaff liquid camphor nigh unto the All-Beauteous One and who recite the verses of Light in the Heaven of manifest justice. Thereby are they enraptured and from that 'food' derive comfort. (Baha'u'llah, in the Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3.1 p.31)

As to the attributes and perfections ... that we ascribe to that Divine Reality (haqiqat Lahutiyyih), these are the signs that reflect the existence of beings in the visible plane and not the absolute perfections of the Divine Essence that cannot be comprehended. Forel.17

And as for "the Divine Soul" (an-nafs al-ilahiyyah), it consists of the Universal Reality which brings together all of the Divine realities of the realm of Primal Manifestation (lahutiyyah) and the eternal secrets, the outer aspect of which is the ancient light and the inner aspect is the most mighty and sublime mystery, the Primal Point from which appear all things and to which they revert, from which they originate and to which they return. Thus is it the Primal Oneness (al-ahadiyyah) in its essence and the derived Oneness (al-wahidiyyah) in its attributes. And from it there appears plurality through manifestation [is manifested plurality, zuhur] and illumination, and it becomes divided, dispersed and manifold, and radiates . And so the horizons and souls become filled and illumined by it on the Day of the Covenant, and on account of it the tabernacles of unity tremble and are set in motion. From it there grow the branches of the tree of oneness and by it they are clothed in the primal garment and the most perfect light. And from a single sign (ayah) from it there appear all of the (Divine) names to which human realities can attain and from a mark (simah) from it there grow forth all of the true hidden (Divine) attributes. And so it is the centre of the circle of existence through the manifestation [zuhur] of "There is no god but God" and the axis of the sphere of eternity, around which circles the star of oneness and unity, such that all of the hidden realities circle around this point of oneness in the realm of Primal Manifestation (an-nuqtah al-ahadiyyah al-lahutiyyah) and all of the subtle luminous essences (kaynunat) derive from this flame which is kindled, ablaze and speaking forth in the tree of humanity saying: "There is no god but He, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Eternal." This Soul consists of the reality of the sanctified persons and true thrones -- the horsemen of human intelligence can never gallop in this pasture nor can the birds of the mind of creatures travel in this land. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.099-117, MKT1:096-097)

As for the fifth stage [of love], it is that spiritual attraction and that ecstatic love of the lovers of the Beauteous One for the beauty within their own self. This is to be counted as a station and a stage of Affection from the state of unification towards unification because this station is created from Divine [Lahuti] elements and has come into being from Heavenly [rabbani] subtleties. The Angelic [Malakuti] Realities and the Empyrean [Jabaruti] Quiddities have no portion from this breeze of the Paradise of Unity and this fragrance of the rose-garden of Ipseity... ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.18, MKT2:020)

...some of those who dwell among the sanctified signs consider that the Love of the True One for the creatures is the appearance of the effulgences of the Divinity [Uluhiyyat] and the continuance of the attributes of the Heavenly Realm [Lahutiyyat] in the temples and places of manifestation of the physical world [Nasutiyya]. The Love of the servant for the Absolute is the annihilation of the existence and the passing away of the attributes of the physical world in Heavenly Perpetuation [baqa-yi Lahutiyya] and Divine Manifestations. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.20, MKT2:023. Cf. Ibn 'Arabi: "The (universal) Life which flows through all things is called the 'divine aspect' (lahut) of Being, while each individual locus in which that Spirit (i.e., Life) resides is called the 'human aspect' (nasut). The 'human aspect', too, may be called 'spirit', but only in virtue of that which resides in it." Sufism and Taoism, p. 149)

This power comes from the life infused into things, life which one calls lahut, whereas the recipient to which the spirit gives life is called nasut; and this nasut (which contains the corporeal form) is in its turn considered as a spirit because of that which maintains its existence. (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 69)

Immeasurably exalted is the celestial (Lahuti) Melody above the strivings of human ear to hear or mind (istima' va 'aqul-i-nasut) to grasp its mystery! KI#180 p168

Concerning the Divine Spirit (Ruhu'l-Lahutiyyih), it is the Holy Essence and complete Word, the perfect Sign, the Mystery of Existence and the Reality which is hidden from the eyes of all existence. It is the Supreme Pen and the Soul of Mercy, the Manifestation of the Sun of Truth from the horizon of creation and its Sun in the dawning-place of existence. This is restricted to the Prophets in the world of creation. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:483)

...it is evident that the spirit manifests different aspects and traverses various contrasting and endless grades or stations. It has capacity to become a mirror for the reflection of the manifestation of divine (Lahutiyyih) realities and a point for reflecting perfect divine attributes. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:086)




Know thou that were this servant to wish to interpret this Divine (lahutiyyah) verse in all of the hidden stations and Divine realities and in the stations of Jabarut and Malakut, the existent realities, the seen and unseen worlds, the manifestations of Primal Oneness and the states of conditioned Oneness, the spiritual essences (kaynunat), the foundations of the heart, the stations (masha`ir) of reality and of the soul and that which pertains and is supplementary to this with the most complete exposition and the most perfect explanation, he would be able with the help of God, and His Power and Grace and confirmation. But souls are not able nor do they have the capacity [p. 101] to hear it and understand it. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:100)

...the Paradise of the Divine Unity (wahidiyah), the golden [yellow] land, the depths of Jabarut. It is the realm of 'Thou art He [God] and He [God] is Thou' allotted to those servants who do not cry out except with the permission of God, who act according to His command and ever restrain themselves in accordance with His wisdom... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in the Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3.1 p.31)

My sole purpose in revealing these words is to ... aid thee to enter the realm (Jabarut) of everlasting glory, that thou mayest, by the leave of God, be of them that abide and rule therein.... GWB#114 p238

I am a captive; rid me of my bondage, by the power of Thy might (mashiyyat) and through the force of Thy will (iradih), that I may soar on the wings of detachment towards the loftiest summits of Thy creation (Jabarutu'l-ikhtira'). PM#064 p103

And My purpose in all this was that thou mightest attain My everlasting dominion (Jabarut) and become worthy of My invisible bestowals. PHW#29

And when the soul hath unfolded the wings of the spirit, been attracted by the Joy of God, hath soared to the most exalted horizon, hath sought the most glorious Companion (rafiq al-abha), it doth ascend to the divine station of Jabarut (the realm of Command) and is assisted by an overwhelming and all-conquering power and by the intricate and ancient secret and by the noble and mighty mystery. It becomes aware of the secrets of hidden and invisible realities which consumes in envy the hearts of the mystic knowers. It is imprinted by the rays shining forth from the Sun of Truth and by its effects and comes to resemble its appearance and its light in every state and condition. It ascends to a station that God hath made to be far above the understanding of the minds of men, for this station is created out of the elements of power, strength, might, authority, sovereignty, omnipotence, protection, and freedom and nothing that has limitations or pluralities has any resemblance to it. On the contrary it is the very essence (jawhar) of unity, the substance of singleness and abstraction, the light [p. 96] of lights, the mystery of mysteries, the furthermost tree (Sidrat al-Muntaha), the exalted rank, the all-highest station, the Masjid al-Aqsa (the remotest mosque), and the ultimate goal in the world of creation even though perfections have no beginning nor end to them and are beyond all limitations. Well is it with the one who has entered this holy, noble and mighty station. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:095-096)

The meaning of the Kingdom (malakut) in its primary sense and degree is the scene of His transcendent glory. In another sense it is the world of similitudes ('alam-i-mithal) which existeth between the Dominion on high (jabarut) and this mortal realm (nasut); whatever is in the heavens or on the earth hath its counterpart in that world. Whilst a thing remaineth hidden and concealed within the power of utterance it is said to be of the Dominion (jabarut), and this is the first stage of its substantiation (taqyid). Whenever it becometh manifest it is said to be of the Kingdom (malakut). The power and potency it deriveth from the first stage, it bestoweth upon whatever lieth below. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tablet to Varqa, in "Relativism: A Basis for Baha'i Metaphysics", MA1.018)

In one sense all the events are decreed. The decree itself is a proof of their irrevocability. (But its explanation) will remain, at the present time, hidden in the heaven of Mashiyyat, until such time as it may come forth from the Jabarut-i-mashiyyat to the Malakut-i-bayan and be written down by the Pen of Providence. These limitations of degree and station are due to human conditions and worldly means which have been created from the will of contingent things (mashiyyat-i-imkaniyyih) and unto which they will return. All that is with God and His own Will are and will continue to be sanctified from any condition of limitation. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.062)




Know thou that were this servant to wish to interpret this Divine (lahutiyyah) verse in all of the hidden stations and Divine realities and in the stations of Jabarut and Malakut, the existent realities, the seen and unseen worlds, the manifestations of Primal Oneness and the states of conditioned Oneness, the spiritual essences (kaynunat), the foundations of the heart, the stations (masha`ir) of reality and of the soul and that which pertains and is supplementary to this with the most complete exposition and the most perfect explanation, he would be able with the help of God, and His Power and Grace and confirmation. But souls are not able nor do they have the capacity [p. 101] to hear it and understand it. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:100)

Ordain, O Lord, through Thy most exalted Pen, that which will immortalize our souls in the Realm of glory (Jabarut), will perpetuate our names in Thy Kingdom (Malakut), and safeguard our lives in the treasuries of Thy protection GWB#138 p301

...the souls of Thy servants were stirred up in their longing for Thy Kingdom (Malakut), and the dwellers of Thy realms rushed forth to enter into Thy heavenly dominion (Jabarut). PM#038 p049

...and caused them to bring forth whatsoever had been preordained for them in the Kingdom (Malakut) of Thine irrevocable decree and the Heaven (Jabarut) of Thine immutable purpose.... This is my highest aspiration, mine ardent desire, O Thou Who rulest all things, and in Whose hand is the kingdom of the entire creation (Jabarutu'l-ibda' wa Malakutu'l-ikhtira'). PM#096 p161

...what will make them worthy to abide ... within Thy most exalted kingdom (Malakut) and Thine all-highest dominion (Jabarut). PM#176 p279

...and all the denizens of Thy Kingdom (Malakut) and all the inmates of Thy Tabernacle in the realms above (Jabarut) cried with a great and bitter lamentation. PM#176 p285

I implore Thee by the signs of Thy Kingdom (Malakut) and the mysteries of Thy Dominion (Jabarut) to do with Thy loved ones as becometh Thy bounty... PM#183 p322

pronounced against Him such a judgment as hath provoked the lamentations of the inmates of the Kingdom (Malakut) and of the Realm of Glory (Jabarut), and of such as have circled around the will of God... ESW.154

Know, verily, the heart wherein the least remnant of envy yet lingers, shall never attain My everlasting dominion (Jabarut), nor inhale the sweet savors of holiness breathing from My kingdom (Malakut) of sanctity. PHW#06, Ruhi5.1.14

Then understand what He, glorified be He, hath said: "The Byzantines were overthrown" -- that is to say it [the soul] has overthrown and caused to diminish and fade away "the commanding (Amarih) soul" through the misfortune of the thunderbolts that fell upon it from the realms of the Kingdom (Malakut) and the flaming fire that entered upon it from the repositories of Might and Command (Jabarut). (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:099)

Thy Paradise is My love; thy heavenly home, reunion with Me. Enter therein and tarry not. This is that which hath been destined for thee in Our kingdom above (Malakutu'l-'ala) and Our exalted Dominion (Jabarutu'l-'asna). AHW#06

Know thou that if this servant wisheth to describe this divine sign in its every hidden stage, in its divine reality and its evolution in the stages of Jabarut and Malakut and in the seen and the unseen realms and its heavenly manifestations, its unique conditions and its spiritual entities, and all that pertains thereunto in detail, it is possible for me through the aid and confirmation of God, but men have neither the capacity to hear nor understand. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:100-101)

How can, then, such a man succeed in befittingly extolling the One through a motion of Whose finger all the names and their kingdom (Malakut) were called into being, and all the attributes and their dominion (Jabarut) were created, and Who, through yet another motion of that same finger, hath united the letters B and E (Be) and knit them together, manifesting thereby what the highest thoughts of Thy chosen ones who enjoy near access to Thee are unable to grasp, and what the profoundest wisdom of those of Thy loved ones that are wholly devoted to Thee are powerless to fathom. PM#179 p303, Ruhi6.1.22

...being invested with manifest and transcendent sovereignty, having on his right hand the Kingdom (Malakut) of God and on his left all the power and glory of His everlasting dominion (Jabarut)... GWB#121 p258-259




This power comes from the life infused into things, life which one calls lahut, whereas the recipient to which the spirit gives life is called nasut; and this nasut (which contains the corporeal form) is in its turn considered as a spirit because of that which maintains its existence. (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 69)

...the realm of the Paradise of the Divine Bounty, the crimson land, the golden [yellow] secret, the snow-white mystery and the point of Nasut. In it are the proofs of the Remembrance greatest if you are of those who are informed. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in the Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3.1 p.32)

Immeasurably exalted is the celestial (Lahuti) Melody above the strivings of human ear to hear or mind (istima' va 'aqul-i-nasut) to grasp its mystery! KI#180 p168

In truth, this ephemeral world hath never been, nor is it now, deserving of permanent residence. In one respect, however, it taketh precedence over every other world, for in spite of its transience and its vicissitudes, it hath been ordained by Him Who is the Lord of might and power as the place wherein eternal stations and exalted ranks are to be acquired. (provisional translation, La'ali'u'l-Hikmat 3:371)



