



It behoveth the people of God to be forbearing. They should impart the Word of God according to the hearer's particular measure of understanding and capacity... TB.237

How great the multitude of truths which the garment of words can never contain! How vast the number of such verities as no expression can adequately describe, whose significance can never be unfolded, and to which not even the remotest allusions can be made! How manifold are the truths which must remain unuttered until the appointed time is come! Even as it hath been said: "Not everything that a man knoweth can be disclosed, nor can everything that he can disclose be regarded as timely, nor can every timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity of those who hear it." Of these truths some can be disclosed only to the extent of the capacity of the repositories of the light of Our knowledge.. GWB#089 p176 (cf. Hadith of Ja'far as-Sadiq; see Resurrection and Renewal, pp. 56-57; quoted in BB00511)

Follow thou the way of thy Lord, and say not that which the ears cannot bear to hear, for such speech is like luscious food given to small children. However palatable, rare and rich the food may be, it cannot be assimilated by the digestive organs of a suckling child. Therefore unto every one who hath a right, let his settled measure be given. 'Not everything that a man knoweth can be disclosed, nor can everything that he can disclose be regarded as timely, nor can every timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity of those who hear it.' Such is the consummate wisdom to be observed in thy pursuits. Be not oblivious thereof, if thou wishest to be a man of action under all conditions. First diagnose the disease and identify the malady, then prescribe the remedy, for such is the perfect method of the skilful physician. SWAB#214 p268-269, Ruhi6.2.6, BB00511

The Cause needs more Baha'i scholars, people who not only are devoted to it and believe in it and are anxious to tell others about it, but also who have a deep grasp of the teachings and their significance, and who can correlate its beliefs with the current thoughts and problems of the people of the world. The Cause has a remedy for all the world's ills. The reason why more people don't accept it is because the Baha'is are not always capable of presenting it to them in a way that meets the immediate needs of their minds. (21 Oct. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Let him consider the degree of his hearer's receptivity, and decide for himself the suitability of either the direct or indirect method of teaching, whereby he can impress upon the seeker the vital importance of the Divine Message, and persuade him to throw in his lot with those who have already embraced it. ADJ#078 p051-052, Ruhi6.3.23

if we but call to mind the practice generally adopted by 'Abdu'l-Baha, we cannot fail to perceive the wisdom, nay the necessity, of gradually and cautiously disclosing to the eyes of an unbelieving world the implications of a Truth which, by its own challenging nature, it is so difficult for it to comprehend and embrace. It was He, our beloved 'Abdu'l-Baha, our true and shining Exemplar, who with infinite tact and patience, whether in His public utterances or in private converse, adapted the presentation of the fundamentals of the Cause to the varying capacities and the spiritual receptiveness of His hearers. He never hesitated, however, to tear the veil asunder and reveal to the spiritually ripened those challenging verities that set forth in its true light the relationship of this Supreme Revelation with the Dispensations of the past. BA.125

Moderation is indeed highly desirable. Every person who in some degree turneth towards the truth can himself later comprehend most of what he seeketh. However, if at the outset a word is uttered beyond his capacity, he will refuse to hear it and will arise in opposition. COC#1900 (From a Tablet, translated from the Persian)

As the Law of Generosity enacted upon all who are in the heavens and on earth hath been set to the level of their comprehension and rank, know thou that unto the wayfarer who journeys to God and migrates to Him, detaching himself from this transitory abode, seeking to ascend to the eternal home, shall be revealed hidden mysteries and well-guarded truths; The essence of unity and the manifestations of eternal might shall appear to him. And if he arrives at that most exalted station and transcendent home it behooveth him to be entrusted with the treasures of the knowledge of God, and to be the keeper of the pearls of His wisdom. It behooveth the wayfarer to guard this knowledge deposited in the receptacles of enlightened hearts by God the creator of mankind, to protect it as his eyes, and to conceal it in his breast. Were he to reveal one letter of these secrets other than to those who are worthy, he shall have perpetuated three serious crimes. The first is betrayal inasmuch as he hath betrayed God by exposing His mysteries to those unsuited to hear them. The second is injustice inasmuch as he conferred this station upon one who doth not deserve it, and weighed him down with an unbearable load he cannot carry. Therefore the verdict of oppressor hath been pronounced upon such a wayfarer; and what oppression can be greater than this? The third is murder because he misled this wretched one and killed him by killing his faith, inasmuch as he was unable to comprehend this divine knowledge, his feet slipped from whence he had progressed in the Cause of his Origin and Return. Therefore it can truly be said of him that he has been killed, and the punishment for such shall be imposed upon his killer. (provis. trans. from a Tablet of Baha'u'llah, in Safiniy-i-'Irfan, vol. 12, pp. 16-17)

It is unjust for the speaker to utter that which is beyond the capacity of his listeners to comprehend. (Baha'u'llah, from a Tablet)

During this journey through Europe and America, whatever was spoken was in consideration of the capacity, inclination, and attitude of the inhabitants and nations, even to the point that teaching was according to their taste and temperament. It was observed that if proofs and arguments were presented according to the principles of teaching in the East, and if truths and meanings were discussed, it would have absolutely no effect on the listeners. Therefore, the manner and method of teaching was changed. The presentation became focused on issues, teachings, and the foundation of the Cause of God, for the listeners would grasp the meaning and understand, whereas if it were not done in this way, they would not listen at all. For example, if one spoke of proof being the Book, they would not understand at all. In any case, whatever was discussed was according to their disposition and taste. One must consider the capacity of the hearers and speak accordingly. As Rumi says: "To his little child the father speaks in baby-talk, Though his mind may comprehend the geometry of the world." Speech was given according to the capacity, merit and power of understanding of the Western people. For example, in the West if divine teachings are imparted or accounts of the martyrs are given, this has a very powerful effect. The point is that the friends in Western lands must teach in this manner, making their explanations very clear and simple, not dealing with complex divine matters. They should discuss the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, mention His trials and tribulations, describe the afflictions and sufferings of the Bab, speak of the greatness of the Cause, tell of the self-sacrifice and martyrdom of the loved ones of God, discourse on fellowship and love, and associate with the people of the West with the essence of detachment, pure sanctity and holiness, and attraction to the love of God. This is why throughout this journey, in no gathering did I discuss the realities, meanings and mysteries of the divine words or metaphysical questions. All my talks were about teaching the Cause of God. I was in the utmost joy and gladness and was supremely happy. Day and night I was aflame and was like a burning fire. Now here I am silent and still, all these means entirely cut off. No listener, no patient one, no seeker, no questioner. The days pass in vain. (ABU0353, provis. trans. by Claude 3.5 Sonnet)




There is no doubt that the poorer classes should be taught the Cause and given every opportunity to embrace it. More especially in order to demonstrate to people our cardinal lack of prejudice, class prejudice as much as any other kind of prejudice. However, he feels that the great point is to confirm people of true capacity and ability--from whatever social stratum they may be--because the Cause needs now, and will ever-increasingly need, souls of great ability who can bring it before the public at large, administer its ever-growing affairs, and contribute to its advancement in every field. LG#2015 (30 Oct. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The human resources of the Cause are being augmented in two ways. People of capacity are being moved to embrace the Faith, reinforcing the ranks of those who are already serving.... In the year ahead these two complementary processes -- attracting people of capacity and increasing our own abilities -- must be further advanced, stimulating individual action and the harmonious development of a wide range of activities for the promotion of the Faith. Ridvan.1994

It is in intellectual circles such as this that the believers should endeavour to teach, confident that no matter how limited their capacity may be, yet their efforts are continually guided and reinforced from on High. This spirit of confident hope, of cheerful courage, and of undaunted enthusiasm in itself, irrespective of any tangible results which it may procure, can alone ensure the ultimate success of our teaching efforts. COC#1945 (31 Oct. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...the upper classes ... need the right type of people to approach them, and a method that can suit their mentality. Our teaching methods should allow a certain degree of elasticity in establishing contacts with various types of individual seekers. Every inquirer has to be approached from his own angle. Those who are essentially of the mystic type should first be given those teachings of the Cause which emphasize the nature and value of spiritual realities; while those who are practically minded and of a positive type are naturally more ready and inclined to accept the social aspect of the Teachings. But of course, gradually the entire Message, in all its aspects and with the full implications it entails, should be explained to the newcomer. For to be a believer means to accept the Cause in its wholeness, and not to adhere to some of its teachings. However, as already stated, this ought to be done gradually and tactfully. For conversion is after all a slow process. COC#1946 (28 Dec. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The sore athirst are many but the cup-bearers are few. The seekers abound but the teachers are scarce, especially those teachers who associate with people of rank and eminence, who observe wisdom, and who, on every matter, speak with such eloquence as to influence and inspire the heart and soul of the listener. (Abdu'l-Baha, in Risaliy-i-Rahnamay-i-Tabligh, p.127, translation quoted in a letter on behalf of the House of Justice dated 6 Aug. 2009)

...there is another category of diversity which must be built up and without which the Cause will not be able adequately to meet the challenges being thrust upon it. Its membership, regardless of ethnic variety, needs now to embrace increasing numbers of people of capacity, including persons of accomplishment and prominence in the various fields of human endeavor. Enrolling significant numbers of such persons is an indispensable aspect of teaching the masses, an aspect which cannot any longer be neglected and which must be consciously and deliberately incorporated into our teaching work, so as to broaden its base and accelerate the process of entry by troops. Ridvan.1990

It seems what we need now is a more profound and co-ordinated Baha'i scholarship in order to attract such men as you are contacting. The world has -- at least the thinking world -- caught up by now with all the great and universal principles enunciated by Baha'u'llah over 70 years ago, and so of course it does not sound "new" to them. But we know that the deeper teachings, the capacity of His projected World Order to re-create society, are new and dynamic. It is these we must learn to present intelligently and enticingly to such men! COC#510, COC#1858, COC#1966 (3 Jul. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The process of integrating these experts into Baha'i communities as well-grounded believers and tapping their potential as promoters and supporters of the Cause will require patient and loving guidance by Baha'i institutions. A great challenge will be to avoid undue disruption of this process of integration by abandoning such persons to the insensitive attitudes still present in communities not yet broadly diverse or accustomed to dealing with all ranks of society. (18 Apr. 1989 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

The excellent work you are doing in the teaching field, he appreciates very deeply and wishes you to persevere and go on teaching people of importance. Even if they are not always good prospects as far as being converted to the Faith goes, it is very necessary that they should hear of it and be made friendly towards it. COC#1978 (10 Feb. 1951 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As the Baha'i community grows, it will acquire experts in numerous fields--both by Baha'is becoming experts and by experts becoming Baha'is. As these experts bring their knowledge and skill to the service of the community and, even more, as they transform their various disciplines by bringing to bear upon them the light of the Divine Teachings, problem after problem now disrupting society will be answered. (21 August 1977 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, M63-86 p.369)




If a soul calls the people to the Kingdom of God according to the Teachings of Baha'u'llah, there will be many listeners. First, one must teach by deeds; then speak the word! One must become thirsty; then the salubrious Water be offered. No matter how delicious the Water is, one who is not thirsty will not enjoy it. Therefore, make ye an effort, so that the people may become thirsty; then cause them to quaff from the Divine Chalice. SW v04#01 p009 (Abdu'l-Baha, from a Tablet)

The wise are they that speak not unless they obtain a hearing, even as the cup-bearer, who proffereth not his cup till he findeth a seeker... PHW#36

Verily, Thy lovers thirst, O my Lord; lead them to the wellspring of bounty and grace. Verily, they hunger; send down unto them Thy heavenly table. Verily, they are naked; robe them in the garments of learning and knowledge. BP.174-175, Ruhi6.3.31 (Abdu'l-Baha)

...make a special point of praying ardently not only for success in general, but that God may send to you the souls that are ready. There are such souls in every city... COC#1975 (18 Mar. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Shoghi Effendi feels that he can lay down no rule as to when one should introduce the names of the Bab, Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha in one's teaching. Much depends on the temperament and aptitude both of the teacher and the one taught.... We must look to the example of the Master and follow our "Inner Light", adapting our message as best we can to the capacity and "ripeness" of the one we are seeking to teach.... Man's spiritual digestive powers have similar laws to those that govern physical digestion. When people are spiritually hungry and thirsty they must be given wholesome and suitable spiritual food, but if we give too much at a time or too rich food for the digestive powers, it only causes nausea and rejection or malassimilation. COC#1936 (20 Oct. 1925 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

We should never insist on teaching those who are not really ready for the Cause. If a man is not hungry you cannot make him eat. Among the Theosophists there are, no doubt, many receptive souls, but those who are satisfied should be just associated with in a friendly way, but let alone. COC#1965 (23 Jun. 1948 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Let him refrain, at the outset, from insisting on such laws and observances as might impose too severe a strain on the seeker's newly awakened faith, and endeavor to nurse him, patiently, tactfully, and yet determinedly, into full maturity, and aid him to proclaim his unqualified acceptance of whatever has been ordained by Baha'u'llah. Let him, as soon as that stage has been attained, introduce him to the body of his fellow-believers, and seek, through constant fellowship and active participation in the local activities of his community, to enable him to contribute his share to the enrichment of its life, the furtherance of its tasks, the consolidations of its interests, and the coordination of its activities with those of its sister communities. ADJ#078 p052, Ruhi6.3.23

Those who declare themselves as Baha'is should become enchanted with the beauty of the teachings, and touched by the love of Baha'u'llah. The declarants need not know all the proofs, history, laws, and principles of the Faith, but in the process of declaring themselves they must, in addition to catching the spark of faith, become basically informed about the Central Figures of the Faith, as well as the existence of laws they must follow and an administration they must obey. M63-86 18.4, LG#257, Ruhi6.3.27, Ruhi6.3.5 (13 Jul. 1964 from the Universal House of Justice)

...the upper classes ... need the right type of people to approach them, and a method that can suit their mentality. Our teaching methods should allow a certain degree of elasticity in establishing contacts with various types of individual seekers. Every inquirer has to be approached from his own angle. Those who are essentially of the mystic type should first be given those teachings of the Cause which emphasize the nature and value of spiritual realities; while those who are practically minded and of a positive type are naturally more ready and inclined to accept the social aspect of the Teachings. But of course, gradually the entire Message, in all its aspects and with the full implications it entails, should be explained to the newcomer. For to be a believer means to accept the Cause in its wholeness, and not to adhere to some of its teachings. However, as already stated, this ought to be done gradually and tactfully. For conversion is after all a slow process. COC#1946 (28 Dec. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

When enrolling new believers, we must be wise and gentle, and not place so many obstacles in their way that they feel it impossible to accept the Faith. On the other hand, once accorded membership in the community of the followers of Baha'u'llah, it must be brought home to them that they are expected to live up to His teachings, and to show forth the signs of a noble character in conformity with His laws. This can often be done gradually, after the new believer is enrolled. UD.308, LG#242 (25 Jun. 1953 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

He feels you should, in teaching, certainly not start with such a difficult point as abstinence from wine; but when the person wishes to join the Faith he must be told.... COC#1960 (7 Apr. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

In teaching people, when they begin to seriously study the Faith there is no objection to impressing upon them that this message involves great spiritual responsibility, and should not be either accepted or cast aside lightly. But we must be very gentle, tactful and patient, and not administer shocks to people. COC#1962 (14 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The people of the world are submerged in an atmosphere which is the very antithesis, morally, of the Baha'i atmosphere; we must teach them. If we are too strict in the beginning most -- not all -- types will be rebuffed and veer away from what they might otherwise be led to accept. On the other hand, we don't want Baha'is who do not seriously try to live up to the teachings -- we must therefore use great tact and challenge strong souls and lead weak souls. COC#1976 (7 Aug. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As you interest different ones in the Faith, you must be very cautious, and gradually lead them into the Light of Divine Guidance, especially the practices of Baha'i living. Thus you should not be dogmatic about any of the secondary practices of the Faith.... COC#1986 (5 Jun. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




The believers ought to give the Message even to those who do not seem to be ready for it, because they can never judge the real extent to which the Word of God can influence the hearts and minds of the people, even those who appear to lack any power of receptivity to the Teachings. COC#1950 (14 Jan. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




No doubt the majority are not yet able to see its true significance, but they must not be deprived, through our failure in obligation, of the opportunity of hearing of it. And there are many precious souls who are seeking for it and ready to embrace it. COC#1951 (19 Mar. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




...make a special point of praying ardently not only for success in general, but that God may send to you the souls that are ready. There are such souls in every city... COC#1975 (18 Mar. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The beloved Guardian has stressed over and over again, that to effectively teach the Faith, the individual must study deeply, the Divine Word, imbibe Its life-giving waters, and feast upon Its glorious teachings. He should then meditate on the import of the Word, and finding its spiritual depths, pray for guidance and assistance. But most important, after prayer is action. After one has prayed and meditated, he must arise, relying fully on the guidance and confirmation of Baha'u'llah, to teach His Faith. Perseverance in action is essential, just as wisdom and audacity are necessary for effective teaching. The individual must sacrifice all things to this great goal, and then the victories will be won. COC#1995 (30 May 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

He suggests that you pray daily to Baha'u'llah to let you meet a soul receptive to His Message. The power of prayer is very great, and attracts Divine confirmations. COC#1781 (30 Sep. 1951 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
