



...when the spirit and the self of Adam became attached to the material world, they passed from the realm of freedom into the realm of bondage; this condition was perpetuated with each succeeding generation, and this attachment of spirit and self to the material world--which is sin--was inherited by His descendants. This attachment is the serpent which will forever be in the midst of, and at enmity with, the spirits of the descendants of Adam, for attachment to the world has become the cause of the bondage of the spirits. This bondage is that sin which has been transmitted from Adam to His descendants, for it has deprived men of recognizing their essential spirituality and attaining to exalted stations.... This sin in Adam, moreover, is relative to His station: Although this worldly attachment produced substantial results, yet in relation to attachment to the spiritual realm it is nonetheless regarded as a sin, and the truth of the saying, "The good deeds of the righteous are the sins of the near ones" is established. SAQ#30.8-12 (was SAQ.124-126)

It should be remembered in this connection that the one true God is in Himself exalted beyond and above proximity and remoteness. His reality transcendeth such limitations. His relationship to His creatures knoweth no degrees. That some are near and others are far is to be ascribed to the manifestations themselves. GWB#083 p185-186

...all the variations which the wayfarer in the stages of his journey beholdeth in the realms of being proceed from his own vision..... Thus when the wayfarer gazeth only upon the place of appearance--that is, when he considereth only the glass--he seeth yellow and red and white. And so it is that conflict hath prevailed amongst men, and a darksome dust from limited souls hath settled over the world. Others gaze upon the effulgence of the light, while yet others have drunk of the wine of oneness and see naught but the sun itself. As the wayfarers traverse these three differing planes, their understanding and their words differ accordingly, and hence the sign of conflict hath ever appeared on earth. For there are some who dwell on the plane of Divine Unity and speak of that world, and some inhabit the realms of limitation, and some the grades of self, while others are completely veiled. CDB#2.36-42 (was SV.18)

If it be said that all the past [knowledge] was hidden and concealed, and that in the Appearance of the Point of the Bayan ... the hidden countenances of meanings came out unveiled, this is the truth, the indubitable truth. If it be said that all was said in brief and now hath come the Interpreter the Expounder, this also is indubitable truth of that there is no doubt. If it be said that all in this Wondrous Theophany [Zuhur-i badi] hath never existed in the past, this saying is a correct saying, too. For if God, glorified be His Glory, uttereth a Word that all people have uttered in the past, nevertheless that word is a wonderful new creation. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Iqtidarat pp. 87-88, excerpt here)

In summary, certain mystics who have ascended to the heaven of inner meanings consider the archetypes, realities, and potentialities to be pre-existent and unfashioned. Others who have quaffed from the crystal stream of knowledge and wisdom consider the essential natures and realities to be fashioned and originated. This evanescent servant hath cited the statements and arguments of both parties in the fullest possible manner in this treatise. In his own view, however, all these statements, disquisitions, stations, and degrees are complete and faultless from their own perspective. For although that which is contemplated is but one, the perspectives and stations of the mystics differ. Each viewpoint, however, is complete and perfect with respect to the station and degree occupied by the viewer. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.21, MKT2:040-041)

Things are patterned after archetypes, but the nature of the resemblance is different than that between two similar things: we must consider the virtues by which we assert that we are made like, in order that we may discover this one and the same reality which when we possess it as an imitation is virtue, but There, where it exists as an archetype, is not virtue. We should note that there are two kinds of likenesses... Plotinus, Enn.I.2.2 Also: "neither absolute justice nor any other moral absolute is virtue, but a kind of exemplar; virtue is what is derived from it in the soul." Enn.I.2.6

No matter how high the soaring ones fly in the utmost degrees of knowledge and understanding, ... they are but reading letters from the book of their own selves, and reaching only to the brilliant unseen signs that are enshrined in the reality of their own beings, and circling round the centre of their own entities. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:097)

In another connection He saith: "O Sun-like Mirrors! Look ye upon the Sun of Truth. Ye, verily, depend upon it, were ye to perceive it. Ye are all as fishes, moving in the waters of the sea, veiling yourselves therefrom, and yet asking what it is on which ye depend." And likewise, He saith: "I complain unto thee, O Mirror of My generosity, against all the other Mirrors. All look upon Me through their own colors." ESW.160

...one person envisages the Unseen, the Transcendent, the Inaccessible One (God; ghayb-i-mani' la yudrak) in the Person (haykal) of the Manifestation (of God; zuhur) without making any distinction (fasl; or division) or connection (between them; wasl/union). Others there are who recognize the Person (haykal) of the Manifestation as the Appearance of God ([Himself] or theophany, zuhur'u'llah) and consider the commands and prohibitions of the Manifestation to be identical with such as originate with the One True God. These two positions (maqam) are both acceptable before the throne of God. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Jamal, Iqtidarat, pp.218-232; in response to a question put to Baha'u'llah by Persian believers regarding His true station)

As to thy question whether the physical world is subject to any limitations, know thou that the comprehension of this matter dependeth upon the observer himself. In one sense, it is limited; in another, it is exalted beyond all limitations. GWB#082 p162

There are four schools of thought in the world. One school affirmeth that all the visible worlds, from atoms to suns, constitute God Himself and that naught can be seen but Him. Another school claimeth that God is that Essence that must of necessity exist, that His Messengers are the intermediaries between Him and His creatures, and that their mission is to lead humanity unto Him. Yet another school holdeth that the stars were created by the Necessary Being, whilst all other things are their effect and outcome. These things continually appear and disappear, even as the minute creatures that are generated in a pool of water. A further school maintaineth that the Necessary Being hath fashioned Nature through whose effect and agency all things, from atoms to suns, appear and disappear without beginning or end. What need then for an account or reckoning? As the grass groweth with the coming of the rain and vanisheth thereafter, so it is with all things. If the Prophets and the kings have instituted laws and ordinances, the proponents of this school argue, this hath merely been for the sake of preserving the civil order and regulating human society. The Prophets and the kings, however, have acted in different ways: the former have said 'God hath spoken thus' that the people might submit and obey, whilst the latter have resorted to the sword and the cannon. Which of these four schools is approved in the sight of God?"... As to the four schools mentioned above, it is clear and evident that the second standeth closer to righteousness (taqva).... One can, however, provide a justification for the tenets of the other schools, for in a sense all things have been and shall ever remain the manifestations of the names and attributes of God. TU.2#06-09

Whatsoever instilleth assurance into the hearts of men, whatsoever exalteth their station or promoteth their contentment, is acceptable in the sight of God. GWB#101 p206

In this stage, which marketh the beginning of the journey, thou shalt behold divers stations and differing signs, even as was mentioned in connection with the City of Search. All these hold true in their respective planes. It behoveth thine eminence in this station to consider each created thing in its own place, neither abasing nor exalting its true rank. For instance, if thou wert to reduce the unseen world to the realm of creation, this would be an act of sheer blasphemy, and the converse would likewise be the essence of impiety. Wert thou, however, to describe the unseen world and the realm of creation within their own stations, this would be the undoubted truth.... Comprehend, in like manner, every station, sign, and allusion, that thou mayest perceive all things in their own place and consider all matters in their proper light. GDM#088 p063-064

Consider thou the Cause of God: a single word is uttered by the tongue of Him Who is the Manifestation of the One true God -- a word which in itself is one, and hath proceeded from a single source; yet after it hath shone forth, sun-like, above the horizon of the mouth of God, and shed its radiance upon His servants, this word is manifested in each soul in accordance with the particular condition of that soul.... The effulgence of this same divine word assumed in the soul of the accepter the colour of acceptance, and in the soul of the rejecter the colour of rejection, albeit the effulgence in its origin was sanctified from all colours. Consider thou the sun: although it shineth upon all mirrors and glasses with the same effulgence, yet in each glass doth this effulgence acquire the colour of that glass. (From the Lawh-i-Salman) PA00075

We have variously and repeatedly set forth the meaning of every theme, that perchance every soul, whether high or low, may obtain, according to his measure and capacity, his share and portion thereof. Should he be unable to comprehend a certain argument, he may, thus, by referring unto another, attain his purpose. "That all sorts of men may know where to quench their thirst." KI#189 p175

This one sayeth, "Thou art an extremist (ghali)," and the other one sayeth, "Thou art intolerant (qali)." This one adduceth evidence from a word of God, and that one reasoneth by another word of God. But I affirm unto them: Ye both are true and right, on the condition that thou not say unto him, "He is an extremist," and he not say unto thee, "Thou art intolerant." As to thee who art in the lower station, thou verily art created by this verse, and thus thou wouldst not comprehend above it. As to thee who art in the highest station, thou art fashioned by that verse and thou canst understand the station beneath thine existence.... Thus, wert thou to acquire wisdom, thou wouldst not reject anyone because of his limitation, but must foster the growth of all in the palm of thy mercy. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.175-176)

The Primal Will, once it is manifested in this world at the behest of God, speaketh of all things, and by virtue of its speaking thereof, all things are brought into existence. When He revealeth, "I am verily the Mirror of God," a mirror is created in which naught is seen save the Countenance of God. Therefore he [a person] would gaze upon the Bayan, and would always refer to these words, inasmuch as his inmost reality is verily created by this verse. He, therefore, would consider those who fail to believe in those words to be of a lower spiritual station. And he is correct at his own level of existence. Likewise, when He revealeth, "I am verily the first to bow down before God," there would be one whose inmost reality is created in the image of those words. Thus, he would adduce proofs from the Bayan in that manner and gazeth upon him who is above him as he doeth, on account of his inability to comprehend the higher station. For verily his inmost reality is generated beneath the station of the higher one. (The Bab, provisional translation, Panj Sha'n 391, in GOH.175)




...the world of man is supernatural in its relation to the vegetable kingdom, though in reality it is not so. Relatively to the plant, the reality of man, his power of hearing and sight, are all supernatural, and for the plant to comprehend that reality and the nature of the powers of man's mind is impossible. Forel.25




Who is there, O my Lord, that, when Thou revealest the first glimmerings of the signs of Thy transcendent sovereignty and might, hath the power to claim for himself any existence whatever? Existence itself is as nothing when brought face to face with the mighty and manifold wonders of Thine incomparable Self. PM#080 p133-134

In a Tablet Baha'u'llah says that even though absolute being can be attributed only to God we cannot say that other objects have no being.... Compared to God nothing has existence but this does not mean that even stones do not have being. It is speaking relatively. Moreover, God reveals Himself in all things in the sense that He is the source of their being and the Cause of their existence. Without Him all things will shrink down into nothing. This however does not mean that all things are parts of God as the pantheist believes. The pantheist says that only God exists, objects are mere modes of His attributes. Baha'u'llah however says that objects have a separate reality that is created by God. The Master explains these things in the 'Some Answered Questions', especially in one of the last chapters. There are also many Tablets of Baha'u'llah explaining these matters. Most of them, however, have not yet been translated into English. Let us hope that some day this work will be done and the friends will appreciate how Baha'u'llah has solved their problems. LG#1583 (26 Oct. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...things appear through the creative power of God. They are not His manifestations nor the incarnations of His reality.... The purpose of the world of contingency, therefore, is to attain to the station of existence, and this existence is caused by God's infinite divine bounty. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:141, in A World Faith, p. 23)

...existence and non-existence are both relative. If it be said that a certain thing was brought forth from non-existence, the intent is not absolute non-existence; rather, it is meant that the former condition was non-existence in relation to the present one. For absolute non-existence cannot become existence, as it lacks the very capacity to exist. SAQ#80.5 (was SAQ.281)

...nonexistence is only relative and absolute nonexistence inconceivable.... For existence there is neither change nor transformation; existence is ever existence; it can never be translated into nonexistence. It is gradation; a degree below a higher degree is considered as nonexistence. PUP.088-089

...the world of elements cannot be annihilated, because pure existence cannot be annihilated; and what we observe are but transformative modifications in the composition of the essence. ADP.107

...the existence of the mineral is non-existence compared to that of man--since man's body becomes mineral when he physically dies--but the mineral indeed exists within the mineral realm. It is therefore clear that dust is non-existent or has an illusory existence compared to that of man, but that within the mineral realm it exists. SAQ#79.2 (was SAQ.278)

Some define existence as the expression of reality or being and nonexistence as nonbeing, imagining that death is annihilation. This is a mistaken idea, for total annihilation is an impossibility. At most, composition is ever subject to decomposition or disintegration - that is to say, existence implies the grouping of material elements in a form or body, and nonexistence is simply the decomposing of these groupings. This is the law of creation in its endless forms and infinite variety of expression.  PUP.087

Man exists, and the mineral likewise exists, but the existence of the mineral is non-existence in relation to that of man; for when the body of man is destroyed, it becomes dust and mineral, and when dust progresses into the human world, and that inanimate body of matter becomes living, man comes into existence. Though the dust--the mineral--enjoys existence in its own station, yet in relation to man it is non-existence. SAQ#80.5 (was SAQ.281)

No matter how much the mineral has existence and life, yet in comparison to man, is it entirely non-existent and deprived of life. TAB.550

When the reflection or physical bounty of the world of creation is infinite how is it possible to circumscribe the reality, or spiritual bounty, which is the basis of the divine creation?  The spiritual world is so much greater than the physical world that in comparison with it the physical world is non-existent. ADP.168-169

The sophists hold that all existence is illusory, indeed, that each and every being is an absolute illusion that has no existence whatsoever--in other words, that the existence of created things is like a mirage, or like the reflection of an image in water or in a mirror, which is merely an appearance devoid of any basis, foundation, or ascertainable reality. This notion is false, for although the existence of things is an illusion compared to the existence of God, yet in the contingent world it is established, proven, and undeniable. ...although created things have no existence compared to that of God, being instead like a mirage or an image reflected in a mirror, yet in their own degree they exist. SAQ#79.1-3 (was SAQ.278)




...it is clear that this terrestrial globe in its present form did not come into existence all at once, but that this universal existent gradually traversed different stages until it appeared in its present completeness. Universal existences can be likened and compared to particular ones, for both are subject to one natural order, one universal law, and one divine arrangement. For instance, you will find the smallest atoms to be similar in their general structure to the greatest entities in the universe, and it is clear that they have proceeded from one laboratory of might according to one natural order and one universal law, and can therefore be compared to one another. SAQ#47.6 (was SAQ.182)

...earthly and heavenly, material and spiritual, accidental and essential, particular and universal, structure and foundation, appearance and reality and the essence of all things, both inward and outward - all of these are connected with one another and are interrelated in such a manner that you will find that drops are patterned after seas, and that atoms are structured after suns in proportion to their capacities and potentialities. Universal and particular are in reality incidental and relative considerations. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:016)




Hast thou not heard: "No change is there in God's creation"? Hast thou not read: "No change canst thou find in God's mode of dealing"? Hast thou not borne witness to the truth: "No difference wilt thou see in the creation of the God of Mercy"? Yea, by My Lord! They that dwell within this Ocean, they that ride upon this Ark, witness no change in the creation of God and behold no differences upon His earth. GDM#042 p032 (the City of Divine Unity)




Some [of the mystics] have supposed the One true God to be as the ocean, and His creatures as its waves.... In a similar vein, the mystics have likened Him Who is the Sovereign Truth to ink, and all else but Him to letters.... Likewise, they have supposed the Sovereign Truth to be as the number one, and all else but Him as higher numbers; and again they have supposed Him to be as water, and all else but Him as snowflakes.... In fine, they account all things manifestations of the effulgence of the essence of the One true God. 'Effulgence' likewise they have distinguished into three categories -- 'essential', 'accidental', and 'effectual', while the subsistence of all things in the One true God they have accounted 'phenomenal' in nature....         In like manner, they have posited the existence of the 'permanent ideal realities' in the essence of the Godhead, even as a certain learned sage hath said: 'The realities of things subsist in His exalted Being in a nobler fashion; thereafter He causeth them to pour forth' -- for they do not consider that the bestower can lack the thing he is bestowing, maintaining this to be impossible. Ibn-i-'Arabi, indeed, hath composed an extensive treatise on this subject, and the learned sages, as well as the authorities of later times like Sadr-i-Shirazi, Fayd, and others of their ilk, have walked among the pebbles of this same brook trod by Ibn-i-'Arab. Blessed, then, be he who walketh upon the crimson sand-dune on the shore of this great Ocean, a single wave of which hath obliterated whatever shapes and forms had been imagined by the people!...         O Salman! The Pen of the All-Merciful affirmeth that, in this Day, both the defender and upholder of these theories and their repudiator stand in the same degree, inasmuch as the Sun of Truth itself hath dawned, and now shineth forth resplendently from the apex of heaven. Assuredly, then, whoever occupieth himself in the discussion of such matters will remain deprived of recognizing the beauty of the All-Merciful. AvK1.172-175 (Tablet of Salman) PA00075

The writings of the Bab ... represent a complex approach which does not correspond to either monism or dualism... The two concepts of immanence and transcendence are both integral aspects of the Bab's theology that are reconciled and unified in the concept of the Primal Will or the Point. (N. Saiedi, in GOH.189)




Thou hast asked about the spirit and its various stages. The people believe that it is a single reality which is only multiplied in relation to various grades and stations; that is to say, it progresseth from the lowest level to the highest level. It is like the progression of the mineral from the mineral condition to the plane of growth, and like the progression of the plant from the vegetable state to the plane of sensation. When it arriveth in the world of man, it becometh specified and individualized by perfect determinations, and when it receiveth the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, it attaineth unto eternal life.     Although this view is correct, the intention of "spirit" here is existence and life, for existence hath one signification, not multiple significations. Furthermore, existence hath various states, and in each state it hath a different determination, individualization, and particular potentiality. For instance, the mineral, plant, animal, and human states all belong to the domain of existence, and not one of these realities is deprived of that signification. But existence hath a different manifestation, appearance, and condition in each state. Thus, in the stage of the mineral it hath a particular determination which distinguisheth it from other determinations and individualizations. And in the stage of the plant it possesseth certain qualities and manifestations that are unique to the vegetable world, and which are its particular determinations and individualizations. Then in the stage of the animal it manifesteth different properties and perfections that distinguish it from the other kingdoms. Finally, in the stage of man existence revealeth itself and shineth forth with the utmost power conceivable in the world of creation. In brief, existence hath one signification, but its manifestations, appearances, and attributes vary in every grade and station.     As for the kinds of spirit, these are fixed realities each having its own specification and individualization, particular perfections and attributes, which distinguish one from another. They differ with respect to their essential qualities and what they signify. The mineral spirit, therefore, cannot be compared to the plant spirit, because the latter is the power of growth. The animal spirit, also, is a specialized reality distinct from all besides itself through its attributes and significations, for it is the power of sense perception and volitional movement. MKT1:219-220, PC00511

...earthly and heavenly, material and spiritual, accidental and essential, particular and universal, structure and foundation, appearance and reality and the essence of all things, both inward and outward - all of these are connected with one another and are interrelated in such a manner that you will find that drops are patterned after seas, and that atoms are structured after suns in proportion to their capacities and potentialities. Universal and particular are in reality incidental and relative considerations. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:016)

One questioned Him about spirit and matter. The Master replied: "This question may be answered in two ways, philosophically as well as spiritually. Philosophically, the answer is easy because in philosophy the spirit is energy and all matter is endowed with energy; and this power is inseparable from matter, as in electricity. In other words, matter is a vehicle for spirit but the transformation of matter does not involve the extinction of that power because transformation and transference are in the properties of matter. Immaterial beings or realities, however, are protected and preserved and their essential power remains unaltered. The manifestation or appearance of the spirit varies due to changes in matter and bodies. This, however, does not mean that spirit itself is subject to extinction." (Mahmud's Diary, 17 Oct. 1912, p.335)         [alternative translation:] One of those present asked about the relationship between spirit and matter. `Abdu'l-Baha replied: 'This question has two answers: one is philosophical and the other is divine. The philosophical answer is easy because in philosophy 'spirit' is defined as a force belonging to every material thing which cannot be dissociated from it. For example, the power of electricity, or to use another expression, the 'spirit of instruments', is material, but through the transformation of matter the destruction of that force is not required, since transformation and transferal are among the concomitants of material things. As for immaterial realities and spirits, they are inviolable and impregnable, for these fundamental powers are eternal, and it is through the transformation of bodies and corporeal forms that the manifestation of spirit is diversified. It is not possible for spirit itself to become annihilated.'

First it must be recognized that philosophers and researchers in the scholarly community have defined "spirit" in different ways. The best, most perfect, and clearest of these is that spirit is an abstract substance separate from matter in essence but not in act. It will not be hidden from the wise that this definition, insofar as it is a definition by negation, fails to elucidate the reality of the essence of the thing described. It is a comprehensive, restrictive definition which, nonetheless, better explains the intent of the word "spirit" than other definitions. It can be known from this definition, for instance, that spirit is different from matter and material things in regard to its essence. Spirit cannot be described by such attributes as ingress and egress, independence and inherence, advance and retreat, movement and stillness. Eyes cannot perceive it, nor can the other senses. Yet it remains in need of matter in all acts, and inseparable from it in all conditions, for it is unimaginable that matter be stripped from it. No act can issue from spirit except through matter, and it is inconceivable that an effect could be produced by spirit save through the instrumentality of matter. (Mirza Abu'l-Fadl, Miracles and Metaphors, pp. 17-18, answering a question on angels)

The spirit is an emanation from God which has shone forth upon all created things, and all beings have a share and a portion thereof. ...the spirit manifests itself in the grades of existence in accordance with the requirements of those grades. In the mineral kingdom, it appears as the power of attraction, which causes these individual constituents to join together. It is the life force of the mineral, because the mineral in its own station is alive and not dead. In the plant kingdom, the power of growth is the vegetable spirit; and in the animal kingdom, the faculty of sense perception is the animal spirit, which results from the mingling and combination of elements; in other words, it is one of the requisites of such mingling and combination....         But according to the convention of the spiritually minded, the spirit which we have been discussing is not spirit, and what they intend by "spirit" is the everlasting spirit, or the life of faith. This is the spirit whereof His Holiness Christ said man must be baptized, and unless he is baptized by this spirit, he shall not enter into the Kingdom of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.186, KHT1.100, AvK1.245; PC00603)

The deniers ask in their disbelief: "Where is that world? For whatsoever hath no actual material existence is sheer imagination." But the truth is that the world of existence is a single world, although its stations are manifold in accordance with the manifold realities of things. For instance, the world of mineral, plant, and animal existence is the same world. Despite this, the animal world in relation to the world of the vegetable is a spiritual reality and another world and abode. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.202)

On Friday, 15 June [1912], I was with the Master alone for a while, and I brought up the name of Percy Grant. "He didn't understand You the other day, my Lord. He thinks that You teach asceticism, that the spirit and the flesh are two separate things." "That is not what I said," the Master replied. "I said that the spiritual man and the materialist were two different beings. The spirit is in the flesh." (Pilgrim notes from "The Diary of Juliet Thompson", p.311)




What is intended by pre-existence [qidam] is temporal [zamani] pre-existence, not essential [dhati] pre-existence, since the former is preceded by a cause. Far exalted be God from being connected with the world of contingency! We testify that that same pre-existence perceived by the devoted and near ones is contingent [hadith] in the eyes of God, that He hath ever been sanctified above terms denoting pre-existence and contingency, that He is holy above mention and explanation... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.028-029)




Indeed, all who have endeavoured to explain the problem of Destiny have advocated either absolute divine determinism or human choice, and thus all the philosophers have confessed their powerlessness to explain the truth of this question. Indeed, this verily is the truth, inasmuch as the philosophers wanted to explain the divine truth, the Middle Path between absolute determinism and absolute freedom, by proofs of reason, which is, however, impossible. For, verily, reason, even in its utmost level of abstraction, is confined to understanding mere limited phenomenona, which fail to guide humans unto the summit of the delight of their heart. Thus, he who abideth upon the throne of the kingdom of reason hath no recourse but to believe in either determinism or absolute freedom. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.211)




...when the heart of the 'knower' becomes strengthened and mounts a step higher, the object of the 'witnessing' becomes visible to the internal, spiritual eye (basirah), though as yet no vision occurs to his physical eye. As the 'knower' goes up to the next degree, the object becomes visible to both his physical eye and his spiritual eye. And if he still goes up and reaches finally the ultimate and highest stage, the one who 'witnesses' and the object 'witnessed' become completely unified. At this stage it is no longer the human heart that 'witnesses' its object; but it is the Absolute itself 'witnessing' itself in itself. And this is the stage of the 'saint' (waliy). (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 260)

At the level of the contingent world, true worship is realized for those who worship God through Him and submerge themselves in the Sea of Absolute Unity. For in that Sea, the worshipper and the words of worship are annihilated, and thus there remaineth naught for the worshipper but the very revelation of God and the pure Countenance of the Beloved.... He who worshippeth God through any one but Him, by gazing at his own self as the Worshipper and at God as the Object of his worship, hath joined partners with God and hath never worshipped Him. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.251-252) http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/diglib/INBA/INBA069.pdf p.205:14

The life of a human being does not exist merely in the sphere of goal-directed verbs. It does not consist merely of activities that have something for their object. "I" perceive something. "I" feel something. "I" imagine something. "I" want something. "I" sense something. "I" think something. The life of a human being does not consist merely of all this and its like. All this and its like is the basis of the realm of "It". But the realm of "Thou" has another basis. Whoever says "Thou" does not have something for his object. For wherever there is something there is also another something; every "It" borders on other "Its"; "It" is only by virtue of bordering on others. But where "Thou" is said there is no something. "Thou" has no borders. (Martin Buber, "I and Thou")

We live in succession, in division, in parts, in particles. Meantime within man is the soul of the whole; the wise silence; the universal beauty, to which every part and particle is equally related, the eternal ONE. And this deep power in which we exist and whose beatitude is all accessible to us, is not only self-sufficing and perfect in every hour, but the act of seeing and the thing seen, the seer and the spectacle, the subject and the object, are one. We see the world piece by piece, as the sun, the moon, the animal, the tree; but the whole, of which these are shining parts, is the soul. (Ralph Waldo Emerson)




The advocates of the doctrine of the unity of existence are joining partners with God by virtue of the testimony of the idea of existence itself. For the "unity" affirmed by them is derivative of the existence of duality; otherwise why would they deny the duality and affirm the unity? Likewise, those who advocate that the cause of the existence of the contingent beings is the Essence of God, and thus believe in some form of relation between the two, are disbelievers. For causation is dependent on the association with the effect, and relation is dependent on the existence of duality, whereas both conditions are utterly false. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.191-192)
