



Some hold that the body is the substance [jawhar] and that it subsists by itself, and that the spirit is an accident which subsists through the substance of the body. The truth, however, is that the rational soul is the substance through which the body subsists. If the accident--the body--is destroyed, the substance--the spirit--remains.... The rational soul--the human spirit--did not descend into this body or subsist through it to begin with, that it should require some substance to depend upon after the constituent parts of the body have decomposed. On the contrary, the rational soul is the substance upon which the body depends. SAQ#66.2-4 (was SAQ.239)




From among the people there was he who held fast unto this statement and, actuated by his own fancies, conceived the idea that the spirit literally penetrateth or entereth into the body... TB.145

They conceive of the body as a vessel and the spirit as its contents, like water and cup, with the water being emptied from one cup and poured into another. This is indeed a childish notion: They do not reflect deeply enough to realize that the spirit is an entirely incorporeal thing, that it does not enter or exit, and that, at most, it is connected with the body as the sun is with the mirror. SAQ#81.11 (was SAQ.287)

...mixing and commingling, entering and exiting, ascending and descending, and penetration are among the properties of bodies, not souls. If a reference to the soul mentioneth "penetration," this referreth not to the reality but is intended metaphorically, for there is a condition in the spiritual world that is sanctified from every conception which can only be expressed in this physical world by such terms as "entering," "penetrating," "mixing," and "commingling." AvK1.187, MKT3:217; PC00503

...separation and union, parting and meeting are things which belong to the material body. The spirit is sanctified from association, departure, nearness, remoteness, connection and separation, for these are of the properties of material bodies and of the characteristics of the elementary [realities].... TAB.708-709, AvK1.239




...each of these aforementioned instruments [the senses] has depended ... for its proper functioning on this rational faculty, which should be regarded as a sign of the revelation of Him Who is the sovereign Lord of all. GWB#083 p164

...the various organs and members, the parts and elements, that constitute the body of man, though at variance, are yet all connected one with the other by that all-unifying agency known as the human soul, that causeth them to function in perfect harmony and with absolute regularity, thus making the continuation of life possible.  The human body, however, is utterly unconscious of that all-unifying agency, and yet acteth with regularity and dischargeth its functions according to its will. Forel.13

It is the mind ('aql) that is the all-unifying agency that so uniteth all the component parts one with the other that each dischargeth its specific function in perfect order, and thereby co-operation and reaction are made possible.... For instance, the hand, the foot, the eye, the ear, the mind, the imagination all help the various parts and members of the human body, but all these interactions are linked by an unseen, all-embracing power, that causeth these interactions to be produced with perfect regularity. This is the inner faculty of man, that is his spirit (ruh) and his mind, both of which are invisible. Forel.21

The mind force (quwwa 'aqilah) - whether we call it pre-existent or contingent - doth direct and co-ordinate all the members of the human body, seeing to it that each part or member duly performeth its own special function. If, however, there be some interruption in the power of the mind, all the members will fail to carry out their essential functions, deficiencies will appear in the body and the functioning of its members, and the power will prove ineffective. SWAB#021 p048

Although the spirit is hidden from view, still its commandments shine out like rays of light upon the world of the human body. SWAB#161 p192

The spirit, or human soul, is the rider; and the body is only the steed. If anything affects the steed, the rider is not affected by it. The spirit may be likened to the light within the lantern. The body is simply the outer lantern. PUP.416

The spirit does not need a body, but the body needs spirit, or it cannot live. The soul can live without a body, but the body without a soul dies. PT#28:16 p086-087

When we speak of the soul we mean the motive power of this physical body which lives under its entire control in accordance with its dictates. ADP.120-121

People who know the truth say that the physical body of man is put into motion by the soul and in the same way man is the vital spark of this world. ADP.128

If body did not exist, soul would not go forth, since there is no place other than body where it is natural for it to be. But if it intends to go forth, it will produce a place for itself, and so a body. Plotinus, Enn.IV.3.9

The body without spirit is not capable of real accomplishment. Although it may be in the utmost condition of beauty and excellence, it is, nevertheless, in need of the spirit. The chimney of the lamp, no matter how polished and perfect it be, is in need of the light. Without the light, the lamp or candle is not illuminating. PUP.205, Ruhi7.3.4




Moreover, it is necessary that the signs of the perfections of the spirit appear in this world, that the realm of creation may bring forth endless fruits, and that this body of the contingent world may receive life and manifest the divine bounties. So, for example, the rays of the sun must shine upon the earth and its heat must nurture all earthly beings; if the rays and heat of the sun were not to reach the earth, it would remain idle and desolate and its development would be arrested. Likewise, were the perfections of the spirit not to appear in this world, it would become dark and wholly animalistic. It is through the appearance of the spirit in the material body that this world is illumined. Just as the spirit of man is the cause of the life of his body, so is the whole world even as a body and man as its spirit. If man did not exist, if the perfections of the spirit were not manifested and the light of the mind were not shining in this world, it would be like a body without a spirit. By another token, this world is even as a tree and man as the fruit; without the fruit the tree would be of no use. SAQ#52.3-4 (was SAQ.200-201)




the body of man, which is composed of the elements, is the most perfect form of composition and combination, the soundest arrangement, the noblest composition, and the most perfect of all existing things. It grows and develops through the animal spirit. SAQ#36.3 (was SAQ.143-144)

As the completeness of man stems entirely from the component elements, their measure, their manner of combination, and the mutual action and interaction of other beings--and since man was produced ten or a hundred thousand years ago from the same earthly elements, with the same measures and quantities, the same manner of composition and combination, and the same interactions with other beings--it follows that man was exactly the same then as exists now. This is a self-evident truth and cannot be doubted. And if a thousand million years hence, the component elements of man are brought together, measured out in the same proportion, combined in the same manner, and subjected to the same interaction with other beings, exactly the same man will come into existence. For example, if a hundred thousand years hence one were to bring together oil, flame, wick, lamp, and a lighter of the lamp--briefly, if all that is needed now be combined then--exactly the same lamp will be produced. SAQ#46.7 (was SAQ.179)

Know that the soul (nafs) which is common to all men cometh forth following the commingling of things and after their maturation, as thou dost observe in the germ: once it hath developed to its predestined stage, God manifesteth the soul that was latent within it.... As to the soul which is intended, in truth it hath been called forth by the Word of God and is such that, if it be kindled with the fire of the love of its Lord, neither the waters of opposition nor the oceans of the world can quench its flame. SLH.2#031

Beyond this, the members, constituent parts, and composition that are found within man attract and act as a magnet for the spirit: The spirit is bound to appear in it. Thus, when a mirror is polished, it is bound to attract the rays of the sun, to be illumined, and to reflect splendid images. That is, when these physical elements are gathered and combined together, according to the natural order and with the utmost perfection, they become a magnet for the spirit, and the spirit will manifest itself therein with all its perfections. From this perspective one does not ask, "Why is it necessary for the rays of the sun to fall upon the mirror?"; for the relationships that bind together the realities of all things, whether spiritual or material, require that when the mirror is polished and turned towards the sun it should manifest the rays thereof. In like manner, when the elements are composed and combined according to the noblest order, arrangement, and manner, the human spirit will appear and manifest itself therein. SAQ#52.5-6 (was SAQ.201)

[see also Enn.IV.3.12: each soul comes down to a body made ready for it according to its resemblance to the soul's disposition. It is carried there to that to which it is made like, one soul to a human being and others to different kinds of animals.]

Likewise the 'rational soul' has a potential existence before its appearance in the human body, and through the mixture of elements and a wonderful combination, according to the natural order, law, conception and birth, it appears with its identity. SW v07#19 p190 (Abdu'l-Baha)




...the spirit encompasses the body and is aware of its sensations and powers. SAQ#40.6 (was SAQ.157)




Some hold that the body is the substance [jawhar] and that it subsists by itself, and that the spirit is an accident which subsists through the substance of the body. The truth, however, is that the rational soul is the substance through which the body subsists. If the accident--the body--is destroyed, the substance--the spirit--remains.... The rational soul--the human spirit--did not descend into this body or subsist through it to begin with, that it should require some substance to depend upon after the constituent parts of the body have decomposed. On the contrary, the rational soul is the substance upon which the body depends. SAQ#66.2-4 (was SAQ.239)

...the body of man is accidental; it is of no importance... PUP.060




...concerning mental faculties, they are in truth of the inherent properties of the soul (ruh), even as the radiation of light is the essential property of the sun.... For the mind ('aql) to manifest itself, the human body must be whole; and a sound mind cannot be but in a sound body, whereas the soul dependeth not upon the body. It is through the power of the soul that the mind comprehendeth, imagineth and exerteth its influence, whilst the soul is a power that is free. The mind comprehendeth the abstract by the aid of the concrete, but the soul hath limitless manifestations of its own. Forel.08

Between the material things and spiritual things there is connection. The more the body is healthful the greater will be the power of the spirit in man; the power of the intellect, the power of the memory, the power of reflection shall be more powerful.... the perfection of the body is the means for the expression of the power of the spirit. (Pilgrim notes of Arthur Agnew, Table Talks at Acca, by Abdul-Baha Abbas, 1907, p. 5)

The sounder the body, the greater is the resplendency and manifestation of the spirit. (Mahmud's Diary, 4 Jun. 1912, p. 122)

...every malady afflicting the body of man is an impediment that preventeth the soul from manifesting its inherent might and power. When it leaveth the body, however, it will evince such ascendancy, and reveal such influence as no force on earth can equal. Every pure, every refined and sanctified soul will be endowed with tremendous power, and shall rejoice with exceeding gladness. GWB#080 p154




The heart is not only a physical organ, it is a step-down transformer of heat, energy and light. In the heart are little pappilla, somewhat similar to those on the tip of the tongue which receive spiritual vibrations and send them on through the sympathetic nervous system. Thus the heart becomes that mysterious link between the world of spirit and matter, which science is beginning to realize. (Copied from notes of F. Mayberry, attributed to an early Tablet by 'Abdu'l-Baha)




It is as if a net immersed in the waters was alive, but unable to make its own that in which it is. The sea is already spread out and the net spreads with it, as far as it can.... And soul's nature is so great, just because it has no size, as to contain the whole of body in one and the same grasp; wherever body extends, there soul is. Plotinus, Enn.IV.3.9




Consider, moreover, how the fruit, ere it is formed, lieth potentially within the tree. Were the tree to be cut into pieces, no sign nor any part of the fruit, however, small, could be detected. When it appeareth, however, it manifesteth itself, as thou hast observed, in its wondrous beauty and glorious perfection. Certain fruits, indeed, attain their fullest development only after being severed from the tree. GWB#080 p155

...the soul is the intermediary between the body and the spirit. In like manner is this tree the intermediary between the seed and the fruit.... When a soul has in it the life of the spirit, then does it bring forth good fruit and become a Divine tree. I wish you to try to understand this example. PT#31:7-8 p098

The existence of the tree within the seed is potential; but when the seed is sown and watered, the signs thereof, its roots and branches, and all of its different qualities, appear. Likewise the 'rational soul' has a potential existence before its appearance in the human body... SW v07#19 p190 (Abdu'l-Baha)




There are five outward material powers in man which are the means of perception--that is, five powers whereby man perceives material things. They are sight, which perceives sensible forms; hearing, which perceives audible sounds; smell, which perceives odours; taste, which perceives edible things; and touch, which is distributed throughout the body and which perceives tactile realities. These five powers perceive external objects. Man has likewise a number of spiritual powers: the power of imagination, which forms a mental image of things; thought, which reflects upon the realities of things; comprehension, which understands these realities; and memory, which retains whatever man has imagined, thought, and understood. The intermediary between these five outward powers and the inward powers is a common faculty [hiss-i-mushtarik; "sensorium"], a sense which mediates between them and which conveys to the inward powers whatever the outward powers have perceived. It is termed the common faculty as it is shared in common between the outward and inward powers. SAQ#56.1-2 (was SAQ.210)

Of interest is the way in which the five external senses subserve the principal internal senses, i.e. the sensus communis, the imagination and memory, which together co-ordinate the 'sensible forms' received through the five senses. In a similar manner, the 'intelligible forms' received by the rational faculty from the Active Intellect are co-ordinated by this faculty. (Majid Fakhry commenting on al-Farabi, Short Introduction p. 43.) See also Suhrawardi in The Book of Radiance, pp. 29-31; Three Muslim Sages, p. 39; History of Muslim Philosophy (1961), vol. 1, pp. 393, 493. Al-Ghazali in The Niche of Lights gives the five inward powers as khayal, wahm, fikr, dhikr, and hifz (pp. 7-8).




First it must be recognized that philosophers and researchers in the scholarly community have defined "spirit" in different ways. The best, most perfect, and clearest of these is that spirit is an abstract substance separate from matter in essence but not in act. It will not be hidden from the wise that this definition, insofar as it is a definition by negation, fails to elucidate the reality of the essence of the thing described. It is a comprehensive, restrictive definition which, nonetheless, better explains the intent of the word "spirit" than other definitions. It can be known from this definition, for instance, that spirit is different from matter and material things in regard to its essence. Spirit cannot be described by such attributes as ingress and egress, independence and inherence, advance and retreat, movement and stillness. Eyes cannot perceive it, nor can the other senses. Yet it remains in need of matter in all acts, and inseparable from it in all conditions, for it is unimaginable that matter be stripped from it. No act can issue from spirit except through matter, and it is inconceivable that an effect could be produced by spirit save through the instrumentality of matter. (Mirza Abu'l-Fadl, Miracles and Metaphors, pp. 17-18, answering a question on angels)

A dear woman present brought up some theories of spiritual causation. Just at that moment they were seving salad. "If all the spirits of the air", laughed 'Abdu'l-Baha, "were to congregate together they could not create a salad! Nevertheless the spirit of man is powerful; for the spirit of man can soar in the firmament of knowledge, can discover realities, can confer life, can receive the divine Glad-Tidings. Is not this greater than making a salad?" DJT.270




The body is the word. The spirit is its meaning. The word passes. The meaning remains. SW v13#04 p.090
