



...endeavour to grasp the significance of 'return,' 'revelation,' and 'resurrection,' as witnessed in the days of the Manifestations of the divine Essence, that thou mayest behold with thine own eyes the 'return' of the holy souls into sanctified and illumined bodies, and mayest wash away the dust of ignorance, and cleanse the darkened self with the waters of mercy flowing from the Source of divine Knowledge KI#160 p151

...in every subsequent Revelation, the return of the former Revelation is a fact, the truth of which is firmly established. Inasmuch as the return of the Prophets of God, as attested by verses and traditions, hath been conclusively demonstrated, the return of their chosen ones also is therefore definitely proven. This return is too manifest in itself to require any evidence or proof. KI#162 p154

Purge thy sight, therefore, from all earthly limitations, that thou mayest behold them all as the bearers of one Name, the exponents of one Cause, the manifestations of one Self, and the revealers of one Truth, and that thou mayest apprehend the mystic 'return' of the Words of God as unfolded by these utterances. KI#170 p159

Now, they asked John the Baptist, "Art thou Elias?" and he answered, "I am not", whereas it is said in the Gospel that John was the promised Elias himself, and Christ clearly stated this as well. If John was Elias, why did he say he was not, and if he was not Elias, why did Christ say he was? The reason is that we consider here not the individuality of the person but the reality of his perfections--that is to say, the very same perfections that Elias possessed were realized in John the Baptist as well. Thus John the Baptist was the promised Elias. What is being considered here is not the essence but the attributes. ...if we consider the individual, it is a different one, but if we consider the attributes and perfections, the same have returned.... This subject is fully and clearly explained in the Kitab-i-Iqan. SAQ#33.5-9 (was SAQ.133-134)

Thou hast asked regarding the subject of the return (al-ma'ad). Know thou that the end is like unto the beginning. Even as thou dost consider the beginning, similarly shouldst thou consider the end, and be of them that truly perceive. Nay, rather consider the beginning as the end itself, and so conversely, that thou mayest acquire a clear perception. Know thou moreover that every created thing is continually brought forth and returned at the bidding of thy Lord, the God of power and might.... TB.183 cf. the Valley of Knowledge: "Nay rather, the denizens of the city of immortality, who dwell in the celestial garden, see not even 'neither first nor last': They fly from all that is first and repulse all that is last. For these have passed over the worlds of names and, swift as lightning, fled beyond the worlds of attributes." CDB#2.30 (was SV.15)

...what the Prophets of God meant by "return" is not the return of the essence but of the attributes; it is not the return of the Manifestation Himself but of His perfections. In the Gospel it is said that John the son of Zacharias is Elijah. By these words is not meant the return of the rational soul and personality of Elijah in the body of John, but rather that the perfections and attributes of Elijah became plain and manifest in him. SAQ#81.14 (was SAQ.288)

But the Spirit of Faith which is of the Kingdom (of God) consists of the all-comprehending Grace and the perfect attainment (or salvation, fruition, achievement) and the power of sanctity and the divine effulgence from the Sun of Truth on luminous light-seeking essences from the presence of the divine Unity. And by this Spirit is the life of the spirit of man, when it is fortified thereby, as Christ saith: "That which is born of the Spirit is Spirit." TAB.116, MKT1:128

Briefly, a return is indeed referred to in the Holy Scriptures, but by this is meant the return of the qualities, conditions, effects, perfections, and inner realities of the lights which recur in every dispensation. The reference is not to specific, individual souls and identities. SWAB#156 p183
