



The form of the seed was sacrificed for the tree, but its perfections were revealed and manifested by virtue of this sacrifice: For the tree, its branches, its leaves, and its blossoms were latent and hidden within the seed, but when the form of the seed was sacrificed, its perfections were fully manifested in the leaves, blossoms, and fruit. SAQ#29.13 (was SAQ.121)

Whatsoever may happen is for the best, because affliction is but the essence of bounty, and sorrow and toil are mercy unalloyed, and anguish is peace of mind, and to make a sacrifice is to receive a gift, and whatsoever may come to pass hath issued from God's grace. SWAB#200 p245

...nearness to God is possible through devotion to Him, through entrance into the Kingdom and service to humanity; it is attained by unity with mankind and through loving-kindness to all; it is dependent upon investigation of truth, acquisition of praiseworthy virtues, service in the cause of universal peace and personal sanctification. In a word, nearness to God necessitates sacrifice of self, severance and the giving up of all to Him. Nearness is likeness. PUP.148, Ruhi7.1.11 (last 2 sentences)

Nor shall the seeker reach his goal unless he sacrifice all things. That is, whatever he hath seen, and heard, and understood--all he must set at naught with "no God is there", that he may enter into the realm of the spirit, which is the city of "but God". Labour is needed, if we are to seek Him; ardour is needed, if we are to drink the nectar of reunion with Him; and if we taste of this cup, we shall cast away the world. CDB#2.12 (was SV.07)

This is the true sacrifice: the offering of oneself, even as did Christ, as a ransom for the life of the world. SWAB#031 p065

Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacrifice, he is bereft of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacrifice is the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the living God may then shine forth.... Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self, and bind yourselves to that Countenance of Splendours; and once ye have reached such heights of servitude, ye will find, gathered within your shadow, all created things. This is boundless grace; this is the highest sovereignty; this is the life that dieth not. All else save this is at the last but manifest perdition and great loss. SWAB#036 p076-077, Ruhi2.1.7, Ruhi5.2.7

With reference to what is meant by an individual becoming entirely forgetful of self: the intent is that he should rise up and sacrifice himself in the true sense, that is, he should obliterate the promptings of the human condition, and rid himself of such characteristics as are worthy of blame and constitute the gloomy darkness of this life on earth--not that he should allow his physical health to deteriorate and his body to become infirm. SWAB#153 p180

But Christ, Who was the Word of God, sacrificed Himself. This has two meanings--an outward meaning and a true meaning. The outward meaning is this: Since Christ intended to promote a Cause that entailed the education of the human race, the quickening of the children of men, and the enlightenment of all humanity, and since promoting such a mighty Cause--a Cause that would antagonize all the peoples of the earth and withstand the opposition of every nation and government--was bound to bring about the spilling of His blood and to lead to His crucifixion and death, therefore at the moment He revealed His mission He offered up His life, welcomed the cross as His throne, regarded every wound as a balm and every poison as sweetest honey, and arose to instruct and guide the people. That is, He sacrificed Himself that He might bestow the spirit of life, and perished in body that He might quicken others in spirit. However, the second meaning of sacrifice is this: Christ was like a seed, and this seed sacrificed its form so that the tree might grow and develop. Although the form of the seed was destroyed, its reality manifested itself, in perfect majesty and beauty, in the outward form of the tree. SAQ#29.10-11 (was SAQ.120-121)

...[when the sword of self is plunged into the fire of the love of God, then] the qualities of the iron, its coldness, darkness, and hardness are concealed, and it manifests heat, luminosity and fluidity, which are the qualities of the fire. (Abdu'l-Baha, in Response, p. 52)

The mystery of sacrifice is that man should sacrifice all his conditions for the divine station of God. The station of God is mercy, kindness, forgiveness, sacrifice, favor, grace and giving life to the spirits and lighting the fire of His love in the hearts and arteries. TAB.065, Ruhi2.2.6, Ruhi3a.L12

The condition of Faith requires that man ascend to and abide in the station of sacrifice. Without this attainment, one's faith is not perfect. The believers must soar toward the summit of self-sacrifice. SW v05#08 p118 (Diary of Ahmad Sohrab, 14 May 1914)

Soon will our handful of days, our vanishing life, be gone, and we shall pass, empty-handed, into the hollow that is dug for those who speak no more; wherefore must we bind our hearts to the manifest Beauty, and cling to the lifeline that faileth never. We must gird ourselves for service, kindle love's flame, and burn away in its heat. We must loose our tongues till we set the wide world's heart afire, and with bright rays of guidance blot out the armies of the night, and then, for His sake, on the field of sacrifice, fling down our lives. SWAB#210 p267

Never forget this; look at one another with the eye of perfection; look at me, follow me, be as I am; take no thought for yourselves or your lives, whether ye eat or whether ye sleep, whether ye are comfortable, whether ye are well or ill, whether ye are with friends or foes, whether ye receive praise or blame; for all these things ye must care not at all. Look at me and be as I am; ye must die to yourselves and to the world, so ye shall be born again and enter the kingdom of heaven. Behold the candle, how it gives light. It weeps its life away drop by drop in order to give forth its flame of light. BSC#969 p.503, Ruhi7.1.11 (Pilgrim notes of May Maxwell, in "An Early Pilgrimage")

Thus I exhort each of you, realizing its power and beauty, to sacrifice all your thoughts, words and actions to bring the knowledge of the Love of God into every heart. PT#27:11 p083, Ruhi7.1.11

It is certain that the Cause of God will envelop the earth, as the Holy Spirit works through those who are serving under sacrifice. The Guardian calls attention continuously to the fact that confirmations come only to those who sacrifice, and the greater the sacrifice, the greater will be the blessings and confirmations. (11 Jun. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Self-sacrifice is a magnet for the confirmations of the Holy Spirit; and therefore if the action is in the realm of self-sacrifice, it is sure to produce results. The friends should be prepared to sacrifice freely for the success of the Faith. When this is done, it will produce results. (6 Feb. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

A third disciple said, "To perform worthy deeds in the Kingdom we must be further self-sacrificing. From now on we should forego ease and bodily comfort, accept every difficulty, forget self and teach the Cause of God." This found acceptance and approval by all the others. PUP.074
