



The Ancient Beauty hath consented to be bound with chains that mankind may be released from its bondage, and hath accepted to be made a prisoner within this most mighty Stronghold that the world may attain unto true liberty. He hath drained to its dregs the cup of sorrow, that all the people of the earth may attain unto abiding joy, and be filled with gladness.... We have accepted to be abased, O believers in the Unity of God, that ye may be exalted, and have suffered manifold afflictions, that ye might prosper and flourish. GWB#045 p099, Ruhi2.2.2, Ruhi6.3.11

Fix your gaze upon Him Who is the temple of God amongst men. He, in truth, hath offered up His life as ransom for the redemption of the world. GWB#146 p315

We, verily, have come for your sakes, and have born the misfortunes of the world for your salvation.... My body hath endured imprisonment that ye may be released from the bondage of self. TB.010, TB.012

His reason for shouldering this heavy load and enduring all this anguish ... was to lead every soul on earth to concord, to fellow-feeling, to oneness; to make known amongst all peoples the sign of the singleness of God, so that at last the primal oneness deposited at the heart of all created things would bear its destined fruit, and the splendour of 'No difference canst thou see in the creation of the God of Mercy,' would cast abroad its rays. SWAB#207 p263

Know thou that when the Son of Man yielded up His breath to God, the whole creation wept with a great weeping. By sacrificing Himself, however, a fresh capacity was infused into all created things. GWB#036 p085

Say: We have accepted to be tried by ills and troubles, that ye may sanctify yourselves from all earthly defilements.... We have sustained the weight of all calamities to sanctify you from all earthly corruption, and ye are yet indifferent. GWB#141 p307

Say: Because He bore injustice, justice hath appeared on earth, and because He accepted abasement, the majesty of God hath shone forth amidst mankind. KA#158

I have accepted to be tried by manifold adversities for no purpose except to regenerate all that are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth. PM#116 p198

He hath come for your salvation, and hath borne tribulations that ye may ascend, by the ladder of utterance, unto the summit of understanding. PUP.078, Ruhi5.3.9




Wert thou to ponder in thine heart the behavior of the Prophets of God thou wouldst assuredly and readily testify that there must needs be other worlds besides this world. The majority of the truly wise and learned have, throughout the ages, as it hath been recorded by the Pen of Glory in the Tablet of Wisdom, borne witness to the truth of that which the holy Writ of God hath revealed.... How could such Souls have consented to surrender themselves unto their enemies if they believed all the worlds of God to have been reduced to this earthly life? Would they have willingly suffered such afflictions and torments as no man hath ever experienced or witnessed? GWB#081 p157-158

...to outward seeming, the human condition of the Holy Manifestations is subjected to tests, and when Their strength and endurance have by this means been revealed in the plenitude of power, other men receive instruction therefrom, and are made aware of how great must be their own steadfastness and endurance under tests and trials. For the Divine Educator must teach by word and also by deed, thus revealing to all the straight pathway of truth. SWAB#026 p056
