



At that hour will the mystic Herald, bearing the joyful tidings of the Spirit, shine forth from the City of God, resplendent as the morn, and, through the trumpet-blast of knowledge, will awaken the heart, the soul, and the spirit from the slumber of negligence. Then will the manifold favors and outpouring grace of the holy and everlasting Spirit confer such new life upon the seeker that he will find himself endowed with a new eye, a new ear, a new heart (qalb), and a new mind (fu'ad). He will contemplate the manifest signs of the universe, and will penetrate the hidden mysteries of the soul. Gazing with the eye of God, he will perceive within every atom a door that leadeth him to the stations of absolute certitude. He will discover in all things the mysteries of Divine Revelation, and the evidences of an everlasting Manifestation. KI#216 p196, GWB#125 p267

Even as Jesus saith: 'Ye must be born again.' [John 3:7] Again He saith: 'Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.' [John 3:5-6] The purport of these words is that whosoever in every dispensation is born of the Spirit and is quickened by the breath of the Manifestation of Holiness, he verily is of those that have attained unto 'life' and 'resurrection'... KI#125 p118

...he is distinguished from the animal by ... capacity to receive the bestowals of Divinity....  Christ has interpreted this station as the second birth... PUP.332

Today the pulsating power in the arteries of the body of the world is the spirit of the Covenant - the spirit which is the cause of life. Whosoever is vivified with this spirit, the freshness and beauty of life become manifest in him, he is baptized with the Holy Spirit, he is born again, is freed from oppression and tyranny, from heedlessness and inclemency which deaden the spirit, and attains to everlasting life. SW v14#07 p225 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The call of the kingdom is like a spirit; it produces a sudden effect in the nerves, arteries, hearts and souls and regenerates the people; baptizes them with Water, Spirit and Fire; the Second Birth will be produced and new people will be raised... (From a Tablet, in Flowers from the Rose Garden of Acca, 1908, p. 37)

I render Thee thanks ... in the name of all them that are dear to Thee, for that Thou hast caused them to be born again, by reason of the living waters which have flowed down out of the mouth of Thy will. PM#033 p042

...man was immersed in darkness and becomes luminous; he was ignorant and becomes informed; he was heedless and becomes aware; he was asleep and is awakened; he was dead and is quickened to life; he was blind and begins to see; he was deaf and begins to hear; he was earthly and becomes heavenly; he was material and becomes spiritual. Through these rewards he is reborn in spirit, is created anew, and becomes the manifestation of the verse in the Gospel that says that the Apostles "were born, not of blood, nor of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God"--that is, they were delivered from the animal characteristics and qualities that are inherent to human nature, and acquired divine attributes, which are the outpouring grace of God. This is the true meaning of being born again. SAQ#60.3 (was SAQ.224)

Let us pray to God that the breath of the Holy Spirit may again give hope and refreshment to the people, awakening in them a desire to do the Will of God. May heart and soul be vivified in every man: so will they all rejoice in a new birth. PT#08:7 p034

The inability of the materialistic mind to grasp the idea of the Life Eternal is no proof of the non-existence of that life. The comprehension of that other life depends on our spiritual birth! PT#29:39 p094

When a man is born into the world of phenomena he finds the universe; when he is born from this world to the world of the spirit, he finds the Kingdom. PT#56:1 p178

Spiritual creation is rebirth, it is supreme guidance, eternal life, universal qualities, the acquirement of the all-inclusive divine perfections, and progress in all the stages of human endowments.... The purpose of the world of contingency, therefore, is to attain to the station of existence, and this existence is caused by God's infinite divine bounty; re-creation and re-birth are progress in the stages of Divine perfections, the training of human capacities and the rising of the light of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:141, in A World Faith, pp. 22-23)

If the angelic aspect becomes more powerful, and the divine power and brightness surround man, then the second birth takes place, and eternal life is found at this point. SW v07#19 p191 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Spiritual creation is rebirth, it is supreme guidance, eternal life, universal qualities, the acquirement of the all-inclusive divine perfections, and progress in all the stages of human endowments. This latter creation is realized as a result of the Manifestations of God in the world of contingency. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:139, in A World Faith)

The Spirit will come to you with increasing force, for your being must become as a Temple in which the Truth of God can dwell.... Your faith comes like rain; the first drops are far between, but soon it will pour in torrents....The knowledge of God rises in the heart like the sun; it mounts, mounts, always casting an immortal Light. You must be re-born by the Spirit. A child in the womb has eyes and ears, but only learns their use when it is born. A man cannot comprehend the Spirit before he has put aside earthly things. ... The Spirit resembles a rivulet when the earth fills the soul. Put away the terrestrial, and the Mighty Torrent of Living Water will rush through your freed body. BC#181 (Words of Abdu'l-Baha to Miss Barney, Oct. 19th to 24th, 1900)

The Hand of Divine bounty proffereth unto you the Water of Life. Hasten and drink your fill. Whoso hath been re-born in this Day, shall never die; whoso remaineth dead, shall never live. GWB#106 p213; TU.1#06

Until man is born again from the world of nature, that is to say, becomes detached from the world of nature, he is essentially an animal, and it is the teachings of God which convert this animal into a human soul. SWAB#227 p304

The Dove of holiness warbleth in the heaven of immortality and admonisheth thee to array thyself with a new vesture, wrought of steel to shield thee from the shafts of doubt concealed in the allusions of men, saying: "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born again." GDM#071 p051-052

In the estimation of God, distinctions of race, divisions of borders, favoring one people over another, and all individual limitations are unworthy and rejected. All the prophets of God were sent down and all the sacred books were revealed for the purpose of assisting man to achieve this heavenly grace and this divine virtue. All the divine teachings can be summarized as this: that these thoughts singling out advantages to one group may be banished from our midst, that human character may be improved, that equality and fellowship may be established amongst all mankind, until every individual is ready to sacrifice himself for the sake of his fellowman. This is the divine foundation. This is the law come down from heaven. Such a firm foundation cannot be impregnated into human consciousness save by one universal and all-pervasive power, for every other power is helpless except for the power of the Holy Spirit. The outpourings of the Holy Spirit are such that they can transform man, imbuing him with all the virtues, bestowing upon him the second birth, baptizing him with the fire of the love of God, which is love for all created things, and quickening him with the water of eternal life, and the Holy Spirit itself. (provisional translation from a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha, http://bahai-library.com/provisionals/tanazu.baqa.html)

And as for spiritual creation, which is the station of rebirth, that is the Most Great Guidance, it is life everlasting, it is the supreme stage of existence, it is the acquisition of heavenly perfections, and the advancement in all the degrees of the blessings of humanity. Such a creation and existence is vouchsafed through the advent of the Manifestations of God in this contingent world. (Provisional translation, AB00538)




The first entrance into light and into belief is extremely difficult. The spiritual birth is troublesome and painful in the same degree as is the physical birth. In reality, the two births are alike. (Pilgrim notes of George Winterburn, Table Talks with Abdul-Baha in February 1904, pp. 6-8)

Before the divine fire enters the soul and becomes one with its depths, the Holy Spirit wounds it, destroying and consuming the imperfections of its evil habits. The soul suffers greatly in this, for in this state of purification the flame does not burn brightly but in darkness, and if it gives any light at all it is only to show up and make the soul experience its own weaknesses and defects. It is not a refreshing, peaceful fire, but a consuming and searching one that makes the soul grieve at the sight of itself. The soul perceives its own smallness in comparison with the immensity of the flame. (St. John of the Cross, The Living Flame of Love, St. 1)
