



Baker's Pocket Dictionary of Religious Terms (Baker Book House, Grand Rapids Michigan) defines "esoteric" as a term based on the custom in the Greek mystery religions to explain advanced doctrines only to the fully initiated. The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary gives "Designed for, or appropriate to, an inner circle of disciples; communicated to, or intelligible by, the initiated only", and in this sense there are no esoteric teachings in the Faith. The message of Baha'u'llah is for all human beings and none of it is for a select circle of initiates. On the other hand, if one is thinking of spiritual truth, the whole Revelation is replete with it and every believer is encouraged, indeed urged, to drink his fill of that water of life. (8 Feb. 1988 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

In this Cause of God there is no secret doctrine or secret society or club or gathering. I want you to be impressed with the importance of this fact that there is no secret doctrine in this Cause at all. (Reported utterance of Abdu'l-Baha, ABU2842, Diary of Ahmad Sohrab 1913-05-13)




...all the Baha'is everywhere have been urged to give up their old affiliations and withdraw from membership in the Masonic and other secret Societies in order to be entirely free to serve the Faith of Baha'u'llah as a united Body. Such groups as Masonry, however high the local standard may be, are in other countries gradually being influenced by the issues sundering the nations at present. LG#1388 (17 Feb. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The following two principles should help to guide your Assembly in dealing with the problems of Baha'i membership in Masonic, Theosophical, Rosicrucian, and similar societies: (1) Formal affiliation with and acceptance of membership in organizations whose programs or policies are not wholly reconcilable with the Teachings is not permissible to the friends. (2) The friends should not become members of secret societies. LG#192 (26 Dec. 1963 from the Universal House of Justice)

The point is not that there is something intrinsically wrong with Masonry, which no doubt has many very high ideals and principles, and has had a very good influence in the past. The reasons why the Guardian feels that it is imperative for the Baha'is to be dissociated from masonry at this time, and I might add, other secret associations, is that we are the building blocks of Baha'u'llah's New World Order... the Baha'is should be absolutely independent, and stand identified only with their own teachings. LG#1389 (12 Feb. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...Generally speaking the friends should not enter secret societies. It is certainly much better for the believers to dissociate themselves from such organizations... LG#1391 (2 Mar. 1951 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
