



...order your lives in accordance with the first principle of the divine teaching, which is love. Service to humanity is service to God. Let the love and light of the Kingdom radiate through you until all who look upon you shall be illumined by its reflection. PUP.008

Baha'u'llah has stated quite clearly in His Writings the essential requisites for our spiritual growth, and these are stressed again and again by 'Abdu'l-Baha in His talks and Tablets. One can summarize them briefly in this way: 1) The recital each day of one of the Obligatory Prayers with pure-hearted devotion. 2) The regular reading of the Sacred Scriptures, specifically at least each morning and evening, with reverence, attention and thought. 3) Prayerful meditation on the teachings, so that we may understand them more deeply, fulfil them more faithfully, and convey them more accurately to others. 4) Striving every day to bring our behaviour more into accordance with the high standards that are set forth in the teachings. 5) Teaching the Cause of God. 6) Selfless service in the work of the Cause and in the carrying on of our trade or profession. These points ... represent the path towards the attainment of true spirituality that has been laid down by the Manifestation of God for this age. LG#1835, M63-86 375.5 (1 Sep. 1983 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

This is worship: to serve mankind and to minister to the needs of the people. Service is prayer. PT#55:1 p177

There is nothing that brings success in the Faith like service. Service is the magnet which draws the divine confirmations. Thus, when a person is active, they are blessed by the Holy Spirit. When they are inactive, the Holy Spirit cannot find a repository in their being, and thus they are deprived of its healing and quickening rays. LG#405 (12 Jul. 1952 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...An individual must center his whole heart and mind on service to the Cause, in accordance with the high standards set by Baha'u'llah. When this is done, the hosts of the Supreme Concourse will come to the assistance of the individual, and every difficulty and trial will gradually be overcome. LG#406 (6 Oct. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The day of service is now come. GWB#043 p092, TB.084

Arise, O wayfarer in the path of the Love of God, and aid thou His Cause. GWB#015 p038

We must now highly resolve to arise and lay hold of all those instrumentalities that promote the peace and well-being and happiness, the knowledge, culture and industry, the dignity, value and station, of the entire human race. SDC.004

Sincerity is the foundation-stone of faith. That is, a religious individual must disregard his personal desires and seek in whatever way he can wholeheartedly to serve the public interest.... SDC.096

Again, is there any deed in the world that would be nobler than service to the common good? Is there any greater blessing conceivable for a man, than that he should become the cause of the education, the development, the prosperity and honor of his fellow-creatures? No, by the Lord God! The highest righteousness of all is for blessed souls to take hold of the hands of the helpless and deliver them out of their ignorance and abasement and poverty, and with pure motives, and only for the sake of God, to arise and energetically devote themselves to the service of the masses, forgetting their own worldly advantage and working only to serve the general good. SDC.103

Happy the soul that shall forget his own good, and like the chosen ones of God, vie with his fellows in service to the good of all.... SDC.116

Arise to serve the Cause of God, in such wise that the cares and sorrows caused by them that have disbelieved in the Dayspring of the Signs of God may not afflict you. KA#035

Think ye at all times of rendering some service to every member of the human race. SWAB#001 p003

Service to the friends is service to the Kingdom of God, and consideration shown to the poor is one of the greatest teachings of God. SWAB#011 p027

The triumphant hosts of the Celestial Concourse, arrayed and marshalled in the Realms above, stand ready and expectant to assist and assure victory to that valiant horseman who with confidence spurs on his charger into the arena of service. Well is it with that fearless warrior, who armed with the power of true Knowledge, hastens unto the field, disperses the armies of ignorance, and scatters the hosts of error... SWAB#208 p264, Ruhi6.1.29

Arise ye, under all conditions, to render service to the Cause, for God will assuredly assist you through the power of His sovereignty which overshadoweth the worlds. KA#074

Today there is no greater glory for man than that of service in the cause of the Most Great Peace. PUP.123

If thou seekest eternal glory, let thyself be humble and meek in the presence of the beloved of God; make thyself the servant of all, and serve all alike. The service of the friends belongs to God, not to them. Strive to become a source of harmony, spirituality and joyfulness to the hearts of the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful. TAB.061-062

Naturally there will be periods of distress and difficulty, and even severe tests; but if that person turns firmly toward the divine Manifestation, studies carefully His spiritual teachings and receives the blessings of the Holy Spirit, he will find that in reality these tests and difficulties have been the gifts of God to enable him to grow and develop. Thus you might look upon your own difficulties in the path of service. They are the means of your spirit growing and developing. You will suddenly find that you have conquered many of the problems which upset you, and then you will wonder why they should have troubled you at all. An individual must center his whole heart and mind on service to the Cause, in accordance with the high standards set by Baha'u'llah. When this is done, the Hosts of the Supreme Concourse will come to the assistance of the individual, and every difficulty and trial will gradually be overcome. COC#1334 (6 Oct. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The attitude of the individual as a servant, an attitude pre-eminently exemplified in the life and person of 'Abdu'l-Baha, is a dynamic that permeates the activities of the Faith; it acquires collective, transformative force in the normal functioning of a community. In this regard, the institutions of the Faith stand as channels for the promotion of this salient characteristic. It is in this framework that the concepts of rulership and leadership, authority and power are properly understood and actualized. M86-01 183.33 (19 May 1994 from the Universal House of Justice)




Happy is the faithful one who is attired with the vesture of high endeavour and hath arisen to serve this Cause. Such a soul hath truly attained the desired Goal and hath apprehended the Object for which it hath been created. TB.257
