



Regard men as a flock of sheep that need a shepherd for their protection. This, verily, is the truth, the certain truth. We approve of liberty in certain circumstances, and refuse to sanction it in others. We, verily, are the All-Knowing. Say: True liberty consisteth in man's submission unto My commandments, little as ye know it. Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven of Revelation, they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect liberty. Happy is the man that hath apprehended the Purpose of God in whatever He hath revealed from the Heaven of His Will that pervadeth all created things. Say: The liberty that profiteth you is to be found nowhere except in complete servitude unto God, the Eternal Truth. Whoso hath tasted of its sweetness will refuse to barter it for all the dominion of earth and heaven. KA#124-125, GWB#159 p336

Afflictions and troubles are due to the state of not being content with what God has ordained for one. If one submits himself to God, he is always happy. A man asked another: 'In what station are you?' The other answered: 'In the utmost happiness.' 'Where does this happiness come from?' 'Because all existing things move according to my wish. I do not find anything contrary to my desire. Therefore I have no sorrow. There is no doubt that all the beings move by the Will of God, and I have given up my own will, desiring the Will of God. Thus my will became the Will of God, for there is nothing of myself. All are moving by His Will, yet they are moving by my own will. In this case, I am very happy.' When man surrenders himself, everything will move according to his wish. DJT.059-060

Prefer not your will to Mine, never desire that which I have not desired for you, and approach Me not with lifeless hearts, defiled with worldly desires and cravings. PHW#19

By self-surrender (fana') and perpetual union with God is meant that men should merge their will wholly in the Will of God, and regard their desires as utter nothingness beside His Purpose. Whatsoever the Creator commandeth His creatures to observe, the same must they diligently, and with the utmost joy and eagerness, arise and fulfil.... The station of absolute self-surrender transcendeth, and will ever remain exalted above, every other station. GWB#160 p337-338

The source of all good is trust in God, submission unto His command, and contentment with His holy will and pleasure.... The source of all glory is acceptance of whatsoever the Lord hath bestowed, and contentment with that which God hath ordained.... The essence of understanding is to testify to one's poverty, and submit to the Will of the Lord, the Sovereign, the Gracious, the All-Powerful.... TB.155-156

Depend thou upon God. Forsake thine own will and cling to His, set aside thine own desires and lay hold of His... SWAB#038 p079, Ruhi1.2.7

Be thou contented, in utter acquiescence and at all times, with the Decree of thy Lord, first in thy soul, and then in thine outward manifestation. Thou wouldst attain the utmost state of contentment with the good pleasure of God when thou art pleased with misery even as thou wouldst be with glory, with poverty as with wealth, with exertion as with tranquility, and with sorrow as with joy, in the states of thy soul and the outward condition that God hath destined for thee. Verily all the knowledge of ethics streameth forth out of the well-spring of this crystal, living water. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.305)

Cook Ting laid down his knife and replied, "What I care about is the Way, which goes beyond skill. When I first began cutting up oxen, all I could see was the ox itself. After three years I no longer saw the whole ox. And now--now I go at it by spirit and don't look with my eyes. Perception and understanding have come to a stop and spirit moves where it wants. I go along with the natural makeup, strike in the big hollows, guide the knife through the big openings, and follow things are they are. So I never touch the smallest ligament or tendon, much less a main joint." (Chuang Tzu, Basic Writings, p. 46-47)

Place not thy reliance on thy treasures. Put thy whole confidence in the grace of God, thy Lord. Let Him be thy trust in whatever thou doest, and be of them that have submitted themselves to His Will. SLH.5#065




Repentance is the return from rebelliousness to obedience. It is after experiencing remoteness and deprivation from God that man repents and purifies himself. Thus, this purification is a symbol saying: "O God! Render my heart goodly and pure, and cleanse and sanctify it from all save Thy love." SAQ#19.3 (was SAQ.091)

My sole duty is to remind you of your failure in duty towards the Cause of God, if perchance ye may be of them that heed My warning. Wherefore, hearken ye unto My speech, and return ye to God and repent, that He, through His grace, may have mercy upon you, may wash away your sins, and forgive your trespasses. GWB#066 p130

Verily, the breezes of forgiveness have been wafted from the direction of your Lord, the God of Mercy; whoso turneth thereunto, shall be cleansed of his sins, and of all pain and sickness.  Happy the man that hath turned towards them, and woe betide him that hath turned aside.  ESW.046-047
