



[see heptad discussion in Da'ira files, 9/2002, for more material]     For a brief discussion of the significance of the number seven in the Bab's Writings, see B. Todd Lawson, The Qur'an Commentary of the Bab, in A. Rippin, Approaches to the History of the Interpretation of the Qur'an (Clarendon: 1988), p. 240.

Thou hadst asked about fate (qada), predestination (qadar) and will (iradih). Qada and qadar consist in the necessary and indispensable relationships which exist in the realities of things. These relationships have been placed in the realities of existent beings through the power of creation and every incident is a consequence of the necessary relationship. For example, God hath created a relation between the sun and the terrestrial globe that the rays of the sun should shine and the soil should yield. These relationships constitute qadar, and the manifestation thereof in the plane of existence is qada. Iradih is that active force which controlleth these relationships and these incidents. Such is the epitome of the explanation of qada and qadar. I have no time for a detailed explanation. Ponder over this; the reality of qada, qadar, and iradih shall be made manifest. SWAB#167 p198

Since the Ancient of Days created mankind for the purpose of apprehending the power shining within themselves, and made reward and punishment the instrument for fulfilling this purpose, He created the Will from nothing through the causality of the Will itself, without qualification or explanation. After that He created all things through its causality, and the creation of anything upon which the letter of the Will hath fallen is only possible through seven stages of contingency. Without these stages nothing is possible in the contingent world. These seven stages are Will (mashiyyat), Purpose (iradih), predestination (qadar), fate (qada'), permission (idhn), fixed time (ajal), and the book (kitab).[1] The first stage of anything for which the "thingness" of existence is not a condition is the Will. The moment thingness is attached to it, it becometh Purpose, and this moment is accompanied by predestination. The manifestation of these three stages is fate. In this regard,[2] it is incumbent upon all creatures to acknowledge the spontaneity (bada' ) of God,[3] lauded and exalted be He, for His will cannot be altered after the stage of fate; it is fixed.[4] The decrees of permission, fixed time, and the book are subsequent to execution (imda'). Indeed, the reality of creation and the secret of the origination of existence are contained in these seven stages in both the hidden and manifest worlds. (The Bab, provisional translation, from the Sahifiy-i-Usul va Furu'; AvK1.099, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages; alternative translation in MNP.047) [1] This scheme of seven stages comes from a tradition ascribed to the sixth Shi'ih Imam, Ja'far as-Sadiq, a number of variants of which can be found in the Usul al-Kafi (Kulayni, vol. 1, pp. 204-208). [2] i.e., in regard to the first three stages prior to their manifestation. [3] Bada', translated here as "spontaneity" with reference to God's action, is the doctrine that God is free to change His mind and do whatever He pleases, even to change an earlier divine ruling. For more on the concepts of bada', qadar, and qada', see Fazlur Rahman, The Philosophy of Mulla Sadra, pp. 180-182; also entries in Encyclopedia of Islam. [4] Once something is manifested in the temporal world, it cannot be altered. Events are fixed and can only be succeeded by new events. (notes by K. Brown)

I recognize, O my God, that whenever something is related to Thee, the decree of the Will (Mashiyyat) is applicable to it, and whenever it is related to itself, the decree of Purpose (Iradih) is established in it. When this duality is realized the decree of predestination (Qadar) is manifested. After these three have descended, all seven will be generated, inasmuch as it is impossible for anything to be realized save through these seven stages. Six of them belong to the letter Waw in connection to the limitations of things, and one of them belongeth to their manifestations in the station of the Sign of God. Nothing is created in the heavens or on the earth except through them. Moreover, it is impossible for something to become clothed in the garment of existence without a fire belonging to its first remembrance, then a water, and then an earth for the preservation of its existence. Thus, hath God, in fairness, made plain His signs in both souls and in the world. (The Bab, provisional translation, AvK1.100, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages)

A praise sanctified from the mention of all mankind befitteth the sublime and most holy court of the Desired One, Who hath ordained that the completion of every existence be realized through the seven stages of Will, Purpose, predestination, fate, permission, fixed time, and the book, each of which is a bountiful and shoreless sea whose pearls are preserved and concealed within the shells of the inviolability of God, exalted be His glory. In truth, should a man desire to expound upon these stages and stations, each of which is a wellspring of divine knowledge and a dawning-place of heavenly wisdom, he could not exhaust this theme with this pen and paper, and in the realm of true understanding, which is the seat of those who are nigh unto God, the pens and papers of the world would also not suffice him. He is the All-Powerful, Who hath made whatsoever He hath created, whether the atoms, that which is beneath them, or that which is above them, each a sign indicating and proclaiming His grandeur and sovereignty, His power and might, His generosity, bounty, and favor....     Concerning what thou didst write about good luck and fortune, destiny and fate, whatever is outwardly observed and confirmed is in accord with that which hath been decreed. "Nothing cometh into existence in the heavens or on the earth save through Will, Purpose, predestination, fate, permission, fixed-time, and the book." Every soul who entereth this world entereth with innumerable means, which although invisible to outward vision are true and fact. Whatever is irrevocably decreed by fate cannot be changed, but whatever remaineth potential can be changed through means and actions. The first inclination that is created in man, before the appearance of means, is the stage of the Will; the first conception of means is the stage of Purpose; predestination is the stage of scheme and dimension, that is to say, the appearance of means in proper quantity. Fate is the composition of that which hath been decreed.     Much hath been written about the stage of predestination. For example: "Predestination is a secret from God's secret, a command from His command, and a treasury from His treasury sealed with the seal of God." Furthermore, it is described as "a billowing ocean which cannot be exhausted and a pitch dark night which cannot be traversed. Its vastness is that of heaven and earth, its breadth containeth the East and the West, and in its depth a sun is shining."     Man observeth these seven stages in his own development. After the appearance of fate, execution becometh evident, and it is the same as the stage of permission. For every created thing its fixed-time, in other words, the duration of its existence, is set. After the fixed-time, the book, which is the stage of the completion of a thing, shall be laid bare and made manifest. To God belongeth praise this day! The foundation of all stations is manifest, and it is detachment from all things and submission to His behest. In this case, these stations themselves are unveiled. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA8.191-192, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages)

The Crimson Land (Ard-i-Hamra) and the Most Crimson Hill (Kathib-i-Ahmar; cf. Qur'an 73:14) refer to the stage of Predestination because in the termilology of the Ahlu'llah (Sufis), white is the station of the Primal Will, green is the station of Fate (qadar), red is the station of Predestination (qada), and yellow is the station of Divine Completion (Imda). Wherefore is it that the crimson land signifieth the station of the most-great martyrdom (shahadat-i kubra). (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA2.048 and Asraru'l-Athar 4:17. For examples of this color scheme in the Bab's Writings see The Persian Bayan 3:10, 4:18, 8:5)

Haji Mirza Haydar Ali was in the presence of Abdu'l-Baha on 19 May 1916 in Haifa and asked the significance of colors in accord with Sufism: 'It is the terminology of the Shaykhis. White is the station of the Primal Will because it contains every color. The color red is the station of Predestination. Yellow (asfar/safra) is the feminine station of Purpose. The color blue is Fate. The white point (spot) means the Primal Will. The red point means Predestination. The yellow leaf/page (varaqatul-safra) is Purpose. The Blue Heaven (Sama'ul-Zarqa) is Fate. The Bab (Nuqtih-i-Ula) mentions in the Ahsanul-Qisas that Rutbih-i-Hamra (Red Rank) is the degree of Predestination.' (Abdu'l-Baha, from the pilgrim's notes of Badi' Bushru'i, ABU2713)

For, verily, a thing hath specific aspects: the aspect of matter, the aspect of form, and the aspect of combination. When these three aspects descend, they become seven....Verily, the Merciful hath alluded to these seven aspects as Seven Seas, and they are the words of God. Nothing can come into being in the heaven of receiving matter and the earth of received form save through these seven stages. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.204)

The first three grades, when they descend, manifest the seven. The first three stages form the unseen realm and the next four form the visible realm. (The Bab, provisional translation, commentary on Suriy-i-Tawhid, le Béyan Arabe, pp. 28-29 and P. Terry's trans., p. 11)

...there is a saying in the East by which the color white symbolizes divine will (mashiyyat); red, divine decree (qada) and martyrdom; green, predestination (taqdir); and yellow, execution (ijra') of the decree. (Mahmud's Diary, 10 Jul. 1912, p. 164)

Praise be to God, Who made the line generated from the Primal Point manifest in the letter Ba the ornament of the seal for His name overshadowing all names, Who then split it into two by the secret hidden between the two commands [Will (mashiyah) and Purpose (Iradah)], and took one up with the other under the veil of predestination [qadar]. Thereupon, the Most Great Book was completed and all who dwell in earth and heaven became adorned therewith so that the dawning-places of affirmation, subsequent to negation, might testify to that which the tree of fate [qada'] hath testified in the luminous Spot and turn toward the Dayspring of Alteration [bada'] at the scene of sacrifice.... (Abdu'l-Baha, commentary on the Qayyumu'l-Asma, MA9.048) PC00282

Nothing in the heavens or the earth exists save through seven properties: will, purpose, decree, fate, permission, the fixed time, and the book. AvK1.102n (Hadith of Imam Ja'far a's-Sadiq)

Nothing takes place save through the will of God, and His purpose, His decree and fate... "Dost thou know what is the will?" "No." "It is the remembrance/intimation. And dost thou know what is the purpose?" "No." "It is the determination/resolution of that which hath been willed. And dost thou know what is decree?" "No." "It is the order of things (handasa), and the fixing of the boundaries between immortality and ephemerality. Fate is the settlement/establishment (ibram) and the iqamatu'l-'ayn. AvK1.103n (Hadith recorded in the Majma' al-Bahrayn)

There are seven general stages. The first is the stage of the inorganic being. From the mineral kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the plant..., and from the plant kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the animal....When it reacheth the stage of soul, spirit, and mind, then in accordance with that stage, it hath a death which will certainly destroy all privative aspects. Finally, the command will reach the stage of the inmost heart, which is the gulf of immortality and pure life, in the presence of the Lord of creation. There, for evermore, the servant will gaze towards God. (The Bab, provisional translation, Asraru'l-Athar, vol. 4, p. 121, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

That which I set forth in explanation of the letter Ha was to extol the Tree of Baha, for the supporters of fate (qada') recognize the decree of spontaneity (bada') in the Crimson Pillar. It, in truth, is the secret of creation, for the element of fire in the realm of origination (ibda') can only exist through the element of earth. This is because with the exception of God, nothing can subsist through itself. All things are composite. Once the decree of duality is established, the decree of connection (rab?) is also established, for a thing cannot be a thing except through its existence, which is the aspect of manifestation (tajalli) in it, through its essence, which is the aspect of receiving (qubul), and through connection, which is realized after the union [of the first two]. These three stages correspond to the stages of the trinity in the first name which God chose for Himself. For this reason Christians adopted the shape of the cross and incarnated the divinity in mortal form. Immensely exalted is God above that which moral minds are able to apprehend from the sweet melodies uttered by the Birds of Heaven upon the boughs of the Tree of Divinity!...The names of these three at the beginning of the creative act are Will, Purpose, and predestination (qadar), which the people of eloquence (ahlu'l-bayan)[1] express as calling-into-being (insha'), origination (ibda'), invention (ikhtira'), creation (ihdath), and being made (inji'al). It is not possible for anything to exist without the elements described, even were God's command offered to a willing soul, for the contingent world cannot come into existence save through two complementary principles. Once the remembrance of duality is established, the remembrance of states (shu'un) continueth without end, for these states have no end....     Reflect upon the stage of Purpose (iradih), which is the Eve of the Primal Adam and the Throne whereon the Will is seated in the station of the All-Merciful, and consider how God hath created it with four pillars. One pillar is the stage of fate (qada'), which is the element of fire and the manifestation of the efficient cause; its color is white due to its pure simplicity in relation to the conditions of multiplicity, dimension, and distinction.... Another pillar is the stage of permission (idhn), which is the element of air and the manifestation of the material cause; its color is yellow in relation to that which is determined... Another pillar is the stage of fixed time (ajal), which is the element of water and the manifestation of the formal cause, the eternal first Pen, and the third leaf of the divine Tree, whose essence is from the East and not the West. Its color is green, and through it the green of each thing is obtained... Another pillar is the stage of the Book (kitab), which is the element of earth and the manifestation of the final cause in the world of names and attributes. Its color is red, and through it the red in each thing is obtained, the scheme of each thing produced, and the measure of each thing determined. (The Bab, provisional translation, in INBA 14:268 ff; 67:38 ff; 86:137 ff., in in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)     Notes by KB:     [1] Probably a reference to those philosophers and theologians who were concerned with defining and refining the types and stages of God's creation of things, and who proposed different terms for each stage. See, for example, Mir Damad's al-Qabasat, chapter 1, on the types of creation (huduth).     [2] Rajab.     [3] Qur'an 30:40.     [4] I.e. saying the words: No God is there but God.

God in truth created the Will before all other things and made it the cause of their existence. It is the First Remembrance, whereof the Imam asked while addressing Jonah: "Dost thou know what the Will is?" He replied: "No." Then he explained: "It is the First Remembrance." Through the gift of His wisdom and the excellence of His craftsmanship, God placed within it a sign of the manifestation of His self-subsistence, that it might indicate His oneness under all conditions. This Will hath seven modes without which it is impossible for anything to be clothed in the vesture of existence... Verily, God hath made its outer the same as its inner, its first the same as its last, and its concealment the same as its manifestation. There is nothing like unto it, for all else cometh into existence from nothing by the manifestation of its creative action through the appearance of the power of its Agent...     As the highest mode of the Will is established, let us turn towards the mode of its being that is called Purpose (irada). This is the station of the Second Remembrance wherein the condition of the remembrance of creation is made manifest through the limitation of the creative outpouring.... Through this station the mode of relationships (rab?) known as predestination (qadar) appeareth, which is the beginning of multiplicity and infinitude. Whatever is going to exist in the contingent world cometh into existence through the existence of Purpose....     After the mode of Purpose, God hath ordained five additional modes. Among them is the stage of predestination, whose object is the design (handasa) of substances, matters, existences, natures, essences, accidents, and forms after the first causes at the root of the creative act. Multiplicities and the distinction of images from realities and essences from attributes emerge in this stage.... The condition of choosing good or evil ariseth in the third stage, which is made manifest after the conjunction of the two Commands. This is by virtue of the essence of things. The secret of the possible is only revealed in the station of predestination and the triangular figure. Thus Christians say "the third of three," and use the shape of the cross in the ritual of the trinity.... (The Bab, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Valiy-i-Shushtar, INBA 14:417 ff., 40:137 ff., 53:34 ff., 67:195 ff., in "Selections on the seven stages")

Know that the divine Action, with respect to its stages, together with its connection to the outcomes of acting, comprise a number of divisions. The first is the stage of the Will, which is the first remembrance, as the Imam Rida related to Jonah. What is meant is that prior to the Will a thing hath no remembrance (dhikr) in any degree of the contingent world. The beginning of its remembrance is to be known with respect to its existence. For example, if something comes to you to act upon, it is nothing before you bring it to mind. When you bring it to mind, your very remembrance of it constitutes the first of the degrees of its existence, or its being.     The second is Purpose, which is the determination upon that which has been willed. This is the second stage of its remembrance, and its being known with respect to its archetype ('ayn). It has no existence before this save the first remembrance, which is its being and the emanation of its existence prior to the concomitant of essence. It is through Purpose that essence is entailed for it, while it is through the Will that Purpose comes into being as a result of the latter's being a consequence of it.     The third is predestination, which is the stage of existentiational topography (handasa ijadiyya). Through it the limitations of things are set, including provisions, terms of duration, continuance and mortality, restraint of magnitudes, temporal and atemporal modes, location, quantity, quality, degree, orientation, position, record, permission, accidents, magnitudes of rays, and all boundaries until the end of the degrees of its existence. The beginning of the second creation occurs in this stage, the start of felicity and misery. It is through Purpose that predestination comes into being as a result of the latter's being a consequence of it. These aforementioned limitations also occur with the first creation, but in a more sublime way. I have only set them forth here, because this is the station of scheme, while that is the station of simplicity.     The fourth is fate, which is the realization of what has been predetermined and its composition in accordance with the natural system. Predestination is like measuring the materials of a bed for length, breadth, and shape. Fate corresponds to composing them into a bed.     The fifth is execution, which is the concomitant of fate. It is the act of making something manifest, revealing the causes, and disclosing the means due to the combination within it of all the stages needed to make one cognizant of the impressions of the divine active attributes. The first four stages, therefore, are the elements of the divine Act, while the fifth is their disclosure. It is through predestination that fate comes to be, and it is through fate that execution comes to be.     These four stages constitute the Morn of Eternity (subh al-azal), as the light which shines forth from the Morn of Eternity consists of four lights. They are the Throne upon which the All-Merciful is seated in His mercifulness, which is these four stages of action. The light shining from the first stage is the upper right pillar of the Throne; it is the white light. The light shining from the second stage is the lower right pillar of the Throne; it is the yellow light. The light shining from the third stage is the upper left pillar of the Throne; it is the green light. The light shining from the fourth stage is the lower left pillar of the Throne; it is the red light. The white color of the Will is due to its perfect simplicity. The yellow color of Purpose is due to an increase of heat in the whiteness. The green color of predestination is due to the mixture of the blackness of multiplicity, which is a consequence of predestination, with the yellowness that is an effect of Purpose. The red color of fate is due to the combination of the white of the Will with the yellow of Purpose in the heat of the decree of fate through execution.     (Shaykh Ahmad, The Fourth Observation, Al-Fawa'id al-Hikmiyyah in The Metaphysics and Cosmology of Process, pp. 434-436, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

As for the nature of God's knowledge of universals, that is, knowing in a general respect, or knowing the universals of things: These are universal worlds under which are instances and individuals, or they are abstracted universals, like naturalness, logicalness, and rationality. These are fixed things on the left side of existence. It is this theme that has caused most of the people to perish, and you will find that all are comparers and deniers, save those who adhere to the sayings of Muhammad and His family and who do not let their feet exceed their bounds....     The truth of this question is contrary to what the majority of the people understand. But the matter is easy for one who has discovered and recognized that knowledge is the same as the object of knowledge in the Necessary and the contingent, the visible and the invisible. Whoever doesn't understand this will never attain the truth of this question. An explanation of this will follow, God willing....     The truth is that when the creative action is related to existence, it is the Will; when it is related to the archetype ('ayn), in other words, the species form, it is Purpose; and when it is related to the limitations of the created, that is to say, their topography (handasa)--which includes length and breadth, continuance and mortality, term of duration, and the like--it is predestination. Through the accomplishment of the act of creation and the thing itself, it is fate; and through its manifestation, the revealing of causes, and the disclosure of means, it is execution....     The notion of the unity of the thinker with the object of thought is based upon what was put forward by the author of the doctrine of the oneness of existence (wahdat al-wujud). He was obliged, for the sake of the correctness of this principle, to forget what it implied in corruption of belief and to cross over into unworthy speculations. God willing, we will explain the falsity of everything he depends upon and the repugnance of what he implies, such as the oneness of the agent and the patient, cause and effect, and so on....     (Shaykh Ahmad, Sharh al-Masha'ir, pp. 15-18, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

Know that the qada is a decisive judgment (hukm, or decree) of God concerning the things. God's decisive judgment concerning things is given in strict accordance with His Knowledge of the latter themselves and their properties. And God's Knowledge about the things is based on what is given by the very essences of the things. And the qadar is the specification of the appointed time at which each of the things should actually occur in accordance with its archetypal state without any alteration. But the qada itself, when it decides upon the destiny of each thing, does so only in accordance with its archetype. And this is the mystery of the qadar.... (Ibn 'Arabi, in Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 176)

For, verily, when a thing is made mention of, it becometh invested with the station of existence, and it is impossible for the thing to exist except through the station of essence, which is the agent of the acceptance of existence. And the affirmation of duality requireth the affirmation of the link between the two. And by virtue of the realization of the link in the station of the trinity, it is necessary, according to wisdom, that four further stages be realized for the descent of the Command from the Unseen Realm to the manifest world. Thus the utterance of truth requireth the affirmation of the seven stages of causation at all levels of existence. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.203)

The reality of all beings save God dependeth on two aspects (jihat). The first is the existential aspect (jihat-i-vujudi) which indicateth the divine effulgence, while the second is the essential aspect (jihat-i-mahiyyati), which indicateth servitude and the acceptance of that effulgence. Through the realization of both these aspects, the link of Destiny, which is the connection between these two aspects, will become manifest. And after the appearance of the three, the other four aspects are realized, for the descent of the three is impossible save through the appearance of the four. This is the reason for the seven stages of causation. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.203, BB00037)

The Bab interprets "verb" as a reference to the first stage of divine Action, Will, which is the source of existence... The noun symbolizes the second stage of divine Action, Determination, which is the source of the essences of things. The preposition represents the third stage, Destiny, which unites existence and essence: "Verily, the noun is the attribute of the thing as it is in its own station.... But the verb referreth to the movement of that thing, and is the source of both noun and preposition. The verb, in truth, is a motionless Creation that is not defined by stillness... and a moving Creation that is not defined by motion.... As to the preoposition, it is that meaning which testifieth unto naught but the link." (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.205-206, commentary by N. Saiedi)

Know thou that the root principle of the recognition of the modes of the causation of divine Action consisteth of seven stages, whose acknowledgement is the binding duty of all. True recognition is not complete without the recognition of all of these stages, and the recognition of the first is not accepted save through the recognition of the last. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.231)
