



in the sight of God, smoking tobacco is deprecated, abhorrent, filthy in the extreme; and, albeit by degrees, highly injurious to health. It is also a waste of money and time, and maketh the user a prey to a noxious addiction. To those who stand firm in the Covenant, this habit is therefore censured both by reason and experience, and renouncing it will bring relief and peace of mind to all men. SWAB#129

Concerning smoking; it is not forbidden in the Baha'i 355 teachings and no one can enforce its prohibition. It is strongly discouraged as a habit which is not very clean or very healthy. But it is a matter left entirely to the conscience of the individual and not of major importance, whereas the use of alcohol is definitely forbidden and thus not left optional to the conscience of the believer. LG#1189 (19 Apr. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Smoking has nothing to do with firmness in the Covenant. Baha'is are advised not to smoke for reasons of health and hygiene, not because of any spiritual reasons. We naturally cherish every hint and advice from 'Abdu'l-Baha regarding our conduct, but as He has not forbidden this we must leave such person free to decide for himself. LG#1190 (9 Aug. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

He feels that we should not lay stress, to new Baha'is on the necessity of giving up smoking, especially as this is purely optional, and many of the Baha'is still do smoke. There are many things in the Teachings that require a stiff effort on the part of a new believer, and we should not add to the hurdles at the very beginning, so to speak. LG#1191 (4 Dec. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The Bab, at the outset of His mission, explicitly prohibited tobacco, and the friends one and all abandoned its use. But since those were times when dissimulation was permitted, and every individual who abstained from smoking was exposed to harassment, abuse and even death -- the friends, in order not to advertise their beliefs, would smoke. Later on, the Book of Aqdas was revealed, and since smoking tobacco was not specifically forbidden there, the believers did not give it up. The Blessed Beauty, however, always expressed repugnance for it, and although, in the early days, there were reasons why He would smoke a little tobacco, in time He completely renounced it, and those sanctified souls who followed Him in all things also abandoned its use. SWAB#129
