



This perfect body can be compared to a mirror, and the human spirit to the sun: If the glass is shattered or the mirror destroyed, no harm befalls the outpouring grace of the sun, which continues unabated. SAQ#36.3 (was SAQ.144)

...as the human spirit continues after death, it must either advance or decline, and in the next world to cease to advance is the same as to decline. But the human spirit never transcends its own degree: It progresses only within that degree. For example, no matter how far the spirit and reality of Peter may progress, it will never reach the degree of the reality of Christ but will progress only within its own inherent limits. Thus, you see that however much this mineral may progress, its progress remains within its own degree; you cannot possibly bring this crystal, for example, to a state where it gains the power of sight. SAQ#63.2-3 (was SAQ.233)

After souls become delivered from their physical forms, they have another mode of expression, which is a heavenly reality sanctified and free from the accidents of this evanescent world. These numberless globes, however, all belong to the world of elements, whose beings are subject to composition and decomposition. The world of the Kingdom is free from composition and decomposition. Nonetheless, it is clear that every container hath its contents, every place its dimensions, every bouquet its flowers, and every garden its songbirds. These great existents are certainly not void and empty of life, nor is His creation vain and futile. The Qur'an is very explicit on this theme, but despite this clarity its negligent commentators have failed to grasp the truth. As He sayeth: "Among His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the living creatures he hath scattered throughout them." (Qur'an 42:29) He declareth that one of the clear signs indicating His presence is the heavens and the earth, and the living, animate beings which have been created within them. Observe that it is explicit that the heavens contain animate beings. The term used in Arabic (Dabba) referreth to animate beings that have volitional movement. This is all time permits. AvK1.144, AvK1.281; PC00515

Consider, moreover, how the fruit, ere it is formed, lieth potentially within the tree. Were the tree to be cut into pieces, no sign nor any part of the fruit, however, small, could be detected. When it appeareth, however, it manifesteth itself, as thou hast observed, in its wondrous beauty and glorious perfection. Certain fruits, indeed, attain their fullest development only after being severed from the tree. GWB#080 p155

Just as the conception of faith hath existed from the beginning that hath no beginning, and will endure till the end that hath no end, in like manner will the true believer eternally live and endure. His spirit will everlastingly circle round the Will of God. His spirit will everlastingly circle round the Will of God. He will last as long as God, Himself, will last. He is revealed through the Revelation of God, and is hidden at His bidding. It is evident that the loftiest mansions in the Realm of Immortality have been ordained as the habitation of them that have truly believed in God and in His signs. GWB#073 p141

...every malady afflicting the body of man is an impediment that preventeth the soul from manifesting its inherent might and power. When it leaveth the body, however, it will evince such ascendancy, and reveal such influence as no force on earth can equal. Every pure, every refined and sanctified soul will be endowed with tremendous power, and shall rejoice with exceeding gladness. GWB#080 p154

And now concerning thy question regarding the soul of man and its survival after death. Know thou of a truth that the soul, after its separation from the body, will continue to progress until it attaineth the presence of God, in a state and condition which neither the revolution of ages and centuries, nor the changes and chances of this world, can alter....Blessed is the soul which, at the hour of its separation from the body, is sanctified from the vain imaginings of the peoples of the world. Such a soul liveth and moveth in accordance with the Will of its Creator, and entereth the all-highest Paradise. The Maids of Heaven, inmates of the loftiest mansions, will circle around it, and the Prophets of God and His chosen ones will seek its companionship. With them that soul will freely converse, and will recount unto them that which it hath been made to endure in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds.... The nature of the soul after death can never be described, nor is it meet and permissible to reveal its whole character to the eyes of men.... The light which these souls radiate is responsible for the progress of the world and the advancement of its peoples. They are like unto leaven which leaveneth the world of being, and constitute the animating force through which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest. GWB#081 p155-157, Ruhi1.3.3, Ruhi1.3.14

The world beyond is as different from this world as this world is different from that of the child while still in the womb of its mother. When the soul attaineth the Presence of God, it will assume the form that best befitteth its immortality and is worthy of its celestial habitation. Such an existence is a contingent and not an absolute existence, inasmuch as the former is preceded by a cause, whilst the latter is independent thereof. GWB#081 p157

Thou hast, moreover, asked Me concerning the state of the soul after its separation from the body. Know thou, of a truth, that if the soul of man hath walked in the ways of God, it will, assuredly, return and be gathered to the glory of the Beloved. By the righteousness of God! It shall attain a station such as no pen can depict, or tongue describe. The soul that hath remained faithful to the Cause of God, and stood unwaveringly firm in His Path shall, after his ascension, be possessed of such power that all the worlds which the Almighty hath created can benefit through him. Such a soul provideth, at the bidding of the Ideal King and Divine Educator, the pure leaven that leaveneth the world of being, and furnisheth the power through which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest. GWB#082 p161, Ruhi1.3.16

And now concerning thy question whether human souls continue to be conscious one of another after their separation from the body. Know thou that the souls of the people of Baha, who have entered and been established within the Crimson Ark, shall associate and commune intimately one with another, and shall be so closely associated in their lives, their aspirations, their aims and strivings as to be even as one soul.... The people of Baha, who are the inmates of the Ark of God, are, one and all, well aware of one another's state and condition, and are united in the bonds of intimacy and fellowship. Such a state, however, must depend upon their faith and their conduct. They that are of the same grade and station are fully aware of one another's capacity, character, accomplishments and merits. They that are of a lower grade, however, are incapable of comprehending adequately the station, or of estimating the merits, of those that rank above them. GWB#086 p169-170

Sorrow not if, in these days and on this earthly plane, things contrary to your wishes have been ordained and manifested by God, for days of blissful joy, of heavenly delight, are assuredly in store for you. Worlds, holy and spiritually glorious, will be unveiled to your eyes. You are destined by Him, in this world and hereafter, to partake of their benefits, to share in their joys, and to obtain a portion of their sustaining grace. To each and every one of them you will, no doubt, attain. GWB#153 p329, ADJ#113 p125, Ruhi1.3.17

The mysteries of man's physical death and of his return have not been divulged, and still remain unread. By the righteousness of God! Were they to be revealed, they would evoke such fear and sorrow that some would perish, while others would be so filled with gladness as to wish for death.... Death proffereth unto every confident believer the cup that is life indeed. It bestoweth joy, and is the bearer of gladness. It conferreth the gift of everlasting life. As to those that have tasted of the fruit of man's earthly existence, which is the recognition of the one true God, exalted be His glory, their life hereafter is such as We are unable to describe. GWB#165 p345-346, Ruhi1.3.4

As to thy question regarding discoveries made by the soul after it hath put off its human form: certainly, that world is a world of perceptions and discoveries, for the interposed veil will be lifted away and the human spirit will gaze upon souls that are above, below, and on a par with itself. It is similar to the condition of a human being in the womb, where his eyes are veiled, and all things are hidden away from him. Once he is born out of the uterine world and entereth this life, he findeth it, with relation to that of the womb, to be a place of perceptions and discoveries, and he observeth all things through his outer eye. In the same way, once he hath departed this life, he will behold, in that world whatsoever was hidden from him here: but there he will look upon and comprehend all things with his inner eye. There will he gaze on his fellows and his peers, and those in the ranks above him, and those below. SWAB#070 p170-171

Know thou that immortality belongeth to those souls in whom hath been breathed the spirit of life from God. All save these are lifeless - they are the dead, even as Christ hath explained in the Gospel text. He whose eyes the Lord hath opened will see the souls of men in the stations they will occupy after their release from the body. He will find the living ones thriving within the precincts of their Lord, and the dead sunk down in the lowest abyss of perdition. SWAB#159 p189-190, TAB.453

...the souls of the children of the Kingdom, after their separation from the body, ascend unto the realm of everlasting life. But if ye ask as to the place, know ye that the world of existence is a single world, although its stations are various and distinct... in the other world the human reality doth not assume a physical form, rather doth it take on a heavenly form, made up of elements of that heavenly realm.... Those souls who are pure and unsullied, upon the dissolution of their elemental frames, hasten away to the world of God, and that world is within this world. The people of this world, however, are unaware of that world, and are even as the mineral and the vegetable that know nothing of the world of the animal and the world of man. SWAB#163 p193-195

...the human spirit and reality ... continues to manifest its signs, to exert its influence, and to sustain its effects even after the dissociation and decomposition of the various parts and members of the body. SAQ#60.6 (was SAQ.225)

As the spirit of man lives forever after casting off this elemental frame, it is, like all existing things, undoubtedly capable of progress, and thus one may pray for a departed soul to advance, to be forgiven, or to be made the recipient of divine favours, bounties, and grace. That is why, in the prayers of Baha'u'llah, the forgiveness and pardon of God are implored for those who have ascended to the next world. SAQ#62.3 (was SAQ.231)

...as the perfections of man are infinite, he can also advance in these perfections after his ascension from this world. SAQ#64.7 (was SAQ.237)

...the rational soul is the substance through which the body subsists. If the accident--the body--is destroyed, the substance--the spirit--remains. SAQ#66.2 (was SAQ.239)

The progress of the human spirit in the divine world, after its connection with the physical body has been severed, is either purely through the grace and bounty of the Lord, or through the intercession and prayers of other human souls, or through the significant contributions and charitable deeds which are offered in its name. SAQ#66.6 (was SAQ.240)

...those souls who are veiled from God, although they exist both in this world and in the world to come, are non-existent and forgotten in relation to the sanctified existence of the children of the divine Kingdom. SAQ#67.10 (was SAQ.243)

As to the soul of man after death, it remains in the degree of purity to which it has evolved during life in the physical body, and after it is freed from the body it remains plunged in the ocean of God's Mercy. From the moment the soul leaves the body and arrives in the Heavenly World, its evolution is spiritual and the evolution is: The approaching unto God. PT#20:12-13 p066

Divine perfection is infinite, therefore the progress of the soul is also infinite.... In the world of spirit there is no retrogression. The world or mortality is a world of contradictions, of opposites; motion being compulsory everything must either go forward or retreat. In the realm of spirit there is no retreat possible, all movement is bound to be towards a perfect state. PT#29:5-9 p089-090, AvK1.295

When man dies, his relation with the body ceases.... The body is the temporary mirror. ADP.128

You will retain your individuality and will not be swallowed up in one vast spirit. Concerning the condition of the human soul after its ascension from the material world: the essence of the human soul is clarified from material substances and purified from the embodiment of physical things. It is exclusively luminous; it has no body; it is a dazzling pencil of light; it is a celestial orb of brightness. SW v14#02 p038

...only consciousness or mind is left after death... SW v14#02 p037 (Questions asked at Ramleh, May 1911)

...regarding the progress of the spirit in the world of the Kingdom after its ascension, it is wholly beyond space and time, and developments after leaving this body are spiritual and not terrestrial. It is like unto the progress of the child from the world of the foetus to the world of maturity and intelligence... (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 89)

...the God of the Universe ... removeth the spirit of the believer and elevateth it to the exalted of the most exalted. In this spiritual state the spirits of the believers recognize each other in the manner that hath been ordained by the Lord of the Worlds. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.308)

Though the worlds of God are circulating around this world, yet for each soul in any of these worlds (there is) a fixed and pre-ordained command. BSC#355 p.202 (Baha'u'llah)

Concerning the future life what Baha'u'llah says is that the soul will continue to ascend through many worlds. What those worlds are and what their nature is we cannot know. LG#682 (18 Oct. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Concerning your question whether a soul can receive knowledge of the Truth in the world beyond. Such a knowledge is surely possible, and is but a sign of the loving mercy of the Almighty. We can, through our prayers, help every soul to gradually attain this high station, even if it has failed to reach it in this world. The progress of the soul does not come to an end with death. It rather starts along a new line. Baha'u'llah teaches that great and far-reaching possibilities await the soul in the other world. Spiritual progress in that realm is infinite, and no man, while on this earth, can visualize its full power and extent. LG#683 (22 May 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

According to Baha'u'llah the soul retains its individuality and consciousness after death, and is able to commune with other souls. This communion, however, is purely spiritual in character, and is conditioned upon the disinterested and selfless love of the individuals for each other. LG#694 (10 Mar. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

You have asked as to what point in man's evolution he becomes conscious of self. This consciousness of self in man is a gradual process, and does not start at a definite point. It grows in him in this world and continues to do so in the future spiritual world. Man can certainly recall past experiences in his evolution, and even when his soul leaves this world it will still remember its past. LG#392 (20 Nov. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Evolution in the life of the individual starts with the formation of the human embryo and passes through various stages, and even continues after death in another form... Man's identity or rather his individuality is never lost. His reality as a person remains intact throughout the various stages of his development. He does not pre-exist in any form before coming into this world. LG#1820 (26 Nov. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The Baha'i view of the life after death can in no way be reconciled with certain Indian and Sufi doctrines which teach that the human soul can pass from one body to another. This doctrine, known as metempsychosis, is not only too materialistic in its view, but is purely imaginary and fatalistic. Baha'u'llah teaches that after its separation from the body, the human soul begins to lead a new life, of which we can have no definite knowledge, in the same way as the child in the embryo cannot visualize the type of life it is destined to lead in this world. (10 Aug. 1934 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in compilation on reincarnation and the nature and progress of the soul)

You ask an explanation of what happens to us after we leave this world.... All we know is that our consciousness, our personality, endures in some new state, and that that world is as much better than this one as this one is better than the dark womb of our mother was. LG#701 (3 Oct. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The passage on p. 156 of 'Gleanings' regarding the evolution of the soul after death clearly proves that the soul after its separation from the body keeps its individuality and its consciousness both in relation to other souls and to the human beings in the world. LG#1597 (26 Nov. 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Without doubt, these holy souls who are gifted with pure eyes and spiritual vision will be initiated into all secrets of the whole kingdom of light and will view the revealed beauty of God. In the same way they will meet with all friends of God of past and present times in the heavenly concourse. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, in Sonne der Wahrheit, vol. 1/2, pp. 46-47)

In the next world, man will find himself freed from many of the disabilities under which he now suffers. Those who have passed on through death, have a sphere of their own. It is not removed from ours; their work, the work of the Kingdom, is ours; but it is sanctified from what we call 'time and place'.... Those who have ascended have different attributes from those who are still on earth, yet there is no real separation. In prayer there is a mingling of station, a mingling of condition. Pray for them as they pray for you! AL.096, SW v04#19 p231

...the tests and trials of God take place in this world, not in the world of the Kingdom. SWAB#163 p194

But as the effulgences of the Sun of Truth have dawned forth upon you and ye have attained everlasting life, ye shall shine and sparkle forevermore from the horizon of existence. SWAB#068 p105

By the sorrows which afflict the beauty of the All-Glorious! Such is the station ordained for the true believer that if to an extent smaller than a needle's eye the glory of that station were to be unveiled to mankind, every beholder would be consumed away in his longing to attain it. For this reason it hath been decreed that in this earthly life the full measure of the glory of his own station should remain concealed from the eyes of such a believer. WOB.108, ADJ#109 p115 (Baha'u'llah)

We dare not, in this Day, lift the veil that concealeth the exalted station which every true believer can attain, for the joy which such a revelation must provoke might well cause a few to faint away and die. GWB#006 p009-010

If it be faithful unto God, it will reflect His light, and will, eventually, return unto Him. If it fail, however, in its allegiance to its Creator, it will become a victim to self and passion, and will, in the end, sink in their depths.... Every soul that walketh humbly with its God, in this Day, and cleaveth unto Him, shall find itself invested with the honor and glory of all goodly names and stations. GWB#082 p159, Ruhi1.3.8

It is clear and evident that all men shall, after their physical death, estimate the worth of their deeds, and realize all that their hands have wrought.... They that are the followers of the one true God shall, the moment they depart out of this life, experience such joy and gladness as would be impossible to describe, while they that live in error shall be seized with such fear and trembling, and shall be filled with such consternation, as nothing can exceed. GWB#086 p171

When the human soul soareth out of this transient heap of dust and riseth into the world of God, then veils will fall away, and verities will come to light, and all things unknown before will be made clear, and hidden truths be understood. ...once he hath hastened away from this mortal place into the Kingdom of God, then he will be born in the spirit; then the eye of his perception will open, the ear of his soul will hearken, and all the truths of which he was ignorant before will be made plain and clear. SWAB#149 p177

The Baha'i view of 'reincarnation' is essentially different from the Hindu conception. The Baha'is believe in the attributes and qualities, but maintain that the essence or the reality of things cannot be made to return. Every being keeps its own individuality, but some of his qualities can be transmitted. The doctrine of metempsychosis upheld by the Hindus is fallacious. LG#1820 (27 Mar. 1938)

Praise be unto God, Who hath ordained death to be a door for meeting Him, a means of reunion with Him, and the cause of eternal life to His servants. Through it He layeth bare the secrets of His Book and of all that is concealed in His knowledge. AvK1.268 (Baha'u'llah), PA00384

As to thy question regarding the death of the soul of the believer: know that each thing returneth to its origin... Observe how his body returneth to clay, and his essential body returneth to the Gates, and his essential soul returneth to the manifestation of praise, by which is meant the Sun of Reality. (the Bab, provisional translation, AvK1.267-268)

The Prophets and Messengers of God have concealed the knowledge of that condition for the sake of protecting the human race. In truth, were one to reflect deeply upon that which the Pen of the Most High hath revealed on this subject, it would be realized with absolute certainty that the faculty needed to perceive that world hath not been allowed to function in this world lest man should perceive it and witness its reality. However, this much can be disclosed: Those souls which, at the moment of their death, are detached from all things and purified from the doubts of the peoples of the world, shall ascend [unto the loftiest chambers of Paradise]. I swear by God! The lights which these souls radiate is responsible for the appearance of sciences, arts, and crafts, and for the maintenance of the world of being. Such a soul shall endure forever; its state of consciousness and perception, its power and capacity are beyond the minds of mortal men to grasp. The lights of these souls train the world and its peoples. Were the truth of this matter to be fully unveiled, everyone would seek to take his own life and the affairs of the world would be thrown into confusion. PA00366, AvK1.297, AvK1.277 (Baha'u'llah)

Although all the worlds of God have ever circled around this world, and will always continue to circle around it, still, in every world for every soul a destiny is determined and appointed. Therefore, think not that what hath been revealed in the Book of God is idle talk. Far exalted is God from such an imagining! I swear by the Daystar of the heaven of divine knowledge, that, in all truth, matchless paradises ever have been and shall be theirs. Although in this first life the meaning of Paradise is His good-pleasure and entrance into His Cause, after the ascension of the believers from this world, they shall gain admittance into matchless paradises and shall enjoy inestimable delights. Those paradises are the outcome of the deeds which they have performed in this world. AvK1.279-280 (Baha'u'llah, Lawh-i-Yusuf); PA00367

In truth were that lofty and glorious station to be revealed to an extent smaller than a needle's eye before the eyes of them that dwell on earth, they would, one and all, be so filled with joy and ecstasy as to be consumed thereby. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.286, Fire and Light #3, in The Baha'i World, vol. 5, p. 61)

When the soul of man hasteneth to the realm of God, it will find a world of lights, and one of the requisites of light is the disclosure of traces, the rending of veils, the penetration of mysteries, and the revelation of truth. The souls of the believers, by the requisite of the spiritual world, will obtain eternal fellowship and everlasting reunion with the loved ones of God. Bisharatu'l-Nur p. 298; PC00590

When the soul of man ascendeth to the world of heavenly bestowals it will certainly lift off the veil from this material world, for every higher state comprehendeth the states inferior to itself. An inferior state, however, is incapable of grasping the reality of whatever transcendeth its station. Man, for instance, hath proceeded from the mineral kingdom to the human kingdom, and in the human condition he unveileth the mysteries of the mineral world. He is similarly informed of the plant kingdom, and understandeth the world of the animal. He comprehendeth all these states. But the mineral world is utterly uninformed of the sanctified world of man. Charitable deeds and good works performed on behalf of departed souls will certainly have a beneficial influence. AvK1.293, MA2.027ff, PC00510

Concerning what occurreth after man ascendeth from this contingent world to the realm of the placeless. All the conditions of Heaven and Hell are spiritual in nature, although that world is not separated from this world. Its separation, in truth, is like the separation of the human kingdom from the kingdom of the mineral, for the mineral is unaware of the human world. As for the unveiling of the beauty of the Holy Manifestations at the time of ascending to the limitless worlds, this pertaineth to the fact that the material world and the perceptions of the body are a metaphor while the world of the spirit is reality itself. When the morning of reality dawneth, the realities of all created things will become apparent, the heedless will become conscious, and the slumberers will awaken. Then will they behold the Manifestations of Truth clearly and unmistakably. AvK1.293, PC00501 (provisional translation)

The people of Paradise, through the infinite grace of God, will continue to progress through paradises forever, for the grace of God hath no end. God, in truth, will never pass away under any circumstances, and He hath created all things to endure, and not, by virtue of His grace, to cease or perish. The cause of a servant's progress in the next world is the purity of his intention while undertaking deeds for the sake of God during the eternal duration. If his intention is pure in that state, he shall advance in the grades of Paradise at the behest of God, and naught shall be diminished for him. God, thy Lord, is powerful over all things. AvK1.294, PB00007 (provisional translation)

Were the station of any faithful, sincere, and confident believer to be revealed to the peoples of the world to an extent less than the eye of a needle, they would all prefer to die rather than to live and would hasten to the throne of the Most High. Gracious God! To die for the sake of My love is the cause of eternal life and everlasting existence. In the anguish of death tranquility is preordained and in its torment endless delight is concealed. Blessed be the one who hath attained to that peace which the passage of centuries cannot alter nor the revolution of ages disturb. For every true believer this change of worlds is the occasion of entering a sublime paradise and the cause of obtaining such blessings as none but God, the All-Powerful, can reckon. God's irresistible injunction and fixed decree is hellfire for the wicked and light for those that act uprightly. Were the whole world a pen, and the heavens and the earth a tablet, and the seas of the world ink, it would still be unable to describe the station of those who truly uphold the Cause of God or to depict the predestined favors singled out for them. AvK1.296; PA00309

In regard to charitable deeds and good works, these will certainly have the effect of minimizing the sins and augmenting the merits of the dead, for souls are benefited by such charitable deeds. It is like asking for forgiveness, and since the outcome of asking for forgiveness is certain, charitable deeds and good works are preferable and more excellent. AvK1.302, MA2.106; PC00529

Know that the Lord of the world, glorified and exalted be He, will take the soul of the believer and cause it to ascend unto the highest heaven. In this station of spiritual glory the souls of the believers will become acquainted with each other in the path which the Lord of the world hath foreordained. They will advance together toward the loftiest stations, and shall not return to the material world until the time when the eternal Will purposeth to return the creation and make the world anew. But in this new world all those called into being are new souls. It is not that a former soul becometh incarnated in another person, or that another individual becometh the soul of a former individual. Nay, rather they correspond with each other through manifestations; that is to say, he will be in the station of his soul, but his soul is not incarnated and the state of the soul does not become embodied.... Understanding the world of souls is impossible in this world of bodies. That world is unlike anything you can conceive in your imagination. In these perishable bodies one cannot perceive the immortal worlds, save through that which ye sometimes behold in a dream. AvK1.308-309; PA00375; BH05340

...after their ascension holy souls are endowed with a tremendous spiritual power and are able to release vast outpourings of grace.... The progress of the soul after ascending to the Kingdom is free of the attributes of time and place. The meaning of progress after death is progress in perfection, not spatial progress. It is like the progress of the child from the embryonic state to the state of maturity and reason, from the state of ignorance to the state of knowledge, and from the state of imperfection to the state of perfection. As the divine perfections are infinite, consequently, there is no limitation to the advancement of the soul. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.330, MKT3:185)

The mysteries of which man is heedless in this earthly world, those will he discover in the heavenly world, and there will he be informed of the secret of truth; how much more will he recognize or discover persons with whom he has associated. Undoubtedly, the holy souls who find a pure eye and are favored with insight will, in the kingdom of lights, be acquainted with all mysteries, and will seek the bounty of witnessing the reality of every great soul. They will even manifestly behold the Beauty of God in that world. Likewise will they find all the friends of God, both those of former and recent times, present in the heavenly assemblage. TAB.205, Ruhi1.3.15

In His Tablets Baha'u'llah says that were we able to comprehend the facilities that await us in the world to come, death would lose its sting; nay rather we would welcome it as a gate-way to a realm immeasurably higher and nobler than this home of suffering we call our earth. You should therefore think of their blessings and comfort yourself for your momentary separation. In time all of us will join our departed ones and share their joys. LG#695 (13 Jan. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Baha'u'llah says that were we to have the proper vision to see the blessings of the other world we would not bear to endure one more hour of existence upon the earth. The reason why we are deprived of that vision is because otherwise no one would care to remain and the whole fabric of society will be destroyed. LG#696 (22 Oct. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Concerning the question you have raised regarding the spiritual world beyond and our relation to it. After death the soul of man permanently departs from the material plane, and enters the world of the spirit, in which it can indefinitely progress and advance. The nature of that spiritual world is essentially different and superior to our earthly life here. (10 Apr. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in "Developing Distinctive Baha'i Communities")

With reference to Baha'u'llah's Tablet in which He says that all the relatives of believers will reach the Kingdom in the other world; by this is meant only a partial attainment. They can, however, progress indefinitely, as spiritual progress in the other world is limitless, and is not confined to those who have attained unto the knowledge and recognition of the Cause while still in this world. LG#699 (30 Apr. 1940 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Regarding your question concerning the possibility of the soul losing its identity. ...the Teachings are quite clear concerning the fact that the human soul never loses its identity. (22 Jun. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

You ask an explanation of what happens to us after we leave this world: This is a question which none of the Prophets have ever answered in detail, for the very simple reason that you cannot convert to a person's mind something entirely different from everything they have ever experienced. 'Abdu'l-Baha gave the wonderful example of the relation of this life to the next life being like the child in the womb; it develops eyes, ears, hands, feet, a tongue, and yet it has nothing to see or hear, it cannot walk or grasp things or speak; all these faculties it is developing for this world. If you tried to explain to an embryo what this world is like could never understand -- but it understands when it is born, and its faculties can be used. So we cannot picture our state in the next world. All we know is that our consciousness, our personality, endures in some new state, and that that world is as much better than this one as this one is better than the dark womb of our mother was... LG#701 (3 Oct. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Those who have never had any opportunity of hearing of the Faith but who lived good lives will no doubt be treated with the greatest love and mercy in the next world and reap their full reward. DG#108, DG#167 (19 Nov 1945 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As we almost never attain any spiritual goal without seeing the next goal we must attain still beyond our reach, he urges you, who, have come so far already on the path of spirituality, not to fret about the distance you still have to cover! It is an indefinite journey, and, no doubt in the next world the soul is privileged to draw closer to God than is possible when bound on this physical plane. LG#704 (3 Mar. 1955 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As to Paradise: It is a reality and there can be no doubt about it, and now in this world it is realized through love of Me and My good-pleasure. Whosoever attaineth unto it God will aid him in this world below, and after death He will enable him to gain admittance into Paradise whose vastness is as that of heaven and earth. Therein the Maids of glory and holiness will wait upon him in the daytime and in the night season, while the day-star of the unfading beauty of his Lord will at all times shed its radiance upon him and he will shine so brightly that no one shall bear to gaze at him. TB.189

To pray for the dead is very beneficial and helpful and is always a source of comfort and satisfaction. LG#681 (9 Jan. 1934)

Asked if a soul is ever annihilated, 'Abdu'l-Baha replied, No, it will be placed in different conditions by God's mercy and will eventually progress (From notes of Mrs. Aline S Devin's visit to Akka, October 1900)

In the same way, when one who is an unbeliever passes away, it is possible through the power of God for him to attain a high station, but he can never do it by himself as his station is fixed so far as he is concerned. (Words of Abdu'l-Baha from pilgrim notes of Sara Herron in Akka about 1900)

Those who possess my Tao are princes in this life and rulers in the hereafter. Those who do not possess my Tao behold the light of day in this life and become clods of earth in the hereafter. Nowadays, all living things spring from the dust and to the dust return. But I will lead you through the portals of Eternity to wander in the great wilds of Infinity. My light is the light of sun and moon. My life is the life of Heaven and Earth. Before me all is nebulous; behind me all is dark, unknown. Men may all die, but I endure for ever. Chuang Tzu, 11 (Tolerance)

It is even possible for those who have died in sin and unbelief to be transformed, that is, to become the object of divine forgiveness. This is through the grace of God and not through His justice, for grace is to bestow without desert, and justice is to give that which is deserved. As we have the power to pray for those souls here, so too will we have the same power in the next world, the world of the Kingdom. Are not all the creatures in that world the creation of God? They must therefore be able to progress in that world as well. And just as they can seek illumination here through supplication, so too can they plead there for forgiveness and seek illumination through prayer and supplication. Thus, as souls can progress in this world through their entreaties and supplications, or through the prayers of holy souls, so too after death can they progress through their own prayers and supplications, particularly if they become the object of the intercession of the holy Manifestations. SAQ#62.7

The vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, and the human spirit--the rational soul, that is--do not return after death to this world of the "first creation". As for that spirit of faith by which is meant the light of guidance, and that Holy Spirit, the reality of divine revelation, these both return, in every dispensation and cycle, to this the realm of the "first creation". Know thou that when the human spirit perceives the fire from the direction of the Mount and becomes exposed to the divine fragrances, it attains the station of true life, and We shall surely give it a goodly life. In the next world, it will remember what befell it in the first creation, and "We have removed thy veil from thee, and piercing is thy sight this Day." But when it falls to the lowest depths of ignorance and blindness, it can hardly perceive anything, being immersed in triple darkness. (AB04973, first half is authorized translation, www.bahai.org/r/118302719)

The death that thou hast heard of referreth to the world of appearances, to the outer robe and not to the reality or essence. There can be no doubt that the realities of things will continue to be unveiled and revealed through all the worlds, in diverse ways and varying forms. (Provisional translation, BH00423)

Thou hast asked regarding the soul and the spirit. By the soul is meant the reality of man that is inclined towards the contingent world, and is associated with the worldly aspects of human life. This definition of the soul is known and referred to as the natural human spirit that is common to all mankind. So in this sense, the spirit and the soul are one and the same. But the heavenly spirit is that reality of man that is derived from the outpourings of divine Grace, and blessed by the splendours of the Sun of Truth. The heavenly spirit is confined to true believers. All others remain deprived of this holy breath and are such as are referred to as 'the dead' in the language common to the followers of mystical truth. (Provisional translation, Malakut-i-Vujud, pp. 110-111)

True paradise for the soul is to enjoy near access to the eternal Beauty, while hell is to be far removed from that radiant Light. It is the difference between perfection and deficiency, sublimity and abasement, light and darkness. Though the soul is immaterial in nature, it is only transcendent in relation to the world of matter. Within itself and in its own essence, there existeth ranks and stations, both high and low. Though free from the limitations of this contingent world, yet in the world of its own, the stages, distinctions, and conditions are limitless. In like manner, its return unto God is not like a return of the part to the whole, such as that of the drop to the sea. Nay, such a return may be likened, rather, to the repair of the birds to the rose garden of tender mercies of the ever-forgiving Lord. Behold how souls, even while associated with the body, are distinguished one from the other in all respects. Some live at the loftiest heights of consciousness and excellence, while others exist in the lowest plains of degradation. Likewise, after returning to the realms of God, such differences and distinctions do exist... (Provisional translation, AB01050)




All things must needs have a cause, a motive power, an animating principle. These souls and symbols of detachment have provided, and will continue to provide, the supreme moving impulse in the world of being. GWB#081 p157

...every malady afflicting the body of man is an impediment that preventeth the soul from manifesting its inherent might and power. When it leaveth the body, however, it will evince such ascendancy, and reveal such influence as no force on earth can equal. Every pure, every refined and sanctified soul will be endowed with tremendous power, and shall rejoice with exceeding gladness. GWB#080 p154

And now concerning thy question regarding the soul of man and its survival after death. Know thou of a truth that the soul, after its separation from the body, will continue to progress until it attaineth the presence of God, in a state and condition which neither the revolution of ages and centuries, nor the changes and chances of this world, can alter....Blessed is the soul which, at the hour of its separation from the body, is sanctified from the vain imaginings of the peoples of the world. Such a soul liveth and moveth in accordance with the Will of its Creator, and entereth the all-highest Paradise. The Maids of Heaven, inmates of the loftiest mansions, will circle around it, and the Prophets of God and His chosen ones will seek its companionship. With them that soul will freely converse, and will recount unto them that which it hath been made to endure in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds.... The nature of the soul after death can never be described, nor is it meet and permissible to reveal its whole character to the eyes of men.... The light which these souls radiate is responsible for the progress of the world and the advancement of its peoples. They are like unto leaven which leaveneth the world of being, and constitute the animating force through which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest. GWB#081 p155-157, Ruhi1.3.3, Ruhi1.3.14

Thou hast, moreover, asked Me concerning the state of the soul after its separation from the body. Know thou, of a truth, that if the soul of man hath walked in the ways of God, it will, assuredly, return and be gathered to the glory of the Beloved. By the righteousness of God! It shall attain a station such as no pen can depict, or tongue describe. The soul that hath remained faithful to the Cause of God, and stood unwaveringly firm in His Path shall, after his ascension, be possessed of such power that all the worlds which the Almighty hath created can benefit through him. Such a soul provideth, at the bidding of the Ideal King and Divine Educator, the pure leaven that leaveneth the world of being, and furnisheth the power through which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest. GWB#082 p161, Ruhi1.3.16

As to the influence of holy Beings and the continuance of Their grace to mankind after They have put away Their human form, this is, to Baha'is, an indisputable fact. Indeed, the flooding grace, the streaming splendours of the holy Manifestations appear after Their ascension from this world. SWAB#031 p065

The Prophets and Messengers of God have concealed the knowledge of that condition for the sake of protecting the human race. In truth, were one to reflect deeply upon that which the Pen of the Most High hath revealed on this subject, it would be realized with absolute certainty that the faculty needed to perceive that world hath not been allowed to function in this world lest man should perceive it and witness its reality. However, this much can be disclosed: Those souls which, at the moment of their death, are detached from all things and purified from the doubts of the peoples of the world, shall ascend [unto the loftiest chambers of Paradise]. I swear by God! The lights which these souls radiate is responsible for the appearance of sciences, arts, and crafts, and for the maintenance of the world of being. Such a soul shall endure forever; its state of consciousness and perception, its power and capacity are beyond the minds of mortal men to grasp. The lights of these souls train the world and its peoples. Were the truth of this matter to be fully unveiled, everyone would seek to take his own life and the affairs of the world would be thrown into confusion. PA00366, AvK1.297, AvK1.277 (Baha'u'llah)

The steadfast and detached souls who are purified from the changes and chances of the world have ever been the trainers of the world of existence. By God! After their ascension their realities are powerful and all-embracing. This station will remain hidden and sealed under the protection of God, and preserved within the treasury of infallibility ('ismat). The holy and detached spirits who have ascended from this world through the light of renunciation are the principal cause of the training of the world and of the appearance of crafts and wisdom. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.279.05)

...after their ascension holy souls are endowed with a tremendous spiritual power and are able to release vast outpourings of grace.... The progress of the soul after ascending to the Kingdom is free of the attributes of time and place. The meaning of progress after death is progress in perfection, not spatial progress. It is like the progress of the child from the embryonic state to the state of maturity and reason, from the state of ignorance to the state of knowledge, and from the state of imperfection to the state of perfection. As the divine perfections are infinite, consequently, there is no limitation to the advancement of the soul. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.330, MKT3:185)




He should forgive the sinful, and never despise his low estate, for none knoweth what his own end shall be. How often hath a sinner, at the hour of death, attained to the essence of faith, and, quaffing the immortal draught, hath taken his flight unto the celestial Concourse. And how often hath a devout believer, at the hour of his soul's ascension, been so changed as to fall into the nethermost fire. KI#214 p194-195, GWB#125 p266, Ruhi1.3.14




And now concerning thy question regarding the soul of man and its survival after death. Know thou of a truth that the soul, after its separation from the body, will continue to progress until it attaineth the presence of God, in a state and condition which neither the revolution of ages and centuries, nor the changes and chances of this world, can alter....Blessed is the soul which, at the hour of its separation from the body, is sanctified from the vain imaginings of the peoples of the world. Such a soul liveth and moveth in accordance with the Will of its Creator, and entereth the all-highest Paradise. The Maids of Heaven, inmates of the loftiest mansions, will circle around it, and the Prophets of God and His chosen ones will seek its companionship. With them that soul will freely converse, and will recount unto them that which it hath been made to endure in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds.... The nature of the soul after death can never be described, nor is it meet and permissible to reveal its whole character to the eyes of men.... The light which these souls radiate is responsible for the progress of the world and the advancement of its peoples. They are like unto leaven which leaveneth the world of being, and constitute the animating force through which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest. GWB#081 p155-157, Ruhi1.3.3, Ruhi1.3.14




Know thou that immortality belongeth to those souls in whom hath been breathed the spirit of life from God. All save these are lifeless - they are the dead, even as Christ hath explained in the Gospel text. He whose eyes the Lord hath opened will see the souls of men in the stations they will occupy after their release from the body. He will find the living ones thriving within the precincts of their Lord, and the dead sunk down in the lowest abyss of perdition. SWAB#159 p189-190, TAB.453

...those souls who are veiled from God, although they exist both in this world and in the world to come, are non-existent and forgotten in relation to the sanctified existence of the children of the divine Kingdom. SAQ#67.10 (was SAQ.243)

Those souls who are not vivified and attracted by the Holy Spirit are accounted among the dead, because their souls are deprived of the Breath of the Holy Spirit; and these, after physical death, are in a certain condition, having feeling and discernment in their environment; but in comparison with the pure souls who have been vivified by the Holy Spirit they are as dead, and deprived of life. SW v14#02 p038 (Tablet to Mr. E.C. Helbry)

The spirits of heavenly souls will find eternal life, that is, they will attain the highest and most great stations of perfection; but the spirits of the heedless souls, although they are eternal, yet they are in a world of imperfection, concealment and ignorance. This is a concise answer. Contemplate and meditate upon it, in order that thou mayest comprehend the reality of the mysteries in detail. For instance: No matter how much the mineral has an existence and life, yet in comparison to man, it is entirely non-existent and deprived of life. For where man is translated from life to death, his comparative station will be that of a mineral existence. TAB.550

As to the question of annihilation and destruction of the spirits: Mr. ... hath not fully understood the matter or else the translator hath made some mistake. It was not intended to convey the idea that the unbelieving souls are absolutely annihilated. Nay, rather, it was meant that the existence of the evil spirits in comparison to the existence of the sanctified souls was like unto annihilation. As you clearly behold, the existence of mineral in comparison with the existence of man is like unto non-being. When the body of man is destroyed and disintegrated, it returneth to the mineral. TAB.iv-v

Thou hast asked regarding the soul and the spirit. By the soul is meant the reality of man that is inclined towards the contingent world, and is associated with the worldly aspects of human life. This definition of the soul is known and referred to as the natural human spirit that is common to all mankind. So in this sense, the spirit and the soul are one and the same. But the heavenly spirit is that reality of man that is derived from the outpourings of divine Grace, and blessed by the splendours of the Sun of Truth. The heavenly spirit is confined to true believers. All others remain deprived of this holy breath and are such as are referred to as 'the dead' in the language common to the followers of mystical truth. (Provisional translation, Malakut-i-Vujud, pp. 110-111)




And now concerning thy question whether human souls continue to be conscious one of another after their separation from the body. Know thou that the souls of the people of Baha, who have entered and been established within the Crimson Ark, shall associate and commune intimately one with another, and shall be so closely associated in their lives, their aspirations, their aims and strivings as to be even as one soul.... The people of Baha, who are the inmates of the Ark of God, are, one and all, well aware of one another's state and condition, and are united in the bonds of intimacy and fellowship. Such a state, however, must depend upon their faith and their conduct. They that are of the same grade and station are fully aware of one another's capacity, character, accomplishments and merits. They that are of a lower grade, however, are incapable of comprehending adequately the station, or of estimating the merits, of those that rank above them. GWB#086 p169-170

As to thy question regarding discoveries made by the soul after it hath put off its human form: certainly, that world is a world of perceptions and discoveries, for the interposed veil will be lifted away and the human spirit will gaze upon souls that are above, below, and on a par with itself. It is similar to the condition of a human being in the womb, where his eyes are veiled, and all things are hidden away from him. Once he is born out of the uterine world and entereth this life, he findeth it, with relation to that of the womb, to be a place of perceptions and discoveries, and he observeth all things through his outer eye. In the same way, once he hath departed this life, he will behold, in that world whatsoever was hidden from him here: but there he will look upon and comprehend all things with his inner eye. There will he gaze on his fellows and his peers, and those in the ranks above him, and those below. SWAB#070 p170-171

...the God of the Universe ... removeth the spirit of the believer and elevateth it to the exalted of the most exalted. In this spiritual state the spirits of the believers recognize each other in the manner that hath been ordained by the Lord of the Worlds. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.308)

...in this Day, the people of Baha -- those riders of the Ark of Eternity and voyagers upon the Ocean of Grandeur -- are known to one another, while other than these companions have no knowledge of them; or if they have, then only to the degree that a blind man hath knowledge of the sun. (From the Lawh-i-Salman) PA00075




The world in which the soul resideth is perpetual and unchanging. It is a spiritual world; it is the world of the Kingdom, which is eternal and everlasting. All the luminous bodies existing in this infinite space are composed of elements, and since every composition in the end must become decomposed, they are therefore deprived of immortality. The world of the Kingdom, however, is free and sanctified from composition, and is therefore eternal and everlasting. AvK1.268, MKT3:174; AB00457




As to progress after death: know that after death it is the divine world. Progress is possible, but it depends upon the generosity of God, and not upon the efforts and struggles of man. In other words, progress becomes possible only through grace, because the progress from one rank to another depends entirely upon divine generosity, whereas on the contrary, progress toward perfection is obtainable through man's effort. For example, the progress of a mineral reality to the rank of a vegetable is to be obtained only through generosity; likewise the passage of a vegetable reality to the rank of animal reality to the rank of the human is also due to mercy and generosity; likewise the passage of a human reality to the world of the Kingdom depends entirely upon generosity. What I mean to say is this: that the passage from one rank to another depends wholly upon grace, whereas the acquiring of perfections is dependent upon man's efforts and struggles. Take mankind: God created man from the mineral enabled him to attain to his present station; now by his efforts and struggles, he can acquire human perfections and seek to increase in virtue and purity. It is therefore clear that the passage from one rank to a higher rank depends entirely on generosity, whereas the acquiring of virtues is possible through effort and will-power. In consequence, after the passage through this corporeal world into the divine world, the traversing of ranks is possible, but only through the grace and bounty of God. BSC#954 p.494 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Moral life consists in the government of one's self. Immortality is government of the human soul by the Divine Will. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of Akka, p. 5)




Regarding your question concerning a deep and profound study of the teachings: of course the Baha'is can and should meditate upon the significances of the writings, and endeavour to grasp their meaning to the utmost.... However certain things are, by their very nature, a mystery to us, at least in our present stage of development. One of these is what the next world, the purely spiritual world, is like.         To try and visualize that realm in the terms of this physical one is absolutely impossible. 'Abdu'l-Baha has likened the relation of our souls in this world to our future life after death with the babe in its Mother's womb. All the faculties the infant is developing are, in the womb, absolutely useless to it. However, when it is born, it suddenly discovers their use, uses its eyes, its ears, hands, lungs, etc. in its new environment. Nor could the baby have possibly visualized its life after birth, while still unborn. So we cannot possibly understand or visualize what the condition and state of the future, purely spiritual, world is. To say it has time, space, and so on, is to delineate it by terms applicable to this material world and alien to that spiritual one.         The Guardian feels that, while there is no harm in speculation on these abstract matters, one should not attach too much importance to them. Science itself is far from having resolved the question of the nature of matter, and we cannot, in this physical world, grasp the spiritual one more than in a very fragmentary and inadequate manner. LG#700 (1st paragraph), LG#702 (last para.) (19 Jan. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

And now concerning thy question regarding the soul of man and its survival after death. Know thou of a truth that the soul, after its separation from the body, will continue to progress until it attaineth the presence of God, in a state and condition which neither the revolution of ages and centuries, nor the changes and chances of this world, can alter....Blessed is the soul which, at the hour of its separation from the body, is sanctified from the vain imaginings of the peoples of the world. Such a soul liveth and moveth in accordance with the Will of its Creator, and entereth the all-highest Paradise. The Maids of Heaven, inmates of the loftiest mansions, will circle around it, and the Prophets of God and His chosen ones will seek its companionship. With them that soul will freely converse, and will recount unto them that which it hath been made to endure in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds.... The nature of the soul after death can never be described, nor is it meet and permissible to reveal its whole character to the eyes of men.... The light which these souls radiate is responsible for the progress of the world and the advancement of its peoples. They are like unto leaven which leaveneth the world of being, and constitute the animating force through which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest. GWB#081 p155-157, Ruhi1.3.3, Ruhi1.3.14

The mysteries of man's physical death and of his return have not been divulged, and still remain unread. By the righteousness of God! Were they to be revealed, they would evoke such fear and sorrow that some would perish, while others would be so filled with gladness as to wish for death.... Death proffereth unto every confident believer the cup that is life indeed. It bestoweth joy, and is the bearer of gladness. It conferreth the gift of everlasting life. As to those that have tasted of the fruit of man's earthly existence, which is the recognition of the one true God, exalted be His glory, their life hereafter is such as We are unable to describe. GWB#165 p345-346, Ruhi1.3.4

Concerning the future life what Baha'u'llah says is that the soul will continue to ascend through many worlds. What those worlds are and what their nature is we cannot know. LG#682 (18 Oct. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The Baha'i view of the life after death can in no way be reconciled with certain Indian and Sufi doctrines which teach that the human soul can pass from one body to another. This doctrine, known as metempsychosis, is not only too materialistic in its view, but is purely imaginary and fatalistic. Baha'u'llah teaches that after its separation from the body, the human soul begins to lead a new life, of which we can have no definite knowledge, in the same way as the child in the embryo cannot visualize the type of life it is destined to lead in this world. (10 Aug. 1934 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in compilation on reincarnation and the nature and progress of the soul)

By the sorrows which afflict the beauty of the All-Glorious! Such is the station ordained for the true believer that if to an extent smaller than a needle's eye the glory of that station were to be unveiled to mankind, every beholder would be consumed away in his longing to attain it. For this reason it hath been decreed that in this earthly life the full measure of the glory of his own station should remain concealed from the eyes of such a believer. WOB.108, ADJ#109 p115 (Baha'u'llah)

We dare not, in this Day, lift the veil that concealeth the exalted station which every true believer can attain, for the joy which such a revelation must provoke might well cause a few to faint away and die. GWB#006 p009-010

The Prophets and Messengers of God have concealed the knowledge of that condition for the sake of protecting the human race. In truth, were one to reflect deeply upon that which the Pen of the Most High hath revealed on this subject, it would be realized with absolute certainty that the faculty needed to perceive that world hath not been allowed to function in this world lest man should perceive it and witness its reality. However, this much can be disclosed: Those souls which, at the moment of their death, are detached from all things and purified from the doubts of the peoples of the world, shall ascend [unto the loftiest chambers of Paradise]. I swear by God! The lights which these souls radiate is responsible for the appearance of sciences, arts, and crafts, and for the maintenance of the world of being. Such a soul shall endure forever; its state of consciousness and perception, its power and capacity are beyond the minds of mortal men to grasp. The lights of these souls train the world and its peoples. Were the truth of this matter to be fully unveiled, everyone would seek to take his own life and the affairs of the world would be thrown into confusion. PA00366, AvK1.297, AvK1.277 (Baha'u'llah)

Know that the Lord of the world, glorified and exalted be He, will take the soul of the believer and cause it to ascend unto the highest heaven. In this station of spiritual glory the souls of the believers will become acquainted with each other in the path which the Lord of the world hath foreordained. They will advance together toward the loftiest stations, and shall not return to the material world until the time when the eternal Will purposeth to return the creation and make the world anew. But in this new world all those called into being are new souls. It is not that a former soul becometh incarnated in another person, or that another individual becometh the soul of a former individual. Nay, rather they correspond with each other through manifestations; that is to say, he will be in the station of his soul, but his soul is not incarnated and the state of the soul does not become embodied.... Understanding the world of souls is impossible in this world of bodies. That world is unlike anything you can conceive in your imagination. In these perishable bodies one cannot perceive the immortal worlds, save through that which ye sometimes behold in a dream. AvK1.308-309; PA00375; BH05340

In His Tablets Baha'u'llah says that were we able to comprehend the facilities that await us in the world to come, death would lose its sting; nay rather we would welcome it as a gate-way to a realm immeasurably higher and nobler than this home of suffering we call our earth. You should therefore think of their blessings and comfort yourself for your momentary separation. In time all of us will join our departed ones and share their joys. LG#695 (13 Jan. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Baha'u'llah says that were we to have the proper vision to see the blessings of the other world we would not bear to endure one more hour of existence upon the earth. The reason why we are deprived of that vision is because otherwise no one would care to remain and the whole fabric of society will be destroyed. LG#696 (22 Oct. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

You ask an explanation of what happens to us after we leave this world: This is a question which none of the Prophets have ever answered in detail, for the very simple reason that you cannot convert to a person's mind something entirely different from everything they have ever experienced. 'Abdu'l-Baha gave the wonderful example of the relation of this life to the next life being like the child in the womb; it develops eyes, ears, hands, feet, a tongue, and yet it has nothing to see or hear, it cannot walk or grasp things or speak; all these faculties it is developing for this world. If you tried to explain to an embryo what this world is like could never understand -- but it understands when it is born, and its faculties can be used. So we cannot picture our state in the next world. All we know is that our consciousness, our personality, endures in some new state, and that that world is as much better than this one as this one is better than the dark womb of our mother was... LG#701 (3 Oct. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

O Son of My Handmaid! Didst thou behold immortal sovereignty, thou wouldst strive to pass from this fleeting world. But to conceal the one from thee and to reveal the other is a mystery which none but the pure in heart can comprehend. PHW#41

Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. 1 Cor 2:9




Know thou that the distinction between male and female is an exigency of the physical world and hath no connection with the spirit; for the spirit and the world of the spirit are sanctified above such exigencies, and wholly beyond the reach of such changes as befall the physical body in the contingent world. In former ages, men enjoyed ascendancy over women because bodily might reigned supreme and the spirit was subject to its dominion. In this radiant age, however, since the power of the spirit hath transcended that of the body and assumed its ascendancy, authority and dominion over the human world, this physical distinction hath ceased to be of consequence; and, as the sway and influence of the spirit have become apparent, women have come to be the full equals of men. Today, therefore, there is no respect or circumstance in which a person's sex provideth grounds for the exercise of either discrimination or favour. (Abdu'l-Baha, authorized translation, AB03015)

O dust within the realm of grandeur! Masculinity (rajuliyyat) and femininity pertain to the soul, not to the body; to the spirit, not to clay. For these two attributes, in their corporeal form, are but illusion, whereas in their spiritual essence they are truth. Behold how it is observed: a male, with a frame mighty as an elephant, may be as abject as a feeble ant, lowly and weak; while behind the veil of chastity and modesty, a female may attain the pinnacle of strength and power. The former is enslaved by base desires, while the latter is ennobled by reason and discernment; the one is laden with sin, while the other is crowned with honor. Thus it becomes manifest and evident that true manhood and wisdom reside in the heart, not in water and clay. (provisional translation, AB06730)




The mysteries of man's physical death and of his return have not been divulged, and still remain unread. By the righteousness of God! Were they to be revealed, they would evoke such fear and sorrow that some would perish, while others would be so filled with gladness as to wish for death.... Death proffereth unto every confident believer the cup that is life indeed. It bestoweth joy, and is the bearer of gladness. It conferreth the gift of everlasting life. As to those that have tasted of the fruit of man's earthly existence, which is the recognition of the one true God, exalted be His glory, their life hereafter is such as We are unable to describe. GWB#165 p345-346, Ruhi1.3.4

I have made death a messenger of joy for thee; wherefore dost thou grieve? AHW#32

Death can hold no bitterness for the soul that loves. It brings with it all the sweetness and delights of love. There is no sadness in the remembrance of it when it opens the door to all joy. Nor can it be painful and oppressive when it is the end of all unhappiness and sorrow and the beginning of all good. Yes, the soul looks upon it as a friend and bride, and rejoices in thinking of it as the day of espousals. (St. John of the Cross, The Spiritual Canticle, St. 11)




Know thou that between Us and the creatures there standeth a ladder with three steps. The first is described as the world and its vanities, the second as the hereafter and all that is ordained therein, and the third as the Kingdom of Names. Whoso is enabled to traverse these stations shall attain the presence of the Lord of Names and Attributes in less than a moment. Take heed, O people of Baha, lest ye tarry at these stations. Pass over them as swiftly as a passing cloud. (Baha'u'llah, authorized translation, in Ma'idiy-i-Asmani 8:120-121) After ascending to the heavens of inner meanings, the wayfarers attain to three stations, meaning that the manifest Sun shines and becomes revealed in the mirrors of existing things according to these three ranks, although some consider the ranks of determinations to be five and have named them the five presences. Were I to explain in detail, a book would not suffice and I would not be able to fulfill it, just as that divine mystic and knower of divine mysteries, the lordly Imam, mentioned a drop from these stations in defining the world of the heart, which has surely come to your noble attention - that the final rank of these three stations is the journey from God unto God. In this station and rank, existence is effaced from self and subsists through the Truth. All are from God and unto God shall they return, and "Say: All things are from God" is sufficient witness and adequate proof of this point, as the mystic of Rum has said: "The seeker's attributes are annihilated in His attributes, While his essence remains through the survival of His Essence." This station certainly has no laws and seeks no customs, meaning all His deeds are pure justice even if outwardly they appear as injustice, and pure knowledge even if in form they appear as ignorance. BH02091




The vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, and the human spirit--the rational soul, that is--do not return after death to this world of the "first creation". As for that spirit of faith by which is meant the light of guidance, and that Holy Spirit, the reality of divine revelation, these both return, in every dispensation and cycle, to this the realm of the "first creation". Know thou that when the human spirit perceives the fire from the direction of the Mount and becomes exposed to the divine fragrances, it attains the station of true life, and We shall surely give it a goodly life. In the next world, it will remember what befell it in the first creation, and "We have removed thy veil from thee, and piercing is thy sight this Day." But when it falls to the lowest depths of ignorance and blindness, it can hardly perceive anything, being immersed in triple darkness. (AB04973, first half is authorized translation, www.bahai.org/r/118302719)

And now concerning thy question whether human souls continue to be conscious one of another after their separation from the body. Know thou that the souls of the people of Baha, who have entered and been established within the Crimson Ark, shall associate and commune intimately one with another, and shall be so closely associated in their lives, their aspirations, their aims and strivings as to be even as one soul. GWB#086

The death that thou hast heard of referreth to the world of appearances, to the outer robe and not to the reality or essence. There can be no doubt that the realities of things will continue to be unveiled and revealed through all the worlds, in diverse ways and varying forms. (Provisional translation, BH00423)
