



Some hold that the body is the substance [jawhar] and that it subsists by itself, and that the spirit is an accident which subsists through the substance of the body. The truth, however, is that the rational soul is the substance through which the body subsists. If the accident--the body--is destroyed, the substance--the spirit--remains.... The rational soul--the human spirit--did not descend into this body or subsist through it to begin with, that it should require some substance to depend upon after the constituent parts of the body have decomposed. On the contrary, the rational soul is the substance upon which the body depends. SAQ#66.2-4 (was SAQ.239)

The spirit and intelligence of man is essential, and that is the manifestation of divine virtues, the merciful bestowals of God, the eternal life and baptism through the Holy Spirit. PUP.070

In the world of existence there is nothing so important as spirit, nothing so essential as the spirit of man.  The spirit of man is the most noble of phenomena. PUP.239

Consider the rational faculty (nafs-i-natiqih) with which God hath endowed the essence of man. Examine thine own self, and behold how thy motion and stillness, thy will and purpose... and whatever else is related to, or transcendeth, thy physical senses or spiritual perceptions, all proceed from, and owe their existence to, this same faculty. GWB#083 p164

...the body of man is accidental; it is of no importance... PUP.060

The spirit of man is the most noble of phenomena. The spirit of man is the meeting between man and God. The spirit of man is the animus of human life and the collective center of all human virtues. PUP.239

...the spirit of man differentiates and distinguishes him above all the lower kingdoms.  It is this spirit to which the verse in the Old Testament refers when it states, 'And God said, Let us make man in our image, after Our likeness.'  The spirit of man alone penetrates the realities of God and partakes of the divine bounties. PUP.259

...the essential reality is the spirit, the foundation is the spirit, the life of man is due to the spirit; the happiness, the animus, the radiance, the glory of man - all are due to the spirit... PUP.279

The superiority of man over the rest of the created world is seen again in this, that man has a soul in which dwells the divine spirit; the souls of the lower creatures are inferior in their essence. PT#05:12 p025

Man - the true man - is soul, not body; though physically man belongs to the animal kingdom, yet his soul lifts him above the rest of creation. PT#28:6 p085

The human body is visible, the soul is invisible. It is the soul nevertheless that directs a man's faculties, that governs his humanity. PT#28:13 p086

Only the spirit is real; everything else is as shadow.  All bodies are disintegrated in the end; only reality subsists. ADP.137

Humanity consists of the spiritual reality and that reality is penetrative in all things, and it is that reality which discovers the invisible mysteries, and through that reality all sciences, arts and inventions become known and manifest. Whatever thou beholdest of the works of man is but a faint ray of that reality. It encircles all things and comprehends all things. The human spirit is the discoverer of things, the seer of things and comprehends all things... As the spirit of man environs all things, therefore he has discovered them and brought them from the unknown world into the arena of manifestation. SW v02#14 p007 (Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 88, From a Tablet to Ella Cooper)

The reality of man is his thought, not his material body. PT#02:1 p017
