



The lights of earth are all acceptable, but the center of effulgence is the sun, and we must direct our gaze to the sun. God is the Supreme Center. The more we turn toward this Center of Light, the greater will be our capacity. PUP.015

The greater the effort exerted for the refinement of this sublime and noble mirror, the more faithfully will it be made to reflect the glory of the names and attributes of God, and reveal the wonders of His signs and knowledge.... There can be no doubt whatever that, in consequence of the efforts which every man may consciously exert and as a result of the exertion of his own spiritual faculties, this mirror can be so cleansed from the dross of earthly defilements and purged from satanic fancies as to be able to draw nigh unto the meads of eternal holiness and attain the courts of everlasting fellowship. GWB#124 p262

...we must ever strive for capacity and seek readiness. As long as we lack susceptibility, the beauties and bounties of God cannot penetrate. Christ spoke a parable in which He said His words were like the seeds of the sower... PUP.149, referring to Mat 13:3-23, Mark 4:3-20

...we must develop capacity in order that the signs of the mercy of the Lord may be revealed in us.... Therefore, we must endeavor always, cry, supplicate and invoke the Kingdom of God to grant us full capacity in order that the bestowals of God may become revealed and manifest in us. PUP.195-196

Capacity is in accordance with striving and sincerity. ADP.118

During thy supplications to God ... consider how thine heart is cheered, thy soul delighted by the spirit of the love of God... By these attractions one's ability and capacity increase.... This is the mystery of supplication and the wisdom of stating one's wants. BNE.093 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

We must endeavor to increase our capacity daily, to strengthen and enlarge our capabilities for receiving them, to become as perfect mirrors.  The more polished and clean the mirror, the more effulgent is its reflection of the lights of the Sun of Truth. PUP.024
