



Do thou ponder these momentous happenings in thy heart, so that thou mayest apprehend the greatness of this Revelation, and perceive its stupendous glory. Then shall the spirit of faith, through the grace of the Merciful, be breathed into thy being, and thou shalt be established and abide upon the seat of certitude. KI#267 p236

This spiritual nature, which has come to exist through the grace of the divine Reality, is the sum of all perfections and proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit. It is the divine perfections; it is light, spirituality, guidance, exaltation, high-mindedness, justice, love, generosity, kindness to all, and charitable deeds: It is life upon life. This spiritual nature is an effulgence of the splendours of the Sun of Truth. SAQ#29.3 (was SAQ.118)

As to the fourth degree of spirit, it is the heavenly spirit, which is the spirit of faith and the outpouring grace of the All-Merciful. This spirit proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit, and through a power born of God it becomes the cause of everlasting life. It is that power which makes the earthly soul heavenly and the imperfect man perfect. It cleanses the impure, unlooses the tongue of the silent, sanctifies the bondslaves of passion and desire, and confers knowledge upon the ignorant. SAQ#36.6 (was SAQ.144-145)

...there is a third reality in man, the spiritual reality. Through its medium one discovers spiritual revelations, a celestial faculty which is infinite as regards the intellectual as well as physical realms. That power is conferred upon man through the breath of the Holy Spirit. FWU.051

Concerning the spirit of mercy which is from the command of God, it is the Holy Power, the divine confirmations, the knowledge of God, with which God aids whomsoever He willeth and thereby assists them to attain to the hidden visions and sure testimonies, and receive perfect and Ancient mercy and endless bounty. Then they will enter into the Paradise of Unity and the garden of eternity and rejoice through that with which God hath favored them with and will give thanks for His bounties.... (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:482 and AvK1.204ff)

When we speak of the soul we mean the motive power of this physical body.... There is, however, a faculty in man which unfolds to his vision the secrets of existence.... This is the power of the mind.... There is still another power which is differentiated from that of the soul and mind. This third power is the spirit which is an emanation from the divine bestower; it is the effulgence of the sun of reality, the radiation of the celestial world, the spirit of faith... Christ says, 'You must be baptized with the spirit.' This spirit of faith is the flame of reality, the life of humanity and the cause of eternal illumination. It inspires man to attain the virtues and perfections of the divine world. It is my hope that each one of you may become conscious of this flame. ADP.122

Know that the soul (nafs) which is common to all men cometh forth following the commingling of things and after their maturation, as thou dost observe in the germ: once it hath developed to its predestined stage, God manifesteth the soul that was latent within it.... As to the soul which is intended, in truth it hath been called forth by the Word of God and is such that, if it be kindled with the fire of the love of its Lord, neither the waters of opposition nor the oceans of the world can quench its flame. SLH.2#031

The spirit of man must acquire its bounties from the Kingdom of God in order that it may become the mirror and manifestation of lights and the dawning point of divine traces, because the human reality is like the soil.... only the reality of man can become the mirror wherein the lights of God are revealed. PUP.330

This station is the greatest of all stations, for this connection of the spirit of man with God is like unto a mirror and the sun of reality is reflected in it.  Thus it becomes the collective center of all the virtues; its emanation is the bestowal of the king of bestowers; its radiations are the manifold splendors of the infinite luminary; its sanctity is from the highest summit of divine essence.  This station is the station of heavenly inspiration and is called the station of the divine grace.  It signifies that the rays of the sun of reality are resplendent in the mirror and the attributes of the sun of reality are reflected therein. ADP.166

It is clearly evident that while man possesses powers in common with the animal, he is distinguished from the animal by intellectual attainment, spiritual perception, the acquisition of virtues, capacity to receive the bestowals of Divinity, lordly bounty and emanations of heavenly mercy. This is the adornment of man, his honor and sublimity. PUP.332, Ruhi5.3.4

Although a person of good deeds is acceptable at the Threshold of the Almighty, yet it is first 'to know', and then 'to do.'... By faith is meant, first, conscious knowledge (danistan), and second, the practice of good deeds. TAB.549, Ruhi7.1.7; Muntakhabati az Makatib-i-Hadrat-i-'Abdu'l-Baha, vol. 3, p. 99

The spiritual power associated with the world of nature is the power of investigation, and it is through investigation that it discovers the realities and properties of things. But the heavenly intellectual power, which is beyond nature, encompasses, knows, and comprehends all things; is aware of the divine mysteries, truths, and inner meanings; and discovers the hidden verities of the Kingdom. This divine intellectual power is confined to the holy Manifestations and the Daysprings of prophethood. A ray of this light falls upon the mirrors of the hearts of the righteous, that they may also receive, through the holy Manifestations, a share and benefit of this power. SAQ#58.4 (was SAQ.217-218)

There is, however, another Spirit, which may be termed the Divine, to which Jesus Christ refers when He declares that man must be born of its quickening and baptized with its living fire. Souls deprived of that Spirit are accounted as dead, though they are possessed of the human spirit.... This quickening spirit emanates spontaneously from the Sun of Truth, from the reality of Divinity, and is not a revelation or a manifestation. It is like the rays of the sun. PUP.058-059

But the Spirit of Faith which is of the Kingdom (of God) consists of the all-comprehending Grace and the perfect attainment (or salvation, fruition, achievement) and the power of sanctity and the divine effulgence from the Sun of Truth on luminous light-seeking essences from the presence of the divine Unity. And by this Spirit is the life of the spirit of man, when it is fortified thereby, as Christ saith: "That which is born of the Spirit is Spirit." TAB.116, MKT1:128

Concerning the spirit of faith, the spirit of the Kingdom, it is the universal favor, the perfect bounty, the holy power, the merciful effulgence from the Sun of Reality to the enlightened realities which have been made receptive by His Holiness, the Unique One. This spirit is the cause of life to the human spirit when it has been confirmed to receive it. As Jesus hath said, 'he who is born of spirit is spirit'. For this spirit there is return, for it is from the Light of God and absolute bounty. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:129)

As to the spirit of the kingdom, it is a splendor of the light of the Sun of Reality and an effulgence of the effulgences of Divinity in the mortal world, a bounty of the eternal bounties and eternal life. It is a sign of the glorious signs, one of the rays of the All-Merciful. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:219-220)

The Spirit of Faith is the Bounty of God - it is the breath/breeze of the Holy Spirit. This is the spiritual power which will be the means of Eternal Life, this is the power which will make the material man holy... (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, pp. 41-43)

But the human spirit, unless it be assisted by the spirit of faith, cannot become acquainted with the divine mysteries and the heavenly realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear, bright, and polished, is still in need of light. Not until a sunbeam falls upon it can it discover the divine mysteries. SAQ#55.5 (was SAQ.208-209)

The spirit is an emanation from God which has shone forth upon all created things, and all beings have a share and a portion thereof. ...the spirit manifests itself in the grades of existence in accordance with the requirements of those grades. In the mineral kingdom, it appears as the power of attraction, which causes these individual constituents to join together. It is the life force of the mineral, because the mineral in its own station is alive and not dead. In the plant kingdom, the power of growth is the vegetable spirit; and in the animal kingdom, the faculty of sense perception is the animal spirit, which results from the mingling and combination of elements; in other words, it is one of the requisites of such mingling and combination....         But according to the convention of the spiritually minded, the spirit which we have been discussing is not spirit, and what they intend by "spirit" is the everlasting spirit, or the life of faith. This is the spirit whereof His Holiness Christ said man must be baptized, and unless he is baptized by this spirit, he shall not enter into the Kingdom of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.186, KHT1.100, AvK1.245; PC00603)




The human spirit, which distinguishes man from the animal, is the rational soul, and these two terms--the human spirit [ruh-i-insani] and the rational soul [nafs-i-natiqih]--designate one and the same thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of the philosophers is called the rational soul, encompasses all things and as far as human capacity permits, discovers their realities and becomes aware of the properties and effects, the characteristics and conditions of earthly things. But the human spirit, unless it be assisted by the spirit of faith, cannot become acquainted with the divine mysteries and the heavenly realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear, bright, and polished, is still in need of light. Not until a sunbeam falls upon it can it discover the divine mysteries. As for the mind ['aql], it is the power of the human spirit. The spirit is as the lamp, and the mind as the light that shines from it. The spirit is as the tree, and the mind as the fruit. The mind is the perfection of the spirit and a necessary attribute thereof, even as the rays of the sun are an essential requirement of the sun itself. SAQ#55.5-6 (was SAQ.208-209)

Concerning the unity of soul (nafs) and spirit (ruh): when the soul is affected by the breath of the Holy Spirit, it will be united with the spirit, like the unity of the mirror and the sun. Its brilliant luminosity will reflect in this pure mirror. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:196)

The spirit in the soul is the very essence of life. PT#28:14 p086

There are in the world of humanity three degrees; those of the body, the soul, and spirit. The body is the physical or animal degree of man.... unlike the animal, man has a rational soul, the human intelligence. This intelligence of man is the intermediary between his body and his spirit. When man allows the spirit, through his soul, to enlighten his understanding, then does he contain all Creation; because man, being the culmination of all that went before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains all the lower world within himself. Illumined by the spirit through the instrumentality of the soul, man's radiant intelligence makes him the crowning-point of Creation.... the [rational] soul is the intermediary between the body and the [human] spirit. PT#31:1-5+7 p096-097, KHT1.168.
