



Once in about a thousand years shall this City be renewed and re-adorned.... That City is none other than the Word of God revealed in every age and dispensation. KI#218-219 p199, GWB#125 p269-270

Reflect thou, how, in one hand, He hath, by His mighty grasp, turned the earth of knowledge and understanding, previously unfolded, into a mere handful, and, on the other, spread out a new and highly exalted earth in the hearts of men, thus causing the freshest and loveliest blossoms, and the mightiest and loftiest trees to spring forth from the illumined bosom of man. KI#051 p048

...verily, powerful is He, the King of divine might, to extinguish with one letter of His wondrous words, the breath of life in the whole of the Bayan and the people thereof, and with one letter bestow upon them a new and everlasting life... KI#101 p092

These human virtues are renewed in every Dispensation; for at the close of each Dispensation the spirit of the law of God, which consists in the human virtues, vanishes in substance and persists only in form. SAQ#11.7 (was SAQ.047)

In this material world, time has changing cycles and place is subject to varying conditions. Seasons follow one another and individuals progress, regress, and develop.... The spiritual cycles associated with the Prophets of God proceed in like manner. That is, the day of the advent of the Holy Manifestations is the spiritual springtime. It is divine splendour and heavenly grace; it is the wafting of the breeze of life and the dawning of the Sun of Truth.... The spiritual cycles of the Sun of Truth, like the cycles of the physical sun, are in a state of perpetual motion and renewal. SAQ#14.1-12 (was SAQ.073-074)

The spiritual cycles of the Sun of Truth, like the cycles of the physical sun, are in a state of perpetual motion and renewal. SAQ#14.12 (was SAQ.076)

The fifth degree of spirit is the Holy Spirit, which is the mediator between God and His creation. It is like a mirror facing the sun: Just as a spotless mirror receives the rays of the sun and reflects its bounty [fayd] to others, so too is the Holy Spirit the mediator of the light of holiness, which it conveys from the Sun of Truth to sanctified souls. This Spirit is adorned with all the divine perfections. Whensoever it appears, the world is revived, a new cycle is ushered in, and the body of humanity is clothed in a fresh attire. SAQ#36.7 (was SAQ.145)

...the entire universe, whether with respect to the realm of nature or the realm of man, proceeds through cycles of major events and occurrences. When a cycle comes to a close, a new one is inaugurated, and the previous cycle, on account of the momentous events which transpire, vanishes so entirely from memory as to leave behind no record or trace. Thus, as you are aware, we have no record of twenty thousand years ago, even though we established before through rational arguments that life on this earth is very ancient--not one or two hundred thousand, or even one or two million years old: It is ancient indeed, and the records and traces of ancient times have been entirely obliterated. Each of the Manifestations of God has likewise a cycle wherein His religion and His law are in full force and effect. When His cycle is ended through the advent of a new Manifestation, a new cycle begins. Thus, cycles are inaugurated, concluded, and renewed, until a universal cycle is completed in the world of existence and momentous events transpire which efface every record and trace of the past; then a new universal cycle begins in the world, for the realm of existence has no beginning. SAQ#41.2-4 (was SAQ.160-161)

In every age and cycle He hath, through the splendorous light shed by the Manifestations of His wondrous Essence, recreated all things... GWB#026 p062

Listen with heart and soul to the songs of the spirit, and treasure them as thine own eyes; for heavenly wisdoms, even as vernal showers, will not rain forever upon the earth of men's hearts, and though the grace of the All-Bounteous One is never ceasing and never stilled, yet to every time and era a portion is allotted and a bounty assigned, which is vouchsafed in a given measure. CDB#2.80 (was SV.37-38)

O thou seeker after truth! The world of the Kingdom (jahan-i-malakut) is one world. The only difference is that spring returneth over and over again, and setteth up a great new commotion throughout all created things.... Wherefore the dispensations of past ages are intimately connected with those that follow them: indeed, they are one and the same, but as the world groweth, so does the light... SWAB#029 p058

In this mortal world every important matter hath an end; and every remarkable achievement a termination; none having permanent existence.... the great Cause of the Kingdom of God ... hath no beginning and will have no end. At most, it is only renewed. SWAB#231 p311

When we look upon the phenomenal world, we perceive that it is divided into four seasons.... The appearances of the Manifestations of God are the divine springtime. PUP.010

This time of the world may be likened to the equinoctial in the annual cycle. For, verily, this is the spring season of God. PUP.038

Every spring has an autumn, and every autumn has its spring. The coming of a Manifestation of God is the season of spiritual spring. PUP.054

...just as the solar cycle has its four seasons, the cycle of the Sun of Reality has its distinct and successive periods. Each brings its vernal season or springtime. PUP.095

According to an intrinsic law all phenomena of being attain to a summit and degree of consummation, after which a new order and condition is established. PUP.124

...there were many universal cycles preceding this one in which we are living. They were consummated, completed and their traces obliterated.  The divine and creative purpose in them was the evolution of spiritual man, just as it is in this cycle.  The circle of existence is the same circle; it returns.  The tree of life has ever borne the same heavenly fruit. PUP.220

When the holy, divine Manifestations or Prophets appear in the world, a cycle of radiance, an age of mercy dawns. Everything is renewed. PUP.278

His creation hath ever existed, and the Manifestations of His Divine glory and the Day Springs of eternal holiness have been sent down from time immemorial, and been commissioned to summon mankind to the one true God. That the names of some of them are forgotten and the records of their lives lost is to be attributed to the disturbances and changes that have overtaken the world. GWB#082 p174

The resistless march of the Faith of Baha'u'llah, viewed in this light, and propelled by the stimulating influences which the unwisdom of its enemies and the force latent within itself both engender, resolves itself into a series of rhythmic pulsations, precipitated, on the one hand, through the explosive outbursts of its foes, and the vibrations of Divine Power, on the other, which speed it, with ever-increasing momentum, along that predestined course traced for it by the Hand of the Almighty. MA.051 (12 Aug. 1941 from Shoghi Effendi)
