



[Christ] said that true baptism was not with material water but with spirit and with water, and, elsewhere, with spirit and with fire. What is meant here by "water" is not material water, for elsewhere it is explicitly stated that baptism must be with spirit and with fire, and the latter makes it clear that the intention is not material fire and water, since baptism with fire is impossible. Therefore, by "spirit" is meant divine grace; by "water", knowledge and life; and by "fire", the love of God. For material water cleanses not the heart of man but his body. Rather, the heavenly water and spirit, which are knowledge and life, cleanse and purify the heart of man. In other words, the heart that partakes of the outpouring grace of the Holy Spirit and becomes sanctified is made goodly and pure.... Man cannot free himself from the onslaught of vain and selfish desires save through the confirming grace of the Holy Spirit. That is why it is said that baptism must be with the spirit, with water, and with fire--that is, with the spirit of divine grace, the water of knowledge and life, and the fire of the love of God. It is with this spirit, this water, and this fire that man must be baptized, that he may partake of everlasting grace. SAQ#19.5-7 (was SAQ.092)




Even as Jesus saith: 'Ye must be born again.' [John 3:7] Again He saith: 'Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.' [John 3:5-6] The purport of these words is that whosoever in every dispensation is born of the Spirit and is quickened by the breath of the Manifestation of Holiness, he verily is of those that have attained unto 'life' and 'resurrection'... KI#125 p118

The essence of baptism is purification by repentance. John admonished and exhorted the people, caused them to repent, and then baptized them. It is evident then that this purification is a symbol of repentance from all sin, as though one were saying: "O God! Just as my body has been cleansed and purified from material defilements, so cleanse and purify my spirit from the defilements of the world of nature, which are unworthy of Thy divine threshold." SAQ#19.3 (was SAQ.091)

[Christ] said that true baptism was not with material water but with spirit and with water, and, elsewhere, with spirit and with fire. What is meant here by "water" is not material water, for elsewhere it is explicitly stated that baptism must be with spirit and with fire, and the latter makes it clear that the intention is not material fire and water, since baptism with fire is impossible. Therefore, by "spirit" is meant divine grace; by "water", knowledge and life; and by "fire", the love of God. For material water cleanses not the heart of man but his body. Rather, the heavenly water and spirit, which are knowledge and life, cleanse and purify the heart of man. In other words, the heart that partakes of the outpouring grace of the Holy Spirit and becomes sanctified is made goodly and pure.... Man cannot free himself from the onslaught of vain and selfish desires save through the confirming grace of the Holy Spirit. That is why it is said that baptism must be with the spirit, with water, and with fire--that is, with the spirit of divine grace, the water of knowledge and life, and the fire of the love of God. It is with this spirit, this water, and this fire that man must be baptized, that he may partake of everlasting grace. SAQ#19.5-7 (was SAQ.092)

Christ appeared in order to illumine the world of humanity, to render the earthly world celestial, to make the human kingdom a realm of angels, to unite the hearts, to enkindle the light of love in human souls, so that such souls might become independent, attaining complete unity and fellowship, turning to God, entering into the divine Kingdom, receiving the bounties and bestowals of God and partaking of the manna from heaven. Through Christ they were intended to be baptized by the Holy Spirit, attain a new spirit and realize the everlasting life. All the holy precepts and the announcements of prophetic laws were for these various and heavenly purposes. PUP.443

The spirit and intelligence of man is essential, and that is the manifestation of divine virtues, the merciful bestowals of God, the eternal life and baptism through the Holy Spirit. PUP.070

When we speak of the soul we mean the motive power of this physical body.... There is, however, a faculty in man which unfolds to his vision the secrets of existence.... This is the power of the mind.... There is still another power which is differentiated from that of the soul and mind. This third power is the spirit which is an emanation from the divine bestower; it is the effulgence of the sun of reality, the radiation of the celestial world, the spirit of faith... Christ says, 'You must be baptized with the spirit.' This spirit of faith is the flame of reality, the life of humanity and the cause of eternal illumination. It inspires man to attain the virtues and perfections of the divine world. It is my hope that each one of you may become conscious of this flame. ADP.122

There is, however, another Spirit, which may be termed the Divine, to which Jesus Christ refers when He declares that man must be born of its quickening and baptized with its living fire. Souls deprived of that Spirit are accounted as dead, though they are possessed of the human spirit.... This quickening spirit emanates spontaneously from the Sun of Truth, from the reality of Divinity, and is not a revelation or a manifestation. It is like the rays of the sun. PUP.058-059

But ye, praise be to God, are at present especially favoured with this bounty, have become of the chosen, have been informed of the heavenly instructions, have gained admittance into the Kingdom of God, have become the recipients of unbounded blessings and have been baptized with the Water of Life, with the fire of the love of God and with the Holy Spirit. SWAB#068 p104, Ruhi7.2.29

Verily, I beseech God to strengthen thee with the Most Great Power, so that the Spirit may pour upon thee the teachings of the Beauty of EL-ABHA, and to baptize thee with the water of life, the fire of the love of God and with the spirit of confirmation among the maid-servants. TAB.228 and TAB.602-603

...the water of baptism and the fire are one!... Water is the cause of life, and when Christ speaks of water, He is symbolizing that which is the cause of Everlasting Life. This life-giving water of which He speaks is like unto fire, for it is none other than the Love of God, and this love means life to our souls. By the fire of the love of God the veil is burnt which separates us from the Heavenly Realities... PT#27:2-5 p082

Those alone who are baptized by the Divine Spirit will be enabled to bring all peoples into the bond of unity. PT#28:9 p085

Glory be to God, you have been born again, you have been baptized by the fire of the Love of God; you have been plunged in the Sea of Life and regenerated by the Spirit of Love! PT#53:10 p170

I wish this blessing to appear and become manifest in the faces and characteristics of the believers, so that they, too, may become a new people, and having found new life and been baptized with fire and spirit, may make the world a new world... TAB.039 (Abdu'l-Baha)

As to the human spirit, it is the spirit which speaks and which comprehends the realities of things, discovers them and encompasses them.... It is baptized by water and spirit. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:219-220)

There are three births: First, the material birth; second, to be born of water; third to be born of the Spirit. When man first enters the spiritual world he is born of the Water of Truth and the Knowledge of God... To be born of the Spirit means to renounce all earthly desires, to aspire to the qualities of God and to begin to ascend the second half of the circle. (Pilgrim notes of Lua Getsinger, explanation of the chart of creation)

I wish the Blessing to appear and become manifest in the faces and characters of all the believers in God, so that they may also become a new people, and having found new life, and been baptized with Fire and Spirit, may make the world a new world... (From a Tablet of Abdu'l-Baha, in The Chosen Highway, p. 217)

Today the pulsating power in the arteries of the body of the world is the spirit of the Covenant - the spirit which is the cause of life. Whosoever is vivified with this spirit, the freshness and beauty of life become manifest in him, he is baptized with the Holy Spirit, he is born again, is freed from oppression and tyranny, from heedlessness and inclemency which deaden the spirit, and attains to everlasting life. SW v14#07 p225 (Abdu'l-Baha)

All the believers in this cycle are in the same station when they accept the Manifestation of God and His Teachings. This is the baptism of Water. When the soul advances to the second stage, it receives and becomes conscious of the Divine Spirit; then the Spirit speaks through it; it is inspired and can answer all questions.... The third baptism is the baptism of fire. Then the soul is aflame with the love of God and is detached from all worldly status, such as the merely intellectual perceptions. The baptism by fire frees the souls from the domination of the five senses. ("Fourth Dimensional Consciousness": pilgrim notes of Marie Watson, 1921. But n.b. Research Department memorandum in The American Baha'i, 27 Sep. 1992: "'Fourth Dimensional Consciousness' and other instructions to Marie Watson: This so-called tablet from 'Abdu'l-Baha is erroneous; Shoghi Effendi has stated that it is not a work by 'Abdu'l-Baha.")

There are three baptisms spoken of by the prophets: The baptism of water, of spirit and of fire. The first signifies the condition when the soul receives the teachings of the knowledge of God. The second, when the soul receives the spirit; when the soul receives this baptism the spirit speaks through him, he has no need to be taught of men or to ask questions, because the holy spirit will enlighten and teach him. The third baptism is that of fire, when the soul becomes aflame with the love of God and insensible to any other attraction. This baptism Moses received when, as it is written, he saw God in the flame of fire, and the same experience is recorded of many other prophets. (Pilgrim notes entitled "Conversation February 26, 1899, at Acca - Answers in reply to various questions")

The call of the kingdom is like a spirit; it produces a sudden effect in the nerves, arteries, hearts and souls and regenerates the people; baptizes them with Water, Spirit and Fire; the Second Birth will be produced and new people will be raised... (From a Tablet, in Flowers from the Rose Garden of Acca, 1908, p. 37)

We are told in the Bible of the Baptism of Water and of Spirit, and also of the Baptism of Spirit and of Fire, and these are the Three Baptisms. (Pilgrim notes of Breakwell, Hopper, Brittingham, Sep. 1901)

I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. Mark 1:8         John answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire... Luke 3:16         Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. John 3:5

First must the stream bed be cleansed, then may the sweet river waters be led into it.... This is why, in Holy Scriptures, the counsels of heaven are likened unto water, even as the Qur'an saith: 'And pure water send We down from Heaven,' and the Gospel: 'Except a man be baptized of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God.' Thus it is clear that the Teachings which come from God are heavenly outpourings of grace; they are rain-showers of divine mercy, and they cleanse the human heart. SWAB#129 p146

The spirit is an emanation from God which has shone forth upon all created things, and all beings have a share and a portion thereof. ...the spirit manifests itself in the grades of existence in accordance with the requirements of those grades. In the mineral kingdom, it appears as the power of attraction, which causes these individual constituents to join together. It is the life force of the mineral, because the mineral in its own station is alive and not dead. In the plant kingdom, the power of growth is the vegetable spirit; and in the animal kingdom, the faculty of sense perception is the animal spirit, which results from the mingling and combination of elements; in other words, it is one of the requisites of such mingling and combination....         But according to the convention of the spiritually minded, the spirit which we have been discussing is not spirit, and what they intend by "spirit" is the everlasting spirit, or the life of faith. This is the spirit whereof His Holiness Christ said man must be baptized, and unless he is baptized by this spirit, he shall not enter into the Kingdom of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.186, KHT1.100, AvK1.245; PC00603)




But in the Dispensation of Baha'u'llah this symbol [of baptism] is no longer required, for its reality, which is to be baptized with the spirit and the love of God, has been established and realized. SAQ#19.8 (was SAQ.092)
