



It is hoped that all the Baha'i students will follow the noble example you have set before them and will, henceforth, be led to investigate and analyse the principles of the Faith and to correlate them with the modern aspects of philosophy and science. Every intelligent and thoughtful young Baha'i should always approach the Cause in this way, for therein lies the very essence of the principle of independent investigation of truth. (6 Aug. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in the compilation on Scholarship, extract #50)

If you read the utterances of Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha with selflessness and care and concentrate upon them, you will discover truths unknown to you before and will obtain an insight into the problems that have baffled the great thinkers of the world. COC#430 (30 Jan. 1925 from Shoghi Effendi)

Regarding your question concerning a deep and profound study of the teachings: of course the Baha'is can and should meditate upon the significances of the writings, and endeavour to grasp their meaning to the utmost.... However certain things are, by their very nature, a mystery to us, at least in our present stage of development. One of these is what the next world, the purely spiritual world, is like.         To try and visualize that realm in the terms of this physical one is absolutely impossible. 'Abdu'l-Baha has likened the relation of our souls in this world to our future life after death with the babe in its Mother's womb. All the faculties the infant is developing are, in the womb, absolutely useless to it. However, when it is born, it suddenly discovers their use, uses its eyes, its ears, hands, lungs, etc. in its new environment. Nor could the baby have possibly visualized its life after birth, while still unborn. So we cannot possibly understand or visualize what the condition and state of the future, purely spiritual, world is. To say it has time, space, and so on, is to delineate it by terms applicable to this material world and alien to that spiritual one.         The Guardian feels that, while there is no harm in speculation on these abstract matters, one should not attach too much importance to them. Science itself is far from having resolved the question of the nature of matter, and we cannot, in this physical world, grasp the spiritual one more than in a very fragmentary and inadequate manner. LG#700 (1st paragraph), LG#702 (last para.) (19 Jan. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye may unravel its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its depths. Take heed that ye do not vacillate in your determination to embrace the truth of this Cause--a Cause through which the potentialities of the might of God have been revealed, and His sovereignty established. KA#182, GWB#070 p136, Ruhi4.1.6

To deepen in the Cause means to read the writings of Baha'u'llah and the Master so thoroughly as to be able to give it to others in its pure form.... There is no limit to the study of the Cause. The more we read the writings the more truths we can find in them and the more we will see that our previous notions were erroneous. LG#1914, Ruhi6.1.26 (25 Aug. 1926 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

To strive to obtain a more adequate understanding of the significance of Baha'u'llah's stupendous Revelation must, it is my unalterable conviction, remain the first obligation and the object of the constant endeavor of each one of its loyal adherents. An exact and thorough comprehension of so vast a system, so sublime a revelation, so sacred a trust, is for obvious reasons beyond the reach and ken of our finite minds. We can, however, and it is our bounden duty to seek to derive fresh inspiration and added sustenance as we labor for the propagation of His Faith through a clearer apprehension of the truths it enshrines and the principles on which it is based. WOB.100

Dearly-loved friends, this is the theme we must pursue in our efforts to deepen in the Cause. What is Baha'u'llah's purpose for the human race? For what ends did He submit to the appalling cruelties and indignities heaped upon Him? What does He mean by "a new race of men"? What are the profound changes which He will bring about? The answers are to be found in the Sacred Writings of our Faith and in their interpretation by 'Abdu'l-Baha and our beloved Guardian. Let the friends immerse themselves in this ocean, let them organize regular study classes for its constant consideration, and, as reinforcement to their effort, let them remember conscientiously the requirements of daily prayer and reading of the Word of God enjoined upon all Baha'is by Baha'u'llah. Ridvan.1967, M63-86 42.24

It behooveth the friends in whatever land they be, to gather together in meetings, and therein to speak wisely and with eloquence, and to read the verses of God; for it is God's Words that kindle love's fire and set it ablaze. (Baha'u'llah, "Baha'i Meetings" p.3, Ruhi2.2.5)

Surely the ideal way of teaching is to prove our points by constant reference to the actual words of Baha'u'llah and the Master. This will save the Cause from being misinterpreted by individuals. It is what these divine Lights say that is truth and therefore they should be the authorities of our statements. This, however, does not mean that our freedom of expression is limited. We can always find new ways of approach to that truth or explain how they influence our life and condition. The more deep our studies the more we can understand the significance of the teachings. In the Cause we cannot divorce the letter from the spirit of the words. As Baha'u'llah says we should take the outward significance and superimpose upon it the inner. Either without the other is wrong and defective. COC#461, Ruhi6.1.26 (16 Feb. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Every hand which setteth down His Words with true faith shall be filled by God, both in this world and in the next, with things that are highly prized; and every breast which committeth His Words to memory, God shall cause, if it were that of a believer, to be filled with His love; and every heart which cherisheth the love of His Words ... that heart will become the object of the glances of divine favour and on the Day of Resurrection will be highly praised by God. SWB.099, Ruhi7.2.25

It is my hope that you may put forth your most earnest endeavor to accomplish this end, that you may investigate and study the Holy Scriptures word by word so that you may attain knowledge of the mysteries hidden therein. Be not satisfied with words, but seek to understand the spiritual meanings hidden in the heart of the words. PUP.459

...a firmer grasp of the essential verities of the Faith; a more profound study of its history and a deeper understanding of the genesis, the significance, the workings, and the present status and achievements of its embryonic World Order and of the Covenant to which it owes its birth and vitality -- these remain the rock-bottom requirements which alone can guarantee the opening, and hasten the advent, of that blissful era which every British Baha'i heart so eagerly anticipates, and the glories of which can, at present, be but dimly discerned. COC#448, UD.385 (30 Aug. 1957)

The Guardian hopes that along with whatever other studies you take up, you will continually study the teachings and endeavour to acquire a profound knowledge of them. The importance of young Baha'is becoming thoroughly steeped in every branch of the teachings cannot be overemphasized, as they have great teaching tasks ahead of them to accomplish. COC#2274 (22 Jan. 1944 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...Peace of mind is gained by the centering of the spiritual consciousness on the Prophet of God; therefore you should study the spiritual Teachings, and receive the Water of Life from the Holy Utterances. Then by translating these high ideals into action, your entire character will be changed, and your mind will not only find peace, but your entire being will find joy and enthusiasm. LG#381 (15 Oct. 1952 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...you should deepen your knowledge of the history and of the tenets of the Faith, not merely by means of careful and thorough study, but also through active, whole-hearted and continued participation in all the activities, whether administrative or otherwise, of your community. The Baha'i community life provides you with an indispensable laboratory, where you can translate into living and constructive action the principles which you imbibe from the Teachings. By becoming a real part of that living organism you can catch the real spirit which runs throughout the Baha'i Teachings. To study the principles, and to try to live according to them, are, therefore, the two essential mediums through which you can ensure the development and progress of your inner spiritual life and of your outer existence as well. COC#2259 (2 Nov. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

A profound study of the Faith which they have espoused, its history, its spiritual as well as administrative principles; a thorough understanding of the Covenant of Baha'u'llah and of the Will of 'Abdu'l-Baha, a deeper realization of the implications of the claims advanced by the Founders of the Faith; strict adherence to the laws and principles which they have established; a greater dedication to the fundamentals and verities enshrined in their teachings -- these constitute, I feel convinced, the urgent need of the members of this rapidly expanding community. For upon this spiritual foundation must depend the solidity of the institutions which they are now so painstakingly erecting. (Messages to the Antipodes, p. 263-264, 30 Dec. 1948 from Shoghi Effendi)

In connection with the question as to whether Baha'is should be familiar with the different sciences and branches of study, Shoghi Effendi wishes me to inform you that both Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha have given a very high position to men of culture and knowledge and Baha'u'llah says in one of His Tablets that respect shown to such people is incumbent upon all Baha'is. Furthermore there is no doubt that familiarity with different branches of study widens one's point of view and we can then understand and realize the significance of the Baha'i Movement and its principles much more. (14 December 1924 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
