



To every discerning and illumined heart it is evident that God, the unknowable Essence, the divine Being, is immensely exalted beyond every human attribute, such as corporeal existence, ascent and descent, egress and regress.... He is and hath ever been veiled in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and will remain in His Reality everlastingly hidden from the sight of men... No tie of direct intercourse can possibly bind Him to His creatures. He standeth exalted beyond and above all separation and union, all proximity and remoteness.... How could there be conceived any existing relationship or possible connection between His Word and they that are created of it? ...the words: "God was alone; there was none else beside Him" are a sure testimony of its truth. KI#104-105 p098-099, GWB#019 p046-047, WOB.113

...the Word of God - exalted be His glory - is higher and far superior to that which the senses can perceive, for it is sanctified from any property or substance. It transcendeth the limitations of known elements and is exalted above all the essential and recognized substances. It became manifest without any syllable or sound and is none but the Command of God which pervadeth all created things. It hath never been withheld from the world of being. It is God's all-pervasive grace (fayd), from which all grace doth emanate. It is an entity far removed above all that hath been and shall be. TB.140-141, Ruhi6.1.21




Such are the mysteries of the Word of God, which have been unveiled and made manifest, that haply thou mayest apprehend the morning light of divine guidance... and mayest kindle, in the inmost chamber of thine heart, the new-born light of divine knowledge and certitude. KI#052 p049

...in every age, the reading of the scriptures and holy books is for no other purpose except to enable the reader to apprehend their meaning and unravel their innermost mysteries. KI#185 p172

That city [of Certitude] is none other than the Word of God revealed in every age and dispensation.... In these cities spiritual sustenance is bountifully provided, and incorruptible delights have been ordained.... All the guidance, the blessings, the learning, the understanding, the faith, and certitude, conferred upon all that is in heaven and on earth, are hidden and treasured within these Cities. KI#219 p199-200, GWB#125 p270

...compared with all other proofs and tokens, the divinely revealed verses shine as the sun, whilst all others are as stars... They are the treasury of the divine pearls and the depository of the divine mysteries.... Through them floweth the river of divine knowledge, and gloweth the fire of His ancient and consummate wisdom. This is the fire which, in one and the same moment, kindleth the flame of love in the breasts of the faithful, and induceth the chill of heedlessness in the heart of the enemy. KI#226 p205

Please God, that we ... may perceive, with an eye purged from all conflicting elements, the worlds of unity and diversity, of variation and oneness, of limitation and detachment, and wing our flight unto the highest and innermost sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of God. KI#170 p160

...only those who are initiated into the divine mysteries can comprehend the melodies uttered by the Bird of Heaven... KI#212 p191

Meditate upon that which hath streamed forth from the heaven of the Will of thy Lord, He Who is the Source of all grace, that thou mayest grasp the intended meaning which is enshrined in the sacred depths of the Holy Writings. TB.143

May your souls be illumined by the light of the Words of God, and may you become repositories of the mysteries of God, for no comfort is greater and no happiness is sweeter than spiritual comprehension of the divine teachings. If a man understands the real meaning of a poet's verses such as those of Shakespeare, he is pleased and rejoiced. How much greater his joy and pleasure when he perceives the reality of the Holy Scriptures and becomes informed of the mysteries of the Kingdom! I pray that the divine blessings may descend upon you day by day, that your hearts may be opened to perceive the inner significances of the Word of God. PUP.460, Ruhi5.3.10

...the Word of God is collective wisdom, absolute knowledge and eternal truth. PUP.154

What is the Truth? Truth is the Word of God, which gives life to humanity. It restores sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf; it makes eloquent those who are dumb, and living beings out of dead beings; it illumines the world of the heart and soul; it reduces into nothingness the iniquities of the neglectful and erring ones. Beauty, perfection, brilliancy and spirituality in this existence comes from or through the Word of God. For all it is the supreme goal, the greatest desire, the cause of life, light, instruction. The road to attain to this Truth is the Love of God. When the light of the love of God is burning in the mirror of the heart, that flame shows the way and guides to the Kingdom of the Word of God. As to that which causes the growth of the Love of God, know, it is to turn one's self toward God. (Abdu'l-Baha, BSC.493 #953; SW v14#06 p164; AB00430)

Blessed is the one who discovereth the fragrance of inner meanings from the traces of this Pen through whose movement the breezes of God are wafted over the entire creation, and through whose stillness the very essence of tranquillity appeareth in the realm of being. KA#158




To maintain that the testimony of Providence was incomplete, that it hath therefore been the cause of the denial of the people, is but open blasphemy.... Nay, the manifold bounties of the Lord of all beings have, at all times, through the Manifestations of His divine Essence, encompassed the earth and all that dwell therein. Not for a moment hath His grace been withheld, nor have the showers of His loving-kindness ceased to rain upon mankind. KI#014 p013-014; GWB#013 p018

How could God, when once the Day-star of the beauty of Jesus had disappeared from the sight of His people... cause His holy Book, His most great testimony amongst His creatures, to disappear also? KI#098 p089

Know thou, that I have wafted unto thee all the fragrances of holiness, have fully revealed to thee My word, have perfected through thee My bounty and have desired for thee that which I have desired for My Self. Be then content with My pleasure and thankful unto Me. AHW#70

The mystic and wondrous Bride, hidden ere this beneath the veiling of utterance, hath now, by the grace of God and His divine favor, been made manifest even as the resplendent light shed by the beauty of the Beloved. I bear witness, O friends! that the favor is complete, the argument fulfilled, the proof manifest and the evidence established. Let it now be seen what your endeavors in the path of detachment will reveal. In this wise hath the divine favor been fully vouchsafed unto you and unto them that are in heaven and on earth. PHW (concluding passage)




No breeze can compare with the breezes of Divine Revelation, whilst the Word which is uttered by God shineth and flasheth as the sun amidst the books of men. ESW.042-043

The word which the one true God uttereth in this day, though that word be the most familiar and commonplace of terms, is invested with supreme, with unique distinction. WOB.104, Ruhi8.1.11 (Baha'u'llah)
