






Through the movement of Our Pen of glory We have, at the bidding of the omnipotent Ordainer, breathed a new life into every human frame, and instilled into every word a fresh potency. All created things proclaim the evidences of this world-wide regeneration. GWB#043 p092-093, TB.084, ADJ#111 p120, Ruhi5.3.10

This is the Day whereon naught can be seen except the splendors of the Light that shineth from the face of Thy Lord, the Gracious, the Most Bountiful. Verily, We have caused every soul to expire by virtue of Our irresistible and all-subduing sovereignty. We have, then, called into being a new creation, as a token of Our grace unto men. GWB#014 p029-030, Ruhi4.3.23

"O people! I swear by the one true God! This is the Ocean out of which all Seas have proceeded, and with which every one of them will ultimately be united. From Him all the Suns have been generated, and unto Him they will all return. Through His potency the Trees of Divine Revelation have yielded their fruits, every one of which hath been sent down in the form of a Prophet, bearing a Message to God's creatures in each of the worlds whose number God, alone, in His all-encompassing knowledge, can reckon. This He hath accomplished through the agency of but one Letter of His Word, revealed by His Pen--a Pen moved by His directing Finger--His Finger itself sustained by the power of God's Truth." ADJ#115         "Every single letter proceeding from Our mouth is endowed with such regenerative power as to enable it to bring into existence a new creation--a creation the magnitude of which is inscrutable to all save God. He verily hath knowledge of all things." ADJ#111         "It is in Our power, should We wish it, to enable a speck of floating dust to generate, in less than the twinkling of an eye, suns of infinite, of unimaginable splendor, to cause a dewdrop to develop into vast and numberless oceans, to infuse into every letter such a force as to empower it to unfold all the knowledge of past and future ages." ADJ#111         "We are possessed of such power which, if brought to light, will transmute the most deadly of poisons into a panacea of unfailing efficacy." ADJ#111 p120-122 (Baha'u'llah) [paragraph 3 of the Immortal Passages]

A new life is, in this age, stirring within all the peoples of the earth; and yet none hath discovered its cause or perceived its motive. GWB#096 p196, Ruhi2.3.7

As this cycle is the cycle of sciences, there must needs be new teachings, a new revelation is required and a new life is wanted. The minds and hearts refute the veracity of ancient opinions. New ideals are called for and new principles are urgently demanded which may fill the requirements of this age, be as the spirit of this century and as the light of this period. 'Abdu'l-Baha, SW v07#07 p.25-26
