



Let us assume that the mode of divine activity in the world is identical with nature. This includes the assumption that the mode of divine activity in the physical world does not extend beyond nature (i.e., no violation of the laws of physics through the manipulation of the creator). Omnipotent divine activity is everywhere essentially hidden (LeMaitre). Then we can accept the neo-Darwinian theory that all beings arose through the process of differentiation and selection: there is no need to smuggle God in by the back-door (Dawkins 316) by positing a separate ordering force. We then have several problems to resolve, such as 1) what need then remains for God? By Occam's razor can we not eliminate this hypothesis? No, because we are ultimately still left with the question, why existence instead of nonexistence? Even the multiverse and the quantum vacuum do not answer this. 2) If we accept the existence of God, what role remains for Him? That of a passive bystander? No, because He is involved moment to moment in the workings of nature. But does this lead to Ash'arite-style occasionalism? No, because nature follows fixed laws, and causality is not therefore a meaningless convention. But if nature follows fixed laws, then does this not place an unacceptable limit upon the omnipotence of the Creator? In addition, how does this mesh with the notion of a personal, loving God of history? We could begin by redefining love as attraction and proceed along these lines... 3) How do we reconcile the neo-Darwinian viewpoint on the preponderant role of chance in evolution with the Baha'i view of the inevitability of the rise of consciousness? One path (von Kitzing) is to assert that the archetypes (i.e., the species) pre-existed in the essence, and that evolution is the movement of these archetypes from the realm of possibility to the domain of realization. But this begs the question of the origin of complexity, as we are in effect assuming from the outset the existence of something (i.e. complexity) that the theory of evolution was created to explain. However, the archetypes themselves, existing in the station of wahidiyyah, arose from a state of perfect unity, ahadiyyah. The movement of creation from the first stage to the second - and, ultimately, the origin of complexity - is removed entirely from the physical realm to the metaphysical/spiritual, the realm of the hidden treasure. It reduces to the question of the arising of the first pair from the Primal unity. (This theme is also found in the philosophy of Hegel/Fichte). 4) How do we account for the Master's categorical statements that from the beginning of man's existence he is a distinct species. ...his species (naw') and essence (mahiyah) undergo no change. ...Man was always a distinct species, a man, not an animal. (SAQ.184) We can look at the concept of species from the point of view of the final cause, using the metaphor of the fruit tree. But if humanity is the fruit that was destined from the beginning to appear, then we are begging the question again as to how all of this complexity was there at the beginning, in seed form so to speak.     What does it mean to say that evolution is a teleological process? That there was a plan for creation in the mind of God from the beginning? See Plotinus on why there is no planning at the level of the One: Therefore neither forethought for a living thing nor forethought for this universe in general derived from a plan; since there is no planning there at all, but it is called planning to show that all things there are as they would be as a result of planning at a later stage, and foresight because it is as a wise man would foresee it.... Enn.VI.7.1     'Abdu'l-Baha's objections should be seen not so much as a criticism of the physical mechanism of evolution, but rather as a reaction to how the theory of evolution (as well as modern cosmology) has replaced the traditional anthropocentric view of the world. Is it possible to record this anthropocentrism in some other meaningful sense, while upholding the validity of modern cosmology and evolutionary biology? To answer in the negative is to put the Faith on a collision course with science.     ** Key overarching conceptual framework for understanding evolution from a Baha'i perspective: continuity and discontinuity: 1) Oneness and interconnectedness --> Man is continuous with nature; 2) hierarchy and soul --> Man is discontinuous with nature. In the same way, the fruit is both continuous and discontinuous with the leaf: continuous through the organism of the tree, and discontinuous in terms of their function and purpose.     Another central concept: agency. Resolved by equating divine and natural agency.




This composition and arrangement arose, through the wisdom of God and His ancient might, from one natural order. Thus, as this composition and combination has been produced according to a natural order, with perfect soundness, following a consummate wisdom, and subject to a universal law, it is clear that it is a divine creation and not an accidental composition and arrangement. SAQ#47.5 (was SAQ.181)

...the human embryo grows and develops gradually in the womb of its mother and assumes different forms and conditions until it reaches maturity with the utmost beauty and appears in a consummate form with the utmost grace. In like manner, the seed of this flower which you see before you was, in the beginning, a small and insignificant thing, but it grew and developed in the womb of the earth and assumed different forms until it appeared with such perfect vitality and grace in this degree. It is likewise clear and evident that this terrestrial globe came to exist, grow, and develop in the matrix of the universe and assumed different forms and conditions until it gradually attained its present completeness, became adorned with countless beings, and appeared in such a consummate form. It is therefore evident that the original matter, which is like unto the embryo, initially took the form of composed and combined elements, and that composition gradually grew and developed over a myriad ages and centuries, passing from one shape and form to another until, through the consummate wisdom of God, it appeared with such completeness, order, arrangement, and soundness. SAQ#47.7-8 (was SAQ.182-183)

Man ever aspires to greater heights and loftier goals. He ever seeks to attain a world surpassing that which he inhabits, and to ascend to a degree above that which he occupies. This love of transcendence is one of the hallmarks of man. I am astonished that certain philosophers in Europe and America have consented to lower themselves to the animal realm and so to regress, whereas all existence must ever aspire towards exaltation. SAQ#48.8 (was SAQ.188)

The Creator of all is One God. From this same God all creation sprang into existence, and He is the one goal, towards which everything in nature yearns. PT#15:1-2 p051

The point of the compass in describing a circle does not reverse its motion, for this would be contrary to the natural movement and the divine order and would disrupt the regularity of the circle. ...advancing and moving through the worlds in a direct line and according to the natural order is the cause of existence, and moving against the natural order and arrangement of things is the cause of extinction. SAQ#81.9-10 (was SAQ.286)

The elemental atoms which constitute all phenomenal existence and being in this illimitable universe are in perpetual motion, undergoing continuous degrees of progression. ...the constituent elemental atoms of phenomena undergo progressive transferrence and motion throughout the material kingdoms. PUP.284-285

...the world of elements cannot be annihilated, because pure existence cannot be annihilated; and what we observe are but transformative modifications in the composition of the essence. ADP.107

Consider, for instance, the revelation of the light of the Name of God, the Educator (rabb). Behold, how in all things the evidences of such a revelation are manifest, how the betterment of all beings dependeth upon it. This education is of two kinds. The one is universal. Its influence pervadeth all things and sustaineth them. It is for this reason that God hath assumed the title, 'Lord of all worlds.' (rabbu'l-'alamin) The other is confined to them that have come under the shadow of this Name, and sought the shelter of this most mighty Revelation. GWB#093 p189-190

Today, the Lord of Hosts is the defender of the Covenant, the forces of the Kingdom protect it, heavenly souls tender their services, and heavenly angels promulgate and spread it broadcast. If it is considered with insight, it will be seen that all the forces of the universe, in the last analysis serve the Covenant. SWAB#192 p228

In the physical creation, evolution is from one degree of perfection to another.... This world is full of seeming contradictions; in each of these kingdoms (mineral, vegetable and animal) life exists in its degree... PT#20:14 p066

The atoms of the elements are predisposed (programmed) to synthesis and composition according to the laws of nature; the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will operates and creates in this manner. The Primal Will operates in the element, in the primal atom, as attraction and repulsion; on the next higher level as organic life; then as animal-vegetative; and finally as spiritual life, which is destined to rise to the super-spiritual. What develops is not the physical substratum (base), which actually exists from the beginning in its different kinds, each of which then develops only within its own kind to higher perfection, but rather does the Cosmic spirit, the divine Primal Will, unfold within the creature just as the bud of a flower unfolds... (Fallsheer notes, p. 35)

The mineral evolves till it is absorbed in the life of the plant... PT#29:19 p092

Have they not considered within themselves that God hath not created the heavens and the earth and all that is between them but for a serious end, and for a fixed term? ESW.117 (Qur'an 30:7)

...in this great and infinite universe all things end in the mineral kingdom, ... the outcome of the mineral kingdom is the vegetable kingdom, the outcome of the vegetable kingdom is the animal kingdom and the outcome of the animal kingdom the world of man.  The consummation of this limitless universe with all its grandeur and glory hath been man himself... Forel.13-14

'That which hath been in existence had existed before, but not in the form thou seest today.' [TB p140] From this blessed verse it is clear and evident that the universe (kawn) is evolving (tarraqi). In the opinion of the philosophers and the wise this fact of the development and evolution of the world of existence is also established. That is to say, it is progressively transferred from one state to another. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MA2.068-069, in Brown (2001), 85)

The fruit hidden in the tree appears upon its branches in response to the power of the sun; man and all other organisms life, move and have their being under its developing rays; nature is resplendent with countless evolutionary forms through its pervading impulse... PUP.074

God has created all earthly things under a law of progression in material degrees, but He has created man and endowed him with powers of advancement toward spiritual and transcendental kingdoms. PUP.302

Briefly, the world of existence is progressive. It is subject to development and growth. ...the world of existence is continuously progressing and developing... PUP.378

In the physical creation, evolution is from one degree of perfection to another. The mineral passes with its mineral perfections to the vegetable; the vegetable, with its perfections, passes to the animal world, and so on to that of humanity. PT#20:14 p066

In the realm of spirit there is no retreat possible, all movement is bound to be towards a perfect state. 'Progress' is the expression of spirit in the world of matter. PT#29:9 p090

Consider the aim of creation: it is possible that all is created to evolve and develop through countless ages with this small goal in view - a few years of a man's life on earth? Is it not unthinkable that this should be the final aim of existence? PT#29:18 p092

...the Word of God is like unto the Spirit, and the contingent world like unto the embryo in the womb of the mother.  Through the power of the Spirit such various changes and metamorphoses become apparent, transforming them from one form to another. TAB.497

God in his wisdom has created all things. Nothing has been created without a special destiny, for every creature has an innate station of attainment.... Each kingdom of nature holds potentialities and each must be cultivated in order to reach its fulfillment. ADP.110

This universe is not created through the fortuitous concurrences of atoms; it is created by a great law which decrees that the tree bring forth certain definite fruit. Verily, this universe contains many worlds of which we know nothing. ADP.140

`...As the Creator has pleased to implant in the atoms His dynamic Power, a latent purposeful behaviour, one thing is contained in another and consecutively there develops from a latent condition an appearance made visible.['] This sounds rather like the theory of Darwin who, a thousand years later and with better methods, with more perfect tools, lifted the veil of secrecy from many of the miracles of creation. (Fallscheer notes, Feb. 1910, p. 51, Concerning Oriental Darwinism; first part quotes Al-Ash`ari)

We cannot prove that man was always man for this is a fundamental doctrine, but it is based on the assertion that nothing can exceed its own potentialities, that everything, a stone, a tree, an animal and a human being existed in plan, potentially, from the very 'beginning' of creation. We don't believe man has always had the form of man, but rather that from the outset he was going to evolve into the human form and species and not be a haphazard branch of the ape family. You see our whole approach to each matter is based on the belief that God sends us divinely inspired Educators. What they tell us is fundamentally true; what science tells us today is true, tomorrow may be entirely changed to better explain a new set of facts. (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Arohanui, p. 85)

...man is shown to be the sum of all creation, the superior of all created beings, the goal to which countless ages of existence have progressed. PT#29:20 p092

The intelligence of man, his reasoning powers, his knowledge, his scientific achievements, all these being manifestations of the spirit, partake of the inevitable law of spiritual progress and are, therefore, of necessity, immortal. PT#29:9 p090




We regard man as the chief member because, among all created things, he encompasses all the perfections of existence. Now, what we mean by "man" is the complete human being, the foremost person in the world, who is the sum of all spiritual and material perfections, and who is like the sun among all created things. Imagine, then, a time when the sun did not exist as such, in other words, when the sun was merely another celestial body. Undoubtedly, at such a time the relationships between existing things would have been disrupted. SAQ#46.4-5 (was SAQ.178)

...even if we were to suppose that certain animals, or even man, once possessed limbs which have now disappeared, this would not be a sufficient proof of the transformation of the species. For man, from the conception of the embryo until the attainment of maturity, assumes different forms and appearances. His appearance, form, features, and colour change; that is, he passes from form to form and from appearance to appearance. Yet, from the formation of the embryo he belongs to the human species; that is, it is the embryo of a man and not of an animal.... The same holds true in the vegetable kingdom, where we observe that the original and distinctive character of the species does not change, while its form, colour, and mass do change, transform, and evolve.... Just as man progresses, evolves, and is transformed from one form and appearance to another in the womb of the mother, while remaining from the beginning a human embryo, so too has man remained a distinct essence--that is, the human species--from the beginning of his formation in the matrix of the world, and has passed gradually from form to form. It follows that this change of appearance, this evolution of organs, and this growth and development do not preclude the originality of the species. Now, even accepting the reality of evolution and progress, nevertheless, from the moment of his appearance man has possessed perfect composition, and has had the capacity and potential to acquire both material and spiritual perfections and to become the embodiment of the verse, "Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness." [Cf. Gen 1:26] At most, he has become more pleasing, more refined and graceful, and by virtue of civilization he has emerged from his wild state, just as the wild fruits become finer and sweeter under the cultivation of the gardener, and acquire ever greater delicacy and vitality. SAQ#49.6-8 (was SAQ.193-194)

...man has been man from his very inception and origin, and that the essence of his species has existed from eternity. SAQ#50.1 (was SAQ.195)

If man did not exist, the universe would be without result, for the purpose of existence is the revelation of the divine perfections. We cannot say, then, that there was a time when man was not. At most we can say that there was a time when this earth did not exist, and that at the beginning man was not present upon it. But from the beginning that has no beginning to the end that has no end, a perfect Manifestation has always existed. This Man of Whom we speak here is not just any man: That which we intend is the Perfect Man. SAQ#50.4-5 (was SAQ.196)

From the beginning of his formation, the mind and the spirit existed, but they were hidden and appeared only later. In the world of the womb, too, the mind and the spirit exist in the embryo but are concealed and appear only afterwards. SAQ#51.3 (was SAQ.198)

We cannot state reasonably that this world is ten thousand or one hundred thousand or one hundred million years old, for the divine rays have ever descended upon man. ADP.169

The Baha'i Faith teaches man was always potentially man, even when passing through lower stages of evolution. LG#1341, UD.458 (4 Oct. 1950 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Similarly, the terrestrial globe was created, from the beginning, with all its elements, substances, minerals, parts, and components, but these appeared only gradually: first the minerals, then the plants, then the animals, and finally man. But from the beginning, these kinds and species were latent in the earthly realm and appeared gradually thereafter. For the supreme law of God and the universal natural order encompasses all things and subjects them to its rule. When you consider this universal order, you see that not a single thing reaches the limit of perfection immediately upon coming into existence, but grows and develops gradually until it reaches that stage. SAQ#51.5 (was SAQ.199)

In the world of existence man has traversed various stages until he has attained the human kingdom ('alam-i insani). In each stage the capacity (isti'dad) for ascent to the next stage has appeared. While in the kingdom of the mineral ('alam-i jamadi) the capacity to progress to the stage of the plant appeared, and, therefore, he came into the vegetable kingdom ('alam-i nabat). In the vegetable kingdom the capacity to progress into the world of the animal ('alam-i hayawan) was obtained, and thus he came into the animal kingdom. Similarly, from the world of the animal he came into the world of man. Throughout this journey of progression he has ever and always been potentially man. PUP.225-226, KHT2.170-171, revised trans. in Brown (2001), 86.

There is nothing unreasonable in the Master's statement you quote, page 220, "The Promulgation of Universal Peace": He expounds the idea that man was always potentially man, which is just another way of saying the Cause contains the power to produce the effect; in this planned and integrated universe, he was part of the plan from the beginning, so to speak. (24 Feb. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
