



This exile resulted in the appearance of the Prophets of Israel from the progeny of Abraham--and so will it continue forevermore. SAQ#4.4 (was SAQ.013)

For the station of Adam, with regard to the appearance and manifestation of the divine perfections, was that of the embryo; the station of Christ was that of coming of age and maturation; and the dawning of the Most Great Luminary was the station of the perfection of the essence and the attributes. SAQ#30.7 (was SAQ.124)

Contemplate with thine inward eye the chain of successive Revelations that hath linked the Manifestation of Adam with that of the Bab.... this process of progressive Revelation culminated in the stage at which His peerless, His most sacred, and exalted Countenance was to be unveiled to men's eyes... GWB#031 p074-075

From the days of Adam until today, the religions of God have been made manifest, one following the other, and each one of them fulfilled its due function, revived mankind, and provided education and enlightenment. SWAB#023 p051

Say ye: We believe in Allah, and the revelation given to us, and to Abraham, Isma'il, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes, and that given to Moses and Jesus, and that given to (all) Prophets from their Lord: We make no difference between one and another of them: And we bow to Allah (in Islam). Qur'an 2:136 (Yusuf 'Ali trans.)

...certain families and lineages have been singled out for a special blessing. Thus the descendants of Abraham received the special blessing that all the Prophets of the House of Israel were raised up from among their ranks. This is a blessing that God bestowed upon that lineage. Moses, through both His father and His mother; Christ, through His mother; Muhammad; the Bab; and all the Prophets and Holy Ones of Israel belong to that lineage. Baha'u'llah too is a lineal descendant of Abraham, for Abraham had other sons besides Ishmael and Isaac who in those days emigrated to the regions of Persia and Afghanistan, and the Blessed Beauty is one of their descendants. SAQ#57.6




The fundamental principle enunciated by Baha'u'llah... is that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is a continuous and progressive process, that all the great religions of the world are divine in origin, that their basic principles are in complete harmony, are but facets of one truth, that their functions are complementary, that they differ only in the non-essential aspects of their doctrines, and represent successive stages in the spiritual evolution of human society. (Shoghi Effendi, statement to the United Nations Commission on Palestine, 1947)




Unto the cities of all nations He hath sent His Messengers, Whom He hath commissioned to announce unto men tidings of the Paradise of His good pleasure... GWB#076 p145




This is what they who have near access to God have attained. This is the flowing water ye were promised in the Qur'an, and later in the Bayan, as a recompense from your Lord, the God of Mercy. Blessed are they that quaff it. GWB#018 p046

This, verily, is that Light which hath been foretold in the heavenly scriptures. TU.1#12
