



First we have to study the economic teachings in the light of modern problems more thoroughly so that we may advocate what the Founders of the Faith say and not what we conjecture from Their Writings. There is a great difference between sounding a great general principle and finding its application to actual prevailing conditions. DG#56 (11 Jan. 1933 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Likewise with regard to the party of 'equality' which seeks the solution of the economic problems: until now all proposed solutions have proved impracticable except the economic proposals in the teachings of Baha'u'llah which are practicable and cause no distress to society. SWAB#227 p305

Complete socialization is not only impossible but most unjust, and in this the Cause is in fundamental disagreement with the extreme socialists or communists. It cannot also agree with the other extreme tendency represented by the "Laissez-faire" or individualistic school of economics which became very popular in the late eighteenth century, by the so-called democratic countries. For absolute freedom, even in the economic sphere, leads to confusion and corruption, and acts not only to the detriment of the state, or the collectivity, but inevitably results in the end jeopardizing the very interests of the individual himself... The Cause can and indeed will in the future maintain the right balance between the two tendencies of individualism and collectivism, not only in the field of economics, but in all other social domains. (25 August 1939 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Strive, therefore, to create love in the hearts in order that they may become glowing and radiant. When that love is shining, it will permeate other hearts even as this electric light illumines its surroundings. When the love of God is established, everything else will be realized. This is the true foundation of all economics. Reflect upon it. Endeavor to become the cause of attraction of souls rather than to enforce minds. Manifest true economics to the people. Show what love is, what kindness is, what true severance is and generosity. PUP.239




And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is voluntary sharing of one's property with others among mankind. This voluntary sharing is greater than equality, and consists in this, that man should not prefer himself to others, but rather should sacrifice his life and property for others. But this should not be introduced by coercion so that it becomes a law and man is compelled to follow it. Nay, rather, man should voluntarily and of his own choice sacrifice his property and life for others, and spend willingly for the poor, just as is done in Persia among the Baha'is. SWAB#227 p302

'Abdu'l-Baha's statement regarding voluntary sharing of wealth, quoting ... and in another instance 2/5 is only indicative of the future trend. Similarly every reference to profit-sharing should be taken only as examples. The International House of Justice will legislate on all these matters. There is no system of Baha'i economics. We have only general principles. The system will be developed as the need arises. (Pilgrim notes of Emeric Sala, Dec. 1937)

All nations must become socialistic in spirit. People must not be forced by circumstances to help the poor. They must give aid willingly. That which the socialists aim to accomplish in the economic world will in time be done by the people freely through faith and love and cooperation. For that which is established through loving friendship is permanent. (Extract from a talk given in Washington D.C., 22 Apr. 1912, Barstow collection #336B. In answer to the question: "Could not the Baha'i Movement be furthered by use of socialist and labor union movements?")

But here is the real solution. The rich should be merciful to the poor, but with their free will, not with force. Should it be with force it would be useless. It should be according to law and not by violence, so that through a general law every one might know his duty. BSC#667

In the Bolshevistic principles equality is effected through force. The masses who are opposed to the people of rank and to the wealthy class desire to partake of their advantages. But in the divine teachings equality is brought about through a ready willingness to share. It is commanded as regards wealth that the rich among the people, and the aristocrats should, by their own free will and for the sake of their own happiness, concern themselves with and care for the poor. This equality is the result of the lofty characteristics and noble attributes of mankind. FWU.043-044

Hearts must be so cemented together, love must become so dominant that the rich shall most willingly extend assistance to the poor and take steps to establish these economic adjustments permanently. If it is accomplished in this way, it will be most praiseworthy because then it will be for the sake of God and in the pathway of His service. For example, it will be as if the rich inhabitants of a city should say, "It is neither just nor lawful that we should possess great wealth while there is abject poverty in this community," and then willingly give their wealth to the poor, retaining only as much as will enable them to live comfortably. PUP.238

To state the matter briefly, the Teachings of Baha'u'llah advocate voluntary sharing, and this is a greater thing than the equalization of wealth. For equalization must be imposed from without, while sharing is a matter of free choice.... Man reacheth perfection through good deeds, voluntarily performed, not through good deeds the doing of which was forced upon him. And sharing is a personally chosen righteous act: that is, the rich should extend assistance to the poor, they should expend their substance for the poor, but of their own free will, and not because the poor have gained this end by force. For the harvest of force is turmoil and the ruin of the social order. On the other hand voluntary sharing, the freely-chosen expending of one's substance, leadeth to society's comfort and peace. It lighteth up the world; it bestoweth honour upon humankind. SWAB#079 p.115

...it has been decreed in the divine religions that the wealthy should offer up each year a portion of their wealth for the sustenance of the poor and the assistance of the needy. This is one of the foundations of the religion of God and is an injunction binding upon all. And since in this regard one is not outwardly compelled or obliged by the government, but rather aids the poor at the prompting of one's own heart and in a spirit of joy and radiance, such a deed is most commendable, approved, and pleasing. SAQ#78.12

Fighting, and the employment of force, even for the right cause, will not bring about good results. The oppressed who have right on their side, must not take that right by force; the evil would continue. Hearts must be changed. The rich must wish to give! Life in man should be like a flame, warming all with whom it comes into contact. The spiritually awakened are like to bright torches in the sight of God, they give light and comfort to their fellows. AL.092




'Abdu'l-Baha's statement regarding voluntary sharing of wealth, quoting ... and in another instance 2/5 is only indicative of the future trend. Similarly every reference to profit-sharing should be taken only as examples. The International House of Justice will legislate on all these matters. There is no system of Baha'i economics. We have only general principles. The system will be developed as the need arises. (Pilgrim notes of Emeric Sala, Dec. 1937)

There are practically no technical teachings on economics in the Cause, such as banking, the price system, and others. The Cause is not an economic system, nor can its Founders be considered as having been technical economists. The contribution of the Faith to this subject is essentially indirect, as it consists in the application of spiritual principles to our present-day economic system. Baha'u'llah has given us a few basic principles which should guide future Baha'i economists in establishing such institutions which will adjust the economic relationships of the world. LG#1868 (26 Dec. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
