



Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the attributes and names of God, inasmuch as within every atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent testimony to the revelation of that Most Great Light. Methinks, but for the potency of that revelation, no being could ever exist. How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine in an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that surge within a drop! KI#107 p100-101, GWB#090 p177

...were man to gaze with the eye of divine and spiritual discernment, he will readily recognize that nothing whatsoever can exist without the revelation of the splendour of God, the ideal King. KI#149 p139

In another connection He saith: "O Sun-like Mirrors! Look ye upon the Sun of Truth. Ye, verily, depend upon it, were ye to perceive it. Ye are all as fishes, moving in the waters of the sea, veiling yourselves therefrom, and yet asking what it is on which ye depend." And likewise, He saith: "I complain unto thee, O Mirror of My generosity, against all the other Mirrors. All look upon Me through their own colors." ESW.160

All creatures that exist are dependent upon the Divine Bounty. Divine Mercy gives life itself. PT#05:11 p025

...things appear through the creative power of God. They are not His manifestations nor the incarnations of His reality.... The purpose of the world of contingency, therefore, is to attain to the station of existence, and this existence is caused by God's infinite divine bounty. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:141, in A World Faith, p. 23)

Question: Is the essence of the material creation the Spirit of God? Answer: No, it is not the Spirit of God, but it is the Bounty of God. It is not a part of God for it is His creation. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 36)

There can be no doubt whatever that if for one moment the tide of His mercy and grace were to be withheld from the world, it would completely perish. GWB#027 p068

Were the Hand of Divine power to divest of this high endowment all created things, the entire universe would become desolate and void. GWB#093 p184

I can have no doubt that should the holy breaths of Thy loving-kindness and the breeze of Thy bountiful favor cease, for less than the twinkling of an eye, to breathe over all created things, the entire creation would perish, and all that are in heaven and on earth would be reduced to utter nothingness. PM#058 p090

...all the earth's creatures require the bounty of the sun, for their very existence is dependent upon solar light and heat. Should they be deprived of the sun, they would be wiped out. This is the being with God, as referred to in the Holy Books: man must be with his Lord. SWAB#021 p050

The reality of the Divinity is even as the sun, which from the heights of its sanctity shines upon every land, and of whose radiance every land and every soul receives a share. Were it not for this light and this radiance, nothing could exist. ...all created things tell of this light, partake of its rays, and receive their portion thereof... SAQ#59.8 (was SAQ.222)

Know, moreover, that should the cord of assistance binding this mighty Pivot to the dwellers of earth and heaven be severed, they would all assuredly perish. GDM#111 p075

All creatures are dependent upon God, however great may seem their knowledge, power and independence. PT#03:4 p019




Every created being however revealeth His signs which are but emanations from Him and not His Own Self. All these signs are reflected and can be seen in the book of existence, and the scrolls that depict the shape and pattern of the universe are indeed a most great book.... Consider the rays of the sun whose light hath encompassed the world. The rays emanate from the sun and reveal its nature, but are not the sun itself. TB.060-061

The connection between God and His creation is that of the originator and the originated, of the sun and the dark bodies of the universe, of the craftsman and his handiwork. Not only is the sun sanctified in its very essence above all the bodies that receive its illumination, but its light is also, in its essence, sanctified from and independent of the earth. So, though the earth is nurtured by the sun and is the recipient of its light, the sun and its rays are nonetheless sanctified above it. But were it not for the sun, the earth and all terrestrial life could not exist. The procession of creation from God is a procession through emanation. That is, creation emanates from God; it does not manifest Him. The connection is that of emanation [sudur] and not of manifestation [zuhur]. SAQ#53.2-3 (was SAQ.202)

...that Essence of sanctity is the sum of all divine and lordly perfections, and all creatures receive illumination from His emanational appearance and partake of the lights of His celestial perfection and beauty, in the same way that all earthly creatures acquire the grace of light from the rays of the sun, without any descent or abasement of the latter into the recipient realities of these earthly beings. SAQ#82.18 (was SAQ.296)

Existence is realized and possible through the bounty of God, just as the ray or flame emanating from this lamp is realized through the bounty of the lamp, from which it originates. PUP.286

The world of existence is an emanation of the merciful attribute of God.  God has shone forth upon the phenomena of being through His effulgence of mercy... PUP.390

Ar-Razi ... represented the Creator as well as the creation in the category of light: Our reason is light of the Light of God. Everything spiritual is a reflection of the Light of God. The creation is an emanation of light of the eternal Light. (Fallscheer notes, p. 52)

Creation is an emanation from the creator.... Creation is like the sunlight; God is the sun. ADP.108

The reality of the Divinity is even as the sun, which from the heights of its sanctity shines upon every land, and of whose radiance every land and every soul receives a share. Were it not for this light and this radiance, nothing could exist. ...all created things tell of this light, partake of its rays, and receive their portion thereof... SAQ#59.8 (was SAQ.222)

The first emanation is the outpouring grace of the Kingdom, which has emanated from God and has appeared in the realities of all things, even as the rays emanating from the sun are reflected in all things. And that grace--the rays--appears in infinite forms in the realities of all things, and is specified and individuated according to their capacity, receptivity, and essence. SAQ#82.17 (was SAQ.295)

So the great light abides and shines, and its radiance goes out through the world in rational order and proportion... Plotinus, Enn.IV.3.17

The real Existence through which all things are realized, that is, the reality of the divine Essence through which all things have come to exist, is acknowledged by all. The difference resides in the fact that the Sufis maintain that the realities of all things are the manifestation of the One [wahid-i haqiqi], whereas the Prophets say that they emanate therefrom. And great indeed is the difference between manifestation and emanation. SAQ#82.16 (was SAQ.294)

God said: I was a hidden treasure and desired to be known, therefore, I created the universe. I created it not out of nothingness but through self-emanation; my breath became [the] creative word of command, logos (see Evangile of John, introduction), which resulted in form and figure. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 3)

The Word of God is the king of words and its pervasive influence is incalculable. It hath ever dominated and will continue to dominate the realm of being.... It is an ocean inexhaustible in riches, comprehending all things. Every thing which can be perceived is but an emanation (zahir) therefrom. TB.173, Ruhi6.1.23

Say, He Whom God shall make manifest is indeed the Primal Veil of God. Above this Veil ye can find nothing other than God, while beneath it ye can discern all things emanating from God. He is the Unseen, the Inaccessible, the Most Exalted, the Best Beloved. SWB.131

And when there has shone forth, with all the limitless Divine Names and Attributes, from the Dawning Place of Creation [ibda'] upon and for the sake of Possible Being, that is the station of the appearance of a wondrous creation and a new handiwork which is the station of 'and so I created the Creation.' ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:050)

The Mosaic story of creation oftentimes is misunderstood by learned men as well as laymen. God did not create the world out of nothing. The early Christian church teachers have spoken in incorrect interpretation of the bible, of a 'creatio ex nihilo', that is 'creation out of nothing'. That is an error. Moses teaches: 'In the beginning, God created heaven and earth. And the earth was deserted and empty, and it was dark in the depth and the spirit of God floated above the water. And God said: There shall be light! and there was light, etc.' Here nowhere is written that God created the world out of nothing. Nothingness should be the antithesis, the opposite, of God. The answer to that however is: 'In the beginning of the creation of the world, God emanated the heaven and the earth.... (From a talk entitled Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 5)

...the world (the cosmos) is a reflection of the Creator. The Godhead is represented in the category (the image) of the light, the sun, and the created (the world) is a reflection of Divine Light, for the relationship of the created to the Creator is incomprehensible and can only be seen and represented in a pale comparison (analogy). (Fallscheer notes, p. 27)

From each and every revelation emanating from the Source of His glory, holy and never-ending evidences of unimaginable splendor have appeared, and out of every manifestation of His invincible power oceans of eternal light have outpoured. GWB#026 p060-061




To maintain that the testimony of Providence was incomplete, that it hath therefore been the cause of the denial of the people, is but open blasphemy.... Nay, the manifold bounties of the Lord of all beings have, at all times, through the Manifestations of His divine Essence, encompassed the earth and all that dwell therein. Not for a moment hath His grace been withheld, nor have the showers of His loving-kindness ceased to rain upon mankind. KI#014 p013-014; GWB#013 p018

...the light of divine knowledge and heavenly grace hath illumined and inspired the essence of all created things, in such wise that in each and every thing a door of knowledge hath been opened, and within every atom traces of the sun hath been made manifest. KI#028 p030

In this day the breeze of God is wafted, and His Spirit hath pervaded all things. Such is the outpouring of His grace that the pen is stilled and the tongue is speechless. KI#197 p180-181

Look not upon the creatures of God except with the eye of kindliness and of mercy, for Our loving providence hath pervaded all created things, and Our grace encompassed the earth and the heavens. GWB#014 p033

Know thou that every created thing is a sign of the revelation of God. Each, according to its capacity, is, and will ever remain, a token of the Almighty.... ...each and every created thing hath, through the act of the Divine Will, been made a sign of His glory. So pervasive and general is this revelation that nothing whatsoever in the whole universe can be discovered that doth not reflect His splendor. Under such conditions every consideration of proximity and remoteness is obliterated. GWB#093 p184

It should be borne in mind, however, that when the light of My Name, the All-Pervading, hath shed its radiance upon the universe, each and every created thing hath, according to a fixed decree, been endowed with the capacity to exercise a particular influence, and been made to possess a distinct virtue. GWB#093 p189

...they know not what Thou hast ordained for them by virtue of Thy mercy that encompasseth the whole of creation. GWB#127 p274

He it is Who is now proclaiming from the realms above, and within the inmost essence of all created things: 'I truly am God, there is none other God but Me.'... Thus hath His grace encompassed thee, and encompassed the whole of creation. GWB#139 p302-303

This is the Mercy that hath encompassed the entire creation, the Day whereon the grace of God hath permeated and pervaded all things. GWB#142 p308

Every existence, whether seen or unseen, O my Lord, testifieth that Thy mercy hath surpassed all created things, and Thy loving-kindness embraced the entire creation. PM#069 p113-114

Thy mercy hath embraced the whole creation, and Thy grace hath pervaded all things. PM#153 p246

I testify to the potency of Thy Cause, the pervasive influence of Thy decree, the immutability of Thy will, the endlessness of Thy purpose. PM#161 p253

Should a tiny ant desire, in this day, to be possessed of such power as to be able to unravel the abstrusest and most bewildering passages of the Qur'an, its wish will no doubt be fulfilled, inasmuch as the mystery of eternal might vibrates within the innermost being of all created things. ADJ#069 p046; WOB.127 (The Bab, quoted by 'Abdu'l-Baha)

As for the heavenly Jerusalem that hath come rest on the summits of the world, and God's Holy of Holies, ... it is the glory of the perfections of God, the circumambient grace of all existence, the ornament bedecking all created things... SWAB#029 p060

The grace of God is beating down upon mankind, even as the rains in spring, and the rays of the manifest Light have made this earth to be the envy of heaven. But alas, the blind are deprived of this bounty... so that even as flooding waters, this endless stream of grace passeth back into its primal source in a hidden sea. Only a few receive this grace and take their share of it. SWAB#221 p277

The first emanation is the outpouring grace of the Kingdom, which has emanated from God and has appeared in the realities of all things, even as the rays emanating from the sun are reflected in all things. And that grace--the rays--appears in infinite forms in the realities of all things, and is specified and individuated according to their capacity, receptivity, and essence. SAQ#82.17 (was SAQ.295)

The bestowals of God ... are manifest in all phenomenal life....  The bestowals of God are all and always present.  The promises of God are all and always manifest.  The favors of God are all-surrounding. PUP.090

...divine bestowals are like the sea, and we are the fishes of that sea.... Provision for the sustenance of all is in the ocean; therefore, the divine bounties encompass all, and love eternal shines upon all. PUP.131

God Who breathed the breath of the Holy Spirit upon His servants will breathe it upon them now and hereafter. There is no cessation to His bounty. The Divine Spirit is penetrating from eternity to eternity, for it is the bounty of God, and the bounty of God is eternal. PUP.158

Physically and spiritually we are submerged in the sea of God's favor. PUP.237

...the mercy of God encircles all mankind, that not a single individual is deprived of the mercy of God, and no soul is denied the resplendent bestowals of God. The whole human race is submerged in the sea of the mercy of the Lord... PUP.444

...the Essence of Divinity, the Sun of Truth, shines forth upon all horizons and is spreading its rays upon all things.  Each creature is the recipient of some portion of that power... AL.023

...that unseen and unknowable Being is like unto the sun, which hath dawned above all things and from whose rays all creatures, whether mineral, plant, animal, or human, obtain illumination. That is to say, its effulgent rays shine upon them all and they, in turn, reflect faithfully its light. Thus, if thou dost gaze upon the stone, the earth, the plant, the animal, and man, thou wilt find them one and all to be partaking of the bounty of the sun. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:355)

How all-encompassing are the wonders of His boundless grace! Behold how they have pervaded the whole creation. Such is their virtue that not a single atom in the entire universe can be found which doth not declare the evidences of His might... GWB#026 p062

Were ye to be fair in your judgment, ye would readily recognize how the realities of all created things are inebriated with the joy of this new and wondrous Revelation, how all the atoms of the earth have been illuminated through the brightness of its glory.... the revelations of My grace and bounty have permeated every atom of the universe... GWB#153 p324-325

Christ was a divine mercy which shone upon all mankind, the medium for the descent of the bounty of God, and the bounty of God is transcendent, unrestricted, universal. PUP.041

Consider, for instance, the revelation of the light of the Name of God, the Educator (rabb). Behold, how in all things the evidences of such a revelation are manifest, how the betterment of all beings dependeth upon it. This education is of two kinds. The one is universal. Its influence pervadeth all things and sustaineth them. It is for this reason that God hath assumed the title, 'Lord of all worlds.' (rabbu'l-'alamin) The other is confined to them that have come under the shadow of this Name, and sought the shelter of this most mighty Revelation. GWB#093 p189-190

...all phenomena in the inner world of reality receive the bounties of God from the source of divine bestowal. This human plane, or kingdom, is one creation, and all souls are the signs and traces of the divine bounty. In this plane there are no exceptions; all have been recipients of their bestowals through the heavenly bounty.... all phenomena in the inner world of reality receive the bounties of God from the source of divine bestowal... PUP.286

Were the possessor of insight to consider with discernment and to ponder all that hath been and will be manifested, he will witness the fruits of the tree of divine wisdom within all things. Blessed is the fairminded observer; and blessed is He Who knoweth and is informed of all. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.058)

Consider, in like manner, the revelation of the light of the Name of God, the Incomparable. Behold, how this light hath enveloped the entire creation, how each and every thing manifesteth the sign of His Unity, testifieth to the reality of Him Who is the Eternal Truth, proclaimeth His sovereignty, His oneness, and His power. This revelation is a token of His mercy that hath encompassed all created things. GWB#093 p190

At every moment all things are speaking forth, but the ears are deprived of hearing. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK1.185)




In every age and cycle He hath, through the splendorous light shed by the Manifestations of His wondrous Essence, recreated all things... GWB#026 p062

Through the movement of Our Pen of glory We have, at the bidding of the omnipotent Ordainer, breathed a new life into every human frame, and instilled into every word a fresh potency. All created things proclaim the evidences of this world-wide regeneration. GWB#043 p092-093, TB.084, ADJ#111 p120, Ruhi5.3.10

Such as communicate the generating influence and such as receive its impact are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His Word are but the creatures and the effects thereof.... Every thing must needs have an origin and every building a builder. Verily, the Word of God is the Cause which hath preceded the contingent world -- a world which is adorned with the splendours of the Ancient of Days, yet is being renewed and regenerated at all times. Immeasurably exalted is the God of Wisdom Who hath raised this sublime structure. TB.140-141

God did not create the world suddenly but God's breath of life becomes God's creative word of command, logos, which continuously creates the world. We have a continuing and not a single act of creation. (From a talk entitled Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 5)

It is God Who originates creation and repeats it... (Qur'an 10:34, also 27:64)

...in Ibn 'Arabi's world-view, the self-manifestation of the Absolute is a perpetual process whose major stages - (1) the 'most holy emanation', (2) the 'holy emanation', and then (3) the appearance of concrete individual things - go on being actualized one after another like successive, recurrent waves. This ontological process repeats itself indefinitely and endlessly. At every moment, and moment after moment, the same eternal process of annihilation and re-creation is repeated. (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 205)

This is the Day whereon naught can be seen except the splendors of the Light that shineth from the face of Thy Lord, the Gracious, the Most Bountiful. Verily, We have caused every soul to expire by virtue of Our irresistible and all-subduing sovereignty. We have, then, called into being a new creation, as a token of Our grace unto men. GWB#014 p029-030, Ruhi4.3.23

Know thou moreover that every created thing is continually brought forth and returned at the bidding of thy Lord, the God of power and might. TB.183

Let it not be hidden from the reader of these words that God made the creation of the Qur'an return ('awd farmud) on the Day of Resurrection through the appearance of his own Self (bi-zuhur-i nafs-i u) on that Day. Then He created all things anew (bid'an), as if they had been created in that very moment. (Persian Bayan 1:1, quoted in Eschraghi, MNP.226)




...all things, in their inmost reality, testify to the revelation of the names and attributes of God within them. Each according to its capacity, indicateth, and is expressive of, the knowledge (ma'arifat) of God. So potent and universal is this revelation, that it hath encompassed all things, visible and invisible. KI#109 p102, GWB#090 p178, Ruhi3a.L15

The portals of Thy grace have throughout eternity been open, and the means of access unto Thy Presence made available, unto all created things, and the revelations of Thy matchless Beauty have at all times been imprinted upon the realities of all beings, visible and invisible. GWB#026 p063

Physically and spiritually we are submerged in the sea of God's favor. PUP.237

Praise be to Him Who hath made the world of being, and hath fashioned all that is, Him Who hath raised up the sincere to a station of honour and hath made the invisible world to appear on the plane of the visible... SWAB#004 p013

Praise be to God Who hath ever caused His Names and Attributes to penetrate the degrees of existence; Who hath made the effects of those Names and Attributes to shine resplendent and their signs to be firmly established in both the hidden and manifest worlds. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:013)

Though the wonders of My mercy have encompassed all created things, both visible and invisible, and though the revelations of My grace and bounty have permeated every atom of the universe, yet the rod with which I can chastise the wicked is grievous, and the fierceness of Mine anger against them terrible. GWB#153 p325




...the Divine Breath englobes all the forms of the world; in face, it is for them like the Materia Prima (al-jawhar al-hayulani), which is nothing but the first determination of Universal Nature (al-tabi'ah). (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 75. Cf. Izutsu's commentary: "the 'breath of the Merciful' is the principle of Being or the ground of Being extending over both the world of material things and the world of spiritual beings. In this ontological capacity, the 'breath of the Merciful' is regarded by Ibn 'Arabi as Nature (tabi`ah). Viewed from this perspective, the 'breath' is a Substance (jawhar, in the Aristotelian sense of Prime Matter) in which all the forms of Being, both material and spiritual, are manifested." Sufism and Taoism, pp. 133-134)

Universal Nature is none other, in reality, than the Breath of Mercy (an-nafas ar-rahmani) in which are deployed the forms of the world, from the highest to the lowest, by the infusion (suryan) of the Divine Breath in the 'material prima' (al-jawhar al-hayulani); it is that which has taken place for the world of (terrestrial and celestial) bodies... (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 122)

...in reality, Nature is no other than the 'breath of the Merciful' [al-nafas al-rahmaniy]. All the forms of the world become manifest in the latter, ranging from the highest forms to the lowest, in virtue of the spreading of the 'breath' through the material substance of the world of physical bodies in particular. The 'breath' spreads also through the Being of the spirits of a luminous nature and the attributes. But that is another kind of the spreading of the 'breath'. ...the Divine breath acts as the Prime Matter in relation to the forms of the world. And (the Divine breath in this capacity) is precisely what we call Nature. (Ibn 'Arabi, in Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 134. See also Corbin, Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 298)
