



Not so among the Prophets who have proven the existence of three worlds; the world of God, the world of Command, and the world of creation.... The world of Command is the station of the Primal Will which is a universal reality that is resolved into infinite forms. It is the Ocean of the Will which is the World of Command. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:141, in A World Faith, pp. 22-23, excerpt here)

The qualities of the Primal Will are 'resolved into the tangible life creative forces manifest in the suns of the material universe' (Pilgrim note attributed to 'Abdu'l-Baha)




The first thing to emanate [sadir] from God is that universal reality which the ancient philosophers termed the "First Intellect" ['aql-i-avval] and which the people of Baha call the "Primal Will" [mashiyyat-i-avvaliyyih]. This emanation, with respect to its action in the world of God, is not limited by either time or place and has neither beginning nor end, for in relation to God the beginning and the end are one and the same. The pre-existence of God is both essential and temporal, while the origination of the contingent world is essential but not temporal, as we have already explained another day at table. Though the First Intellect is without beginning, this does not mean that it shares in the pre-existence of God, for in relation to the existence of God the existence of that universal Reality is mere nothingness--it cannot even be said to exist, let alone to partake of the pre-existence of God. SAQ#53.5-6 (was SAQ.203)

Praise and thanksgiving be unto Providence that out of all the realities in existence He has chosen the reality of man and has honored it with intellect and wisdom, the two most luminous lights in either world. Through the agency of this great endowment, He has in every epoch cast on the mirror of creation new and wonderful configurations. If we look objectively upon the world of being, it will become apparent that from age to age, the temple of existence has continually been embellished with a fresh grace, and distinguished with an ever-varying splendor, deriving from wisdom and the power of thought. This supreme emblem of God stands first in the order of creation and first in rank, taking precedence over all created things. Witness to it is the Holy Tradition, 'Before all else, God created the mind ('aql).' From the dawn of creation, it was made to be revealed in the temple of man. Sanctified is the Lord, Who with the dazzling rays of this strange, heavenly power has made our world of darkness the envy of the worlds of light.... SDC.001, Ruhi8.1.23




...we must lay down that there is one intellect, unchangeably the same, without any sort of decline, imitating the Father as far as is possible to it. Plotinus, Enn.II.9.2     Will and thought: the contemplative ... Intellect ... rests in the Good, being without need and fulfilled, and, one might say, living according to its will; but its will is its thought... Enn.VI.8.6     ...there is an Intellect other than that which is called reasoning and reckoning... one must say that Intellect is a quiet and undisturbed movement, having all things in itself and being all things, a multiplicity which is undivided and yet again divided. Enn.VI.9.5

...even if we have not discovered any time that existed before wisdom (since wisdom was first of all created things, and precedes the creation of time), nevertheless it follows that before wisdom is the eternity of its Creator, from whom wisdom took her beginning when she was made--not her beginning in time, for as yet there was no time, but the beginning of her creation. (St. Augustine, Confessions 12.15.20)




...before the kindling and manifestation of the fire of Primal Unity by itself and for itself, the totality of the manifestations are within the Invisible Essence. This is the station of the 'Hidden Treasure'. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.33, MKT2:050)

The first thing to emanate [sadir] from God is that universal reality which the ancient philosophers termed the "First Intellect" ['aql-i-avval] and which the people of Baha call the "Primal Will" [mashiyyat-i-avvaliyyih]. This emanation, with respect to its action in the world of God, is not limited by either time or place and has neither beginning nor end, for in relation to God the beginning and the end are one and the same. The pre-existence of God is both essential and temporal, while the origination of the contingent world is essential but not temporal, as we have already explained another day at table. Though the First Intellect is without beginning, this does not mean that it shares in the pre-existence of God, for in relation to the existence of God the existence of that universal Reality is mere nothingness--it cannot even be said to exist, let alone to partake of the pre-existence of God. SAQ#53.5-6 (was SAQ.203)

In truth I have created Thee through Thyself, then at My Own behest I have fashioned all things through the creative power of Thy Word. We are All-Powerful.  I have appointed Thee to be the Beginning and the End, the Seen and the Hidden.  SWB.159

He, the invisible, the lofty and the incomprehensible, is preceded by no cause but rather is the Originator of the cause of causes. SWAB#030 p061

God created all things by His Primal Will, and this Primal Will by Itself. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:6)

He has created Will from nothingness. It is a cause unto itself. This Will cannot be explained or qualified. Subsequently, He created all things as an effect of this Will. (The Bab, provisional translation, AvK1.099. For more in the Bab's Writings on this theme see BSB3:1 p.51 fn.1-2)

In truth the eternal Essence incarnates itself in no creation. The beginning of the manifestation of the Primal Will is of the Will itself, for the Prophethood of the Prophet bases itself upon the words that He pronounces.... (The Bab, provisional translation, Surih revealed at Maku, Le Béyan Arabe, p. 24 and P. Terry's translation, pp. 9-10)

God, the Most High, created the Primal Will and by it created all things. But as the actual creation of all things is a new creation it follows that it was of His eternal creation, eternal in the past, as there has never been a time when God was and there were no servants to adore Him. (The Bab, provisional translation, exordium to the Persian Bayan, Le Béyan Persan, pp. 9-10 and P. Terry's anaylsis, p. 12)

The cause of the Will, in truth, is not the eternal Essence.... He created the Unity (the Primal Will) from itself, by itself and made it to be the cause of the existence of all the existences. (The Bab, provisional translation, Suriy-i-Tawhid, Le Béyan Arabe, pp. 29-31 and P. Terry's translation, pp. 11-12)

Just as He [God] does not need for His being alive the existence of anything other than Him, He also does not need for His knowledge the existence of objects of knowledge. And the Essence [of God] continues to be [un]connected to things. The causation (`illiyya) of created things is His handiwork (san`ihi) and this is the [Primal] Will, which God has created through itself by itself without any fire from the Essence [of God] touching it.[1] And God has created existent things through it and it continues. The All-High does [not] speak except through it; and the All-High does not give any indication of its essence (dhatiyyatiha). And God has not given any sign of His Essence in [the whole of] creation (al-imkan), for His Being (kaynunatihi) sets beings apart from being known, and His Essence (dhatiyyatihi) prevents essences from being explained. Verily the relationship of the [Primal] Will to Him is like the relationship of a verse [of scripture] to God. It is a relationship that is conferred upon Creation not upon the Essence [of God], for It is sanctified from the mention of any indications or relationships or evidences or signs or stations or effulgences or breezes relating to It; and that being the case none can know It except Itself. And such expressions as Oneness of Being and the mention of the Uncompounded Reality is witness, in the estimation of the people of the covenants (ahl al-`uhud), to its falsity, for He is the one who there is no one other than He with Him. (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, INBA86:95-96, in Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah)     [1] Cf. Qur'an 24:34: God is the light of the heavens and the earth. His light is like a niche in which is a lamp; the lamp encased in glass; the glass as it were a brilliant star lit from a blessed tree, an olive of neither the East nor the West, whose oil is beginning to burst into light, though no fire has touched it. Light upon light. God guideth whomsoever He willeth to His light; and of all things, God is knowing. see 'Abdu'l-Baha's commentary on this verse in PT#22:8 p069 and Baha'u'llah's Tafsir-i-Hurufat-i-Muqatta'ih.

The Will is the First Remembrance.'... The cause of all things is the First Remembrance that God created from nothing. And he made in it the cause of all the creatures. As the Imam revealeth, ... 'The cause of things is the handiwork of God and this Handiwork hath no cause.' (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, Le Béyan Arabe, pp. 26-27; Suriy-i-Tawhid, ca. p. 79)

In truth, the relation of the Will with God is like that of the House (the Ka'bih) with the Supreme Being. This relation is a relation of honor for the creature, but not for the Essence, for God is pure. (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, Le Béyan Arabe, pp. 26-27; Suriy-i-Tawhid, ca. p. 79)

...the reality of the Sanctified Essence cannot descend into the world of creation.... Rather it is the Primal Will, which consists of the bounty of the rays of the Sun, which is the cause of the manifestation and appearance of beings. This is the truth and naught lieth beyond the truth but error. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:358)

...no difference whatsoever exists between the Essence and the [essential] Attributes. And so in this respect no one can penetrate that Knowledge which is identical to the Essence in order to be able to determine the relationship between the Knowledge of the Absolute and things, whether it calls for objects of knowledge or not; whether it is dependent on the realities and potentialities of things or not. Certainly knowledge without an object of knowledge is not possible in the contingent world, but no-one knows [how the matter stands within] the Essence [of the Absolute]. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:029-030)

For the motion of the hand of the writer is not the source of the writing itself, but only the cause of its coming into being. But the writing is composed from the ink and the form of the ink.... The recipient of the action (al-maf'ul) is not composed from the action but existentiated by the action and composed from matter and form. (Shaykh Ahmad, Sharh al-Masha'ir p. 153. Translated in Brown (2001), 73)

How did it come to be then...? It must be a radiation from it while it remains unchanged, like the bright light of the sun which, so to speak, runs round it, springing from it continually while it remains unchanged. Plotinus, Enn.V.1.6     How then does it [the Good] generate Intellect? Because by its return to it it sees: and this seeing is Intellect.... This Intellect of which we are speaking ... should spring from nowhere else but the first principle, and when it has come into existence should generate all realities along with itself... Enn.V.1.     ...the One, ... overflows, as it were, and its superabundance makes something other than itself. This, when it has come into being, turns back upon the One and is filled, and becomes Intellect by looking towards it. Enn.V.2.1     ...the first activity, which, so to speak, flows from it like a light from the sun, is Intellect and the whole intelligible nature, but that he himself, staying still at the summit of the intelligible, rules over it; he does not thrust the outshining away from himself--or we shall make another light before light--but he irradiates for ever abiding unchanged over the intelligible. Enn.V.3.12     Just as a circle, therefore, which touches the centre all round... it is like this that we must apprehend that Intellect-Being, coming to be from that Good and as if poured out and spread out and hanging out from it... Enn.VI.8.18

All things depend utterly on the Will of God and this Will depends utterly on God, the Unique One. God is unconnected to anything else; all else is His creation. His Will is likewise created by Him; all things radiate from the Primal Will which He created.... (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 2:8)

Therefore, a spirit has emanated from the reality of Divinity, and its effulgences have become visible in human entities or realities.... The more the world of humanity develops, the more the effulgences or emanations of Divinity will become revealed, just as the stone, when it becomes polished and pure as a mirror, will reflect in fuller degree the glory and splendor of the sun. PUP.059

God, verily, created the Will from nothing through itself, then He created through it all that to which the name "thing" can be applied. The cause of its existence, in truth, is its own self and naught else. Those who believe that the Essence is the cause of creation have made themselves partners with Him, as He cannot be known. He, verily, abideth in a state accessible only to Himself. Nothing is connected to Him, and in Him not a trace of the existence belonging to created things can be found. It is established in philosophy that cause and effect are alike. Therefore, the Imam hath declared: "The cause of things is His fashioning, but He is not its cause."     The feet of some of the learned have slipped in their explanation of this station, inasmuch as they have believed in something that God hath not purposed in His Book. Haply God may forgive them through His grace. He, verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful. Those who claim that there is a direct tie between God and creation have followed after their own desires, as others have followed them aforetime. This is an error in the estimation of the people of sanctity, for if we attribute such a connection to the Essence, then nothing in the religion of the Family of God is true. Nay, this is joining partners with Him, as I recited to thee previously. And if the connection resideth in creation, then there is no need for the people of the Bayan to prove it. This is why the Imam (upon him be peace) hath stated: "No third thing existeth between God and creation, and no third thing existeth apart from these two." This is well known by he whom God hath called to witness the creation of the heavens and the earth, and then the creation of himself. God is a sufficient witness unto what I say.     Those who say the fixed archetypes reside in the Essence of God in order to establish His knowledge, as all believe save those whom God hath pleased to preserve, have completely forsaken the religion of the Family of God, for any reference to otherness in their being testifieth to their separation and indicateth their complete rupture from God. God is the eternal Being, Who from time immemorial hath not changed, and it is not possible for divine unity to belong to anyone save Himself. All things are the images of substances whose existence hath no trace in God....Verily, God is the eternal Being, Who begetteth not and was not begotten. He hath no likeness in the realm of creation and no sign in the world of contingency, for a sign is a sign of one who is not indicated by himself for himself and an attribution is a description of one who is not described by himself for himself. Far exalted is God above that which they who make comparisons to Him invent concerning the oneness of existence. There is no statement in the estimation of God more absurd than this saying of theirs, for they mean by it that creation is the branch of the one Being. Verily, the Essence hath ever been void of His creation and He was apart from it when it came into being. No aspect of it is in Him.     The philosophers were compelled to propose the doctrine of the fixed archetypes and the uncompounded reality by their desire to establish the former in the knowledge of God. But gracious God! To establish God's knowledge of His creatures can only lead to falsehood, since from time immemorial God's knowledge hath been the same as Himself without another object of knowledge within Him. No one can understand the state of His Being except Himself. And whosoever aspireth to encompass the knowledge of his Lord at the same moment disbelieveth in Him, for how is anyone able to encompass the knowledge of his Lord whose very reality existeth through His act of creation [ibda] and was brought into being from nothing? He hath ever been the All-Knowing, even though nothing was with Him; and He is now the All-Knowing, despite the fact that nothing is with Him in His exalted station. The attributes of power and knowledge, and all the other names and attributes, are signs belonging to His creation and the musings of the imaginations of His servants that they may not doubt their Creator in anything. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir-i-Ha, AvK1.100-102, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages)

God created the Will through its own Self, and created all things through the Will. AvK1.106n (Hadith of Imam Ja'far a's-Sadiq)

He [God] hath not begotten anything; rather He hath created all beings by His Will, and created the Will by Itself. Verily that Will is the First Point mentioned at the level of the contingent world. And the Will is the First Utterance [dhikr] confirmed by God Himself as His own praise. "Verily I am God; there is none other God but Me. I was a Hidden Treasure. I wished to be made known, and thus I called creation into being in order that I might be made known." (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.096)

Bear thou witness ... that verily God, glorified be He, hath ever been, and will ever exist without anything to exist with Him. He verily hath created all things by virtue of His Will (Mashiyyah), and hath created the Will by Itself, out of nothing else.... All things are created and affected by It. Then behold naught in the heavens, the earth, and that which lieth between them, save as the effect thereof. They all, verily, are fashioned by the Will and have proceeded from It, while It is verily created by Itself and abideth beneath Its Own Essence. It hath proceeded from God, Its Lord, and unto God, Its Fashioner, It shall return... (The Bab, provisional translation, from the Panj Sha'n, GOH.177, GOH.191)

Verily God hath intended by these exalted words to sanctify His Essence utterly from any attribute of causation, refuting the views of those who have considered the Essence to be the Cause of all causes. For, verily, that Cause is His Handiwork, and that Handiwork is not preceded by any cause, to such an extent that the tongue of His favoured ones repeatedly addressed this absence of causation by the Essence. Had it been the Essence that was also the Cause, this would have required association and resemblance. Yet exalted and glorified then be God! He hath fashioned the Will from nothingness, through Itself, and ordained It to be the Cause of all that is other than It, with no descent of anything from His Essence unto the Will. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.192)

Praise be unto God Who hath brought forth the Primal Will from naught, through itself, for itself, of itself, and made it the embroidered vesture of His Own Being's Countenance. (The Bab, provisional translations, BB00677)




No sign can indicate His presence or His absence; inasmuch as by a word of His command all that are in heaven and on earth have come to exist, and by His wish, which is the Primal Will itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being, the world of the visible. KI#104 p098

Indeed He was a hidden treasure. This is a station that can never be described nor even alluded to. And in the station of 'I did wish to make Myself known', God was, and His creation had ever existed beneath His shelter from the beginning that hath no beginning, apart from its being preceded by a Firstness which cannot be regarded as a firstness and originated by a Cause inscrutable even unto all men of learning. TB.140

Out of the wastes of nothingness, with the clay of My command I made thee to appear, and have ordained for thy training every atom in existence and the essence of all created things. PHW#29

God created all things by His Primal Will, and this Primal Will by Itself. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:6)

The Will is the First Remembrance.'... The cause of all things is the First Remembrance that God created from nothing. And he made in it the cause of all the creatures. As the Imam revealeth, ... 'The cause of things is the handiwork of God and this Handiwork hath no cause.' (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, Le Béyan Arabe, pp. 26-27; Suriy-i-Tawhid, ca. p. 79)

...the reality of the Sanctified Essence cannot descend into the world of creation.... Rather it is the Primal Will, which consists of the bounty of the rays of the Sun, which is the cause of the manifestation and appearance of beings. This is the truth and naught lieth beyond the truth but error. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:358)

The Manifestation of God and the sea of names and attributes which reflect God are always and only His creations and not His Essence.... Creation is through the Manifestation of God, which is the Primal Will, which is the Word of God. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:6)

...the Well Springs of wisdom have themselves been generated through the operation of Thy Will.... they Who are the Quintessence of knowledge are but thy creation and instruments of Thy Purpose. GWB#001 p003

A sprinkling from the unfathomed deep of His sovereign and all-pervasive Will hath, out of utter nothingness, called into being a creation which is infinite in its range and deathless in its duration. The wonders of His bounty can never cease, and the stream of His merciful grace can never be arrested. The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end. GWB#026 p061

Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth therein, He, through the direct operation of His unconstrained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinction and capacity to know (ma'rifat) Him and to love Him - a capacity that must needs be regarded as the generating impulse and the primary purpose underlying the whole of creation. GWB#027 p065; Ruhi1.3.10

Through His world-pervading Will He hath brought into being all created things.... All that is in heaven and all that is in the earth have come to exist at His bidding, and by His Will all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being. How can, therefore, the creature which the Word of God hath fashioned comprehend the nature of Him Who is the Ancient of Days? GWB#148 p318

Ye dwell in one world, and have been created through the operation of one Will. GWB#156 p334

I beseech Thee ... by the energies of Thy Will whereby the entire creation hath been generated... PM#058 p089

...the minds of the wise and learned are impotent to fathom the secrets of Thy handiwork - a handiwork which is itself but a creation of Thy will... PM#058 p092-093

Thereby have Thy servants, who were created through the word of Thy commandment, and were begotten by Thy will, caviled at me... PM#179 p309

...no God is there save Him, Who hath created the universe and fashioned all things by the agency of his Primal Will, the cause of all that hath been and shall be. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in JBS2:3 p.24)

Everything thou beholdest hath been called into being through the operation of His Will. SWB.125

All things depend utterly on the Will of God and this Will depends utterly on God, the Unique One. God is unconnected to anything else; all else is His creation. His Will is likewise created by Him; all things radiate from the Primal Will which He created.... (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 2:8)

Verily, the cause of the contingent existence is one creation of God, and it is the Will. (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, in Le Béyan Arabe, pp. 10-12)

...the Primal Will, by means of which God created all who are in the heavens and on the earth and what is between them. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, in BSB3:1 p.31)

God hath, out of sheer nothingness and through the potency of His command, created the heavens and the earth and whatever lieth between them. SWB.062

All the wondrous works ye behold in this world have been manifested through the operation of His supreme and most exalted Will, His wondrous and inflexible Purpose.... No sooner is this resplendent word uttered, than its animating energies, stirring within all created things, give birth to the means and instruments whereby such arts can be produced and perfected.... In like manner, the moment the word expressing My attribute 'The Omniscient' issueth forth from My mouth, every created thing will, according to its capacity and limitations, be invested with the power to unfold the knowledge of the most marvelous sciences, and will be empowered to manifest them in the course of time... GWB#074 p141-142

The entire creation hath been called into being through the Will of God, magnified be His glory, and peerless Adam hath been fashioned through the agency of His all-compelling Word, a Word which is the source, the wellspring, the repository, and the dawning-place of the intellect. From it all creation hath proceeded, and it is the channel of God's primal grace. TU.2#48

The truth that shineth bright and resplendent as the sun is this, that all have been created through the operation of the Divine Will and have proceeded from the same source, that all are from Him and that unto Him they shall all return. TU.2#51

For the subtleties of the realities of essences of existent beings and the wonders of the immaterial essences of Possible Being have been created by a word of His Command and one of His Verses and have come into being through one ray of the effulgences of the Sun of His Will. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:044, AvK1.039)

Bear thou witness ... that verily God, glorified be He, hath ever been, and will ever exist without anything to exist with Him. He verily hath created all things by virtue of His Will (Mashiyyah), and hath created the Will by Itself, out of nothing else.... All things are created and affected by It. Then behold naught in the heavens, the earth, and that which lieth between them, save as the effect thereof. They all, verily, are fashioned by the Will and have proceeded from It, while It is verily created by Itself and abideth beneath Its Own Essence. It hath proceeded from God, Its Lord, and unto God, Its Fashioner, It shall return... (The Bab, provisional translation, from the Panj Sha'n, GOH.177, GOH.191)

Immeasurably exalted is God above the claim of the philosophers that the cause of the originated beings is the Pre-existence of the Essence, seeking thereby to connect God with the contingent realm, and desiring to demonstrate the presence of the eternal intelligible forms (a'yani'th-thabitah), by virtue of the subtlety of the Indivisible, within His Essence... The statement of the philosophers that the cause of the created beings is the Essence is erroneous because of the lack of association [between cause and effect], the utter impossibility of change, and the precondition of the resemblance of the cause and the effect. The truth is that the Cause of beings is God's Handiwork, created by God Himself for Himself, and ordained to be the Cause of all His creation. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.190-191)

Verily God hath intended by these exalted words to sanctify His Essence utterly from any attribute of causation, refuting the views of those who have considered the Essence to be the Cause of all causes. For, verily, that Cause is His Handiwork, and that Handiwork is not preceded by any cause, to such an extent that the tongue of His favoured ones repeatedly addressed this absence of causation by the Essence. Had it been the Essence that was also the Cause, this would have required association and resemblance. Yet exalted and glorified then be God! He hath fashioned the Will from nothingness, through Itself, and ordained It to be the Cause of all that is other than It, with no descent of anything from His Essence unto the Will. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.192)

Know thou, of a certainty, that the Pre-existence of the Eternal Essence hath ever been Himself, and His Eternity is naught but His Essence. Nothing existeth besides Him, much less that it could be capable of explaining His Pre-existence.... Therefore, any praise made by is creation, and any description comprehended by His servants, is the outcome of their limited creation and the attributes that their minds may invent within the created realm.... Verily, the Source of the originated is the Primal Creation, which God hath created for Itself, by Itself; no other mention can ever be made besides It.... (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.196)




In sum the generality of the mystics imagine that existence is limited to two conditions: God [Haqq] and creation. They believe God to be the inner reality of all things and creation to be the outward appearance thereof. The people of Truth, however, recognize three realms of existence: God, Command (which is the Primal Will), and creation. The Primal Will, which is the realm of Command, is the inner reality of all things, and all beings are therefore the manifestations of the Divine Will, not the manifestations of the Divine Essence and Reality itself. "His are the realms of Command and creation." As to the station of the Godhead, it is exalted above and sanctified beyond the understanding of all created things, how much more above resolving itself into their realities! His Holiness the Bab (may my life be a sacrifice unto Him) hath stated that the meaning of the verse "The sea hath ever been the sea, and all contingent things its waves and forms" is fulfilled in the Primal Will, not in the Divine Essence. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:355)

A sprinkling from the unfathomed deep of His sovereign and all-pervasive Will hath, out of utter nothingness, called into being a creation which is infinite in its range and deathless in its duration. The wonders of His bounty can never cease, and the stream of His merciful grace can never be arrested. The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end. GWB#026 p061

Through His world-pervading Will He hath brought into being all created things.... All that is in heaven and all that is in the earth have come to exist at His bidding, and by His Will all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being. How can, therefore, the creature which the Word of God hath fashioned comprehend the nature of Him Who is the Ancient of Days? GWB#148 p318

The world of Command is the station of the Primal Will which is a universal reality that is resolved (munhall) into infinite forms. The sea of the Will is the world of Command. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:141; see also MKT3:356; A World Faith p. 22)

Happy is the man that hath apprehended the Purpose of God in whatever He hath revealed from the Heaven of His Will, that pervadeth all created things. GWB#159 p336

Thou doest whatsoever Thou willest by virtue of Thy sovereignty which encompasseth all created things, and ordainest that which Thou pleasest through the potency of Thy behest which pervadeth the entire creation. TB.233

...every object is deeply stirred by the vibrating influence emanating from Thine invincible Will.  Thou art nearer unto all things than all things. SWB.195

...all phenomena are realized through the divine bounty, and the explanation of true pantheistic statement and principle is that the phenomena of the universe find realization through the one power animating and dominating all things, and all things are but manifestations of its energy and bounty. PUP.286

The atoms of the elements are predisposed (programmed) to synthesis and composition according to the laws of nature; the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will operates and creates in this manner. The Primal Will operates in the element, in the primal atom, as attraction and repulsion; on the next higher level as organic life; then as animal-vegetative; and finally as spiritual life, which is destined to rise to the super-spiritual. What develops is not the physical substratum (base), which actually exists from the beginning in its different kinds, each of which then develops only within its own kind to higher perfection, but rather does the Cosmic spirit, the divine Primal Will, unfold within the creature just as the bud of a flower unfolds... (Fallsheer notes, p. 35)

The beginning of all things is the knowledge (irfan) of God, and the end of all things is strict observance of whatsoever hath been sent down from the empyrean of the Divine Will that pervadeth all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth. GWB#002 p005, Ruhi3a.L15

And this statement of the famous author who hath meant by "sea" the sea of the Will and not that of the Eternal Essence, testifieth unto this same truth: "The Sea is the Sea as it hath eternally existed, while those in the phenomenal world are naught but diverse waves and forms." They can be likened unto the very reflections and shadows appearing in mirrors that point toward the Sun, inasmuch as the level of the contingent world is naught but the realm of the mirrors; naught else is attainable. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:12, GOH.193)




The relation which exists between the Primal Will and the universe is as intimate and indissoluble as that which exits between fire and heat. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 5:10)




The first thing to emanate [sadir] from God is that universal reality which the ancient philosophers termed the "First Intellect" ['aql-i-avval] and which the people of Baha call the "Primal Will" [mashiyyat-i-avvaliyyih]. This emanation, with respect to its action in the world of God, is not limited by either time or place and has neither beginning nor end, for in relation to God the beginning and the end are one and the same. The pre-existence of God is both essential and temporal, while the origination of the contingent world is essential but not temporal, as we have already explained another day at table. Though the First Intellect is without beginning, this does not mean that it shares in the pre-existence of God, for in relation to the existence of God the existence of that universal Reality is mere nothingness--it cannot even be said to exist, let alone to partake of the pre-existence of God. SAQ#53.5-6 (was SAQ.203)

All things depend utterly on the Will of God and this Will depends utterly on God, the Unique One. God is unconnected to anything else; all else is His creation. His Will is likewise created by Him; all things radiate from the Primal Will which He created.... (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 2:8)




The Writings of the Bab, like those of Baha'u'llah, confirm that God is the divine Object of mystic devotion, while asserting that the realm of the unknowable Essence is above traditional conceptions of God. The traditional conception of God has always referred to the Primal Will, the Manifestations of God.... Therefore, a true mystic orientation must be accompanied by a clear consciousness of the limits of human experience and mystic attainment, recognizing that the summit of the human spiritual journey is the recognition of the Manifestation of God in each age. (N. Saiedi, in GOH.199)
