



The sprinkling of the Cloud of Unknowing (rashh-i-'ama') from Our rapture raineth down... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Rashh-i-'Ama, MA4.184, cf. Lambden trans.)

In the [Arabic] language 'Ama' denoteth a very light and subtle cloud, which is seen and then not seen. Thus by close investigation thou wilt see something, but it will not be seen by mere observation. For this reason, in the usage of the mystic knowers, 'Ama' signifieth the Universal reality without individuations, for individuations exist in the mode of simplicity (bisatah) and unity (wahidiyah). They are not differentiated from the Essence when it becomes individualized. They refer to this stage by the terms Ahadiyah [undifferentiated oneness] and 'Ama'. This is the degree of the 'Hidden Treasure' mentioned in the hadith, for attributes are individuations existing in the Essence but not differentiated from it. They are seen and then not seen. This, in brief, is what is meant by 'Ama'. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Asraru'l-Athar 4:394)

...all the Prophets [have] appeared from the Jabulqa of God's power and from the Jabulqa of His mercy. For by Jabulqa is meant none other than the treasure-houses of eternity (khaza'in al-baqa) in the all-highest heaven (Jabarut al-'ama'), the cities of the unseen (mada'in al-ghayb) in the supernal realm (Lahut al-ala'). GDM#049 p037

I yield Thee such thanks as can cause the Nightingale of Glory to pour forth its melody in the highest heaven (jabarutu'l-'ama'). PM#184 p330

God, verily, created Joseph and His brothers in sanctified words from a sprinkling above a name, from an existing droplet of the (heavenly) Water. And when We inhaled from Joseph a scent of the Greatest Remembrance, We, with the permission of God, clothed Him in the garment of Prophethood. (The Bab, Qayyumu'l-Asma XI, provisional translation, BSB3:2 pp.48-49)

We failed to entreat Thee on those darkest of nights in which the Dove of Command sang out upon Mount Sinai at the right hand of the Crimson Tree with the melodies of Thine Eternity (azaliyyih), and during those lengthy periods of gloom when the bird of light warbled behind the cloud of unknowing ('ama') with the melodies of Thy Perpetuity (sarmadiyyih). (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3:1 pp.4-67, MA4.267-268)

Praise be to God Who hath caused Oceans of Light to surge in the Divine Fiery Water; excited the Letters of Manifestation in the Incomparable Point of the Realm of Unknowing ('ama'); made the Hidden Mount revolve about the Firmament of Manifestation, the Concealed Self, the Focal Centre of Eternality... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3:1 p.28, MA4:265)

Hearken unto the melodies of the Crimson Leaf in the Paradise of the Realm of Unknowing (jannat al-'ama'), for He verily is the Light of the Sinaitic Temple who acteth, on behalf of God, as a Manifest Light unto the worlds. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Suriy-i-Kifaya, BSB3:1 p.17 fn.)

If there should surge upon me a sprinkling from the Ocean of (Divine) Authorization from the Sovereign of the Realm of Unknowing ('ama') and King of Glory I would expound that verse (Qur'an 3:87) with the accents of the spiritual ones... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3:1 p.36)

O People of the Realm of Unknowing ('ama')! Issue forth from your habitations and present yourselves in the sanctum of Light, the manifest Cloud of Unknowing ('ama'), the most great House of God, as hath been decreed, with the permission of God, the Exalted, Who beareth witness in the Tablet of the Heart (fu'ad). (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3:1 p.36)

Yahweh is is Who, from the Realm of Unknowing (ghayb al-'ama'), hath enabled me [Moses] to hearken unto His voice and be attentive to His Call, but I have neither seen Him nor gazed upon Him. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Jinab-i-Khalil, BSB4.1 p.39)

God was in 'ama', above it air and below it air. (The Bab, Hadith al-'Ama', provisional translation, Revisioning the Sacred, p. 56)

The Divine Breathing exhales what our shaikh designates as Nafas al-Rahman or Nafas Rahmani, the Sigh of existentiating Compassion; this Sigh gives rise to the entire 'subtile' mass of a primordial existentiation termed Cloud ('ama'). Which explains the following hadith: 'Someone asked the Prophet: Where was your Lord before creating His (visible) Creation? - He was in a Cloud; there was no space either above or below.'... (H. Corbin, Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 185. Tirmidhi, Ibn Maja, Ahmad, also cited in The Sufi Path of Knowledge, p. 397 n1)
