



...the inner reality of man is a demarcation line (khatt fasil) between the shadow and the light, a place where the two seas meet; it is the lowest point on the arc of descent, and therefore it is capable of gaining all the grades above. With education it can achieve all excellence; devoid of education it will stay on, at the lowest point of imperfection. SWAB#103 p130

...this human reality [his inner, ethereal reality - the human spirit] stands between the higher and the lower in man, between the world of the animal and the world of Divinity.... man is a reality which stands between light and darkness. From this standpoint his nature is threefold: animal, human and divine. The animal nature is darkness; the heavenly is light in light. PUP.465

The human spirit (ruh-i insani), in other words the rational soul (nafs-i natiqa), in the world of existence is the intermediary between things corporeal (disengaged - mujarradat) and delimited worldly things (mutahayyizat); that is to say, between realities spiritual and things corporeal. From one vantage point it possesses spiritual refinement while from the other it exhibits the crassness of carnality, animalistic traits and worldly characteristics. It is neither an absolute abstraction nor is it completely of the world but is the confluence of two seas (majma'al-bahrayn), and a barzakh between two realities (amrayn). If the spiritual aspect dominates it becometh lofty, luminous, merciful, tranquil (mutma'inna), contented (radiya) and approved (mardiyya). And if it is contaminated with contingent, worldly concerns, it becometh immersed in the ocean of darkness, reproachful (lawwama), commanding to evil (ammara) and residing in the nethermost regions of the world of existence. It is thus the case that the human spirit has two aspects. If the luminous aspect of the human intellect overcometh the world of nature, it will acquire the power of discovery which is the basis for wondrous insights, and become informed about the realities and the characteristics of things. From this brief explanation perceive the detailed significances. (Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha to Mirza Qabil of Abadih, in Star of the West (Persian section) 5:7 (13 Jul. 1914), provisional translation, BSB6:2-3, p.85) Alternative translation: the human spirit, in other words, the rational soul is the intermediary between the immaterial and the corporeal, that is to say, between things spiritual and things material. From one perspective, it is endowed with spiritual refinement; from another, it is characterized by the crass inclination towards animalistic appetites and worldly desires. It is neither completely spiritual nor completely worldly. (The Kingdom of Existence, p. 201; AB02513)

...the soul is an intermediary between the Supreme Concourse (or Spiritual World) and the lower concourse (or material world). It, i.e., the soul, hath two phases... TAB.611

How often has that same locus of the Universal Will (mazhar-i-mashiyyat-i-kulliya) opened up a gate of mystic knowledge (ma'rifa) in the barzakh. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 2:9, p. 44, in MacEoin, Rituals, p. 76, fn. 77)

It is He Who has let free the two bodies of flowing water: one palpable and sweet, and the other salt and bitter; yet has He made a barrier (barzakh) between them, a partition that is forbidden to be passed. Qur'an 25:53; see also 55:19-21, 23:100, 35:12
