



...the Paradise of Justice, the emerald land, the fathomless deep of Malakut allotted to those servants whom 'neither traffic nor merchandise beguile from the remembrance of God' (Qur'an 24:27) since they are the companions of the Light. They enter therein with the permission of God and find rest upon the carpet of the Almighty. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Kullu't-Ta'am, BSB3.1 p.32)

Thereupon, will the doors of the Kingdom (Malakut) be flung wide before thy face, and thou wilt behold what eyes have never beheld... ESW.140

The meaning of the Kingdom (malakut) in its primary sense and degree is the scene of His transcendent glory. In another sense it is the world of similitudes ('alam-i-mithal) which existeth between the Dominion on high (jabarut) and this mortal realm (nasut); whatever is in the heavens or on the earth hath its counterpart in that world. Whilst a thing remaineth hidden and concealed within the power of utterance it is said to be of the Dominion (jabarut), and this is the first stage of its substantiation (taqyid). Whenever it becometh manifest it is said to be of the Kingdom (malakut). The power and potency it deriveth from the first stage, it bestoweth upon whatever lieth below. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tablet to Varqa, in "Relativism: A Basis for Baha'i Metaphysics", MA1.018)

This present life is even as a swelling wave, or a mirage, or drifting shadows. Could ever a distorted image on the desert serve as refreshing waters?... Know that the Kingdom (Malakut) is the real world, and this nether plane is only its shadow stretching out. SWAB#150 p177-178

...the Kingdom [Malakut] is not a material location but is sanctified above time and place. It is a spiritual realm, a divine world, and it is the seat of the sovereignty of the almighty Lord. It is exalted above bodies and all that is corporeal, and it is freed and sanctified from the idle conjectures of men.... The mind, therefore, has no place, although it is connected with the brain. So it is with the Kingdom. Likewise, love has no place, but it is connected with the heart. And in the same way, the Kingdom has no place, but it is connected with the human reality. SAQ#67.1-6 (was SAQ.242)

Then is it (the soul) worthy and prepared for entry into the heaven of the Kingdom of God (Malakut) which is the paradise of the righteous and the refuge of the free whose faces have been illumined by the glad-tidings of God.... The soul, when it has entered this exalted heaven, this eternal paradise, has sought the dawn of this most luminous day, has entered this most pleasant, most pure place, has taken on perfections, acquired the illumination of the essence (jawahir) of names and attributes, has drunk from this "cup tempered at the camphor fountain (Qur'an 76:5)," has roamed throughout these lands, plunged the depths of these seas, and has been guided to this fire kindled and aflame on the Paran of love, confirms in its reality the profession of Divine Unity (kalimat at-tawhid) and establishes in its essence the sign of detachment (ayat at-tajrid). It attains to everlasting life and eternal living. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:093-094)

That world is the Kingdom of complete attraction and affinity. It is the Kingdom of the One Divine Spirit, the Kingdom of God. Therefore, the affinity and love manifest in this meeting, the divine susceptibilities witnessed here are not of this world but of the world of the Kingdom. PUP.004

Therefore, in this world, also, it is necessary to prepare and make ready for the world to come. Whatever is needed in the 'Alam-i Malakut man must prepare and make ready for here. PUP.225 (KHT2.170-171. Revised translation by K. Brown in Evolution and Baha'i Belief)

Know thou, verily, the Kingdom is a magnet of the divine world, and it attracteth the iron of pure hearts which are capable of the bounties of the Lord of Might. Blessed art thou, for thou hast turned unto the Lord of Heaven, thy heart hath depended upon the Light of Guidance, thou hast advanced toward the Center of Righteousness, and thy spirit is cheered by the abundance of the Supreme Concourse! TAB.227-228; TAB.602

O thou who hast been attracted by the Magnet of the Kingdom! Note that thy Lord hath manifested the Magnet of the souls and hearts in the Pole of the existing world, to which all the sacred hearts are attracted from the far distant lands and countries. The iron body is attractable although at long distances away; but the earthen one is not although in contact and very close. Therefore, thank thou God for being an attractable body, to be drawn to the Magnet of the Kingdom of God. TAB.328-329

Iron attracts iron, and as you approach the Kingdom of God, you will be attracted by the things of the Kingdom. Worldly people are not of the kind to be affected by the magnet of the divine. BSC#962 p.500

The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field: Which indeed is the least of all seeds: but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. Matthew 13:31ff

...the souls of the children of the Kingdom, after their separation from the body, ascend unto the realm of everlasting life. But if ye ask as to the place, know ye that the world of existence is a single world, although its stations are various and distinct... in the other world the human reality doth not assume a physical form, rather doth it take on a heavenly form, made up of elements of that heavenly realm.... Those souls who are pure and unsullied, upon the dissolution of their elemental frames, hasten away to the world of God, and that world is within this world. The people of this world, however, are unaware of that world, and are even as the mineral and the vegetable that know nothing of the world of the animal and the world of man. SWAB#163 p193-195




Without word It unfoldeth the inner mysteries, and without speech It revealeth the secrets of the divine sayings. It teacheth lamentation and moaning to the nightingales warbling upon the bough of remoteness and bereavement, instructeth them in the art of love's ways, and showeth them the secret of heart-surrender.... Upon the anemones of the garden of love It bestoweth the mysteries of truth, and within the breasts of lovers It entrusteth the symbols of the innermost subtleties. KI#064 p059-060

Shouldst thou soar in the holy realm of the spirit, thou wouldst recognize God manifest and exalted above all things, in such wise that thine eyes would behold none else but Him.... So lofty is this station that no testimony can bear it witness, neither evidence do justice to its truth. KI#100 p091

Wert thou to attain to but a dewdrop of the crystal waters of divine knowledge, thou wouldst readily realize that true life is not the life of the flesh but the life of the spirit. For the life of the flesh is common to both men and animals, whereas the life of the spirit is possessed only by the pure in heart who have quaffed from the ocean of faith and partaken of the fruit of certitude. This life knoweth no death, and this existence is crowned by immortality. Even as it hath been said: 'He who is a true believer liveth both in this world and in the world to come.' KI#128 p120

In these cities [the Word of God in each Dispensation] spiritual sustenance is bountifully provided, and incorruptible delights have been ordained. The food they bestow is the bread of heaven, and the Spirit they impart is God's imperishable blessing. Upon detached souls they bestow the gift of Unity, enrich the destitute, and offer the cup of knowledge unto them who wander in the wilderness of ignorance. KI#219 p200

...whosoever partook of the cup of love, obtained his portion of the ocean of eternal grace and of the showers of everlasting mercy, and entered into the life of faith... KI#120 p114

...whosoever partakes of this divine sustenance will gain eternal life. Thus, whoever partook of this grace and acquired a share of these perfections found eternal life, and whoever sought illumination from His ancient grace was delivered from the darkness of error and illumined by the light of guidance. SAQ#29.12 (was SAQ.121)

As to the fourth degree of spirit, it is the heavenly spirit, which is the spirit of faith and the outpouring grace of the All-Merciful. This spirit proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit, and through a power born of God it becomes the cause of everlasting life. It is that power which makes the earthly soul heavenly and the imperfect man perfect. It cleanses the impure, unlooses the tongue of the silent, sanctifies the bondslaves of passion and desire, and confers knowledge upon the ignorant. SAQ#36.6 (was SAQ.144-145)

...the life of the spirit is a heavenly existence which consists in receiving the grace of the Divine Spirit and being quickened through the breath of the Holy Spirit.... What is meant by "eternal life" is receiving the grace of the Holy Spirit, even as a flower partakes of the gifts and breezes of spring. SAQ#67.3-4 (was SAQ.241-242)

The spirit of man must acquire its bounties from the Kingdom of God in order that it may become the mirror and manifestation of lights and the dawning point of divine traces, because the human reality is like the soil.... only the reality of man can become the mirror wherein the lights of God are revealed. PUP.330

Burst thy cage asunder, and even as the phoenix of love soar into the firmament of holiness. Renounce thyself and, filled with the spirit of mercy, abide in the realm of celestial sanctity. PHW#38     "Regarding the statement in The Hidden Words, that man must renounce his own self, the meaning is that he must renounce his inordinate desires, his selfish purposes and the promptings of his human self, and seek out the holy breathings of the spirit, and follow the yearnings of his higher self, and immerse himself in the sea of sacrifice, with his heart fixed upon the beauty of the All-Glorious." SWAB#180 p207

By My life, O friend! Wert thou to taste the fruits of these verdant trees that spring from the soil of true understanding, once the effulgent light of His Essence hath been reflected in the Mirrors of His names and attributes, yearning would seize the reins of patience and restraint from out thy hand and stir thy spirit into commotion with the splendours of His light. It would draw thee from this abode of dust unto thy true and heavenly habitation in the midmost heart of mystic knowledge, and raise thee to a station wherein thou wilt soar in the air even as thou treadest upon the earth, and wilt walk upon the water even as thou movest over the land. CDB#2.05 (was SV.03-04)

And if, confirmed by the Creator, the lover escapeth the claws of the eagle of love, he will enter the Realm of Knowledge and come out of doubt into certitude, and turn from the darkness of wayward desire to the guiding light of the fear of God. His inner eye will open and he will privily converse with his Beloved; he will unlock the gates of truth and supplication and shut the doors of idle fancy. CDB#2.23 (was SV.11)

Whensoever the light of the revelation of the King of Oneness settleth upon the throne of the heart and soul, His radiance becometh visible in every limb and member. At that time, the mystery of the famed tradition gleameth out of the darkness: "A servant is drawn unto Me in prayer until I answer him, and when I have answered him, I become the ear wherewith he heareth..." For thus the Master of the house hath appeared within His home, and all the pillars of the dwelling are ashine with His light. CDB#2.44 (was SV.22)

Those souls that, in this day, enter the divine kingdom and attain everlasting life, although materially dwelling on earth, yet in reality soar in the realm of heaven. Their bodies may linger on earth but their spirits travel in the immensity of space. For as thoughts widen and become illumined, they acquire the power of flight and transport man to the kingdom of God. SWAB#173 p202

...whoever partook of this grace and acquired a share of these perfections found eternal life, and whoever sought illumination from His ancient grace was delivered from the darkness of error and illumined by the light of guidance. SAQ#29.11 (was SAQ.121)

...if the human spirit be rejoiced and attracted to the Kingdom, if the inner eye be opened and the spiritual ear attuned, and if spiritual feelings come to predominate, the immortality of the spirit will be seen as clearly as the sun, and heavenly tidings and intimations will encompass that spirit. SAQ#60.7 (was SAQ.226)

...the life of the spirit expresses the existence of the Kingdom, which consists in receiving the Spirit of God and becoming vivified by the breath of the Holy Spirit.... The meaning of eternal life is the gift of the Holy Spirit, as the flower receives the gift of the season, the air, and the breezes of spring.... the individual realities of mankind, when spiritually born, are emanations from the reality of Divinity, just as the flame, heat and light of the sun are the effulgence of the sun and not a part of the sun itself. Therefore, a spirit has emanated from the reality of Divinity, and its effulgences have become visible in human entities or realities. PUP.059

As to the difference between inspiration and imagination: inspiration is in conformity with the Divine Texts, but imaginations do not conform therewith. A real, spiritual connection between the True One and the servant is a luminous bounty which causeth an ecstatic (or divine) flame, passion and attraction. When this condition is secured (or realized) such an ecstasy and happiness become manifest in the heart that man doth fly away (with joy) and uttereth melody and song. Just as the soul bringeth the body in motion, so that spiritual bounty and real connection likewise moveth (or cheereth) the human soul. TAB.195

Spiritual creation is rebirth, it is supreme guidance, eternal life, universal qualities, the acquirement of the all-inclusive divine perfections, and progress in all the stages of human endowments. This latter creation is realized as a result of the Manifestations of God in the world of contingency. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT2:139, in A World Faith)

...a heavenly soul who is conscious of the Divine World: whose discerning eye is open: who is detached from the world of nature, and has attained to spiritual power is cognizant of the Divine World and those of the spirits. SW v11#19 p315-316 (Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha to J. Isbrucker)

The first entrance into light and into belief is extremely difficult. The spiritual birth is troublesome and painful in the same degree as is the physical birth. In reality, the two births are alike. (Pilgrim notes of George Winterburn, Table Talks with Abdul-Baha in February 1904, pp. 6-8)

The Spirit will come to you with increasing force, for your being must become as a Temple in which the Truth of God can dwell.... Your faith comes like rain; the first drops are far between, but soon it will pour in torrents....The knowledge of God rises in the heart like the sun; it mounts, mounts, always casting an immortal Light. You must be re-born by the Spirit. A child in the womb has eyes and ears, but only learns their use when it is born. A man cannot comprehend the Spirit before he has put aside earthly things. ... The Spirit resembles a rivulet when the earth fills the soul. Put away the terrestrial, and the Mighty Torrent of Living Water will rush through your freed body. BC#181 (Words of Abdu'l-Baha to Miss Barney, Oct. 19th to 24th, 1900)

How unspeakably glorious are the signs, the tokens, the revelations, and splendors which He, Who is the King of Names and Attributes, hath destined for that City! The attainment unto this City quencheth thirst without water, and kindleth the love of God without fire. Within every blade of grass are enshrined the mysteries of an inscrutable Wisdom, and upon every rose-bush a myriad nightingales pour out, in blissful rapture, their melody. Its wondrous tulips unfold the mystery of the undying Fire in the Burning Bush, and its sweet savors of holiness breathe the perfume of the Messianic Spirit. It bestoweth wealth without gold, and conferreth immortality without death. In each one of its leaves ineffable delights are treasured, and within every chamber unnumbered mysteries lie hidden. KI#217 p198, GWB#125 p269

Know thou, verily, man before reaching (spiritual) maturity passes his days and only apprehends trivial things which are clear on account of their exoteric indications, but when he attains full development, then he grasps the reality of things and their esoteric facts. Every day after maturity is equivalent to one year before it, on account of man's perception, understanding, apprehension and discoveries. TAB.166

The soul which has one degree of love is clearly in its centre, God, since one degree is sufficient for it to abide in him through grace. If it has two degrees it enters into another more interior centre with God and so on. If it reaches the last degree, the love of God will be able to wound the soul at its deepest point; that is, it is brought to the state where it appears to be God himself. In this state the soul is like a crystal, limpid and pure. It is so enlightened it appears to be light itself. (St. John of the Cross, The Living Flame of Love, St. 1)




...the kingdom of the Father is spread out upon the earth, and people do not see it.... (Gospel of Thomas)

We will have experience of God's spirit through His Prophets in the next world, but God is too great for us to know without this intermediary. The Prophets know God, but how is more than our human minds can grasp. We believe we may attain in the next world to seeing the Prophets. There is certainly a future life. Heaven and hell are conditions within our inner beings. LG#1767, HE.049-050 (14 Nov. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...the Kingdom is not a material location but is sanctified above time and place. It is a spiritual realm, a divine world, and it is the seat of the sovereignty of the almighty Lord. It is exalted above bodies and all that is corporeal, and it is freed and sanctified from the idle conjectures of men. For to be confined to place is a characteristic of bodies and not of spirits: Time and place encompass the body, not the mind and the soul. ...the spirit has no place: It is a placeless reality, and for the spirit earth and heaven are the same, since it makes discoveries in both. SAQ#67.1-2 (was SAQ.241)

As to the worlds whereunto Christ ... referred: they are spiritual, divine, heavenly, single, unlocated - the imperfect mind cannot comprehend them, nor can the shining souls know them. But, verily, the sight of the people of the Supreme Concourse apprehend them. BSC#811 p.445 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The difference and distinction will naturally become realized between all men after their departure from this mortal world. But this (distinction) is not in respect to place, but it is in respect to the soul and conscience. For the Kingdom of God is sanctified (or free) from time and place; it is another world and another universe. But the holy souls are promised the gift of intercession. And know thou for a certainty, that in the divine worlds, the spiritual beloved ones (believers) will recognize each other, and will seek union (with each other), but a spiritual union. Likewise, a love that one may have entertained for any one will not be forgotten in the world of the Kingdom. Likewise, thou wilt not forget (there) the life that thou hast had in the material world. TAB.205, Ruhi1.3.15

The mind, therefore, has no place, although it is connected with the brain. So it is with the Kingdom. Likewise, love has no place, but it is connected with the heart. SAQ#67.6 (was SAQ.242)

Consider thy state when asleep. Verily, I say, this phenomenon is the most mysterious of the signs of God amongst men, were they to ponder it in their hearts.... the world in which thou livest is different and apart from that which thou hast experienced in thy dream. The latter world hath neither beginning nor end. It would be true if thou wert to contend that this same world is, as decreed by the All-Glorious and Almighty God, within thy proper self and is wrapped up within thee. It would equally be true to maintain that thy spirit, having transcended the limitations of sleep and having stripped itself of all earthly attachment, hath, by the act of God, been made to traverse a realm which lieth hidden in the innermost reality of this world. GWB#079 p152, TB.187-188

...the souls of the children of the Kingdom, after their separation from the body, ascend unto the realm of everlasting life. But if ye ask as to the place, know ye that the world of existence is a single world, although its stations are various and distinct... in the other world the human reality doth not assume a physical form, rather doth it take on a heavenly form, made up of elements of that heavenly realm.... Those souls who are pure and unsullied, upon the dissolution of their elemental frames, hasten away to the world of God, and that world is within this world. The people of this world, however, are unaware of that world, and are even as the mineral and the vegetable that know nothing of the world of the animal and the world of man. SWAB#163 p193-195

Though the worlds of God are circulating around this world, yet for each soul in any of these worlds (there is) a fixed and pre-ordained command. BSC#355 p.202 (Baha'u'llah)

In the next world, man will find himself freed from many of the disabilities under which he now suffers. Those who have passed on through death, have a sphere of their own. It is not removed from ours; their work, the work of the Kingdom, is ours; but it is sanctified from what we call 'time and place'.... Those who have ascended have different attributes from those who are still on earth, yet there is no real separation. In prayer there is a mingling of station, a mingling of condition. Pray for them as they pray for you! AL.096, SW v04#19 p231

Although the spirit is hidden from view, still its commandments shine out like rays of light upon the world of the human body. In the same way, although the Kingdom of heaven is hidden from the sight of this unwitting people, still, to him who seeth with the inner eye, it is plain as day. Wherefore dwell thou ever in the Kingdom, and be thou oblivious of this world below. Be thou so wholly absorbed in the emanations of the spirit that nothing in the world of man will distract thee. SWAB#161 p192

Those souls that, in this day, enter the divine kingdom and attain everlasting life, although materially dwelling on earth, yet in reality soar in the realm of heaven. Their bodies may linger on earth but their spirits travel in the immensity of space. For as thoughts widen and become illumined, they acquire the power of flight and transport man to the kingdom of God. SWAB#173 p202

Know ye that by "the world" is meant your unawareness of Him Who is your Maker, and your absorption in aught else but Him. The "life to come," on the other hand, signifieth the things that give you a safe approach to God, the All-Glorious, the Incomparable. Whatsoever deterreth you, in this Day, from loving God is nothing but the world. GWB#128 p276

As to what thou hast asked concerning other worlds: Verily God hath ever possessed worlds without end; but each of them doth circle round this world... (the Bab, provisional translation, AvK1.119)

...the denizens of this earth are completely unaware of the world of the Kingdom and deny the existence thereof. They ask, for example: 'Where is the Kingdom? Where is the Lord of the Kingdom?' These people are even as the mineral and the vegetable, who know nothing whatever of the animal and the human realm; they see it not; they find it not. Yet the mineral and vegetable, the animal and man, are all living here together in this world of existence. SWAB#163 p194

The deniers ask in their disbelief: "Where is that world? For whatsoever hath no actual material existence is sheer imagination." But the truth is that the world of existence is a single world, although its stations are manifold in accordance with the manifold realities of things. For instance, the world of mineral, plant, and animal existence is the same world. Despite this, the animal world in relation to the world of the vegetable is a spiritual reality and another world and abode. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.202)

Although all the worlds of God have ever circled around this world, and will always continue to circle around it, still, in every world for every soul a destiny is determined and appointed. Therefore, think not that what hath been revealed in the Book of God is idle talk. Far exalted is God from such an imagining! I swear by the Daystar of the heaven of divine knowledge, that, in all truth, matchless paradises ever have been and shall be theirs. Although in this first life the meaning of Paradise is His good-pleasure and entrance into His Cause, after the ascension of the believers from this world, they shall gain admittance into matchless paradises and shall enjoy inestimable delights. Those paradises are the outcome of the deeds which they have performed in this world. AvK1.279-280 (Baha'u'llah, Lawh-i-Yusuf); PA00367

As to the ascent of man from the contingent world to the placeless realm ... although that world is not separate from this world, nevertheless it is truly and spiritually separate, in the same way that the human world is truly and spiritually separate from the mineral world, while that world is unaware of the existence of the human world. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.281)




...the tests and trials of God take place in this world, not in the world of the Kingdom. SWAB#163 p194
