



He should not wish for others that which he doth not wish for himself, nor promise that which he doth not fulfill. KI#214 p194, GWB#125 p266

O son of man! If thine eyes be turned towards mercy, forsake the things that profit thee, and cleave unto that which will profit mankind. And if thine eyes be turned towards justice, choose thou for thy neighbor that which thou choosest for thyself. ESW.029-030, TB.064

The children of men are all brothers, and the prerequisites of brotherhood are manifold. Among them is that one should wish for one's brother that which one wisheth for oneself. TU.2#39

We have created you from one tree and have caused you to be as the leaves and fruit of the same tree, that haply ye may become a source of comfort to one another. Regard ye not others save as ye regard your own selves, that no feeling of aversion may prevail amongst you so as to shut you out from Him Whom God shall make manifest on the Day of Resurrection. It behooveth you all to be one indivisible people; thus should ye return unto Him Whom God shall make manifest. SWB.129

Forget your own selves, and turn your eyes towards your neighbor. Bend your energies to whatever may foster the education of men. GWB#005 p009

Lay not on any soul a load which ye would not wish to be laid upon you, and desire not for any one the things ye would not desire for yourselves. This is My best counsel unto you, did ye but observe it. GWB#066 p128

Fear the sighs and tears of this wronged One, and lay not excessive burdens on your peoples. Do not rob them to rear palaces for yourselves; nay rather choose for them that which ye choose for yourselves. GWB#119 p253

It is Our wish and desire that every one of you may become a source of all goodness unto men, and an example of uprightness to mankind. Beware lest ye prefer yourselves above your neighbors. GWB#146 p315

Wish not for others what ye wish not for yourselves; fear God, and be not of the prideful. KA#148

He must not wish for anyone that which he doth not wish for himself, nor speak that which he would not bear to hear spoken by another, nor yet desire for any soul that which he would not have desired for himself. GDM#084 p061

Blessed is he who preferreth his brother before himself. TB.071, Ruhi3.L9

Friends of God! Set forth the example of Justice! Justice is a universal quality. From the highest to the lowest, justice should be sacred; from the sovereign to the merchant, the minister of state to the artisan, all must be just. Be just, respect the rights of each man -- "do unto others what you would have them do unto you." A workman who commits an injustice is as much to blame as a tyrant. Each one of us can choose between justice and injustice. I hope that you will be just in your relations with others, that you will never harm your fellows, that you will respect the rights of all men and, above all, consider the rights of other before your own. SW v07#15 p138-139 (Abdu'l-Baha)

Ascribe not to any soul that which thou wouldst not have ascribed to thee, and say not that which thou doest not. This is My command unto thee, do thou observe it. AHW#29

The teaching that we should treat others as we ourselves would wish to be treated, an ethic variously repeated in all the great religions, lends force to this latter observation in two particular respects: it sums up the moral attitude, the peace-inducing aspect, extending through these religions irrespective of their place or time of origin; it also signifies an aspect of unity which is their essential virtue, a virtue mankind in its disjointed view of history has failed to appreciate. ("The Promise of World Peace", Oct. 1985)

Jesus said to him, 'You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.' This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it: 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' On these two commandments hang all the Law and the prophets. Matthew 22:37-40

Never do to others what would pain thyself. Mahabharata 5:1517 ["This is the sum of duty; do naught onto others what you would not have them do unto you."]

All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye so to them; for this is the law and the prophets. Matthew 7:12

Hurt not others in ways that you yourself would find hurtful. Udana-Varga 5:18

No one of you shall become a true believer until he desires for his brother that which he desires for himself. Al-Bukhari and Muslim (dozens more examples here)

That nature only is good when it shall not do unto another whatever is not good for its own self. Dadistan-i-Dinik 94:5

Love your neighbor as yourself: I am the Lord. Leviticus 19:18; 19:34; Luke 10:27; Matthew 5:43, 19:19, 22:39; Mark 12:31; John 13:34; Romans 13:9; Galatians 5:14; James 2:8

What is hateful to you, do not do to your fellowman. This is the entire Law; all the rest is commentary. Talmud, Shabbat 3id




Be thou for God and for His creatures even as God hath been for God Himself and for His creatures. Just as God hath verily created thee out of nothing, in like manner must thou adore Him in utter devotion, for the sake of His Countenance, without desire for reward or fear of punishment. Act likewise in all conditions and with regard to all matters and phenomena. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.302)
