



They scoffed at the verses, a single letter of which is greater than the creation of heavens and earth, and which quickeneth the dead of the valley of self and desire with the spirit of faith... KI#231 p209

Adam is the cause of man's material life, but the reality of Christ, that is, the Word of God, is the cause of his spiritual life. It is a life-giving spirit, meaning that all the imperfections imposed by the material life of man are, through the instruction and guidance of that Essence of detachment, transmuted into human perfections. Therefore, Christ was a life-giving spirit and the cause of the spiritual life of all mankind. SAQ#29.7 (was SAQ.119-120)

Likewise, in the spiritual realm of intelligence and idealism there must be a center of illumination, and that center is the everlasting, ever-shining Sun, the Word of God. Its lights are the lights of reality which have shone upon humanity, illumining the realm of thought and morals, conferring the bounties of the divine world upon man.... This Sun of Reality, this Center of effulgences, is the Prophet or Manifestation of God. PUP.094, Ruhi5.3.13

I implore Thee, by this very word that hath shone forth above the horizon of Thy Will, to enable me to drink deep of the living waters through which Thou hast vivified the hearts of Thy chosen ones... PM#004 p006

Praise be to the all-perceiving, the ever abiding Lord Who, from a dewdrop out of the ocean of His grace, hath reared the firmament of existence, adorned it with the stars of knowledge, and admitted man into the lofty court of insight and understanding. This dewdrop, which is the Primal Word of God, is at times called the Water of Life, inasmuch as it quickeneth with the waters of knowledge them that have perished in the wilderness of ignorance. Again it is called the Primal Light, a light born of the Sun of divine knowledge, though whose effulgence the first stirrings of existence were made plain and manifest. Such manifestations are the expressions of the grace of Him Who is the Peerless, the All-Wise....         It is clear and evident, therefore, that the first bestowal of God is the Word, and its discoverer and recipient is the power of understanding. This Word is the foremost instructor in the school of existence and the revealer of Him Who is the Almighty. All that is seen is visible only through the light of its wisdom. All that is manifest is but a token of its knowledge. All names are but its name, and the beginning and end of all matters must needs depend upon it. TU.1#01-02, Ruhi5.3.13 (2nd paragraph)

The Word is the fire of God which, glowing in the hearts of people, burns away all things that are not of God. The minds of the lovers are ever aflame with this fire. It is the essence of water, which has manifested itself in the form of fire. Outwardly it is the burning fire, while inwardly it is the calm light. This is the Water that giveth Life to all things. BSC#142 p.157, MA4.024 (Baha'u'llah)

The whole world hath been set ablaze by the Word of thy Lord, the All-Glorious, a Word softer than the morning breeze. It hath been manifested in the form of the human temple, and through it God hath quickened the souls of the sincere among His servants. In its inner essence, this Word is the living water by which God hath purified the hearts of such as have turned unto Him and forgotten every other mention, and through which He draweth them nigh unto the seat of His mighty Name. SLH.2#001

The Word of God may be likened unto a sapling, whose roots have been implanted in the hearts of men. It is incumbent upon you to foster its growth through the living waters of wisdom, of sanctified and holy words, so that its root may become firmly fixed and its branches may spread out as high as the heavens and beyond. GWB#043 p097, TB.093-094, Ruhi2.1.4         Cf. Qur'an 14:24: "See thou not how God sets forth a parable? A goodly Word [is] like a goodly tree, whose root is firmly fixed, and its branches (reach) to the heavens."

...the still greater task of converting satanic strength into heavenly power is one that We have been empowered to accomplish.... The Word of God, alone, can claim the distinction of being endowed with the capacity required for so great and far-reaching a change. GWB#099 p200

I beg of Thee, O my God, by Thy most exalted Word which thou hast ordained as the Divine Elixir unto all who are in Thy realm, the Elixir through whose potency the crude metal of human life hath been transmuted into purest gold... PM#038 p054

I testify that if Thy servants were to turn towards Thee with the eyes Thou didst create in them and with the ears wherewith Thou didst endow them, they would all be carried away by a single word sent down from the right hand of the throne of Thy majesty. That word alone would suffice to brighten their faces, and to assure their hearts, and to cause their souls to soar up to the atmosphere of Thy great glory, and to ascend into the heaven of Thy sovereignty. PM#113 p190-191

The Word is the master key for the whole world, inasmuch as through its potency the doors of the hearts of men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked. No sooner had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour shone forth upon the mirror of love than the blessed word 'I am the Best-Beloved' was reflected therein. TB.173, Ruhi6.1.23

When the Word of God is revealed unto all created things whoso then giveth ear and heedeth the Call is, indeed, reckoned among the most distinguished souls, though he be a carrier of ashes. TB.186

...do thou show a steadfast and firm footing in this station, engage in guiding the people and call them unto the Kingdom; then wilt thou find how the divine magnet - the power of the Word of God - will attract the hearts and bestow ecstasy and enthusiasm upon souls! TAB.358

Those souls who have the capacity and ability to receive the outpourings of the Kingdom and the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, they become attracted through one word... No sooner is the oil touched by the fire than it is ignited, but the heat of the fire will not make any effect upon the black stone. BWF.364-365 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

The Word of God is the storehouse of all power and all wisdom. It awakens within us that brilliant intuition that makes us independent of all tuition, and endows us with an all-embracing power of spiritual understanding. When man is associated with this transcendental Power emanating from the Word of God, the tree of existence becomes so well-rooted in the soil of assurance that it laughs at the violent hurricanes of skepticism which attempts its eradication; for this association of the part with the whole and the union of the particular with the universal makes man all in all. SW v06#16 p.122 ('Abdu'l-Baha)

Say: We have caused the rivers of Divine utterance to proceed out of Our throne, that the tender herbs of wisdom and understanding may spring forth from the soil of your hearts. GWB#018 p043, Ruhi5.3.13

Man is like unto a tree. If he be adorned with fruit, he hath been and will ever bee worthy of praise and commendation. Otherwise a fruitless tree is but fit for fire. The fruits of the human tree are exquisite, highly desired and dearly cherished. Among them are upright character, virtuous deeds and a goodly utterance... The Water for these trees is the living water of the sacred Words uttered by the Beloved of the world. In one instant are such trees planted and in the next their branches shall, through the outpourings of the showers of divine mercy, have reached the skies. TB.257

I render Thee thanks ... in the name of all them that are dear to Thee, for that Thou hast caused them to be born again, by reason of the living waters which have flowed down out of the mouth of Thy will. PM#033 p042

God, the Eternal Truth, is My witness that streams of fresh and soft-flowing waters have gushed from the rocks through the sweetness of the words uttered by your Lord, the Unconstrained; and still ye slumber. KA#054; GWB#072 p139

First must the stream bed be cleansed, then may the sweet river waters be led into it.... This is why, in Holy Scriptures, the counsels of heaven are likened unto water, even as the Qur'an saith: 'And pure water send We down from Heaven,' and the Gospel: 'Except a man be baptized of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God.' Thus it is clear that the Teachings which come from God are heavenly outpourings of grace; they are rain-showers of divine mercy, and they cleanse the human heart. SWAB#129 p146

A dewdrop out of this ocean would, if shed upon all that are in the heavens and on the earth, suffice to enrich them with the bounty of God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. GWB#129 p279

The seas of Divine wisdom and Divine utterance have risen under the breath of the breeze of the All-Merciful. Hasten to drink your fill, O men of understanding! KA#025

...so fierce is the blaze of the Bush of love, burning in the Sinai of the heart, that the streaming waters of holy utterance can never quench its flame. KI#065 p060

Thus have We established for thee, through the waters of Our wisdom and utterance, the foundations of thy belief. GWB#018 p046

Meditate on this, that thou mayest drink in the waters of everlasting life which flow through the words of the Lord of all mankind, and mayest testify that the one true God hath ever been immeasurably exalted above His creatures. GWB#160 p338

I was as one dead, Thou didst quicken me with the water of life. I was withered, Thou didst revive me with the heavenly stream of Thine utterance which hath flowed forth from the Pen of the All-Merciful. PM#173 p264

This servant appealeth to every diligent and enterprising soul to exert his utmost endeavour and arise to rehabilitate the conditions in all regions and to quicken the dead with the living waters of wisdom and utterance, by virtue of the love he cherisheth for God, the One, the Peerless, the Almighty, the Beneficent. TB.172, Ruhi5.3.12

...every word sent down from the heavens of revelation upon the Prophets and Messengers hath been filled with the sacred waters of meaning, explanation, wisdom and exposition. Blessed are they that drink thereof. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, commentary on the Surih of the Sun, in BSB4:3-4 p.14)

Will ye be content with that which is like unto the vapor in a plain, and be willing to forgo the Ocean Whose waters refresh, by virtue of the Will of God, the souls of men? GWB#135 p293

...in Holy Scriptures, the counsels of heaven are likened to water ... the Teachings which come from God are heavenly outpourings of grace; they are rain-showers of divine mercy, and they cleanse the human heart. SWAB#129 p146

O Thou ... the words of Whose mouth are as the waters of life unto all who are in heaven and on earth! PM#010 p013

The Day-Star of utterance, shining resplendent from the dayspring of divine Revelation, hath so illumined the Scrolls and Tablets that the kingdom of utterance and the exalted dominion of understanding vibrate with joy and ecstasy and shine forth with the splendour of His light, yet the generality of mankind comprehend not. TB.199, Ruhi5.3.13

Through the breaths of Thine utterance the heaven of understanding hath been adorned, and by the effusions of Thy pen every moldering bone hath been quickened. PM#032 p041, Ruhi5.3.13




...the Word of God - exalted be His glory - is higher and far superior to that which the senses can perceive, for it is sanctified from any property or substance. It transcendeth the limitations of known elements and is exalted above all the essential and recognized substances. It became manifest without any syllable or sound and is none but the Command of God which pervadeth all created things. It hath never been withheld from the world of being. It is God's all-pervasive grace (fayd), from which all grace doth emanate. It is an entity far removed above all that hath been and shall be. TB.140-141, Ruhi6.1.21

The Tongue of God testified to the truth of My words, through Mine own Word that speaketh the truth, and embraceth and comprehendeth all things. GWB#121 p257

The Word of God is the king of words and its pervasive influence is incalculable. It hath ever dominated and will continue to dominate the realm of being.... It is an ocean inexhaustible in riches, comprehending all things. Every thing which can be perceived is but an emanation (zahir) therefrom. TB.173, Ruhi6.1.23

We have indeed, through the potency of the Most Sublime Word, encompassed the whole world, and the time is approaching when God will have subdued the hearts of all that dwell on earth. TB.264

By the righteousness of God, this Book hath, through the potency of the sovereign Truth, pervaded the earth and the heaven with the mighty Word of God concerning Him Who is the supreme Testimony... SWB.059-060

Verily, Thy power hath enveloped all things, Thy dominion, Thy glory and Thy sovereignty have become manifest as the manifestation of the sun in mid-day; Thy Word hath penetrated the reality of the contingent beings... TAB.570

...know thou that the greatest spiritual and divine 'chaplet' is the Word of God and the Sun of Truth which penetrateth the reality of the created things and attracteth the entire soul of man in the world of existence and shineth forth unto all horizons (or regions). TAB.612

...the power of the Word of God is penetrative and the existence of the divine Kingdom is uninterrupted. TAB.691

...all receive the heavenly bounties of the Word of God; none are specialized as favorites; all are under its protection and universal effulgence. PUP.079




...the power of the Word of God is effective, both in the spirit and the body, and the influence of the spirit of God is predominant over the material as well as the essential and spiritual. TAB.608




...verily the Cause is great and great, and the penetration of the Word of God in the temple (body) of all regions is similar to the pervasion of the soul in a sound body. TAB.164

...the Word of God is like unto the Spirit, and the contingent world like unto the embryo in the womb of the mother.  Through the power of the Spirit such various changes and metamorphoses become apparent, transforming them from one form to another. TAB.497




Leprosy may be interpreted as any veil that interveneth between man and the recognition of the Lord, his God.... We bear witness that through the power of the Word of God every leper was cleansed, every sickness was healed, every human infirmity was banished.... GWB#036 p086
