



We observe that every lower thing is incapable of comprehending the reality of that which is higher. Thus, no matter how far they may evolve, the stone, the earth, and the tree can never comprehend the reality of man.... How then can man, a mere creature, comprehend the reality of the sanctified Essence of the Creator? SAQ#37.4 (was SAQ.147)

It is a self-evident fact that phenomenal existence can never grasp nor comprehend the ancient and essential Reality. PUP.113

When thou dost carefully consider this matter, thou wilt see that a lower plane can never comprehend a higher.... although these beings all coexist in the contingent world, in each case the difference in their station precludeth their grasp of the whole; for no lower degree can understand a higher, such comprehension being impossible. SWAB#021 p046-047

...the mineral life occupieth its own plane, but a mineral entity is without any awareness at all of the vegetable kingdom, and indeed, with its inner tongue denieth that there is any such kingdom. In the same way, a vegetable entity knoweth nothing of the animal world, remaining completely heedless and ignorant thereof, for the stage of the animal is higher than that of the vegetable... SWAB#163 p193-194

...the mineral world understandeth neither the nature nor the perfections of the vegetable world; the vegetable world understandeth not the nature of the animal world, neither the animal world the nature of the reality of man that discovereth and embraceth all things. Forel.10

...differentiation of stages in the contingent plane is an obstacle to understanding. Minerals, plants and animals are bereft of the mental faculties of man that discover the realities of all things, but man himself comprehendeth all the stages beneath him. Every superior stage comprehendeth that which is inferior and discovereth the reality thereof, but the inferior one is unaware of that which is superior and cannot comprehend it. Forel.15

...differences of degree in the world of creation are a barrier to knowledge. For example, as this mineral belongs to the mineral kingdom, however far it may rise, it can never comprehend the power of growth. The plants and trees, however far they may progress, cannot imagine the powers of sight or of the other senses. The animal cannot imagine the human degree, that is, the spiritual powers. Thus, differences of degree are a barrier to knowledge: The inferior degree cannot comprehend the superior. SAQ#59.6 (was SAQ.221)

When we view the world of creation, we discover differences in degree which make it impossible for the lower to comprehend the higher.... Difference in degree is an obstacle to this comprehension. A lower degree cannot comprehend the higher.... Degree is the barrier and limitation. PUP.113-114

...when we study the creational world, we see that the difference of degree is a barrier to such knowing.  An inferior degree can never comprehend a higher degree or kingdom... The limitation of an inferior degree is the barrier to comprehension. PUP.172-173

We are created; likewise, this plant is existent, this mineral exists, this wood exists. But can this flooring here comprehend those who are standing upon it? It cannot, because sight and hearing are properties or faculties belonging to a higher kingdom than the mineral. The difference between these two kingdoms, the vast difference between the mineral kingdom and the human kingdom, is a hindrance to comprehension. PUP.422-423

All superior kingdoms are incomprehensible to the inferior; how therefore could it be possible that the creature, man, should understand the almighty Creator of all? PT#05:9 p024

...one form of existence is incapable of comprehending a form superior to itself. This flower may be unconscious of such a being as man, but the fact of its ignorance does not prevent the existence of humanity. PT#29:27 p093

The superior kingdom understands the inferior, but that the inferior comprehends it not is no proof of the non-existence of the superior kingdom. ADP.117

Although the mineral, vegetable, animal and man all have actual being, yet the mineral has no knowledge of the vegetable.... Although the mineral, vegetable, animal and man himself are actual beings, the difference between their kingdoms prevents members of the lower degree from comprehending the essence and nature of those of the superior degree. AL.022-023

If one looks with the eye of reality it will be found that an inferior being can never perceive the superior even though it may progress to the supreme apex of its existence. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:098)

For were they to reach the ultimate object of their quest for God and their attainment unto Him, they would have but reached that abode which hath been raised up within their own hearts. How then could they ever hope to ascend unto such realms as have not been ordained for them or created for their station? Nay, though they journey from everlasting to everlasting, they will never attain unto Him Who is the midmost Heart of existence and the Axis of the entire creation, He on Whose right hand flow the seas of grandeur, on Whose left stream the rivers of might, and Whose court none can ever hope to reach, how much less His very abode! For He dwelleth in the ark of fire, speedeth, in the sphere of fire, through the ocean of fire, and moveth within the atmosphere of fire. How can he who hath been fashioned of contrary elements ever enter or even approach this fire? GDM#110 p074-075

Every being lower in the scale of creation is incapable of comprehending the stages transcending its own. The mineral is incapable of understanding the nature of the plant kingdom. The plant cannot comprehend the reality of the animal kingdom, and the animal cannot penetrate the reality of the world of man. By the same reasoning, when we consider the human kingdom, we realize that man is incapable of perceiving the world of the soul, which an immaterial reality. He has no knowledge thereof save through rational evidences. But when we enter the world of the spirit, we will see that the soul unquestionably exists, and that it is a luminous and eternal reality. AvK1.193, KHT2.185ff; PC00607

If in this uterine world he remaineth unconscious and unaware of that all-embracing spiritual world, one should not be astonished or perplexed, because every inferior world is unaware of the reality of the worlds above it, just as the embryo in the womb is unaware of this world. When it is transferred to this loftier condition, however, it will become aware and perceptive, although before transferal such understanding and perception was impossible. AvK1.202; PC00508

As to the ascent of man from the contingent world to the placeless realm ... although that world is not separate from this world, nevertheless it is truly and spiritually separate, in the same way that the human world is truly and spiritually separate from the mineral world, while that world is unaware of the existence of the human world. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.281)

When the soul of man ascendeth to the world of heavenly bestowals it will certainly lift off the veil from this material world, for every higher state comprehendeth the states inferior to itself. An inferior state, however, is incapable of grasping the reality of whatever transcendeth its station. Man, for instance, hath proceeded from the mineral kingdom to the human kingdom, and in the human condition he unveileth the mysteries of the mineral world. He is similarly informed of the plant kingdom, and understandeth the world of the animal. He comprehendeth all these states. But the mineral world is utterly uninformed of the sanctified world of man. Charitable deeds and good works performed on behalf of departed souls will certainly have a beneficial influence. AvK1.293, MA2.027ff, PC00510

Man passes through different phases and when in a lower consciousness he cannot comprehend the consciousness above. When we were in the state of the unborn child we had no knowledge of the world of man. If the vegetable kingdom could speak it would cry out, "Where is the world of man?" We cry out, "Where is the kingdom of the spirit?" ADP.118
