



The merciful outpourings (fayudat) of that Divine Essence, however, are vouchsafed unto all beings and it is incumbent upon man to ponder in his heart upon the effusions of the Divine Grace, the soul (ruh) being counted as one, rather than upon the Divine Essence (haqiqat-i-iluhiyah). Forel.25

The spirits of men proceed from God by emanation [qiyam-i-suduri], in the same way as the discourse proceeds from the speaker and the writing from the writer; that is, the speaker himself does not become the speech, any more than the writer becomes the writing: The connection is rather one of emanational procession. For the speaker remains in an absolute state of ability and power, as the discourse emanates from him, even as the action emanates from its author. The true Speaker, the divine Essence, ever remains in the same condition and experiences no change or alteration, no transformation or vicissitude. It has neither beginning nor end. The procession of human spirits from God is therefore an emanational procession. When it is said in the Torah that God breathed His spirit into man, this spirit is even as speech that has emanated from the true Speaker and taken effect in the reality of man. SAQ#54.4 (was SAQ.205-206)

...the individual realities of mankind, when spiritually born, are emanations from the reality of Divinity, just as the flame, heat and light of the sun are the effulgence of the sun and not a part of the sun itself. Therefore, a spirit has emanated from the reality of Divinity, and its effulgences have become visible in human entities or realities.... the spirit of man is essential and, therefore, eternal. It is a divine bounty. It is an effulgence of the Sun of Reality... PUP.059-060

...all phenomena in the inner world of reality receive the bounties of God from the source of divine bestowal. This human plane, or kingdom, is one creation, and all souls are the signs and traces of the divine bounty. In this plane there are no exceptions; all have been recipients of their bestowals through the heavenly bounty.... all phenomena in the inner world of reality receive the bounties of God from the source of divine bestowal... PUP.286

...the reality of man is a pure and unknown essence constituting a depository, emanating from the light of the Ancient Entity - God. This essence or soul of man because of its innate purity and its connection with the unseen Ancient Entity is old as regards time but new as regards individuality. SW v07#19 p190 (Abdu'l-Baha)

...He fashioned him in due proportion, and breathed (nafakhtu) into him something of His spirit. Qur'an 32:9; also 15:29

From the throne of Glory of the Creator His Light shines on the Soul emanated from him (Soul of the world, Logos) and is then further reflected on the individual soul, so that it too would reflect it and look back in longing to its divine origin in Him! (Fallscheer notes, p.52)




Kindle with the oil of wisdom the lamp of the spirit (ruh) within the innermost chamber of thy heart (qalb), and guard it with the globe of understanding ('aql), that the breath of the infidel may extinguish not its flame nor dim its brightness. KI#065 p061

...it behooveth him to seek only the divine bounties and subjects which lead to the real knowledge of the invisible (world of God), through the mediation of the Holy Spirit.  Then he will perceive the reality of the triune powers in man, through his innate perception. TAB.611

These verses of the Torah have therefore numerous meanings. We will explain one of them and will say that by "Adam" is meant the spirit [ruh] of Adam and by "Eve" is meant His self [nafs]. For in certain passages of the Sacred Scriptures where women are mentioned, the intended meaning is the human self. SAQ#30.5 (was SAQ.123) cf. Henry Corbin: "But the Adam to whom we have just alluded is first of all the spiritual Adam, the Anthropos in the true sense, the first degree of determinate being, the Nous, the First Intelligence. The second degree is the universal Soul (Nafs kulliya), which is the celestial Eve." (Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 168)

Write all that We have revealed unto thee with the ink of light upon the tablet of thy spirit (ruh). Should this not be in thy power, then make thine ink of the essence of thy heart (fu'ad).... AHW#71

The human spirit, which distinguishes man from the animal, is the rational soul, and these two terms--the human spirit [ruh-i-insani] and the rational soul [nafs-i-natiqih]--designate one and the same thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of the philosophers is called the rational soul, encompasses all things and as far as human capacity permits, discovers their realities and becomes aware of the properties and effects, the characteristics and conditions of earthly things. But the human spirit, unless it be assisted by the spirit of faith, cannot become acquainted with the divine mysteries and the heavenly realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear, bright, and polished, is still in need of light. Not until a sunbeam falls upon it can it discover the divine mysteries. As for the mind ['aql], it is the power of the human spirit. The spirit is as the lamp, and the mind as the light that shines from it. The spirit is as the tree, and the mind as the fruit. The mind is the perfection of the spirit and a necessary attribute thereof, even as the rays of the sun are an essential requirement of the sun itself. SAQ#55.5-6 (was SAQ.208-209)

...the sign of these triune powers which exist in man are spirit, mind and soul. The spirit is the power of life, the mind is the power which apprehendeth the reality of things, and the soul is an intermediary between the Supreme Concourse (or Spiritual World) and the lower concourse (or material world). AB00620, TAB.611

Concerning the unity of soul (nafs) and spirit (ruh): when the soul is affected by the breath of the Holy Spirit, it will be united with the spirit, like the unity of the mirror and the sun. Its brilliant luminosity will reflect in this pure mirror. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:196)

God, in His Bounty, has given us a foretaste here, has given us certain proofs of the difference that exists between body, soul and spirit. PT#20:2 p065

There are in the world of humanity three degrees; those of the body, the soul, and spirit. The body is the physical or animal degree of man.... unlike the animal, man has a rational soul, the human intelligence. This intelligence of man is the intermediary between his body and his spirit. When man allows the spirit, through his soul, to enlighten his understanding, then does he contain all Creation; because man, being the culmination of all that went before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains all the lower world within himself. Illumined by the spirit through the instrumentality of the soul, man's radiant intelligence makes him the crowning-point of Creation.... the [rational] soul is the intermediary between the body and the [human] spirit. PT#31:1-5+7 p096-097, KHT1.168.

When we speak of the soul we mean the motive power of this physical body.... There is, however, a faculty in man which unfolds to his vision the secrets of existence.... This is the power of the mind.... There is still another power which is differentiated from that of the soul and mind. This third power is the spirit which is an emanation from the divine bestower; it is the effulgence of the sun of reality, the radiation of the celestial world, the spirit of faith... Christ says, 'You must be baptized with the spirit.' This spirit of faith is the flame of reality, the life of humanity and the cause of eternal illumination. It inspires man to attain the virtues and perfections of the divine world. It is my hope that each one of you may become conscious of this flame. ADP.122

When studying at present, in English, the available Baha'i writings on the subject of body, soul and spirit, one is handicapped by a certain lack of clarity because not all were translated by the same person, and also there are, as you know, still many Baha'i writings untranslated. But there is no doubt that spirit and soul seem to have been interchanged in meaning sometimes; soul and mind have, likewise, been interchanged in meaning, no doubt due to difficulties arising from different translations. What the Baha'is do believe though is that we have three aspects of our humanness, so to speak, a body, a mind and an immortal identity - soul or spirit. We believe the mind forms a link between the soul and the body, and the two interact on each other. (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Arohanui, p. 89)

The spirit results from the union of the body and soul, then the spirit becomes immortal, always remaining with the soul and forming for it after death a sort of ethereal body. (Notes of Mrs. Aline Devine, Eliot, Maine, of her visit to Abdu'l-Baha, Oct. 1907)

...in the microcosm, or the little man, there are deposited three realities.... an outward or physical reality ... a second or higher reality which is the intellectual reality ... a third reality ... that is the spiritual reality. SW v07#13 p117-118, FWU.051

Spirit is the highest and supreme development of the soul. Soul is the material or outer self, the mind. Mind is the action of the soul's powers. The body is the physical covering or medium in which mind acts and functions. SW v14#01 p009

The differentiation which we make of these subjects is as follows: By soul we mean that power which is the mover of this physical body which is entirely under the control and lives in accordance with its dictates. The soul that lives in the material world is dark for in the material world there is aggression, struggle, greed, vice and transgression. If the soul remains in this station, and moves along these paths it will receive no uplift, but if it becomes the recipient of the world of mind, its darkness will be transformed into light; its tyranny into justice, its ignorance into wisdom and its aggression into loving kindness. There will be no more struggle for existence and man will become free from egotism. He will be released from the material world and become the embodiment of justice, the personification of the virtues. He will become a sanctified soul and be the means of the illumination of the world of humanity and an honor to human kind. He will confer life upon the children of men so that all nations will attain to the station of perfection. To such a person we may apply the name of "a holy soul." The soul in itself cannot unravel the mysteries; but the mind is superior to the soul. The mind is a power whereby man can investigate the reality of every object. It unfolds to his vision the secrets of existence and leads him on and on to the station of divine sublimity. It frees man from the fetters of self and causes him to ascend to the pure heaven of sanctity. The third power of man is the power of the Spirit. It is an emanation from the Divine Bestower. It is the effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the radiation of the celestial world. In short it is the essence of the Spirit of Faith of which His Holiness Christ speaks when He says, "Those that are born of the flesh are flesh and those born of the spirit are spirit." The spirit is the axis around which the eternal life revolves. It is conducive to everlasting glory; it is the cause of the exultation of the world of humanity. Again His Holiness Christ says, "Whosoever has not received a portion of the spirit is as dead. Let the dead bury their dead." In another place Christ says, "You must be baptized with spirit." This Spirit is the life of the world of humanity; the cause of eternal illumination. It inspires man to attain to the virtues and perfections of the divine world. SW v04#02 p.038 (Abdu'l-Baha, 30 Jan. 1913)




Know that spirit in general is divided into five sorts - the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, the human spirit, the spirit of faith, and the divine spirit of sanctity. The vegetable spirit is the virtue augmentative, or growing or vegetative faculty, which results from the admixture of the simple elements, with the cooperation of water, air and heat. The animal spirit is the virtue perceptive resulting from the admixture and absorption of the vital elements generated in the heart, which apprehend sense-impressions. The human spirit consists of the rational, or logical, reasoning faculty, which apprehends general ideas and things intelligible and perceptible. Now these "spirits" are not reckoned as Spirit in the terminology of the Scriptures and the usage of the people of the Truth, inasmuch as the laws governing them are as the laws which govern all phenomenal being (i.e., all existences belonging to the phenomenal or material universe, called "the world of generation and corruption"), in respect to generation, corruption, production, change and reversion... TAB.115, MKT1:128

Thou hast asked about the spirit and its various stages. The people believe that it is a single reality which is only multiplied in relation to various grades and stations; that is to say, it progresseth from the lowest level to the highest level. It is like the progression of the mineral from the mineral condition to the plane of growth, and like the progression of the plant from the vegetable state to the plane of sensation. When it arriveth in the world of man, it becometh specified and individualized by perfect determinations, and when it receiveth the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, it attaineth unto eternal life.     Although this view is correct, the intention of "spirit" here is existence and life, for existence hath one signification, not multiple significations. Furthermore, existence hath various states, and in each state it hath a different determination, individualization, and particular potentiality. For instance, the mineral, plant, animal, and human states all belong to the domain of existence, and not one of these realities is deprived of that signification. But existence hath a different manifestation, appearance, and condition in each state. Thus, in the stage of the mineral it hath a particular determination which distinguisheth it from other determinations and individualizations. And in the stage of the plant it possesseth certain qualities and manifestations that are unique to the vegetable world, and which are its particular determinations and individualizations. Then in the stage of the animal it manifesteth different properties and perfections that distinguish it from the other kingdoms. Finally, in the stage of man existence revealeth itself and shineth forth with the utmost power conceivable in the world of creation. In brief, existence hath one signification, but its manifestations, appearances, and attributes vary in every grade and station.     As for the kinds of spirit, these are fixed realities each having its own specification and individualization, particular perfections and attributes, which distinguish one from another. They differ with respect to their essential qualities and what they signify. The mineral spirit, therefore, cannot be compared to the plant spirit, because the latter is the power of growth. The animal spirit, also, is a specialized reality distinct from all besides itself through its attributes and significations, for it is the power of sense perception and volitional movement. MKT1:219-220, PC00511

..."soul" is a term applied to numerous realities, according to the exigencies of the following relations with respect to development in the world of existence... (1) In the mineral kingdom, soul is called "latent force"... (2) In the vegetable kingdom it is called "virtue augmentative" or the power of growth... (3) In the animal kingdom it is called "sense perception" or instinct... (4) In the human world, soul signifies the "rational being" or mind... (5) If the angelic aspect becomes more powerful, and the divine power and brightness surround man, then the second birth takes place, and eternal life is found at this point. SW v07#19 p.189-191 (Abdu'l-Baha)

In the mineral kingdom, soul is called 'latent force', silently working for the disintegration of the substance of the mineral. SW v07#19 p.190 (Abdu'l-Baha)

One questioned Him about spirit and matter. The Master replied: "This question may be answered in two ways, philosophically as well as spiritually. Philosophically, the answer is easy because in philosophy the spirit is energy and all matter is endowed with energy; and this power is inseparable from matter, as in electricity. In other words, matter is a vehicle for spirit but the transformation of matter does not involve the extinction of that power because transformation and transference are in the properties of matter. Immaterial beings or realities, however, are protected and preserved and their essential power remains unaltered. The manifestation or appearance of the spirit varies due to changes in matter and bodies. This, however, does not mean that spirit itself is subject to extinction." (Mahmud's Diary, 17 Oct. 1912, p.335)         [alternative translation:] One of those present asked about the relationship between spirit and matter. `Abdu'l-Baha replied: 'This question has two answers: one is philosophical and the other is divine. The philosophical answer is easy because in philosophy 'spirit' is defined as a force belonging to every material thing which cannot be dissociated from it. For example, the power of electricity, or to use another expression, the 'spirit of instruments', is material, but through the transformation of matter the destruction of that force is not required, since transformation and transferal are among the concomitants of material things. As for immaterial realities and spirits, they are inviolable and impregnable, for these fundamental powers are eternal, and it is through the transformation of bodies and corporeal forms that the manifestation of spirit is diversified. It is not possible for spirit itself to become annihilated.'

First it must be recognized that philosophers and researchers in the scholarly community have defined "spirit" in different ways. The best, most perfect, and clearest of these is that spirit is an abstract substance separate from matter in essence but not in act. It will not be hidden from the wise that this definition, insofar as it is a definition by negation, fails to elucidate the reality of the essence of the thing described. It is a comprehensive, restrictive definition which, nonetheless, better explains the intent of the word "spirit" than other definitions. It can be known from this definition, for instance, that spirit is different from matter and material things in regard to its essence. Spirit cannot be described by such attributes as ingress and egress, independence and inherence, advance and retreat, movement and stillness. Eyes cannot perceive it, nor can the other senses. Yet it remains in need of matter in all acts, and inseparable from it in all conditions, for it is unimaginable that matter be stripped from it. No act can issue from spirit except through matter, and it is inconceivable that an effect could be produced by spirit save through the instrumentality of matter. (Mirza Abu'l-Fadl, Miracles and Metaphors, pp. 17-18, answering a question on angels)

The spirit is an emanation from God which has shone forth upon all created things, and all beings have a share and a portion thereof. ...the spirit manifests itself in the grades of existence in accordance with the requirements of those grades. In the mineral kingdom, it appears as the power of attraction, which causes these individual constituents to join together. It is the life force of the mineral, because the mineral in its own station is alive and not dead. In the plant kingdom, the power of growth is the vegetable spirit; and in the animal kingdom, the faculty of sense perception is the animal spirit, which results from the mingling and combination of elements; in other words, it is one of the requisites of such mingling and combination....         But according to the convention of the spiritually minded, the spirit which we have been discussing is not spirit, and what they intend by "spirit" is the everlasting spirit, or the life of faith. This is the spirit whereof His Holiness Christ said man must be baptized, and unless he is baptized by this spirit, he shall not enter into the Kingdom of God. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, AvK1.186, KHT1.100, AvK1.245; PC00603)




The human spirit, which distinguishes man from the animal, is the rational soul, and these two terms--the human spirit [ruh-i-insani] and the rational soul [nafs-i-natiqih]--designate one and the same thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of the philosophers is called the rational soul, encompasses all things and as far as human capacity permits, discovers their realities and becomes aware of the properties and effects, the characteristics and conditions of earthly things. But the human spirit, unless it be assisted by the spirit of faith, cannot become acquainted with the divine mysteries and the heavenly realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear, bright, and polished, is still in need of light. Not until a sunbeam falls upon it can it discover the divine mysteries. As for the mind ['aql], it is the power of the human spirit. The spirit is as the lamp, and the mind as the light that shines from it. The spirit is as the tree, and the mind as the fruit. The mind is the perfection of the spirit and a necessary attribute thereof, even as the rays of the sun are an essential requirement of the sun itself. SAQ#55.5-6 (was SAQ.208-209)

Now in the human kingdom there is also a nature which is begotten through the composition of the elements, but it is united with the rational soul and the faculty of intellect. This human spirit, which is the same as the rational soul and the faculty of intellect, encompasses all things, and discovers and understands them. It draws forth the secrets of beings from the sphere of the invisible into the sphere of the visible. This is the power that discovers all the arts and crafts and sciences and makes them known to the world. Although it is not sensible, its effects are manifest and clear. Though it cannot be discerned with the physical senses, this power can be perceived with the spiritual senses. AvK1.186, KHT1.100; PC00603

Thou hast asked regarding the soul and the spirit. By the soul is meant the reality of man that is inclined towards the contingent world, and is associated with the worldly aspects of human life. This definition of the soul is known and referred to as the natural human spirit that is common to all mankind. So in this sense, the spirit and the soul are one and the same. But the heavenly spirit is that reality of man that is derived from the outpourings of divine Grace, and blessed by the splendours of the Sun of Truth. The heavenly spirit is confined to true believers. All others remain deprived of this holy breath and are such as are referred to as 'the dead' in the language common to the followers of mystical truth. (Provisional translation, Malakut-i-Vujud, pp. 110-111)




When studying at present, in English, the available Baha'i writings on the subject of body, soul and spirit, one is handicapped by a certain lack of clarity because not all were translated by the same person, and also there are, as you know, still many Baha'i writings untranslated. But there is no doubt that spirit and soul seem to have been interchanged in meaning sometimes; soul and mind have, likewise, been interchanged in meaning, no doubt due to difficulties arising from different translations. What the Baha'is do believe though is that we have three aspects of our humanness, so to speak, a body, a mind and an immortal identity - soul or spirit. We believe the mind forms a link between the soul and the body, and the two interact on each other. (7 Jun. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Arohanui, p. 89)

To begin with, the word "soul", with its accretions of meanings during the centuries, is an unfortunate translation of the Greek word psyche. It is more properly translated, according to the various contexts, as Reason, Mind, Intelligence, Life, the vital principle in things as well as in man; it is the constant that causes change but itself does not change. In fact, Plato's use of many different words for the rational order has caused much confusion... (Huntington Cairns, in the introduction to the Collected Dialogues of Plato, p. xx)
