



[Progressive unfoldment of spiritual capacities linked to contemplation (qewrias)]: "all things come from contemplation and are contemplation ... actions have their goal in knowledge and their driving-force is desire of knowledge ... contemplation ascends from nature to soul, and soul to intellect ... thinking and being are the same ... the other lives are thoughts in a way, but one is a growth-thought, one a sense-thought, and one a soul-thought. How, then, are they thoughts? Because they are rational principles (logoi). ... all things are a byproduct of contemplation" Plotinus, Enn.III.8.7-8

All that we see around us is the work of mind.  It is mind in the herb and in the mineral that acts on the human body, and changes its condition. AL.095




This spirit is the discovering power that encompasses all things. All the wondrous signs, all the crafts and discoveries, all the mighty undertakings and momentous historical events of which you are aware, have been discovered by this spirit and brought forth from the invisible realm into the visible plane through its spiritual power. Thus it abides upon the earth and yet makes discoveries in the heavens, and deduces that which is unknown from known and visible realities. SAQ#36.4 (was SAQ.144)

The fundamental principles of the Prophets are scientific, but the forms and imitations which have appeared are opposed to science.  If religion does not agree with science, it is superstition and ignorance; for God has endowed man with reason in order that he may perceive reality. PUP.128

...thou shouldst investigate all things in a methodical and scientific way, and by clear proofs, perspicuous signs and incontrovertible evidences, seek to discover the undisclosed verities and the hidden mysteries which are concealed in the inmost heart of the realities of the universe. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:022)

The spirit of man is a circumambient power that encompasseth the realities of all things...the human spirit is an all-encompassing power that exerteth its dominion over the inner essences of all created things, uncovering the well kept mysteries of the phenomenal world. The divine spirit, however, doth unveil divine realities and universal mysteries that lie within the spiritual world. SWAB#145 p169-170

...the spirit of man differentiates and distinguishes him above all the lower kingdoms.  It is this spirit to which the verse in the Old Testament refers when it states, 'And God said, Let us make man in our image, after Our likeness.'  The spirit of man alone penetrates the realities of God and partakes of the divine bounties. PUP.259

Humanity consists of the spiritual reality and that reality is penetrative in all things, and it is that reality which discovers the invisible mysteries, and through that reality all sciences, arts and inventions become known and manifest. Whatever thou beholdest of the works of man is but a faint ray of that reality. It encircles all things and comprehends all things. The human spirit is the discoverer of things, the seer of things and comprehends all things... As the spirit of man environs all things, therefore he has discovered them and brought them from the unknown world into the arena of manifestation. SW v02#14 p007 (Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 88, From a Tablet to Ella Cooper)

The human spirit consists of the rational, or logical, reasoning faculty, which apprehends general ideas and things intelligible and perceptible. TAB.115

...the spirit of man can penetrate and discover the realities of all things, can solve the secrets and mysteries of all created objects. PUP.264

...that power of the human mind ... graspeth universal ideas and layeth bare the secrets of creation... Of this power of discovery which belongeth to the human mind, this power which can grasp abstract and universal ideas, the animal remaineth totally ignorant, and indeed denieth its existence. SWAB#163 p194

...man discovereth those hidden secrets of nature that in conformity with the laws thereof must remain concealed, and transfereth them from the invisible plane to the visible.... he bringeth to light the past events that have been lost to memory, and foreseeth by his power of induction future happenings that are as yet unknown. Forel.11

This is a power that encompasses all created things, comprehends their realities, unravels their hidden mysteries, and brings them under its control. SAQ#48.4 (was SAQ.186)

Through the power of the rational soul, man can discover the realities of things, comprehend their properties, and penetrate the mysteries of existence. All the sciences, branches of learning, arts, inventions, institutions, undertakings, and discoveries have resulted from the comprehension of the rational soul. These were once impenetrable secrets, hidden mysteries, and unknown realities, and the rational soul gradually discovered them and brought them out of the invisible plane into the realm of the visible. This is the greatest power of comprehension in the world of nature, and the uttermost limit of its flight is to comprehend the realities, signs, and properties of contingent things.... The spiritual power associated with the world of nature is the power of investigation, and it is through investigation that it discovers the realities and properties of things. SAQ#58.3-4 (was SAQ.217-218)

...the human reality encompasses the realities of all things and discovers their true nature, their properties, and their mysteries. For instance, all the existing crafts, inventions, sciences, and branches of learning have been discovered by the human reality. At one time they were all hidden and concealed mysteries, but the reality of man gradually discovered them and brought them forth from the invisible world into the visible realm. SAQ#71.6 (was SAQ.252)

God has conferred upon and added to man a distinctive power - the faculty of intellectual investigation into the secrets of creation, the acquisition of higher knowledge - the greatest virtue of which is scientific enlightenment. PUP.031

The virtues of humanity are many but science is the most noble of them all. The distinction which man enjoys above and beyond the station of the animal is due to this paramount virtue. It is a bestowal of God; it is not material, it is divine. Science is an effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the power of investigating and discovering the verities of the universe, the means by which man finds a pathway to God.... Science is the first emanation from God toward man. All created beings embody the potentiality of material perfection, but the power of intellectual investigation and scientific acquisition is a higher virtue specialized to man alone. PUP.049

These ideal virtues or powers in man surpass or surround nature, comprehend natural laws and phenomena, penetrate the mysteries of the unknown and invisible and bring them forth into the realm of the known and visible. PUP.081

He [man] discovers latent realities within the bosom of the earth, uncovers treasures, penetrates secrets and mysteries of the phenomenal world and brings to light that which according to nature's jealous laws should remain hidden, unknown and unfathomable.  Through an ideal inner power man brings these realities forth from the invisible plane to the visible. PUP.178

Man is possessed of the emanations of consciousness; he has perception, ideality and is capable of discovering the mysteries of the universe. PUP.241

He has endowed him with a mighty power which is capable of discovering the mysteries of phenomena.... He acquires divine wisdom; he searches out the mysteries of creation; he witnesses the radiance of omnipotence; he attains to the second birth... PUP.262

All human discoveries were once secrets and mysteries sealed and stored up in the bosom of the material universe until the mind of man, which is the greatest of divine effulgences, penetrated them and made them subservient to his will and purpose. PUP.352

...in man there is present this supernatural force or faculty which discovers the realities of things and which possesses the power of idealization or intellection.  It is capable of discovering scientific laws, and science we know is not a tangible reality.  Science exists in the mind of man as an ideal reality.  The mind itself, reason itself, is an ideal reality and not tangible. PUP.360

...in the human organism there is a center of intellection, a power of intellectual operation which is the discoverer of the realities of things. This power can unravel the mysteries of phenomena.  It can comprehend that which is knowable, not alone the sensible.... All the sciences which we now utilize are the products of that wondrous reality. PUP.417

The inner ethereal reality grasps the mysteries of existence, discovers scientific truths and indicates their technical application....  It is the inner reality which comprehends things, throws light upon the mysteries of life and being, discovers the heavenly Kingdom, unseals the mysteries of God and differentiates man from the brute. PUP.464

To man is given the special gift of the intellect by which he is able to receive a larger share of the light Divine. PT#05:15 p025

Meditation is the key for opening the doors of mysteries. In that state man abstracts himself: in that state man withdraws himself from all outside objects; in that subjective mood he is immersed in the ocean of spiritual life and can unfold the secrets of things-in-themselves. PT#54:13 p175

There is, however, a faculty in man which unfolds to his vision the secrets of existence.  It gives him a power whereby he may investigate the reality of every object.  It leads man on and on to the luminous station of divine sublimity and frees him from all the fetters of self, causing him to ascend to the pure heaven of sanctity.  This is the power of the mind... ADP.121

The fifth [degree of motion] is the motion of the intellect whereby the ignorant become wise; the indifferent, alert; the dark, illuminated and the carnally-minded, spiritual. ADP.125

First and foremost among these favors, which the Almighty hath conferred upon man, is the gift of understanding (khirad). His purpose in conferring such a gift is none other except to enable His creature to know and recognize the one true God - exalted be His glory. This gift giveth man the power to discern the truth in all things, leadeth him to that which is right, and helpeth him to discover the secrets of creation. Next in rank, is the power of vision, the chief instrument whereby his understanding can function. The senses of hearing, of the heart, and the like, are similarly to be reckoned among the gifts with which the human body is endowed. Immeasurably exalted is the Almighty Who hath created these powers, and revealed them in the body of man. GWB#095 p194

This scientific power investigates and apprehends created objects and the laws surrounding them.  It is the discoverer of the hidden and mysterious secrets of the material universe and is peculiar to man alone.  The most noble and praiseworthy accomplishment of man, therefore, is scientific knowledge and attainment. PUP.029

Seek always to prove mysteries in the light of the rational mind. ADP.108

...the intellect ... discovereth the inner essence of all things, and comprehendeth those realities which cannot be seen... SWAB#021 p046

Now in the human kingdom there is also a nature which is begotten through the composition of the elements, but it is united with the rational soul and the faculty of intellect. This human spirit, which is the same as the rational soul and the faculty of intellect, encompasses all things, and discovers and understands them. It draws forth the secrets of beings from the sphere of the invisible into the sphere of the visible. This is the power that discovers all the arts and crafts and sciences and makes them known to the world. Although it is not sensible, its effects are manifest and clear. Though it cannot be discerned with the physical senses, this power can be perceived with the spiritual senses. AvK1.186, KHT1.100; PC00603




In the investigation of a subject the right method of approach is to carefully examine its premises. PUP.229

O thou who art steadfast and endowed with understanding! The wise define human reason as the ability to discover the unknown, by means of a sequence of major and minor premises of known facts, leading to the discovery of intelligible universal truths. They consider this to be among the greatest bounties and distinguishing features of the world of humanity. (Provisional translation, Malakut-i-Vujud p.120)




The publication of high thoughts is the dynamic power in the arteries of life; it is the very soul of the world. Thoughts are a boundless sea, and the effects and varying conditions of existence are as the separate forms and individual limits of the waves; not until the sea boils up will the waves rise and scatter their pearls of knowledge on the shore of life. SDC.109-110




...the comprehension of one thing by another is dependent upon two things. First, by encompassing.... second is by resemblance and likeness which is to say unless one thing resembles another it can in no way conceive its reality. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.31 MKT2:045-046)




...the life-giving wine of the mysteries of reality and understanding can be drunk from the illumined chalice of similes and the delicate goblet of metaphor by those who are athirst in the wilderness of confusion. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.10, MKT2:008)
