



The fifth degree of spirit is the Holy Spirit, which is the mediator between God and His creation. It is like a mirror facing the sun: Just as a spotless mirror receives the rays of the sun and reflects its bounty [fayd] to others, so too is the Holy Spirit the mediator of the light of holiness, which it conveys from the Sun of Truth to sanctified souls. This Spirit is adorned with all the divine perfections. Whensoever it appears, the world is revived, a new cycle is ushered in, and the body of humanity is clothed in a fresh attire. SAQ#36.7 (was SAQ.145)

...there must be a Mediator between God and man, and this is none other than the Holy Spirit, which brings the created earth into relation with the 'Unthinkable One,' the divine Reality. The Divine Reality may be likened to the sun and the Holy Spirit to the rays of the sun.... The Holy Spirit is the Light from the Sun of Truth bringing, by its infinite power, life and illumination to all mankind, flooding all souls with Divine Radiance, conveying the blessings of God's Mercy to the whole world... PT#17:7-9 p058-059

Unless the Holy Spirit become intermediary, one cannot attain directly to the bounties of God.  Do not overlook the obvious truths, for it is a self-evident fact that a child cannot be instructed without a teacher... I hope that through the breath of the Holy Spirit the mysteries may become disclosed to thee, for without this channel it is impossible and unattainable. TAB.591-592

...it behooveth him to seek only the divine bounties and subjects which lead to the real knowledge of the invisible (world of God), through the mediation of the Holy Spirit.  Then he will perceive the reality of the triune powers in man, through his innate perception. TAB.611

As there must be an intermediary to transmit to the earth the life-giving power of the sun, so must there be an intermediary to bring God to man; and this is realized through the ever-present power of the Holy Spirit. BSC#825 p.451

That Holy Spirit is the mediator between God and His people, between the Creator and His Creation. It is like a mirror facing the Sun. The mirror receives light from the Sun, and gives the light to others; so the manifestation receives light from the Sun and gives it to others. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 43) [same as SAQ]




...Christ did not attain His Messianic station and His perfections at the moment of His baptism, when the Holy Spirit descended upon Him in the form of a dove. SAQ#38.9 (was SAQ.153)

As to the 'white dove', it is the Holy Spirit.  It shall flutter over thee and over the head of the beloved of God. TAB.191

Suffer thy home to become a nest for the dove of the Holy Spirit... TAB.665

And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son... Luke 3:22

...The story about the dove is simply a metaphor. No dove came down. Amongst the people, John the Baptist felt that the Holy Spirit was in Christ He knew about His mission from early childhood. LG#1642, SW v14#09 p274 (Abdu'l-Baha)




Methinks that I hear the voice of the Holy Spirit calling from behind Me saying: Vary Thou Thy theme, and alter Thy tone, lest the heart of him who hath fixed his gaze upon Thy face be saddened. GWB#015 p037

The voice of the Burning Bush is raised in the midmost heart of the world, and the Holy Spirit calleth aloud among the nations:  'Lo, the Desired One is come with manifest dominion!' ESW.048

...till at last they perpetrated what hath made the Holy Spirit to lament, and the tears of them that have near access to God to flow. ESW.049

There befell Me at the hands of him whom I have nurtured..., by day and by night, what hath caused the Holy Spirit, and the dwellers of the Tabernacle of the Grandeur of God, the Lord of this wondrous Day, to lament. ESW.157

In the Qur'an it is said: "And We sent Our Spirit to her, and He took before her the form of a perfect man", meaning that the Holy Spirit assumed a human form, as an image appears in a mirror, and conversed with Mary. SAQ#17.3 (was SAQ.087)

Moreover, in certain passages of the Sacred Scriptures where allusion is made to the Spirit, a specific person is intended, as it is conventionally said in speech and conversation that such-and-such a person is spirit personified, or is the embodiment of mercy and generosity. In this case the focus is not upon the lamp but upon the light. SAQ#25.6 (was SAQ.108)

...at so critical an hour and under such appalling circumstances the 'Most Great Spirit', as designated by Himself, and symbolized in the Zoroastrian, the Mosaic, the Christian, and Muhammadan Dispensations by the Sacred Fire, the Burning Bush, the Dove and the Angel Gabriel respectively, descended upon, and revealed itself, personated by a 'Maiden', to the agonized soul of Baha'u'llah. GPB.101




By "the Holy Spirit" is meant the outpouring grace of God and the effulgent rays that emanate from His Manifestation. Thus Christ was the focal centre of the rays of the Sun of Truth, and from this mighty centre--the reality of Christ--the grace of God shone upon the other mirrors which were the realities of the Apostles. SAQ#25.2 (was SAQ.108)

...the reality of Christ was a clear mirror wherein the Sun of Truth--that is, the divine Essence--appeared and shone forth with infinite perfections and attributes. It is not that the Sun, which is the Essence of the Divinity, was ever divided or multiplied--for it remains one--but it became manifest in the mirror. That is why Christ said, "The Father is in the Son", meaning that that Sun is manifest and visible in this mirror. The Holy Spirit is the outpouring grace of God which was revealed and manifested in the reality of Christ. Prophethood is the station of the heart [qalb] of Christ, and the Holy Spirit is the station of His spirit [ruh]. SAQ#27.7-8 (was SAQ.114)

The sanctified realities of the Manifestations of God have two spiritual stations: One is that of the state of divine manifestation, which can be compared to the orb of the sun, and the other is that of radiance and revelation, which may be likened to the divine light and perfections--the Holy Spirit. For the Holy Spirit is the manifold grace and perfections of God, and these divine perfections are even as the rays and heat of the sun. Now, the sun is the sun by virtue of its effulgent rays; without these rays it would not be the sun. If the perfections of God were not revealed and manifested in Jesus, He would not be Christ. He is a Manifestation of God precisely because the divine perfections are revealed in Him. The Prophets of God are Manifestations, and the divine perfections--that is, the Holy Spirit--are that which is manifested in Them. SAQ#31.2 (was SAQ.127)

This quickening spirit [Divine Spirit] emanates spontaneously from the Sun of Truth, from the reality of Divinity, and is not a revelation or a manifestation. It is like the rays of the sun. The rays are emanations from the sun. PUP.059

Now, if we were to understand manifestational procession [qiyam-i-zuhuri] as "appearance" [tajalli] rather than "division into parts" [tajazzi], we have already stated that this is the manner of the procession and appearance of the Holy Spirit and the Word, which are from God. As it is said in the Gospel of John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God." It follows then that the Holy Spirit and the Word are the appearance [tajalli] of God and consist in the divine perfections that shone forth in the reality of Christ. And these perfections were with God, even as the sun which manifests the fullness of its glory in a mirror. For by "the Word" is not meant the body of Christ but the divine perfections that were manifested in Him. Thus Christ was like a spotless mirror which was turned towards the Sun of Truth, and the perfections of that Sun--that is, its light and heat--were plainly manifest in that mirror. If we look into the mirror, we see the sun and we say it is the sun. Therefore, the Word and the Holy Spirit, which consist in the perfections of God, are the divine appearance. This is the meaning of the verse in the Gospel which says: "the Word was with God, and the Word was God", for the divine perfections cannot be distinguished from the divine Essence. The perfections of Christ are called the Word since all created things are like individual letters, and individual letters do not convey a complete meaning, while the perfections of Christ are even as an entire word, for from a word a complete meaning can be inferred. As the reality of Christ was the manifestation of the divine perfections, it was even as a word. Why? Because it comprised a complete meaning, and that is why it has been called the Word. And know that the procession of the Word and the Holy Spirit from God, which is a manifestational procession [tajalliy-i-zuhuri] and appearance, should not be taken to mean that the reality of the Divinity has been divided or multiplied, or has descended from its heights of purity and sanctity. SAQ#54.5-6 (was SAQ.206-207)

And as for "the Divine Soul" (an-nafs al-ilahiyyah), it consists of the Universal Reality which brings together all of the Divine realities of the realm of Primal Manifestation (lahutiyyah) and the eternal secrets, the outer aspect of which is the ancient light and the inner aspect is the most mighty and sublime mystery, the Primal Point from which appear all things and to which they revert, from which they originate and to which they return. Thus is it the Primal Oneness (al-ahadiyyah) in its essence and the derived Oneness (al-wahidiyyah) in its attributes. And from it there appears plurality through manifestation [is manifested plurality, zuhur] and illumination, and it becomes divided, dispersed and manifold, and radiates. And so the horizons and souls become filled and illumined by it on the Day of the Covenant, and on account of it the tabernacles of unity tremble and are set in motion. From it there grow the branches of the tree of oneness and by it they are clothed in the primal garment and the most perfect light. And from a single sign (ayah) from it there appear all of the (Divine) names to which human realities can attain and from a mark (simah) from it there grow forth all of the true hidden (Divine) attributes. And so it is the centre of the circle of existence through the manifestation [zuhur] of "There is no god but God" and the axis of the sphere of eternity, around which circles [p. 97] the star of oneness and unity, such that all of the hidden realities circle around this point of oneness in the realm of Primal Manifestation (an-nuqtah al-ahadiyyah al-lahutiyyah) and all of the subtle luminous essences {kaynunat) derive from this flame which is kindled, ablaze and speaking forth in the tree of humanity saying: "There is no god but He, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Eternal." ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, LOI2.99-117, MKT1:096)

Concerning the Divine Spirit (Ruhu'l-Lahutiyyih), it is the Holy Essence and complete Word, the perfect Sign, the Mystery of Existence and the Reality which is hidden from the eyes of all existence. It is the Supreme Pen and the Soul of Mercy, the Manifestation of the Sun of Truth from the horizon of creation and its Sun in the dawning-place of existence. This is restricted to the Prophets in the world of creation. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:483)

The limited is ever in need of the unlimited. The material must be correlated with the spiritual. The material may be likened to the body, but divine virtues are the breathings of the Holy Spirit itself. PUP.205

But as to the Holy Spirit, it is the manifestation of Lordly Mysteries, and the holy enlightening Truth bestowing Divine perfections on human spirits. And it is a light shining brilliantly upon the Horizon, dispelling all the darkness of the realities of contingency. It is life-giving to the souls, sanctified from all forms, ancient in its identity, eternal in its attributes. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:219-220)




The fifth degree of spirit is the Holy Spirit, which is the mediator between God and His creation. It is like a mirror facing the sun: Just as a spotless mirror receives the rays of the sun and reflects its bounty [fayd] to others, so too is the Holy Spirit the mediator of the light of holiness, which it conveys from the Sun of Truth to sanctified souls. This Spirit is adorned with all the divine perfections. Whensoever it appears, the world is revived, a new cycle is ushered in, and the body of humanity is clothed in a fresh attire. SAQ#36.7 (was SAQ.145)

It was already explained that, in general, spirit is divided into five categories: the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, the human spirit, the spirit of faith, and the Holy Spirit. SAQ#55.2 (was SAQ.208)

Know that spirit in general is divided into five sorts - the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, the human spirit, the spirit of faith, and the divine spirit of sanctity. The vegetable spirit is the virtue augmentative, or growing or vegetative faculty, which results from the admixture of the simple elements, with the cooperation of water, air and heat. The animal spirit is the virtue perceptive resulting from the admixture and absorption of the vital elements generated in the heart, which apprehend sense-impressions. The human spirit consists of the rational, or logical, reasoning faculty, which apprehends general ideas and things intelligible and perceptible. Now these "spirits" are not reckoned as Spirit in the terminology of the Scriptures and the usage of the people of the Truth, inasmuch as the laws governing them are as the laws which govern all phenomenal being (i.e., all existences belonging to the phenomenal or material universe, called "the world of generation and corruption"), in respect to generation, corruption, production, change and reversion... TAB.115, MKT1:128

The fifth and last degree of Spirit is the Holy Spirit. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 42)




The (Holy) Spirit is encompassing and surrounding all. It is holy. It is sanctified from attachment to a special place. It is present everywhere and at every time. It exists in all places, yet is placeless. SW v08#08 p098 (Abdu'l-Baha: From a message to body of friends in 1910)




He must also impart spiritual education, so that minds may apprehend the metaphysical world, breathe the sanctified breaths of the Holy Spirit, and enter into relationship with the Concourse on high, and that human realities may become the manifestations of divine blessings, that perchance all the names and attributes of God may be reflected in the mirror of the human reality and the meaning of the blessed verse "Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness" may be realized. SAQ#3.11 (was SAQ.009)

...the holy reality--the true existence--of every great man proceeds from God and owes its being to the breath of the Holy Spirit. SAQ#18.4 (was SAQ.090)

Know that there are two natures in man: the material and the spiritual. The material nature is inherited from Adam, while the spiritual nature is inherited from the reality of the Word of God, which is the spirituality of Christ. The material nature is born of Adam, but the spiritual nature is born of the grace of the Holy Spirit. The material nature is the source of every imperfection, and the spiritual nature is the source of all perfection. SAQ#29.2 (was SAQ.118)

This spiritual nature, which has come to exist through the grace of the divine Reality, is the sum of all perfections and proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit. It is the divine perfections; it is light, spirituality, guidance, exaltation, high-mindedness, justice, love, generosity, kindness to all, and charitable deeds: It is life upon life. This spiritual nature is an effulgence of the splendours of the Sun of Truth. SAQ#29.3 (was SAQ.118)

As to the fourth degree of spirit, it is the heavenly spirit, which is the spirit of faith and the outpouring grace of the All-Merciful. This spirit proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit, and through a power born of God it becomes the cause of everlasting life. It is that power which makes the earthly soul heavenly and the imperfect man perfect. It cleanses the impure, unlooses the tongue of the silent, sanctifies the bondslaves of passion and desire, and confers knowledge upon the ignorant. SAQ#36.6 (was SAQ.144-145)

...the sound reasoning mind concludes that the bounties of the Holy Spirit are continuous and that holy souls are ever the recipients of these divine emanations.  The potency of the Holy Spirit is everlasting, not temporary; for the sanctity of the Holy Spirit is its power and efficacy manifest in the spirits it quickens.... From time immemorial the divine teachings have been successively revealed, and the bounties of the Holy Spirit have ever been emanating. PUP.313

The Holy Spirit it is which, through the mediation of the prophets of God, teaches spiritual virtues to man and enables him to attain eternal life. PT#17:11 p059

If the moral precepts and foundations of divine civilization become united with the material advancement of man, ... Then will the power of the divine make itself effective and the breath of the Holy Spirit penetrate the essence of all things. PUP.109

This is the powerful Spirit, the dazzling light, the brilliant star and the overwhelming and universal abundance.  And, from its traces, spread and divulged everywhere, thou wilt know and realize its influence and comprehend its radiance. TAB.705

And if a nightingale ... recount the mysteries of God--a single word whereof quickeneth anew every lifeless form and bestoweth the spirit of holiness upon every mouldering bone--thou wilt behold a thousand claws of envy... CDB#2.39 (was SV.20)

Let them at all times refresh and restore themselves with the dews of heavenly grace, and with the breaths of the Holy Spirit revive and renew themselves from moment to moment. SWAB#002 p010

...the life of the spirit is a heavenly existence which consists in receiving the grace of the Divine Spirit and being quickened through the breath of the Holy Spirit.... What is meant by "eternal life" is receiving the grace of the Holy Spirit, even as a flower partakes of the gifts and breezes of spring. SAQ#67.3-4 (was SAQ.241-242)

The spirit and intelligence of man is essential, and that is the manifestation of divine virtues, the merciful bestowals of God, the eternal life and baptism through the Holy Spirit. PUP.070

The limited is ever in need of the unlimited. The material must be correlated with the spiritual. The material may be likened to the body, but divine virtues are the breathings of the Holy Spirit itself. PUP.205

The divine world is manifestly a world of light; therefore, man has need of illumination here.... That world is vivified by the breaths of the Holy Spirit; in this world we must seek them.  That is the Kingdom of everlasting life; it must be attained during this vanishing existence. PUP.226

In the human plane and kingdom man is a captive of nature and ignorant of the divine world until born of the breaths of the Holy Spirit out of physical conditions of limitation and deprivation.  Then he beholds the reality of the spiritual realm and Kingdom... PUP.289

The moral world is only attained through the effulgence of the Sun of Reality and the quickening life of the divine spirit. For this reason the holy Manifestations of God appear in the human world. PUP.330

That power is conferred upon man through the breath of the Holy Spirit.  It is an eternal reality, an indestructible reality, a reality belonging to the divine, supernatural kingdom; a reality, whereby the world is illumined, a reality which grants unto man eternal life. FWU.051

The human spirit hath an impression and effect in the world, but the divine Spirit giveth life to the souls and conferreth eternal life upon those who are attracted to the fragrances of God. TAB.065

We hope that day by day thou mayest take higher flights, attain to greater spiritual attraction, thy word become more penetrative through the power of the Spirit and through the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abha become more illumined.  This is the path of salvation and prosperity.  This is the attractive power of the Holy Spirit from the Supreme Concourse. TAB.474

...beseech thou God to remove the veil from the face of your sons so that they may find a spiritual understanding of the existence of God and may know how the human soul can receive bounty from the divine Spirit. TAB.530

May the breezes of the Holy Spirit waft upon you, that your intelligence may progress and your souls rejoice in your Lord.  Thus will you become eternal beings shining in the divine kingdom. ADP.076

But as to the Holy Spirit, it is the manifestation of Lordly Mysteries, and the holy enlightening Truth bestowing Divine perfections on human spirits. And it is a light shining brilliantly upon the Horizon, dispelling all the darkness of the realities of contingency. It is life-giving to the souls, sanctified from all forms, ancient in its identity, eternal in its attributes. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:219-220)

The most important thing is that which comes through the Spirit - the breath of the Holy Spirit. The soul through the Spirit can realize the Kingdom. SW v08#08 p100 (Abdu'l-Baha, Kinney-Beede-Thompson Notes, 30 Jun. 1909)

The teachings of Baha'u'llah are the breaths of the Holy Spirit which create man anew. SW v08#08 p103 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The material food, that is, the food for the body, is simply water and bread, but the food for the intellect is knowledge and the food for the spirit is the significances of the heavenly words and the bounties of the Holy Spirit. SW v08#08 p103 (Kinney-Beede-Thompson Notes, 8 Jul. 1909)

The quickening power of the Holy Spirit, which has come into the world through Baha'u'llah, is the source of immortal life; and those who are quickened by this spirit in this world will find themselves in great honor and glory in the next world. COC#1994 (11 Mar. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The human spirit possesseth wondrous powers, but it should be reinforced by the Holy Spirit. What thou hearest other than this is pure imagination. If, however, it [the human spirit] be assisted by the bounty of the Holy Spirit, then will its strength be a thing to marvel at. Then will that human spirit uncover realities, and unravel mysteries. Turn thy heart fully to the Holy Spirit, and invite others to do the same; then shall ye witness wonderful results. SWAB#139 p160

The spirit of man is a circumambient power that encompasseth the realities of all things...the human spirit is an all-encompassing power that exerteth its dominion over the inner essences of all created things, uncovering the well kept mysteries of the phenomenal world. The divine spirit, however, doth unveil divine realities and universal mysteries that lie within the spiritual world. SWAB#145 p169-170

It is my hope that the breaths of the Holy Spirit will so be breathed into your hearts that your tongues will disclose the mysteries, and set forth and expound the inner meanings of the Holy Books... SWAB#219 p275

Consider how the radiance of the light of the Holy Spirit doth illumine the court of the soul, that it bringeth about spiritual discoveries and produceth merciful attachment! TAB.199

Concerning the spirit of mercy which is from the command of God, it is the Holy Power, the divine confirmations, the knowledge of God, with which God aids whomsoever He willeth and thereby assists them to attain to the hidden visions and sure testimonies, and receive perfect and Ancient mercy and endless bounty. Then they will enter into the Paradise of Unity and the garden of eternity and rejoice through that with which God hath favored them with and will give thanks for His bounties.... (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, MKT1:482 and AvK1.204ff)

Progress is of two kinds: material and spiritual. The former is attained through observation of the surrounding existence and constitutes the foundation of civilization. Spiritual progress is through the breaths of the Holy Spirit and is the awakening of the conscious soul of man to perceive the reality of Divinity. PUP.142

What is needed to achieve success in the teaching field is a complete dedication on the part of the individual, consecration to the glorious task of spreading the Faith, and the living of the Baha'i life, because that creates the magnet for the Holy Spirit, and it is the Holy Spirit which quickens the new soul. Thus, the individual should be as a reed, through which the Holy Spirit may flow, to give new life to the seeking soul. COC#1984 (18 Dec. 1953 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Close association and loving service affects the hearts; and when the heart is affected, the the spirit can enter. It is the Holy Spirit that quickens, and the Friends must become channels for its diffusion. LG#834 (27 Jan. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...if it [the human spirit] is aided by the Holy Spirit, it will show great power; it will discover realities; it will be informed of the mysteries. Direct all the attention to the Holy Spirit, and call the attention of every soul to It. Then will you see wonderful signs. (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 85; Response, p. 52)

The greatest glory and honor which can come to an individual is to bring the light of guidance to some new soul. The quickening power of the Holy Spirit, which has come into the world through Baha'u'llah, is the source of immortal life; and those who are quickened by this spirit in this world will find themselves in great honor and glory in the next world. The most meritorious service which anyone could render is to bring the light of divine guidance and the quickening power of the spirit to an entirely new area. Humanity is crying for salvation; and it is only by the Baha'is going into the various areas of the world, that it can be brought to them. This is the reason the Guardian has encouraged all of the friends to disperse to new territories, for this is the hour for the quickening of the world. LG#1994 (11 Mar. 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Ye have found your place in the world that dieth not; the breaths of the Holy Spirit have blown upon you; ye have taken on another life, ye have gained access to the Threshold of God. SWAB#148 p176

Everyone must remember that it is the "Holy Spirit that quickens" and therefore the teacher must become like a reed through which the Holy Spirit may reach the seeking soul. COC#1995 (30 May 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Dedication to the heavenly task, complete consecration to the noble mission, and living the life, are the qualities needed for success in the teaching field. These virtues attract the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, and thus the individual becomes the reed through which that Holy Spirit may confirm the seeking souls. (30 Dec. 1953 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi) (1st sentence in HE.056)




As to your question concerning the Holy Spirit and its relationship to Baha'u'llah; the Holy Spirit may well be compared to the rays of the sun, and Baha'u'llah to a perfect mirror reflecting these rays which radiate from the sun. Briefly stated the comparison is this: God is the sun; the Holy Spirit is the rays of the sun; and Baha'u'llah is the mirror reflecting the rays of the sun. (23 Jul. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in BSB6:4-7:2, pp.112-113)

...there must be a Mediator between God and man, and this is none other than the Holy Spirit, which brings the created earth into relation with the 'Unthinkable One,' the divine Reality. The Divine Reality may be likened to the sun and the Holy Spirit to the rays of the sun.... The Holy Spirit is the Light from the Sun of Truth bringing, by its infinite power, life and illumination to all mankind, flooding all souls with Divine Radiance, conveying the blessings of God's Mercy to the whole world... PT#17:7-9 p058-059




The Holy Spirit itself hath been generated through the agency of a single letter revealed by this Most Great Spirit, if ye be of them that comprehend. WOB.109, SLH.1#050         In the passage you have quoted in the 'Suriy-i-Haykal' Baha'u'llah refers to His station of identity with God, to His reality which is Divine. In this passage it is really God speaking through Baha'u'llah. Baha'u'llah is not the intermediary between God and the other Manifestations, although these are under His shadow... (23 Jul. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in BSB6:4-7:2 p.112)

At this hour, so liberal is the outpouring of Its grace that the holy Spirit itself is envious! KI#064 p060




There are only four accepted criteria of comprehension, that is, four criteria whereby the realities of things are understood. The first criterion is that of the senses; that is, all that the eye, the ear, the taste, the smell, and the touch perceive is called "sensible". At present all the European philosophers hold this to be the most perfect criterion.... The second criterion is that of the intellect, which was the principal criterion of comprehension for those pillars of wisdom, the ancient philosophers.... The third criterion is that of tradition, that is, the text of the Sacred Scriptures, when it is said, "God said thus in the Torah", or "God said thus in the Gospel." This criterion is not perfect either, because the traditions must be understood by the mind.... But the grace of the Holy Spirit is the true criterion regarding which there is no doubt or uncertainty. That grace consists in the confirmations of the Holy Spirit which are vouchsafed to man and through which certitude is attained. SAQ#83.1-8 (was SAQ.297-299)

How shall we attain the reality of knowledge:  By the breaths and promptings of the Holy Spirit, which is light and knowledge itself. PUP.022

The aim of the theosophists is to attain to Truth, but the Truth is unattainable except through the favor of the Holy Spirit. The light hath a center, and if one desire to seek it otherwise than from the center, he can never attain unto it. TAB.592

Verily, the weakness of body and its strength do neither harm nor benefit; nay, rather the spirit must be strong through the breath of the Holy Spirit, at this time, so that it may apprehend the consummate wisdom which is deposited in this great age. TAB.219-220




In all the scriptures, the books and chronicles, the sentence of death, of fire, of blindness, of want of understanding and hearing, hath been pronounced against those whose lips have not tasted the ethereal cup of true knowledge, and whose hearts have been deprived of the grace of the holy Spirit in their day. KI#125 p118

...the holy reality--the true existence--of every great man proceeds from God and owes its being to the breath of the Holy Spirit. SAQ#18.4 (was SAQ.090)

Man cannot free himself from the onslaught of vain and selfish desires save through the confirming grace of the Holy Spirit. SAQ#19.7 (was SAQ.092)

God sent His Prophets into the world to teach and enlighten man, to explain to him the mystery of the Power of the Holy Spirit, to enable him to reflect the light, and so in his turn, to be the source of guidance to others. PT#18:6 p061

Today the greatest need of the world is the animating, unifying presence of the Holy Spirit.  Until it becomes effective, penetrating and interpenetrating hearts and spirits, and until perfect, reasoning faith shall be implanted in the minds of men, it will be impossible for the social body to be inspired with security and confidence. PUP.321

It has thus been made evident that the world of mankind is in need of the breaths of the Holy Spirit. Without the spirit the world of mankind is lifeless... SWAB#227 p303

Baha'u'llah teaches that the world of humanity is in need of the breath of the Holy Spirit, for in spiritual quickening and enlightenment true oneness is attained with God and man. PUP.108

The body of man is in need of physical and mental energy, but his spirit requires the life and fortification of the Holy Spirit.  Without its protection and quickening the human world would be extinguished. PUP.182

Certain spiritual attraction is requisite in order that hearts may willingly take the step forward in the divine Cause. We must become attracted to God. The breaths of the Holy Spirit must take effect. Unless this is so, it is impossible for the teachings of God to accomplish in us. An ideal power is necessary. PUP.250-251

The spirit of man is in need of the protection of the Holy Spirit.  Just as he advances by progressive stages from the mere physical world of being to the intellectual realm, so must he develop upward in moral attributes and spiritual graces.  In the process of this attainment he is ever in need of the bestowals of the Holy Spirit... Without the presence of the Holy Spirit he is lifeless. PUP.288

Deprived of the Holy Spirit and its bounties, man is spiritually dead. PUP.303

Unless the mirror reflects the sunlight, it is only dark, inanimate matter.  Likewise, the hearts and spirits of mankind, when deprived and without their portion of the bounties of the Holy Spirit, linger in the abyss of darkness and ignorance. PUP.313

If man does not become the recipient of the heavenly bestowals and spiritual bounties, he remains in the plane and kingdom of the animal.... the human soul is in need of the divine animus and vivification emanating from the Holy Spirit. PUP.316-317

...the human spirit or reality of man, unless it becomes the recipient of the lights of the Kingdom, develops divine susceptibilities and consciously reflects the effulgence of God, will not be the manifestation of ideal bounties, for only the reality of man can become the mirror wherein the lights of God are revealed. PUP.330

...the souls of men need the Sun of Truth to shed its rays upon their souls, to develop them, to educate and encourage them. As the sun is to the body of a man so is the Sun of Truth to his soul. PT#07:1 p031

Man, then, is in extreme need of the only Power by which he is able to receive help from the Divine Reality, that Power alone bringing him into contact with the Source of all life... the Holy Spirit is the very cause of the life of man; without the Holy Spirit he would have no intellect, he would be unable to acquire his scientific knowledge by which his great influence over the rest of creation is gained. PT#17:4 p058

It is only by the breath of the Holy Spirit that spiritual development can come about.... Deprived of the blessings of the Holy Spirit the material body would be inert. PT#40:35 p133

Baha'u'llah taught that hearts must receive the Bounty of the Holy Spirit, so that Spiritual civilization may be established... Material civilization is like the body and spiritual civilization is like the soul. Body without soul cannot live. AL.030

Without the intermediary of the Holy Spirit, man would remain dull, helpless and deprived of attainment. But touched by that Divine Elixir he becomes tender, loving, responsive, and capable of every perfection of existence. BSC#825 p.452

There is a wonderful power and strength which belongs to the human spirit, but it must receive confirmation from the Holy Spirit.... If it is aided by the bounty of the Holy Spirit, it will show great power, it will discover realities, it will be informed of the mysteries. SW v08#08 p097 (Abdu'l-Baha)

The moral world is only attained through the effulgence of the Sun of Reality and the quickening life of the divine spirit. For this reason the holy Manifestations of God appear in the human world. PUP.330

The human spirit possesseth wondrous powers, but it should be reinforced by the Holy Spirit. What thou hearest other than this is pure imagination. If, however, it [the human spirit] be assisted by the bounty of the Holy Spirit, then will its strength be a thing to marvel at. Then will that human spirit uncover realities, and unravel mysteries. Turn thy heart fully to the Holy Spirit, and invite others to do the same; then shall ye witness wonderful results. SWAB#139 p160

In the teachings of Baha'u'llah, it is written: 'By the Power of the Holy Spirit alone is man able to progress, for the power of man is limited and the Divine Power is boundless.' PT#51:1 p163

There is, however, another Spirit, which may be termed the Divine, to which Jesus Christ refers when He declares that man must be born of its quickening and baptized with its living fire. Souls deprived of that Spirit are accounted as dead, though they are possessed of the human spirit.... This quickening spirit emanates spontaneously from the Sun of Truth, from the reality of Divinity, and is not a revelation or a manifestation. It is like the rays of the sun. PUP.058-059

In the estimation of God, distinctions of race, divisions of borders, favoring one people over another, and all individual limitations are unworthy and rejected. All the prophets of God were sent down and all the sacred books were revealed for the purpose of assisting man to achieve this heavenly grace and this divine virtue. All the divine teachings can be summarized as this: that these thoughts singling out advantages to one group may be banished from our midst, that human character may be improved, that equality and fellowship may be established amongst all mankind, until every individual is ready to sacrifice himself for the sake of his fellowman. This is the divine foundation. This is the law come down from heaven. Such a firm foundation cannot be impregnated into human consciousness save by one universal and all-pervasive power, for every other power is helpless except for the power of the Holy Spirit. The outpourings of the Holy Spirit are such that they can transform man, imbuing him with all the virtues, bestowing upon him the second birth, baptizing him with the fire of the love of God, which is love for all created things, and quickening him with the water of eternal life, and the Holy Spirit itself. (provisional translation from a Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha, http://bahai-library.com/provisionals/tanazu.baqa.html)




Erelong will thy Lord's bounties descend upon thee, one following the other, and He will make of thee a sign for every seeker after truth. SWAB#009 p025

Make feet firm, strengthen hearts and rely upon the everlasting bounties which will successively pour on you from the Kingdom of El-Abha. TAB.002

Cling to this firm handle and make thy feet steady in this path, so that the bounties of thy Supreme Lord may successively pour upon thee and make thee a sign of His mighty knowledge. TAB.256

Verily I read thy recent letter and I praised God for His glorious mercy and His blessings which are successively poured into the pure hearts.  TAB.269

The radiance of the Manifestor of the Mount is illuminating all hearts and breasts and the never-ending bounties are successively (flowing) from the divine Kingdom. TAB.280

Ye shall see the hosts of inspiration descending successively from the Supreme World, the procession of attraction falling incessantly from the heights of heaven, the abundance of the Kingdom of El-Abha outpouring continually and the teachings of God penetrating with the utmost power, while the heedless are indeed in evident loss. TAB.443

Verily, I say unto thee, that if for the appearance of that Divine Essence thou desirest to have a definite proof, and indisputable testimony and a strong, convincing evidence, thou must prepare thyself to make thy heart empty and thine eye ready to look only toward the Kingdom of God.  Then, at that time, the radiance of that widespread effulgence will descend upon thee successively... TAB.705

The Spirit will come to you with increasing force, for your being must become as a Temple in which the Truth of God can dwell.... Your faith comes like rain; the first drops are far between, but soon it will pour in torrents....The knowledge of God rises in the heart like the sun; it mounts, mounts, always casting an immortal Light. You must be re-born by the Spirit. A child in the womb has eyes and ears, but only learns their use when it is born. A man cannot comprehend the Spirit before he has put aside earthly things. ... The Spirit resembles a rivulet when the earth fills the soul. Put away the terrestrial, and the Mighty Torrent of Living Water will rush through your freed body. BC#181 (Words of Abdu'l-Baha to Miss Barney, Oct. 19th to 24th, 1900)

During the days I lay in the prison of Tihran, though the galling weight of the chains and the stench-filled air allowed Me but little sleep, still in those infrequent moments of slumber I felt as if something flowed from the crown of My head over My breast, even as a mighty torrent that precipitateth itself upon the earth from the summit of a lofty mountain. Every limb of My body would, as a result, be set afire. At such moments My tongue recited what no man could bear to hear. ESW.022, Ruhi4.3.14

It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments; As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the LORD commanded the blessing, even life for evermore. Psalm 133:2-3

Mrs. Harrison asked what was the cause of the sensation often experienced by both of us which felt as if an essence were falling upon the top of the head, and a sensation flowing down around the face and on into the heart (she mentioned Aaron's beard [Psalm 133])--also like irrigation. Was it merely a physical sensation? Imaginary? Or wrong? Abdu'l-Baha: "No it is not a physical condition, but spiritual, a very high one which is so intense it reaches the nerves and these react upon the body. When one is spiritually developed, the body responds to spiritual conditions or emotions." (Pilgrim notes of Louise Waite, 12 Oct. 1909)

The power of the Holy Spirit is decending in torrents, and it only remains for the individual Baha'i to arise and serve and teach, in order to receive the confirmations from on High. (26 Sep. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The Divine Confirmations are descending in torrents on those who arise to teach. At this critical time in the history of the Faith, teaching is the one Baha'i service that is confirmed. COC#2301 (8 Aug. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Today the greatest need of the world is the animating, unifying presence of the Holy Spirit.  Until it becomes effective, penetrating and interpenetrating hearts and spirits, and until perfect, reasoning faith shall be implanted in the minds of men, it will be impossible for the social body to be inspired with security and confidence. PUP.321

This general, universal development is not possible through the power of philosophy. It is only attainable through the pervading influence of the Holy Spirit. PUP.206

The capacity for achieving extraordinary and praiseworthy progress is bestowed by Them through the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and heavenly civilization is not possible of attainment or accomplishment otherwise. PUP.375

The power of the Holy Spirit, enlightening man's intelligence, has enabled him to discover means of bending many natural laws to his will. PT#09:18 p037

the Holy Spirit is the very cause of the life of man; without the Holy Spirit he would have no intellect, he would be unable to acquire his scientific knowledge by which his great influence over the rest of creation is gained. The illumination of the Holy Spirit gives to man the power of thought... PT#17:10 p059

By the power of the Holy Spirit, working through his soul, man is able to perceive the Divine reality of things. All great works of art and science are witness to this power of the Spirit. The same Spirit gives Eternal Life. Those alone who are baptized by the Divine Spirit will be enabled to bring all peoples into the bond of unity. PT#28:7-9 p085

In the teachings of Baha'u'llah, it is written: 'By the Power of the Holy Spirit alone is man able to progress, for the power of man is limited and the Divine Power is boundless.' PT#51:1 p163

All Art is a gift of the Holy Spirit. When this light shines through the mind of a musician, it manifests itself in beautiful harmonies. Again, shining through the mind of a poet, it is seen in fine poetry and poetic prose. When the Light of the Sun of Truth inspires the mind of a painter, he produces marvellous pictures. These gifts are fulfilling their highest purpose, when showing forth the praise of God. (Quoted in compilation on The Importance of the Arts, from The Chosen Highway p.167, Ruhi7.3.2)

When you breathe forth the breath of the Holy Spirit from your hearts into the world, commerce and politics will take care of themselves in perfect harmony. All arts and sciences will become revealed and the knowledge of God will be manifested. SW v08#08 p103 (Waite-Harrison Notes, 12 Oct. 1909)

...the world of humanity must be confirmed by the breath of the Holy Spirit in order to receive universal education.  Through the infusion of divine power all nations and peoples become quickened, and universal happiness is possible. PUP.170

The third kind of education is that of the spirit.  Through the breaths of the Holy Spirit man is uplifted into the world of moralities and illumined by the lights of divine bestowals. PUP.330

You have the example in Peter who was assisted by the Holy Spirit, as have been all those who have enlightened humanity - for universal education can be accomplished only through the Holy Spirit. ADP.089

This spiritual education is made possible through the power of the Holy Spirit. As long as the breaths of the Holy Spirit do not display any influence, spiritual education is not obtained; whereas if a soul is inspired by the Holy Spirit he will be enabled to educate a nation. SW v08#08 p101 (Abdu'l-Baha, Asiatic Quarterly Review, Apr. 1913)

Its [the Word of God's] appearance in every mirror is conditioned by the color of the mirror. For instance, when its light is cast upon the mirrors of the hearts of the wise, it bringeth forth wisdom. In like manner when it manifesteth itself in the mirrors of the hearts of craftsmen, it unfoldeth new and unique arts, and when reflected in the hearts of those that apprehend the truth it revealeth wondrous tokens of true knowledge and discloseth the verities of God's utterance. (Baha'u'llah, in compilation on professions)

The greatest philosophers without this Spirit are powerless, their souls lifeless, their hearts dead! Unless the Holy Spirit breathes into their souls, they can do no good work.... Learned philosophers, unenlightened by the Divine Spirit, have often been men of inferior morality... The difference between spiritual philosophers and others is shown by their lives. PT#51:8 p165




Verily will the consummate power of the Divine Reality breathe into you the bounties of the Holy Spirit, and aid you to perform an exploit whose like the eye of creation hath never looked upon. SWAB#042 p085

Do not take into consideration your own aptitudes and capacities, but fix your gaze on the consummate bounty, the divine bestowal and the power of the Holy Spirit - the power that converteth the drop into a sea and the star into a sun. SWAB#068 p104, Ruhi7.2.29

We understand that the Holy Spirit is the energizing factor in the life of man. Whosoever receives this power is able to influence all with whom he comes into contact. PT#51:7 p165

The outpouring of the Holy Spirit changes the small acorn into an overshadowing tree and the showers of the heavenly clouds of mercy transform the black soil into a delectable rose-garden. SW v08#08 p103 (Abdu'l-Baha)

...the disciples were the weakest souls but through the breath of the Holy Spirit and the assistance of the Kingdom of God they became the strongest ones. SW v08#08 p104 (Abdu'l-Baha, Flowers from the Rose-Garden of Acca, p. 21)

The Friends must realize the Power of the Holy Spirit which is manifest and quickening them at this time through the appearance of Baha'u'llah. There is no force of heaven or earth which can affect them if they place themselves wholly under the influence of the Holy Spirit and under its guidance. LG#1766 (11 Aug. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




Today the greatest need of the world is the animating, unifying presence of the Holy Spirit.  Until it becomes effective, penetrating and interpenetrating hearts and spirits, and until perfect, reasoning faith shall be implanted in the minds of men, it will be impossible for the social body to be inspired with security and confidence. PUP.321

And this is clear: a power above and beyond the powers of nature must needs be brought to bear, to change this black darkness into light, and these endless wrangles and wars, into fellowship and love amongst all the peoples of the earth. This power is none other than the breathings of the Holy Spirit and the mighty inflow of the Word of God. SWAB#023 p053

...the promotion of the oneness of the kingdom of humanity, which is the essence of the teachings of all the Manifestations of God, is impossible except through the divine power and breaths of the Holy Spirit. Other powers are too weak and are incapable of accomplishing this. PUP.012

If all the powers of earth should seek to bring about this love between East and West, they would prove incapable.... But Baha'u'llah has accomplished both through the power of the Holy Spirit, and this bond of unity through love is indissoluble. PUP.037

May spiritual brotherhood cause rebirth and regeneration, for its creative quickening emanates from the breaths of the Holy Spirit and is founded by the power of God. PUP.130

The spiritual brotherhood which is enkindled and established through the breaths of the Holy Spirit unites nations and removes the cause of warfare and strife. PUP.142

There is another brotherhood - the spiritual - which is higher, holier and superior to all others.   It is heavenly; it emanates from the breaths of the Holy Spirit and the effulgence of merciful attributes... PUP.150

...no means but an ideal means, a spiritual power, divine bestowals and the breaths of the Holy Spirit will heal this world sickness of war, dissension and discord. Nothing else is possible; nothing can be conceived of. PUP.158

Another unity is the spiritual unity which emanates from the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  This is greater than the unity of mankind. PUP.191

The point is this: that to gain control over physical bodies is an extremely easy matter, but to bring spirits within the bonds of serenity is a most arduous undertaking. This is not the work of everybody.  It necessitates a divine and holy potency, the potency of inspiration, the power of the Holy Spirit. PUP.277

Just as the human spirit of life is the cause of coordination among the various parts of the human organism, the Holy Spirit is the controlling cause of the unity and coordination of mankind.  That is to say, the bond or oneness of humanity cannot be effectively established save through the power of the Holy Spirit, for the world of humanity is a composite body, and the Holy Spirit is the animating principle of its life. PUP.321

He has revealed His heavenly Books in order to establish spiritual brotherhood and through the power of the Holy Spirit has made it practicable for perfect fraternity and agreement to be realized among mankind. PUP.391

...the foundation of real brotherhood, the cause of loving cooperation and reciprocity and the source of real kindness and unselfish devotion is none other than the breaths of the Holy Spirit.... When human brotherhood is founded upon the Holy Spirit, it is eternal, changeless, unlimited. PUP.392

The Holy Spirit is the only power which will ultimately unite and harmonize the races and nations of the world. SW v08#08 p101 (diary of Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, 15 Jul. 1914)

The great unselfish love for humanity is bounded by none of these imperfect, semi-selfish bonds; this is the one perfect love, possible to all mankind, and can only be achieved by the power of the Divine Spirit. No worldly power can accomplish the universal love. PT#09:14 p037

The confirmations of the Holy Spirit are obtained by attractions of the hearts. Without these attractions, the former is unobtainable. (Pilgrim notes of Charles and Mariam Haney, A Heavenly Feast, Feb. 1909, pp. 28-29)

Know thou that all the powers combined have not the power to establish universal peace, nor to withstand the overmastering dominion, at every time and season, of these endless wars. Erelong, however, shall the power of heaven, the dominion of the Holy Spirit, hoist on the high summits the banners of love and peace, and there above the castles of majesty and might shall those banners wave in the rushing winds that blow out of the tender mercy of God. SWAB#146 p174

Universal peace is an impossibility through human and material agencies; it must be through spiritual power. There is need of a universal impelling force which will establish the oneness of humanity and destroy the foundations of war and strife. None other than the divine power can do this; therefore, it will be accomplished through the breath of the Holy Spirit. PUP.109

Unity amongst the friends brings the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, whereas inharmony kills the spirit and destroys all opportunities for successful work. (13 Oct. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
