



While praying it would be better to turn one's thoughts to the Manifestation as He continues, in the other world, to be our means of contact with the Almighty. We can, however, pray directly to God Himself. DND.067, LG#1488, COC#1764 (27 Apr. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

We cannot know God directly, but only through His Prophets. We can pray to Him, realizing that through His Prophets we know Him, or we can address our prayer in thought to Baha'u'llah, not as God, but as the Door to our knowing God. HE.071, LG#1490, LG#1699 (on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, date unnknown)

At the level of the contingent world, true worship is realized for those who worship God through Him and submerge themselves in the Sea of Absolute Unity. For in that Sea, the worshipper and the words of worship are annihilated, and thus there remaineth naught for the worshipper but the very revelation of God and the pure Countenance of the Beloved.... He who worshippeth God through any one but Him, by gazing at his own self as the Worshipper and at God as the Object of his worship, hath joined partners with God and hath never worshipped Him. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.251-252) http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/diglib/INBA/INBA069.pdf p.205:14

You have asked whether our prayers go beyond Baha'u'llah: it all depends whether we pray to Him directly or through Him to God. We may do both, and also can pray directly to God, but our prayers would certainly be more effective and illuminating if they are addressed to Him through His Manifestation, Baha'u'llah. Under no circumstances, however, can we, while repeating the prayers, insert the name Baha'u'llah where the word 'God' is used. This would be tantamount to a blasphemy. COC#1765 (14 Oct. 1937 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

In regard to your question: we must not be rigid about praying; there is not a set of rules governing it; the main thing is we must start out with the right concept of God, the Manifestation, the Master, the Guardian -- we can turn, in thought, to any one of them when we pray. For instance you can ask Baha'u'llah for something, or, thinking of Him, ask God for it. The same is true of the Master or the Guardian. You can turn in thought to either of them and then ask their intercession, or pray direct to God. As long as you don't confuse their stations, and make them all equal, it does not matter much how you orient your thoughts. LG#1486 (24 Jul. 1946 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

If you find you need to visualize someone when you pray, think of the Master. Through Him you can address Baha'u'llah. Gradually try to think of the qualities of the Manifestation, and in that way a mental form will fade out, for after all the body is not the thing, His Spirit is there and is the essential, everlasting element. LG#1493 (31 Jan. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




In the highest prayer, men pray only for the love of God, not because they fear Him or hell, or hope for bounty or heaven... When a man falls in love with a human being, it is impossible for him to keep from mentioning the name of his beloved. How much more difficult it is to keep from mentioning the Name of God when one has come to love Him... The spiritual man finds no delight in anything save in commemoration of God. BNE.105, LG#1512, COC#1756, Ruhi1.2.5 (Abdu'l-Baha)

...before every endeavour ... must we begin with prayer: not as though we would pull down to ourselves that Power which is nigh both everywhere and nowhere, but that, by these remembrances and invocations of God, we may commend and unite ourselves thereto. (Pseudo-Dionysius, in Rolt p.82-83)

Although you seem to feel that your prayers have not so far been answered, and do no longer have any hope that your material conditions will ameliorate, the Guardian wishes you nevertheless not to allow such disappointments to undermine your faith in the power of prayer, but rather to continue entreating the Almighty to enable you to discover the great wisdom which may be hidden behind all these sufferings. For are not our sufferings often blessings in disguise, through which God wishes to test the sincerity and depth of our faith, and thereby make us firmer in His Cause? The true worshipper, while praying, should endeavour not so much to ask God to fulfill his wishes and desires, but rather to adjust these and make them conform to the Divine Will. Only through such an attitude can one derive that feeling of inner peace and contentment which the power of prayer alone can confer. COC#1768 (26 Oct. 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Prayers are granted through the universal Manifestations of God. Nevertheless, where the wish is to obtain material things, even where the heedless are concerned, if they supplicate, humbly imploring God's help--even their prayer hath an effect.... ...the Holy Essence of the Lord God is boundless, immeasurable, but His graces and splendours become finite in the creatures, because of their limitations, wherefore the prayers of given persons will receive favourable answers in certain cases.... If healing is right for the patient, it will certainly be granted; but for some ailing persons, healing would only be the cause of other ills, and therefore wisdom doth not permit an affirmative answer to the prayer. SWAB#139 p161-162

The true basis of prayer is for the individual to hold himself as a reed, through which the Holy Spirit may flow. His will should be completely submissive to the Will of God. When this is done, then the Hosts of the Unseen Kingdom have an opportunity to assist and direct the individual. Thus it may be seen that sometimes the answer is not what is expected by the individual, but what is best for the Cause of God. The Guardian has so often pointed out that there are three elements of prayer -- meditation, supplication and action. It is most important that an individual act, because it is only while the individual is acting that a prayer can be answered. (31 Dec. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




It hath been ordained that obligatory prayer is to be performed by each of you individually. Save in the Prayer for the Dead, the practice of congregational prayer hath been annulled. KA#12 Congregational prayer, in the sense of formal obligatory prayer which is to be recited in accordance with a prescribed ritual as, for example, is the custom in Islam where Friday prayer in the mosque is led by an imam, has been annulled in the Baha'i Dispensation. The Prayer for the Dead (see note 10) is the only congregational prayer prescribed by Baha'i law. It is to be recited by one of those present while the remainder of the party stands in silence; the reader has no special status. The congregation is not required to face the Qiblih (Q and A 85). (note to paragraph #12) [see Persian Bayan 9:9 for precedent]

In answering a similar from the National Spiritual Assembly of Uganda and Central Africa about congregation singing in services at the House of Worship we said: "Singing by a congregation present at a service in the House of Worship should not be confused with congregational prayer prescribed by Baha'u'llah for the dead..." LG#1366 (from a letter of the Universal House of Justice in 1973)

You have asked whether it is permissible for the friends to chant a prayer collectively. There is a difference between chanting a prayer collectively and congregational prayer. The latter is a formal prayer usually led by an individual using a prescribed ritual. Congregational prayer in this form is forbidden in the Faith except in the case of the Prayer for the Dead. While reciting prayers in unison and spontaneously joining in the recitation of the Words of God is not forbidden, the friends should bear in mind the advice of the beloved Guardian on this subject when he stated that: "...although the friends are thus left free to follow their own inclination,... they should take the utmost care that any manner they practice should not acquire too rigid a character, and thus develop into an institution. This is a point which the friends should always bear in mind, lest they deviate from the clear path indicated in the Teachings." LG#150 (6 Feb. 1975 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)
