



Consider now, were the parched and barren soil of these hearts to remain unchanged, how could they ever become the Recipients of the revelation of the mysteries of God, and the Revealers of the divine Essence? Thus hath he said: 'On the day when the earth shall be changed into another earth.' KI#049 p047

...this Elixir ... in one fleeting breath, causeth the west of ignorance to reach the east of knowledge, ... guideth the wanderer in the wilderness of doubt to the well-spring of the Divine Presence and Fount of certitude... KI#167 p158

...is not the object of every Revelation to effect a transformation in the whole character of mankind, a transformation that shall manifest itself both outwardly and inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external conditions? For if the character of mankind be not changed, the futility of God's universal Manifestation would be apparent. KI#272 p240-241, WOB.025

I beg of Thee, O my God, by Thy most exalted Word which thou hast ordained as the Divine Elixir unto all who are in Thy realm, the Elixir through whose potency the crude metal of human life hath been transmuted into purest gold... PM#038 p054

Without the intermediary of the Holy Spirit, man would remain dull, helpless and deprived of attainment. But touched by that Divine Elixir he becomes tender, loving, responsive, and capable of every perfection of existence. BSC#825 p.452

Love is, indeed, a most potent elixir that can transform the vilest and meanest of people into heavenly souls. LG#741 (6 Dec. 1935 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is evident that nothing short of this mystic transformation could cause such spirit and behaviour, so utterly unlike their previous habits and manners, to be made manifest in the world of being.... Such is the potency of the Divine Elixir, which, swift as the twinkling of an eye, transmuteth the souls of men!... these souls, through the potency of the Divine Elixir, traverse, in the twinkling of an eye, the world of dust and advance into the realm of holiness... KI#164 p156-157

No more than a mere handful, however, hath been found willing to cleave to His Cause, or to become the instruments for its promotion. These few have been endued with the Divine Elixir that can, alone, transmute into purest gold the dross of the world, and have been empowered to administer the infallible remedy for all the ills that afflict the children of men. GWB#092 p183

The sanctified souls should ponder and meditate in their hearts regarding the methods of teaching. From the texts of the wondrous, heavenly Scriptures they should memorize phrases and passages bearing on various instances, so that in the course of their speech they may recite divine verses whenever the occasion demandeth it, inasmuch as these holy verses are the most potent elixir, the greatest and mightiest talisman. TB.200, Ruhi6.1.24

...relate thou the Teachings of the Abha Beauty to the urgent needs of this present day, and thou wilt see that they provide an instant remedy for the ailing body of the world. Indeed, they are the elixir that bringeth eternal health. SWAB#029 p059

...His everlasting grace will ... transmute the stone into a ruby of great price, and fill the sea shells with brilliant pearls. (Abdu'l-Baha, from a Tablet, in Compilation on Women, #100, p. 37)

The power of God can entirely transmute our characters and make of us beings entirely unlike our previous selves. (22 Nov. 1941 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in compilation on the importance of prayer, meditation and the devotional attitude, p. 15)

The elixir frequently appears in the Bab's writings as a mystical symbol representing absolute actualization: the stage of the realization of truth, which is the realization of the Supreme Origin and End at the level of phenomenal being... It is by virtue of this perfect self-realization that the elixir can attain ascendancy over other things and is the catalyst which enables them to realize their latent qualities. Since the sign of God is present within all beings, a trace of the elixir exists within all things. The early writings of the Bab refer to His station as the station of the "true Elixir". (N. Saidei, in GOH.105)
