



Whosoever wisheth, let him turn thereunto; whosoever wisheth, let him turn away. God, verily, is independent of him and of that which he may see and witness. KI#023 p023

With faces beaming with joy, hasten ye unto Him. This is the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the future. Let him that seeketh, attain it; and as to him that hath refused to seek it--verily, God is Self-Sufficient, above any need of His creatures. KA#182; GWB#070 p136

Consider the mercy of God and His gifts. He enjoineth upon you that which shall profit you, though He Himself can well dispense with all creatures. Your evil doings can never harm Us, neither can your good works profit Us. We summon you wholly for the sake of God. GWB#072 p140, KA#059

Say: Think ye that your allegiance to His Cause can ever profit Him, or your repudiation of its truth cause Him any loss? No, by My Self, the All-Subduing, the Inaccessible, the Most High! GWB#121 p258

The one true God, exalted be His glory, hath wished nothing for Himself. The allegiance of mankind profiteth Him not, neither doth its perversity harm Him. The Bird of the Realm of Utterance voiceth continually this call: "All things have I willed for thee, and thee, too, for thine own sake." GWB#122 p260

The tie of servitude established between the worshiper and the adored One, between the creature and the Creator, should in itself be regarded as a token of His gracious favor unto men, and not as an indication of any merit they may possess. To this testifieth every true and discerning believer. GWB#094 p193-194, Ruhi7.2.21

There are three types of freedom. The first is divine freedom, which is one of the inherent attributes of the Creator for He is unconstrained in His will, and no one can force Him to change His decree in any matter whatsoever... (Abdu'l-Baha, quoted in letter dated 8 Feb. 1998 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, in Issues Related to the Study of the Baha'i Faith)




Therefore observe that although all letters and words appear from the point and all numbers from the unitary concept, neither does the primal point descend from its high station nor does the unitary concept [ahad] come down from its abode of sanctity. Such is the station of the Hidden Treasure well-known and sung out by the Birds that dwell in the Rose-garden of Oneness and trilled by the Nightingales of the flowering fields of detachment [tajrid]. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.11, MKT2:009)

And similarly consider the Unitary Concept [ahad]; how all the numbers appear from it and it is in no number since it is the point of origin of all numbers. And the first to be specified and to appear from it is the number "one" [wahid] and from "one" all other numbers come into being. So all these numbers are contained in the unitary concept in the most perfect simplicity and oneness. And so it is the "Hidden Treasure" of all numbers and from it do they appear. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.11, MKT2:008-009)

And that essence of ahadiyah, in that most great station in which it is said: 'There was God and there was naught else besides Him', is called by the names: the Hidden Treasure, the Hidden Ipseity [Huwiyyat], the Absolute Unity, Pure Essence [dhat], Absolute Non-specificity, the Hidden of the Hidden, the Primal Mystery, the Absolute Unknown, the Indescribable One, the Undiscoverable One and other Names. ...the reality of this station is such that no likeness can be made to that Essence of ahadiyah for It is above all reasoning and understanding and is greater than anything which may be likened or compared to it. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.9, MKT2:007)

...consider the point; how letters and words are folded up and hidden within the essence (huwiyyat) and reality of a point with perfect effacement and annihilation so that no trace can be discerned of the existence of these letters and words nor is there any differentiation between them. Rather they are completely obliterated and utterly annihilated and have no existence except in the essence (dhat) of the point. In the same way the names and attributes of God and the essential states [shu'unat dhatiyya] are completely and utterly annihilated in the station of ahadiyah so that not a whiff can be inhaled from them of either actual or conceptual existence. This original point is the 'Hidden Treasure' of these letters and words and they were incorporated and immersed within it and from it they appeared. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.10, MKT2:008)

I was a Hidden Treasure. I wished [loved] to be made known, and thus I called creation into being in order that I might be known. KA#176 note 23 (from a Hadith)

Thou didst wish to make Thyself known unto men; therefore, Thou didst, through a word of Thy mouth, bring creation into being and fashion the universe. PM#004 p006

Indeed He was a hidden treasure. This is a station that can never be described nor even alluded to. And in the station of 'I did wish to make Myself known', God was, and His creation had ever existed beneath His shelter from the beginning that hath no beginning, apart from its being preceded by a Firstness which cannot be regarded as a firstness and originated by a Cause inscrutable even unto all men of learning. TB.140

...before the kindling and manifestation of the fire of Primal Unity by itself and for itself, the totality of the manifestations are within the Invisible Essence. This is the station of the 'Hidden Treasure'. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.33, MKT2:050)

To begin with, let us recall the hadith which all our mystics of Islam untiringly meditate, the hadith in which the Godhead reveals the secret of His passion (his pathos): 'I was a hidden Treasure and I yearned to be known. Then I created creatures in order to be known by them.'... This divine passion, this desire to reveal Himself and to know Himself in beings through being known by them, is the motive underlying an entire divine dramaturgy, and eternal cosmogony. This cosmogony is neither an Emanation in the Neoplatonic sense of the word nor, still less, a creatio ex nihilo. It is rather a succession of manifestations of being, brought about by an increasing light, within the originally undifferentiated God; it is a succession of tajalliyat, of theophanies. (H. Corbin, Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 114)

In the [Arabic] language 'Ama' denoteth a very light and subtle cloud, which is seen and then not seen. Thus by close investigation thou wilt see something, but it will not be seen by mere observation. For this reason, in the usage of the mystic knowers, 'Ama' signifieth the Universal reality without individuations, for individuations exist in the mode of simplicity (bisatah) and unity (wahidiyah). They are not differentiated from the Essence when it becomes individualized. They refer to this stage by the terms Ahadiyah [undifferentiated oneness] and 'Ama'. This is the degree of the 'Hidden Treasure' mentioned in the hadith, for attributes are individuations existing in the Essence but not differentiated from it. They are seen and then not seen. This, in brief, is what is meant by 'Ama'. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Asraru'l-Athar 4:394)

Within the Hidden Essence, the stirrings of love and the inner yearnings [mayi-i dhati] necessitated Perfect Burnishing and Clarification (and the phrase 'Perfect Burnishing' among some of the mystic knowers is the manifesting of the Absolute to Itself in the archetypal forms [a'yan] and the word 'Clarification' is the gazing by the Unconditioned Beauty upon the effulgences of Its own Beauty in the mirrors of Realities and Forms). Therefore the Essential Dispositions have, through the Divine Outpouring (fayd-i-aqdas), manifested themselves out of the station of Essence into the station of Divine Knowledge [hadrat-i 'ilm]. This is the first manifestation of the Absolute from the Hidden Treasure in the Divine Knowledge. And from this manifestation the Eternal Archetypes ('ayan thabitah) came into intellectual being. And each one, according to its inherent capacity, is distinguished from the others in the mirrors of the Divine Knowledge. And this secondary station is set up along the lines of the first stage, the stage of the Mystery of Primary Oneness (ahadiyah). And this [second] stage is known as the Secondary Unknown, Manifested Oneness (wahidiyah) and the Eternal Archetypes. And the Eternal Archetypes are the Forms of the Divine intellect, which have not inhaled the breezes of existence but have come into being as intellectual existences [within the Divine Consciousness]. And they have become distinct from each other. And this secondary stage is also called the Hidden Treasure because the Archetypes and Realities which are the objects of the knowledge [ma'lumat] of the Absolute in the mirror of Divine Knowledge, are also incorporated in the Essence [of the Absolute] in the utmost state of concealment and of simplicity and oneness. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:009-010. Cf. K. Brown's translation in his paper on Originality of Species: "Inasmuch as the movement of love and essential yearning in the Hidden Being necessitated perfect burnishing and clarification (and 'perfect burnishing' in the opinion of some of the mystic knowers is the manifestation of the True One to himself in the forms of the archetypes, and 'clarification' is the gazing of the Absolute Beauty upon the effulgences of his own beauty in the mirrors of realities and archetypes), the essential states became manifested through the most holy outpouring (fayd-i-aqdas) from the station of the Essence into the station of the divine knowledge... And this stage is expressed as the secondary unknown, conferred oneness (wahidiyah), and the station of the permanent archetypes. These permanent archetypes are the forms of the divine knowledge which have not yet inhaled the fragrance of actual existence.")

God said: I was a hidden treasure and desired to be known, therefore, I created the universe. I created it not out of nothingness but through self-emanation; my breath became [the] creative word of command, logos (see Evangile of John, introduction), which resulted in form and figure. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 3)

Say: God hath made My hidden love the key to the Treasure; would that ye might perceive it! But for the key, the Treasure would to all eternity have remained concealed; would that ye might believe it! Say: This is the Source of Revelation, the Dawning-place of Splendour, Whose brightness hath illumined the horizons of the world. Would that ye might understand! KA#015

And when the blessed Tree is kindled by itself within itself, and that Divine Fire burneth by its essence [dhat] within its essence, this is the stage of 'I wished to be made known'. KA n.023; quoting 'Abdu'l-Baha in MKT2:050.

There is a particular reason why the concept of Love plays such an important role in Ibn 'Arabi's thought. Its importance is due to the existence of an explicit statement put in the mouth of God Himself in a famous Tradition which may be considered the starting-point, the basis, and the very gist of his philosophy: 'I was a hidden treasure, and I desired (ahbabtu, 'loved') to be known. Accordingly I created the creatures and thereby made Myself known to them. And they did come to know Me.' As this Tradition tells us with utmost clarity, Love (hubb) is the principle which moved the Absolute toward the creation of the world. It is, in this sense, the 'secret of creation' (sirr al-khalq) or the 'cause of creation' ('illah al-khalq).... In the eyes of those who know the truth, all phenomena of movement, on all levels of Being, are caused by 'love'. If it were not for the activity of 'love', everything would remain in the state of eternal rest, i.e., non-movement. And non-movement (sukun) means nothing other than non-existence ('adam). (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 136)

The most basic and primary movement was the movement of the world from the state of non-existence (i.e., the archetypal state), in which it had been reposing, into the state of existence. This is the reason why it is said that the reality of existence is a movement from the state of repose. And the movement which is coming into existence of the world is a movement of Love. This is clearly indicated by the Apostle when he says (conveying God's own words): 'I was a hidden treasure, and I loved to be known.' If it were not for this love, the world would never have appeared in this concrete existence. In this sense, the movement of the world toward existence was a movement of Love which brought it into existence. (Ibn 'Arabi, In Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, pp. 136-137. Cf. Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, pp. 104-105)




I was a Hidden Treasure. I wished [loved] to be made known, and thus I called creation into being in order that I might be known. KA#176 note 23 (from a Hadith)

To begin with, let us recall the hadith which all our mystics of Islam untiringly meditate, the hadith in which the Godhead reveals the secret of His passion (his pathos): 'I was a hidden Treasure and I yearned to be known. Then I created creatures in order to be known by them.'... This divine passion, this desire to reveal Himself and to know Himself in beings through being known by them, is the motive underlying an entire divine dramaturgy, and eternal cosmogony. This cosmogony is neither an Emanation in the Neoplatonic sense of the word nor, still less, a creatio ex nihilo. It is rather a succession of manifestations of being, brought about by an increasing light, within the originally undifferentiated God; it is a succession of tajalliyat, of theophanies. (H. Corbin, Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 114)

God said: I was a hidden treasure and desired to be known, therefore, I created the universe. I created it not out of nothingness but through self-emanation; my breath became [the] creative word of command, logos (see Evangile of John, introduction), which resulted in form and figure. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 3)

There is a particular reason why the concept of Love plays such an important role in Ibn 'Arabi's thought. Its importance is due to the existence of an explicit statement put in the mouth of God Himself in a famous Tradition which may be considered the starting-point, the basis, and the very gist of his philosophy: 'I was a hidden treasure, and I desired (ahbabtu, 'loved') to be known. Accordingly I created the creatures and thereby made Myself known to them. And they did come to know Me.' As this Tradition tells us with utmost clarity, Love (hubb) is the principle which moved the Absolute toward the creation of the world. It is, in this sense, the 'secret of creation' (sirr al-khalq) or the 'cause of creation' ('illah al-khalq).... In the eyes of those who know the truth, all phenomena of movement, on all levels of Being, are caused by 'love'. If it were not for the activity of 'love', everything would remain in the state of eternal rest, i.e., non-movement. And non-movement (sukun) means nothing other than non-existence ('adam). (Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, p. 136)

Concerning the Tablet of the Master explaining one of the doctrines of Sufism, which He revealed during His youth at the demand of Ali Shawka Pasha: this is published in the second volume of His Tablets published in Egypt. Unfortunately it has not been translated into English. It is an epistle of about fifty pages, otherwise I would have attempted to translate it for you. It is not however very important from a Baha'i point of view for He says at the end that His object was merely to state the Sufi view and not to criticize it in the light of the Baha'i teachings. Moreover, the task would be very difficult for I am unfamiliar with the terminology used. It needs a scholar on Sufism to render the Tablet into English. (18 Jan. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Messages to Canada, pp. 34-35)




Consider then how the peoples of the world are circling round their own vain imaginings and worshipping the idols of their own thoughts and fancies, without the least awareness of doing so. They regard these vain imaginings as that Reality which is sanctified above all understanding and exalted beyond every allusion. They consider themselves to be the proponents of the Divine Unity and all others as worshippers of idols, even though idols at least enjoy a mineral existence, whereas the idols of human thoughts and imaginations are sheer illusion and have not even the existence of stones. SAQ#37.10 (was SAQ.149)

People speak of Divinity, but the ideas and beliefs they have of Divinity are, in reality, superstition. Divinity is the effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the manifestation of spiritual virtues and ideal powers. PUP.326

The pictures of Divinity that come to our mind are the product of our fancy; they exist in the realm of our imagination. They are not adequate to the Truth; truth in its essence cannot be put into words. Divinity cannot by comprehended because it is comprehending. AL.022

In this day all people are worshippers of idle fancies, for they conceive a god in the realm of imagination and worship him. Thus, if you were to ask someone who is engaged in prayer: "Whom are you worshipping?" he would say: "God." "What God?" "God as I imagine Him." Whereas that which is in his imagination is not God. All people are therefore worshippers of their own thoughts and fancies. SAQ#089.2
