



How vast the number of people who are well versed in every science, yet it is their adherence to the holy Word of God which will determine their faith, inasmuch as the fruit of every science is none other than the knowledge of divine precepts and submission unto His good-pleasure. SWB.088

From among all created things He hath singled out for His special favor the pure, the gem-like reality of man, and invested it with a unique capacity of knowing Him and of reflecting the greatness of His glory. This twofold distinction conferred upon him hath cleansed away from his heart the rust of every vain desire... GWB#034 p077-078

I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me to know Thee ('irfanika) and to worship Thee ('ibadatika). I testify, at this moment, to my powerlessness and to Thy might, to my poverty and to Thy wealth. PM#180 p313, Ruhi2.2.2, Ruhi6.3.17

The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition [irfan] of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His Cause and the world of creation. Whoso achieveth this duty hath attained unto all good; and whoso is deprived thereof hath gone astray, though he be the author of every righteous deed.[1] It behoveth every one who reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Source of Divine inspiration. KA#001, GWB#155 p330-331, Ruhi4.3.28, Ruhi3a.1.2, Ruhi7.1.6 [1] "The meaning of this blessed verse is that the foundation of success and salvation is the recognition of God, and that good deeds, which are the fruit of faith, derive from this recognition." SAQ#65.2 (was SAQ.238)

The beginning of all things is the knowledge (irfan) of God, and the end of all things is strict observance of whatsoever hath been sent down from the empyrean of the Divine Will that pervadeth all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth. GWB#002 p005, Ruhi3a.L15

A twofold obligation resteth upon him who hath recognized the Day Spring of the Unity of God, and acknowledged the truth of Him Who is the Manifestation of His oneness. The first is steadfastness in His love, such steadfastness that neither the clamor of the enemy nor the claims of the idle pretender can deter him from cleaving unto Him Who is the Eternal Truth... The second is strict observance of the laws He hath prescribed--laws which He hath always ordained, and will continue to ordain, unto men, and through which the truth may be distinguished and separated from falsehood. GWB#133 p289-290

The first and foremost duty prescribed unto men, next to the recognition of Him Who is the Eternal Truth, is the duty of steadfastness in His Cause. GWB#134 p290, Ruhi2.2.2

...by Paradise is meant recognition of and submission unto Him Whom God shall make manifest... SWB.082-083, Ruhi4.3.4

To 'get to heaven' as you say is dependent on two things - faith in the Manifestation of God in His Day, in other words in this Age in Baha'u'llah; and good deeds, in other words living to the best of our ability a noble life and doing unto others as we would be done by. But we must always remember that our existence and everything we have or ever will have is dependent upon the Mercy of God and His Bounty, and therefore He can accept into His heaven, which is really nearness to Him, even the lowliest if He pleases. We always have the hope of receiving His Mercy if we reach out for it. LG#705 (12 Jan. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Although a person of good deeds is acceptable at the Threshold of the Almighty, yet it is first 'to know', and then 'to do.'... By faith is meant, first, conscious knowledge (danistan), and second, the practice of good deeds. TAB.549, Ruhi7.1.7; Muntakhabati az Makatib-i-Hadrat-i-'Abdu'l-Baha, vol. 3, p. 99

One's conduct must be like the conduct of Paul, and one's faith similar to that of Peter. SWAB#189 p223-224

To accept the Messenger of God in His Day and to abide by His bidding are the two essential, inseparable duties which each soul was created to fulfil. One exercises these twin duties by one's own choice, and by so doing performs an act which may be regarded as the highest expression of free will with which every human being is endowed by an all-loving Creator. M86-01 145.12 (26 Nov. 1992 from the Universal House of Justice)

To accept the Prophet of God in His time and to abide by His bidding are the two essential, inseparable duties which each soul was created to fulfill. One exercises these twin duties by one's own choice, an act constituting the highest expression of the free will with which every human being has been endowed by an all-loving Creator. M86-01 60.5 (29 Dec. 1988 from the Universal House of Justice)

The cause of eternal glory to man is faith and certainty and then living (or acting) according to the behests of His Majesty the Eternal God. My hope is that thou wilt attain to the three. TAB.667




From among all created things He hath singled out for His special favor the pure, the gem-like reality of man, and invested it with a unique capacity of knowing Him and of reflecting the greatness of His glory. This twofold distinction conferred upon him hath cleansed away from his heart the rust of every vain desire... GWB#034 p077-078




Briefly, good deeds become perfect and complete only after the knowledge of God has been acquired, the love of God has been manifested, and spiritual attractions and goodly motives have been attained. Otherwise, though good deeds be praiseworthy, if they do not spring from the knowledge of God, from the love of God, and from a sincere intention, they will be imperfect. SAQ#84.7 (was SAQ.302)

The beginning of all things is the knowledge (irfan) of God, and the end of all things is strict observance of whatsoever hath been sent down from the empyrean of the Divine Will that pervadeth all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth. GWB#002 p005, Ruhi3a.L15

Although a person of good deeds is acceptable at the Threshold of the Almighty, yet it is first 'to know', and then 'to do.'... By faith is meant, first, conscious knowledge (danistan), and second, the practice of good deeds. TAB.549, Ruhi7.1.7; Muntakhabati az Makatib-i-Hadrat-i-'Abdu'l-Baha, vol. 3, p. 99

...good deeds alone, without the recognition of God, cannot lead to eternal redemption, to everlasting success and salvation, and to admittance into the Kingdom of God. SAQ#65.4 (was SAQ.238)

...actions alone are not sufficient: They are a body of the greatest beauty, but without a spirit. No, that which leads to everlasting life, eternal honour, universal enlightenment, and true success and salvation is, first and foremost, the knowledge [irfan] of God.... Second comes the love of God. The light of this love is kindled, through the knowledge of God, in the lamp of the heart, and its spreading rays illumine the world and bestow upon man the life of the Kingdom.... The third virtue of humanity is goodly intention, which is the foundation of all good deeds.... Briefly, good deeds become perfect and complete only after the knowledge of God has been acquired, the love of God has been manifested, and spiritual attractions and goodly motives have been attained. Otherwise, though good deeds be praiseworthy, if they do not spring from the knowledge of God, from the love of God, and from a sincere intention, they will be imperfect. SAQ#84.2-7 (was SAQ.300-302)

In former times men either became believers, or else they became enemies of the cause of God.... Faith consisted in the blind acceptance of these truths and those who accepted were considered saved, the rest were doomed to perdition. But in this day the question is far more important. Faith does not consist in belief, it consists in deeds. It is not sufficient to believe in Baha'u'llah and to say, 'I am of the people of El-Abha'; we must act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah, who commands us to become centers of divine attraction, so that the attributes of God may emanate from us, that we may become wise and well intentioned to all the peoples of the earth in order to better the condition of all. ADP.041

The beginning of all utterance is the worship of God, and this followeth upon His recognition. TU.3#04

Take good heed of yourselves, for the sum total of the religion of God is but to help Him, rather than to observe, in the time of His appearance, such deeds as are prescribed in the Bayan. SWB.085

Wherefore it is incumbent upon all Baha'is to ponder this very delicate and vital matter in their hearts, that, unlike other religions, they may not content themselves with the noise, the clamor, the hollowness of religious doctrine. Nay, rather they should exemplify in every aspect of their lives those attributes and virtues that are born of God and should arise to distinguish themselves by their goodly behaviour. They should justify their claim to be Baha'is by deeds and not by name.... For in this holy Dispensation, the crowning glory of bygone ages and cycles, true faith is no mere acknowledgement of the unity of God, but rather the living of a life that will manifest all the perfections and virtues implied in such belief. ('Abdu'l-Baha, in The Baha'i World, vol. 1, p. 12; MKT4.050)
