



Consider the sun. Were it to say now, 'I am the sun of yesterday,' it would speak the truth. And should it, bearing the sequence of time in mind, claim to be other than that sun, it still would speak the truth. KI#020 p020, GWB#013 p022

These Manifestations of God have each a twofold station. One is the station of pure abstraction and essential unity.... The other station is the station of distinction, and pertaineth to the world of creation, and to the limitations thereof. KI#161 p152, KI#191 p176, GWB#022 p050-052

By virtue of this station they have claimed for themselves the Voice of Divinity and the like, whilst by virtue of their station of Messengership, they have declared themselves the Messengers of God. In every instance they have voiced an utterance that would conform to the requirements of the occasion, and have ascribed all these declarations to Themselves... KI#198 p181, GWB#022 p055-056

The sanctified realities of the Manifestations of God have two spiritual stations: One is that of the state of divine manifestation (mazhariyyat), which can be compared to the orb of the sun, and the other is that of radiance and revelation, which may be likened to the divine light and perfections--the Holy Spirit. SAQ#31.2 (was SAQ.127)

The Manifestations of God are like so many different mirrors, as They each have Their own distinct individuality, but that which is reflected in these mirrors is one and the same sun. SAQ#39.4 (was SAQ.155)

When I contemplate, O my God, the relationship that bindeth me to Thee, I am moved to proclaim to all created things 'verily I am God'; and when I consider my own self, lo, I find it coarser than clay! WOB.113

Men have failed to perceive Our purpose in the references We have made to Divinity and Godhood.... The Seal of the Prophets - may the souls of all else but Him be offered up for His sake - saith: 'Manifold are Our relationships with God. At one time, We are He Himself, and He is We Ourself. At another He is that He is, and We are that We are.' ESW.043

Unto this subtle, this mysterious and ethereal Being He hath assigned a twofold nature; the physical, pertaining to the world of matter, and the spiritual, which is born of the substance of God Himself.[1] He hath, moreover, conferred upon Him a double station. The first station, which is related to His innermost reality, representeth Him as One Whose voice is the voice of God Himself.... The second station is the human station... GWB#027 p066-067     [1] "'Gleanings' page 66 -- The spiritual nature referred to in that passage is itself the Primal Emanation which is born of the Substance of God." From a letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 6 Sep. 1937.

Know verily that whenever this Youth turneth His eyes towards His own self, he findeth it the most insignificant of all creation. When He contemplates, however, the bright effulgences He hath been empowered to manifest, lo, that self is transfigured before Him into a sovereign Potency permeating the essence of all things visible and invisible. GWB#049 p102

The Holy Manifestations of God possess two stations: one is the physical station, and one the spiritual. In other words, one station is that of a human being, and one, of the Divine Reality. SWAB#026 p055

...one person envisages the Unseen, the Transcendent, the Inaccessible One (God; ghayb-i-mani' la yudrak) in the Person (haykal) of the Manifestation (of God; zuhur) without making any distinction (fasl; or division) or connection (between them; wasl/union). Others there are who recognize the Person (haykal) of the Manifestation as the Appearance of God ([Himself] or theophany, zuhur'u'llah) and consider the commands and prohibitions of the Manifestation to be identical with such as originate with the One True God. These two positions (maqam) are both acceptable before the throne of God. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Jamal, Iqtidarat, pp.218-232; in response to a question put to Baha'u'llah by Persian believers regarding His true station)

No distinction can be made amongst the Prophets in the sense that They all proceed from One Source, and are of One Essence. But Their stations and functions in this world are different. LG#1552 (19 Oct. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Concerning the question: "Which of these creeds is acceptable and which of these leaders is to be preferred?", this is the station wherein the following blessed words shine resplendent as the sun: "No distinction do We make between any of the Messengers," while the verse "Some of the Apostles We have caused to excel the others" pertaineth to the other station of which We have already made mention. TU.2#04

Thus, should the mirrored Sun proclaim, "I am the Sun!" this is but truth; and should It cry, "I am not the Sun!" this is the truth as well. SWAB#021 p050

Verily the Point possesseth two stations. One is the station that speaketh from God. The other is the station that speaketh from that which is other than God, a station whereby He expresseth His servitude for the former station... He is the possessor of two signs, that of God and that of creation, and through the latter he worshippeth God and boweth in adoration before Him. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.046)

These Supreme Holy Souls are Godlike in their attributes. The garments in which they appear are different, but the attributes are the same. In their real intrinsic power they show forth the Perfection of God. The Reality of God in them never varies; only the garment in which the Primal Reality is clothed is different according to the time and place of their Appearance and Declaration to the world. One Day it is the garment of Abraham, then Moses, then Jesus, then Baha'u'llah. Knowledge of this Oneness is true Enlightenment. (Pilgrim notes of Julia Grundy, Ten Days in the Light of Akka, p. 30)

God hath ordained two stations for the Sun of Truth: the unseen station, where naught is seen in the Will save God, and the manifest station, where naught is seen in It except the Primal Will.... (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.184)




There can be no doubt that the claim to the twofold station ordained for the Bab by the Almighty ... constitutes the most distinctive feature of the Baha'i Dispensation. It is a further evidence of its uniqueness, a tremendous accession to the strength, to the mysterious power and authority with which this holy cycle has been invested. WOB.123

As to thy question regarding plurality of number in the Dawning-Places of Oneness and the Manifestations of Holiness, it is clear to thine honour that the Cause of God ... and the Divine Purpose is not, nor hath never been, subject to any limitations. In certain cycles past there was a single Personage, and at other times, numerous Temples appeared from the Dayspring of the Cause of God. (Provisional translation from a Tablet, INBA77.023)
