



Consider, for instance, the revelation of the light of the Name of God, the Educator (rabb). Behold, how in all things the evidences of such a revelation are manifest, how the betterment of all beings dependeth upon it. This education is of two kinds. The one is universal. Its influence pervadeth all things and sustaineth them. It is for this reason that God hath assumed the title, 'Lord of all worlds.' (rabbu'l-'alamin) The other is confined to them that have come under the shadow of this Name, and sought the shelter of this most mighty Revelation. GWB#093 p189-190

...just as the physical sun is the trainer of all outer and phenomenal forms of being ... so the radiation of the light and heat of the Sun of Reality gives growth, education and evolution to minds, souls and spirits... PUP.271

Thou hast written of a verse in the Gospels, asking if at the time of Christ all souls did hear His call. Know that faith is of two kinds. The first is objective faith that is expressed by the outer man, obedience of the limbs and senses. The other faith is subjective, and unconscious obedience to the will of God. There is no doubt that, in the day of a Manifestation such as Christ, all contingent beings possessed subjective faith and had unconscious obedience to His Holiness Christ. For all parts of the creational world are of one whole. Christ the Manifestor reflecting the divine Sun represented the whole. All the parts are subordinate and obedient to the whole. The contingent beings are the branches of the tree of life while the Messenger of God is the root of that tree. The branches, leaves and fruit are dependent for their existence upon the root of the tree of life. This condition of unconscious obedience constitutes subjective faith. But the discerning faith that consists of true knowledge of God and the comprehension of divine words, of such faith there is very little in any age. That is why His Holiness Christ said to His followers, "Many are called but few are chosen." BWF.364 (Abdu'l-Baha)




Methinks they have been moulded from the clay of infinite knowledge, and kneaded with the water of divine wisdom. Therefore, hath it been said: 'Knowledge ('ilm) is a light which God casteth into the heart of whomsoever He willeth.' It is this kind of knowledge which is and hath ever been praiseworthy, and not the limited knowledge that hath sprung forth from veiled and obscured minds. This limited knowledge they even stealthily borrow one from the other, and vainly pride themselves therein! KI#048 p046

'The most grievous of all veils is the veil of knowledge ('ilm).' Upon its ashes, We have reared the tabernacle of divine knowledge. We have, praised be to God, burned the 'veils of glory' with the fire of the beauty of the Best-Beloved.... We cleave to no knowledge but His Knowledge, and set our hearts on naught save the effulgent glories of His light. KI#205 p188

Know verily that Knowledge ('ilm) is of two kinds: Divine and Satanic. The one welleth out from the fountain of divine inspiration; the other is but a reflection of vain and obscure thoughts. The source of the former is God Himself; the motive-force of the latter the whisperings of selfish desire.... The former bringeth forth the fruit of patience, of longing desire, of true understanding, and love; whilst the latter can yield naught but arrogance, vainglory and conceit. KI#076 p069

...how can he that faileth in the day of God's Revelation to attain unto the grace of the 'Divine Presence' and to recognize His Manifestation, be justly called learned, though he may have spent æons in the pursuit of knowledge...? Whereas, the most unlettered of all men, if he be honoured with this supreme distinction, he verily is accounted as one of those divinely-learned men whose knowledge is of God; for such a man hath attained the acme of knowledge ('ilm), and hath reached the furthermost summit of learning. KI#154 p145-146

...human knowledge is of two kinds. One is the knowledge acquired through the senses. That which the eye, the ear, or the senses of smell, taste, or touch can perceive is called "sensible".... The other kind of human knowledge is that of intelligible things; that is, it consists of intelligible realities which have no outward form or place and which are not sensible. For example, the power of the mind is not sensible, nor are any of the human attributes: These are intelligible realities. Love, likewise, is an intelligible and not a sensible reality.... Likewise, nature itself is an intelligible and not a sensible reality; the human spirit is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. But when you undertake to express these intelligible realities, you have no recourse but to cast them in the mould of the sensible, for outwardly there is nothing beyond the sensible. SAQ#16.1-4 (was SAQ.083)

Knowledge is of two kinds: existential [wujudi] knowledge and formal [suri] knowledge, that is, intuitive [tahaqquqi] knowledge and conceptual [tasavvuri] knowledge. The knowledge that people generally have of things consists in conceptualization and observation; that is, either the object is conceived through the rational faculty, or through its observation a form is produced in the mirror of the heart. The scope of this knowledge is quite limited, as it is conditioned upon acquisition and attainment. The other kind of knowledge, however, which is existential or intuitive knowledge, is like man's knowledge and awareness of his own self.... This knowledge is not the result of effort and acquisition: It is an existential matter; it is pure bounty. SAQ#40.2-5 (was SAQ.157)

In brief, the matter is that there are two considerations concerning knowledge. The first is its essence and reality and the second is its action. Therefore in mentioning knowledge, the intention might be that Knowledge which is identical to the Essence of the Absolute or the knowledge that is dependent on and pertains to objects of knowledge. The first is pre-existent and identical to the Essence of the Absolute; the second is originated and is identical to created things. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.11, MKT2:035)

Know that there are two kinds of knowledge [irfan]: the knowledge of the essence [dhat] of a thing and the knowledge [sifat] of its attributes. The essence of each thing is known only through its attributes; otherwise, that essence is unknown and unfathomed. As our knowledge of things, even of created and limited ones, is of their attributes and not of their essence, how then can it be possible to understand in its essence the unbounded Reality of the Divinity? ...everything is known by its attributes and not by its essence: Even though the human mind encompasses all things, and all outward things are in turn encompassed by it, yet the latter are unknown with regard to their essence and can only be known with regard to their attributes. SAQ#59.3-4 (was SAQ.220)

The philosophers of the world are divided into two classes: materialists, who deny the spirit and its immortality, and the divine philosophers, the wise men of God, the true illuminati who believe in the spirit and its continuance hereafter....  The divine philosophers proclaim that the spirit of man is ever-living and eternal... PUP.240

Philosophy is of two kinds: natural and divine. Natural philosophy seeks knowledge of physical verities and explains material phenomena, whereas divine philosophy deals with ideal verities and phenomena of the spirit. The field and scope of natural philosophy have been greatly enlarged, and its accomplishments are most praiseworthy, for it has served humanity. But according to the evidence of present world conditions divine philosophy--which has for its object the sublimation of human nature, spiritual advancement, heavenly guidance for the development of the human race, attainment to the breaths of the Holy Spirit and knowledge of the verities of God--has been outdistanced and neglected. Now is the time for us to make an effort and enable it to advance apace with the philosophy of material investigation so that awakening of the ideal virtues may progress equally with the unfoldment of the natural powers. In the same proportion that the body of man is developing, the spirit of man must be strengthened; and just as his outer perceptions have been quickened, his inner intellectual powers must be sensitized so that he need not rely wholly upon tradition and human precedent. In divine questions we must not depend entirely upon the heritage of tradition and former human experience; nay, rather, we must exercise reason, analyze and logically examine the facts presented so that confidence will be inspired and faith attained. Then and then only the reality of things will be revealed to us. The philosophers of Greece--such as Aristotle, Socrates, Plato and others--were devoted to the investigation of both natural and spiritual phenomena. In their schools of teaching they discoursed upon the world of nature as well as the supernatural world. Today the philosophy and logic of Aristotle are known throughout the world. Because they were interested in both natural and divine philosophy, furthering the development of the physical world of mankind as well as the intellectual, they rendered praiseworthy service to humanity. This was the reason of the triumph and survival of their teachings and principles. Man should continue both these lines of research and investigation so that all the human virtues, outer and inner, may become possible. The attainment of these virtues, both material and ideal, is conditioned upon intelligent investigation of reality, by which investigation the sublimity of man and his intellectual progress is accomplished. Forms must be set aside and renounced; reality must be sought. PUP.326-327; PUP.328

They [the Persian 'Society of the Friends'] divided Divine philosophy into two parts: one kind is that of which the knowledge can be acquired through lectures and study in schools and colleges. The second kind of philosophy was that of the Illuminati, or followers of the inner light.... Some of the great questions unfolding from the rays of the Sun of Reality upon the mind of man are: the problem of the reality of the spirit of man; of the birth of the spirit; of its birth from this world into the world of God; the question of the inner life of the spirit and of its fate after its ascension from the body.... They go so far as to reflect upon the essential nature of the Divinity, of the Divine revelation, of the manifestation of the Deity in this world. PT#54:2-4 p173

The divine sciences of knowledge are stored in the repositories of words, except such sciences as are specialized to His Exalted Essence and which none are able to attain... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.062)

The source of all learning ('ulum) is the knowledge (irfan) of God, exalted be His Glory, and this cannot be attained save through the knowledge of His Divine Manifestation. TB.156

The spirit of man is a circumambient power that encompasseth the realities of all things...the human spirit is an all-encompassing power that exerteth its dominion over the inner essences of all created things, uncovering the well kept mysteries of the phenomenal world. The divine spirit, however, doth unveil divine realities and universal mysteries that lie within the spiritual world. SWAB#145 p169-170

...this immortal human soul is endowed with two means of perception: One is effected through instrumentality; the other, independently. ...the immortality of the soul, or spirit, is not contingent or dependent upon the so-called immortality of the body, because the body in the quiescent state, in the time of sleep, may be as dead, unconscious, senseless; but the soul, or spirit, is possessed of perceptions, sensations, motion and discovery. PUP.416

O man of two visions! Close one eye and open the other. Close one to the world and all that is therein, and open the other to the hallowed beauty of the Beloved. PHW#12, Ruhi2.1.6

...the universal divine Intellect, which transcends nature, is the outpouring grace of the pre-existent Power. It encompasses all existing realities and receives its share of the lights and mysteries of God. It is an all-knowing power, not a power of investigation and sensing. The spiritual power associated with the world of nature is the power of investigation, and it is through investigation that it discovers the realities and properties of things. But the heavenly intellectual power, which is beyond nature, encompasses, knows, and comprehends all things; is aware of the divine mysteries, truths, and inner meanings; and discovers the hidden verities of the Kingdom. SAQ#58.4 (was SAQ.218)

Know that the influence and perception of the human spirit is of two kinds; that is, the human spirit has two modes of operation and understanding. One mode is through the mediation of bodily instruments and organs. Thus it sees with the eye, hears with the ear, speaks with the tongue. These are actions of the spirit and operations of the human reality, but they occur through the mediation of bodily instruments.... The other mode of the spirit's influence and action is without these bodily instruments and organs. SAQ#61.1-2 (was SAQ.227)

Just as human intellects have revealed the secrets of matter and have brought forth from the realm of the invisible the mysteries of nature, may minds and spirits, likewise, come into the knowledge of the verities of God, and the realities of the Kingdom be made manifest in human hearts. PUP.038-039

He has given us material gifts and spiritual graces, outer sight to view the lights of the sun and inner vision by which we may perceive the glory of God. He has designed the outer ear to enjoy the melodies of sound and the inner hearing wherewith we may hear the voice of our Creator. PUP.090, Ruhi5.3.4

Progress is of two kinds: material and spiritual. The former is attained through observation of the surrounding existence and constitutes the foundation of civilization. Spiritual progress is through the breaths of the Holy Spirit and is the awakening of the conscious soul of man to perceive the reality of Divinity. PUP.142

Man possesses two types of virtues:  One is material, and the other ideal in character.  For example, the body of man expresses certain material virtues, but the spirit of man manifests virtues that are ideal.  The sense of sight in man is a physical virtue; but insight, the power of inner perception, is ideal in its nature.  The sense of hearing is a physical endowment, whereas memory in man is ideal.  Among other human forces the power of ideation, or faculty of intellection, is material, but the power of love is spiritual. PUP.325

The perceptions of man are of two kinds:  tangible, or sensible, and reasonable.... The tangible perceptions may be likened to this candle, the reasonable perceptions to the light. PUP.357

Regarding the 'two wings' of the soul:  These signify wings of ascent.  One is the wing of knowledge, the other of faith, as this is the means of the ascent of the human soul to the lofty station of divine perfections. TAB.178

Know thou, verily, God hath preferred the insight to the sight; because the sight sees the material things, while the insight apprehends the spiritual. The former witnesses the earthly world, while the latter sees the world of the Kingdom. TAB.604-605

Know thou, verily, insight (or mental perception) seeth that which sight (or physical perception) seeth not and apprehendeth that which the body perceiveth not. TAB.607-608

...the outward faculties and senses of man discover and perceive the appearance of things. But the light of Intuition (or Inner Perception) is a light which comprehends the realities and the core of things. Intuition (or Inner Perception) means the Divine Universal Reason, and it comprehends and grasps supernatural things and conditions which cannot be grasped by the outward senses. (Pilgrim notes of Ali-Kuli Khan, 1906, p. 17)

...a philosopher with induction finds out a way. But the prophet discerns with sight.... The scientist with induction is like a blind man who cannot see two steps ahead of him. The prophet sees a long distance. SW v13#06 p143 (Pilgrim notes of Anna Kunz at Tiberias and Haifa)

And do they not see (yara) that We drive rain to parched soil, and produce therewith crops, providing food for their cattle and themselves?  Have they not the vision (basar)? Qur'an 32:27

Let him who can, follow and come within, and leave outside the sight of his eyes... Shut your eyes, and change to and wake another way of seeing, which everyone has but few use. Plotinus, Enn.I.6.8

...while the human Intellect hath a faculty of Intelligence, whereby it perceives intellectual truths, yet the act whereby the Intellect communes with the things that are beyond it transcends its intellectual nature. (Pseudo-Dionysius, in Rolt p.147)

You have learned from this discussion that the eye is two eyes: outward and inward. The outward eye derives from the world of sensation and visibility, while the inward eye derives from another world - namely, the world of malakut.... The heavens and the earth are filled with light from the two levels of light: that is, the light ascribed to eyesight and to insight; or, in other words, [light ascribed] to the senses and to the rational faculty. (Al-Ghazali, The Niche of Lights, pp. 10; 19)

This is a spiritual argument, but it cannot be presented to the material philosophers at the outset. Rather, we must first present the rational arguments and only afterwards the spiritual ones. SAQ#50.6 (was SAQ.197)

Now concerning philosophers, they are of two schools.  Thus Socrates the wise believed in the unity of God and the existence of the soul after death; as his opinion was contrary to that of the narrow-minded people of his time, that divine sage was poisoned by them. Forel.13

As material and physical sciences are taught here and are constantly unfolding in wider vistas of attainment, I am hopeful that spiritual development may also follow and keep pace with these outer advantages. As material knowledge is illuminating those within the walls of this great temple of learning, so also may the light of the spirit, the inner and divine light of the real philosophy glorify this institution. PUP.031

Scientific knowledge is the highest attainment upon the human plane, for science is the discoverer of realities.  It is of two kinds:  material and spiritual.  Material science is the investigation of natural phenomena; divine science is the discovery and realization of spiritual verities.  The world of humanity must acquire both.  A bird has two wings; it cannot fly with one.  Material and spiritual science are the two wings of human uplift and attainment.  Both are necessary - one the natural, the other supernatural; one material, the other divine.  By the divine we mean the discovery of the mysteries of God, the comprehension of spiritual realities, the wisdom of God, inner significances of the heavenly religions and foundation of the law. PUP.138

Philosophy develops the mind.  Christ and the Word of God are revealed through the spirit.  Plato says, 'The mental conclusions are so and so.'  Christ says, 'Be led of the Spirit.' PUP.213

Teachers are of two kinds:  universal and special.  The universal Instructors are the Prophets of God, and the special teachers are the philosophers.  The philosophers are capable of educating and training a limited circle of human souls, whereas the holy, divine Manifestations of God confer general education upon humanity. PUP.400

The light of the intellect enables us to understand and realize all that exists, but it is only the Divine Light that can give us sight for the invisible things, and which enables us to see truths that will only be visible to the world thousands of years hence. PT#22:5 p069

The greatest philosophers without this Spirit are powerless, their souls lifeless, their hearts dead! Unless the Holy Spirit breathes into their souls, they can do no good work.... Learned philosophers, unenlightened by the Divine Spirit, have often been men of inferior morality... The difference between spiritual philosophers and others is shown by their lives. PT#51:8 p165

...think of man as endowed with two kinds of sight; when the power of insight is being used the outward power of vision does not see.... The meditative faculty is akin to the mirror; if you put it before earthly objects it will reflect them. Therefore if the spirit of man is contemplating earthly subjects he will be informed of these. But if you turn the mirror of your spirits heavenwards, the heavenly constellations and the rays of the Sun of Reality will be reflected in your hearts, and the virtues of the Kingdom will be obtained. PT#54:13-18 p175-176

...abandon every imagination and be attracted to the light of reality and discover both the divine truths and physical truths! TAB.612

Humanity is divided into two classes:  one is satisfied with the knowledge of divinity through its attributes and the other strives to understand the mysteries of divinity and be informed of the fundamental principles of divine philosophy. ADP.104

There are two kinds of civilization -- material civilization which serves the physical world and divine civilization which renders service to the world of morality. The founders of the material, practical civilization are the scientists and investigators and the establishers of divine civilization are the celestial universal teachers. ADP.161

...there are two considerations concerning knowledge. The first is its essence and reality and the second is its action. Therefore in mentioning knowledge, the intention might be that Knowledge which is identical to the Essence of the Absolute or the knowledge that is dependent on and pertains to objects of knowledge. The first is pre-existent and identical to the Essence of the Absolute; the second is originated and is identical to created things. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, BSB3:4 p.4-35, MKT2:035)

...discursive thought, in order to express anything in words, has to consider one thing after another: this is the method of description; but how can one describe the absolutely simple? ... One must believe one has seen, when the soul suddenly takes light... Plotinus, Enn.V.3.17

The soul has two main faculties. (a) As outer circumstances are communicated to the soul by the eyes, ears, and brain of a man, so does the soul communicate its desires and purposes through the brain to the hands and tongue of the physical body, thereby expressing itself. The spirit in the soul is the very essence of life. (b) The second faculty of the soul expresses itself in the world of vision, where the soul inhabited by the spirit has its being, and functions without the help of the material bodily senses. PT#28:14 p086

Although, materially speaking, thou art deprived of physical sight, yet, praise be to God, spiritual insight is thine. Thy heart seeth and thy spirit heareth.... the sight of the heart is illumined. It discerneth and discovereth the divine Kingdom. It is everlasting and eternal. SWAB#018 p037-038

Beseech the peerless and incomparable Lord to bestow a penetrating insight upon His servants, for insight leadeth to true knowledge and is conducive to salvation. Indeed, the attainments of man's understanding are dependent upon his keenness of sight. Were the children of men to gaze with the eye of understanding, they would see the world illumined with a new light in this Day. TU.3#10

Knowledge is of two kinds: conceptual [tasavvari] and positive [tahaqquqi]; or, to use another expression, acquired [husuli] and innate [huduri]. For example, we know that water exists, but this is purely conceptual knowledge. When we have drunk it becomes positive knowledge. That is why it is said that complete knowledge of a thing is positive and not conceptual. For example, a person will not find delight in the mere conceptual knowledge of the existence of food and luxuries; but when he partakes of them he delights in them, for he has attained positive knowledge of them. AvK1.067, KHT1.243 (provisional translation, ABU0031) Alternate translation: Knowledge is of two kinds: one is conceptual and the other confirmed. In other words, one kind is acquired and the other is conscious knowledge. For example, we know that water existeth in principle, but that knowledge remains a mere mental concept. But when we drink that water, it then becometh a confirmed reality. (The Kingdom of Existence, p. 161)

In this Day whatsoever serveth to reduce blindness and to increase vision is worthy of consideration. This vision acteth as the agent and guide for true knowledge. Indeed in the estimation of men of wisdom keenness of understanding is due to keenness of vision. TB.035

Knowledge is of two kinds. The one is the knowledge that pertaineth to the Essence [dhat]. This knowledge is of God and is identical with and undistinguishable from His Essence, for it ariseth from the station of His Supreme Singleness in which His Essence encompasseth all Names and Attributes. That Essential knowledge is divine and sanctified above all understanding. The other kind of knowledge is confined to the plane of action and visible being. In other words, it ariseth from that which is revealed and manifest, and signifieth the outward realization of a thing. The eye can perceive that which outwardly existeth, not that which is invisible. But knowledge can pertain to that which hath no outward existence, a connection impossible for the eye. (Provisional translation, AB00954, The Kingdom of Existence p. 162)

Those who have been initiated into the divine mysteries believe that knowledge is of two kinds: The first is the comprehension of a thing without the conception of it in the mind; this is essential or inherent knowledge [dhati]. The second is empirical knowledge [suri], and that is knowledge acquired through observation which consisteth of the comprehension of a thing perceived as an image in the mind. Saying that God beheld [His creation] referreth to observational knowledge, whereas existential knowledge is identical with His Essence, the Essence of Divinity itself, whose reality is at once unknowable and unfathomable to all. Wert thou to understand the subtleties of this subject, thou wouldst have to ponder its meaning deeply. Thou mayest know that a great tree potentially existeth within this seed, yet the eye cannot actually see it until such time as it shall spring forth as a tree. (Provisional translation, AB00954, The Kingdom of Existence p. 163)

All human understanding and knowledge is of three categories. One is the knowledge of abstract concepts and universal elemental realities which are comprehended by sound minds and holy souls. Another consisteth of the ideal forms and images of external entities perceivable by the physical senses and faculties. And the third is that category of knowledge which is under the influence of both mental and sensuous powers, in other words thoughts produced by concepts that assume the shape of concrete things in such a way as to be visible to the faculty of imagination as well as understood by the intellect. Since the radiant flame of the divine intellect that discerneth abstract verities is obscured in all human beings, and since people's perceptions are limited to the tangible, the third type of knowledge is often adopted to explain these realities, so that feeble minds may, to some extent, partake of spiritual truths. It is for this reason that the term 'the All-Highest Paradise' is sometimes used, and at other times 'the Garden of Repose', or simply 'the Garden', 'the Meads', or 'the Forest'. Otherwise, the stages of divine nearness and proximity in the Abha Kingdom are sanctified far above such limited and vain imaginings ... (Provisional translation, AB04098)




At that hour will the mystic Herald, bearing the joyful tidings of the Spirit, shine forth from the City of God, resplendent as the morn, and, through the trumpet-blast of knowledge, will awaken the heart, the soul, and the spirit from the slumber of negligence. Then will the manifold favors and outpouring grace of the holy and everlasting Spirit confer such new life upon the seeker that he will find himself endowed with a new eye, a new ear, a new heart (qalb), and a new mind (fu'ad). He will contemplate the manifest signs of the universe, and will penetrate the hidden mysteries of the soul. Gazing with the eye of God, he will perceive within every atom a door that leadeth him to the stations of absolute certitude. He will discover in all things the mysteries of Divine Revelation, and the evidences of an everlasting Manifestation. KI#216 p196, GWB#125 p267

After passing through the Valley of Knowledge, which is the last station of limitation, the wayfarer cometh to the First Station of Unity (tawhid) and drinketh from the cup of oneness (tajrid), and gazeth upon the manifestations of singleness (tafrid). In this station he pierceth the veils of plurality, fleeth the realms of the flesh, and ascendeth unto the heaven of unity (wahdat). With the ear of God he heareth; with the eye of God he beholdeth the mysteries of divine creation. CDB#2.35 (was SV.17)

God screens us evermore from premature ideas. Our eyes are holden that we cannot see things that stare us in the face until the hour comes when the mind is ripened; then we behold them, and the time when we saw them not is like a dream. (Ralph Waldo Emerson, Essays)

...the divine reality is unlimited and immeasurable and can never stop or deteriorate, therefore the holy souls who are confirmed with this divine power are likewise endowed with eternal motion. Their progress becomes unlimited. Day by day their lives are strengthened, the circle of their comprehension becomes more effectual and their capacities are increased. ADP.125-126

...ask thou of God that the magnet of His love should draw unto thee the knowledge of Him. Once a soul becometh holy in all things, purified, sanctified, the gates of the knowledge of God will open wide before his eyes. SWAB#160 p191

Now, thou hast reached development and apprehended the degree of maturity: Gaze at the grades of the existence, the realities of things, the allegories in the epistles of God, and the mysteries in the Old and New Testament. By the life of Baha, the covering will be removed from thee, and thou will be informed of that which all the philosophers and wise men are unable to apprehend. Verily, this is a gift which God assigns only to such of His chosen servants as He willeth. TAB.166

We must learn to read the Universe; it is an open book. All the worlds known and unknown are ours if we are at one with the Spirit. BW5:667 (Abdu'l-Baha to Laura Barney)

Were he that treadeth the path of guidance and seeketh to scale the heights of righteousness to attain unto this glorious and exalted station, he would inhale, at a distance of a thousand leagues, the fragrance of God, and would perceive the resplendent morn of a Divine guidance rising above the Day Spring of all things. Each and every thing, however small, would be to him a revelation, leading him to his Beloved, the Object of his quest. So great shall be the discernment of this seeker that he will discriminate between truth and falsehood, even as he doth distinguish the sun from shadow. If in the uttermost corners of the East the sweet savors of God be wafted, he will assuredly recognize and inhale their fragrance, even though he be dwelling in the uttermost ends of the West. He will, likewise, clearly distinguish all the signs of God--His wondrous utterances, His great works, and mighty deeds--from the doings, the words and ways of men, even as the jeweler who knoweth the gem from the stone, or the man who distinguisheth the spring from autumn and heat from cold. KI#217 p196-197, GWB#125 p267-268

Whosoever entereth this city will comprehend every science before probing into its mysteries and will acquire from the leaves of its trees a knowledge and wisdom encompassing such mysteries of divine lordship as are enshrined within the treasuries of creation.... Thou wouldst apprehend the most obscure signs and the most abstruse allusions, and wouldst clearly behold the mysteries of the beginning in the point of the end. All matters would be made easy unto thee, fire would be turned into light, knowledge and blessings, and thou wouldst abide in safety within the court of holiness. GDM#018 p015-016

For otherwise, unto them that have recognized the Repositories of divine Revelation and beheld through His inspiration the mysteries of divine authority, all the verses of God are perspicuous and all His allusions are clear. Such men discern the inner mysteries that have been clothed in the garment of words as clearly as ye perceive the heat of the sun or the wetness of water, nay even more distinctly. GDM#034 p026

For verily the soul, while bound by the ephemeral and transitory things of this world, is confined, in its understanding, to limited phenomena only. However, once the soul hath soared beyond the realm of nature and becometh submerged in the ocean of absolute unity, then can it acquire the capacity to discern the reality of all sciences and knowledge in their full plenitude. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.044)




O children of understanding! If the eyelid, however delicate, can deprive man's outer eye from beholding the world and all that is therein, consider then what would be wrought if the veil of covetousness were to descend upon his inner eye. Say: O people! The darkness of greed and envy becloudeth the radiance of the soul even as the clouds obstruct the light of the sun. TU.1#11         "Consider the human eye. Though it hath the faculty of perceiving all created things, yet the slightest impediment may so obstruct its vision as to deprive it of the power of discerning any object whatsoever." GWB#082 p160

If a man puts anything in his line of vision, however small, it is enough to obstruct his sight and prevent him from seeing other things in front of him; just so any small desire or idle act in the soul is sufficient to obstruct its vision of great and Divine things. (St. John of the Cross, The Living Flame of Love, St. 3)
