



Know that there are two natures in man: the material and the spiritual. The material nature is inherited from Adam, while the spiritual nature is inherited from the reality of the Word of God, which is the spirituality of Christ. The material nature is born of Adam, but the spiritual nature is born of the grace of the Holy Spirit. The material nature is the source of every imperfection, and the spiritual nature is the source of all perfection. SAQ#29.2 (was SAQ.118)

But this human spirit has two aspects: one divine and one satanic--that is, it is capable of both the greatest perfection and the greatest deficiency. Should it acquire virtues, it is the noblest of all things; and should it acquire vices, it becomes the most vile. SAQ#36.5 (was SAQ.144)

Man has two planes: the physical and the intellectual. The divine revelators have three: their physical condition, which is shared by all mankind... their intellectual degree and their holy reality which surrounds all beings and comprehends secrets. Their horizons enfold the universe... ADP.059-060

...this human reality [his inner, ethereal reality - the human spirit] stands between the higher and the lower in man, between the world of the animal and the world of Divinity.... man is a reality which stands between light and darkness. From this standpoint his nature is threefold: animal, human and divine. The animal nature is darkness; the heavenly is light in light. PUP.465

The human spirit (ruh-i insani), in other words the rational soul (nafs-i natiqa), in the world of existence is the intermediary between things corporeal (disengaged - mujarradat) and delimited worldly things (mutahayyizat); that is to say, between realities spiritual and things corporeal. From one vantage point it possesses spiritual refinement while from the other it exhibits the crassness of carnality, animalistic traits and worldly characteristics. It is neither an absolute abstraction nor is it completely of the world but is the confluence of two seas (majma'al-bahrayn), and a barzakh between two realities (amrayn). If the spiritual aspect dominates it becometh lofty, luminous, merciful, tranquil (mutma'inna), contented (radiya) and approved (mardiyya). And if it is contaminated with contingent, worldly concerns, it becometh immersed in the ocean of darkness, reproachful (lawwama), commanding to evil (ammara) and residing in the nethermost regions of the world of existence. It is thus the case that the human spirit has two aspects. If the luminous aspect of the human intellect overcometh the world of nature, it will acquire the power of discovery which is the basis for wondrous insights, and become informed about the realities and the characteristics of things. From this brief explanation perceive the detailed significances. (Tablet of 'Abdu'l-Baha to Mirza Qabil of Abadih, in Star of the West (Persian section) 5:7 (13 Jul. 1914), provisional translation, BSB6:2-3, p.85) Alternative translation: the human spirit, in other words, the rational soul is the intermediary between the immaterial and the corporeal, that is to say, between things spiritual and things material. From one perspective, it is endowed with spiritual refinement; from another, it is characterized by the crass inclination towards animalistic appetites and worldly desires. It is neither completely spiritual nor completely worldly. (The Kingdom of Existence, p. 201; AB02513)

· For Plotinus the fundamental cleavage in man is not between matter and spirit but between higher and lower self, only the former having free will. (Plotinus, Enn.III.3.40)     · For every man is double, one of him is the sort of compound being and one of him is himself; and the whole universe is, one part the composite body and a sort of soul bound to body, and one the soul of the All which is not in body but makes a trace of itself shine on that which is in body. Enn.II.3.9

In short, man is endowed with two natures: one tendeth towards moral sublimity and intellectual perfection, while the other turneth to bestial degradation and carnal imperfections. SWAB#225 p288

Man is in the ultimate degree of materiality and the beginning of spirituality; that is, he is at the end of imperfection and the beginning of perfection. He is at the furthermost degree of darkness and the beginning of the light. That is why the station of man is said to be the end of night and the beginning of day, meaning that he encompasses all the degrees of imperfection and that he potentially possesses all the degrees of perfection. He has both an animal side and an angelic side. SAQ#64.2 (was SAQ.235)

...life is of two kinds: that of the body and that of the spirit. The life of the body consists in material life, but the life of the spirit is a heavenly existence which consists in receiving the grace of the Divine Spirit and being quickened through the breath of the Holy Spirit. SAQ#67.3 (was SAQ.241)

For man two wings are necessary.  One wing is physical power and material civilization; the other is spiritual power and divine civilization.  With one wing only, flight is impossible. PUP.012

Man has two aspects:  the physical, which is subject to nature, and the merciful or divine, which is connected with God.  If the physical or natural disposition in him should overcome the heavenly and merciful, he is, then, the most degraded of animal beings; and if the divine and spiritual should triumph over the human and natural, he is, verily, an angel. PUP.041

Man has two powers; and his development, two aspects.  One power is connected with the material world, and by it he is capable of material advancement. The other power is spiritual, and through its development his inner, potential nature is awakened.  These powers are like two wings.  Both must be developed, for flight is impossible with one wing. PUP.060

...man is dual in aspect: as an animal he is subject to nature, but in his spiritual or conscious being he transcends the world of material existence. His spiritual powers, being nobler and higher, possess virtues of which nature intrinsically has no evidence... PUP.081

From the time of the creation of Adam to this day there have been two pathways in the world of humanity: one the natural or materialistic, the other the religious or spiritual. PUP.177

...just as the outer sense of sight is necessary to him, he should also possess insight and conscious perception; as he needs hearing, at the same time memory is essential; as a body is indispensable to him, likewise a mind is requisite; one is a material virtue, the other is ideal.  As human creatures fitted and qualified with this dual endowment, we must endeavor through the assistance and grace of God and by the exercise of our ideal power of intellect to attain all lofty virtues... PUP.328

...man is possessed of two realities, as it were:  a reality connected with the senses which is shared in common with the animal, and another reality which is conscious and ideal in character.  This latter is the collective reality and the discoverer of mysteries. PUP.418

It is evident that human personality appears in two aspects:  the image or likeness of God, and the aspect of Satan.  The human reality stands between these two:  the divine and the satanic.  It is manifest that beyond this material body, man is endowed with another reality, which is the world of exemplars constituting the heavenly body of man. PUP.464

In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher nature and his material or lower nature. In one he approaches God, in the other he lives for the world alone. PT#18.2 p060

...the soul, hath two phases:  the higher aspireth to the Kingdom of El-Baha, and the lights of the mind shine forth from that horizon (or kingdom) unto its higher sphere; the other phase inclineth to the lower concourse TAB.611

If the soul identifies itself with the material world.... but it it becomes the recipient of the graces of the world of the mind... ADP.121

Since the pure essence, whose identity is unknown, possesses the virtues of the worlds of matter and of the Kingdom, it has two aspects - first, the material and physical; second, the mental and spiritual... SW v07#19 p190 (Abdu'l-Baha)

There are two sides to man. One is divine, the other worldly; one is luminous, the other dark; one is angelic, the other diabolic. SW v07#19 p190 (Abdu'l-Baha)

There exist in man two powers. One power uplifts him - this is divine attraction which causes man's elevation.... The other power causes man to descent; this is the animal nature. The first attracts man to the Kingdom; the second brings him down to the created world. (Pilgrim notes from "The Diary of Juliet Thompson", p.24, SW v14#01 p009-010)

My hope is that day by day thou mayest be more confirmed ... may serve the world of morality so that human realities may be freed from the gloom of the world of nature which, in essence, is purely animal in character, and may be illumined with the light of the divine realm. SW v10#03 p44 (Tablet to Jean Masson)

This is the human spirit. This human spirit has two sides; it will incline either towards the Divine or Material. It has the capacity/potentiality of complete perfection, and the potentiality of the lowest abasement. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 42)

...self has really two meanings, or is used in two senses, in the Baha'i writings; one is self, the identity of the individual created by God. This is the self mentioned in such passages as 'he hath known God who hath known himself etc.' The other self is the ego, the dark, animalistic heritage each one of us has.... LG#386 (10 Dec. 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

[see discussion in Enn.I.1. Makes distinction between lower soul that governs the body and the higher soul or intellect; see SAQ.144 - but argues that the higher soul is entirely unaffected by physical conditions.]

How lofty is the station which man, if he but choose to fulfill his high destiny, can attain! To what depths of degradation he can sink, depths which the meanest of creatures have never reached! GWB#101 p206

But humanity, in reality, is poised midway between gods and beasts, and inclines now to the one order, now to the other; some men grow like to the divine, others to the brute, the greater number stand neutral. Plotinus, Enn.III.1.8

I have created Thee, and assigned unto Thee two stations. The one is Mine own station, in which naught can be seen but I Myself. In this station, Thou speakest on My part, saying: "Verily, I am God, no God is there but Me, the Lord of all the Worlds." In the other station, Thou dost praise and magnify Me, dost proclaim My Oneness, dost worship Me, and dost prostrate Thyself before Me. Arabic Bayan 4:1
