



Two calls to success and prosperity are being raised from the heights of the happiness of mankind.... The one is the call of civilization, of the progress of the material world. This pertaineth to the world of phenomena, promoteth the principles of material achievement, and is the trainer for the physical accomplishments of mankind.... The propagator and executive power of this call is just government.... The other is the soul-stirring call of God, Whose spiritual teachings are safeguards of the everlasting glory, the eternal happiness and illumination of the world of humanity, and cause attributes of mercy to be revealed in the human world and the life beyond.... Its penetrative power is the Word of God.... Therefore, this civilization and material progress should be combined with the Most Great Guidance so that this nether world may become the scene of the appearance of the bestowals of the Kingdom, and physical achievements may be conjoined with the effulgences of the Merciful. SWAB#225 p283




All the Prophets have come to promote divine bestowals, to found the spiritual civilization and teach the principles of morality. PUP.012

The more the world of humanity develops, the more the effulgences or emanations of Divinity will become revealed, just as the stone, when it becomes polished and pure as a mirror, will reflect in fuller degree the glory and splendor of the sun. PUP.059

All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing civilization. GWB#109 p215, Ruhi2.3.3

Every man of insight will, in this day, readily admit that the counsels which the Pen of this wronged One hath revealed constitute the supreme animating power for the advancement of the world and the exaltation of its peoples. GWB#043 p093, TB.086

In this way the primary purpose in revealing the Divine Law--which is to bring about happiness in the afterlife and civilization and the refinement of character in this--will be realized. SDC.046

By the Lord God, and there is no God but He, even the minutest details of civilized life derive from the grace of the Prophets of God. What thing of value to mankind has ever come into being which was not first set forth either directly or by implication in the Holy Scriptures? SDC.096

...the Divine religions enjoin upon and encourage all the faithful to adopt such principles as will conduce to continuous improvements, and to acquire from other peoples sciences and arts. SDC.099

Promote ye the development of the cities of God and His countries, and glorify Him therein in the joyous accents of His well-favoured ones. KA#160

...the Will and Testament of 'Abdu'l-Baha ... together with the Kitab-i-Aqdas, constitutes the chief depository wherein are enshrined those priceless elements of that Divine Civilization, the establishment of which is the primary mission of the Baha'i Faith. WOB.003-004, Ruhi8.1.25

He is a true Baha'i who strives by day and by night to progress and advance along the path of human endeavor, whose most cherished desire is so to live and act as to enrich and illuminate the world, whose source of inspiration is the essence of Divine virtue, whose aim in life is so to conduct himself as to be the cause of infinite progress. Only when he attains unto such perfect gifts can it be said of him that he is a true Baha'i. ('Abdu'l-Baha, in The Baha'i World, vol. 1, p. 12; MKT4.050)
