



Know that, while the Manifestations of God possess infinite virtues and perfections, They occupy only three stations: The first is the material station; the second is the human station, which is that of the rational soul; and the third is that of divine manifestation and heavenly splendour. SAQ#38.1 (was SAQ.151)

We stated before that the Manifestations of God have three stations: first, the material reality, which pertains to the human body; second, the individual reality, that is, the rational soul; and third, the heavenly manifestation, which consists in the divine perfections and is the source of the life of the world, the education of the souls, the guidance of the people, and the enlightenment of all creation. SAQ#39.1 (was SAQ.154)

The holy Manifestations have three stations: the corporeal station, the station of the rational soul, and the station of perfect divine manifestation and heavenly splendour. SAQ#58.5 (was SAQ.218)

Man has two planes: the physical and the intellectual. The divine revelators have three: their physical condition, which is shared by all mankind... their intellectual degree and their holy reality which surrounds all beings and comprehends secrets. Their horizons enfold the universe... ADP.059-060




If it be said that all the past [knowledge] was hidden and concealed, and that in the Appearance of the Point of the Bayan ... the hidden countenances of meanings came out unveiled, this is the truth, the indubitable truth. If it be said that all was said in brief and now hath come the Interpreter the Expounder, this also is indubitable truth of that there is no doubt. If it be said that all in this Wondrous Theophany [Zuhur-i badi] hath never existed in the past, this saying is a correct saying, too. For if God, glorified be His Glory, uttereth a Word that all people have uttered in the past, nevertheless that word is a wonderful new creation. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Iqtidarat pp. 87-88, excerpt here)
