



Most of the Islamic philosophers, the peripatetic philosophers, the followers of Mulla Sadra (as-Sadra'iyyin), and the Theosophical philosophers (al-ilahiyyin) have erred in their explanations of this station. The signs of the effulgences (tajalliyat) of creation were mistaken by them for the countenance of the Essence [of God]. Thus they went along with erroneous statements concerning the Eternal Archetypes (a`yan thabita) being in the Essence [of God] in order to establish His knowledge (praised be He)[1]; and with mention of the Uncompounded Reality in order to establish causality (`illiyya) in the Essence [of God]; and with mention of the connection between the Essence [of God] and [His] actions and attributes; and with the mention of the oneness of Being (wahdat al-wujud) between the Creator (mujid) and the one who has gone astray (al-mafqud). All of this is absolute heresy (shirk mahd) in the estimation of the family of God, the Imams of justice, for God has always been the All-Knowing without the existence of anything having form and shape (? - shay'un bi-mithl ma inna-hu kana shayyar). (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, INBA86:95-96, in Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah)     [1] This refers to the assertion that if Knowledge is an essential attribute of God then the Eternal Archetypes of all created things must be within the Essence of God in order for there to be something that is the object of God's knowledge. (note by M. Momen)

Two stations can be observed in the Divine Unity: Existential Oneness (tawhid-i wujudi), and this is that [station] wherein they negate everything with a 'no' and affirm the Absolute Reality. This means that they do not acknowledge the existence of anything other than the Absolute Reality, in the sense that all things, when placed next to the manifestation and remembrance of It, have been and will continue to be absolute nothingness (fana-yi mahd). 'All things perish save the [Divine] face'.... [The second station in Divine Unity,] Manifestational Oneness (tawhid-i shuhudi), is that [station] where the signs of the Primal Divine Unity (ahadiyah), the manifestations of Eternity, and the effulgences of the light of Singleness can be observed in all things. Thus it is that in the divine book it is revealed: 'We shall show them Our signs on the horizons and in themselves.' In this station the effulgences of the signs of the uncompounded reality can be observed and are apparent in all things. The meaning of the philosopher was not that the Absolute Reality is dispersed into the innumerable existent things. Exalted, exalted is It from being dispersed in anything or being limited by any boundary or being associated with anything in creation. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah, Iqtidarat p. 108)

Know that the idea of the unity of existence [wahdatu'l-wujud] is ancient and is not restricted to the Theosophists and the Sufis alone.[1] Indeed, it was espoused by some of the Greek philosophers, such as Aristotle, who said: "The uncompounded Reality [basit-i-haqiqi] is all things, but it is not any single one of them."[2] "Uncompounded" stands here in contrast to "composed"--that is to say, that solitary Reality, which is sanctified and exalted above composition and division, has resolved itself into countless forms. Thus, real Existence is all things, but it is not any single one of them. SAQ#82.2 (was SAQ.290) [1] While, as 'Abdu'l-Baha explains, the idea is of ancient origin, its history in Islamic thought begins with Ibnu'l-'Arabi (1165-1240). "Ibnu'l-'Arabi is a thoroughgoing monist, and the name given to his doctrine (vahdatu'l-vujud, the unity of existence) justly describes it. He holds that all things pre-exist as ideas in the knowledge of God, whence they emanate and whither they ultimately return." R. A. Nicholson, "Mysticism", The Legacy of Islam, ed. Sir Thomas Arnold and Alfred Guillaume (Oxford University Press, 1931), p. 224. [2] Cf. Plotinus, Ennead 5.2.1: "The One is all things and not a single one of them..." (Armstrong's trans.); and Plato, Parmenides 160b2-3: "Thus, if there is a One, the One is both all things and nothing whatsoever, alike with reference to itself and to the Others" (Cornford's trans.). In the tradition of the Islamic philosophers, certain of the writings of Plotinus are attributed to Aristotle.

Concerning what the questioner asked regarding the statement of the philosophers (hukama) that 'the uncompounded reality is all things', say: know that what is intended by 'things' in this context (lit. station, maqam) is none other than being (wujud) and the perfections (kamalat) of being in so far as they are existent [and not privative]; and by 'all' is meant the obtainer (al-wajid). This 'all' contains no mention of plurality and has nothing which can be compared to it. The meaning is that the uncompounded reality, when it is uncompounded in all respects, is the obtainer and gatherer of all perfections without limits or end. As they have said: 'There is no defined boundary to His works.' (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah, Iqtidarat, p. 105)

And from another aspect, the lights of the uncompounded reality can be seen in all things. This is dependent on the sight of the seer and the discernment of the beholder. Penetrating vision (absar-i hadidih) can see the signs of the Primal Divine Unity in all things, since all things have been and are the loci of the manifestations of the Divine Names. The Absolute Reality, however, has been and will continue unceasingly to be sanctified from ascent and descent, from limitations, connections and relationships, while 'things' exist and appear in the loci of limitations. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah, Iqtidarat, p. 106)

All that which is Simple in Its essential Reality (basit al-haqiqa) is, by virtue of Its (absolute) Unity (wahdat), all things. (Mulla Sadra, The Wisdom of the Throne, p. 98. See also MacEoin, Sources p. 78 fn: For a Shaykhi commentary on this formula, see Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa'i, Sharh al-'Arshiyya, vol. 1, pp. 79ff)

Thus, if there is a one, the one is both all things and nothing whatsoever, alike with reference to itself and to the others. Plato, Parmenides 160b2-3         The one is all things and not a single one of them. Plotinus, Enn.V.2.1

God, verily, created the Will from nothing through itself, then He created through it all that to which the name "thing" can be applied. The cause of its existence, in truth, is its own self and naught else. Those who believe that the Essence is the cause of creation have made themselves partners with Him, as He cannot be known. He, verily, abideth in a state accessible only to Himself. Nothing is connected to Him, and in Him not a trace of the existence belonging to created things can be found. It is established in philosophy that cause and effect are alike. Therefore, the Imam hath declared: "The cause of things is His fashioning, but He is not its cause."     The feet of some of the learned have slipped in their explanation of this station, inasmuch as they have believed in something that God hath not purposed in His Book. Haply God may forgive them through His grace. He, verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful. Those who claim that there is a direct tie between God and creation have followed after their own desires, as others have followed them aforetime. This is an error in the estimation of the people of sanctity, for if we attribute such a connection to the Essence, then nothing in the religion of the Family of God is true. Nay, this is joining partners with Him, as I recited to thee previously. And if the connection resideth in creation, then there is no need for the people of the Bayan to prove it. This is why the Imam (upon him be peace) hath stated: "No third thing existeth between God and creation, and no third thing existeth apart from these two." This is well known by he whom God hath called to witness the creation of the heavens and the earth, and then the creation of himself. God is a sufficient witness unto what I say.     Those who say the fixed archetypes reside in the Essence of God in order to establish His knowledge, as all believe save those whom God hath pleased to preserve, have completely forsaken the religion of the Family of God, for any reference to otherness in their being testifieth to their separation and indicateth their complete rupture from God. God is the eternal Being, Who from time immemorial hath not changed, and it is not possible for divine unity to belong to anyone save Himself. All things are the images of substances whose existence hath no trace in God....Verily, God is the eternal Being, Who begetteth not and was not begotten. He hath no likeness in the realm of creation and no sign in the world of contingency, for a sign is a sign of one who is not indicated by himself for himself and an attribution is a description of one who is not described by himself for himself. Far exalted is God above that which they who make comparisons to Him invent concerning the oneness of existence. There is no statement in the estimation of God more absurd than this saying of theirs, for they mean by it that creation is the branch of the one Being. Verily, the Essence hath ever been void of His creation and He was apart from it when it came into being. No aspect of it is in Him.     The philosophers were compelled to propose the doctrine of the fixed archetypes and the uncompounded reality by their desire to establish the former in the knowledge of God. But gracious God! To establish God's knowledge of His creatures can only lead to falsehood, since from time immemorial God's knowledge hath been the same as Himself without another object of knowledge within Him. No one can understand the state of His Being except Himself. And whosoever aspireth to encompass the knowledge of his Lord at the same moment disbelieveth in Him, for how is anyone able to encompass the knowledge of his Lord whose very reality existeth through His act of creation [ibda] and was brought into being from nothing? He hath ever been the All-Knowing, even though nothing was with Him; and He is now the All-Knowing, despite the fact that nothing is with Him in His exalted station. The attributes of power and knowledge, and all the other names and attributes, are signs belonging to His creation and the musings of the imaginations of His servants that they may not doubt their Creator in anything. (The Bab, provisional translation, Tafsir-i-Ha, AvK1.100-102, quoted in K. Brown's selections on the Seven Stages)

For whatever wondrous references and powerful descriptions have appeared from the tongue and pen refer to the sublime Word [of God], the most exalted Pen, the primal Summit, the true Homeland, and the Dawning-place of the manifestation of mercy. This is [109] the source of Divine Unity (tawhid) and the Manifestation of singleness and abstraction. In this station, all of the most beautiful Names [of God] and the most lofty [Divine] Attributes refer to Him (i.e. the manifestation of God), and do not refer to anything beyond Him, for, as has been stated, the Unseen Reality is sanctified from all reference. This locus of the light of Divine Unity, even though outwardly He is given a name and appears to be bound by limitations, is in His inner reality uncompounded (basit), sanctified from limitations. This uncompounded state is relative and attributive (idafi wa nisbi) and not uncompounded in an absolute sense (min kull al-jihat). In this station, the meaning is as follows: the Primal Word and the Dawning-place of the light of Primal Oneness is the educator of all things and the possessor of innumerable perfections. For this word in this station, there is an exposition, hidden in the treasures of purity (infallibility, `ismat) and recorded in the guarded tablet, which it is not appropriate to mention now. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality, Iqtidarat p.108-109)

As for the nature of God's knowledge of universals, that is, knowing in a general respect, or knowing the universals of things: These are universal worlds under which are instances and individuals, or they are abstracted universals, like naturalness, logicalness, and rationality. These are fixed things on the left side of existence. It is this theme that has caused most of the people to perish, and you will find that all are comparers and deniers, save those who adhere to the sayings of Muhammad and His family and who do not let their feet exceed their bounds....     The truth of this question is contrary to what the majority of the people understand. But the matter is easy for one who has discovered and recognized that knowledge is the same as the object of knowledge in the Necessary and the contingent, the visible and the invisible. Whoever doesn't understand this will never attain the truth of this question. An explanation of this will follow, God willing....     The truth is that when the creative action is related to existence, it is the Will; when it is related to the archetype ('ayn), in other words, the species form, it is Purpose; and when it is related to the limitations of the created, that is to say, their topography (handasa)--which includes length and breadth, continuance and mortality, term of duration, and the like--it is predestination. Through the accomplishment of the act of creation and the thing itself, it is fate; and through its manifestation, the revealing of causes, and the disclosure of means, it is execution....     The notion of the unity of the thinker with the object of thought is based upon what was put forward by the author of the doctrine of the oneness of existence (wahdat al-wujud). He was obliged, for the sake of the correctness of this principle, to forget what it implied in corruption of belief and to cross over into unworthy speculations. God willing, we will explain the falsity of everything he depends upon and the repugnance of what he implies, such as the oneness of the agent and the patient, cause and effect, and so on....     (Shaykh Ahmad, Sharh al-Masha'ir, pp. 15-18, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

The meaning of the author [Sadra] is that the Intellect is uncompounded, and that which is beyond it is uncompounded, namely, God, and since all is an uncompounded reality (basit al-Haqiqa), then He is all the existents. But this view is false, for the Intellect is not uncompounded, except in relation to what is below it in the temporal world. They have only conceived it to be uncompounded based upon the words of the ancient philosophers, who obtained wisdom from the Prophets. It may be that a philosopher deduced it from their sayings, so the error is in the deduction. They wrote their books in Syriac, and when they were translated into Arabic some errors in interpreting and understanding the words of the masters may have occurred. For instance, when they said this Intellect is pure (mujarrad), they meant that it is free of elemental matter, temporal extension, and melancholic, psychic, and imaginal form. He [Sadra] has asserted that the Intellect is utterly uncompounded, as is applicable to the Creator, exalted be He. But whatever is created, without a doubt, is composed of two aspects, and aspect from its Lord, which is existence, or matter; and an aspect from itself, which is the quiddity, or form. This is because every contingent thing is a composite pair, and nothing other than God has an uncompounded nature. How then can it be said to be uncompounded? (Shaykh Ahmad, Sharh al-Masha'ir, pp. 15-18, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

Concerning the doctrine of the True Indivisible Being (Basitu'l-Haqiqah), as mentioned by some philosophers as evidence for a common existence between the Absolute Being and utter nothingness: this is, undoubtedly and for many conclusive reasons, a false concept.... Among these reasons is the incontrovertible testimony of the intellect, that naught existeth besides the Essence of Eternity, and that He possesseth no attributes, of whatever different meaning, save His own Essence. Thus, no recourse is there for one who claimeth the truth of the idea of the True Indivisible Being, except to assert one of two blatant errors: either the pre-existence of pluralities in the Essence of God, or the descent of the Essence into the rank of the dust. Both of these are impossible, nay, forbidden, inasmuch as there can never be any descent for the Essence of God, nor can any mention ever be uttered, other than of Him, at His level. He is God; all else are His creatures, and there can be no third between, or besides, them. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.194-195)

Some souls, in what they say, intend either sophistication or jest. How many souls in this Most Great Revelation have asked questions about wisdom and other abstruse matters, and answers descended and were revealed from the heaven of the favor of the Lord of all return. Yet no trace remained of those souls. For example, one of the philosophers asked about the Uncompounded Reality, and an answer was revealed from the Kingdom of Utterance according to his capacity, yet it yielded no fruit. (BH01112, Claude 3.5s)
