



There is but one reality and one essence that is expounded in the worlds of outer form, and, at each of its stages, is described by a specific name ... in accordance with the degrees of its particular manifestations on the plane of this limited world. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, in "A Baha'i Perspective on the Origin of Matter", JBS2:3 p.41-42)

Nature manifests in various forms, but the basic element is the same.  There is unity of essence and variety of expression. ADP.062

...the origin and outcome of phenomena are identical and ... there is an essential oneness in all existing things. This is a subtle principle appertaining to divine philosophy and requiring close analysis and attention. PUP.284

...I will speak to you upon the intrinsic oneness of the world of all phenomena. This is one of the abstruse subjects of divine philosophy. As each component atom or element in the physical organisms of existence is subject to transference through endless forms and stages, possessing virtues peculiar to those forms and stations, it is evident that all phenomena of material being are fundamentally one.... the origin of all material life is one and its termination likewise one. PUP.349-350

All these things are the One and not the One: they are he because they come from him; they are not he, because it is in abiding by himself that he gives them. It is then like a long life stretched out at length; each part is different from that which comes next in order, but the whole is continuous with itself... Plotinus, Enn.V.2.2     ...how is that One the principle of all things? Is it because as principle it keeps them in being, making each one of them exist? Yes, and because it brought them into existence. But how did it do so? By possessing them beforehand. But is has been said that in this way it will be a multiplicity. But it had them in such a way as not to be distinct: they are distinguished on the second level, in the rational form. Enn.V.3.15

Thou hast written of a verse in the Gospels, asking if at the time of Christ all souls did hear His call. Know that faith is of two kinds. The first is objective faith that is expressed by the outer man, obedience of the limbs and senses. The other faith is subjective, and unconscious obedience to the will of God. There is no doubt that, in the day of a Manifestation such as Christ, all contingent beings possessed subjective faith and had unconscious obedience to His Holiness Christ. For all parts of the creational world are of one whole. Christ the Manifestor reflecting the divine Sun represented the whole. All the parts are subordinate and obedient to the whole. The contingent beings are the branches of the tree of life while the Messenger of God is the root of that tree. The branches, leaves and fruit are dependent for their existence upon the root of the tree of life. This condition of unconscious obedience constitutes subjective faith. But the discerning faith that consists of true knowledge of God and the comprehension of divine words, of such faith there is very little in any age. That is why His Holiness Christ said to His followers, "Many are called but few are chosen." BWF.364 (Abdu'l-Baha)

A careful analysis of the Bab's writings discloses that ... all His writings are animated by a common fundamental principle which has multiple dimensions and forms. We may term this foremost hermeneutic concept the principle of metaphysical unity. (N. Saiedi, in GOH.049)

That which exists is one, sages call it by various names [Ekam Sat Vipra Bahudha Vadanti]. (Rig Veda)

All the saplings of the world have appeared from one Tree, and all the drops from one Ocean, and all beings owe their existence to one Being. (Baha'u'llah, quoted in The Promised Day Is Come, p. 114)

Listening not to me but to the account, it is wise to agree that all things are one. (Heraclitus, B 50, in Early Greek Philosophy p. 102)




Spirit (ruh), mind ('aql), soul (nafs), and the powers of sight and hearing are but one single reality which hath manifold expressions owing to the diversity of its instruments.... For example, if it directeth its attention to the means of hearing, then hearing and its attributes become manifest. SLH.2#035

Human reality is the same reality which is given different names, according to the different conditions wherein it becomes manifest. Because of its attachment to matter and the phenomenal world, when it governs the physical functions of the body it is called the human soul. When it manifests itself as the thinker, it is called the mind. And when it soars into the atmosphere of God, and travels in the spiritual world, it becomes designated as spirit. SW v07#19 p.190 (Abdu'l-Baha) According to some ancient philosophers, the words soul, mind and spirit imply the underlying principles of life, expressing the various phases of one absolute reality. They were different names for the operations of one essence. For instance, we say a man sees, hears and speaks - seeing, hearing and speaking are the different performances of the same power which animates man. Different schools of thought have given different names to the various operations of the one essence. For instance, when some speak of the emotions of consciousness they call it soul; and when they express the discovering power of man they call it mind, and when they refer to the animating essence of the world of creation, they call it spirit. SW v04#02 p.037 (Abdu'l-Baha, 30 Jan. 1913)

...the reality of the soul is sanctified and purified above matter and material things, but like unto the world of vision, it manifests itself in these material forms and visages... (Pilgrim notes of Helen Goodall and Ella Cooper, Daily Lessons Received at Akka, p. 79)

What is the difference between soul and spirit? `Abdu'l-Baha: They mean the same. It is one reality. The names are different. We must consider it according to its use. Because it is the discoverer of reality, they call it intellect, for it is the cause of the true life of man. When it produces an effect on one, we speak of it as the heart, whilst these three things are one. (Talks given to some American pilgrims, 1 Jan. 1920; notes taken by Mr. Fugita)

The true self of man referred to in the above mentioned passage [GWB #027?] is not a spirit or entity higher or greater than the soul. Man's own true self and his soul are the same thing; the terms used indicate the same reality and hence are interchangeable. Also the term 'Essence of My Light' which in the Hidden Words, Baha'u'llah says, 'God has placed within us', is the same reality as the soul. All these terms are different ways of referring to the one great reality within man, that divine spark of Reality which is the secret of his superiority over the rest of creation. That Divine Spark of Reality is in the nature of a reflection of the Divine Attributes in man, just as the mirror reflects the light of the sun. (25 May 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The human subtle reality (al-latifat al-insaniyya), also called the soul (nafs), knows in a variety of modes. When it knows through reflection, the mode of knowing is called reason ('aql). When it knows directly from God, the mode of knowing is called the heart (qalb), which is contrasted with reason.... There are not two different entities known as reason and heart, though there is a real difference between the modalities of knowing. (Chittick, in The Sufi Path of Knowledge, p. 159)

Know also that the heart of the human being has an eye whose qualities of perfection are precisely this [lack of ... imperfections]. It is this eye that is sometimes called the rational faculty ('aql), sometimes the spirit (ruh), and sometimes the human soul (nafs). However, put aside these expressions; because when they become many, they make the person of weak insight imagine many meanings. (Al-Ghazali, The Niche of Lights, p. 5)

...the soul is many, even the soul which is one, even if it is not composed from parts; for there are very many powers in it, reasoning, desiring, apprehending, which are held together by the one as by a bond. Plotinus, Enn.VI.9.1

Consider the rational faculty (nafs-i-natiqih) with which God hath endowed the essence of man. Examine thine own self, and behold how thy motion and stillness, thy will and purpose... and whatever else is related to, or transcendeth, thy physical senses or spiritual perceptions, all proceed from, and owe their existence to, this same faculty. GWB#083 p164

Now regarding the question whether the faculties of the mind ('aql) and the human soul (ruh-i-insani) are one and the same. These faculties are but the inherent properties of the soul (ruh), such as the power of imagination, of thought, of understanding; powers that are the essential requisites of the reality of man, even as the solar ray is the inherent property of the sun. The temple of man is like unto a mirror, his soul is as the sun, and his mental faculties even as the rays that emanate from that source of light. Forel.24-25

We know that the body or form has nothing to do with spirit or spiritual conditions. When the spirit is disconnected with or leaves the body, that is no reason for thinking it can be re-absorbed or joined with the whole of spirit, as the drops of water are absorbed or lost in the sea. The earth is one unit, yet how many beings and separate parts it contains! The body of man is one unit, yet it has an infinte number of separate and individual parts that compose it -- such as eyes, hands, fingers, etc. So, in like manner, is Spirit ONE, but consiting of many differentiated parts. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1909)

Wherefore, bear thou witness through thyself that thou dost move, stand up, lie down, and commence all actions through one thing. This is an evident truth. On account of this single reality all these names and attributes are revealed through thee, as ye yourselves witness and acknowledge. These divers names and sundry attributes are manifested through the variations that have been decreed in your souls and created in your bodies that haply ye might ascend the ladders of knowledge within your own selves. Thus that by which thou dost exist is one thing, even shouldst thou call it or describe it by all names. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Tafsir-i-Hurufat, AvK1.240, MA4.049ff; PA00371)




Two stations can be observed in the Divine Unity: Existential Oneness (tawhid-i wujudi), and this is that [station] wherein they negate everything with a 'no' and affirm the Absolute Reality. This means that they do not acknowledge the existence of anything other than the Absolute Reality, in the sense that all things, when placed next to the manifestation and remembrance of It, have been and will continue to be absolute nothingness (fana-yi mahd). 'All things perish save the [Divine] face'.... [The second station in Divine Unity,] Manifestational Oneness (tawhid-i shuhudi), is that [station] where the signs of the Primal Divine Unity (ahadiyah), the manifestations of Eternity, and the effulgences of the light of Singleness can be observed in all things. Thus it is that in the divine book it is revealed: 'We shall show them Our signs on the horizons and in themselves.' In this station the effulgences of the signs of the uncompounded reality can be observed and are apparent in all things. The meaning of the philosopher was not that the Absolute Reality is dispersed into the innumerable existent things. Exalted, exalted is It from being dispersed in anything or being limited by any boundary or being associated with anything in creation. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah, Iqtidarat p. 108)




Most of the Islamic philosophers, the peripatetic philosophers, the followers of Mulla Sadra (as-Sadra'iyyin), and the Theosophical philosophers (al-ilahiyyin) have erred in their explanations of this station. The signs of the effulgences (tajalliyat) of creation were mistaken by them for the countenance of the Essence [of God]. Thus they went along with erroneous statements concerning the Eternal Archetypes (a`yan thabita) being in the Essence [of God] in order to establish His knowledge (praised be He)[1]; and with mention of the Uncompounded Reality in order to establish causality (`illiyya) in the Essence [of God]; and with mention of the connection between the Essence [of God] and [His] actions and attributes; and with the mention of the oneness of Being (wahdat al-wujud) between the Creator (mujid) and the one who has gone astray (al-mafqud). All of this is absolute heresy (shirk mahd) in the estimation of the family of God, the Imams of justice, for God has always been the All-Knowing without the existence of anything having form and shape (? - shay'un bi-mithl ma inna-hu kana shayyar). (The Bab, provisional translation, Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih, INBA86:95-96, in Lawh-i-Basitu'l-Haqiqah)     [1] This refers to the assertion that if Knowledge is an essential attribute of God then the Eternal Archetypes of all created things must be within the Essence of God in order for there to be something that is the object of God's knowledge. (note by M. Momen)

The creative movement, or, to use the technical terminology of wahdat al-wujud philosophy, the self-manifestation (tajalli) of the Absolute which is activated by the principle of love, emerges for the first time at the stage of ahadiyah and is called the 'most sacred Emanation' (Fayd-i-Aqdas). As the result of this Emanation, the stage of wahidiyah becomes established. The wahidiyah, is the ontological state at which the original absolute Oneness of the reality of existence appears with inner articulations. These inner articulations are called, in accordance with the traditional terminology of theology, divine Names and Attributes. In this sense the stage of wahidiyah is called the stage of the Names and Attributes (asma' wa-sifat). Another name of this stage is the stage of knowledge (`ilm), i.e. divine Consciousness. This appellation comes from the idea that the wahidiyah is the stage at which God becomes conscious of Himself in the form of His own essential Perfections (kamalat dhatiyah). The essential Perfections of God that are thus established in divine Consciousness with clear demarcations are called the 'eternal Archetypes' (a`yan thabitah). Structurally, each eternal Archetype is considered to be the zahir or exterior of [a] particular divine Name which is the batin or interior of the Archetype. The eternal Archetypes are to be regarded as ontological models which are eternally established in divine Consciousness and upon which the phenomenal things are produced in the empirical dimension of time and space.... The eternal Archetypes become actualized as individual phenomenal things only at the next stage, that of the concrete existent, or the world of creaturely things. And the creative or self-manifesting activity of the absolute reality of existence by which this ontological 'descent' is actualized is called the 'sacred emanation' (fayd muqaddas) in distinction from the 'most sacred emanation' by which the ahadiyah develops into wahidiyah. (Izutsu, "An Analysis of Wahdat al-Wujud", in Creation and the Timeless Order of Things, p. 92: See also Sufism and Taoism, pp. 159-192 and The Concept and Reality of Existence, p.82-83)

Those preeminent Sufis who founded the doctrine of the "unity of existence" [wahdat al-wujud] never intended by this term the universally predicated existence which is conceived by the mind. For such an existence is but an accident among others occurring in association with the realities of things.[1] That is to say, these realities are the substance [jawhar], whereas that existence which is conceived by the mind, the universally predicated existence, is but an accident associated with them. ('Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, JBS11:3-4, MKT3:354) [1] The meaning of the phrase `arid bar haqa'iq-i-mumkinat mishavad , translated here as "occurring in association with the realities of things," may be "occurring to the realities of things." A parallel passage in Mufavadat (i.e., Some Answered Questions) uses the expression hulul bar haqa'iq-i-ka'inat, which can mean "inhering in," "occurring to," and "descending upon." In other words, this external existence, to which we mentally predicate the attribute of existence, is an accident subsisting through (qa'im bi) the realities of things (See Abdu'l-Baha, Mufavadat [New Delhi: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1984] 203).

Know that the idea of the unity of existence [wahdatu'l-wujud] is ancient and is not restricted to the Theosophists and the Sufis alone.[1] Indeed, it was espoused by some of the Greek philosophers, such as Aristotle, who said: "The uncompounded Reality [basit-i-haqiqi] is all things, but it is not any single one of them."[2] "Uncompounded" stands here in contrast to "composed"--that is to say, that solitary Reality, which is sanctified and exalted above composition and division, has resolved itself into countless forms. Thus, real Existence is all things, but it is not any single one of them. SAQ#82.2 (was SAQ.290) [1] While, as 'Abdu'l-Baha explains, the idea is of ancient origin, its history in Islamic thought begins with Ibnu'l-'Arabi (1165-1240). "Ibnu'l-'Arabi is a thoroughgoing monist, and the name given to his doctrine (vahdatu'l-vujud, the unity of existence) justly describes it. He holds that all things pre-exist as ideas in the knowledge of God, whence they emanate and whither they ultimately return." R. A. Nicholson, "Mysticism", The Legacy of Islam, ed. Sir Thomas Arnold and Alfred Guillaume (Oxford University Press, 1931), p. 224. [2] Cf. Plotinus, Ennead 5.2.1: "The One is all things and not a single one of them..." (Armstrong's trans.); and Plato, Parmenides 160b2-3: "Thus, if there is a One, the One is both all things and nothing whatsoever, alike with reference to itself and to the Others" (Cornford's trans.). In the tradition of the Islamic philosophers, certain of the writings of Plotinus are attributed to Aristotle.

After scaling the high summits of wonderment, the wayfarer cometh to the Valley of True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness. This station is that of dying to the self and living in God, of being poor in self and rich in the Desired One. Poverty, as here referred to, signifieth being poor in that which pertaineth to the world of creation and rich in what belongeth to the realms of God. For when the true lover and devoted friend reacheth the presence of the Beloved, the radiant beauty of the Loved One and the fire of the lover's heart will kindle a blaze and burn away all veils and wrappings. Yea, all that he hath, from marrow to skin, will be set aflame, so that nothing will remain save the Friend.... Thou hast given up the drop of life and drawn nigh unto the ocean of the Well-Beloved.... In this valley the wayfarer passeth beyond the stages of the "unity of existence" and the "unity of appearance" (wahdatu'l-wujud wa shuhud) and reacheth a unity that is sanctified above both of these stations. Ecstasy alone can encompass this theme, not utterance nor argument... CDB#2.76-84 (was SV.36-39), Ruhi5.1.20

The supporters of the "oneness of existence" (wahdatu'l-wujud) have joined partners with God through their testimony of existence, because the oneness which they seek to establish is a consequence of the existence of two, and except through the negation of two, how is it possible to have oneness? In like manner, those individuals who assert that the cause of contingent existence is the Essence of God and say there is a connection between them are unbelievers, because a cause is a consequence of conjunction with an effect, and having a connection is a consequence of the existence of duality. Both of these suggestions are sheer error. Nay, rather the true God is the real Essence, while creation is contingent, and anything outside of this contingent creation is impossible to grasp....From time immemorial the creation hath been the creation, and conjunction with the Essence is not possible. (The Bab, provisional translation, Sahifiy-i-Usul va Furu', AvK1.103-104, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)

As for the nature of God's knowledge of universals, that is, knowing in a general respect, or knowing the universals of things: These are universal worlds under which are instances and individuals, or they are abstracted universals, like naturalness, logicalness, and rationality. These are fixed things on the left side of existence. It is this theme that has caused most of the people to perish, and you will find that all are comparers and deniers, save those who adhere to the sayings of Muhammad and His family and who do not let their feet exceed their bounds....     The truth of this question is contrary to what the majority of the people understand. But the matter is easy for one who has discovered and recognized that knowledge is the same as the object of knowledge in the Necessary and the contingent, the visible and the invisible. Whoever doesn't understand this will never attain the truth of this question. An explanation of this will follow, God willing....     The truth is that when the creative action is related to existence, it is the Will; when it is related to the archetype ('ayn), in other words, the species form, it is Purpose; and when it is related to the limitations of the created, that is to say, their topography (handasa)--which includes length and breadth, continuance and mortality, term of duration, and the like--it is predestination. Through the accomplishment of the act of creation and the thing itself, it is fate; and through its manifestation, the revealing of causes, and the disclosure of means, it is execution....     The notion of the unity of the thinker with the object of thought is based upon what was put forward by the author of the doctrine of the oneness of existence (wahdat al-wujud). He was obliged, for the sake of the correctness of this principle, to forget what it implied in corruption of belief and to cross over into unworthy speculations. God willing, we will explain the falsity of everything he depends upon and the repugnance of what he implies, such as the oneness of the agent and the patient, cause and effect, and so on....     (Shaykh Ahmad, Sharh al-Masha'ir, pp. 15-18, in K. Brown's selections on the seven stages)
