



The Revelation, of which Baha'u'llah is the source and center, abrogates none of the religions that have preceded it, nor does it attempt, in the slightest degree, to distort their features or to belittle their value. It disclaims any intention of dwarfing any of the Prophets of the past, or of whittling down the eternal verity of their teachings. It can, in no wise, conflict with the spirit that animates their claims, nor does it seek to undermine the basis of any man's allegiance to their cause. Its declared, its primary purpose is to enable every adherent of these Faiths to obtain a fuller understanding of the religion with which he stands identified, and to acquire a clearer apprehension of its purpose. It is neither eclectic in the presentation of its truths, nor arrogant in the affirmation of its claims. Its teachings revolve around the fundamental principle that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is progressive, not final. Unequivocally and without the least reservation it proclaims all established religions to be divine in origin, identical in their aims, complementary in their functions, continuous in their purpose, indispensable in their value to mankind. WOB.057-058 (and following paragraphs)

The Faith standing identified with the name of Baha'u'llah disclaims any intention to belittle any of the Prophets gone before Him... to abrogate the fundamentals of their doctrines.... Baha'u'llah inculcates the basic principle of the relativity of religious truth, the continuity of Divine Revelation, the progressiveness of religious experience. His aim is to widen the basis of all revealed religions and to unravel the mysteries of their scriptures. PDC#265 p112




The Faith of God hath in this Day been made manifest. He Who is the Lord of the world is come and hath shown the way. His faith is the faith of benevolence and His religion is the religion of forbearance. This faith bestoweth eternal life and this religion enableth mankind to dispense with all else. It verily embraceth all faiths and all religions. Take hold thereof and guard it well. TU.3#05




Thou hast written concerning organization. The divine teachings and the admonitions and exhortations of Baha'u'llah are manifestly evident. These constitute the organization of the Kingdom and their enforcement is obligatory. The least deviation from them is absolute error. SWAB#069 p106




With faces beaming with joy, hasten ye unto Him. This is the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the future. Let him that seeketh, attain it; and as to him that hath refused to seek it--verily, God is Self-Sufficient, above any need of His creatures. KA#182; GWB#070 p136

...this Faith is now increasingly demonstrating its right to be recognized, not as one more religious system superimposed on the conflicting creeds which for so many generations have divided mankind and darkened its fortunes, but rather as a restatement of the eternal verities underlying all the religions of the past... (Shoghi Effendi, 1947, statement to the special UN committee on Palestine)

...refusing to be labeled as a mere philosophy of life, or as an eclectic code of ethical conduct, or even as a new religion, the Faith of Baha'u'llah is now visibly succeeding in demonstrating its claim and title to be regarded as a World Religion, destined to attain, in the fullness of time, the status of a world-embracing Commonwealth...  WOB.196

The Revelation of Baha'u'llah, whose supreme mission is none other but the achievement of this organic and spiritual unity of the whole body of nations, should, if we be faithful to its implications, be regarded as signalizing through its advent the coming of age of the entire human race. It should be viewed not merely as yet another spiritual revival in the ever-changing fortunes of mankind, not only as a further stage in a chain of progressive Revelations, nor even as the culmination of one of a series of recurrent prophetic cycles, but rather as marking the last and highest stage in the stupendous evolution of man's collective life on this planet. WOB.163

...the Revelation identified with Baha'u'llah ... readily and gratefully recognizes their respective contributions to the gradual unfoldment of one Divine Revelation, unhesitatingly acknowledges itself to be but one link in the chain of continually progressive Revelations... GPB.100

...Baha'u'llah has not brought into existence a new religion to stand beside the present multiplicity of sectarian organizations. Rather has He recast the whole conception of religion as the principal force impelling the development of consciousness. (One Common Faith, p. 23)

...the people of religions find, in the teachings of Baha'u'llah, the establishment of Universal Religion--a religion that perfectly conforms with present conditions, which in reality effects the immediate cure of the incurable disease, which relieves every pain, and bestows the infallible antidote for every deadly poison. For if we wish to arrange and organize the world of mankind in accordance with the present religious imitations and thereby to establish the felicity of the world of mankind, it is impossible and impracticable--for example, the enforcement of the laws of the Torah and also of the other religions in accordance with present imitations. But the essential basis of all the Divine Religions which pertains to the virtues of the world of mankind and is the foundation of the welfare of the world of man, is found in the teachings of Baha'u'llah in the most perfect presentation. SWAB#227 p305

I have learned so much from God that I can no longer call myself a Christian, a Hindu, A Muslim, A Buddhist, a Jew. The Truth has shared so much of Itself with me that I can no longer call myself a man, a woman, an angel, or even a pure soul. Love has befriended Hafiz. It has turned to ash and freed me of every concept and image my mind has ever known. (Hafiz)

The successive Founders of all past Religions Who, from time immemorial, have shed, with ever-increasing intensity, the splendor of one common Revelation at the various stages which have marked the advance of mankind towards maturity may thus, in a sense, be regarded as preliminary Manifestations, anticipating and paving the way for the advent of that Day of Days when the whole earth will have fructified and the tree of humanity will have yielded its destined fruit. WOB.166

When asked on one occasion: "What is a Baha'i?" 'Abdu'l-Baha replied: "To be a Baha'i simply means to love all the world; to love humanity and try to serve it; to work for universal peace and universal brotherhood." On another occasion He defined a Baha'i as "one endowed with all the perfections of man in activity." In one of His London talks He said that a man may be a Baha'i even if He has never heard the name of Baha'u'llah. He added: The man who lives the life according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah is already a Baha'i. On the other hand, a man may call himself a Baha'i for fifty years, and if he does not live the life he is not a Baha'i. BNE.071-072

The Baha'i message is a call to religious unity and not an invitation to a new religion, not a new path to immortality, God forbid! It is the ancient path cleared of the debris of imaginations and superstitions of men, of the debris of strife and misunderstanding and is again made a clear path to the sincere seeker, that he may enter therein in assurance, and find that the Word of God is one Word, though the Speakers were many. SW v15#02 p.028 (Abdu'l-Baha - this quotation is not authenticated)

The Bahai Movement is not an organisation. You can never organise the Bahai Cause. The Baha'i Movement is the spirit of this age. It is the essence of all the highest ideals of this century. The Baha'i Cause is an inclusive movement: the teachings of all the religions and societies are found here; the Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Muslims, Zoroastrians, Theosophists, Freemasons, Spiritualists, et al., find their highest aims in this Cause. Even the Socialists and philosophers find their theories fully developed in this Movement. SW v6#15 p118 (n.b. Shoghi Effendi's warning in WOB.004: "I am at a loss to explain that strange mentality that inclines to uphold as the sole criterion of the truth of the Baha'i Teachings what is admittedly only an obscure and unauthenticated translation of an oral statement made by 'Abdu'l-Baha, in defiance and total disregard of the available text of all of His universally recognized writings.... To dissociate the administrative principles of the Cause from the purely spiritual and humanitarian teachings would be tantamount to a mutilation of the body of the Cause, a separation that can only result in the disintegration of its component parts, and the extinction of the Faith itself.")

Tell me now art thou a democrat or a Baha'i? To what category dost thou belong? Verily thou shouldst identify thyself with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. For a Baha'i has adopted a cause that is all inclusive, that gathers within its folds the essence of all humanitarian principles and the object of all world wide philanthropic movements. The Baha'i Revelation is the spirit and the glory of this age. It is the pure and unadulterated essence of all that is best and highest in this century. In a word it is an inclusive movement. Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Muhammadans, Zoroastrians and even Theosophists and Freemasons find their ideals realised in the practice of the principles of the Cause. Abdu'l-Baha, in diary letter of Shoghi Effendi, 13 January 1919

The difference between a Christian and a Baha'i, therefore, is this: There was a former springtime, and there is a springtime now. No other difference exists because the foundations are the same. Whoever acts completely in accordance with the teachings of Christ is a Baha'i. The purpose is the essential meaning of Christian, not the mere word. The purpose is the sun itself and not the dawning points. For though the sun is one sun, its dawning points are many. We must not adore the dawning points but worship the sun. We must adore the reality of religion and not blindly cling to the appellation Christianity. The Sun of Reality must be worshiped and followed. We must seek the fragrance of the rose from whatever bush it is blooming-whether oriental or western. Be seekers of light, no matter from which lantern it shines forth. Be not lovers of the lantern. PUP.247

The Blessed Beauty has provided the means for the unification of the world of humanity and has removed religious and social conflicts. No longer is a person to be defined by such labels as Jewish or Christian. All are embraced by the effulgence of the Faith, and all dwell beneath the tabernacle of unity. (Words to the friends spoken in Dec. 1907, ABU3293)

All the teaching of the Prophets is one; one faith; one Divine light shining throughout the world. Now, under the banner of the oneness of humanity all people of all creeds should turn away from prejudice and become friends and believers in all the Prophets. As Christians believe in Moses, so the Jews should believe in Jesus. As the Muhammadans believe in Christ and Moses, so likewise the Jews and the Christians should believe in Muhammad. Then all disputes would disappear, all then would be united. Baha'u'llah came for this purpose.... He has uplifted the standard of the oneness of faith and the honour of humanity in the centre of the world. Today we must gather round it, and try with heart and soul to bring about the union of mankind. AL.042

I asked him about the new religion his father had founded. He answered me that his father had not really founded a new religion, but a Bahauistic Organization. This derives its name from the prophet Bahaulah, his father. For six thousand years, he continued, there has been intolerance and struggle among the various religions themselves, and also fanaticism, hate and political discord among the various peoples and countries. ABU0477 (Abdu'l-Baha, provis. trans. by Claude 3.5 Sonnet)




Truth is found everywhere. It would be indeed difficult to find a creed or a doctrine of any sort in this world that did not possess some facet of truth; this is what Baha'u'llah believed and taught. But everything has a source or focal centre; the focal centres of truth are not broken up or distributed at random, but, like the sun, are concentrated in one mighty source whom we call a Prophet or Manifestation of God. What we find in each other, and in various creeds, are rays from this source -- but the source is the all-important thing, and to recognize and turn to it gives one an infinitely greater degree of strength and enlightenment than to try to find its rays, one here and one there, scattered about among our fellow men. (7 Jul. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, asked about the status of a number of different religious groups and movements, link here)




The Cause of God has room for all. It would, indeed, not be the Cause of God if it did not take in and welcome everyone -- poor and rich, educated, and ignorant, the unknown and the prominent -- God surely wants them all, as He created them all. LG#232, LG#1785, COC#1829, COC#1953 (2 Dec. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




The Cause of God has room for all. It would, indeed, not be the Cause of God if it did not take in and welcome everyone -- poor and rich, educated, and ignorant, the unknown and the prominent -- God surely wants them all, as He created them all. LG#232, LG#1785, COC#1829, COC#1953 (2 Dec. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
