



Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth therein, He, through the direct operation of His unconstrained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinction and capacity to know (ma'rifat) Him and to love Him - a capacity that must needs be regarded as the generating impulse and the primary purpose underlying the whole of creation. GWB#027 p065; Ruhi1.3.10

Behold how the generality of mankind hath been endued with the capacity to hearken unto God's most exalted Word - the Word upon which must depend the gathering together and spiritual resurrection of all men... GWB#043 p097, TB.089

The Word of God may be likened unto a sapling, whose roots have been implanted in the hearts of men. It is incumbent upon you to foster its growth through the living waters of wisdom, of sanctified and holy words, so that its root may become firmly fixed and its branches may spread out as high as the heavens and beyond. GWB#043 p097, TB.093-094, Ruhi2.1.4         Cf. Qur'an 14:24: "See thou not how God sets forth a parable? A goodly Word [is] like a goodly tree, whose root is firmly fixed, and its branches (reach) to the heavens."

The first and foremost testimony establishing His truth is His own Self. Next to this testimony is His Revelation. For whoso faileth to recognize either the one or the other He hath established the words He hath revealed as proof of His reality and truth. This is, verily, an evidence of His tender mercy unto men. He hath endowed every soul with the capacity to recognize the signs of God. GWB#052 p105-106

Through the Teachings of this Day Star of Truth every man will advance and develop until he attaineth the station at which he can manifest all the potential forces with which his inmost true self hath been endowed. It is for this very purpose that in every age and dispensation the Prophets of God and His chosen Ones have appeared amongst men... GWB#027 p068

From among all created things He hath singled out for His special favor the pure, the gem-like reality of man, and invested it with a unique capacity of knowing Him and of reflecting the greatness of His glory. This twofold distinction conferred upon him hath cleansed away from his heart the rust of every vain desire... GWB#034 p077-078

...every man hath been, and will continue to be, able of himself to appreciate the beauty of God, the Glorified. Had he not been endowed with such a capacity, how could he be called to account for his failure?... For the faith of no man can be conditioned by any one except himself. GWB#075 p143, Ruhi7.2.6

The greatest bestowal of God to man is the capacity to attain human virtues. PUP.378

These energies with which the Day Star of Divine bounty and Source of heavenly guidance hath endowed the reality of man lie, however, latent within him, even as the flame is hidden within the candle and the rays of light are potentially present in the lamp. Neither the candle nor the lamp can be lighted through their own unaided efforts, nor can it ever be possible for the mirror to free itself from its dross. It is clear and evident that until a fire is kindled the lamp will never be ignited, and unless the dross is blotted out from the face of the mirror it can never represent the image of the sun nor reflect its light and glory. GWB#027 p065-066, Ruhi1.3.11

...in the contingent world, the human species hath undergone progressive physical changes and, by a slow process, hath scaled the ladder of civilization ... until it gained the capacity to express the splendours of spiritual perfections... SWAB#225 p285

This humble servant is filled with wonder, inasmuch as all men are endowed with the capacity to see and hear, yet we find them deprived of the privilege of using these faculties. TB.171

The Cause of God has room for all. It would, indeed, not be the Cause of God if it did not take in and welcome everyone -- poor and rich, educated, and ignorant, the unknown and the prominent -- God surely wants them all, as He created them all. LG#232, LG#1785, COC#1829, COC#1953 (2 Dec. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
