



The seal of the choice Wine of His Revelation hath, in this Day and in His Name, the Self-Sufficing, been broken. Its grace is being poured out upon men. Fill thy cup, and drink in, in His Name... GWB#009 p012

The hands of bounty have borne round the cup of everlasting life. Approach, and quaff your fill. Drink with healthy relish, O ye that are the very incarnations of longing... GWB#014 p032

...seize, before the eyes of those who are in the heavens and those who are on the earth, the Chalice of Immortality, ... and quaff thy fill, and be not of them that tarry. GWB#076 p148

Well is it with him that hath quaffed the choice and incorruptible wine of faith... GWB#086 p171

Thou beholdest how ... the breath of trials hath stirred up those whose hearts had been firmly established, except such as have partaken of the Wine that is life indeed from the hands of the Manifestation of Thy name, the Most Merciful. PM#013 p015-016

Send down, then, upon me, O my Lord, out of the heaven of Thy bounty what will draw me nearer unto the chalice of Thy gifts, and make me able to quaff the choice sealed Wine, whose seal hath been loosed in Thy name, and from Which the sweet savours of Thy days have been shed abroad. PM#041 p058

I beseech Thee ... to nourish me with the wine of Thy knowledge and the living waters of Thy love and pleasure. PM#055 p078

...nor be prevented by the corrupt waters from partaking of the pure wine of Thy bounty and the everlasting streams of Thy gifts. PM#065 p106

O friend, till thou enter the garden of these inner meanings, thou shalt never taste of the imperishable wine of this valley. And shouldst thou taste of it, thou wilt turn away from all else and drink of the cup of contentment; thou wilt loose thyself from all things and bind thyself unto Him, and lay down thy life in His path and offer up thy soul for His sake. CDB#2.64 (was SV.30-31)

We meant by this Wine, the River of God, and His favor, the fountain of His living waters, and the Mystic Wine and its divine grace... COC#1785 (Baha'u'llah)

...suffer them to enjoy the sweet savours of holiness, that they may drink deep of the mystic cup of heavenly love and know the rapture of being drawn ever closer unto the Realm of the All-Glorious. For it is even as Thou hast said: 'All that thou hast in thy cellar will not appease the thirst of my love - bring me, O cup-bearer, of the wine of the spirit a cup full as the sea!' SWAB#129 p150

The wine mentioned in the Tablets has undoubtedly a spiritual meaning for in the book of Kitab-i-Aqdas we are definitely forbidden to take not only wine, but every thing that deranges the mind. LDG2.009 (4 Nov. 1926 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

...through Thy name through which Thou didst enable all them that have recognized Thy unity to partake of the wine of Thy mercy, and all such as have drawn nigh unto Thee to quaff the living waters of Thy loving-kindness... PM#163 p256




Say: From My laws the sweet smelling savor of My garment can be smelled, and by their aid the standards of victory will be planted upon the highest peaks. The Tongue of My power hath, from the heaven of My omnipotent glory, addressed to My creation these words: 'Observe My commandments, for the love of My beauty.' Happy is the lover that hath inhaled the divine fragrance of his Best-Beloved from these words, laden with the perfume of a grace which no tongue can describe.... Think not that We have revealed unto you a mere code of laws. Nay, rather, We have unsealed the choice Wine with the fingers of might and power.... Whenever My laws appear like the sun in the heaven of Mine utterance, they must be faithfully obeyed by all, though My decree be such as to cause the heaven of every religion to be cleft asunder. KA#004-005, GWB#155 p332-333, Ruhi3.1.9 (2nd and 3rd sentences), Ruhi4.3.29, Ruhi6.3.17 (2nd sentence)

The sincere among His servants will regard the precepts set forth by God as the Water of Life to the followers of every faith, and the Lamp of wisdom and loving providence to all the denizens of earth and heaven. KA#029

Know assuredly that My commandments are the lamps of My loving providence among My servants, and the keys of My mercy for My creatures. KA#003, Ruhi6.3.4, Ruhi6.3.17, Ruhi7.1.6

Indeed the laws of God are like unto the ocean and the children of men as fish, did they but know it. However, in observing them one must exercise tact and wisdom... One must guide mankind to the ocean of true understanding in a spirit of love and tolerance. The Kitab-i-Aqdas itself beareth eloquent testimony to the loving providence of God. KA#000 p006, Ruhi7.1.6 (1st sentence)

Ever I proclaim the Law, engaged in naught else; going, coming, sitting, standing, never am I weary of pouring it copious on the world, like the all-enriching rain, on honored and humble, high and low, law-keepers and law-breakers, those of perfect character, and those of imperfect, orthodox and heterodox, quick-witted and dull-witted, equally I rain the Law-rain unwearyingly. (Lotus Sutra 5)

He delivered us from every grievous yoke and freed us from every heavy burden. And He enjoined upon us laws, ordinances and teachings which bestow life to the soul and cause it to draw nigh unto its Best-Beloved. His laws all offer an opening rather than a narrowing; they proceed from universality rather than limitation; they impart joy and radiance rather than restriction. (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation in forthcoming volume)
