



No sign can indicate His presence or His absence; inasmuch as by a word of His command all that are in heaven and on earth have come to exist, and by His wish, which is the Primal Will itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being, the world of the visible. KI#104 p098

Thou didst wish to make Thyself known unto men; therefore, Thou didst, through a word of Thy mouth, bring creation into being and fashion the universe. PM#004 p006

Such as communicate the generating influence and such as receive its impact are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His Word are but the creatures and the effects thereof.... Every thing must needs have an origin and every building a builder. Verily, the Word of God is the Cause which hath preceded the contingent world -- a world which is adorned with the splendours of the Ancient of Days, yet is being renewed and regenerated at all times. Immeasurably exalted is the God of Wisdom Who hath raised this sublime structure. TB.140-141

In truth I have created Thee through Thyself, then at My Own behest I have fashioned all things through the creative power of Thy Word. We are All-Powerful.  I have appointed Thee to be the Beginning and the End, the Seen and the Hidden.  SWB.159

The Manifestation of God and the sea of names and attributes which reflect God are always and only His creations and not His Essence.... Creation is through the Manifestation of God, which is the Primal Will, which is the Word of God. (The Bab, provisional translation, Persian Bayan 3:6)

Praise be to the all-perceiving, the ever abiding Lord Who, from a dewdrop out of the ocean of His grace, hath reared the firmament of existence, adorned it with the stars of knowledge, and admitted man into the lofty court of insight and understanding. This dewdrop, which is the Primal Word of God, is at times called the Water of Life, inasmuch as it quickeneth with the waters of knowledge them that have perished in the wilderness of ignorance. Again it is called the Primal Light, a light born of the Sun of divine knowledge, though whose effulgence the first stirrings of existence were made plain and manifest. Such manifestations are the expressions of the grace of Him Who is the Peerless, the All-Wise....         It is clear and evident, therefore, that the first bestowal of God is the Word, and its discoverer and recipient is the power of understanding. This Word is the foremost instructor in the school of existence and the revealer of Him Who is the Almighty. All that is seen is visible only through the light of its wisdom. All that is manifest is but a token of its knowledge. All names are but its name, and the beginning and end of all matters must needs depend upon it. TU.1#01-02, Ruhi5.3.13 (2nd paragraph)

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. John 1:1-5     This statement [John 1:1] is brief but replete with the greatest meanings. Its applications are illimitable and beyond the power of books or words to contain and express. PUP.154

Every name hath been created by His Word, and every cause is dependent on His irresistible, His mighty and wondrous Cause. KA#167

Through a word proceeding out of the mouth of God he [man] was called into being; by one more word he was guided to recognize the Source of his education... GWB#122 p259-260

Thou art He Who hath created all things through a word uttered by Thy behest, and fashioned the entire creation through the power of Thy sovereignty and might. PM#082 p138

I beseech Thee by Thy power that hath encompassed all created things,... and by Thy Word which was hidden in Thy wisdom and whereby Thou didst create Thy heaven and Thy earth... PM#132 p219-220

One single letter of Thy Book is the mother of all utterances, and a word therefrom the begetter of all creation. PM#153 p245

Thou art that King by Whose commanding word the whole creation hath been called into being... PM#159 p251

...with but a movement of Thy Pen Thine injunction 'Be Thou' hath been enforced, and God's hidden Secret hath been divulged, and all created things have been called into being, and all the Revelations have been sent down. PM#180 p311, Ruhi4.3.31

I beg of Thee ... by Thy most sublime Word through whose potency Thou didst call the creation into being and didst reveal Thy Cause... TB.116

A praise which is exalted above every mention or description beseemeth the Adored One, ... Who, through the potency of His sublime Word, hath called into being the entire creation, whether of the former or more recent generations. TB.161

...whatever is created in the Faith of God is created through the potency of His Word. SWB.084

God said: I was a hidden treasure and desired to be known, therefore, I created the universe. I created it not out of nothingness but through self-emanation; my breath became [the] creative word of command, logos (see Evangile of John, introduction), which resulted in form and figure. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 3)

The creative word of command of God, the logos, is not merely a spark out of God, but the logos is the life-breath of God. In the logos, in the life-breath of God, already all the possibilities of existence rest, all the forms of being of creation. Let Baha'u'llah Himself talk: '...The word of God, the logos, is God's highest, overflowing (emanating) love, kindness and the being in all that is and has been; that is, goodness [kindness] and love, thought of as logos, are the resting pole in the transientness [evanescence] of appearances. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 4)

To Him is due the primal origin of the heavens and the earth:  When He decreeth a matter, He saith to it:  'Be', and it is. Qur'an 2:117       His command, when He desires a thing, is to say to it 'Be', and it is. Qur'an 36:81, cf. 16:40, 3:47

All existence is begotten by the Word of God, and the Word is made manifest through His advent. He is the perspicuous Book and the mighty Stronghold. He is the Dayspring of the hidden Mystery and the Dawning Place of the treasured Name. (Provisional translation, BH03733)




I testify that no sooner had the First Word proceeded, through the potency of Thy will and purpose, out of His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips than the whole creation was revolutionized, and all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred to the depths. Through that Word the realities of all things were shaken, were divided, separated, scattered, combined and reunited, disclosing, in both the contingent world and the heavenly kingdom (`alamu'l-Mulk wa'l-Malakut), entities of a new creation, and revealing, in the unseen realms (`alamu'l-Jabarut ... wa `alamu'l­Lahut), the signs and tokens of Thy unity and oneness (Wahidiyih ... wa Ahadiyih). PM#178 p295-296

Should the Word be allowed to release suddenly all the energies latent within it, no man could sustain the weight of so mighty a Revelation. Nay, all that is in heaven and on earth would flee in consternation before it. GWB#033 p076-077; WOB.164

Every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God is endowed with such potency as can instill new life into every human frame, if ye be of them that comprehend this truth.... Every single letter proceeding out of the mouth of God is indeed a mother letter, and every word uttered by Him Who is the Well Spring of Divine Revelation is a mother word, and His Tablet a Mother Tablet. GWB#074 p141, GWB#074 p142, Ruhi2.2.7, Ruhi6.1.23

The Word of God hath set the heart of the world afire; how regrettable if ye fail to be enkindled with its flame! GWB#147 p316

I implore Thee ... to enrapture the nations through the potency of the Word which Thou didst ordain to be the king of all words, the Word whereby the pearls of Thy wisdom were uncovered... PM#069 p113

Ponder, now, ... the influence of the word of God, that haply thou mayest turn from the left hand of idle fancy unto the right hand of certitude. ESW.110

He is made manifest through the power of Truth and hath uttered a Word whereby all that are in the heavens and on the earth have been dumbfounded, except those whom the Almighty was pleased to exempt. TB.050

He is fully capable of revolutionizing the world through the power of a single Word. TB.259-260

Do thou ponder on the penetrative influence of the Word of God. ESW.075-076

Consider ye what influence the penetrative power of the Word of God hath displayed in existence and how the universe is stirred and moved through it! TAB.399-400

Verily, the Word of God penetrates to the core of all things and cannot be resisted either by the hosts of the world or by the armies of the enemies! TAB.439

Your spirits would be so transported by His Word as to throw into commotion the Greater World ('alam-i-akbar) - how much more this small and petty one ('alam-i-asghar)! KA#055, GWB#072 p140

Were it His Will, He would, through but a single word proceeding from His presence, lay hold on all mankind. KA#132

Whoever hath been transported by the rapture born of adoration for My Name, the Most Compassionate, will recite the verses of God in such wise as to captivate the hearts of those yet wrapped in slumber. Well is it with him who hath quaffed the Mystic Wine of everlasting life from the utterance of his merciful Lord in My Name--a Name through which every lofty and majestic mountain hath been reduced to dust. KA#150

This is a Book which hath become the Lamp of the Eternal unto the world, and His straight, undeviating Path amidst the peoples of the earth. Say: This is the Dayspring of Divine knowledge, if ye be of them that understand, and the Dawning-place of God's commandments, if ye be of those who comprehend. KA#186, Ruhi3a.L29

All, however, must fix their gaze upon the word which hath dawned from the Divine Horizon: it is incumbent upon every soul to ponder upon its sovereignty, influence, might, and on its all-encompassing nature. There hath never been any doubt whatsoever that all these things are confirmed and corroborated only by the Word of God. It is the Word of God that transcendeth all things, creates the universe, educateth the people, guideth them who are sore athirst from separation unto the ocean of reunion, and penetrateth through the darkness of ignorance with the light of understanding. (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, AvK2.197, quoted here)

I testify that if Thy servants were to turn towards Thee with the eyes Thou didst create in them and with the ears wherewith Thou didst endow them, they would all be carried away by a single word sent down from the right hand of the throne of Thy majesty. PM#113 p190-191




Praise be to the all-perceiving, the ever abiding Lord Who, from a dewdrop out of the ocean of His grace, hath reared the firmament of existence, adorned it with the stars of knowledge, and admitted man into the lofty court of insight and understanding. This dewdrop, which is the Primal Word of God, is at times called the Water of Life, inasmuch as it quickeneth with the waters of knowledge them that have perished in the wilderness of ignorance. Again it is called the Primal Light, a light born of the Sun of divine knowledge, though whose effulgence the first stirrings of existence were made plain and manifest. Such manifestations are the expressions of the grace of Him Who is the Peerless, the All-Wise....         It is clear and evident, therefore, that the first bestowal of God is the Word, and its discoverer and recipient is the power of understanding. This Word is the foremost instructor in the school of existence and the revealer of Him Who is the Almighty. All that is seen is visible only through the light of its wisdom. All that is manifest is but a token of its knowledge. All names are but its name, and the beginning and end of all matters must needs depend upon it. TU.1#01-02, Ruhi5.3.13 (2nd paragraph)




...the Divine Breath englobes all the forms of the world; in face, it is for them like the Materia Prima (al-jawhar al-hayulani), which is nothing but the first determination of Universal Nature (al-tabi'ah). (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 75. Cf. Izutsu's commentary: "the 'breath of the Merciful' is the principle of Being or the ground of Being extending over both the world of material things and the world of spiritual beings. In this ontological capacity, the 'breath of the Merciful' is regarded by Ibn 'Arabi as Nature (tabi`ah). Viewed from this perspective, the 'breath' is a Substance (jawhar, in the Aristotelian sense of Prime Matter) in which all the forms of Being, both material and spiritual, are manifested." Sufism and Taoism, pp. 133-134)

Universal Nature is none other, in reality, than the Breath of Mercy (an-nafas ar-rahmani) in which are deployed the forms of the world, from the highest to the lowest, by the infusion (suryan) of the Divine Breath in the 'material prima' (al-jawhar al-hayulani); it is that which has taken place for the world of (terrestrial and celestial) bodies... (Ibn 'Arabi, from the Fusus al-Hikam, in Burckhardt, The Wisdom of the Prophets, p. 122)

The creative word of command of God, the logos, is not merely a spark out of God, but the logos is the life-breath of God. In the logos, in the life-breath of God, already all the possibilities of existence rest, all the forms of being of creation. Let Baha'u'llah Himself talk: '...The word of God, the logos, is God's highest, overflowing (emanating) love, kindness and the being in all that is and has been; that is, goodness [kindness] and love, thought of as logos, are the resting pole in the transientness [evanescence] of appearances. (From a talk entitled 'Abdu'l-Baha on the Creation of the World, according to a record of Dr. Fallscheer taken in the summer of 1910, p. 4)

...He fashioned him in due proportion, and breathed (nafakhtu) into him something of His spirit. Qur'an 32:9; also 15:29




Such is the binding force of the Word of God, which uniteth the hearts of them that have renounced all else but Him... KI#118 p112

Naught but the celestial potency of the Word of God, which ruleth and transcendeth the realities of all things, is capable of harmonizing the divergent thoughts, sentiments, ideas, and convictions of the children of men. Verily, it is the penetrating power in all things, the mover of souls and the binder and regulator in the world of humanity. SWAB#225 p292

Behold how the generality of mankind hath been endued with the capacity to hearken unto God's most exalted Word - the Word upon which must depend the gathering together and spiritual resurrection of all men... GWB#043 p097, TB.089

...the Word of God hath infused such awesome power into the inmost essence of humankind that He hath stripped men's human qualities of all effect, and hath, with His all-conquering might, unified the peoples in a vast sea of oneness. SWAB#007 p020

Thus when that unifying force, the penetrating influence of the Word of God, taketh effect, the difference of customs, manners, habits, ideas, opinions and dispositions embellisheth the world of humanity. SWAB#225 p291

We hope that the power of the Word of God will establish a peace that shall eternally remain effective and secure. SWAB#226 p296

The real temple is the very Word of God; for to it all humanity must turn, and it is the center of unity for all mankind.  It is the collective center, the cause of accord and communion of hearts, the sign of the solidarity of the human race, the source of eternal life. PUP.065




I testify that no sooner had the First Word proceeded, through the potency of Thy will and purpose, out of His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips than the whole creation was revolutionized, and all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred to the depths. Through that Word the realities of all things were shaken, were divided, separated, scattered, combined and reunited, disclosing, in both the contingent world and the heavenly kingdom (`alamu'l-Mulk wa'l-Malakut), entities of a new creation, and revealing, in the unseen realms (`alamu'l-Jabarut ... wa `alamu'l­Lahut), the signs and tokens of Thy unity and oneness (Wahidiyih ... wa Ahadiyih). PM#178 p295-296

...verily, powerful is He, the King of divine might, to extinguish with one letter of His wondrous words, the breath of life in the whole of the Bayan and the people thereof, and with one letter bestow upon them a new and everlasting life... KI#101 p092

This is the Day whereon naught can be seen except the splendors of the Light that shineth from the face of Thy Lord, the Gracious, the Most Bountiful. Verily, We have caused every soul to expire by virtue of Our irresistible and all-subduing sovereignty. We have, then, called into being a new creation, as a token of Our grace unto men. GWB#014 p029-030, Ruhi4.3.23

...through a word spoken by Thee in this Revelation all created things were made to expire, and through yet another word all such as Thou didst wish were, by Thy grace and bounty, endued with new life. PM#033 p042

...Thou, Who through but one word of Thy mouth, caused all things to expire and dissolve asunder, and Who, by yet another word, caused whatever had been separated to be combined and reunited! PM#080 p133

He hath ordained these Names and Attributes to be the first and foremost origin and cause of being in the world of creation and the source of the different grades of realities in the degrees of existence. When, through its power of attraction and propagation, the Day-Star of Names and Attributes shone upon the hidden realities in the heart of the unseen realm, they issued forth, were spread abroad, scattered about, set in order, became the recipients of the grace of God and His outpourings... (Abdu'l-Baha, provisional translation, Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih, MKT1:013)




No man of wisdom can demonstrate his knowledge save by means of words.  This showeth the significance of the Word as is affirmed in all the Scriptures, whether of former times or more recently.  For it is through its potency and animating spirit that the people of the world have attained so eminent a position. TB.172

...these heavenly Teachings are the remedy for a sick and suffering world, and a healing balm for the sores on the body of mankind. They are the spirit of life, the ark of salvation, the magnet to draw down eternal glory, the dynamic power to motivate the inner self of man. SWAB#029 p061

This second call is founded upon the instructions and exhortations of the Lord and the admonitions and altruistic emotions belonging to the realm of morality which like unto a brilliant light, brighten and illumine the lamp of the realities of mankind. Its penetrative power is the Word of God. SWAB#225 p283

...the splendors of the Sun of Truth, the Word of God, have been the source and cause of human upbuilding and civilization. PUP.311

Its [the Word of God's] appearance in every mirror is conditioned by the color of the mirror. For instance, when its light is cast upon the mirrors of the hearts of the wise, it bringeth forth wisdom. In like manner when it manifesteth itself in the mirrors of the hearts of craftsmen, it unfoldeth new and unique arts, and when reflected in the hearts of those that apprehend the truth it revealeth wondrous tokens of true knowledge and discloseth the verities of God's utterance. (Baha'u'llah, in compilation on professions)




How does the Will of God become realized in creation? Why does it do so by means of a Revelator and a Revelation? We might be tempted to imagine it as a silent, invisible spiritual force that imperceptibly seeps into people's hearts. In fact, it is characteristically a very public kind of guidance. Cook, The Koran, p.14. [answer: Why didn't classical music emerge from the combined efforts of thousands of artists working over centuries? The role of genius: the artist vs. the revelator. Revelation is more akin to art than to science.]     What are the implications of higher criticism for our understanding of scripture?     Where is the meaning of the revealed Word to be located? Behind the text or in front of the text?     To what extent does the Word of God depend upon a sacred context to act as a vehicle of transmission?     Is there a connection between the rules of grammar and the metaphysical structure of creation (q.v. the Bab's treatise on grammar and William's article)     We still live in a global culture whose secular and scientific orientation puts strain not just on the particular claims of particular scriptures, but on the very idea of scripture. What sense could it make in a progressive, scientific world to attach indefeasible authority to the word of a god spoken in the past? Cook, p. 43.
