



The transcendent Word of God is sanctified beyond time. The past, the present, and the future are all equal in relation to God. Yesterday, today, and tomorrow do not exist in the sun. ...the reality of Christ, Who is the Word of God, undoubtedly precedes all created things in essence, in attributes, and in distinction. Before appearing in human form, the Word of God was in a state of utmost sanctity and glory, abiding in perfect beauty and splendour in the height of its majesty. SAQ#28.3-4 (was SAQ.116-117)

Now, the reality of prophethood, which is the Word of God and the state of perfect divine manifestation, has neither beginning nor end, but its radiance varies like that of the sun. SAQ#38.7 (was SAQ.152)

...the Word of God has always been, and will ever remain, in the loftiest heights of sanctity. SAQ#38.9 (was SAQ.153)

By this [the 'word'] we mean the all-comprehending reality and the depository of the infinite divine characteristics.  This 'word' has an honorary beginning and not a beginning of time....  In reality the 'word' has neither beginning nor ending. ADP.149

It (the Word) is the spirit of the Divine books and Scriptures. It has been from the beginning, and it shall continue to the end after which there is no end. It is the key to the most great treasury of the Lord and the concealed mystery of God, which hath been hidden behind the canopies of celestial infallibility. It is the alpha and omega prophesied by John. It is the first and the last, the manifest and the hidden. (Pilgrim notes of Ethel Rosenberg, 1904, p. 75)

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. John 1:1-5     This statement [John 1:1] is brief but replete with the greatest meanings. Its applications are illimitable and beyond the power of books or words to contain and express. PUP.154

You call us, then to understand the Word, the God that with you is God, who is spoken eternally and by whom all things are spoken eternally. Nor did you finish saying one thing and say another, so that all things might be spoken; you spoke them at once and eternally. Otherwise there would be time and change... (St. Augustine, Confessions 11.7.9)

In the Gospel it is said: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God." It follows then that Christ did not attain His Messianic station and His perfections at the moment of His baptism... SAQ#38.9 (was SAQ.153)




The transcendent Word of God is sanctified beyond time. The past, the present, and the future are all equal in relation to God. Yesterday, today, and tomorrow do not exist in the sun. ...the reality of Christ, Who is the Word of God, undoubtedly precedes all created things in essence, in attributes, and in distinction. Before appearing in human form, the Word of God was in a state of utmost sanctity and glory, abiding in perfect beauty and splendour in the height of its majesty. SAQ#28.3-4 (was SAQ.116-117)

The knowledge of a thing is not the cause of its occurrence; for the essential knowledge of God encompasses the realities of all things both before and after they come to exist, but it is not the cause of their existence. This is an expression of the perfection of God.... God's knowledge in the contingent world does not produce the forms of things. Rather, that knowledge is freed from the distinctions of past, present, and future, and is identical with the realization of all things without being the cause of that realization. SAQ#35.2-4 (was SAQ.138)

For God the beginning and the end are one and the same. Similarly, the reckoning of days, weeks, months, and years--of yesterday and today--is made with respect to the earth; but in the sun such things are unknown: There is neither yesterday, nor today, nor tomorrow, neither months nor years--all are equal. Likewise, the Word of God is sanctified above all these conditions and exalted beyond every law, constraint, or limitation that may exist in the contingent world. SAQ#38.4 (was SAQ.152)

In the world of God there is no past, present, or future: All of these are one. So when Christ said, "In the beginning was the Word," He meant that it was, is, and shall be; for in the world of God there is no time. SAQ#39.7 (was SAQ.156)

...that Essence of Oneness [dhat-i-ahadiyah], or divine Being, is eternal and everlasting--that is, as it has neither beginning nor end... SAQ#47.3 (was SAQ.180)

It was you who made that very time; nor could any periods of time pass by before you made them. But if no time existed before heaven and earth, why do they ask what you were doing then? There was no 'then' when there was no time. (St. Augustine, Confessions 11.13.15)

The first thing to emanate [sadir] from God is that universal reality which the ancient philosophers termed the "First Intellect" ['aql-i-avval] and which the people of Baha call the "Primal Will" [mashiyyat-i-avvaliyyih]. This emanation, with respect to its action in the world of God, is not limited by either time or place and has neither beginning nor end, for in relation to God the beginning and the end are one and the same. The pre-existence of God is both essential and temporal, while the origination of the contingent world is essential but not temporal, as we have already explained another day at table. Though the First Intellect is without beginning, this does not mean that it shares in the pre-existence of God, for in relation to the existence of God the existence of that universal Reality is mere nothingness--it cannot even be said to exist, let alone to partake of the pre-existence of God. SAQ#53.5-6 (was SAQ.203)

In the presence of God, there is no past, present, or future. There is an eternal now. (The Bab, related by Abdu'l-Baha, Diary of Ahmad Sohrab 2/25/1913)
