



Teaching is the source of Divine Confirmation. It is not sufficient to pray diligently for guidance, but this prayer must be followed by meditation as to the best methods of action and then action itself. Even if the action should not immediately produce results, or perhaps not be entirely correct, that does not make so much difference, because prayers can only be answered through action and if someone's action is wrong, God can use that method of showing that pathway which is right... LG#1508 (22 Aug. 1957 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

As to the fundamentals of teaching the Faith: know thou that delivering the Message can be accomplished only through goodly deeds and spiritual attributes, an utterance that is crystal clear and the happiness reflected from the face of that one who is expounding the Teachings. It is essential that the deeds of the teacher should attest the truth of his words. SWAB#146 p175

If a soul calls the people to the Kingdom of God according to the Teachings of Baha'u'llah, there will be many listeners. First, one must teach by deeds; then speak the word! One must become thirsty; then the salubrious Water be offered. No matter how delicious the Water is, one who is not thirsty will not enjoy it. Therefore, make ye an effort, so that the people may become thirsty; then cause them to quaff from the Divine Chalice. SW v04#01 p009 (Abdu'l-Baha, from a Tablet)

Without the spirit of real love for Baha'u'llah, for His Faith and its Institutions, and the believers for each other, the Cause can never really bring in large numbers of people. For it is not preaching and rules the world wants, but love and action. COC#1324, #1971, DG#190 (25 Oct. 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

It is primarily through the potency of noble deeds and character, rather than by the power of exposition and proofs, that the friends of God should demonstrate to the world that what has been promised by God is bound to happen, that it is already taking place and that the divine glad-tidings are clear, evident and complete. For unless some illustrious souls step forth into the arena of service and shine out resplendent in the assemblage of men, the task of vindicating the truth of this Cause before the eyes of enlightened people would be formidable indeed. However, if the friends become embodiments of virtue and good character, words and arguments will be superfluous. Their very deeds will well serve as eloquent testimony, and their noble conduct will ensure the preservation, integrity and glory of the Cause of God. COC#1267 (19 Dec. 1923 from Shoghi Effendi)

Through example, loving fellowship, prayer, and kindness the friends can attract the hearts of such people and enable them to realize that this is the Cause of God in deed, not merely words!... COC#1955 (24 Feb. 1943 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The beloved Guardian has stressed over and over again, that to effectively teach the Faith, the individual must study deeply, the Divine Word, imbibe Its life-giving waters, and feast upon Its glorious teachings. He should then meditate on the import of the Word, and finding its spiritual depths, pray for guidance and assistance. But most important, after prayer is action. After one has prayed and meditated, he must arise, relying fully on the guidance and confirmation of Baha'u'llah, to teach His Faith. Perseverance in action is essential, just as wisdom and audacity are necessary for effective teaching. The individual must sacrifice all things to this great goal, and then the victories will be won. COC#1995 (30 May 1956 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Belief, in order to be truly effective, must be translated into action; and there is no action which is the source of divine confirmations so much as teaching the Baha'i Faith. (26 Dec. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

Should your words, O people, be at variance with your deeds, what then shall distinguish you from those who profess their faith in the Lord, their God, and yet, when He came down to them overshadowed with clouds, rejected Him and waxed proud before God, the Incomparable, the Omniscient? SLH#147

To live to teach in the present day is like being martyred in those early days. It is the spirit that moves us that counts, not the act through which that spirit expresses itself; and that spirit is to serve the Cause of God with our heart and soul. COC#1276 (3 Aug. 1932 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)




It is at such times that the friends of God avail themselves of the occasion, seize the opportunity, rush forth and win the prize. If their task is to be confined to good conduct and advice, nothing will be accomplished. They must speak out, expound the proofs, set forth clear arguments, draw irrefutable conclusions establishing the truth of the manifestation of the Sun of Reality. SWAB#212 p268, Ruhi6.2.19
