



...man can never hope to attain unto the knowledge of the All-Glorious, can never quaff from the stream of divine knowledge and wisdom, can never enter the abode of immortality, nor partake of the cup of divine nearness and favor, unless and until he ceases to regard the words and deeds of mortal men as a standard for the true understanding and recognition of God and His Prophets. KI#002 p003-004

Say: O leaders of religion! Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and sciences as are current amongst you, for the Book itself is the unerring Balance established amongst men. In this most perfect Balance whatsoever the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must be weighed, while the measure of its weight should be tested according to its own standard, did ye but know it. KA#099, ESW.128, GWB#098 p198 (but cf. PT#44:18) [qawa'id wa'l-ulum implies jurisprudential rules not modern science]

This is the infallible Balance which the Hand of God is holding, in which all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth are weighed, and their fate determined, if ye be of them that believe and recognize this truth. Say: Through it the poor have been enriched, the learned enlightened, and the seekers enabled to ascend unto the presence of God. Beware, lest ye make it a cause of dissension amongst you. KA#183, GWB#070 p136-137

Blind thine eyes, that thou mayest behold My beauty; stop thine ears, that thou mayest hearken unto the sweet melody of My voice; empty thyself of all learning, that thou mayest partake of My knowledge; and sanctify thyself from riches, that thou mayest obtain a lasting share from the ocean of My eternal wealth. PHW#11

If the wayfarers be among them that dwell in the court of the All-Praised, this is the station of the Intellect ('aql), which is known as the messenger of the realm of the body and the most great pillar. That which is intended, however, is the universal divine Intellect ('aql-i-kulliy-i-rabbaniy), whose sovereignty fostereth the growth of all things, and not every vain and feeble mind. CDB#7.15 (was SV.52) This station is that of the true standard (mizan) of knowledge and the final end of tests and trials. Nor is it needed, in this realm, to seek after knowledge, for He hath said concerning the guidance of wayfarers on this plane, "Fear ye God; God will teach you" [Qur'an 2:282], and again, "Knowledge ('ilm) is a light which God casteth into the heart of whomsoever He willeth [Hadith]." CDB#7.18 (was SV.53-54)

Give ear unto the verses of God which He Who is the sacred Lote-Tree reciteth unto you. They are assuredly the infallible balance, established by God, the Lord of this world and the next. Through them the soul of man is caused to wing its flight towards the Dayspring of Revelation, and the heart of every true believer is suffused with light. Such are the laws which God hath enjoined upon you, such His commandments prescribed unto you in His Holy Tablet; obey them with joy and gladness, for this is best for you, did ye but know. KA#148

God's standards are different from those of men. M63-86 18.2, Ruhi6.3.27 (13 Jul. 1964 from the Universal House of Justice)

It is a human tendency, against which the Manifestation warns us, to measure His statements against the inaccurate standard of the acquired knowledge of mankind. We tend to take them and place them within one or other of the existing categories of human philosophy or science while, in reality, they transcend these and will, if properly understood, open new and vast horizons to our understanding. M63-86 330.5 (3 Jun. 1982 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

Let us be on our guard lest we measure too strictly the Divine Plan with the standard of men. I am not prepared to state that it agrees in principle or in method with the prevailing notions now uppermost in men's minds, nor that it should conform with those imperfect, precarious, and expedient measures feverishly resorted to by agitated humanity. Are we to doubt that the ways of God are not necessarily the ways of man? BA.062

Now, as to the question of method raised by Dr. Piper. The Baha'is of course, who believe in the doctrine of Divine Revelation cannot share the belief of the positivists and the so called modern thinkers according to whom man is the sole criterion of truth. Baha'u'llah, just as all the Prophets who have preceded Him, maintains that truth is one and that the source from which it proceeds is one, namely God Himself. To the Baha'is, therefore, the Revealed Word is the balance, the infallible balance, by which truth can be distinguished from error. The human mind is too limited, too impotent to be able, all alone, to understand the purpose and plan of God for His creation. The source of ultimate guidance, therefore, is the Prophet. His word is infallible. If it seems to be in conflict with prevailing notions and standards, this is no sufficient reason to justify us to repudiate it. Rather we should endeavor to so direct our methods of investigation as to be able to reach the very same conclusions the Prophet has arrived at. (20 Dec. 1936 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)
