



Methinks they have been moulded from the clay of infinite knowledge, and kneaded with the water of divine wisdom. Therefore, hath it been said: 'Knowledge ('ilm) is a light which God casteth into the heart of whomsoever He willeth.' It is this kind of knowledge which is and hath ever been praiseworthy, and not the limited knowledge that hath sprung forth from veiled and obscured minds. This limited knowledge they even stealthily borrow one from the other, and vainly pride themselves therein! KI#048 p046

To seek evidence, when the Proof hath been established is but an unseemly act, and to be busied with the pursuit of knowledge when the Object of all learning hath been attained is truly blameworthy. KI#155 p147

We beg them not to depend upon their intellect, their comprehension and learning, nor to contend with the Revealer of celestial and infinite knowledge. KI#278 p248

'The most grievous of all veils is the veil of knowledge ('ilm).' Upon its ashes, We have reared the tabernacle of divine knowledge. We have, praised be to God, burned the 'veils of glory' with the fire of the beauty of the Best-Beloved.... We cleave to no knowledge but His Knowledge, and set our hearts on naught save the effulgent glories of His light. KI#205 p188

Inasmuch as they have not apprehended the meaning of Knowledge ('ilm), and have called by that name those images fashioned by their own fancy and which have sprung from the embodiments of ignorance, they therefore have inflicted upon the Source of Knowledge that which thou hast heard and witnessed. KI#202 p184

It is evident and manifest unto every discerning observer that even as the light of the star fadeth before the effulgent splendour of the sun, so doth the luminary of earthly knowledge, of wisdom, and understanding vanish into nothingness when brought face to face with the resplendent glories of the Sun of Truth, the Day-star of divine enlightenment. KI#035 p035

These are theoretical arguments adduced for weak souls; but if the eye of inner vision be opened, a hundred thousand clear proofs will be seen. Thus, when man feels the indwelling spirit he is in no need of arguments for its existence; but for those who are deprived of the grace of the spirit it is necessary to set forth external arguments. SAQ#2.8 (was SAQ.006)

The all-encompassing must assuredly be greater than that which is encompassed, and thus the latter can in no wise discover the former or comprehend its reality. No matter how far human minds may advance, even attaining the highest degree of human comprehension, the uttermost limit of this comprehension is to behold the signs and attributes of God in the world of creation and not in the realm of Divinity.... It is evident that whatsoever man understands is a consequence of his existence, and that man is a sign of the All-Merciful: How then can the consequence of the sign encompass the Creator of the sign? That is, how can human understanding, which is a consequence of man's existence, comprehend God?... It is evident that if we attempt to conceive the reality of the Divinity, that conception would be encompassed and our mind would be that which encompasses it--and assuredly that which encompasses is greater than that which is encompassed! SAQ#37.2-9 (was SAQ.146-147,149)

No matter how far human minds may advance, even attaining the highest degree of human comprehension, the uttermost limit of this comprehension is to behold the signs and attributes of God in the world of creation and not in the realm of Divinity. SAQ#37.2 (was SAQ.146)

Having recognized thy powerlessness to attain to an adequate understanding of that Reality which abideth within thee, thou wilt readily admit the futility of such efforts ... to fathom the mystery of the Living God.... This confession of helplessness which mature contemplation must eventually impel every mind to make is in itself the acme of human understanding, and marketh the culmination of man's development. GWB#083 p165-166

...the reality of Divinity in its identity is beyond the range of human intellection because the human mind, the human intellect, the human thought are limited, whereas the reality of Divinity is unlimited. How can the limited grasp the unlimited and transcend it? Impossible. The unlimited always comprehends the limited. The limited can never comprehend, surround nor take in the unlimited. Therefore, every concept of Divinity which has come within the intellection of a human being is finite, or limited, and is a pure product of imagination, whereas the reality of Divinity is holy and sacred above and beyond all such concepts. PUP.422

The divine sciences of knowledge are stored in the repositories of words, except such sciences as are specialized to His Exalted Essence and which none are able to attain... (Baha'u'llah, provisional translation, MA1.062)

Regarding your question concerning a deep and profound study of the teachings: of course the Baha'is can and should meditate upon the significances of the writings, and endeavour to grasp their meaning to the utmost.... However certain things are, by their very nature, a mystery to us, at least in our present stage of development. One of these is what the next world, the purely spiritual world, is like.         To try and visualize that realm in the terms of this physical one is absolutely impossible. 'Abdu'l-Baha has likened the relation of our souls in this world to our future life after death with the babe in its Mother's womb. All the faculties the infant is developing are, in the womb, absolutely useless to it. However, when it is born, it suddenly discovers their use, uses its eyes, its ears, hands, lungs, etc. in its new environment. Nor could the baby have possibly visualized its life after birth, while still unborn. So we cannot possibly understand or visualize what the condition and state of the future, purely spiritual, world is. To say it has time, space, and so on, is to delineate it by terms applicable to this material world and alien to that spiritual one.         The Guardian feels that, while there is no harm in speculation on these abstract matters, one should not attach too much importance to them. Science itself is far from having resolved the question of the nature of matter, and we cannot, in this physical world, grasp the spiritual one more than in a very fragmentary and inadequate manner. LG#700 (1st paragraph), LG#702 (last para.) (19 Jan. 1942 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

The Baha'i Faith is the Revelation of Baha'u'llah: His Own Words as interpreted by 'Abdu'l-Baha and the Guardian. It is a Revelation of such staggering magnitude that no Baha'i at this early stage in Baha'i history can rightly claim to have more than a partial and imperfect understanding of it. M63-86 217.7 (3 January 1979 from the Research Department)

Your sciences shall not profit you in this day, nor your arts, nor your treasures, nor your glory.  Cast then all behind your backs, and set your faces towards the Most Sublime Word through which the Scriptures and the Books and this lucid Tablet have been distinctly set forth. ESW.097-098

...human reason, as already pointed out, is by its very nature finite and faulty in conclusions.  It cannot surround the Reality Itself, the Infinite Word. PUP.022

All that the sages and mystics have said or written have never exceeded, nor can they ever hope to exceed, the limitations to which man's finite mind hath been strictly subjected. To whatever heights the mind of the most exalted of men may soar, however great the depths which the detached and understanding heart can penetrate, such mind and heart can never transcend that which is the creature of their own conceptions and the product of their own thoughts. The meditations of the profoundest thinker, the devotions of the holiest of saints, the highest expressions of praise from either human pen or tongue, are but a reflection of that which hath been created within themselves, through the revelation of the Lord, their God. Whoever pondereth this truth in his heart will readily admit that there are certain limits which no human being can possibly transgress. GWB#148 p317-318

For some hold fast to reason ('aql) and deny whatever reason comprehendeth not, and yet feeble minds can never grasp the reality of the stages that we have related: The universal divine Intellect alone can comprehend them. 'How can feeble reason embrace the Qur'anOr the spider snare a phoenix in its web?' CDB#2.68-69 (was SV.33)

...whatsoever can be conceived by man is a reality that hath limitations and is not unlimited; it is circumscribed, not all-embracing. It can be comprehended by man, and is controlled by him. Forel.15

...human reason is not to be relied upon as an infallible criterion. PUP.021

...human reason ... is by its very nature finite and faulty in conclusion.  It cannot surround the Reality Itself, the Infinite Word. PUP.022

No matter how far the human intelligence may advance, it is still but a drop, while divine omniscience is the ocean. PUP.066

By mere intellectual development and power of reason, man cannot attain to his fullest degree--that is to say, by means of intellect alone he cannot accomplish the progress effected by religion. For the philosophers of the past strove in vain to revivify the world of mankind through the intellectual faculty. The most of which they were capable was educating themselves and a limited number of disciples; they themselves have confessed failure. Therefore, the world of humanity must be confirmed by the breath of the Holy Spirit in order to receive universal education. PUP.170

Things which are understood by men cannot be outside their capacity for understanding, so that it is impossible for the heart of man to comprehend the nature of the Majesty of God. Our imagination can only picture that which it is able to create. PT#05:6 p023

...philosophy and science will not suffice to elevate and civilize a people... Philosophy of necessity is restricted to a small school and cannot have an essentially moral influence. ADP.089-090

...scientific statements and theories ... are in their very nature ephemeral and limited. (21 Jul. 1968 from the House of Justice, Compilation on Scholarship #70)

...whenever a statement is made through the lens of human understanding it is thereby limited, for human understanding is limited; and where there is limitation there is the possibility of error; and where there is error, conflicts can arise. For example, at the present time many people are convinced that it is unscientific to believe in God... (26 Dec. 1975 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Compilation on Scholarship #48)

Baha'u'llah has said that learning can be the veil between the soul of man and the eternal truth; in other words, between man and the knowledge of God. We have seen that many people who become very advanced in the study of modern physical sciences are led to deny God, and to deny His Prophets. LG#1822 (22 Apr. 1954 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi)

When reason is left to its own devices, it recognizes at best a God who is infinitely distant and difficult of access. Sufis accepted this point of view, but they insisted that it had to be complemented by another point of view, according to which God is 'with you wherever you are,' as the Qur'an puts it. Presence, in short, is just as important as absence; the divine immanence [tashbih] is every bit as real as the divine transcendence [tanzih]. (Chittick, intro to al-Ghazali's Mishkatu'l-Anwar, p. xii)

...discursive thought, in order to express anything in words, has to consider one thing after another: this is the method of description; but how can one describe the absolutely simple? ... One must believe one has seen, when the soul suddenly takes light... Plotinus, Enn.V.3.17

Know then that the Lord God possesseth invisible realms which the human intellect can never hope to fathom nor the mind of man conceive. SWAB#156 p185

All that God's intimate servants may express of His knowledge (ma'rifat) is the knowledge of His creation ('ibda'), which is the divine appearance (tajalla) in the station of His dominion (mulk). This is the extent of knowledge which is possible in the contingent world. (the Bab, Tafsir al-Ha, provisional translation, AvK1.031)

Now concerning the Essence of Divinity (haqiqat-i-iluhiyyat): in truth it is on no account determined by anything apart from its own nature, and can in no wise be comprehended. For whatsoever can be conceived by man is a reality that hath limitations and is not unlimited; it is circumscribed, not all-embracing. Forel.15

So perfect and comprehensive is His creation that no mind nor heart, however keen or pure, can ever grasp the nature of the most insignificant of His creatures; much less fathom the mystery of Him Who is the Day Star of Truth, Who is the invisible and unknowable Essence. The conceptions of the devoutest of mystics, the attainments of the most accomplished amongst men, the highest praise which human tongue or pen can render are all the product of man's finite mind and are conditioned by its limitations. GWB#026 p062

No man can ever claim to have comprehended the nature of the hidden and manifold grace of God; none can fathom His all-embracing mercy. GWB#032 p076

The teacher of material principles is limited. The philosophers who claimed to be the educators of mankind were at most only able to train themselves. If they educated others, it was within a restricted circle; they failed to bestow general education and development. This has been confirmed upon humanity by the power of the Holy Spirit. PUP.205

Such conclusive truth hath been revealed through the gaze of the heart (fu'ad), and not that of intellect. For intellect conceives not save limited things. Verily, bound by the realm of limitations, men are unable to gaze upon things simultaneously in their manifold aspects. Thus it is perplexing for them to comprehend that lofty station. No one can recognize the truth of the Middle Way between the two extreme poles except after attaining unto the gate of the heart and beholding the realities of the worlds, visible and unseen. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.177)

Indeed, all who have endeavoured to explain the problem of Destiny have advocated either absolute divine determinism or human choice, and thus all the philosophers have confessed their powerlessness to explain the truth of this question. Indeed, this verily is the truth, inasmuch as the philosophers wanted to explain the divine truth, the Middle Path between absolute determinism and absolute freedom, by proofs of reason, which is, however, impossible. For, verily, reason, even in its utmost level of abstraction, is confined to understanding mere limited phenomenona, which fail to guide humans unto the summit of the delight of their heart. Thus, he who abideth upon the throne of the kingdom of reason hath no recourse but to believe in either determinism or absolute freedom. (The Bab, provisional translation, GOH.211)

There is the idea that there are no unknowable unknowns -- but rather an endless parade of unknown unknowns -- of one scientific and intellectual advance leading to another. A recent version of this appeared in a Freeman Dyson article in the New York Review of Books. Dyson is taking Steven Weinberg (a physicist and Nobel laureate) to task for his claim that someday we will be able to know everything. "Our ape-brains and tool-making hands were marvelously effective for solving a limited class of puzzles. Weinberg expects the same brains and hands to illuminate far broader areas of nature with the same clarity. I would be disappointed if nature could be so easily tamed. I find the idea of a Final Theory repugnant because it diminishes both the richness of nature and the richness of human destiny. I prefer to live in a universe full of inexhaustible mysteries, and to belong to a species destined for inexhaustible intellectual growth."     Indeed. What on earth would make us believe that "our ape-brains and tool-making hands" could give us access to certain knowledge? Or to absolute truth? We pursue truth but have no guarantee of finding it. As Noam Chomsky has written, "We are after all biological organisms not angels . . . If humans are part of the natural world, not supernatural beings, then human intelligence has its scope and limits, determined by initial design. We can thus anticipate certain questions will not fall within [our] cognitive reach, just as rats are unable to run mazes with numerical properties, lacking the appropriate concepts. Such questions, we might call 'mysteries-for-humans' just as some questions pose 'mysteries-for-rats.' Among these mysteries may be questions we raise, and others we do not know how to formulate properly or at all."     http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/06/24/the-anosognosics-dilemma-somethings-wrong-but-youll-never-know-what-it-is-part-5/

...the principle of harmony between religion and science, while it enables us, with the help of reason, to see through the falsity of superstitions, does not imply that truth is limited to what can be explained by current scientific concepts. Not only do all religions have their miracles and mysteries, but religion itself, and certain fundamental religious concepts, such as the nature of the Manifestations of God, are far from being explicable by present-day scientific theories. (16 Feb. 1996 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

Man often lacks the understanding to fathom the wisdom of some of the ordinances which are not to his liking. It therefore becomes a matter of demonstration of the depth of his faith when he is faced with a divine command the wisdom and rationale of which he cannot at that time understand. (3 Mar. 1987 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice)

The second criterion is that of the intellect, which was the principal criterion of comprehension for those pillars of wisdom, the ancient philosophers. They deduced things through the power of the mind and relied on rational arguments: All their arguments are based upon reason. But despite this, they diverged greatly in their opinions. They would even change their own views: For twenty years they would deduce the existence of something through rational arguments, and then afterwards they would disprove the same, again through rational arguments. Even Plato at first proved through rational arguments the immobility of the earth and the movement of the sun, and then subsequently established, again through rational arguments, the centrality of the sun and the movement of the earth. Then the Ptolemaic theory became widespread, and Plato's theory was entirely forgotten until a modern astronomer revived it. Thus have the mathematicians disagreed among themselves, even though they all relied on rational arguments. Likewise, at one time they would establish a thing by rational arguments and disprove it at another, again by rational arguments. So a philosopher would firmly uphold a view for a time and adduce a range of proofs and arguments to support it, and afterwards he would change his mind and contradict his former position by rational arguments. It is therefore evident that the criterion of reason is imperfect, as proven by the disagreements existing between the ancient philosophers as well as by their want of consistency and their propensity to change their own views. For if the criterion of intellect were perfect, all should have been united in their thoughts and agreed in their opinions. SAQ#83.3-5 (was SAQ.297-298)

The human intellect is in truth the most mighty sign of God... Thou beholdest, however, that notwithstanding his lofty and sublime position, man is incapable of apprehending the reality of created things, for the chief instrument whereby human understanding can function is the power of vision. Unless the eye seeth the palm tree, the mind will not envisage the realm of fruits, leaves, branches and twigs that lie enfolded in the seed. (Provisional translation, BH00035)




Heed not the idle contention of those who maintain that the Book and verses thereof can never be a testimony unto the common people, inasmuch as they neither grasp their meaning nor appreciate their value.... Were it beyond the comprehension of men, how could it have been declared as a universal testimony unto all people?... The understanding of His words and the comprehension of the utterances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise dependent upon human learning. They depend solely upon purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit. KI#232 p210-211

And how many of the ignorant who, by reason of their acceptance of the Faith, have soared aloft and attained the high summit of knowledge, and whose names have been inscribed by the Pen of Power upon the Tablet of divine Knowledge. KI#155 p146

Thus will these mysteries be unravelled, not by the aid of acquired learning, but solely through the assistance of God and the outpourings of His grace. KI#212 p192

...how can he that faileth in the day of God's Revelation to attain unto the grace of the 'Divine Presence' and to recognize His Manifestation, be justly called learned, though he may have spent æons in the pursuit of knowledge...? Whereas, the most unlettered of all men, if he be honoured with this supreme distinction, he verily is accounted as one of those divinely-learned men whose knowledge is of God; for such a man hath attained the acme of knowledge ('ilm), and hath reached the furthermost summit of learning. KI#154 p145-146
