
I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through which Thou didst manifest Thyself unto Moses on the Mount of Thy knowledge and unto Abraham in the fire of Thy love, to make me in all conditions detached from all else save Thee and holding fast unto the cord of Thy bounty. BH04576

Then after him We sent forth the Friend (Abraham) and gave him ten scrolls from Our presence and sent him to Nimrod and his chiefs to remind them of the days of God and guide them to this clear and luminous path. He said: "O people! God hath sent me to you and hath sent down unto me from His presence verses of mighty exaltation. Differ not concerning His Cause and follow not the ways of those who join partners with Him. Answer God's summoner among you and be not of the heedless." They made God's Cause an object of mockery and were not among the believers, until We destroyed Nimrod and his people and made the Friend an enduring Word from Our presence among the worlds. BH00705

through the might of Abraham, shattered the idol of vain imaginings   BH11400

His Holiness Abraham uprooted the mighty idols and proclaimed the oneness of God  AB10892

Always, from the earliest ages, the conception of the Trinity hath been present. In the time of Moses, the ides of the Trinity was shown in (1) God, (2) the speaker of Mount Sinai, and (3) The Fire (which corresponds to our idea of the Holy Spirit). In the time of Abraham, this thought was represented by Abraham, the Angels, and God. As an illustration of the Trinity, take light and illumination, there is the light-giver, the Sun (God) the light-receiver, and the ray of light connecting the two. Again there is the giver of the bounty, the receiver of the bounty and the bounty which is the Holy Spirit.  ABU2649

Abraham was forced far from His homeland, but that remoteness became the cause of joy  AB01183

You have asked concerning the relations and genealogy of the mother of 'Abdu'l-Baha. The father and grandfather went to Persia from the regions of Taif, and the inhabitants of those regions are all, with very few exceptions, descendents of the posterity of Ishmael.  AB11100

"Verily We have aided the children of Abraham in this Most Great Revelation and guided them to My Straight Path"  BH04654

The children of the Friend [Abraham] and the heirs of Him Who conversed with God [Moses] are mentioned in the presence of the Wronged One.  BH09671

Later, the beauty of the countenance of the Friend of God appeared from behind the veil, and another standard of divine guidance was hoisted.  BH00002

Abraham's migration precipitated the manifestation and appearance of Moses, Christ, Muhammad, the Exalted One [i.e. the Bab] and Baha'u'llah.   ABU1995

God willing, may you be enabled through divine grace to attain unto that which is beloved in this day before the Lord of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.   BH07529

O God, my God! Would that a thousand Ishmaels were given Me, this Abraham of Thine, that I might have offered them, each and all, as a loving sacrifice unto Thee.  BBU0007

This is like Ishmael who is multiple - one is Ishmael the son of Abraham and another is Ishmael who was among the prophets of Israel and is mentioned in the Qur'an.   AB04330

Behold and call to mind when the Friend, through the power of the Glorious One, turned toward the abode of the idols in the name of His Lord, the Lord of all mankind.   BH09603

According to the belief of the followers of the Qur'an, His Holiness Ishmael, or according to the explicit texts of the Torah, His Holiness Isaac, hastened to the altar of sacrifice with the utmost joy  AB09967

I inquired as to the genealogy of Baha'u'llah, and 'Abdu'l-Baha said that He was of Abraham's blood -- not through Isaac or Ishmael, but through one of his other sons by Katurah by whom he had six sons.   ABU3542

From the noble lineage of His Holiness Abraham arose souls whose countenances illumined the horizons and whose fragrance perfumed the world. They became lamps of guidance and waves of the ocean of truth.  AB02495

Although this request came from the tongue of the people, yet Abraham attained complete faith in the Glorious Lord... Otherwise Abraham was illustrious, a soul at rest, pleasing and pleased, a holy soul.   AB00589

Know thou that when Ishmael, son of the Friend of the All-Merciful, desired to set foot in the wilderness of love that he might reach the Sinai of divine nearness - which is the station of complete sacrifice - at the moment he intended to proceed to his destination, he observed one adorned in the garments of knowledge and piety. This person drew near to Dhabih [Ishmael] and, with utmost cunning, sought to prevent him from the places of divine destiny and to turn him aside from that which he had intended. When that Luminary of the horizons caught the odor of hypocrisy from him, he informed the Friend of the All-Merciful [Abraham], who said: "O son, pay no heed to him for this is Satan. Beware of his deception and take refuge in the protection of the King of Grandeur. Choose thy dwelling in the secure abode which is the precinct of divine protection." When that lover of the Beauty of the All-Glorious heard the melody of the Friend of the All-Merciful, he drove him away and took refuge in God's protection. BH02037

When Abraham was expelled from his homeland, the True One addressed him saying "Do not grieve, I shall give you the best lands of the world - a part grows roses, another piece violets, elsewhere basil, and in another narcissus."  ABU0983

Blessed are you who, like your illustrious ancestor the blessed Abraham, are hospitable to guests... that the Abrahamic tree may yield divine fruits and fragrant flowers may appear in the rose garden of His Holiness Abraham.   AB06713

Abraham was born in Mesopotamia of a family that was ignorant of the oneness of God; He opposed His own people and government, and even His own kin; He rejected all their gods; and, alone and single-handedly, He withstood a powerful nation.   AB00556

Thus when his holiness Abraham, the Friend of God, was eager to attain the infinite perfections of the All Merciful One, He, therefore, sought the increased realization of all Lordly conditions. In particular, He sought the raising of the dead.  AB04958

When the honored Abraham was suspended in the air, the great angel came to him and asked "Hast thou any need?" He replied "Not from thee!" This word set all ablaze - weakness was transformed to strength, silence to speech, and muteness to utterance.   BH02221

Today Abraham is a compassionate father in great joy and gladness. Isaac gives glad tidings to the horizons from the Abha Kingdom. Israel sees his lineage as glorious. Joseph considers Jacob's descendants as characterized by guidance and divine gifts.  AB11837

O family of His Holiness the Illustrious Abraham! Give praise that in this wondrous Dispensation you have become verses of guidance and manifestations of the bounty of the Abha Beauty. You have become birds in the rose garden of divine unity and hosts in the field of sanctification, confirmed by the grace of the Lord of Hosts. Encompassed by the glances of the favors of His Holiness the One, you have opened the gates of recognition, traveled the paths of certitude, entered the tabernacle of martyrdom, and made your dwelling and abode in the Holy of Holies of God. You have become priests of the House of the Lord and have offered heavenly blessings. This is the gift of God, this is the grace of the All-Merciful, this is the divine promise to His Holiness Abraham, peace be upon him. Truly you are descendants of that illustrious personage and progeny of that beautiful master.  AB04760

O descendant of the illustrious Abraham! That noble one was the prince of the righteous and the leader of the free. He offered a prayer on behalf of his progeny, saying: O Lord, make my offspring distinguished, and O Kind One, make my descendants honored throughout the world.  AB11487

Although Abraham was exiled from his native land, that exile was a paradise of delight and a great triumph, for through it the verses of guidance were spread abroad and the lights of the Concourse on High dawned forth, and he became the manifestation of the confirmations of the Glorious Lord.  AB07949

Your namesake in the field of sacrifice proclaimed "O my father! Do what thou art commanded. Thou wilt find me, if God so willeth, of the steadfast," and attained unto "We ransomed him with a mighty sacrifice." In that instance a lamb was offered as a sacrifice at the altar of Isma'il, peace be upon him.  AB04778

Therefore, O thou who seekest to behold the countenance of the Chosen Beauty, become as Abraham, the Friend of God in his sacrifice, and freely give thy life like Ishmael, that thou mayest find the gates of bounty opened from every direction and behold the favors of the King of Oneness like a brilliant light  AB09372

Consider the case of Abraham. Had He not been exiled, He would not have received that greatest blessing; neither a Jacob nor an Isaac would have risen; the fame of the beauty of Joseph would not have been spread throughout the world. He would not have become the ruler of Egypt; no Moses would have appeared; no Muhammad, the divine Messenger, would have come.  ABU1755

O thou who art illumined by the fire of guidance and the light of Abraham! When Nimrod the obstinate sought to destroy that Essence of being and bring him to naught, he kindled the fire of envy, and it consumed his own household and lineage and the very foundations of that denier. But for His Holiness Abraham it became a glorious rose-garden and the cause of incomparable outpourings.  AB08223

Indeed it was sent down before in the Qur'an: "And We ransomed him with a mighty sacrifice." This was revealed when Abraham desired to fulfill what he had witnessed in his vision from his Lord, that there is none other God but He, the All-Subduing, the Self-Subsisting. When he desired to fulfill his Lord's command regarding his son, God sent down from His presence a ransom for him, as a grace from His presence.   BB00243

Verily it was revealed aforetime in the Furqan: "And We ransomed him with a mighty sacrifice." This was revealed at the time when Abraham desired to follow what he had witnessed in his vision from his Lord - that there is no God but Him, the Supreme, the Self-Subsisting. When he desired to follow the command of his Lord regarding his son, God sent down from His presence a ransom for him, as a grace from His presence.   BB00243

By what means would Joseph of Canaan have risen from the depths of the well to the heights of the moon? How would Moses have beheld the burning fire in the Sinai tree? How would He have been sent forth with the manifest serpent and the white hand? How would the people of Israel have become dominant over Judea, Palestine and Galilee? From where would the carpet of Solomon have been spread? Where would the kingdom of David have been established?  AB01297

Among the great Prophets was Abraham, Who, being an iconoclast and a Herald of the oneness of God, was banished from His native land. He founded a family upon which the blessing of God descended, and it was owing to this religious basis and ordination that the Abrahamic house progressed and advanced. Through the divine benediction noteworthy and luminous prophets issued from His lineage. There appeared Isaac, Ishmael, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Aaron, David and Solomon.  ABU0015

When the fire of Nimrod's tyranny was aflame and the decree to burn the temple of the Friend of that time - may our soul be a sacrifice for Him - issued forth from that dayspring of polytheism, there appeared from His Holiness that whose fragrance shall never cease from the worlds of inner meanings, utterance, wisdom and knowledge. When they suspended Him in the fire, Gabriel, by God's command, came to Him and asked: "Hast thou any need?" He replied: "No, not of thee."   BH02254

Therefore both Isaac and Ishmael were sacrificed, indeed all the servants of God, and this is one of the stations that is among the requirements of the stars of unity. Furthermore, in the station of unity, Ishmael and Isaac have the status of one being - the title of each may be applied to the other. However in the Torah Isaac is mentioned, and likewise in the traditions of His Holiness the Messenger there is mention of Isaac and also mention of Ishmael - both of them. This servant mentioned Ishmael according to the convention of the people, since on the tongues and lips of the people of the Furqan [Quran] Ishmael is mentioned, therefore correspondingly in the course of the exposition each of the loved ones of God who are named Ishmael were guided to this most glorious and exalted station.  AB01264

And furthermore, in the letter of the noble Haji Kamalu'd-Din, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, Dr. Hezekiel Haim had posed two questions. First, he mentioned that in previous Books the sacrifice of God was Isaac, while in the Qur'an this station was revealed in the name of Ishmael, meaning that the station of being God's sacrifice is recorded in the Qur'an in his name. What he asks is the truth without doubt, but all souls must fix their gaze upon the Word that has dawned from the horizon of divine utterance, and every soul must ponder its sovereignty, its penetrating influence, its power and its all-encompassing nature. There is no doubt that these matters have been realized and established through the Word of God, and the Word of God is the overseer of all things. It is the creator of the world and the educator of the world. It is that which summons those who thirst in the valley of separation to the ocean of reunion, and it is that which illumines the darkness of ignorance with the dawn of knowledge. Consider how all people who lived in the past affirmed that Isaac was the sacrifice, and likewise the followers of the Qur'an have affirmed this station for Ishmael, even though it is clear and evident to every person of insight and understanding that, outwardly, no sacrifice actually took place, and by universal agreement, it was an animal that was sacrificed. Now ponder what is the cause and reason that one who went to the altar of the Friend and was not sacrificed was honored with the mantle of being God's sacrifice and attained the ornament of divine acceptance. There is no doubt that it was through the Word of God that he attained this station and was honored with this most great bestowal. Therefore, the appearance, manifestation, establishment and realization of all names, things and stations depend upon and are contingent on the Word of God. Likewise, there is no doubt that the Unknowable Essence does not speak directly, for It has been and ever will be sanctified above known conditions and mentioned signs. Rather, It speaks through the tongue of Its Manifestations, just as the Torah was revealed through the tongue of Moses, and God, exalted be His glory, mentioned all the laws of that time through the tongue of Him Who conversed with God. The same is true of other Holy Books which outwardly appeared from the tongue of the Prophets and Messengers, while in all cases the Speaker and Utterer was God - exalted be His glory, universal be His bounty, mighty be His power, and great be His station. From what has been mentioned, it is established and proven that the station of being God's sacrifice was bestowed upon Isaac according to what is in previous Books through the word of Abraham, peace be upon him, and that same word appeared and became manifest in the Qur'anic Dispensation from the Dawning-Place of divine verses and the Dayspring of divine revelation regarding Ishmael.  BH00091