
God does not change. He is the unchangeable, the Immutable.   ABU0969

He was self-sufficient above whatsoever hath appeared in what was and shall be.  BH05043

Thou hast power to do what Thou willest, and Thou ordainest what Thou pleasest.   BH07658

He createth whatsoever He willeth by His command. Verily, He hath power over all things.   BB00232

God createth what He willeth through His command, and God is the Preserver of all things.  BB00004

He alone with no partner in His Essence, attributes, names, deeds, effusions and manifestations   AB06783

Verily Thou art the Almighty over what Thou willest and in Thy grasp are the reins of all things.   BH03592

Thou createst what Thou willest through Thy power and ordainest what Thou desirest through Thy will.   BH09416

God is independent of all that is in the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them.  BB00004

Were He to pronounce darkness to be light, or light to be darkness, none hath the right to object.   BH08327

He is the One Who standeth supreme over His Cause, doing as He willeth, and none can question His doings.  BH11867

God existed before the world and without it. He is completely independent of it and is Himself unchanging.  ABU0017

Thy Self is independent of Thy Self, how much more so the souls of Thy creation or the deeds of Thy servants!  BB00011

that universal reality and all-encompassing aspect is the absolutely wealthy, perceiving and choosing by will  ABU2461

God hath not revealed a single letter except for His Own Self, and He desireth naught for anyone save Himself.  BB00004

Thou hast ever been one God, single, unique, eternal, self-subsisting. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son   BB00391

Exalted is God, thy Lord and the Lord of all things, above whatsoever hath been sent down and shall be sent down   BB00392

There are no words except the words of God; efface therefore the conditions of your own selves if ye wish to be guided.  BB00004

He hath ever been One from all eternity and powerful over whatsoever He willeth...Verily Thou art powerful over what Thou willest.   BH04237

Thus have We adorned thee with the two wings of wisdom and utterance that thou mayest soar therewith unto the Mighty, the Bestower.   BH07832

Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, nor hadst Thou any partner in what Thou hast created, nor any protector in what Thou hast fashioned.   BB00286

Unto God belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them. He shall spend as He willeth through His mercy.   BB00500

The Jews said "God's hand is chained up." Say: No, by His very Self, the True One! Indeed He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth.   BH11450

The Command is in God's hands. He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth. And He is the Single, the One, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.  BH04901

Thou art He Whom the doubts of the heedless and the signs of the opposers cannot hinder. Thou doest what Thou willest and ordainest what Thou pleasest   BH04756

Do ye see any creator other than God, if ye but know? Do ye witness any besides God, if ye but remember? He is the Truth. There is none other God but Him.  BB00004

He is the One God, Single, Self-Sufficient, Whom the support of those who turn unto Him cannot exalt nor the rejection of those who turn away from Him harm   BH09440

God, singly and alone, abideth in His Own Place, which is holy above space and time, mention and utterance, sign, description and definition, height and depth.  BH11460

For this cannot be except through Thy grace and mercy. Therefore, O God, accomplish through Thy mercy what I have asked of Thee, for Thou art the Lord of all worlds   BB00386

Thy self-sufficiency hath ever been and how much more from Thy creation, and Thy independence of Thine own Essence shall ever be and how much more from Thy servants.   BB00277

Through His Name was raised the standard of "There is none other God but Him" and was hoisted the banner of "He doeth whatsoever He willeth" upon the mount of understanding   BH09224

Man is dependent. God is independent. So, God is, and although He expressed Himself through man, still if He had not created man, He would be just the same. God is Omnipotent.  ABU2770

From the beginning that hath no beginning I have been an exalted Light. Verily I am God, there is no God but Me. Unto the end that hath no end I shall continue to be an exalted Light   BB00540

God sufficeth all things beyond all things, but nothing in the heavens or earth or between them can suffice in place of God, thy Lord. Verily He is the All-Knowing, the All-Powerful.   BB00594

Thou hast taken unto Thyself neither peer nor partner nor helper, and Thou wilt ever be as Thou hast been from all eternity. There is no God but Thee, the Self-Sufficient, the Most Exalted.  BH08246

The first is divine freedom, which is one of the inherent attributes of the Creator for He is unconstrained in His will, and no one can force Him to change His decree in any matter whatsoever.  ABU0914

He is the One Who creates what He willeth through His command Be! and it is. That is God, your Lord; His is the creation and the command; there is no God but Him. Say: All shall return unto Him.  BB00004

He ordaineth what He pleaseth for whom He pleaseth and withholdeth what He pleaseth from whom He pleaseth. There is no God but Him, the Single, the One, the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  AB00021

In the eternity of Thy essence, Thou wert sanctified from association with contingent things, and the oneness of Thy being was hallowed from the reach of the perceptions of those endowed with reason.   AB01639

The obedience of them that obey Thee profiteth Thee not, nor doth the remoteness of those who are far from the good-pleasure of Thy Self-Subsistence diminish aught from the treasuries of Thy grandeur.   BB00095

He is independent of all that is in the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and self-sufficient above all who dwell in the kingdom of command and creation and whatsoever lieth betwixt.  BB00003

All praise and glory befit that Ever-Living Beloved Who has eternally existed in the sublimity of His independent, holy Essence and will forever abide in the exaltation of His sacred, inaccessible Being.  BB00005

Thou hast ever been One, Self-Subsisting, Single, Ever-Living, Self-Sustaining, All-Wise, Just, Holy, Eternal, Everlasting, Self-Dependent, Transcendent, Exalted. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son.   BB00682

Thou hast ordained all things by Thy power and fashioned all creation by Thy wisdom. Thou hast ever been exalted above all loftiness and glory, and wilt ever be transcendent above all elevation and deed.   BB00258

God is the Creator of all things, and He is the Mighty, the Most Bountiful. Say: Who hath created the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, if ye have knowledge? Say: God, the God of the ancients.  BB00004

God is independent of all that is in the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them. He hath not sent any Messenger nor revealed any Book save to distinguish who followeth the truth from His presence.  BB00004

He hath taken unto Himself neither partner, nor likeness, nor peer, nor equal, nor opposite, nor similitude. He hath been and will forever remain One in His Essence, and none shall deny this save every ignorant doubter.   BH00339

O my God! Thou art sufficient against everyone but none sufficeth against Thee. Verily Thou hast power over all things but all are powerless over anything. Verily Thou knowest all things but all are ignorant of all things  BB00362

He is the One Who createth what He willeth through His command, and unto Him shall all return. He is the One Who createth what He willeth through His command Be! and it is. He createth what He willeth through His command.  BB00004

For every utterance save this spiritual reality is but delusion, and every quest save for this true Beloved is but loss and regret, and every effort and striving apart from this path and passion is endless toil and trouble  AB06363

And that Word is the blessed Word "He doeth whatsoever He willeth and ordaineth whatsoever He pleaseth." This Word closeth the door of objections raised by the idolatrous souls and rolleth up the realm of self and passion.   BH01955

They acknowledge that "He doeth what He willeth," yet they question His actions with "why" and "wherefore." They recognize that "He ordaineth what He pleaseth," yet they hesitate regarding that which hath appeared from Him.   BH05986

Thou hast brought into being all that Thou hast created from nothing through Thy Will, for it is dominant and manifest, and Thou hast created all that Thou hast desired through Thy Purpose, for it is supreme and inaccessible.  BB00011

Were We to decree for light the decree of darkness, none hath the right to object. Thus hath it been sent down in the Tablets, were ye of those who know. Were We to decree good as evil, no soul hath the right to say "why?"   BH01573

It is not possible that God be described as being above anything or established upon anything... Indeed the cloud and all names are creations in His dominion and signs of His sovereign power and attributes of His mighty glory...  BB00651

Thou art He Whom the doubts of the people have not withheld, nor their allusions, nor their might and power from Thy will and purpose. Through Thee the banner 'He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth' was raised.   BH03937

He hath ever been pure Truth with no creation beside Him, a Sovereign of grace with no command except from Him, a King of justice with no decree save His decree, and a Monarch all-bountiful with no generosity except from His presence.   BB00303

All the kingdoms of heaven and earth and whatever is between them are God's, and His power is supreme over all things. All the treasures of earth and heaven and everything between them are His, and His protection extendeth over all things.   BB00490

Thou createst what Thou willest through Thy creation and Thou bringest into being what Thou desirest through Thy origination. Thou createst what Thou willest through Thy creation and Thou originatest what Thou desirest through Thy innovation.   BB00438

Thou, verily, art He Whom the good works of the people can never exalt nor their evil deeds deter, Whom the ascendancy of the rulers cannot humble nor the power of the mighty vanquish. Thou doest through Thy sovereignty whatsoever Thou willest.  BH01001

Thou art He Who is not of anything, nor in anything, nor upon anything, nor before anything, nor after anything, nor above anything, nor below anything, nor to the right of anything, nor to the left of anything, nor in any direction of anything.   BB00130

Thou hast brought into being all that Thou hast ordained without will or creation, and Thou hast decreed all that Thou hast judged without design or invention, for Thou art the Creator of all things by Thy command and their Essence by Thy creation.  BB00617

He is the One Who createth whatsoever He willeth through His command, and unto God shall all be turned. This is God, your Lord. His is the creation and the command. There is none other God but He, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved. All act by His leave.  BB00004

From everlasting Thou hast been one God, single, eternal, self-subsisting, living, unchanging, sovereign, supreme, holy, everlasting, eternal, self-dependent, transcendent, inaccessible, sanctified, exalted, unique. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son.   BB00295

He hath been, and will ever be, the One God, Single, Independent, Self-Subsisting, Sovereign, All-Compelling, Holy, Eternal, Everlasting, Self-Sufficient, Most Exalted, Inaccessible, Most High, Omnipotent. He hath taken unto Himself neither companion nor son.  BB00005

He doeth what He willeth by His command and decreeth what He pleaseth... He ordaineth what He pleaseth and is not asked of what He willeth... He shall not be questioned as to that which He doeth, and He is the Prevailer, the Subduer, the Exalted, the Most High.  BH00134

Thou hast ever been one God, single, unique, eternal, self-subsisting, ever-abiding, everlasting, self-dependent. Thou hast taken unto Thyself neither consort nor son, and Thou hast had no partner in Thy creation, nor any protector in what Thou hast fashioned.   BB00192

Thou doest, by Thy sovereignty, what Thou willest, and ordainest, through the power of Thy might, what Thou pleasest. Thou hast, in Thyself, been independent of any one besides Thee and rich enough, in Thine own essence, to dispense with any one except Thy Self.   BH02617

Thou hast ever been independent of all else besides Thee and sanctified above the praise of Thy creation. Thine is the creation and the command, O my God, after Thy independence from it, and Thine is the dominion and the kingdom after Thy freedom from need of it.  BB00211

Thou hast ever been Thou art, Thou art, and it shall ever remain it is, it is. None knoweth how it is save Thee, and none knoweth how Thou art save Thee. The word "Thou" appeareth not except through Thee, and the word of action is not complete except through it.   BB00069

through His might He exalts whom He wishes, and through His power He abases whom He desires, and He bestows upon whom He wishes whatsoever He wishes, and verily He wills as He has willed for whomsoever He desires, and verily He is the Doer of whatsoever He wishes   BH11314

He hath had and hath no purpose save the guidance of the handmaidens and servants of God, inasmuch as He, of His own Self, hath ever been and shall ever be self-sufficient. Neither doth any good deed of His servants profit Him, nor any evil act of His creatures harm Him.  BH09293

Thou hast ever been independent of all else besides Thee and sanctified above the praise of Thy creation. Thine is the creation and the command, O my God, despite Thy independence therefrom, and Thine is the kingdom and the dominion, despite Thy freedom from need thereof.  BB00211

Yet whatever proceedeth from Thy creation is but a token of the majesty of Thy holy oneness and the rapturous beauty of Thy sovereign Reality. Therefore, O my God, ordain for me from Thy presence that which befitteth the sublimity of Thy generosity and the exaltation of Thy grace.   BB00212

Thou hast ever been one God, single, eternal, self-subsisting, living, enduring, sovereign, supreme, holy, everlasting, eternal, self-dependent. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast had no partner in what Thou hast created, nor any helper in what Thou hast fashioned.  BB00003

When thou hast recognized thy Lord God through His independence of what He hath created and will create, and the dependence of what He hath created and will create upon His command, then bear thou witness that God, glorified be He, hath no beginning and no end, no outward and no inward.  BB00005

Thou createst as Thou pleasest what Thou pleasest, and Thou originatest as Thou desirest what Thou desirest. Thou art the Creator Who hath never been created, the Provider Who hath never been provided for, the Quickener Whom nothing can frustrate, and the Giver of life from Whom naught can be withheld.  BB00011

Be Thou my supporter behind all things and my shelter with all things. Direct through the sovereignty of Thy direction my affairs, and dispose through the dominion of Thy decree my condition, for besides Thee none hath power over anything, and all else besides Thee is needy and cannot accomplish anything.  BB00081

Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, nor hath there been any partner in what Thou hast created, nor any protector in what Thou hast fashioned. By Thy wisdom hast Thou ordered the kingdom of Thy heaven and earth, and by Thy will hast Thou perfected the affairs of all in the kingdom of Thy Cause and creation.   BB00271

Thou createst whatsoever Thou willest by Thy command. Verily, Thou art powerful over all things. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast had no partner in sovereignty, nor any protector in all the earth save by Thy leave. Thou didst ordain the creation of all things and fashion them according to Thy Will.  BB00086

Thou hast ever been one God, single, eternal, self-subsisting, living, all-compelling, sovereign, all-pervading, holy, everlasting, eternal, inaccessible, supreme, powerful, mighty. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, nor hadst Thou any partner in what Thou didst create, nor any protector in what Thou didst fashion.   BB00294

Thou hast taken neither consort nor offspring, nor hast Thou had any partner in Thy creation or any protector in what Thou hast fashioned. By Thy power hast Thou created all things and ordained them according to Thy decree, and by Thy will hast Thou formed the creation of all things and shaped them according to Thy wisdom.   BB00117

I testify, and all things testify, that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee, alone with no partner. Thou hast ever been one God, Single, Eternal, Self-Subsisting, Ever-Living, Self-Sustaining. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, nor hadst Thou any partner in what Thou hast created, nor any equal in what Thou hast fashioned.   BB00162

Thou hast ever been independent of all Thou hast created and exalted above all Thou dost create.  BB00338

Glorified art Thou, glorified art Thou! Thou art independent of all created things and sanctified above whatsoever existeth in the kingdoms of earth and heaven. All desire to know Thee while they know but themselves, and thus they imagine that they know Thee. All seek Thee while they seek but themselves, yet they bear witness that they seek Thee.  BB00011

Far be it from one like me to seek to draw Thee nigh through anything! Nay, by Thy might! Thou art unique in the heights of transcendence, and Thou art sanctified in the depths of nearness. If Thou shouldst establish Thy throne of manifestation upon a handful of dust, that would be the Most Exalted Throne and the Most Glorious Horizon in Thy sight.  BB00011

Thou hast ever been One God, Single, Eternal, Individual, Ever-living, Self-subsisting, Sovereign, Supreme, Holy, Everlasting, Eternal, Self-dependent, Transcendent, Inaccessible, inasmuch as Thou hast taken unto Thyself neither consort nor son, and there hath been no partner for Thee in what Thou hast created, nor any helper in what Thou hast fashioned.  BB00003

Thou hast taken neither consort nor partner, nor hath anything in Thy realm been joined with Thy Being, for Thou wert living when there was no life, and Thou wilt live after all life, and Thou art living when there is no life except Thine own. Thou createst what Thou willest without generation, and bringest into being what Thou desirest without invention.  BB00131

O Thou Who is independent of the obedience of His creation! O Thou Who is the Helper of whomsoever doeth good works through His grace! O Thou Who inspireth whomsoever seeketh the glory of His good-pleasure within himself! O Thou Who is the Subduer over all His dominion! O Thou Who is manifest over all things through the sovereignty of His Self-Subsistence!  BB00011

He is independent of all worlds. He is, and hath from everlasting been, one and alone, without peer or equal, eternal in the past, eternal in the future, detached from all things, ever-abiding, unchangeable, and self-subsisting. He hath assigned no associate unto Himself in His Kingdom, no counsellor to counsel Him, none to compare unto Him, none to rival His glory.   BH01640

Thou createst as Thou willest without will or purpose, and bringest into being what Thou desirest without design or innovation. Thou art the Manifest Who shall never be manifested, the Triumphant Who shall never be overcome, the Almighty Who shall never be subdued, the Powerful Who shall never be frustrated, and the All-Compelling from Whose grasp nothing can escape.  BB00011

By Thy grandeur and sovereignty of Thy oneness, if Thou wert to manifest me upon the exalted height of Thy dominion and the loftiness of Thy divinity, I would bar all paths leading unto that place, for it beseemeth not these creatures to attain the presence of Thy Self, to present themselves before Thy Being, to proceed unto Thy Essence, or to appear before Thy Reality.  BB00003

Glory be unto Thee! There is no God but Thee. Thou hast ever been unique in the sovereignty of might and independence, and Thou wilt ever remain exalted in the dominion of power. Thou art He Who hath possessed Thy creation through the wonders of the dominion of Thy Lordship as a manifestation of Thine exaltation, Thy self-subsistence, Thine independence, and Thine eternity.  BB00028

Thou createst whatsoever Thou willest by Thy command. Verily, Thou art powerful over all things. I further testify, as doth all creation, that Thou hast ever existed before all things, subsisting with all things, enduring after all things, and transcending all things. Thou hast distinguished Thyself through might and majesty, and exalted Thyself through grandeur and independence.   BB00052

Thou hast ever been, O my God, exalted above Thy creation and elevated above all Thy servants. For Thou hast ever been independent of all that Thou hast created or wilt create, sanctified above all that Thou hast brought into being or wilt bring into being, exalted above all that Thou hast fashioned or wilt fashion, and transcendent above all that Thou hast ordained or wilt ordain.   BB00163

Thou hast ever been the One God, Single, Eternal, Self-Subsisting, Living, the Self-Sustaining, the Sovereign, the All-Encompassing, the Holy, the All-Glorious, the Most Sublime, the Most Praiseworthy, the Most Great, the Most Luminous, the Most Exalted, the Peerless, the All-Powerful, the Supreme, the Sovereign, the All-Knowing, the Manifest, the Hidden, the Most High, the Inaccessible.  BB00679

Thou art the Creator Who was never created, the Provider Who was never provided for, the One Who causeth death yet never dieth, and the Ever-Living Who shall never perish. Protection is sought from Thee while none can protect against Thee. Thou decreest while none can decree against Thee. Thou judgest while none can judge against Thee. Thou ordainest while none can ordain except by Thy leave.  BB00444

Thou hast ever been one God, single, eternal, self-subsisting, ever-living, self-sustaining, sovereign, all-encompassing, holy. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast no partner in what Thou hast created, nor any protector in what Thou hast fashioned. Thou hast created all things by Thy power and ordained them by Thine ordinance, and Thou hast formed all things by Thy will and fashioned them by Thy forming.  BB00208

Is there for any besides Thee, O my God, any power or independence? Or is there for any other than Thee any sign or proof of independence? Nay, by Thy might! All depend upon Thy power and strength, and all that is attributed to them they themselves know is from Thee alone. Were Thou to sever from them Thy connection, they would have nothing, even though they claim relationship to Thee while Thou confirmest not their claim unto Thee, O my God, of such relationship.   BB00190

God in His Self is independent of His Self, for He is the Mighty, the Beloved. Say: God in His Essence is independent of His Essence, for verily He is the All-Compelling, the All-Glorious. Say: God in His Being is independent of His Being, for verily He is the Inaccessible, the Most High, the Mighty, the Beloved. Say: God in His Identity is independent of His Identity, for verily He is the Single, the One, the Unique, the Self-Subsisting, the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting.  BB00004

I speak truly when I say that He, exalted be His glory, hath appeared with the banner of 'He doeth what He willeth' and hath come with the standard of 'He ordaineth what He pleaseth.' Let steadfast and content souls be attentive. O My loved ones! Whatsoever proceedeth from the Most Holy, Most Exalted Threshold is the truth about which there is no doubt. The Primal Point hath said that should He pronounce the earth to be heaven or heaven to be earth, none hath the right to question wherefore or why.   BH00927

Thou hast ever been one God, single, eternal, self-subsisting, living, unchanging, wise, just, holy, standing, powerful, compelling, manifest, transcendent, victorious, all-knowing, ruling, first, last, outer, inner, trusted, exalted, inaccessible, elevated, sanctified, glorified, mighty, proud, sovereign, possessing, lofty, unapproachable, everlasting, eternal. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, nor had Thou any partner in what Thou hast created, nor any protector in what Thou hast fashioned.   BB00272

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Thou art the Subduer Who shall never be subdued, the Manifest Who shall never be manifested, the Vanquisher Who shall never be vanquished, the Established Who shall never decline, the Sovereign Who shall never pass away, and the Ruler Whom nothing can impede. Thou art the Almighty Whom nothing can frustrate, and the All-Knowing from Whose knowledge nothing is hidden. None can be Thy peer, nor Thy opponent, nor Thy like, nor Thy similitude, nor Thy equal, nor Thy partner.  BB00011

God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. He hath no equal in the kingdom of the heavens and earth and what lieth between them, and all are submissive unto Him. God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. He hath no peer in the kingdom of the heavens and earth and what lieth between them, and all are worshippers of Him. God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. He hath no likeness in the kingdom of the heavens and earth and what lieth between them, and all are humble before Him. God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. He hath no similitude in the kingdom of the heavens and earth and what lieth between them, and all are submissive unto Him. God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. He hath no companion in the kingdom of the heavens and earth and what lieth between them, and all are thankful for His praise.  BB00004
