
Last night I dreamt I was riding on a dromedary, going fast through a desert. The animal became wild and beyond my control. Then I jumped down from its back and ran away and stood on a hill. Somehow he had got hold of my shirt and imagined that I was in it. He was striking it against the sand with great rage as though he wanted to tear me to pieces. However from my vintage-ground I was looking at him and was much amused at his irresistible fury.   ABU3140

At one time in the world of dreams, I attained the presence of the Messenger of God [Muhammad] - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him. Words were revealed from that Dawning-Place of the Divine Book, and utterances shone forth from that Ocean of Divine Wisdom. During His utterance He said: "Formerly I declared 'Paradise is beneath the shadow of swords,' but in these days were I manifest I would say 'Paradise is beneath the shade of the Tree of Unity and Mercy.'" After hearing this most exalted blessed Word, I said: "May the spirit of the world be sacrificed for Thy loving-kindness, for Thy bounty, for Thy mercy!" Thereafter there flowed from the Ocean of Utterance that which no pen hath the station to express, nor ink the position to reveal. When I arose from sleep, for a time I found myself in such joy as cannot be described. That which was witnessed and heard transcendeth the understanding of the servants.  BH00324

We were awakened one night, ere break of day, by Mirza Abdu'l-Vahhab-i-Shirazi, who was bound with Us to the same chains. He had left Kazimayn and followed Us to Tihran, where he was arrested and thrown into prison. He asked Us whether We were awake, and proceeded to relate to Us his dream. 'I have this night,' he said, 'been soaring into a space of infinite vastness and beauty. I seemed to be uplifted on wings that carried me wherever I desired to go. A feeling of rapturous delight filled my soul. I flew in the midst of that immensity with a swiftness and ease that I cannot describe.'  BHU0004

Those two stars which you observed were a wondrous sign, for they were above the Michigan River and now it is the site of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. This vision was a spiritual revelation and those two stars were two heavenly luminaries of the divine realm that appeared before you   AB04067

In one of the dreams I saw myself in Bagdad living in the same house that we used to live. With a number of believers we were standing in His holy Presence and He was in the course of delivering a talk on the spiritual station of the Manifestations of God. Meanwhile people came in, listened to His Words, were thrilled with joyousness and went out with the Light of God in their faces.   ABU1336

Regarding the star which appeareth while thou art turned unto God: This is the spiritual disclosure and the divine impression. Also the fire circle which appeareth to thine eyes, is a spiritual transfiguration and [signifieth] the Eternal Grace manifesting itself in the human garment; because "cloud" signifies the human form (or body), while the "circle of fire," the divine form, which is manifested in the reality of man.  AB02803

I saw in Akka that a large street had opened in a straight line, and from the beginning of this thoroughfare a cannon was fired. All the people leaned to one side so that no harm would befall them, and I too bent to one side. This shot passed and no harm was done, but a strange anxiety became evident among the people. From around this shell, things like birds but red in color were scattered about, which people said was dynamite that would destroy whatever it hit, but it hit nothing and caused no damage. I told this dream to the friends. The next day the Pashas arrived. I also said there would be a great storm but it would not be important and would pass safely.  ABU0014

One night, not long ago, I saw him in the world of dreams. Although his frame had always been massive, in the dream world he appeared larger and more corpulent than ever. It seemed as if he had returned from a journey. I said to him, Jinab, you have grown good and stout. Yes, he answered, praise be to God! I have been in places where the air was fresh and sweet, and the water crystal pure; the landscapes were beautiful to look upon, the foods delectable. It all agreed with me, of course, so I am stronger than ever now, and I have recovered the zest of my early youth. The breaths of the All-Merciful blew over me and all my time was spent in telling of God. I have been setting forth His proofs, and teaching His Faith.  AB00002

In that dream I saw a grave upon which a mausoleum had been built. As I drew near, I saw the Most Bountiful One, Muhammad, come out from the mausoleum adorned in the most beautiful form, such that I am unable to describe His beauty. As soon as I recognized Him through the inspiration of God, I greeted Him. One was with Him like unto the one sent down to me in this Day from the favors of my Lord. I stood in front of the sanctuary in my station, and taking a piece of fruit, I offered it to my Lord, may My spirit be a sacrifice unto Him. He accepted it most graciously and ate some of it. Then He took a sweetmeat from His pocket, which the Persians call nuqli hill (made with cardamom), and, with respect, He offered it to me. I took all of it and ate it in the presence of God.  BB00578

But the Prophet, before declaring and announcing his mission, spent ten nights in the cave of Hira, and in those ten nights the sea of divine outpourings was surging and the lights of divine manifestations were shining forth.  AB01308

I dreamed a dream and behold, the Blessed Beauty (Baha'u'llah) came and said to Me: `Destroy this room.'   ABU3615

I became known and revealed myself to thee in the world of vision and instructed thee in the search of Truth.  AB09324

Verily, thou makest known unto me that which I formerly witnessed in a dream in the house wherein I used to dwell.  BB00578


Finally he did not come. It seemed that he was dreaming. The repeated answers of "Bale' Aga" were uttered in a dream state.   ABU2660


The poems thou didst compose in the realm of dreams have been recorded in the Book of the Unseen and shall not vanish from memory.  AB05426

One of the Babis had a vision in which he saw a passage from the Qur'an written in English upon an arch beneath which sat the Shah.   ABU2513

She dreamed a dream, and behold, she saw her seventh son, the only one left. He was being brought to her with a dagger in his heart.   ABU1090

Last night I had a dream. In this dream I saw the Blessed Perfection standing before a large gathering. I was also amongst those people.  ABU1546


Last night it rained very hard and I could not sleep more than two hours. I saw many dreams but most of them were short little ones. As soon as I went to sleep I would see a dream and then awake.   ABU1336

O Lord, You know that on the night when I intended to write this book, I saw in a dream that the Holy Land was scattered into particles and lifted into the air, then all of it came toward my house and became established   BB00240


Three years ago I saw thee in a dream while thou wert I suppose in America and I asked thee: 'What art thou doing here? Who has brought thee here[?] and thou didst answer: 'God has brought me here and I am doing His work.'   ABU0672

I dreamed I was in Tiberias. Along the shore I was living alone in a small cottage which was built with mud brick but I was most happy and I was surrounded with a spiritual atmosphere indescribable in its beauty and calmness.  ABU3073

One night he dreamed he was on the plain of Karbila in the company of the Lord of Martyrs on that field of tribulation, and all the companions and followers were in danger while the opposing forces were attacking and ready for battle.   ABU1307

'Uluviyyih Khanum, the wife of the martyred Mulla 'Ali Jan [Mafuzaki], had a dream which she recounted to Jamal Burujirdi. She said, "I dreamt that Jamal Mubarak [the Blessed Beauty] came to this room and graciously spoke in praise of me."  ABU1842

"A few nights ago I had a lovely dream the memory of which has uplifted my soul. In the world of dream I found myself in the Holy Presence of the Blessed Perfection. With a number of other friends I was standing before Him. He directed His gaze toward me and began to speak to me mercifully, compassionately."  ABU0814

In My vision I saw the head of the Imam Husayn, the Siyyidu'sh-Shuhada', which was hanging upon a tree. Drops of blood dripped profusely from His lacerated throat. With feelings of unsurpassed delight, I approached that tree and, stretching forth My hands, gathered a few drops of that sacred blood, and drank them devoutly.  BB00605

O God, Thou knowest that on the day I desired to compose this book, I saw in a night vision that the Holy Land was reduced to atoms and was lifted into the air, then all of it came toward my house and became established. Then after that came news of the passing of the wise and illustrious friend, my teacher - may God's mercy be upon him - from that place. And I had indeed informed some people of my dream before the news came.  BB00240

I saw thee standing before Me, with a radiant countenance, gazing upon thy Lord. The Face of God turned toward thee and magnified thee. Then there flowed from the mouth of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, the Kawthar of inner meanings and utterance, in such measure as none in all the worlds could reckon. And at the end of the discourse, We commanded thee, from the presence of the Lord of Lords, to convey His Cause among His creatures.  BH11679

Last night in the realm of dreams I beheld His Honor Mulla 'Ali-Akbar. His frame was robust, but in the dream I saw him even more robust and corpulent. In the dream, it was as if he had been on a journey. I said to him, "Your honor, you have grown quite stout." He replied, "Praise be to God, I have traveled to places where the air was supremely gentle, the water exceedingly sweet, the vistas perfectly delightful, and the food most delectable."  ABU0919

Last night I dreamt I was riding on a dromedary, going fast through a desert. The animal became wild and beyond my control. Then I jumped down from its back and ran away and stood on a hill. Somehow he had got hold of my shirt and imagined that I was in it. He was striking it against the sand with great rage as though he wanted to tear me to pieces. However from my vintage-ground I was looking at him and was much amused at his irresistible fury.   ABU3140

Then He told us the story of a man, a Christian, who had visited Him in 'Akka and expressed his disbelief in dreams... One night when he was away from home he had had an alarming dream of his little daughter. She had come to him, sat on his knee and complained that her head ached. Rapidly she grew worse. They sent for the doctor. The father knew in his dream that she was hopelessly ill and felt the most acute anguish. Then he saw her die. The following night he returned to his home and his daughter came and sat on his knee. Father, she said, my head aches. Then followed her illness, her death.  ABU1964

I seemed to be standing within a great mosque, in the inmost shrine, facing the Qiblih, in the place of the Imam himself. I became aware that a large number of people were flocking into the mosque. More and yet more crowded in, taking their places in rows behind Me, until there was a vast multitude. As I stood I raised loudly the call to prayer. Suddenly the thought came to Me to go forth from the mosque. When I found Myself outside I said within Myself: 'For what reason came I forth, not having led the prayer? But it matters not; now that I have uttered the Call to prayer, the vast multitude will of themselves chant the prayer.'  ABU3363

One morning at early tea Abdul Baha told us that he had a dream about America. He said that in His dream he thought he was in a large room with a number of the Persians (naming them) and others also of the teachers there. These told him that there were many earnest believers in America, but that they were far apart and all playing on different musical instruments, so that they did not play in harmony. Abdul Baha said "I will see what I can do. Finding one, I told him to stay until I brought others to him, but when I came back with another, the first had gone away piping on his instrument." And so it was; I would never get them together. He added, "When I awoke, I was very tired."   ABU3063


