
In any case, we are thankful - you too must be thankful.  BH09186

We have no recourse except to be content with God's decree   AB06189

O Lord! Make me content with what Thou hast ordained for me.   BH06930

"contented with that which the Lord hath granted thee in the world"  AB05917

Strive thou to be content, and for God to be well-pleased with thee.  BH08514

He submitted to God's decree and showed acceptance and contentment.   AB00286

Adorn thyself with the ornament of trust, resignation and submission   BH03588

His hope at all times is whatsoever Thou hast ordained for Him   BH09871

for otherwise there is no solace except contentment with the divine decree   BB00601

your unhappy mood will dissolve into a blessed, contented submission to God.  ABU3027

All must be content with God's good-pleasure and be submissive to His Cause.   BH05019

Be thou content with that which thy Lord, the All-Knowing Ordainer, hath ordained.  BH08991

A rill with a steady flow of water and contentment constitute inexhaustible wealth.   ABU0330

Be content with the divine decree and set thy face toward resignation and contentment  AB10005

Be content with what God has decreed for us, then be patient and be of the patient ones.   BH04940

I hope that you will always be confirmed in contentment and service to the Greatest Name.  AB03146

"laid hold on the cord of patience and resignation and hath been content with God's decree"  BH06000

Be thou content with what God hath decreed. Verily thy Lord is He Who judgeth as He pleaseth.   BH06767

What befitteth the friend is submission to, and contentment with, the good-pleasure of the Friend.  BH11852

Be content with God's decree, for unto God belongs consummate wisdom in all matters and conditions  AB12712

"Be submissive, then things will change for you. Put your family in God's hands. Love God's will."  ABU3253

But We have acquiesced to God's good-pleasure and decree, and I counsel you to beautiful patience.   BH02398

Make me content with what Thou hast apportioned unto me, lest I be among those who complain of Thee   BH02684

Be thou resigned unto fate and be satisfied with whatever the operation of destiny causeth to occur.  AB09172

Know this much: that whatever occurs is good, though its wisdom may be hidden and its cause not apparent.  AB10585

Be content with that which God has been content with - this is better for you, were you of those who know   BH05696

I have not complained, nor will I complain, and I remain content with whatsoever God hath ordained for Me   BH02836

Restrain thyself from that which thou art forbidden, then be content with what hath been ordained for thee   BH03193

This is the station of contentment with God's decree and of praise and supplication to the Peerless Beloved  AB05534

"Therefore one must be patient, dignified, grateful and maintain an attitude of submission and contentment."  AB04365

Therefore that leaf must not be sorrowful, but rather content and grateful for what hath been ordained for her.   BH06481

Live thou in the station of resignation and contentment so that thy heart and soul may obtain peace and serenity.  AB08156

Be adorned at all times with the raiment of patience and contentment, and be expectant of the favors of your Lord.  BH10004

Therefore must all be content with His decisive command, nay rather, be thankful for whatsoever appeareth from Him.  BH07447

Verily I am well-pleased with the things thou hast ordained for me, and I will remain patient under Thy tribulations.   AB05494

Be content in all conditions with whatsoever hath been ordained for thee from the presence of the Mighty, the Most High.   BH06047

The highest of all virtues hath been submission and contentment - through God's grace thou wert adorned with that garment.  BH08744

Seek contentment, show fortitude, ask for steadfastness, give your heart to God's decree. Divine wisdom has required this.  AB02089

Beseech God that in all conditions thou mayest be successful in attaining His good-pleasure and be content with His decree.  AB08246

We love for thee to be content with God's good-pleasure and to be self-effacing in His Will that hath encompassed the worlds   BH05504

Therefore one must be content with fate and surrender to destiny, and be grateful and thankful for whatever has been ordained.  AB06885

We have no recourse but to submit to God's decree and to show patience and resignation in the face of this most great calamity.  AB10318

Thy firm decree in Thy good-pleasure is the desire of the sincere ones, the hope of the longing ones, and the life of the lovers   BH11179

"Be content with what We have ordained and be of those who rejoice. It behooveth every soul to be content with the decree of his Lord"  BH03431

Therefore be content with God's good-pleasure and transgress not His command. This is better for you than all that ye desire or love.   BH03243

Then cause me, O my God, to be content with whatsoever Thou hast ordained for me through Thy grace and bounty and generosity and favors  BH07110

Today all must fix their gaze upon the horizon of God and, in whatsoever may come to pass, manifest complete contentment and submission.   BH02608

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for Thy decree and ordainment, and thanks be unto Thee, O my Lord, for Thy direction and execution thereof   BH11091

The Exalted Herald - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - saith: All is that they might attain unto the word of contentment.  BH11613

Be content with God's decree. Say: O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I am content with what hath befallen me in Thy days.   BH03491

Content with God's will, utterly resigned, my heart surrendered to whatever fate had in store, I was happy. For a boon companion, I had great joy.  AB00156

Be content with what We have decreed for thee. Thus hast thou followed the example of thy Lord in what befell Him. This is the way of the sincere ones.  BH03926

I beseech Thee by the cooing of the Dove of Thy Cause to make me content in all conditions with what Thou hast ordained for me through Thy decree and destiny.  BH04635

Grieve not at God's decree and His command. It behooveth thee to be content and well-pleased with the command of God, the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH07057

Praise be to God that He has ordained patience and forbearance as sustenance for sincere hearts, and decreed that trials should taste as sweets to the sincere ones.  AB03691

Know therefore that calamities suffered in the path of the True One are a bounty; and contentment under His decree is among the characteristics of the people of God.  AB07654

If you are grateful, you will be rewarded and God's decree will be carried out; and if you complain, you will be deprived and God's decree will still be carried out.  AB05405

I hope that ye will attain the utmost patience, composure and resignation, and I entreat and implore at the Threshold of Oneness, begging for forgiveness and pardon.  AB01938

Be content with what God hath ordained for thee. He hath destined for those who desire Him that which is better for them than all else created in the contingent world   BH03101

My happiness was perfect in those dark days of imprisonment and vicissitudes. I was more happy then than now; because I had no will of my own. I was perfectly resigned.   ABU3037

This is a day of joy and delight - make not thyself sorrowful through idle words and sayings. God is Our witness and Our testament - cloud not thyself with vain imaginings.  BH04352

Verily, contentment with God's decree is a characteristic of those who are detached and a practice of those who are attracted by the fragrances of the Most Glorious Kingdom  AB11409

"Draw near to sorrow, accept suffering, embrace misery, so that thou mayest triumph as an eternal lamp and an immortal spirit. This is My command. Understand it, observe it!"  ABU0500

By Thy glory! I am content with whatsoever Thou hast ordained for me through Thy decree and destiny, for I testify that Thou art praised in Thy doings and obeyed in Thy command.   BH09078

"Now are days of hardship - be confident that the time of ease and comfort will also come. This hardship and ease, poverty and wealth, comfort and difficulty have no importance."  AB03509

God willing, drink ye in all conditions from the ocean of contentment. The loving-kindness of God hath ever been and shall ever be with the steadfast ones who have turned unto Him.   BH04138

Be in the utmost state of submission and contentment, and follow not thy desires... Live in the world with joy and delight, then build thy affairs upon trust in God and contentment   BH07503

It is incumbent upon those who have accepted to be content with the good-pleasure of the Friend and to be found submissive and obedient at the dawning of the divine Sun of the Cause.  BH02321

It behooveth one like thee to endure every trial, to be pleased with the decree and to commit all thy affairs to God, so that thou mayest be a calm, approved and pleasing soul before God.  AB07017

"It is better that we bow our heads to the sword of destiny and offer our breasts as shields to the arrow of fate with acceptance. What recourse is there except submission and contentment?"  AB03219

The people of God have not at all any dependence in this world; they neither get displeased with the bitterness of the cup, nor are they happy with its sweetness. The people of God are like the birds, who satisfy themselves with a few crumbs, and sit the whole time on the branches of the trees and sing the praises of God. ABU2187

It is not for me, who am a handmaid of Thine, to say, whence is this to me or wherefore hath it happened, inasmuch as Thou art glorified in all Thine acts, and art to be obeyed in Thy decree.  BH03421

A wise man must adapt himself as quickly as possible to every environment. If he is disgruntled and complains he will make his own life miserable and never enjoys the meaning of contentment.   ABU2907

We are content with whatsoever God hath been pleased to decree for Us, and submissive to that which He hath destined from His presence, and thankful for that which He hath ordained from His court.   BH09943

"Do thou likewise neither lament nor grieve, but be content with the divine decrees and whatsoever hath been ordained by Him...Be not disheartened - be content with the good-pleasure of the Friend."  BH05778

Clothe thyself with the garment of resignation, and quaff from the pure wine of contentment. Sell this world for a dirham and let thy heart be captive to the divine decree and thy soul tied to destiny  BH03019

Let me quaff in Thy Cause, O my God, whatsoever Thou didst desire, and send down upon me in Thy love all Thou didst ordain. By Thy glory! I wish only what Thou wishest, and cherish what Thou cherishest.  BH02524

Be not sorrowful, be not grieved. We have accepted every affliction in the path of Baha and have willingly purchased every tribulation with heart and soul. Therefore we must show patience and fortitude.  AB09277

Be thou patient and grieve not, then be content with what He hath ordained for thee, for this is better for thee than all that thou hast known or shalt know, for the matter hath been decreed and fulfilled   BH10326

Divine decree is beloved by the wise, and all are content with it, nay rather thankful. The complainant is not and hath never been acceptable. "Whoso is not content with My decree, let him seek another Lord."  BH02190

Be not distressed, and know with certainty that His grace has ever encompassed and will continue to encompass assured and tranquil souls who have turned to Him. All good lies in what He has willed and ordained  BH05691

However, if these stages occur in the path of divine good-pleasure, they are desirable and beloved, and the true lover is content in all conditions and grateful in every circumstance - this is the ultimate goal.   BH10030

God willing, thou shalt attain unto this blessed Tablet and be blessed with such joy that the tribulations of the world shall not make thee sorrowful, and in all conditions thou shalt remain content and thankful   BH03945

Yet We remain thankful for this, in praiseworthy gratitude. We thank God for what He has decreed for Us of His firm and ordained destiny. By God, whatever appears from the Beloved, He indeed is the One Who is loved.   BH02463

Therefore it would be better if, though we be complaint from head to toe and lamentation from toe to head, we should in one station die to all desires and imaginings and surrender heart and soul to His good-pleasure.   AB01529

All this was decreed for Us by God, the Mighty, the Beautiful. We thank Him in all this and praise Him for all of this and for all that was ordained from His presence, and We shall be, God willing, among the patient ones.   BH01781

Therefore it behooves us to thank God at all times and be content with what He has ordained for us of His firm decrees, and not be anxious about what descends from Him, nor be disturbed by what He has decreed by His command.  BH10398

Therefore, ye must needs be in the utmost state of resignation and contentment, and in adversity and tribulation be moved to forbearance and patience, that all may follow your example and be immersed in the ocean of acquiescence.  AB05007

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs and the manifestations of Thy grandeur in the kingdom of creation to make me content with whatsoever Thou hast ordained for me through Thy generosity and prescribed for me through Thy grace.   BH08123

Yet in all these successive tribulations and continuous trials I have been, and by God's grace shall ever remain, thankful. What God hath willed for me is my desire, and what He hath purposed is my purpose in this world and the next.  BH03154

The cup of contentment is supremely sweet, but we must see what the cup of destiny brings forth. Those souls who have tasted the sweetness and honey of contentment have found the bitterness of destiny to be sweeter than mother's milk.  AB09232

'Blessed are those who are satisfied with every little, and are contented!' Abouzar feeling the superfluity of such a prayer told to his friend: 'If thou wert really a satisfied and contented fellow I would have now my goat in the house'.   ABU2532

Although I am far from attaining the honor of Thy presence, yet for several reasons, since my nearness would cause afflictions to arise, I am content with whatever comes to pass, in submission to God's decree and in surrender to His command.   BB00557

So do with me as You wish, and ordain for me as You wish, and make easy for me as You wish, and expand my breast as You wish. Heal me if Your will desires it, and cure me if Your purpose agrees to it, for I desire nothing except what You desire.  AB05031

Hold fast to the cord of submission and contentment. Verily He seeth and heareth and judgeth with justice, and He is the Just, the Wise. And he whose temple is adorned with the ornament of contentment, he is of the people of Baha in the Crimson Book.   BH01849

He can never find peace but through effort and resignation, so that, notwithstanding all efforts in worldly affairs, the human heart remains free and happy. He neither becomes proud on attaining wealth and position nor becomes dejected on losing them.  ABU2560

O God! Thou didst give and Thou hast called unto Thyself. Whatever Thou doest is to be obeyed, and whatever Thou decreest is the essence of wisdom. I am content with Thy decree, I am yearning for Thy tribulation, I am assured of Thy faithfulness.  AB12001

Whatever He desires is the true good. But weak souls who have not attained to the assured soul become agitated in times of test, cast aside patience and composure, and become so disturbed and restless at the assault of fate that they lose all self-control.  AB03265

"The confirmations of the spirit are all those powers and gifts with which some are born and which men sometimes call genius, but for which others have to strive with infinite pains. They come to that man or woman who accepts his life with radiant acquiescence."  ABU0160

Nevertheless, man's inner being will be so revived by the breeze of divinely-ordained woes and trials that the dust of wailing and lamentation will entirely subside and the light of submissive resignation unto His Will shall shine forth like unto a radiant morn.   AB05199

To attain the true station of radiant acquiescence is the greatest bounty of the Abha Beauty, but the full realization of this attribute, which is the greatest honor in the world of humanity, is very hard to attain. It is very difficult, very intricate to achieve.  AB09882

Beseech God that thou mayest attain unto resignation to His will, burn brightly as a candle of faithfulness, and be consumed by the fire of the love of God. This is the gift of the heavenly Lord and the cause of everlasting glory and happiness in the world of God.  AB06595

Therefore we must drink the poison of divine decree as though it were sweet honey, and eagerly seek the unerring arrow of destiny, for submission gives rise to purpose and resignation brings forth desire - until we see what God has ordained and what fate has decreed.  BH07010

In any case, one such as yourself must submit to God's decree and remain firm and steadfast in surrender. In the fire of tests one must be refined and, like pure gold, shine forth radiantly, teaching others the way of patience, forbearance, submission and contentment.  AB11389

Those souls who in this world submit to every occurrence and constantly live in a state of contentment and submission, who are satisfied and content with their destiny and never question the work of God, and who are thankful and patient - these souls dwell in the paradise of delight.  ABU1302

Let not, however, thy soul grieve over that which God hath rained down upon Us. Merge thy will in His pleasure, for We have, at no time, desired anything whatsoever except His Will, and have welcomed each one of His irrevocable decrees. Let thine heart be patient, and be thou not dismayed.  BH02035

O thou who art seated upon the throne of radiant acquiescence! One of the requirements of the spirit of divine contentment is to be utterly submissive and obedient to the sovereign Will and the Decree of God and to be completely evanescent and non-existent in the presence of His grandeur.   AB06307

Therefore the Supreme Pen has taught the station of trust and resignation. It is evident and manifest to every person of insight and understanding that whatsoever appears from God, glorified be His majesty, has proceeded and continues to proceed from the exigencies of His consummate wisdom.   BH04832

If thou wouldst hearken to my words, release thyself from the fetters of whatsoever cometh to pass. Nay rather, under all conditions thank thou thy loving Lord, and yield up thine affairs unto His Will that worketh as He pleaseth. This verily is better for thee than all else, in either world.  AB04567

Today one like you should educate the people of the earth that all may drink from the ocean of contentment and fix their gaze upon the Will and Purpose of God. Take what thy Lord hath commanded thee and set aside all else. He, verily, is the All-Explaining, the All-Commanding, the All-Knowing.  BH04861

Praise be to God that thou art content in name [called "Rida"] and content at heart with His decree. The station of contentment is among the most exalted of stations, and the state of submission is among the best of states. As much as thou art able, be thou content and submissive and resigned.  AB08970

And [the animals'] greater comfort stems from the fact that a bird is content with a few grains it eats, never thinking about supper, while man is not content even if he possessed all the wealth in the world. Holy souls are also content with little. This is why Christ says "Be ye as the birds."   ABU0663

Be not sorrowful, be not grieved...the essence of all good lies in contentment, and that the loved ones of God must move only in accordance with His good-pleasure and tread no path save His path. They must be intoxicated with the wine of resignation and move within the realm of submission to His will.  AB11365

O servant! Grieve not for what hath befallen thee from the decrees of fate. Be content with what God hath ordained for thee, for naught descendeth upon anyone save that which is better for him than all that hath been created between the heavens and the earth. Beware lest thou grieve in the face of destiny.  BH11738

I hope, through the grace and bounty of my Lord, that you will keep bright the lamp of that forgiven one and water the garden of hopes and wishes of that accepted one at the Threshold of Oneness, so that his pure soul may find spirit and fragrance in the Abha Kingdom and attain the utmost joy and gladness.  AB05561

Be thou content at all times with thy Lord's decree concerning thyself, both inwardly and outwardly. The limit of contentment is that thou shouldst be as content with abasement as with glory, with poverty as with wealth, with hardship as with ease, and with sorrow as with joy in the conditions decreed for thee by God.  BB00065

Especially must the friends of God, after the Blessed Ascension, embrace with their souls every tribulation and calamity. This is what faithfulness requires, otherwise what difference would there be between us and other people? In brief, you must never be sorrowful and grieved, but accept every tribulation with utmost joy.  AB03133

Praise be to God that thou art designated by the name of contentment (Rida) and art content in thy heart with His decree. The station of contentment is among the most exalted of stations, and the state of resignation is among the most excellent of states. As far as thou art able, be content and resigned, and commit all to God.  AB08970

He must in no wise fix his gaze upon the tongues of men - how they move and what they utter. In all conditions he must look to the divine Command and know it to be the cause of joy and gladness, and in truth be gladdened by it. This is the station of contentment that hath been recorded and inscribed in the books of old and of latter days.  BH01443

In this Day it is incumbent upon all to evince true resignation. The Primal Point Himself hath informed every soul and summoned them to this loftiest and sublime station, that all may attain unto the good pleasure of God, may forsake their own desires, of whose ultimate consequence they remain ignorant, and may fix their gaze upon the will of God.  BH04864

Man must live in contentment with the conditions of his time. Contentment is real wealth. If one develops within himself the quality of contentment he will become independent. Contentment is the creator of happiness. When one is contented he does not care either for riches or poverty. He lives above the influence of them and is indifferent to them.   ABU2408

When a person is content, they are content with everything. When a person is not content, even if they possess sovereignty, they remain discontent. There were loved ones in Baghdad who were in the utmost joy and delight, despite spending their nights with only plain bread. From early evening until morning they would chant prayers in the utmost joy.   ABU2316

Rather, trust and reliance on the divine will and purpose brings one to a place where, despite striving and endeavoring in affairs, they have no desire except for what occurs and no wish other than what comes to pass. In that state, they see all matters in accordance with their own desire and will, and consider them promoters of their honor and comfort.   ABU1432

We have no pleasure save the pleasure of God. And creation, like unto them, doth proclaim: We have no pleasure save the pleasure of God. This is what satisfieth My soul on this Day, and on the Day when God shall cause Me to return, that My heart should harbor no aversion to anything. This is the pleasure of God and verily it is the most great contentment, did ye but know.  BB00004

One who is the embodiment of self-surrender and acquiescence... They are so content with the divine decree that they drink from the cup of tribulation as though it were honeyed ambrosia and recognise in poisonous afflictions the sweetness of immortality... My point is that bitterness and venom in this life can be transformed to the sweetest honey if accepted with the spirit of acquiescence.  AB06883

At such a time as this, through the power, the outpouring bounty and the loving providence of God one might attain such heights of acquiescence that no change, no vicissitude may affect this station. As it is written: Should He ordain pearls without price for us, let our hearts become the shells fit to treasure them. Should He rain arrows of misfortune on us, let our lives be targets to receive them.  AB02702

It behooveth us to look to God's will and purpose, and to what He loveth and is pleased with, not to what our desires crave, our wills desire, and our hearts delight in. The whole matter is in His hands. It is for us to thank Him, praise Him, glorify Him, sanctify Him, mention Him, and extol Him in hardship and ease, in adversity and tribulation, and in all that cometh upon His servants in this world.   BH01319

O my God! Shouldst Thou desire, remove me from these horizons, that the people of hypocrisy-who have denied the Day of Separation and broken the Covenant-may no longer behold me. O Lord! Thou knowest what is within my soul and beholdest my dwelling place. Decree, then, what Thou willest. By Thy glory! What Thou hast purposed is my purpose, and what Thou hast desired is my desire in this world and the next.  BH11828

Seek thou my wish and forsake thine own. Thy bondage is not for my protection, but to enable me to sustain successive tribulations, and to prepare me for the trials that must needs repeatedly assail me. Perish that lover who discerneth between the pleasant and the poisonous in his love for his beloved! Be thou satisfied with what God hath destined for thee. He, verily, ruleth over thee as He willeth and pleaseth.   BH04746

"Because all the existing things move according to my wish; therefore I do not find anything contrary to my desire; thus I have no sorrow. There is no doubt that all the beings move by the will of God, and I have given up my own will, desiring the will of God. Thus my will becomes the will of God, for there is nothing of myself. All are moving by His will, yet they are moving by my will. In this case, I am very happy."  ABU2401

We are submissive. If one is not submissive, then one falls into trials. Submissiveness brings great comfort to a person. One does not fall short in what is necessary and proper, whether in treatment or in vigilance. But one is submissive, otherwise how can a person find peace in this abode of accidents? One would always remain anxious. It is impossible for a day to pass without some incident. There is no peace for man except through submission.   ABU1308

But if he letteth him go, and interfereth not with him, let him say, "Praise be unto Thee, O Lord of all the worlds! Verily, I am content with Thy good pleasure and what Thou hast predestined unto me in Thy path, even though I did desire that the earth might be dyed with my blood for Thy love. But what Thou willest is best for me: verily, Thou knowest what is in myself, while I know not what is in Thy Self; and Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Informed."  BH04073

How often doth man flee from one thing, fixing all his hopes upon another, yet in the end it becometh apparent that the object of desire is harmful and deleterious, whereas the thing despised is the source of advantage and benefit! Tread, therefore, the path of acquiescence and resignation. Let no hardship sadden thy heart, nor set thy hope upon any worldly gifts. Be happy and content with whatsoever God hath willed, that thy heart and soul may find tranquillity and thine inner being and conscience may experience true joy.  AB04112

Contentment is the antidote for all the social diseases. It is a divine virtue to be satisfied with very few things. Contentment is the master-key to all success. If the members of my family starve I will not ask money from the people. It is more kingly to be satisfied with a crust of stale bread than to enjoy a good dinner composed of many delicious dishes the money for which comes out of the pocket of others. A Bahai must be satisfied. There was a time that I lived on five cents a day and I was then much happier than I am now.  ABU1198

One of the companions of the Messenger of God, peace be upon Him, whose prayers were answered, developed severe eye ailment in his final days. Someone asked why he would not pray for himself that God, exalted be His glory, might grant healing. He replied: 'God's decree is dearer to me than my eye.' If one attains to the sweetness of these words - that is, comprehends them - boundless joy will take hold of him. Praise be to God that that honored one was confirmed in submission, contentment and gratitude at the appearance of the divine decree.  BH08168

In the tradition it is recorded: "Whoso is not content with My decree, let him seek another Lord than Me." To be content with His decree means that thou shouldst seek with heart and soul every tribulation in the path of God and endure with the utmost joy every affliction. Thou shouldst taste deadly poison as though it were sweet honey, and seek destructive venom as though it were pure nectar. For although these tribulations are bitter, they yield sweet fruits and bestow infinite delight. This is the meaning of "Whoso is not content with My decree, let him seek another Lord than Me."  AB08146

O servant of God! Before God's will there is no refuge but radiant acquiescence and resignation. All one's plans and anticipated projects can only yield results if they are in conformity with His decree. For if one's limited plans are not in keeping with this pre-ordained and divine destiny, what can a weak servant do? What can a piece of straw possibly do when faced with the tempestuous winds? How can a mere gnat resist the gusts of a tornado? So it is better and more becoming that a servant should walk this path of radiance and contentment, that he should seek whatever God hath willed for him and neither to grow dejected nor embittered nor hardened of heart.  AB07921

By Thy might, O Thou the Lord of manifest signs, hadst Thou accepted a sacrifice for these great calamities, we would have offered up our hearts and souls for them. But Thy inscrutable decree and irrevocable ordinance in all matters is not kept back by sacrifices, and the powers of earth and heaven are not able to resist them and this, verily, is by virtue of Thy profound wisdom invested within the realities of all things. Thou doest as Thou willest and rulest as Thou pleasest. There is no recourse for us but resignation and utter submission to Thy command, and patience and serenity at the manifestation of Thy decree, and deference to Thy will at the raging of fierce tribulations.  AB00350
