


What I have spoken is according to the capacity of the people and the exigency of the time.   ABU3464

Tell the students that the Cause [amr] is not yet mature nor has it reached its appointed time.  BB00627

However, they must observe what is wise for the Cause and what the exigencies of the time require  BH11182

"each time has its requirements, according to which divine teachings emerge from the source of God's will"   ABU0535

Whatever is permissible for publication in these days is given permission to be published, for every time has its requirements.  AB11143

We hope that matters will be set right, and if at times there is delay, this is due to the requirements of God's consummate wisdom.   BH03817

The truth is that it is not befitting for man to be carnivorous. However, man has accustomed himself to such a life and now it has become routine and acceptable. That is why its prohibition is not advisable at present.  ABU3299

The burial of others without permission is not allowed, unless it would cause corruption. In such case, one must act according to the requirements of wisdom.  BH00542

Know that each day has its own requirements, each era its own characteristics, each season its own foundation, and each time its own necessities and customs. Today, the most special of deeds and most excellent of actions is steadfastness and firmness in the Cause of the All-Glorious.  AB02114

According to the exigencies of the time, means, and consummate wisdom, the outpourings of the All-Merciful from the heaven of mercy shall be bestowed, both outwardly and inwardly.  BH11762

"It is necessary to move with wisdom according to the requirements of the time. Today in these regions, calm, silence and steadiness are needed so the enemies may think there is nothing happening."  AB00795

The hearts should be in utmost joy and delight, but outwardly wisdom must be observed. As before, the utmost consideration must be shown, for people are ignorant and indolent, unaware and heedless.   AB01059

Although teaching was commanded in the Tablet, this is not intended or desired in these days. They must act according to people's capacity. The more matters remain concealed in these days, the better.  BH00992

Of course, the second or social laws suited to the Mosaic dispensation and useful for the Jewish people at that time are now purposeless and ineffective and seem futile, but they were pertinent and useful at the time.  ABU1366

The Bab - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - expressed agreement with the people of the Furqan (Muslims) in most matters, that He might attract those heedless souls to the direction of awareness. And this agreement was manifested to such an extent that in some instances mention of the four well-known gates flowed from that blessed Pen. However, this Most Great Revelation rent asunder the veils with the finger of power  BH00164


Today all must arise with complete dedication to promote God's Cause, but only when wisdom requireth it. In all cases, observe its requirements. For instance, silence is preferable to speech when wisdom so dictates, and likewise the reverse. In these days silence is nearer to piety, as its opposite causeth mischief.  BH11523

For example, it is written in the Torah that if one breaks the teeth of another, his teeth must also be broken; and if one blinds the eyes of another, his eyes must also be blinded. For the sake of one dollar the thief's hand was to be cut off. Now, can such laws be permitted and enforced in this age! Surely, no one can say it is permissible.  ABU1372

At all times the world of existence is subject to the consummate wisdom of God, and every age has its decisive and conclusive decree. All things can be resisted save the exigencies of the time, for resistance to these is impossible. Time cannot be resisted, nor can its requirements be overcome. AB01216

In the Holy Tablets there is mention of observing wisdom and consideration of the exigencies of place and time. By this is not meant silence, whether spiritually or earthly, but the divine purpose has been that the candle should be lit in the gathering, not in the useless desert. That the water of divine mercy may rain down on the pure land, not on the barren soil.  AB00984

It is in accordance with the exigencies of time and place. The political affairs are not definitely fixed by Baha'o'llah. Political things will not remain unchanged. The politics of one hundred years ago are quite impracticable today. Whatever decision is arrived at by the members of the House of Justice (which is like a parliament) either unanimously or by a majority - according to the requirements of time and place - that is the Law of God.   ABU0685

The Ancient Beauty hath, considering the best interests of the Cause, revealed that it would be wise at this time for the loved ones of God in the land not to gather in numbers greater than the numerical value of the Greatest Name. Notwithstanding, educational meetings, philanthropic groups, consultative sessions and scholarly gatherings are also permissible -- nay, necessary and mandatory -- but if viewed with wisdom, it is apparent that all of these, for the time being, present certain difficulties.  AB01546

From the land of Kha, his honor Ismu'llah-i-Javad, upon him be 9 66 [Baha], who resided in Karbila, inquired that today the non-shaving of the head causeth commotion among the people and asked about the trials of the companions and their obligations. It was decreed that the performance of certain actions is for the time of the ascendancy of the Cause, and before its ascendancy all must act with wisdom, for if any soul becometh known by this name in certain lands, the people avoid them and the teaching of the Cause is delayed.  BH03105

Concerning thy question about wisdom: those ordinances which today cause the clamor of the heedless and the outcry of the ignorant must be carried out with the utmost discretion. There are many deeds that, when performed by an individual, none would be aware of them, while there are others that, when manifested, cause the opposition and objection of the heedless parties. Therefore, the Lord of Glory, exalted be His might, hath exempted His servants until such time as the Cause is made manifest through His all-prevailing sovereignty over all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH01739

In the early years, it was necessary to exalt the Word of God and manifest the Cause among His servants, even as the diffusion of the fragrances of the sublime Tablets and the sweet perfumes of the divine utterances were spread outwardly through messengers and inwardly through the angels brought nigh. Beyond what hearts and minds can comprehend was bestowed upon all who dwell on earth from the Source of the Cause and the Dayspring of grace. However, at present, the coming and going of designated souls is not viewed favorably, as it might cause perturbation in the hearts of the weak and the destruction of certain servants. Thus, from one perspective it is favored, and from another, it is not.   BH01220
