As to the record in the Bible concerning Adam's entering paradise, His eating from the tree and His expulsion through the temptation of Satan: These are all symbols beneath which there are wonderful and divine meanings not to be calculated in years, dates and measurement of time. Likewise, the statement that God created the heaven and the earth in six days is symbolic. We will not explain this further today. The texts of the Holy Books are all symbolical, needing authoritative interpretation.  ABU0403

And when We desired to manifest the Cause in the kingdom of creation, We took a handful of clay in the grasp of Our power, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Wise. Then We kneaded it with the waters of holiness and breathed into it a spirit from the spirits We had created in the heaven of eternity, and We fashioned it according to a temple from among the temples of holiness, and We named it Adam in the heaven of names  BH00227

Every Manifestation is the Adam of His time. (Adam means the type man, the perfect man.) There were one hundred thousand Adams before the Adam of biblical records each being the Manifestation of His own time or cycle. This cycle in which we are living and which has come to its full expression today having ended thus, is the long Adamic cycle, being five hundred thousand years. Five hundred thousand years ago a Great Manifestation came and founded it. From that time to the present we have had lesser cycles, such as the Adam of record, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, etc,." Today, which culminates this long cycle - Baha'u'llah being, in the words of 'Abdu'l-Baha, "The expression of maturity and perfection of humanity." In the time of Adam, the first prophet of record, we have the seed of Christ consciousness deposited embryonically by Adam. ABU3763

Suppose a mirror represents the prophets, and the sun represents God, and the sun's rays the Holy Spirit. The mirror of Adam was dull, for the people of the world were not sufficiently advanced at that time to receive more light than the mirror of Adam sent forth, therefore God reflected the light upon a dull glass.   ABU1184

The Tree of Life refers to human life - in forbidden things, meaning transgressions and desires make humans accountable and deprive them of the gifts of the paradise of the soul  ABU2063

We sent forth the First Creation by Our command, and We made him a Word, and We sent him to earth and made him the father of all creation. We gave him progeny from Our presence and made them inheritors.  BH00705


Thus doth He teach thee Who taught Adam all the names   BH07826

because of his quarrel with Satan, Adam was banished from Paradise  ABU3724

As God has repeatedly mentioned Adam's transgression in all the heavenly books  ABU2748

These are the sins of the world, the fruits of the tree from which Adam did eat.  ABU2403

As for Adam and Eve, they were husband and wife and the progenitors of the human race  AB10382

Consider that His Holiness Adam and others were in paradise, but as soon as conflict arose between His Holiness Adam and Satan in the Garden of Eden, all were expelled from paradise   AB02153

Among them was Adam, whom God forgave after he transgressed what was forbidden him, and made him a Prophet and sent him with truth to give glad tidings to those who were certain of the presence of God.  BH02051

We did forbid Adam and his mate from Our tree in that Gate, and We willed that they should draw nigh unto it according to what We knew concerning them. Thus did they draw nigh, and were deprived of the blessings of Paradise.  BB00002

As to what thou hast asked concerning the blessed verse in the Quran "And indeed We made a covenant with Adam..." God took a covenant from Adam, peace be upon him, that neither he nor his wife should approach the Tree, saying "Draw not nigh unto this Tree." The Tree is the Tree of Life, the Supreme Horizon, the Divine Lote-Tree, the Tree of Blessedness, and the Furthermost Sanctuary -- the station of Universal Reality, the Divine Essence, the Single Identity, and the Perfect Manifestation, which is distinguished by the mystery of existence and the Praiseworthy Light. Adam desired to manifest the Primary Effulgence, the Hidden Secret, and the Preserved and Guarded Symbol during his cycle and dispensation -- that is, in its complete revelation and manifestation -- but this was not possible. AB08363

Adam is the symbol of the childhood of the race of man. Childhood has not a great capacity, therefore when he put out his hand to take the apple, he had not the capacity to receive such great knowledge as the apple symbolizes.   ABU3083

O maid-servant of God, the example of His Holiness Christ is similar to His Holiness Adam. Did the first man who was created in the world have a father and mother? Certainly, he had no father nor mother, and thus Jesus was without father.  AB10306

Verily We commanded the angels to prostrate before Adam of the Gate, and the angels all prostrated in truth upon the ground of the heart together, save Iblis who refused and grew proud concerning Our command, and was thus in the Mother Book rejected from that Gate.  BB00002

The substance of Adam's physical life was dust. In the Torah it is written that the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul. Observe that it states Adam came into being through the breath of life.  AB01218

The story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden is in reality an illustration of the development of man, or rather the evolution of the power of God in mankind, from its conception. By Adam is really intended the reality of the existence (or essence) of man, his five ranks or stations in his existence.  ABU0217

All things when God created them were perfect, until Adam and Eve left the garden and Cain killed Abel. Then the lands and those upon them changed, and things fell into a drunken state and heedlessness, turning away from their Beloved and toward themselves, unmindful of the path of their servitude to God  BB00354

Our Lord said, "You believe in the Creation of man?" (Adam) They said "Yes." Our Lord said to them "And who were the father and mother of Adam? You said that you couldn't believe that Jesus Christ could be born without an earthly father (when he had a Mother) yet you can believe that Adam was born without either."  ABU1419

The tree of Adam represents the maturity of the world. Adam desired that the world's maturity be manifested in that age, which caused delay. It is like when a loving father wishes his infant to partake of the most delicate and delicious foods, but the infant's stomach cannot digest it, producing the opposite effect and depriving him even of his basic nourishment.  AB04692

The Bab said: "The day of Adam is, as compared with the Day of the Blessed Perfection, as a child in the womb of its mother beside a full grown and perfect man." He did not mean that the world was then in its infancy, but that the Bounties of God then poured out upon all the people of those days were so much less than those manifested in the days of the Blessed Perfection.   ABU0810

As regards the story of Adam, peace be upon him, its outward meaning is not what is intended, but rather its inner significances. The tree is none other than the Tree of Life, firmly rooted, with branches extending to the vault of heaven, ever-bearing fruit and breaking the fast of every spiritual wayfarer. The prohibition given to Adam was not a legislative or prescriptive prohibition, but rather an existential one - like the prevention of an embryo from assuming the conditions of a mature adult. The tree represents a station reserved exclusively for the Lord of existence, who attained the praised station - the Beloved of the Lord of being, Muhammad the Chosen One, upon him be greetings and praise. Eve represents Adam's own soul. Adam loved and yearned for the manifestation of divine perfections and heavenly attributes, whose appearance was contingent upon the manifestation of the Lord of existence. He was addressed with an existential address that this matter was impossible of attainment, like the impossibility of reason and maturity appearing in embryos while still in the womb or in the seed while still in the loins. He desired the appearance of these divine perfections and heavenly qualities during the embryonic stage, which was impossible and unattainable. Thus difficulty arose and the result was but a simple matter - this being the departure from Paradise. AB00134

God taught Adam the names of all beneath his station, and this Adam, our father Adam, is a thousand thousand Adams removed from the First Adam, yet he cannot know the names of the Imams, for even Jesus, noblest of prophets, admitted this, as God relates his words: "I know not what is in Thy Self." What is related in traditions that God taught Adam the names of the Five for his repentance - Muhammad, Ali, Fatima, Hasan and Husayn - such that none calls upon God through them but God must answer, that knowledge was at Adam's station, and nothing surpasses its source. BB00098

As to the matter of Adam and the tree, it is not as the common people understand. The purpose of the tree is the station of the manifestation of maturity of the divine command in its highest station, and this is conditional upon the Promised Day. Before the Promised Day, the manifestation of maturity and growth is not possible. Adam desired that the Law of God reach its ultimate degree of maturity, but this was not possible, for the maturity and growth of God's Cause was dependent and conditional upon the Blessed Promised Day. For example, an infant at nursing cannot possibly manifest all human perfections nor partake of delicious foods, but must be content with milk until reaching maturity when human perfections become manifest and evident in him.  AB00038

In terms of truth and the eating of the tree by Adam, as recorded in the Torah, God placed Adam in the garden of Eden to work and tend it, and said to Him: "Eat freely of every tree of the garden, save for the tree of good and evil, for if thou wert to eat thereof thou wouldst surely die." Then it is said that God caused Adam to sleep, took a bone from His ribs, and created a woman to be His companion. Further on it is said that the serpent tempted the woman to eat of the tree, saying: "God has forbidden you to eat from the tree, that your eyes may not be opened and that you may not discern good from evil." Then Eve ate from the tree and gave unto Adam, who also ate. Whereupon their eyes were opened, they found themselves naked, and they covered their nakedness with leaves.   AB00100

As for the matter of "Adam disobeyed" and the verse "that which preceded of thy sin and that which followed" - this station is where "the good deeds of the righteous are the sins of those drawn nigh" and "thy very existence is a sin that no sin can encompass." A breath on the mirror appears, and imaginary dust in the eye causes distress. The Exalted One says "even thy seeking nearness to Me is like the polytheism of others." Now, God forbid one should say that seeking nearness to God is sin and polytheism, and therefore the Holy Manifestations are not the embodiment of the Most Great Infallibility. I seek God's forgiveness from this! They are infallible, protected, holy and preserved. AB00353

Adam's lamentation for seventy thousand years does not refer to known years and counted time, but rather to an assumed period encompassing an extended time - like the Day of Resurrection which was specified as fifty thousand years yet passed in a single minute, like the twinkling of an eye, or even less.   AB00216

The meaning of Adam is the reality that bestows bounties, is manifest and active, for in him are comprised the outward manifestations of the divine names and attributes, and the various states of the All-Merciful. Eve is the reality that is dependent, on which bounties are bestowed, which is subservient and influenced, for it is under the influence of all the divine names and attributes.  AB00328

God has always judged the essence of all things without regard to their outward form. Consider the tradition regarding the Proof, where he, peace be upon him, says: "Whoever wishes to behold Adam, let him look upon..." and did not say "look at Adam," even though Adam was alive upon the earth. Not in the sense of that primordial, original, innate Adamic nature, but rather through the manifestation of those divine attributes - that same Adam was alive. Yet the judgment pertains to what lies within, for the essence that was in Adam was the divine manifestation, and thus He made him Adam. When that manifestation transferred to another throne, this became the throne of manifestation, and likewise until it transferred to Muhammad, the Messenger of God.  BB00005

