
go back to the foundation work, agriculture  ABU0124

On days when work is forbidden, farmers should postpone irrigation until the following day.  AB11162

When I go to Haifa and Acca I will get a piece of land and plow it and cultivate it with my own hand.  ABU3210


to investigate the state of political parties, government, civilization, industry, commerce and agriculture   AB06412

riches earned by personal effort with divine assistance, in various trades, agriculture and the arts, and rightly administered, are justly deserving of praise  ABU3427

Agriculture is a noble science and, should thy son become proficient in this field, he will become a means of providing for the comfort of untold numbers of people   AB12015

When we turn our gaze on the world of being we see that during the season when the clouds pour down their rain and the sun sheds its warm rays every farmer who sows his seeds will reap a reward and gather an abundant and overflowing harvest.   AB05368

They will instruct you in many lessons of agriculture. They will teach you farming along modern lives...Those farmers who believe in God, practice virtue, and are striving in their avocation, He will open before their faces the doors of heavenly blessings.  ABU1467

O divine husbandman! If thou art able, sow a seed in this divine field, that thou mayest be confirmed by the blessed verse which declareth: "As a grain of corn that groweth seven ears, and in each ear a hundred grains, for God giveth manifold increase unto whomsoever He willeth."  AB09347

Every true farmer occupies himself solely with planting, while the heedless think of harvest during planting season. Harvesting is indeed one of the pillars of agriculture, but not during planting time. The threshing floor is the outcome of farming, but not during the time of irrigation   AB04977

O servant of the All-Merciful! If thou art able, plant a seed in this divine field, so that thou mayest be confirmed by the blessed verse which declareth: "as a grain of corn that groweth seven ears, and in each ear a hundred grains. And God giveth manifold increase unto whomsoever He willeth."  AB09347

And after the machinery is properly operating and ultimate proficiency in its use has been gained through experience, and you are certain there will be no delays or interruptions in the equipment, at that time purchase the designated land. We have placed one of the well-trained youth of the friends who has completed primary schooling into agricultural school to study this field.  AB00808

Regarding agriculture, they have given a general ruling in these matters, which is that it is obligatory for every soul to engage in a profession, agriculture, or craft... Thus, in the days of departure from Iraq, although preparations were being made for migration, nevertheless they were engaged in farming, and at the time of departure it was commanded that the harvest be distributed among the friends.  BH11762

This tea was grown and cultivated on your farm. Indeed it is very pleasant and acceptable. Firstly, that it comes from the produce of a friend's farm is merit enough, and secondly, its fragrance and taste are also pleasing. My hope is that through your efforts the cultivation of tea in those regions will expand and spread to other provinces, so that Iran will be content with tea that comes from Iran itself.   AB04749

Horticulture is one of the most fascinating arts. I love it and watch the growth of the trees and flowers as one watches the growth of the babes.   ABU2791

Strive as much as you can to attain utmost skill in the science of agriculture, for according to the divine teachings, acquiring sciences and perfecting crafts is considered worship.   AB05132
The reform will have to start with the land, the source of all wealth. I should like to develop an agrarian community, founded on perfect justice.  ABU3764
 
