Let them become independent of consciousness-removing wines through the celestial wine and divine attraction, and associate with people in utmost sanctity, purity and detachment.  AB01210

Regarding the matter of hashish, you wrote that some Iranians are afflicted with its consumption. Glory be to God! This intoxicant is worse than all intoxicants and its prohibition is explicit. It causes confusion of thoughts and deadening of the human spirit in all conditions. How can people become familiar with this fruit of the Zaqqum tree and become afflicted with a state that makes them truly subhuman? How can they use this prohibited thing and become deprived of the favors of the All-Merciful Lord? Most assuredly, absolutely, you must counsel people as much as you can to become averse to this opium and hashish of Zaqqum and to repent before the Divine Threshold. Wine causes the mind to become oblivious and leads to ignorant behavior, but this filthy opium and vile hashish eliminate reason, deaden the soul, freeze the spirit, weaken the body, and render one completely frustrated and lost. Despite this, how can one dare to use it? Observe how the people of India and China, being addicted to smoking this plant of the depths of hell, are deadened, stupefied, downtrodden, abject and degraded. A thousand of them cannot resist one person. Eight hundred million Chinese people could not stand against a few regiments of Europeans, because cowardice, fear and dread have been kneaded into their nature due to smoking opium. Glory be to God! Why do others not learn from this? And according to reports this abominable practice has spread to the realm of Iran as well. May God protect us and you from this abominable prohibited thing, this filthy smoke and Zaqqum of hell, as God, blessed and exalted be He, has said: "It will boil in their bellies like scalding water." AB01905



the cultivation of opium is not permitted except for medical treatment, as it is used in most treatments   AB03806

The news about the prohibition of opium brought joy and delight.  AB01916

If thou hast abandoned wine which befuddles the mind and consciousness and dulls perception  AB11220

As for the treatise you have written condemning intoxicants, it is permissible to publish it   AB01000

Pray thou God for this (attainment), and I will pray to Him to awaken the two people that they may avoid alcoholic drinks.  AB07837

Man should be intoxicated by gaining increased intelligence, not by that which quenches reason and decreases consciousness.  ABU3394

For example, one drinks a cup of wine. Temporarily one feels elation and joy, but does not see the hangover and harm that follows.   ABU2055

As for what thou hast asked about the permissibility of wine - this matter has never been issued from the Most Glorious Pen, for wine dulls the mind.  AB12196

As a safeguard against intemperance he does not drink wine or spirits. Baha'u'llah has said it is not good for a sane man to take that which will destroy his health and sense.  ABU1105

Be ye intoxicated with the wine of the love of God, not with that which confoundeth your minds, O ye who are devout! It hath been forbidden unto every believing man and woman.   BH04849

The major part of their lives is spent in the gratification of the appetites, sensuality, dancing halls and theatres, wine drinking, association with undesirable stratum of the community in which they live   ABU3095

As for the matter of drinking wine, this too is forbidden in the Tablets of Baha'u'llah. Surely throughout the world this pressing affliction will ultimately be eliminated through divine assistance and grace  AB03188

It hath been forbidden in the Book for people to smoke tobacco and drink wine, and God hath not placed any healing in them. Those who prescribe them for some people have ruled by the judgment of the Evil One.   BB00357

Whoso drinketh that which depriveth him of his faculties, upon him shall be incumbent from the Book of God ninety-five mithqals of gold. Never treat your sick with intoxicants, if ye believe in God and His signs.  BB00020

But they must on no account allow their children to drink wine or alcoholic drinks. Abdul-Baha spoke of the Druzes who never drank wine or smoked, and in consequence of this, many diseases were quite unknown to them.  ABU2199

Regarding what you wrote about opium, although it has had some benefit at times, its harm has been and continues to be considerable. This blessed word was heard from the Master's tongue - this year they prohibited it.  BH06925

It hath been forbidden in the Book to drink wine and smoke tobacco, also opium and wrongful deeds, and intoxicants and whatsoever is not sanctioned by God, and the consumption of all unclean things - how little do ye remember!  BB00056

The wise person sees the consequences of matters, not their beginnings. For example, one drinks a cup of wine. Temporarily one feels elation and joy, but does not see the hangover and harm that follows. Gambling is the same way.   ABU2055

Divine wisdom is such that one benefits from honey and is harmed by poison, yet man reaches such a state that he becomes so addicted to opium that if he does not consume it he will die - not that these habits were created in him.  ABU1547

Beware lest you exchange the wine of God for your own wine, for it clouds the mind and turns the face away from the face of God, the Mighty, the Wondrous, the Inaccessible. And you must not approach it, for it hath been forbidden unto you by God, the Exalted, the Great.   BH04606

likewise from the abandonment of opium cultivation and tobacco use, for opium, except in treating known illnesses, causes the destruction of souls and eternal death of man, and likewise from smoking tobacco there is no result or fruit except wasting time and acquiring illness.  AB03683


In the earliest days of arrival in the prison, that which would enlighten those possessed of insight became manifest, namely that the manufacture of opium is not acceptable in the sight of God.  Nevertheless, your honor engaged in that which was not permissible. Now must ye cleave unto that which is worthy of acceptance.  BH00236

Say: The use of opium hath been forbidden unto you in God's Book, the All-Commanding, the All-Wise. It harmeth you and benefiteth you not. This is what ye have been commanded, both before and after, through clear verses and manifest proofs. Blessed is he who acteth in accordance with that which he hath been commanded by God, the Supreme, the Self-Subsisting.  BH00050


In reality wine or spirits taken even in moderate quantities does not permanent good. It is like urging a horse to full speed by whipping him. The whip represents the effect of wine on man's body. Wine taken as a medicine for weak people, who have all their lives been used to it, is permitted. But they must on account allow their children to drink wine or alcoholic drinks.  ABU2766

Gambling and the use of opium have been forbidden unto you. Eschew them both, O people, and be not of those who transgress. Beware of using any substance that induceth sluggishness and torpor in the human temple and inflicteth harm upon the body. We, verily, desire for you naught save what shall profit you, and to this bear witness all created things, had ye but ears to hear.... It hath been forbidden you to smoke opium. We, truly, have prohibited this practice through a most binding interdiction in the Book. Should anyone partake thereof, assuredly he is not of Me. Fear God, O ye endued with understanding!  BH00001

It is said that at one time a King went out travelling incognito. He put on a humble suite of cloth[es] and started on his way. After a few days journey he lost his way in the scorching desert and finally reached at the door of an Arab tent. The Arab finding the man exhausted from heat and hunger dragged him under the shade. When the King was revived he asked the Arab what he had to eat and drink. "I have a goat-skin of wine and a little goat" the Arab answered. "Very well. Bring the wine and kill the goat to be cooked." he said. The wine was brought. When the King drank one cup he looked at the Arab and said: "Do you know who I am?" "No." "Then you must know that I am a soldier in the King's Army." The Arab was glad to entertain a brave man.  He drank another cup. "Do you know who I am?" "Who are you?" "I am a Minster in the King's Council Chamber." "I am delighted to receive such a distinguished statesman."  A third cup was taken. "Do you know who I am?" "Well?" "I am the King himself." The Arab could not stand it any longer. He arose from his place and took from him the goat-skin of wine. "Why do you do this for?" the guest asked astonished. "Because I believe if you drink another cup you will declare yourself to be the prophet of God and a fifth cup may raise you to the station of God, so it is better for you to cool down a little, to cool down a little."   ABU1591

It is a pity that in the prime of youth he should become addicted to drink. If he gives it up, he will become illumined, spiritual and confirmed by divine favors. I will always pray: "O God! Protect Thy servants from drinking wine and prevent them from intoxicants. O Lord! Remove this affliction from the face of the earth until no trace of intoxicants remains and no mention of smoking tobacco is heard."   AB06945

One meaning of "the accursed tree" is tobacco, which is detestable, condemned, harmful and poisonous. It wastes wealth and brings illness and melancholy. As for wine, by the explicit text of the Most Holy Book, its consumption is forbidden, for its drinking causes chronic diseases, weakens the nerves and impairs reason. But hashish is worse than all, and opium destroys the very foundation of faith, certitude and the human race.  AB10382


Wine is always a dangerous thing to take and no good effects ever come from it. It is man-made and not created by GOD. Had GOD created it, He would have put it into the grapes! Grapes are very good things to eat, especially at this seasons when they are ripe and of fine flavor; but do not touch the wine—that is bad! There is a certain effect from wine, but it is only good while it lasts, and no permanent good could ever come from it.   ABU0941

The judge was accustomed to inject opium in his system, a very bad evil. The Master made him give it up; his family were most thankful and pleased. The judge would say that when the time of injection arrives and I do not get it I feel as dead, weak and impotent. "He was a drunkard before he said but if he did not drink for a day or two he would feel the longing for it as the injection of opium." Finally he had a hard fight but he gave it up at last.  ABU1376

According to the text of the Book of Aqdas, both light and strong drinks are prohibited. The reason for this prohibition is that alcohol leadeth the mind astray and causeth the weakening of the body. If alcohol were beneficial, it would have been brought into the world by the divine creation and not by the effort of man. Whatever is beneficial for man existeth in creation. Now it hath been proved and is established medically and scientifically that liquor is harmful.  AB02266

Another subject which was discussed was 'smoking' and 'drinking' because the Druises as a rule are addicted to neither of these two evil habits. Mohamadan history contains many references to these subjects and the Master pointed out that there were in the past ages many temperance Societies and as a result of their activities teetotalers became very numerous. There were many men and women who abstained totally from all intoxicating drinks and especially from smoking tobacco.  ABU1051

Concerning opium which you wrote about - the user, buyer and seller are all deprived of divine grace and bounty, and by explicit divine text it is forbidden. The wine drinker is a hundred thousand degrees better than the opium user. It was extremely condemned in the Holy Presence, such that whenever opium use was mentioned, the Blessed Face would change. It is forbidden to this degree, unless someone buys and sells it for medical treatment, as used in pharmacies solely for treating illnesses. My wish is that, God willing, the friends will gradually abstain even from smoking tobacco, let alone opium.   AB00695

As for the matter of opium - it makes souls lower than dust and more decayed than rotting bones. How strange and peculiar it is that a person would make himself a living dead one, dejected and withered, and though seeing no benefit but only harm, how can one still persist in attaining this harm? By God besides Whom there is no God! It would be better for a living person to sit in a grave than to use opium and become a manifestation of various forms of insanity. You must definitely counsel both friend and stranger and prevent them from this abhorrent deed, for today at the Most Holy Threshold opium use is the greatest of forbidden things.  AB00532

I beseech God to aid the loved ones of that land to forsake that which hath been forbidden by the Most Exalted Pen in His Most Holy Book. His blessed and exalted Word is: "It hath been forbidden you to smoke opium. We, verily, have prohibited this practice through a most binding prohibition in the Book. Should anyone partake thereof, he is not of Me. Fear God, O ye men of understanding!" And in another passage: "The use of opium hath been forbidden unto you, as well as gambling. Eschew them both, O people, and be not of the transgressors. Beware of using any substance that induceth sluggishness and torpor in the human temple and inflicteth harm upon the body. We, verily, desire for you naught save what shall profit you, and to this bear witness all created things, would that ye could perceive it."  It is most regrettable that man should allow his desires to lead him away from the divine Will and the binding decree of His Book, and act contrary to His good-pleasure. Take heed, O brethren, and cleave unto God's compassionate counsels and hold fast unto them. This is better for you, did ye but know it.  BH00350


As to opium, it is foul and accursed. God protect us from the punishment He inflicteth on the user. According to the explicit Text of the Most Holy Book, it is forbidden, and its use is utterly condemned. Reason showeth that smoking opium is a kind of insanity, and experience attesteth that the user is completely cut off from the human kingdom. May God protect all against the perpetration of an act so hideous as this, an act which layeth in ruins the very foundation of what it is to be human, and which causeth the user to be dispossessed for ever and ever. For opium fasteneth on the soul, so that the user's conscience dieth, his mind is blotted away, his perceptions are eroded. It turneth the living into the dead. It quencheth the natural heat. No greater harm can be conceived than that which opium inflicteth.  AB00109

Concerning what actually occurred with the opium - He said it was not permissible, but "Verily We have forgiven it, and it is from Us." With such a blessed word, it is not permissible for your honor to be grieved.  BH06136

Regarding what you wrote about one of the handmaidens of God who used opium for pain and who, after the prohibition was declared, abandoned it and nearly perished - the divine decree is that the patient must follow the physician's directions, but the physician must be skilled. In such case, whatever is prescribed must be followed, for the preservation of human life is, in God's sight, greater than any other matter. God, exalted be His glory, hath given precedence to the science of medicine, for in the existence and health of the body lies the obligation to carry out His laws. Thus health was and shall remain of primary importance.  BH00093
