Although sensitivity in plants is slight as compared with that manifested in animals, within their own kingdom they have sensitivity and vegetable spirit. Cut across a conical shape, sprinkle a little sulphate of copper on it, add a little water and then observe it with a magnifier. You will find its components rushing toward the center. Their sensitivity is apparent in their effort to reach the center until they form a cylinder.   ABU2758

Reason has its seat in the brain, sight in the eye, hearing in the ears, speech in the tongue. The force of gravity is localized in the center of the earth. Everything on the surface of the earth is attracted toward the center. Our light is localized in the sun. The heat of the sun transforms minerals, vegetables, animals, and man.   ABU1348

Life is motion. Progress and movement are the two unchangeable laws of the Universe.  ABU2506


The air if there is no wind, is without motion, becomes impure. When water is still its stagnates. All the plants are moving there is motion in everything.   ABU1067

There is motion in everything, all the plants are moving. All bodies whether large or small are moving. There is no globe which is absolutely stationary.   ABU1945

The elemental atoms which constitute all phenomenal existence and being in this illimitable universe are in perpetual motion, undergoing continuous degrees of progression.  ABU0024

The world moves by this motion and the celestial spheres rotate by the name of your Ancient Lord. Can you remain still while the Spirit soars between the heavens and earth?   BH03124

Lack of motion in any form of life is a sign of mortality. Any form of life that is motionless is subject to disintegration. Still water becomes stagnant. Air that is motionless becomes stale and impure. One who does not exercise will be attacked by disease. A tree that is not subjected to the motion of breezes will become dry. Therefore all forms of life must be constantly in motion.   ABU0942

When staying and residing in one place continues for long, inevitably some weariness results. You are right - all created things are in motion, and through this universal motion the order of the world of existence is maintained. If any created thing becomes fixed in one place and ceases from motion, decline inevitably occurs. The breeze must constantly blow, the sea must have waves and motion, the stars must transit through the constellations.  AB03381

For example the center of intelligence is the brain. The center of vision is the eye. The center of hearing is the ear. The center of speech is the tongue. For the power of gravitation, there is a center which is betwixt the heaven and earth. All the composite elements of this globe gravitate around that center. Where is the center of light? It is the Sun.   ABU0827

All created forms are progressive in their planes, or kingdoms of existence, under the stimulus of the power or spirit of life. The universal energy is dynamic. Nothing is stationary in the material world of outer phenomena or in the inner world of intellect and consciousness.  ABU0161


The mineral carbon changes in many stations until diamonds are produced from it.  ABU1331

As long as the birds are soaring aloft they are, moment by moment, rising in station but as soon as they stand still, their fall begins.  AB11604

"For instance, as long as the bird soars or moves upward in the air, it is in progress. But no sooner it pauses than it begins to descend."   ABU1474

The line of Progress is perpendicular and it has no end. Progress is infinite but there are many degrees. Each animate or inanimate organism advances along its own degree.   AB03068

Man must always advance. As soon as man remains stationary in a certain cause he will go backward. Therefore he must strive that man may advance day by day, that he may progress in all the worlds.  ABU2380

Man must take a lesson from divine actions and deeds for God suffers a tree to grow a long time before it attains to perfection. He is able to make a tree grow to fruition in an instant, but wisdom requires a gradual development.  AB11424

When one stops, he descends. A bird, when it is flying, soars; but as soon as it stops, it falls. While man is directed upward, he develops. As soon as he stops, he descends. Therefore I wish the beloved of God always to ascend and develop.  ABU1504

You who are the grass of this garden must bloom and grow like the cypress and jasmine in this meadow and field. A tree that does not become green and fresh from the spring wind and the rain of Farvardin and the bounty of Ordibehesht - in what other season will it bear sweet fruit?   AB03420

Furthermore, spirits progress through all the worlds - just as the mineral spirit ascends to the plant world, the plant spirit to the animal world, and the animal spirit ascends and transfers to the human world. In the same way, the human spirit ascends to divine worlds and higher stations.  ABU1969


The mineral is the lowest form of life, it could not go lower. Ignorance is the lowest type, we can not go back of that. Darkness is the absence of light, there could be no lower plane in that respect. So man does not go backward from the physical or human position. It is only when he has begun to ascend that he can descend.   ABU3064

The motion of the child from the prebirth stage to the time of maturity is motion toward perfection. Essential is stage from nothingness into being. But the main motion is based upon the holy books which give life to man and lifts him from a miserable stage to that of exaltation. It moves man from the center of eternal degradation to the center of eternal life. This is the real and important motion.   ABU1067

There are different degrees of motion. There is a motion of transit, that is from place to place. For example, the revolution of the earth around the sun; a bird flies from branch to branch. Another kind is the motion of inherent growth, like that of man from the condition of childhood to the estate of manhood, or the development of a tree from the seedling to its full fruition. The third is the motion of condition - the sick man passes from the stage of sickness to the state of health. The fourth motion is that of the spirit. For instance, the child while in the mother's womb has all the potential qualities of the spirit, but those qualities begin to unfold little by little as the child is born and grows and develops, finally manifesting all the attributes and qualities of the spirit. The fifth is the motion of the intellect whereby the ignorant become wise; the indifferent, alert; the dark, illuminated and the carnally-minded, spiritual.  In this century a great impelling stream is manifest in the world of intellect. Minds have been stirred by this impulse and have made marvelous progress.  The sixth motion is that of the eternal essence. That is to say, all phenomena either step forth from the arena of non-existence into non-existence. Just as being in motion is the test of life, so being stationary is the test of death and when a moving object stops it retrogrades. To stop means to fall. When a tree stops giving fruit it decays.  ABU0989


Everything travels or moves in everything   ABU3242

The world of creation is in motion and movement.  AB04118

The world of existence is in motion and movement, and the world of creation is a mirror of the favors of the All-Merciful Lord. AB04375

Now it is known that all motions are forced motions. This sun is compelled to move, even these other spheres are compelled to move. All are forced, not volitional.   ABU0675

There are two kinds of changes and alterations. One causes descent and one ascent. The one which causes descent is not good, but on the contrary. The other change, which causes ascent, is acceptable.  ABU1331

The cause of motion is heat, and the cause of ascension is lightness. God willing, the fire of the love of God which is deposited in thy verses will become the cause of ascension and the reason for motion  BH11852

He Who is both the Beginning and the End, He Who is both Stillness and Motion, is now manifest before your eyes. Behold how, in this Day, the Beginning is reflected in the End, how out of Stillness Motion hath been engendered.  BH02747

Thou hadst asked about the motion and rest of things - whether they are by God's will. This is certainly so, for the sustenance of existence comes from the All-Bountiful. If sustenance from God did not reach existence, no created thing would move.  AB02907

Motion is one of the essential requirements of the realities of beings and the cause of attaining universal benefits in the world of creation. From the minutest particles to the greatest universal bodies in this infinite space of the world of creation, all are in motion, for motion is one of the requirements of existence - without it there is nonexistence and loss. When water becomes still it becomes altered, when air becomes stagnant it becomes corrupt, when bodies cease from motion they become subject to illness and disease. Therefore it is better that one attain essential motion, seek existential motion, desire qualitative motion, attain material motion and seek spiritual motion. All these motions are the cause of deliverance. Therefore if you are traveling and in motion it is certainly better than being lifeless, sluggish, melancholy and tormented in one place.  AB05629

Motion is the sign of life. If there be no wind, no motion the air becomes impure. When water is stagnant it also becomes impure. The point is this, that all existing things are in motion, that motion is the cause of life and lack of motion is the cause of death.   ABU1945

O Thou attracted to the love of God! Be thou in constant flux, in ebb and flow of the spirit, in permanent motion. Nevertheless, focus thy movement and thy stillness round a single Point and fix thy speech and thy silence upon one central and essential utterance.   AB06307

All things in creation require motion for their existence, from smallest particles to largest bodies. Motion brings universal benefits. Without motion there is nonexistence. Water becomes altered when still, air corrupts when stagnant, bodies become ill when motionless.  AB05629

We hear the murmur of the sea always continuing. It never ceases. Were it to cease, the world would be dead, stagnant, lifeless. But the waves of the mind of man are far greater than those of the sea; they also are ceaseless. They never stop for one instant. This movement is good.   ABU2377

There are other kinds of motion. One is a local motion, which is dependent upon condition. For example, the turning of wine into vinegar. A second is an essential motion, such as when the body of man develops into maturity. Another is a spiritual motion, which is the attraction of the hearts.   ABU0942

We have made heat the cause of motion, and We have sanctified it above the types of motion mentioned in the books of men, for it has appeared from thy Lord's word without how or gesture. Reflect and be of the thankful. The world moves by this motion and the celestial spheres rotate by the name of your Ancient Lord.   BH03124

Consider the clock, which, though a lifeless object, made of mere metal, by virtue of its order and skilled design is possessed of a highly regular movement. Though it is an inanimate object, it can determine the time cycles of the glorious sun itself. It acts as the harbinger of the rising of the daystar of the ethereal heaven. A mighty outcome as this can result when a tiny and delicate movement appeareth in a heavy object. Shouldst the movement of a spiritual yearning, which is like unto the spirit of this physical world, appear in the body of man, consider what manifest fruits and luminous perfections shall come forth! Therefore beseech God that through the divine means and spiritual powers, He may cause a movement in the consciousness of the human beings, and that thou mayest become like unto a timepiece for the movement of the stars of the Concourse on High and the celestial bodies of the All Glorious Kingdom and, even as a victorious spirit, become the means through which the body of this contingent world is moved and stirred.  AB05271

All beings are in motion, there is no stationary thing, for motion is among the requirements of existence while stillness is among the characteristics of non-existence - meaning there is no existent thing that lacks motion. In the divine Tablets this matter is explicit that all luminous and non-luminous bodies, even the particles of creation, are in motion either primarily or derivatively.   AB00938

Be moved by the motion apparent from the heat of God's compelling Word, which God hath made sanctified from the three motions which are the six and what is above them of the motions mentioned in the books of the people. Thus doth the Lord of all beings command thee. And this motion, though it revolveth around itself, yet it hath motions which none knoweth save thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH01891

For example, if the Most Great Luminary of the horizons were to remain perpetually rising at the meridian circle, all generated beings, contingent things and visible realities would be burned up and destroyed. No spring would remain, nor flower garden, no tree or fruit, no summer or autumn, no April or October, no birds or living creatures or humans. It is therefore evident that these are signs of wisdom.   AB03164

There is motion in everything, all the plants are moving. All bodies whether large or small are moving. There is no globe which is absolutely stationary. Motion is the sign of life. If there be no wind, no motion the air becomes impure. When water is stagnant it also becomes impure. The point is this, that all existing things are in motion, that motion is the cause of life and lack of motion is the cause of death.   ABU1945

The world of existence came into being through the heat generated from the interaction between the active force and that which is its recipient. That is to say: The substance and primary matter of contingent beings is the ethereal power, which is invisible and known only through its effects, such as electricity, heat, and light-these are vibrations of that power, and this is established and proven in natural philosophy and is known as the ethereal matter.  AB00373

All created things move and stir according to their natural order without will. Therefore, among created beings, those possessed of spirit have will and choice, movement and acquisition, bestowed as the ultimate gift in their own realm. Animals are at the lowest degree of beings possessed of spirit, but as they are not endowed with reason and intelligence, if they move contrary to the natural order, they are excused in this pride, for they move according to nature's requirements and are captive to it without recourse to anything else.   AB00146

For example, [he says] motion is of two kinds: forced motion and circular motion. Circular motion is evidence of will. Since we observe circular motion in these spheres, they possess will, and therefore in these spheres there exists an intellectual force which is the governing force of that sphere. Now it is known that all motion is forced motion. This sun is compelled to move, even these other spheres are compelled to move. All motion is forced, not volitional. There is no circular motion; that connecting force that exists between all created things is one single motion.   ABU0675

All forms of life are in motion. There are various kinds of motion. All the stars in great firmament are in motion. Even the sun, with its numerous satellites revolving around it, has its motion. Everything is constantly moving. The earth is revolving on its own axis. The moon is revolving around the earth. The earth, with the moon, revolves around the sun, and on a larger scale the sun, with its satellites, revolves in another orbit. In brief, all these infinite bodies are constantly moving. All the atoms of existence are traveling, having either a special motion or a general motion.   ABU0942

Divine and all-encompassing Wisdom hath ordained that motion be an inseparable concomitant of existence, whether inherently or accidentally, spiritually or materially. This movement must be governed by some check or rein, some regulator or director, otherwise, order will be disrupted and the spheres and bodies will fall from the heavens. For this reason God brought into being a universal attractive force between these bodies to hold sway over them and govern them, a force deriving from the firm ties and the mighty correspondence that exist between the realities of these limitless worlds.  AB00023

All bodies move whether great or small. There is no globe that is stationary. The people were thinking that the poles were without motion. In reality they have motion-rotation-they have two motions, that of rotation and revolution, some of the bodies in the heavens have three motions. For instance the earth has rotation on its axis which produces the day and night; it has the movement around the sun which gives the seasons; the solar system moves around a center; that is, there is a sun which is the center of all suns. Our sun with all its planets is moving around this great center like the moon around the earth. The point is this: that all existing things (creation) are in motion. Therefore it is known that motion is the cause of life and lack of motion is indicative of decay or retrogression.   ABU1067
