
For the Truth sometimes jests and makes light - He promised punishment would descend upon the people of Jonah, but then due to their pleading and supplication, the sea of His mercy was stirred and He changed His decree, casting Jonah into the whale's mouth.  AB02815

O God, Thou didst intend by the mention of the Mother of the Book the word Bada', and by it the people worship through the word Baha, and fear the decree of fate. I, in my station before Thee, acknowledge to Thee the Bada' which Thou didst create before the decree, however Thou willeth, and whenever Thou willeth after its execution.   BB00145

It is among the established matters in the Cause of God that they said to Imam Ja'far-i-Sadiq that we were awaiting the seventh Imam and were saying 'their seventh is their Qa'im' - how is it that this did not come to pass? He replied I am that seventh one, but bada occurred. In brief, I told him that if bada was permissible regarding the Qa'im-hood of Imam Ja'far-i-Sadiq, now if appropriate action is not taken, bada is the easiest of matters.  AB03482

Concerning their Qa'imiyyat and Bada', it is related in Biharu'l-Anvar from 'Uthman Thuri that the Sadiq said: "This matter was concerning me, meaning it was the divine Will that I should arise and fill the earth with justice and equity, but Bada' occurred." Likewise, Majlisi relates in Bihar from the Sadiq who said: "The time for this matter was in the year 140, but when you were informed of it, you disclosed it; therefore God delayed that time." He also relates that the Sadiq, peace be upon him, said: "O Aba Ishaq, this matter was concerning me, but its time was delayed."  AB00235

Thus hath the breath of the All-Merciful wafted through the spirit of the Bayan, were ye of them that know. And today, since those who have turned away were not and are not capable of recognizing the supreme Example Who was God's proof and evidence, and since they are seen to be powerless to comprehend the subtleties of divine words, We shall therefore cite a lesser example, that perchance receptive souls might enter the garden of inner meanings: A king appointeth someone as governor with authority over all affairs, as can be seen in the case of certain governors who rule over lands on behalf of the king with full authority. Nevertheless, is the king able to remove them or not? If thou deniest this, thou art a liar, for it is evident that he is able.  BH00004
