the hosts of the angels of the Kingdom shall surround thee   AB06426

the angels of the Supreme Concourse will speak in her praise  ABU3108

Let the angels of Thy loving-kindness descend successively upon her   AB05996

the place wherefrom ascend and descend the angels that are nigh unto God.   BH09472

the angels of the highest heaven would successively send their confirmations  AB08027

That is the meaning of 'the angels who rejoice over one sinner who repents.'  ABU3249

And I seek assistance through God and rely upon God and upon the angels of God   BB00606

The angels of the highest paradise seek blessings from the dust of its holy presence   AB06507

The gate of heaven hath been opened and the angels and the Spirit descend at every moment.   BH05743

"By God the Truth, the angels of the Paradise of Holiness welcomed them with radiant faces"  AB05155

The clamor of the heedless has become the cause of a great celebration in the Supreme Concourse - the tribes of angels and the Spirit give each other glad tidings and prepare to welcome, for verily the blessed spirit of Mahdi has intended the Supreme Companion. BH09662

And thou shalt see the angels circling round the Throne, celebrating the praise of their Lord.   AB03923

In Islam we have Mohamad, Gabriel and Allah...God revealed Himself...to Mohamad through Gabriel  ABU2625

Verily those who say 'Our Lord is God' and then remain steadfast, the angels descend upon them.  AB09129

Verily, the heavenly angels address thee from the Supreme Horizon, saying: "O maid-servant of God!..."  AB08356

No word doth escape you but that angels from Us are present by the leave of the Remembrance as witnesses  BB00002

The guardian angels stand in ranks before the Face and present unto Us whatsoever hath transpired in thy land.   BH06750

You who are the memorial of that noble one must follow in his footsteps and move according to his way and conduct   AB06233

Concerning thy vision of the angels surrounding the great white throne: This "throne" is the body of the Greatest Name.   AB00438

The angels and the Spirit descend in that Gate by God's permission, rank upon rank, like an extended line around the Pole.  BB00002

Similarly, believing and assured souls are interpreted as angels, and unbelieving souls are designated as devils and jinn.  AB02401

By God the Truth, verily the angels of the Supreme Assembly pray for thee every morn and eve and announce to thee glad-tidings!   AB03526

The subscribers to this newspaper are frail humanity but the subscribers to that newspaper are the angels of the supreme Concourse.   ABU2626

And the angels of the Supreme Concourse have called out with a great and resonant voice in the ears of the people of earth and heaven  AB03051

verily, I say unto ye, then (when ye become so) the angels of holiness will welcome ye by the glad-tidings of God, the Mighty, the Powerful.  AB03255

in the lower realm, angels from Kingdom of Glory have arisen to pray and supplicate and to intone the verses of Divine Unity in a holy gathering.  AB12080

And send Thy blessings, O God, upon Gabriel, the worker of Thy white light, in every condition, before every condition, and after every condition.  BB00254

Those to whom you turn may be the mediators of God's power to you, even as when on earth. But it is the One Holy Spirit that strengthens all men.   ABU0975

Know thou verily, that letter is this glorious writing whereby I address thee; and, verily, this is full of angels of confirmation from the Kingdom of God  AB07129

Verily the angels of inspiration cast upon thee the spirit of utterance and teach thee the most wondrous meanings and exposition and the reality of clear explanation.  AB09719

And conceive not of anything imaginary, for Israfil is an angel who, by what God sendeth down, bloweth the spirit of death and life, and none hath aught save by God's leave.  BB00506

the angels longed to minister, in some special way, to him and they asked that they might come and do this, and consent was given. So, these ministering angels came down to earth   ABU1282

This is a prayer to the crimson light whose bearer was Israfil, peace be upon him... Bless, O God, the bearer of Thy crimson light, Israfil, peace be upon him, morning and evening.   BB00227

In the garden of his Lord, the Ever-Forgiving, with nightingale notes of joy and gladness, he warbleth such songs as delight and enrapture the Concourse on high in the Kingdom of Abha.   AB06969

all the mighty forces of the angels of heaven are arrayed in the highest horizon, waiting for a soul to charge forth in the arena of the Kingdom so that all may render victory and assistance  AB04261

Verily, he who adorneth himself with the ornament of trustworthiness is remembered by the Concourse on High, and upon him do the denizens of the realms of dominion and kingdom offer prayers.   BH08211

These angels are spiritual and merciful powers, and in one sense the angels are those sanctified souls who have disentangled themselves from the world of possession and are confirmed with the powers of the Kingdom.  AB02956

And as for what you asked about God's word (mighty and glorious is He) regarding the command for the angels to prostrate and Iblis's pride...And all the angels prostrated to Adam except Iblis, who alone transgressed  BB00568

These two are expressed in scripture by 'Israfil' The angel who gives life to men, and the Angel of Death who takes it away. The first is the power of composition or attraction, the other the power of decomposition. They are not angels.  ABU1809

The company of God's well-favoured angels came forth to meet him, and on that day a continual descending and ascending took place as one group from the Concourse on High came down to meet him and another group returned unto their retreats on high.   BH02009

Verily We commanded the angels to prostrate before Adam of the Gate, and the angels all prostrated in truth upon the ground of the heart together, save Iblis who refused and grew proud concerning Our command, and was thus in the Mother Book rejected from that Gate.  BB00002

Azrael, the Angel of death, is well-known in the Mohamadan world for his heartlessness in the face of misery and sorrow. Without any remorse or compunction he takes away the lives of men, women and children once they have filled the short span of life allotted to them by God.   ABU0782

In the realm of contingent being there exist the angels of the All-Merciful - they give glad tidings, provide guidance, and bestow eternal life. And there appear other souls, impotent, dumb, blind and deaf - they become the cause of death and prevent others from the path of salvation.   AB02319

and whatsoever God hath created in the Garden of Refuge of angels who glorify God by night and by day and never cease, and the angels who praise God by night and by day and never tire, and the angels who proclaim the unity of God and never falter, and the angels who magnify God and never wax proud, and whatsoever angel God hath created in the heavens but that He hath created in Paradise a celestial maiden.  BB00004

Sometimes is meant by angels, spiritual powers, and on other occasions you will find is meant by them, pure and holy souls. Where it is said, "I will give my angels charge over you to keep you in all your ways," is meant pure souls and true believers. In one station angel means those spiritual and divine powers give by God to the body of man which change mankind for good. These are the angels which confirm man.   ABU1238

Angels refer to human souls imbued with Divine attributes and Heavenly characteristics. They are the souls of whom the Lord has said: "We shall make men after Our likeness and image"; the purpose of the image or likeness is Divine attributes. For though outwardly of the earth, earthly, yet in reality they are of Heaven; although they are human, they are not accounted of the human - they are the Heavenly Angels, the radiant lamps, the Heavenly stars.  ABU1401

Yea, God, glorified be He, hath created a mighty angel, greater than all the angels, and God hath placed in his hand all the heavens and earth and whatsoever lieth between them. His name in the Hidden Tablet is "Ghadanfar Ghaghanaz." God hath created no angel greater than him in His knowledge, for the station of the five simple essences hath, in the Manifestation of God, been raised for that angel to the station of five thousand two hundred, and no higher station is possible.   BB00047

The hosts of the Company on high will defend them, and the angels of the Abha Paradise, in continuous succession, will come down to their aid. The meaning of 'angels' is the confirmations of God and His celestial powers. Likewise angels are blessed beings who have severed all ties with this nether world, have been released from the chains of self and the desires of the flesh, and anchored their hearts to the heavenly realms of the Lord. These are of the Kingdom, heavenly; these are of God, spiritual; these are revealers of God's abounding grace; these are dawning-points of His spiritual bestowals.  AB02652

Another interesting question which was touched upon was the belief in the guardian angels or as the Master said the "Divine Powers." Without the protection of these divine powers humanity cannot exist for one moment. They ward off all dangers and guard man from threatening evils. Man is like unto an innocent lamb and all these dangers and perils are like unto the ferocious wolves. "Imagine a little lamb surrounded by a hundred thousand wolves, threatening to tear it to pieces at every moment. Were it not for the eternal vigilance of the Divine Powers man could not live for one second." ABU3412

And now concerning thy question regarding the verse which the All-Merciful, exalted be His glory, hath revealed unto Muhammad, the Apostle of God, in the Qur'an: "He employeth the angels as messengers, with pairs of wings, two, three and four...": Know thou that among the angels there have ever been differences in station and degree, inasmuch as the stations of some excel the others. Some among them are engaged in the training of the world of humanity, whilst others have been entrusted with keeping record of the conduct of men, their deeds and their words. Four angels, who are widely renowned, have been appointed each to serve a specific task, as all have heard and are aware. Consider likewise those angels who abide in one among the realms of the True One: Some among them are utterly effaced before the effulgences of their Lord, immensely exalted be His glory. His presence is their sustenance, and drawing nigh unto Him their every action. Beholding Him and witnessing His unveiling are their sole occupation and their true delight. From the beginning that hath no beginning unto the end that hath no end, they have never diverted their gaze from the one true God. Another group of angels is known as the company of the most exalted Beings, and none is aware of them save God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Yet others are known as the Spirit, and the verse "therein descend the angels and the Spirit" testifieth thereto. Spirit, likewise, is known to have various degrees. For instance, consider the Holy Spirit mentioned in the Scriptures, which some have referred to as Gabriel. Consider likewise the Spirit of Trustworthiness, the Spirit of Faith, of Certitude, of Command, of Grandeur and of Power, of Beauty, of Glory, and the like. As to His saying "He employeth the angels as messengers", the intended meaning is that angels are intermediaries between God and His chosen Ones. They convey unto the latter the missives of their Lord through divine revelation, through inspiration, and through visions, and they instruct them of that which God hath commanded them. Through the aid of angels God hath revealed His Cause, rendered it victorious, completed His creation, and perfected His signs. And as to His saying "with pairs of wings, two, three and four...", the meaning, as already mentioned, is that angels occupy diverse stations. By virtue of the diversity of their station and degree they are the possessors of numerous wings, through which they ascend and descend. Some of them have as many wings as there are divine names, even as the Seal of the Prophets, upon meeting Gabriel on the night of the Mi'raj, recounted: "His are six hundred wings!" BH00174
