
When the cry was raised, all creation was shaken and smoke enveloped the face of heaven.  BH07095

This is a Day wherein the heaven hath been rolled up and the mountains have been scattered   BH04078

The light hath shone forth and the trumpet hath been blown and the mountains have been moved.  BH06221

It is as though the Resurrection hath come to pass and the mysteries of the Hour been revealed.   BH10416

The sun hath risen, the moon hath been cleft, and the stars have fallen, would that ye perceived   BH04084

He at Whose appearance the heaven was cleft asunder, the earth was rent, and its peoples lamented   BH05421

As for the revelations of John, those twenty-four will all be unveiled later - it is not possible now.   AB03635

This is that whereby the heavens are nearly rent asunder, and the earth is cleft, and the mountains crumble   BB00669

Hear ye the trumpet blast, drink ye from the cup whose mixture is of camphor, taste from the spring of Tasnim   AB04064

This is a Day wherein all who dwell on earth are seen to be thunderstruck and fallen prostrate by the divine trumpet-blast   BH07537

This is the Day wherein the earth hath quaked, the mountains have been crushed to powder, and the Balance hath been set up.  BH06575

This is the Day wherein the heaven hath been cleft asunder, and the earth hath been rent, and the skin hath crept with fear   BH06318

The Gate hath been opened, the Doorkeeper expelled, the veils burned away, and the Sun hath shone forth from behind the clouds  BH09057

This is the earthquake of that Hour which hath appeared and seized all save a few who have drawn nigh unto the Divine Countenance.   BH07596

The All-Bountiful hath come, riding upon the clouds...and the Hour appeared with its signs, and the Resurrection with its mysteries.  BH04504

When He appeared the suns were eclipsed, the moons darkened, the fruits fell, and the earth trembled amongst the people of possibility.   BH02531

This is a Day wherein the Most Great Ocean hath surged, and the atoms have cried out: The Kingdom is God's, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful!   BH08914

Soon shall the heaven be cleft asunder and the Youth shall come upon the crimson Buraq, and the matter shall be determined by One mighty and powerful.  BH09824

through which the trumpet was sounded and the dwellers of the graves arose, and through which Beauty was made manifest and the mountains were set in motion   BH10595

this Revelation whereby the Trumpet hath been sounded and the mountains have passed away, and trembling hath seized all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH05764

The mountains have passed away and the Cry hath been raised, the Trumpet hath been sounded and the Herald hath called out, yet the people are in strange stupor.   BH05739

The ocean hath surged and the divine fragrance hath wafted, and the Day is come... The Cry hath been raised and the Hour hath appeared and the Trumpet hath been sounded   BH11103

When all these brutalities are committed, when governments and nations have had enough carnage, bloodshed, destruction, then the Balances of Divine Justice will be set up.   ABU0805

I entreat Thee by Thy Name through which the Hour hath struck, and the Resurrection came to pass, and fear and trembling seized all that are in heaven and all that are on earth   BH10578

By God! The Cry hath been raised, the mountains have passed away, the Balance hath been set up, the Trumpet hath been blown, and all who are in earth and heaven have swooned away   BH06142

He hath arisen to establish His Cause with a power whereby the Resurrection hath come to pass, the Hour hath struck, the Reality hath appeared and the Great Calamity hath occurred.   BH03844

Say: By God, the Truth! The trumpet hath been blown by My command, and the Bell rings out in remembrance of Me, and the Bugle sounds forth My Name, which encompasseth all created things.  BH11770

Through Him hath the Resurrection come to pass, and the pillars of all beings have quaked... Through Him have the Kingdom and the Dominion smiled, and every rejected idolater hath wailed   BH10315

That which caused the kingdoms of earth and heaven to tremble hath appeared, all things were shaken, the dwellers of earth and heaven lamented, and the faces of the doubters were transformed.   BH10854

On that day - the Day of Truth - the Spirit and the angels shall come in two ranks. And I, in truth, decree for the believers these two gardens, and decree for the idolaters the decree of the sun  BB00002

Verily We have ordained upon the earth its quaking, and none can turn back God's true command save that the earth cast forth its burdens. On that Day shall man witness what hath been on earth of its possessions.  BB00002

Say: By God! The sun hath been eclipsed and the moon darkened, and the Greatest Spectacle hath appeared, and the Lord of Destiny calleth out with His most exalted call, summoning all to His most sublime horizon.   BH01051

on a Day when the pillars of all created things were shaken, and the hearts of all beings were set ablaze, and every pregnant one cast her burden, and every nursing mother became heedless of the infant she was nursing  AB09016

The heaven hath come with its smoke, and the matter hath been decreed by God, the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting. The heaven hath been cleft asunder with clouds, and the Youth hath come upon the clouds, yet ye know Him not.  BH03515

on a Day when the pillars of all created things were shaken, and the hearts of all beings were set ablaze, and every pregnant one cast forth her burden, and every nursing mother became heedless of the child she was nursing  AB09016

The Hour hath come and the moon of reckoning hath been cleft, and trembling hath seized the polytheists. The palm trees have been uprooted and souls have been thunderstruck, and the houses lie desolate upon their trellises.   BH05295

He has brought about a resurrection and raised high the banner of protection, He has established the true Balance and extended the Straight Path, He has spread out the land of gathering and made manifest the assembling and dispersing  AB01123

The Hour hath come, and the Trumpet hath been sounded, and the Balance proclaimeth... This is the day wherein the Trump resoundeth and the Bell ringeth out and the Trumpet proclaimeth: 'The Kingdom is God's, the Possessor of this wondrous Day.'   BH09452

When that time comes, turn to the Holy Land from whence God's breath passes. When that time comes, approach Carmel (a mountain near Akka) even if crawling, then turn to the Holy Valley (the Syrian wilderness), the gathering place, the white spot.  AB08037

Then the earth was shaken and the pillars of existence trembled, and the heaven was cleft asunder, and the sun was folded up, and the stars were scattered, and the Hour arose, and the great calamity appeared, and thy Lord came with the angels rank on rank.   AB04926

The heavens have been cleft asunder, the earth hath been rent, and the mountains have crumbled, yet the people remain in heedlessness and schism. All things circle round the Prison, while the Concourse on High circle round the Throne at eventide and at dawn.  BH05816

These are the verses of God sent down in truth, and none remember them except those possessed of understanding... through Whose will the suns of names were eclipsed and the moon was cleft in the heaven of destiny and the mountains passed away as passing clouds   BH04430

By the life of God! The Hour hath come, and the Sure Truth hath appeared, and the Trump hath sounded, and the Trumpet hath been blown, and all who are in the heavens and on earth have swooned away, save those whom thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, hath willed.  BH04085

Thereupon the heavens were cleft asunder, and the earth was rent, and the mountains crumbled, and the Balance was set up, and all who were in the Bayan were gathered together. Then were the people of Paradise admitted therein, and the denizens of the Fire consigned to their abode.   BH10386

And on that Day, the faces of the polytheists shall be in veils of fire, hidden around the fire. God has ordained no food for them save from a boiling spring that neither nourishes nor avails them aught, and God has prepared for them a painful chastisement in justice upon the truth.  BB00002

This is the terror of resurrection and the horror of loss in this world and the next! This is the fear when every pregnant woman shall lay down her burden, the dread when every nursing mother shall forget her nursling, and the terror when thou shalt see mankind as in a drunken state  AB00708

Praise be to God Who hath made the Hour a proof for this Hour which, when it uttered the First Word, established the Most Exalted Balance, and when it stirred of itself and by itself, caused the dwellers of the graves to quake through the stirring of the breezes of the Lord of Names.  BH11761

The trumpet hath been blown, and the bugle hath sounded, and the earth hath quaked, and the sun hath been folded up, and the stars have been darkened, and the seas have boiled over, and the mountains have been scattered, and the heaven hath been cleft asunder, and brought forth manifest smoke  AB05406

The foundations of the Concourse on High were shaken when the Call was raised from the Supreme Horizon, and thou seest the people stunned by the thunderous blast that hath caused all the powers of the earth to tremble, and it shall be followed by another blast, even more grievous and terrible.  AB09057

Today is the day when the heaven was rolled up. Today is the day when the sun was folded up. Today is the day when the moon was cleft asunder. Today is the day when the stars were scattered. Today is the day when the mountains moved. Today is the day when the dead came forth from their graves.  ABU0366

the Resurrection hath come to pass, and the great catastrophe hath appeared, and the sun is darkened, and the heaven is cleft asunder, and the stars are scattered, and the mountains are swept away, and the Event hath befallen, and the first blast hath resounded, and the second blast hath followed it   AB05952

Truly the earth has drawn nigh, the mountains have been set in motion, the seas have boiled over, the stars have been scattered, the suns have been darkened, the Resurrection has come to pass, and thy Most Glorious Lord has come in the shadows of clouds with hosts that the heedless have not yet seen   AB02470

"And there appeared a great wonder in heaven, a woman clothed with the Sun, and the moon under her feet" means the Law of God which descended upon Mohammed, the Apostle of God. "Clothed with the Sun and the moon under her feet," refers to the two great kingdoms which are under the power of that brilliant Law.   AB01034

By the life of God, the Trumpet hath been sounded, and all who are in the heavens and on the earth have swooned away, save only certain letters of the face of thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. The Balance hath been set up and the Path laid down, and the Cry hath been raised in truth, and every atom hath spoken forth.   BH07890

Then He saith the Day of the Blast - and knowest thou what is the Blast? All that descendeth from that Tree is either in affirmation of truth or in negation of negation. The negation of negation is the blast of death, like thy saying There is no god, and the affirmation of affirmation is the blast of life, like thy saying but God.  BB00506

By God the Truth, verily the suns have been folded up, and the stars have been scattered, and the heaven has been cleft asunder, and the earth has been shaken with convulsions, and the mountains have been scattered as dust, and the palm trunks have been uprooted, and the seas have overflowed on the day when the earth shone with the light of its Lord  AB04180

Then know that the return of the Family of God has not occurred, and the Hour is coming, the Resurrection has arisen, Paradise has drawn near, Hell has been kindled, and the beasts have been gathered. I seek refuge with God from false judgment. All that is pure falsehood. By your life, all that will appear afterwards and is established with justice.   BB00412

The Inevitable has come to pass...The earthquakes have come and the tribes have wailed out of fear of God...The Deafening Blast has cried out...Has the Great Catastrophe been fulfilled?...Have the stars fallen?...mountains have been scattered...Paradise has been adorned with the roses of inner meanings, and Hell has been kindled with the fire of the wicked   BH02116

When Our Cause cometh, it shall come upon you suddenly with mighty truth. Verily this Day is the truth from your Lord. On that Day ye shall not possess even a particle of knowledge from the Book, cut off in truth by the truth. The Kingdom on that Day shall belong in truth to the All-Merciful, and ye shall not be able to utter a word, nay not even a whisper.  BB00002

Say: O people! Do ye hesitate concerning Him by Whom the heaven was cleft asunder, the moon was split, and the Caller called out from the direction of a mighty throne? Have not the signs been sent down? Have not the tokens appeared? By God! The heaven of idle fancies hath been split and the All-Merciful hath come, surrounded by hosts of revelation and inspiration.  BH11749

wherein the Trump would be sounded and the call of the Bugle would be raised, the Bridge would be set up and the Balance would be established...wherein the Trump was sounded and all who are in Thy heaven and earth were thunderstruck, save those whom the hand of Thy power did rescue. And I testify that the Bridge hath been set up and the Balance hath been established  BH05468

When the Resurrection comes and the Hour arrives and the Calamity approaches and the earth quakes with its quaking and the heaven splits with its layers and the mountains are blown away and the trees uprooted and the seas boil and the beasts are gathered and the Balance is set up and the fires blaze and Paradise draws near and the Path is extended and the Signs speak   AB00814

Nevertheless, O Questioner! Hearken unto My voice which sayeth: "Open thine eyes that thou mayest behold the Most Great Beauty, through Whom speaketh the Lord of divine decree. By God! Through Him the 'Hour' hath appeared, and the 'Resurrection' hath come to pass, and the 'Moon' hath been cleft asunder and thou wouldst behold all in a 'continuing Regeneration' if thou be of them that possess insight."   BH03572

He it is Who gave the world the glad-tidings of the Day wherein the sun shall rise from its setting, and the mountains shall pass away with passing upon passing, and every soul shall be weighed with weighing upon weighing, wherein feet shall slip and mankind be confounded and the hearts of the possessors of understanding be thunderstruck and the limbs of all servants tremble, that His supreme sovereignty might be made manifest therein   BH01831

Lo! The gardens have been adorned! The Kawthar and Salsabil have gushed forth! The dove hath warbled! The birds have sung! The lions have roared! The fish have swum! The earth hath quaked! The mountains have moved! The seas have boiled! The heaven hath been cleft! The sun hath been folded up! The stars have been scattered! The Hour hath arrived! The great catastrophe hath appeared! Paradise hath been brought near! The Fire hath been kindled!  AB11807

Verily the earth is in convulsion and the heaven is being cleft asunder, and verily the seas are boiling over and the mountains are passing away, and verily the Balance is set up and the Path is laid out, and verily the fires are raging and the depths are plunging, and verily the stars are being scattered and the tempest continues, and the trunks of palm trees are being uprooted, and the Manifest Luminary with the light of certitude grows dark   AB01761

When the Trumpet was sounded and the Cry was raised, hearts were thrown into commotion and mountains were moved. After the exalted Word was raised between earth and heaven, whosoever turned towards it, his deeds were accepted, his reckoning complete, and he attained unto all that was manifested from God at the Hour of Resurrection and the appearance of the Day of Judgment. And whosoever turned away was deprived of all that was mentioned, his evil deeds increased and his good deeds diminished.  BH02206

The Hour hath come to pass, the Resurrection, the gathering and raising of the dead have appeared, the earth hath quaked, the seas have boiled, the heaven hath been cleft asunder, the sun hath been folded up, the stars have been scattered, the Balance hath been set up, the Bridge hath been extended, the fires have been kindled, Paradise hath been brought nigh, the palaces have been adorned, the gardens have been embellished, and the fountains have gushed forth, the trees have been beautified in this witnessed Day.  AB00718

the Light hath shone forth and become manifest, the Hidden hath appeared and been revealed, the heavens have been cleft asunder and rent, the earth hath been split and torn, the mountains have been scattered and dispersed, minds have been demolished and shattered, the Countenance hath radiated and gleamed, the waters have flowed and streamed, the verses have descended and been sent down, the beasts have been gathered and assembled, souls have been annihilated and obliterated, witnesses have been crushed and demolished  BH11741

And after three days and a half the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them. Three days and a half, as we explained earlier, is 1,260 years. These two Persons whose bodies were lying soulless-that is, the teachings and the religion that Muhammad had established and that 'Ali had promoted, whose reality had vanished, and of which only an empty form had remained-were again endowed with spirit; that is to say, those teachings were established anew.  AB00019

Praise be to God Who, through the manifestation of His Self, has caused the suns to be folded up, the stars to be darkened, the mountains to be scattered, the earth to quake, its burdens to be brought forth, the heaven to be cleft asunder, the waters to overflow, every nursing mother to forget what she nursed, every pregnant one to lay down her burden, souls to be raised up in drunkenness, the straight path to be extended, the pavilion to be raised up, the balance to be set up, the weights to appear, the trumpet to be blown, those in the graves to be raised  AB07847

"the path hath become smooth, the way straightened, the carpet of the Kingdom is spread, the Tabernacle hath been elevated upon the Hill of Might, the powers of heaven have been shaken, the corners of the earth have quaked, the sun has been darkened, the moon ceased to give light, the stars have fallen, the nations of the earth have lamented, and the Son of Man hath come upon the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, and He hath sent His angels with the sound of the great trumpet, and no one knows the meaning of these emblems save the wise and informed."  AB04220

The inevitable hath come to pass; witness how they have cast it behind their backs! This is the Day whereon every man will fly from himself, how much more from his kindred, could ye but perceive it. Say: By God! The blast hath been blown on the trumpet, and lo, mankind hath swooned away before us! The Herald hath cried out, and the Summoner raised His voice saying: "The Kingdom is God's, the Most Powerful, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting." This is the Day on which all eyes shall stare up with terror, the Day in which the hearts of them that dwell on earth shall tremble.   BH01880

Say: By God! The Hour itself now wails and smites its head by reason of the severity of the Cause. The Resurrection itself hath arisen bewildered before the Face, turning now to the right, now to the left, as though waiting for that which is hidden from sight. Say: By God! The Trumpet hath not borne this most great blast, and the cords of the Balance have snapped, and the tribes of Names have lamented in the kingdom of destiny, and the seas have dried up, and the lands have been submerged, and the heavens of idle fancies have been rolled up in the grasp of the power of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH02199

As to what thou hast written concerning the manifestation of the Cause and the completion of the proof, know thou that the proof hath been completed, the heavenly table hath descended, the earth hath been cleft asunder, the heaven hath been split, the mountains have been scattered, the trees have been uprooted, the seas have been frozen, the path hath been laid, the balance hath been set up, the trumpet hath been blown, the door hath been knocked, the hosts have been arrayed, the inevitable hour hath come to pass, the tribes have been shaken, the bugle hath sounded, and the voice of the trumpet hath been raised   BH01535

Then there shall be another blast, and lo! they shall rise and gaze around them: And the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord. And from the second blast, spiritual realities and celestial essences shall find life and shall be set in motion by the dawning of the Sun of Truth. This second blast is the appearance of the Ancient Beauty, Him Whom God shall make manifest. This is the day when the heavens were folded up. This is the day when the sun was wound up. This is the day when the moon was cleft asunder. This is the day when the stars were scattered. This is the day when the mountains were set in motion. This is the day when the dead came forth from their graves.  ABU0345

The Trumpet hath been blown, and lo, all eyes have stared up with terror, and the hearts of all who are in the heavens and on the earth have trembled, except them whom the breath of the verses of God hath quickened, and who have detached themselves from all things. This is the Day whereon the earth shall tell out her tidings. The workers of iniquity are her burdens, could ye but perceive it. The moon of idle fancy hath been cleft, and the heaven hath given out a palpable smoke. The earth hath been shaken, and the mountains have passed away, and the angels have appeared, rank on rank, before Us. Say: The heavens have been folded together, and the earth is held within His grasp, and the corrupt doers have been held by their forelock, and still they understand not.  BH01924
