'Abdu'l-Baha was asked to explain the development of life from its lowest to its highest forms. He explained that the development of existence may be represented by two arcs forming a circle. The one descending, the other ascending.  ABU2609

Divine philosophers believe that the human world's journey through the realm of existence is like two arcs, that is, in the arrangement of a circle which consists of two arcs. One arc they interpret as the arc of descent and the other arc they name the arc of ascent.   The Persians were caught for thirteen hundred years in the circle of existence on the arc of descent until they reached the utmost degree of fall and descent. AB03708

The world of existence has been likened unto a circle. It possesses two arcs: the arc of descent and the arc of ascent. In this circle, the circle of human existence occupies the middle station, or the meeting point of the extremes of the two arcs, which comprehends the last degree of the arc of descent and the first degree of the arc of ascent, or the darkest stage of the night of human ignorance and the dawn of human enlightenment.  ABU0214

"In the Koran there is a verse which speaks of the "lowest point of the low" as being the station of man. If we represent creation by a circle, at the top of it is God the creator, from His left descends the mineral creation, beginning first with the mineral kingdom, next below that is the vegetable kingdom, below that again is the animal kingdom, and at the bottom of the circle is man... But though this station is the "lowest of the low", it is also the dawning point of the new life, and the spiritual ascent to God!"  ABU1314

However, those who have thoroughly investigated the questions of divinity know of a certainty that the material worlds terminate at the end of the arc of descent; that the station of man lies at the end of the arc of descent and the beginning of the arc of ascent, which is opposite the Supreme Centre; and that from the beginning to the end of the arc of ascent the degrees of progress are of a spiritual nature. The arc of descent is called that of "bringing forth" and the arc of ascent that of "creating anew." The arc of descent ends in material realities and the arc of ascent in spiritual realities.  AB00036

Praise be to God Who created and brought forth a comprehensive, perfect, all-encompassing Point, possessing and containing all universal meanings in the world of existence, wherein all realities, effects and ordinances are integrated and included through simplicity and unity, calling to oneness in all affairs in the realm of being. Then it became detailed, multiplied, branched out and was explained, and revolved in the circle of letters, appearing in the most wonderful forms, becoming a magnet for its spirits, and manifesting with the most beautiful beauty in all ranks and stations. Then it returned and came back to its center in the praiseworthy station. Through its rotation, movement, inclination, beginning and return, the perfect words and exalted letters were realized, and the clear verses were arranged. Thus appeared the Preserved Tablet, the Inscribed Book, and the Outstretched Parchment. So glory be to its Originator, Creator, Former, Detailer and Interpreter, far above what the describers say. And glory be upon you and upon everyone firm and steadfast in God's Covenant and Testament, who is established and rooted in this praiseworthy Cause. AB04615

This is God's design for man - first descent through matter and then ascent through spirit, to teach him and develop him. A child must learn the alphabet before it can read, and the soul must gain self-consciousness through matter before it can know God.  ABU0299

Man is in the ultimate degree of materiality and the beginning of spirituality, that is, he is at the end of imperfection and the beginning of perfection. He is at the furthermost degree of darkness and the beginning of the light. That is why the station of man is said to be the end of night and the beginning of day, meaning that he encompasses all the degrees of imperfection and that he potentially possesses all the degrees of perfection.  AB00420

For human reality is the dividing line between light and shadow, the confluence of the two seas, and the ultimate point in the arc of descent. Therefore it hath the capacity for all stations: through education it acquireth virtues, and without education it remaineth in the lowest depths of deficiency. Every child may become either a source of illumination for the world or a cause of darkness throughout the horizons.  AB01170


"If we represent creation by a circle, at the top of it is God the creator, from His left descends the mineral creation, beginning first with the mineral kingdom, next below that is the vegetable kingdom, below that again is the animal kingdom, and at the bottom of the circle is man."  ABU1314
