After the ascent of Baha'u'llah I was all alone.   ABU3019

on the day of the Blessed Ascension, suddenly the situation in Akka changed  ABU1496

After the ascension of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones, holy souls forgot this world and saw themselves in the Abha Kingdom, and conducted themselves accordingly. Day and night they devoted their time to serving the Cause of God. They sought neither comfort, nor bounty, nor security, nor pleasure. Their joy is the melody of the birds that rises in the rose garden of Abha, and their desire is the manifestation of the light and flame of Sinai that sheds its radiance from the hidden realm of the Abha Kingdom. Their purpose is to exalt the Word of God and diffuse the divine fragrances, and their effort is to become utterly effaced at the Sacred Threshold. These souls are Baha'i, they are divine, they are luminous, they are of the All-Merciful. They cast no shadow, but are rather light from head to foot. AB04292

Rest and comfort and pleasure are forbidden to us after the ascension of the Blessed Beauty.  AB03440

After the ascension of the Beauteous Beloved, it is another tempest of trials that now rages.  AB02295

Be not troubled nor shaken, but be firm and steadfast in His Cause and love. This is what He foretold in His holy tablets and hidden scrolls beforehand, including what was revealed in the widely known and circulated Tablet of the Vision throughout the horizons of the world: that the ascension would be from the prison of Akka - and there is no altering the words of God. He said, and His word is the truth: "Whereupon all existence cried out saying: 'May all beings be a sacrifice for Thy tribulation, O King of earth and heaven! To what end hast Thou committed Thyself to be among these people in the city of Akka? Proceed to Thine other dominions, to realms which no eyes of the people of names have ever beheld.' Thereupon We smiled." Know ye this most sweet remembrance and what We intended by this most hidden and concealed mystery.  AB01543

By the face and hair of the Abha Beauty, due to the severity of tribulation and the supreme calamity and the ascension of the Abha Beauty and the assault of a hundred thousand afflictions upon the Cause of God, I have nothing but lamentation and moaning and supplication and weeping. Share and partake in these sorrows and pains with me, forget all affairs, and strive with utmost strength and power to serve God and unite the loved ones of God and the chosen ones of God. Soon you will observe how the power of the sea of the Covenant will cast these foams of violation upon the shore and quiet these futile uproars.  AB03419

In truth, in these recent years after the Most Great Calamity, bright day became darkest night for the loved ones, and tribulations and trials poured down like drops of the sea. This was pure bounty and bestowal, so that the spiritual servants would not remain at ease and rest for a moment after the ascension of the Manifestation of the All-Merciful, and would not draw a breath in comfort and joy, that they might become the embodiment of faithfulness and the essence of purity.  AB03570

Though the Ancient Beauty and Most Great Name has ascended from this world and raised His pavilion in the hidden realm   AB06866

Especially must the friends of God, after the Blessed Ascension, embrace with their souls every tribulation and calamity.  AB03133

O you whom I remember on this darkest night, the night of the Ascension, when sorrows have intensified upon 'Abdu'l-Baha.   AB06505

Yet when the Sun of Truth ascended to the heaven of sanctification and the Most Great Luminary rose to the Kingdom of uniqueness   AB04157

From that time on He lived in Bahjee till the day of departure dawned upon us and threw us into the depth of despair and sorrow.   ABU0246

And when the pillars of the world were shaken by the ascension of the Desired One - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - and the most great calamity raised its banner at the center of contingent being, and all existence burst into lamentation and crying, and the sea of tests surged with utmost turbulence and tumult, they remained supremely firm and steadfast in the Covenant, resolute in the Testament, and kept their distance from the people of violation.  AB01211

After the ascension of the Blessed Beauty, may dust be on the head of anyone who seeks a moment's rest or reclines on the couch of ease.  AB10192

As the end of the Ancient Beauty's earthly life was drawing near, His talks often often made reference to the importance of the Covenant. On that particular day, the Blessed Beauty issued stern warnings about Covenant-breaking. Midway through His address, He pointed towards the Greater Branch [His son, Mirza Muhammad-'Ali, the future archbreaker of His Covenant] and emphatically stated: 'Should one of our branches for a moment pass out from under the shadow of the Cause, he surely shall be brought to naught.'  These statements were delivered with such power that everyone present was overwhelmed with awe. The following day, while we were in the presence of Baha'u'llah, Mirza Diya'u'llah [one of His sons] came in to say: 'Aqa [the Master] wishes to know if You will permit us and some of the believers to visit Junaynih.' Baha'u'llah assked him who had sent the request, and upon hearing that it was the Greater Branch, in strong and clear tones he said: 'There is only one Master -- the Most Great Branch, He around Whom all names revolve.'  BHU0034

after His ascension to His mighty Kingdom, He did not deprive us of His exalted bestowals nor leave us bereft of His all-embracing bounties   AB06940

How can we take one moment's rest or seek one second's comfort on the couch of ease now that He has taken His flight to the Realm of the Unseen?  AB01129

The Ancient Beauty, before His ascension, one day spoke favorably of the friends in Nayriz, and at the time of His ascension was pleased with them.   AB01662

Now that Sun has ascended to the horizon of glory and that Lamp burns bright in the glass of the Concourse on High. The gates of witnessing are closed   AB05175

This went on until the day Baha'u'llah ascended. At that supreme affliction, that shattering calamity, Nabil sobbed and trembled and cried out to Heaven.  AB00002

But then came the Beloved's departure from this world... The Supreme Affliction was upon us, separation consumed us, the once bright days turned black as night  AB00002

When he set foot on the path yearning to quench his thirst from this soft-flowing river, he discovered that Thy most effulgent Beauty had ascended unto the realm on high.  AB05029

Since you were present during the supreme calamity and witnessed and observed the details and events, and beheld the anguish from separation from the Beloved of the horizons  AB04944

While before the Ascension of the Blessed Beauty when there was no ulterior motive, no one mentioned his name... But after the Ascension every wavering one shows him utmost sincerity   AB00880

suddenly the sun in the heaven of sanctity set at its zenith of radiance and brilliance, and intense darkness encompassed all six directions, and the pillars of contingent being were shaken   AB02245

After the ascension of the Abha Beauty, may My soul be a sacrifice to His loved ones, it is becoming of the faithful to rest not for a minute, but serve His threshold and strive to diffuse His fragrances.   AB04448

But when we recall the ascension of the Ancient Beauty and the Greatest Name, all of our other troubles will vanish, for deprivation from His sunlike face maketh separation from a shining lamp easier to bear   AB04836

A few days before his departure Baha'u'llah called me into his bedroom and commanded me to gather together all his writing and Tablets telling me that 'they shall belong to thee'. This command agitated me and I was very sad at heart, because I understood the days of his ascension are drawing nigh. My agitation was so keen that it was as though the spirit had taken its flight from the body. As he looked in my face he saw my condition and said:- 'Rest thou assured! Let not thy heart be troubled. I am with thee always. My confirmation shall always reach thee.' This promise which is more than a certainty has been the cause of my consolation. The Blessed Perfection is with me. What else do I need? After the ascension, Mohamad Ali stole away all the writings which were entrusted to me; likewise he did steal 25 blessed seals which belonged to Baha'u'llah, thinking that by so doing, his station will be exalted. What was the result? Utter humiliation and degradation. If one possesses all the Tablets and writings of Baha'u'llah and he is not with him, it will do him no good, but if he has not one word of Baha'u'llah, but he is with him, he has everything. Now the Blessed Beauty is with me. I do not need anything else.  ABU1332

Verily the Most Great Luminary that shone forth upon the horizons of the nations has set from the dayspring of the world and now gleams and radiates from His Most Glorious Horizon and His Supreme Kingdom upon all beings  AB01660

You had inquired about the Kitab-i-Aqdas - it is the same one that has been published. There are several supplementary ordinances in the Blessed Handwriting, but the Covenant-breakers stole 'Abdu'l-Baha's papers and that document was among them. A few days before the Ascension of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, He commanded 'Abdu'l-Baha to gather the papers in His blessed chamber and put them in a satchel. According to His blessed command, the papers were collected and placed in two satchels. He said "These papers are entrusted to you." When these words issued from His pure lips, the condition that arose is indescribable - all my limbs trembled and tears flowed like rain. It is better to be brief about this as it causes intense emotion.  In any case, I left those two satchels in the blessed room as I could not take them, until the Ascension occurred. When we wanted to wash the pure body, Mirza Muhammad 'Ali said "Perhaps the water will affect this. You give this to us and we will safeguard it until the washing is complete and the pure body is enshrouded in its burial shroud." In such a state where I had absolutely no consciousness or thought, and the possibility of anyone's treachery could not occur to me, I handed them over. He gave them to Mirza Badi'u'llah to place in his trunk and safeguard. But they seized everything along with all the trusts and blessed seals and rings, and did not give me a single page from the two satchels. They remain with them to this day. AB00878

Today is the day when we must prove and demonstrate, and make manifest and evident before the eyes of all the world, that the ascension and passing of the Sun of Truth did not cause any weakness or degradation in the Cause of God   AB05738

Although they had experienced during the days of His holy Manifestations that no diminution occurred in Their Cause after Their ascension, yet following the ascension of the Most Great Luminary the people of doubts and suspicions were again stirred into motion.   AB02007

It was during the closing days of the Blessed Beauty, when I was engaged in gathering together His papers which were strewn over the sofa in His writing chamber in Bahji, that He turned to Me and said: 'It is of no use to gather them, I must leave them and flee away.'   ABU3344

Until His ascension occurred, there was no cholera anywhere, but then it broke out in 'Akka. All the people, especially the Christians, fled. Mikhail Khammar said that the talisman of 'Akka was broken, for after the ascension of the Blessed Beauty, diseases again prevailed in 'Akka.  ABU1442

Things will come to pass wonderfully after my departure. God has brought about this situation that I should be on earth and at the same time not be in order that the beloved ones may not relax in their work abroad. There will be a slight silence after my departure, and after that there will be a great blaze.   ABU0463

After the death of the Blessed Perfection, one day, the chief Muhammadan priest of Akka came to our Lord and said he had seen the door of his room open and the Blessed Perfection came into his room. This was the Truth and Cause of the Blessed Perfection which manifested itself and it's continuous to him in this way.  ABU1136

Soon every disappointed and lost one will observe that after the ascension of the Blessed Beauty the divine lamp grew brighter and the Sun of Truth more resplendent, the waves of the Most Great Sea grew stronger and the melody from the divine gardens more widespread. The fame of God's Cause was raised throughout the horizons of the world and the might of divine power set the pillars of nations in motion.   AB01186

"Whenever I read in His Blessed supplications certain suggestions to His departure I felt sad. In one of His communes He says: 'O God! Through Thy Grace prepare for Me a lofty palace in Thy heaven, for My habitation built Thou a divine Abode! O Lord! This earth is very broad and wide indeed, but it has become too narrow for Me! I long the expanse of Thy Kingdom, I years after the limitless space of Thy Paradise.'"  ABU1006

Although the Greatest Name hath passed on to the Invisible Realm, although the Daystar of the Ancient Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of His Threshold, hath set on the horizon of this contingent world... Although the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name -- may my spirit be a sacrifice for the dust of His resting place -- has set from the horizon of contingent being, has departed from the dawning-place of this world, and has hastened to the realm of the invisible  AB03086

Today, when the searing fire of separation from the Beloved of all horizons has consumed the hearts and souls of His true lovers, and has uprooted the foundation of physical and spiritual life and the very heart and being of the lovers of the True Beauty, even if floods of tears should flow like the Oxus and Jaxartes rivers, the burning fire of the heart would not be lessened, nor would the pain and sorrows and remorse of conscience be stilled. This is from the severe effects of this Most Great Calamity.  AB10576

When the Sun of Truth was concealed behind the clouds of glory, and the Luminary of the horizons set from the dawning-place of manifestation to shine in the hidden realm, bestowing Its continuous bounties from the invisible kingdom upon the contingent world, the bats stirred and spread their wings and made their rounds. They imagined they could cut off the abundant grace of that Beautiful Countenance and extinguish the brilliant rays of the Sun of Truth, eliminate the enkindled fire and obliterate the praiseworthy light.  AB00122
