Be ye trustees among men, and withhold not from the poor what God in His bounty hath bestowed upon you. He verily shall recompense the charitable double what they have expended.  BH00144

How wonderful it would be if every person would take from his income what he needs for daily necessities and give away the rest.  ABU3646

How wonderful it would be for the affluent to spend [on the poor] with a happy disposition, not out of being compelled or to deceive.  ABU3646

Help them, for the poor are broken-hearted. If you sacrifice yourself for the rich, they think you do it because you are obliged to. But if you love the poor, they feel joy and are sincerely grateful. To help the poor is essential.   ABU2750

the wealthy, great ones and princes should contribute to the poor with perfect joy and contentment. This equality springs from human virtues   AB05171

In the Qur'an, spending of one's substance is specified as a characteristic of the people of faith, and it is revealed "they strive with their wealth and their lives."  AB06777

I love all. I exhort you to be kind to the poor and love them.   ABU2750


Those souls who are of the Kingdom eagerly wish to be of service to the poor, to sympathize with them, to show kindness to the miserable and to make their lives fruitful. Happy art thou that thou hast such a wish.   AB07527

Those distinguished souls who in the past year assisted the poor - I beseech from God's favors that their charity may become like a seed that produces seven ears, in each ear a hundred grains, and God multiplies for whom He wishes. AB02116

Their fourth duty is to meditate and consult for the helping of the poor and the weak and the protection of the sick.   ABU1822


Happy are you who are engaged in serving the poor.   ABU3471

and must be mindful of the poor in all circumstances  AB03864

I deal with the poor and visit the poor, not the rich.  ABU3153

Help and assist others in need. The poor are the trust of God.  ABU0321

Never talk to God to a man with an empty stomach. Feed him first.   ABU3623

Let us associate with the poor and be the companions of the needy   AB00323

Yesterday we went to visit poor children. They had a very humble place   ABU3000

you should sell it and spend its proceeds on the poor among the friends.  AB03630

Blessed is he who comforts the downtrodden, for he will be the friend of God.   ABU3107

to offer healing to the sick, to assist the poor, and to uplift the downtrodden  AB12421

Be nurses to the sick, treasurers for the poor, and supply heavenly food to the hungry.  ABU2673

You must show kindness to the orphans, give food to the hungry, clothe the naked and offer help to the poor  ABU3305

The poor are the trust of God. Although they appear destitute before men, they are glorified in the Kingdom.  ABU1843


educating children, nurturing orphans, helping the poor, spreading knowledge, and becoming a means of guiding people.   AB00368

distinction, honor and benevolence toward humanity lie in educating orphaned children and the children of the poor and weak  ABU1684

Furthermore, you must care for the weak, poor, helpless and orphans with utmost respect, and nurse any sick person in need.  AB04735

Beware lest ye withhold the surplus of your means from them that are near of kin unto you, and from the poor and the needy.   BH01365

When visiting the sick, speak of spiritual qualities and divine conduct and behavior without mentioning names or being explicit.   AB05146

Verily, I commune with every poor one, sit with every lowly one, turn toward every oppressed one, and behold every grief-stricken one.  BH04339

The alms-tax of associating with people of influence and authority is helping the poor in conducting their affairs or identifying resources.   AB02413

caring for the poor and weak and young and orphans and widows, and devising means of industry and livelihood and improvement of general conditions.  AB01545

For instance, a man may have the intention to succor the poor and assist the orphan, but be without the necessary means with which to carry it out.   ABU1112

Therefore their worldly affairs and livelihood have fallen into extreme difficulty, and in such cases the friends must certainly assist one another.   AB05184

The purpose is that all should strive with all their powers to ensure that each of the martyrs' survivors lives in the utmost comfort and happiness.   AB00296

when an offering was adorned with the glory of His acceptance and reported by Jinab-i-Amin, twice that amount was ordered to be paid out to the poor and the needy.   BH08235

Those souls who are of the Kingdom eagerly wish to be of service to the poor, to sympathize with them, to show kindness to the miserable and to make their lives fruitful.   AB07527

In this holy Cause the question of orphans hath the utmost importance. The greatest consideration must be shown towards orphans; they must be taught, trained and educated.  AB08817

The inhabitants of these parts know this and therefore whenever they are in difficulties or have had business reverses they come to us and we will never send them away unaided or deprived.  ABU3105

You must turn attention more earnestly to the betterment of the conditions of the poor. Do not be satisfied until each one with whom you are concerned is to you as a member of your family.   ABU2299

O concourse of rulers! Turn ye unto the poor. God hath created you and them from one thing. Make ye in your possessions a portion for them. This will profit you throughout ages and centuries.   BH04290

become a treasury of riches for the poor and a shelter and asylum for the fugitive, bring joy and radiance to the destitute, and aid the needy through the strengthening grace of the All-Merciful  AB12140

Today, at the Threshold of His Holiness Baha'u'llah, there is nobody more favored than thee, because thou art busy in the service of the orphans and in the education of the destitute, helpless children.  AB09116

I beseech God that you may ever be confirmed and assisted in serving the Sacred Threshold, helping the helpless, and caring for orphans. This is confirmation, this is divine bestowal, this is infinite glory.   AB02363

We should all visit the sick. When they are in sorrow and suffering, it is a real help and benefit to have a friend come...You must always have this thought of love and affection when you visit the ailing and afflicted.   ABU0790

Help them, for the poor are broken-hearted. If you sacrifice yourself for the rich, they think you do it because you are obliged to. But if you love the poor, they feel joy and are sincerely grateful. To help the poor is essential.   ABU2750

For example for the last two years and half I have not sent one dollar to my own family to buy clothes with, neither have I bought for them one yard of cloth but I bought just this past winter more than one hundred overcoats for the poor of Acca.   ABU2017

Services to the divine Threshold are manifold, but the greatest of all services and the most meritorious deed is the education of the children and of the daughters of the friends of God, and the instruction of the orphans and minors of His chosen ones.  AB07202

A group of very hungry poor people came to me and made a request. I directed them to a grocery store that had all kinds of food available. I told them, "Storm this shop, take whatever is there, eat it and take it away - I will take responsibility for it."   ABU2571

In treating the poor, the weak, the needy and the strangers, provide blessed healing and guide them to health and wellbeing... Give great importance to the matter of the poor - be a refuge and shelter to every poor one, and a protector and helper to every sick one.   AB02052

For fifty years the Blessed Beauty showed kindness to these people - if they saw a barefoot person from the window, He would order shoes bought for them; if they saw someone naked, He would give them clothes; if they saw someone poor, He would give them charity; if they saw someone weak, He would give them food.  ABU1263

There remained no poor, helpless or destitute person whom I did not support. I tell this by way of a story - there was a Christian named Nu'mih. This poor soul contracted smallpox and all his relatives and family abandoned him. I arranged for a Muslim woman to nurse him and I myself would visit him twice daily until he recovered.   ABU2470

show the greatest respect and honour to the poor, to the orphans and the disabled from every land, from every tribe and people. Show the utmost loving kindness to them and serve them as a true servant might. Treat them as thou wouldst the most honourable and dignified people in the land and place thyself at their disposal both by night and day.  AB00652

To care for the weak is essential and to assist the poor is among those things most necessary before the All-Forgiving, and shall ever be so. I swear by the Sun of sanctified glory that has risen from the horizon of the prison, that the cry of those who are oppressed among the loved ones of God and the poor among His friends has been and shall ever be effective.   BH01171

God is the sustainer and the protector of the orphans. How many are the children of the wealthy who went on to wander this world as lost souls, and how numerous are the orphans and children of the poor who have attained to lofty stations! Were it not for the protection and assistance of God, the orphans should always be trampled underfoot, and only the children of the wealthy should remain.  ABU3719

It was a good gathering. I saw that the poor were very glad. Truly, the hearts of the poor are very tender; they are easily affected.  The hearts of the poor are easily broken. Thus, whenever a person can bring gladness to them, it is the right thing to do. When I was in 'Akka, I constantly extended invitations to the poor. You are, however, unaware of the dire straits in which the poor ones of the East live.   ABU2447

"Should I also tend to the non-Baha'is?" I asked. "Yes, indeed," 'Abdu'l-Baha remarked, "We too are devoted to the poor. By all means, attend to all, particularly the needy."  ABU2343
The weak and the poor must be cared for.  ABU3764
 
