Regarding your third question about fortune-telling and geomancy - what people practice is purely imaginary and has absolutely no reality.   AB01473

what astrologers imagine today, that is, deriving future events from the positions of the stars, is definite fantasy. However, the existing principles of astronomy are established from other aspects, not the derivation of future events  AB00767

The words of the astrologers are for the most part doubtful and unreliable. But the whole of creation is interrelated like the different parts of the human body which have a complete affinity from the toenail to the hair on the head. Every part is perfectly connected with the other. Similarly, the whole of creation forms a chain composed, as it were, of many links connected with each other. It is therefore obvious that they all greatly influence each other and are part of organized, regular cycles. ABU3146

As for the question of beneficent and maleficent planets, ancient philosophers believed each of these planets possessed rational force and imagined they had spiritual influences. Thus arose the question of beneficent and maleficent influences. But all these beings are captive in the hand of power - the Sacred Essence is the Administrator and Ordainer of all, the Director.  AB02512

But the superstitions contained in astrological books are absolutely not to be trusted. And as for the matter of sneezing, it is pure imagination. This blessed Dispensation has removed such imaginings from our midst. Even mentioning it is not permitted.  AB03340

When thou didst inquire about divination (jafr), in truth this is not and hath never been the day for questions, even as the Primal Point, Who gave the people glad tidings of the Lord of the Beginning and the End, forbade all from asking questions in this Most Great Revelation.   BH00878

The deductions of astrologers - that is, deductions related to events of good and evil - have absolutely no authority. "The astrologers have lied, by the Lord of the Ka'bah!" However, technical deductions related to the movements of the stars, such as eclipses and the like, these have foundation and substance   AB01000

Those persons who prognosticate or use numbers all of them try to concentrate their thoughts and from the excess of thought and concentration they deduce certain meanings and perhaps it may come to pass. But this is not from these numbers and prognostications, neither from stars but he things it is from them while it is the reality of man which discovers them.  ABU0379

These rules of the stars are from the ancient astronomers. They used to take the sun coming out of the Zodiac and from that they would take out other things, but they had no true ambition... In ancient times the king had a man who used to make these calculations especially for him. If the Shah wanted to make a journey, this man might say, 'Don't go. If you do it will be dangerous.'  ABU0177

My meaning, however, is not that the deductions that the astrologers of old made from the motions of the stars and planets were true, for these were mere figments of the imagination which had their origin with the Egyptian, Assyrian and Chaldean priests, or rather stemmed from the idle conjectures of the Hindus and the superstitions of the Greeks, the Romans and the other star-worshipers.  AB00475

"Such suppositions regarding lucky or unlucky numbers are purely imaginary. The superstition concerning thirteen had its origin in the fact that Jesus Christ was surrounded by twelve disciples and that Judas Iscariot was the thirteenth member of their gathering. This is the source of the superstition, but it is purely imaginary. Although Judas was outwardly a disciple, in reality he was not. Twelve is the original number of significance and completion."  ABU0259


You had asked about numbers, whether they have any influence. Know that the influence lies not in the number but in what is numbered. For example, in the number twelve there is no influence, rather the influence lies in the apostles who are numbered thereby.  AB09885

