through its wafting breaths you may remain alive and enduring  BH11206

"The length of life has no importance - what matters is salvation. Praise be to God, he has attained the fruit of life in the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, for the purpose of physical life is spiritual life and eternal existence in the divine realm."  AB05528

One must not seek comfort for oneself nor rest until successful in performing good works and leaving behind an enduring trace in this transient world, so that one may attain eternal life in the divine Kingdom and achieve the most exalted station in the realm above.  AB04846

Some people among the companions of the right hand have discovered the manifest Light, have drunk from flowing waters, have quaffed from the fountain of certitude, have been guided to Thy straight path, have cast off restraint in their love for Thee among the sincere ones, and have been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love that quickeneth even old bones. The breeze of Thy tender mercy hath wafted over them, the pure wine of Thy bounty hath intoxicated them, and the attraction of Thy radiant beauty hath seized them.  AB00718

And the Blessed Cause and effects of the Most Great Manifestation are like the spirit of life in this mighty body and the most upright, greatest magnet. If the world and universe were not alive through this spirit, which is the qualities and perfections of the Beloved and the Most Merciful Lord, and were not freshened by these divine breaths, it would have the state of a dead body and the condition of a motionless corpse and carcass.   AB02581

Characterize thyself with the characteristics of God, and thou shalt know the spiritual life!   ABU3586

There are three paths through which man obtains spiritual happiness. The first path is the path of ordeals, trials and difficulties. His feet are torn with thorns and thistles, he goes through many pains and torments but finally he reaches to his destination. The second path is a pleasant path but the traveler makes slow progress. He advances surely but slowly. Step by step he comes nearer and nearer to the goal. It may take many years but the persevering, determined, cheerful traveler goes on and on. The third path is the path of faith. With one step the traveler finds himself in the Kingdom; even less than the twinkling of an eye the change is wrought. In one moment, he travels from the world of negation into the world of affirmation. We have seen this with our own eyes. A man who has been the collective center of all the vices, having become a Baha'i is changed completely in less than a second. He has become another man. He has entered a new world of light.  ABU1949

The heart is like a niche, and faith is like the lamp, and the pillars are like the glass globes. When these lights are kindled in this niche, it becomes a rose garden, and the lights of divine outpourings become manifest and radiant through these glass globes.  AB10583

and saw souls brought to life with the spirit of eternal life  AB06618

This happiness is eternal, and this life is life everlasting.   ABU3475

Man becomes human only through spiritual life, and the foundation of such a life is made up of heavenly perfections, divine attributes   ABU1611

Therefore My greatest happiness is to see you spiritually happy.   ABU3062

being baptized with the water of life, the fire of love and the spirit of attraction  AB09752

If he is not divine, if he is not god-like and celestial...no one can say he is a Baha'i.   ABU3277

And whoso hath not drunk, verily he is dead - the designation of life cannot be applied to him.  BH10401

O you who are intoxicated with the wine of reunion and bound by the chain of that musk-laden hair  AB06992

Serve God day and night and seek happiness from His name...thou mayest seek absolute spirituality  AB09732


All are bereft of the outpourings of the Holy Spirit and are heedless and deprived of eternal life.  ABU2574

I ask God to increase thy intoxication with this wine and gladden thy spirit with this great gospel.  AB09010

gave us eternal life when we were dead, and granted spiritual freshness and grace when we were withered  AB04727

The divine Kawthar in this day is the sweet savour of holiness, which bestoweth new life upon every soul.   AB08015

When a soul has in it the life of the spirit, then does it bring forth good fruit and become a Divine tree.  ABU0577


thy heart and soul are here, thy spirit is soaring, and thou art ever consumed with the fire of the love of God  AB08806

Blessed art thou for becoming intoxicated with the cup of tribulation and enkindled with the fire of the love of God  AB01644

God be praised that now you are on a Ship bearing you to immortal worlds. Day by day your signs will become clearer.  ABU2922

This is that Kawthar whose description was sent down aforetime in the divine Books, and this is that Choice Wine for which the divines and mystics waited. This water hath been called by all names - at times thou seest it as fire, in such wise that its roaring flame is heard; at other times thou beholdest it as light, kindled and shining. O people of Baha! God willing, through the bounty of the Lord of Names, ye shall attain unto it and drink therefrom. Whosoever attaineth unto it hath attained unto everlasting life. BH08629

The souls of the believers and the loved ones of God will attain, through the requisite of the spiritual world, everlasting vision and eternal reunion  AB01177

True life on this earth below consisteth in the remembrance of the Almighty, and in the realms above is attained only in the shelter of the All-Merciful.  AB10515

Earthly life is something that becomes contaminated with the impurities of this world, while the heavenly essence seeks the comfort of that eternal world.  AB05366

"for the purpose of physical life is spiritual life and eternal existence in the divine realm. That gift has been secured and that noble quality established."  AB05528

Thou hast truly understood the Ultimate Purpose, traversed the realm of contingent being, reached the world beyond space, and drunk from the cup of faith and certitude  AB06108

Therefore, if you seek joy, turn to the delightful realm above, and if you seek comfort of soul and peace of conscience, make your way to the most gracious threshold.   AB05783

There is no appointed length of life for man. Lengthen your life by living according to God's spiritual laws. Then you will live forever. This is the true longevity, the real life.   ABU3372

Strive with all your hearts that perchance ye may drink this heavenly Kawthar from the hand of divine favors, for it hath ever been and shall remain the quickener of hearts and the gladdener of souls. Whosoever attaineth unto it and drinketh a draught thereof is numbered among the people of eternity in the Kingdom of Names, and whosoever remaineth deprived thereof is accounted among the dead.  BH08301

Find the life of the heart and spiritual joy; seek mighty gladness and wondrous spirit and fragrance; find repose of soul and peace of conscience; become of the divine hosts and of the celestial angels.  AB08859

The reality of that world is the world of holiness and radiance, pure and sanctified above all imagination and thought. That immaculate world is so established and enduring that no tongue can describe it.  AB00282

Every soul who is spiritually born - through the assistance of the Holy-Spirit - that soul which receives the Breath of the Holy Spirit will have an upward journey and attain to a lofty station in the spiritual world.   ABU1477

Spiritual transformation comes through self-effacement: "Be lowly, that you may become noble. Be humble, that you may become as a rising star. Become effaced and evanescent, that you may find the ecstasy of the eternal wine."  AB09844

Attachment to the hem of the Spiritual Lord of Hosts and divine power will rescue man from the abyss of ignorance and raise him to the zenith of perfection, will call him to virtuous qualities and deliver him from base characteristics  AB09639

But if he possesses merciful susceptibilities, and if he is quickened with the divine spirit and if he realizes that he has attained to the eternal life - then these things will confer upon him a happiness which shall last throughout eternity.   ABU2616

When the candle of guidance is kindled within the glass of the heart, it dispels the darkness of error that stems from worldly limitations. The lights of sanctification and the rays of unity shine upon all parts and members, senses and faculties.   AB05296

They are destitute; ye enjoy intimate access to the inmost secrets. They are counted as among the dead; ye are quickened and set free by the water of life, have become manifestations of divine favours, daysprings of guidance and centres of bestowals.  AB06165

The human temple is like unto a niche, and the heart is like unto a glass globe, and the love of God is like unto the light within that glass. When that lamp is lit, the globe becomes illumined and the physical niche likewise becomes bright and radiant.  AB09527

"The ultimate truth is that physical life was transformed into divine life, metaphorical existence was changed into true existence. You will find those radiant faces in the divine rose garden, you will see those incomparable saplings by the divine stream."  AB04970

Therefore, it is evident that life (in its true sense) is the life of the spirit and that life is the love of God, divine inspiration, spiritual joys and glad tidings of God. Seek, O servant of God, this life until day and night you remain in limitless joy.  AB07834

That was not death, it was life. It was not annihilation, it was existence itself. It was not calamity, it was divine grace... This world will become a paradise, this world will be seen as heavenly, and the station of these souls will become apparent and known.  AB05469

You have lit a lamp in the heart whose radiance is heavenly; you have planted a tree in the garden of being whose fruit is divine; you have donned a garment whose adornment is eternal splendor; and you have drunk a cup whose intoxication is everlasting felicity.  AB09364


Now, life is of two kinds: that of the body and that of the spirit. The life of the body consists in material life, but the life of the spirit is a heavenly existence which consists in receiving the grace of the Divine Spirit and being quickened through the breath of the Holy Spirit.  AB00336

May thy call be the source of life and the melodies and tunes of thy harp and harpsichord cause all those regions to be moved. This becomes the servants of the Blessed Beauty that at all times they may sing a new song and that they may become the cause of radiant spirituality unto all and an instrument of joy to the servants of the one true Lord.   AB06822


The Prophets have been sent down in order to quicken the soul of man with the spirit of the Kingdom. This spirit is the cause of eternal life. This spirit is the cause everlasting felicity. This spirit is the cause of entrance into the Kingdom of God. This is the spirit which makes the worldly individual heavenly, and causes the darkened to become radiant.  ABU0179

They who are intoxicated with the divine chalice must needs experience ecstasy and joy, and they who receive glad-tidings of the gifts of the Kingdom must needs attain to delight. The cries and sighs of those intoxicated ones are essential, and the surge and tumult of the lovers are necessary - otherwise hard stone is better than a dead heart and a frozen existence.  AB09540

The physical life is sustained by respiration, eating of food and drinking of water; but the spiritual life consists of the mentioning of the True One, the Love of God, the explanation of the Knowledge of God and attraction to the Beauty of Abha. This is Everlasting Life. This is eternal Spirituality and this is Effulgence of His Highness the True One in the hearts of Humanity!  AB06341

Those souls who are not vivified and attracted by the Holy Spirit, are accounted among the dead, because their souls are deprived of the Breath of the Holy Spirit, and these persons after physical death are in a certain condition, having feeling and discernment in their environment, but in comparison with the pure souls who have been vivified by the Holy Spirit, they are as dead and deprived.  AB07139


