His favor is better than a hundred thousand children, and His good-pleasure sweeter than a hundred thousand worlds. If thou attain this station and achieve this blessing, thou art possessed of the Kingdom. This is the most great bounty and the supreme bestowal. BH05319

through which the ways of Thy guidance were made known, and the paths of Thy good pleasure were marked out  BH07721

Blessed are they who have attained unto God's good-pleasure and have held fast unto that which is in the Book.   BH07404

The spirit of all deeds is the good-pleasure of God, for if one should perform all good deeds, yet from them the fragrance of God's good-pleasure be not inhaled, those deeds will yield neither fruit nor effect nor result.   BH06554

God, through His Grace in the course of the life of every man opens a wide door of golden opportunity before his face. There are some people who take such a great privilege by the forelock and enter in the garden of the heavenly good-pleasure and ever pray and strive to protect this spiritual station; others shut their eyes and let the opportunity slip out of their hands.   ABU1428


To be approved of God alone should be one's aim.  AB11285

and the wish of every wise one is to attain the good-pleasure of the Most Glorious Beauty  AB02700

They have no desire except the good-pleasure of God and seek no movement except in the path of truth  AB04101

One word of His good-pleasure is better for every seeker than whatsoever is visible and hidden in the earth.  BH05854

Pray that we may so live as to win the good-pleasure of the Blessed Perfection. Then all the doors will be opened before our faces.   ABU2065

A Baha'i must conform all his great and small affairs in accord with the good-pleasure of the Blessed Perfection. This is the unerring criterion.   ABU1405

strive that thou mayest attain unto the most great gift, which is the good-pleasure of the One Friend, and become free and independent of all else.   BH08127

they are not thinking of pleasing God... whoever tried to please the people displeased God, and he who tried to please God, became assisted and confirmed.  ABU2021

For the good-pleasure of God and that of His servants are the greatest of divine favours, nay His good-pleasure resideth in our being pleased with His servants.  AB04675

That which remains lasting and enduring for man is the good-pleasure of the Lord God and conduct and behavior in accordance with the teachings of the Forgiving One   AB01134

The foundation of all deeds is the good-pleasure of God, and His good-pleasure is not attained except through acting according to what He hath commanded in His Book.   BH08419

Nothing has been or will be sweeter to the taste of lovers than the good-pleasure of God. Blessed is the servant who has attained, and the maidservant who has attained unto this exalted station.   BH08780

but the good-pleasure of the Lord is the most important object to be attained. If a man does not become confirmed and assisted with His good-pleasure and his name immortalized, it will benefit him not.   ABU3061

What befitteth the friend is submission to, and contentment with, the good-pleasure of the Friend. Therefore, be thou content with the good-pleasure of the Friend and with whatsoever proceedeth from Him.  BH11852

To attain the pleasure of God is the most important thing. Thank God thou art content with the will of God and art attached in heart to His divine wishes; and as thou art thus, all thy desires will be granted thee  AB04436

The attainment of the good pleasure of God is the greatest of all stations. Until one drinks from this clear fountain that gives life to those nigh unto Him, one cannot ascend to the heights divine reunion or proximity.  AB02702

The essence of the Cause hath been and shall ever be the good-pleasure of God. Should someone manifest all virtuous and praiseworthy deeds, yet God be not pleased with him, it hath yielded and shall yield no fruit whatsoever   BH03201

act in accordance with that wherefrom the sweet-smelling savor of His good-pleasure may be inhaled. If thou attainest unto this exalted and most high station, thou shalt be blessed with the word of His good-pleasure from the Lord of Names   BH08164

Forever supplicate and entreat at the court of Majesty and beg confirmation and assistance. Make ye an effort that you may win the good pleasure of Baha'o'llah. All the natural and supernatural advancements in the human world revolve around this one problem.   ABU1347

Blessed is the soul that hath drunk from the ocean of true understanding and hath turned toward the horizon of the appearance of the Lord of Religions. Such a one is among the companions of the Crimson Ark which hath been mentioned and recorded by the Most Exalted Pen in the Book of Names.  BH08124

Every soul should consider where the good-pleasure of God resides, what brings one nearer unto Him and whether it is through behaviour, deeds or circumstances that one can find acceptance in His sight. And then with all his heart and soul let him endeavour to achieve these desirable qualities.  AB02126

For in all deeds performed by anyone in his life, he desireth naught but the good pleasure of God, inasmuch as this is the uttermost end of all. But it is undoubtedly true that the good pleasure of God shall not be manifested save through the good pleasure of the One unto Whom God hath conferred His supreme testimony.  BB00001

All my petition, O my God, is that Thou ordain for me Thy good-pleasure, even were it less than nine times nine-tenths of a mustard seed at the moment when my spirit departeth. For should my spirit leave me while Thou art not pleased with me, though I should have acquired all good things, they would profit me not, or though I should have attained all glory, it would not exalt me.   BB00201
