Be ye informed that the Tablets contained in these four packets should not be lost   BH03020

Q: Will the Tablets and Utterances of Baha'u'llah be added to our Bible? A: No, they are a distinct Revelation of God and will form a Book larger than our Bible.  ABU3548

As regards the publication of the book of my addresses, you may publish it in any way you deem advisable.   AB02081

In those days, all Tablets were revealed and sent down in the blessed handwriting, or He would be engaged in writing   ABU2559

As for the blessed Tablet of the Temple which is in the handwriting of Zein, that is preserved, protected and ancient.  AB02834

The passage that was written in the letter of Andalib is correct. Do not change the passage, for there is wisdom in it.  AB12711

Regarding your question about the direction of prayer, there is a clear text in the Kitab-i-Aqdas which states: "When ye desire to perform your prayers turn your faces toward My Most Holy Court..." until where it states "and when the Sun of Truth and Utterance sets, the place which We have ordained for you." This sacred place has been explicitly designated by the Supreme Pen in a special tablet, and that tablet contains other laws as well, all by the Supreme Pen. That tablet was in the blessed case which was entrusted to Abdu'l-Baha before the Ascension. That case contained numerous papers, but the unfaithful ones took it away under some pretext and now it is with them. The point is that this place has been designated by the Supreme Pen and it is the point of circumambulation of the Concourse on High, and without it, turning toward any other direction during prayer is not permissible. AB01618

Three sacred Tablets have thus far been sent in his name and one more remains. Due to wisdom they were not all sent at once  BH02045

Regarding what is being sent, it is beloved that copies be made and, after comparison and verification, be given to their owners.   BH01288

From the year 69 until the ascension of Baha'u'llah in 1309 A.H., Salman would arrive once a year, bringing letters, leaving with the Tablets, faithfully delivering each one to him for whom it was intended. Every single year throughout that long period, he came on foot from Persia to Iraq, or to Adrianople, or to the Most Great Prison at 'Akka; came with the greatest eagerness and love, and then went back again.  AB00002


Whatever is given must be correct. Some copies of the Iqan that exist in this land have not all attained the standard of correctness.  BH09304

Oral accounts cannot be authoritative; perhaps the listener did not properly understand. Reliance must be placed on the written word.  AB04677

We commanded the servant present before Us, and he heard and wrote down what the Tongue of Grandeur spoke forth in his luminous station   BH07089

These three passages were on one yellow page in the blessed handwriting of the Ancient Beauty, may His Most Great Remembrance be glorified.   BH03623

Tablets have been revealed in these days and mention made of that person, but since no scribe was available to make copies, they were not sent   BH04009

Two packages of leaves that were sent, one by your brother and the other by Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Ibrahim, upon them be the Glory of God, arrived.   BH00462

The honored uncle, in the blessed days, served with utmost truthfulness and trustworthiness, and was the means for transmitting Tablets and letters.  AB02415

In response to the person mentioned, a sublime Tablet was revealed and sent...Additionally, a brief Tablet was written to Kalim - review it and send it  BH09573

Some receive answers that are outwardly revealed and sent, while the answers to others are recorded in God's Book and inscribed by the Pen of His bounty.   BH07363

We did indeed change the Book of Joseph before, and We sent down the Book of Justice thereafter, and verily therein are clear verses for people who believe  BB00414

any account without documentation should not be trusted, for even if true it still causes confusion. Only the sacred texts should be followed, nothing else.   AB00624

Divine verses have rained down like copious rain upon that land and its people, such that in every year revealed verses have been sent to that region and other regions   BH04866

In a Tablet from the Bab to Yahya and written in Yahya's own handwriting, he is directed by the Bab to ascertain God's intention by asking Siyyid Husayn, the amanuensis.   ABU2573

It is not permissible to combine the writings of this servant with the Holy and Blessed Tablets in one book. The divine Tablets cannot be combined with any other writings.  AB04692

We gathered them from the Books, Scriptures and Tablets and compiled them in one Tablet that all might attain unto God's special favors and be freed and delivered from all else.   BH01195

A few days before his departure Baha'u'llah called me into his bedroom and commanded me to gather together all his writing and Tablets telling me that 'they shall belong to thee'.   ABU1332

You too should certainly collect there as many correct, error-free Sacred Writings as possible, having them written in the most beautiful calligraphy to be sent to the London library.   AB11825

This Tablet was written during childhood (in Adrianople). At certain times, some expressions have been mentioned according to the disposition of some. The true intention must be observed  AB11009

The honored Mirza Mihdi hath been specially favored with God's all-embracing mercy. He hath, at no time, been careless in recording the words of God, nor hath he neglected their dispatch.  BH11868

The Tablets that belonged to the King of Martyrs and have come into the possession of the friends from strangers - preserve and protect these Tablets with the utmost reverence and honor.   AB04500

"For the present it is better to keep all the documents in the safety deposit vault in New York. Then later you may put all of them in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. Hang them on the walls, not in a safe."   ABU0768

"Baha'o'llah dictated the Book of Ighan to me 1275 A.H. (1858-1859 A.D.) in less than twenty-four hours." "Sometimes Baha'o'llah the Blessed Perfection dictated simultaneously to two or three scribes."  ABU1574



When in America I repeatedly said that no one must believe one word said by another regarding any commands, teachings or statements made by me unless they can produce the same in writing over my signature.   ABU3434

This is not a narrative that its narrator could be denied, nor is it in the handwriting of a scribe that could give rise to doubts and result in lack of confidence. Rather, it is by the pen of the Most High.  AB02695

Any one quoting me must have authority written either with my own hand, or Tablets signed with my seal. Otherwise these statements do not belong to me. Every instruction, every teaching that I desire to spread I will write with my own hand. You must know this generally. Never accept any statement without my writing which is signed and sealed -- any statement.   ABU1622


Some Tablets in the script of revelation were sent from this servant present before the Throne, as there was no time for signing. Several unsigned Tablets were sent - give these to whomever they deem appropriate.   BH05653

As commanded, this Tablet was revealed from the heaven of the Divine Will and transcribed from the original revelation and dispatched, along with Tablets numbering the Greatest Name which thou hadst previously requested   BH03868

What they have written regarding the printing of the book is correct and adorned with the ornament of truth. These matters depend upon time, place, occasion and requirements. In all things they must be mindful of wisdom.   BH05966

The leaf you sent was presented at the Most Holy Court, however on its first page "tasaluka ila maqam la tara" was seen while in the original manuscript it was "tawasuluka." Exercise utmost care in correcting the treatise.  BH00292

Although those books and tablets were jeweled pages and a great treasure, yet the original tablets are preserved and recorded in the divine Kingdom of Abha. This was but a reflection of that Preserved Tablet and that unfurled scroll.  AB04027

Now a letter from this servant along with six holy and exalted Tablets has been sent. If there is opportunity, may your eminence observe them and make copies, otherwise if there is mail service, send them, as they must reach him quickly.   BH06910

The Covenant-breakers produced a tablet, which they attributed it to the Ancient Beauty. Therein it was clearly stated that the numerical value of Kull u Shay (all things = 36 indicated the time limit when the Cause of Baha'u'llah would, God forbid, be disbanded or dispersed. Somehow the friends managed to obtain a copy of this tablet and sent it to the presence of 'Abdu'l-Baha, Who said there were numerous tablets corrupted like this one and that it was unimportant. "The House of Justice will put things right," He said. "It will gather together all the Sacred Writings, scrutinized them carefully, and pronounce its conclusive findings, and should any make contradictory remarks, he would be severely dealt with." Then He gave an explanation about how such a tablet never existed and was not from the Ancient Beauty and was not in His blessed idiom.  ABU2817

And regarding the Book of Iqan, its correct version was bestowed upon His Honor Ali-Qabel-Akbar, upon him be Baha - the existing copies must either be made to conform with it or be rewritten anew from it, this latter being preferable and more fitting.   BH10816

I have written these letters in the most beauteous form, and fashioned them in the Book, in a Book mighty and sublime, in the most graceful calligraphy, on the finest of paper, with the most excellent refinement, in the most wondrous and original manner.  BB00004

All divine Tablets have the status of one book, like the Qur'an - although it has multiple chapters, it is one book. Say: All are from God. All are the Preserved Tablet and the Unfurled Scroll. Therefore, mention of any holy soul in any one of them suffices.  AB01960

"If any one has a Tablet in his hand proving that I am not in favor of the progress of the Society let him bring it out, otherwise why should any one rely upon such hearsays? I have often remarked in America that only my Tablets are authority and nothing else."  ABU2057

And send thou likewise this Book unto the King of that region with golden ink that thou mayest be numbered among the helpers of that which is written. We have indeed conveyed thy Lord's decree in the Mother City and its environs in three Books of truthful verses.   BB00229

Regarding the blessed Book that was printed under the interference of the Center of Violation, compare it with the handwriting of His Holiness Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin, who attained the presence of his Lord. Whatever is in Zayn's handwriting is correct; rely upon that.   AB00321

they have intended to steal the Book of God - that is, the Persian Bayan and Ahsanul-Qisas... It is obligatory and incumbent upon all the friends of Truth that whosoever possesses them should preserve them and guard them from this rebellious and transgressing band.   BH04591

Regarding what was written about honoring the Sacred Writings, whatever is beloved should be written. One must act in such a way that the Tablets remain in their original delicacy. They should be placed on separate sheets, read, and then preserved in a special place.  BH06483

At the time of the ascension of Baha'u'llah, as we were otherwise occupied, I gave him two boxes containing divine Writings. He has concealed them. He has kept them so that after my passing he might bring them out and use them in accord with his personal inclination.   ABU0946

Concerning what thou didst write about the translation of the Most Holy Book made by one of the loved ones of God - although the intentions of the translator were good, yet since such matters in these days become a cause of differences, therefore it is not permissible.  AB10236

It is submitted to Samandar that previously a packet of sublime and inaccessible Holy Tablets was sent addressed to His Honor Ibn-i-Abhar. Due to wisdom, some Tablets that should have been sent in that same packet were delayed at that time. They are being sent this time.   BH06214

A few days before the Ascension of the Blessed Beauty, He commanded 'Abdu'l-Baha to gather the papers in His blessed chamber and put them in a bag. According to His blessed command, the papers were collected and placed in two bags. He said "These papers are entrusted to you."  AB00878

Another reason for the delay in submitting my petitions was that several months passed during which no verses were revealed from the heaven of divine favor, and this servant was greatly perplexed. When I observed that the Supreme Pen had paused, I did not dare to submit a petition.   BH01203

In those days when I would write the sacred Tablets, each Tablet would be one hundred or two hundred verses. From morning until six o'clock at night I would sit. Sometimes sleep would overcome me. I would nod off and continue writing. Then I would rest my head upon the book and sleep.  ABU2132

Regarding what was mentioned about the blessed verse, that the person in question said they had changed the verses and had written "yati'llah" instead of "ya'tihumu'llah" - it is very clear and evident that no change was intended, rather it was a reference to the meaning of the verse.   BH05707

"This servant wrote a letter to his eminence Ibn-i-Asdaq the Most Holy, upon them both be the Glory of God. His honor should make a copy of it, but in such a way that the original letter does not change, meaning it should not become blackened, and they should compare it with utmost care."   BH01331

That Tablet also contained other laws, all written by the Supreme Pen. This Tablet was in the blessed casket which was entrusted to Abdu'l-Baha before the ascension. That casket contained numerous papers, but the unfaithful ones took it away under some pretext and now it is in their possession.  AB06418

Whosoever quotes a statement from my tongue, ask from him the authority of the same, either in my handwriting or with my signature. If he has such an authority in his hand, all right; if he has no such authority, do not give any importance to tradition. Keep this criterion always before your view.  AB04820

Now that I am leaving you I counsel you not to accept any one coming to you with strange stories attributed to me without first demanding his signed credentials which must be in my handwriting...Therefore do not credit such statements. Accept nothing purporting to come from me without my signature.  ABU0047

The writings of the Point, exalted be His glory, the Bayan, were revealed in the manner of verses and in portions from the Book of God, exalted be His glory. Therefore, let these portions be bound into another volume, and if God willeth, all that hath been revealed in the Book shall be gathered for us.  BB00004

That which thou hadst written concerning the distribution of verses and their dispatch to the known place is understood. The Book of Laws was revealed in the language of verses in this land, and likewise some were revealed in Persian in the Land of Mystery. However, permission for their dissemination has not yet dawned.   BH00582

Whosoever claims that Abdul-Baha has given to him a tablet or sent a cablegram he must prove it (by showing it). Do not accept the saying of anyone on mere statement. He must bring forth the unmistakable and valid evidence, signed by my own written signature and not the signature on a cablegram which cannot be substantiated.  AB11274

Concerning what was written about printing, when presented before the Most Holy Court, it was stated that although We have commanded that the divine books be written in the finest script and most exquisite adornment, yet now it is necessary that they be printed, for without this the spread of the verses of God would be delayed.   BH00856

The photographs of the Bab's Tablet have arrived - may thy face be illumined! If thou canst obtain the original Tablet which is in His own handwriting, even if up to five hundred tumans must be paid, it would be most fitting and would constitute a mighty service to the Cause, for that blessed Tablet must not remain in the hands of the people.  AB08757

Regarding what was written about the omission of the word la from the revealed verse in the Tablet to Ismu'llah Ha, on whom be the Glory of God - often there is no opportunity for this servant to review again, hence in some Tablets it may be observed that one or two letters have been omitted. This blessed word is exactly as you have written it.  BH07008

A further submission is that several months ago, a sacred Tablet known as the Proclamation, as well as the Glad-Tidings, were dispatched according to the command of the Lord of the Unseen and the Seen. This Tablet contains laws that were scattered throughout the Most Holy Book and other Tablets, which the Blessed Being Himself gathered together.  BH00207

According to the explicit Text, this servant is the Interpreter of the Holy Writ, and whatsoever of the writings is not confirmed by Him cannot be trusted, save for that which is in the hand of Baha'u'llah Himself, and even that must be examined with the utmost care and attention to ensure that not an iota hath been added, subtracted or changed.  AB00005

Among the divine confirmations was that they investigated at the Baghdad consulate and discovered the truth, not opening their mouths to allegations but investigating and examining secretly with complete composure, privately comparing that letter with Abdu'l-Baha's handwriting, signature and seal. It became clear that it was a fabrication and forgery.   AB00596

A single seal bearing the Greatest Name, may His glory be exalted, which was promised has been sent. However, it is commanded that no one should make a copy of it or reproduce it on paper. This has been forbidden to the believers. After completion, it should be placed in a location and its cover sealed firmly with a seal and sent to the Most Holy Court.   BH01048

Therefore, the Bayan must be published in all parts and corners of the world after the publication of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, so that readers may know that those severe laws have been abrogated and canceled. Before the publication of the Kitab-i-Aqdas and its translation, and before its laws become well known, the publication of the Bayan is not permissible.   AB06330

The number of revealed Tablets sent is twenty-one. God willing, may all attain unto them. Tablets have been revealed to such an extent that it is impossible to enumerate them. From the Persian and Arabic, whatever is suitable for these days should be gathered and the divine words should be imparted according to the requirements of the station and the souls.   BH00963

Be it known that certain exalted Tablets have been revealed and sent. Make copies of all of them and afterward deliver them according to the requirements of the time and the capacity of the people. For these are days in which even the near angels are in distress and agitation, how much more so these people who are constantly undergoing strange transformations.  BH00656


The "Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah" ordained, in the days of His corporeal existence (i.e. during His lifetime), that the Holy Book of Laws and Ordinances (Kitab-i-Aqdas) should not be translated into other languages. It is in the Arabic language, the holy language of Prophecy, the mystic language of Revelation, written in the first instance for the peoples of the East.  ABU0200

Many pages are being sent. There is no time for details. Bandar Jaz is correct, but sometimes in the address of letters errors occur from the pen of the secretary, and 'Abdu'l-Baha never has time to read them a second time except for some letters which are very important. But since the friends do not accept them without seal and signature, therefore they are signed and sealed.  AB10214

Regarding what you wrote about not having received the Tablets revealed from the heaven of the Divine Will, and your request for copies of those exalted Tablets - a special volume hath been revealed from the Divine heaven of authority specifically for you, and the answer to the questions of the Afnan, upon them be the Most Glorious Glory of God, hath also been revealed therein.  BH01015

At a specific time your letters were presented before the Most Holy Court, and answers descended from the heaven of grace. However, due to the volume of correspondence and other matters, this servant has not found the opportunity to write to you, as each day travelers arrive bearing letters from many believers, and this servant is occupied day and night writing countless replies.  BH01039

These are the Tablets of the Kingdom written by the Supreme Pen in the Preserved Tablet. Such Tablets have not descended from the Realm of the Kingdom to the earthly world; nay they are preserved and protected in an invisible treasury. If at any time a soul shows such Tablets attributing them to God saying that it is the Ruby Tablet or the Fifth Tablet of Paradise, it is without truth.  AB09643

My proof hath been My manifestations of power that have encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth, and I have made verses the path to My knowledge as a grace from Us to all the worlds. And since My previous Manifestation designated verses as the proof of this most mighty, most holy and most glorious Manifestation, We have therefore caused verses to be sent down from the heaven of Will and have established them as proof for all who are in the heavens and on earth. Until this Manifestation, verses alone have been proof for all, for We had sent down this decree in all previous Books. Although in this Manifestation all signs of power, manifest proofs, wondrous verses, glorious manifestations and divine attributes have appeared - and all this as a grace from Us to all created things - yet henceforth the matter resteth in God's hands, that He may designate what shall be proof for future Manifestations. We shall soon send down His decree in the Tablets, for verily We have ever been the Ruler over all things. All matters are within Our mighty grasp; We do what We will and decree what We please. For in this Manifestation God, exalted be His mention, hath willed that many of the sincere seekers should speak in verses. Therefore We shall, by His command and His will, ordain what shall constitute proof of the next Manifestation, lest anyone who produceth words should exalt himself over God, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Almighty  BH11742

Although this servant is abashed for not having sent a reply to your distinguished letter, yet considering that several successive months passed without any word being revealed from the heaven of divine Will until these special days when certain Afnans - upon them be the glory of the All-Merciful - received and were sent some Tablets, therefore this servant, in utter bewilderment, did not impose upon your honor.  BH00373

Thereafter, one envelope containing sacred, glorious and blessed Tablets was sent last week, and now another envelope previously described in detail is being sent. At this moment while engaged in this writing, another envelope arrived containing fresh and flowing verses which, like a newly arrived flower, diffused such a fragrance of praise for the Beloved of all worlds that it gave strength to the heart and keenness to sight.   BH01055

I counsel thee by the Most Great Truth, and unto those who gaze upon this leaf: Write not with black ink a single letter of what God hath caused to flow from the Pen of the Bab. Write the Book with yellow water of red gold, for all that hath proceeded from the Bab, if ye are able. And if ye are unable, then write with white, or yellow, or green, or red ink. For God hath forbidden unto the believers black ink in this Most Great Gate.   BB00158


Regarding your request for the Hidden Words in Arabic and Persian - consider the manifold occupations of this servant. The land of Qaf is but one province; observe how many divine Tablets and letters from this servant reach that land yearly, all of which this servant must write. Likewise for the lands of Ta, Ya, Za, Sad, Kaf, Ta, the lands of Kha, India, and other regions too numerous to mention. Divine verses are sent to all these realms in like manner.   BH01205

This evanescent one requests of your honor to arrange, as far as possible, that since each of the friends who has been seized had writings in their possession, which has caused great regret, they should exercise the utmost effort in preserving the divine verses and heavenly words. They should designate a specific place for safeguarding the trust of God, exalted be His glory, that perchance they may not fall into the hands of the heedless and remain preserved.  BH03223

The letter that was sent in the company of Aqa Rafi' - since in those days tablets were not sent by post and no special courier was departing, the reply was consequently delayed. If the postal service is reliable, there shall never be any delay in replies. God willing, it shall be sent hereafter. Regarding the blessed verse in the Surih of the Kings that was mentioned, both versions are correct, though if the first remains as it is, it would be sweeter and better.   BH00415

Sometimes after my arrival a woman brought to me a big bundle containing all my Epistles written to Mrs Cole. She said: 'Mrs Cole has bequeathed these precious, spiritual letters to me. She considered these to be her greatest possessions. I have now thought to bring them to you. As I am not a Baha'i I would not like to keep them without your permission.' Then I told her, 'Because this was her last wish, I am sure you are the proper person to take care of these epistles.'   ABU1502

Furthermore, a matter whose declaration is among the most momentous and important of affairs is that this servant [Mirza Aqa Jan] heard a word that some of the friends in outlying regions have imagined that the letters sent in the name of this servant to them and other friends were - God forbid - jointly authored, meaning that what was written from the tongue of Truth, exalted be His glory, was from Truth, while the letter's address from the Point of "In the Name of our Lord" and the opening passages and prayers, up to a certain point, were directed to the Supreme Horizon and Most Exalted Summit, attaining the honor of being heard before the countenance of the Lord of Names, and in response to these exalted words there was revealed from the Source of verses - exalted be His glory and universal be His favors - that these passages were from this servant. I seek God's forgiveness from this great polytheism! How could one who is mute speak before the Kingdom of Utterance? Glory be to my Lord that I should be among the polytheists! Likewise, after the word "end", the passages that were recorded were all from the True One, exalted be His glory. I briefly submit that not a single word was from this servant - all were revealed from the Kingdom of God, my Lord and your Lord and the Lord of all who are in the heavens and earths. At all times, letters that were in this servant's name were, after permission, read in the Most Holy and Most Exalted Presence, and He would command "Take up the pen," and all responses from beginning to end would be revealed from the blessed mouth and recorded. And this was not specific to this servant; rather, repeatedly there was revealed from the Tongue of Grandeur, addressing those circling round and in the regions, that which was a clear book for all the worlds. Now we must all have mercy upon ourselves and the Cause of God, lest any word be uttered that might again lay the foundation of a new polytheism in the earth. May God protect us and you, O community of monotheists, from such thoughts and imaginings. I am naught but a recording servant before Him, and the Speaker is God, my Lord, the Utterer, the Revealer, the All-Knowing, the Ancient of Days.  BH00902

They were at a certain place with Aqa Mirza Javad-i-Khurasani and Mirza Aqa Jan. Aqa Mirza Javad, though hot-tempered, was a steadfast and devoted believer. At the direction of the Master, he transcribed a complete set of the writings of the Bab, mostly from the handwriting of Aqa Siyyid Husayn, and all were corrected and collated. The Master had obtained these with great difficulty and ultimately brought these writings to 'Akka, but it remains unknown what Mirza Muhammad-'Ali did with them. The loss of such Tablets causes harm to the Cause. After the Ascension, a committee was formed under the leadership of Mirza Muhammad-'Ali to collect and authenticate the Sacred Tablets, but most of their writings were altered. These people established a very poor foundation and defiled this pure and holy Cause. The harm from this does not affect me personally, but rather affects the Cause itself. Just as Azal stole the writings and seal of the Bab from the Blessed Beauty, these people did the same. They tampered with the writings of the Blessed Beauty and are determined to have me killed. Who would pay attention to him or follow him after such actions?  ABU1162

As it is, he has appropriated many papers and Tablets written by the Blessed Perfection. It is possible for these writings to be altered, as the meanings in Persian are greatly changed by a single dot here and there. Before His Ascension, the Blessed Perfection said to me, 'I have given You all the papers.' He put them in two satchels and sent them to Me. After His Ascension, Muhammad-'Ali said, 'You had better give me the two satchels to take care of.' He took them away and never returned them.  ABU0466

Now for two months the commentary on the Surih of Joseph hath been among the people, yet none hath properly copied even a single manuscript. Fie upon them! Again fie upon them! Some portions that were sent from Shiraz arrived in one day, mostly with errors and in some places altered. Inform Mulla Sadiq that since some verses have been altered without true knowledge, they hold no authority with me, though for the people even one correct verse sufficeth. The manuscripts of verses in my possession are authoritative.   BB00119

Regarding the laws of marriage and divorce which you had requested - that which was revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas was sent previously. Likewise, in these days a marriage sermon has been revealed from the heaven of unity... You should write and send a copy of what was previously sent, together with the sermon and the two verses, and write to the aforementioned Haji that he should guard them carefully so they do not spread among the adversaries, for the protection of those who are there. Its dissemination in that city is not permitted.  BH03116

Previously certain Tablets were revealed unto you wherein were recorded from the Pen of the Most High explanations of the revelation of certain Quranic verses and some stories of earlier times. Those Tablets, nay rather all that hath been sent unto you, should be dispatched to all lands, for they shall prove most beneficial. Some of the servants are unaware of what hath come to pass and are heedless of what shall come to pass, therefore such Tablets shall be profitable. Those to whom copies are sent should make copies themselves and send them abroad.  BH01593

Thou didst request permission to transcribe a book in thine own hand. It would be most agreeable to me if thou wouldst write two large-format books in clear handwriting, with the utmost perfection, upon very fine and delicate paper of moderate thickness - not thin - and with permanent ink that will not stick together from moisture in the future. Include therein the Tablets of Tarazat, Tajalliyat, Bisharat, Kalimat and Ishraqat. Prepare two copies, and let Jinab-i-'Andalib add delicate illumination, but illuminate only the margins, not the text itself, and prepare very fine bindings.  AB12228

As for the scribes and the differences between the manuscripts they prepared, this is what has shown forth from the horizon of elucidation in answer (to your question): O Zayn!  The verses of God were revealed in such manner that no one was able verify them at the time of their revelation and those that were revealed in Iraq and Adrianople were never reviewed.  The servant attending the throne [Khadimullah] is often able to look them over, according to his capacity.  Nevertheless, he has been absentminded in some places, and what the scribes copy is frequently contradictory.  The people's condition is such that they do not know if those things that contradict (their grammatical rules) were revealed by the holy court or were a result of the inattention of the scribes. It is known that what is revealed by the Truth is the truth, of which there is no doubt.  However, since Jinab-i Nazir, upon him be the glory of God, wanted to publish some of (our) books, we commanded the Greater Branch [Muhammad `Ali] and the servant in attendance [Khadimullah] to compare them and to report those things that contradicted (the grammatical rules of) the people since most humans have not and do not understand and are unaware of the process of revelation.  On account of this review, souls did not perish, although "oppressors only increase in loss."  BH01306

A letter has arrived from Abdul-Jalil Effendi concerning the treatise He Who Hath Attained the Most Exalted Companion in the Seat of Truth with an All-Powerful Sovereign by Abu'l-Fadl--may the spirit of those near to God be a sacrifice for him--namely The Brilliant Proofs. The intention is that this treatise should be newly published, but it does not match the original copy. You must exercise great care in this matter and obtain the original copy so that not a single word differs, that his blessed spirit may find joy and delight in the Abha Kingdom. You must verify in the Spiritual Assembly that this matches the original copy and then publish it.  AB08330

Whatever is revealed of divine verses, this servant mostly writes them in His presence, and often they are revealed in such a manner that no one is capable of writing them, for when once measured, one thousand two hundred verses were revealed in an hour. In such case, all are powerless to write, and this servant might possibly write eight hundred in an hour. For half an hour the hand cooperates, and in the other half it moves involuntarily. Therefore, sometimes they are revealed at a pace that allows this servant to manage the writing, and whatever is revealed is not reviewed by the Most Holy Gaze, though sometimes they are recited again in His presence.  BH11663

All of those Tablets were revealed by the lips of the Blessed Beauty. During the final blessed days [of Baha'u'llah], one of the friends asked [the same question] of Mirza Aqa Jan, but did not receive an affirmative response. For this reason, a number of the friends rose against him. Then the mother of Mirza Muhammad-'Ali came and said, Mirza Aqa Jan has become presumptuous before His Blessed Person and has said, 'I have labored more for You than His Holiness the Exalted One [the Bab], and You do not appreciate my labors.' At last, he wrote in his own hand to Iran, 'Whatever I have written in Tablets are utterances of the Blessed Beauty.' ABU3647

In these days the revealed Tablets are being read in Our presence, for many Tablets written both before and after were dispatched to various regions without being compared. Therefore, in these days they are repeatedly being read in Our presence, that what God hath intended and what the Tongue of Grandeur hath spoken may become manifest. Many verses and evidences have fallen into the hands of the idolaters, both in the Land of Ta [Tehran] and other lands. The people of God must make a mighty effort to preserve and protect the Tablets. In the Land of Ta, whatever was found in certain homes was seized and fell into the hands of the heedless. We have commanded all to preserve what hath flowed from the Supreme Pen.  BH00691

And verily has been detailed in that Book all that has issued from my hands from the year 1260 to [...] In the year 1262, after half its months had passed, there were four consummate books and ten perfect scrolls, each one of which would suffice as proof of servitude for all who dwell in the heavens and the earth.... All these comprise fourteen blessed copies existing in that Book, along with the Scroll of Mashhudiyyih at its end in fourteen books from the friends of the servants. All this is written in this Book. As for what left my hands and was stolen on the pilgrimage path, its details are mentioned in the Scroll of Ridawiyyih. Whoever finds any of these is obliged to preserve it.  BB00137

These were the matters about which His Holiness inquired, and they have been answered point by point. As for this servant's submission, it was previously submitted that this servant would point out certain copying errors, including in the epistle of the maternal uncle. In these days it happened that I was blessed to read it until I reached a passage where the scribe had written khasif for sakhif, though khasif also has meaning, but sakhif was what was revealed. Likewise in the passage that states His glory be exalted until where it mentions that Sun of the heaven of meaning being brought before the assembly of Pilate and Caiaphas, who were the greatest scholars of that age - but in that copy the word Caiaphas was omitted, making it appear as though Pilate was among the greatest scholars of that age, whereas Pilate was governor on behalf of Caesar and Caiaphas was among the scholars and chief judge that year, as has been revealed in detail from the heaven of divine will in other passages.  BH01104

At the time of emergence from between Gog and Magog, who were two polytheists, I sent a box containing blessed writings of the Exalted One and Aqa Siyyid Husayn, along with His seal, to that one who turned away from God [Yahya]. And in the early years of the new Cause, for four years We commanded him to copy from the writings of His Holiness, such that now writings of that apostate in the style of His Holiness exist. In these days he hath begun using those same writings and writing whatever Satan inspires in him, sealing it with His Holiness's seal and showing it to vile souls like himself. The deceit hath reached such a degree that it cannot be described.   BH00371
