

Up to the time I was 32 years I never slept in bed, preferring always a piece of mat and as cushion I chose one or two books. I went to sleep without changing my dress fearing that it will take me some time to dress in the morning.   ABU3164

Once when I lived in Baghdad I was invited to the home of a poor thorn-picker. In Baghdad the heat is even more intense that in Syria and it was a very hot day. But I walked twelve miles to the thorn-picker's hut. Then his wife made a little cake out of some meal for me, and burnt it in cooking it. Still that was the best reception I ever attended.   ABU2942

this imprisoned one never had a picture taken except in youth   AB05261

As soon as I checked His blessed pulse, I was shocked and reported, "Your pulse is very slow, but regular. The arteries seem to have the proper flow." 'Abdu'l-Baha remarked, "From the age of thirty, I have had a slow pulse. All others have a pulse rate of about 75 to 80 [per minute] and therefore greatly wonder about my pulse rate."   ABU3311


Your late uncle, Aqa Mirza Sadiq Qa'im-Maqam had a special love for the Most Holy Court. Even when he became Qa'im-Maqam of Azerbaijan and the Prime Minister had ordered him to depart with utmost haste, when the Blessed Beauty had returned from Karbila, he came into the holy presence saying "I desire to host a general feast and invite all members of the Nuri family to be in the blessed presence. Therefore, I will postpone tomorrow's departure by whatever means necessary and beg that you accept tomorrow's invitation." The Blessed Beauty said "Others have already extended invitations, therefore please excuse us." He pleaded to such a degree in the holy presence that They said the late Ja'far-Quli Khan, brother of the Prime Minister, should apologize to whoever had extended the prior invitation, and They proceeded to the home of the late Aqa Mirza Sadiq. That day all the Nuris were present except the Prime Minister himself - 'Abbas-Quli Khan with his brothers, the sons of Zaki Khan, and 'Abdu'llah Khan, and Khan Baba Khan, and Saham'ul-Mulk, and Ja'far-Quli Khan, and Nizam-Mulk, and Mirza Davud Khan and other Nuris were all present. That day I was a child and was present, and it passed in utmost joy. The point is that They showed the utmost kindness to the late Aqa Mirza Sadiq. AB01379

Is this wee bit of an animal your donkey? Your name has just brought to my mind a story of my childhood. At the time of our arrival in Bagdad I was a small lad, taking an active part in all the diversions and plays [illeg.] to that period of life. I remember one day, accompanied by a number of grown-up people we called on the Persian Consul who was considered an amateur sport and hunter. He cherished in his heart a great hate for Baha'u'llah and whenever His Name was mentioned his eyes became red with rage and wanted to pop out of their sockets. Nevertheless he showed us outward courtesy and hospitality [and] did not let his hate become manifest. He had given his rifle to be [polished] and while we were there they brought it in. Proudly he took it in his hand[s] and began to examine it. Looking at me with a malicious smile in his face he asked me: "Are you Tir Andaz? (sharp shooter) 'Yes' I answered. 'Can you shoot a bird while flying in the air?' 'Assuredly.' I said. 'This is very easy; but I can also shoot a man while walking on the earth.' And I looked at him significantly. He thought this was a warning and therefore was sorely afraid and stopped his outward persecution of the Blessed Perfection. ABU1838

Once I was feeling very sick and at the invitation of the governor and the judge of Acca we rode on horseback toward Tiberias. It was a dark light and it was long after 12 o'clock when we reached a plain of olive trees. My friends came down from their horses to perform ablution and pray, and as I was not feeling well and tired I stretched my body on the soft, dry sand under an olive tree. The rest of the party being also very fatigued slept waiting for the sunrise. When I got up in the morning I felt well entirely and everybody marveled at the mysterious cure. The dry sand was however the main cause that contributed to my health.  ABU1682

When I was young I never slept on the mattress. I slept on the floor. I would take a book and read it till late at night. When I was drowsy with sleep I would put the book under my head and cover my body with my Aba. How I slept soundly! I can never forget the true enjoyment of those nights. For the inside of the mattresses some people prefer straw better than anything else. They think it is healthier, others use cotton, silk or down.  ABU1682

Praise be to God, I have hastened from the West towards the East. Although no service was achieved in the West, I hope that perhaps in the East I may be able to draw a breath in servitude at the Threshold.  AB01480

"How I long to be far away from all the people for two months, somewhere where I have not to read letters, answer questions and always associate with men. Can you deliver me from all this work so that I may rest for awhile? I hope the work of no man will go beyond the limit of his time. However we must work day and night. I must have three secretaries to read all these Persian letters, making digest of their contents in order to dispatch the work."  ABU0764

Last night I reached home at midnight and had no opportunity to change clothes - I slept in my clothes.  AB07743

I dreamed a dream and behold, the Blessed Beauty (Baha'u'llah) came and said to Me: `Destroy this room.'   ABU3615

When I was very young I was travelling with Baha'u'llah and my family. We reached the city of Kermanshahan. Here we took quarters in a Caravanserai. Here there was a very poor boy who came to assist us in unloading, bringing to us water etc. At night I gave him a full dish of Polou and meat. I watched him eat. He was enjoying it very much. It was as though he had never eaten Polou. I conversed with him. Little by little he divulged to me his childlike dream: - "I never never had eaten such royal dinner in all my life and I fully believe (he sighed deeply) that if I could have such dinner for three successive nights I would become a King but you are going to leave tomorrow (anxiously) Are you not?" ABU2659

When I was in Baghdad, a thorn seller invited us. His dwelling was twenty miles from Baghdad. He had a hut made of reeds. He invited us there. At the time we had no horse, no donkey, no carriage; for all our possessions had been pillaged - even a donkey had not been left us, so we went on foot. The weather was very hot and I had no umbrella. We arrived there in the afternoon, he had a wife who was a believer. She took water and wheat and molded them together without yeast. Then she dug a hole in the ground ad made a fire in it. When the place became hot she took out the fire and put in the dough which she had made into balls, and covered them with the fire, later she took them out. They looked very black. She brought some dates also. The balls were only warm dough. We all ate them, and a few dates with our fingers. But I had never eaten such a delicious food, for it had been cooked with love. At night she prepared another in the same way. It was warm dough and dates, but we ate it with relish. Its taste is still in my mind. How completely that man and wife were filled with love.  ABU1792

As we drove up Broadway, glittering with its electric signs, He spoke of them smiling, apparently much amused. Then He told us that Baha'u'llah had loved light. "He could never get enough light. He taught us," the Master said, "to economize in everything else but to use light freely."  ABU3208

When Aga Abdor Rahim came to Bagdad he was a young man with heavy black moustaches. He has grown old in this Cause. He has seen with his own eyes the sowing of the seed, its growth and development in the world, and has served the Truth in many ways. When he arrived in Bagdad the Blessed Beauty was the target of many arrows of oppression, the Mullahs held many conferences and consulted together how best to extinguish this Divine Light. Notwithstanding these obstacles Baha'u'llah stood firm and accepted all the trials and hardships heaped upon him by the enemies. When they came into His Spiritual Presence they were awed with the Majesty of His Appearance and the Magnetism of His Countenance. They listened to His words with rapt attention and went away dumbfounded. I was a child then but the particulars of those meetings are engraved deep on the Tablet of my heart and mind.  ABU2263

"I was born in the year of the Bab 1260 A.H. (1844 A.D.), the night of May 23rd upon which the Bab declared His Mission."  ABU1574

"Mirza Hadi Javaheri, a very wealthy Persian Baha'i died in Baghdad leaving a son, three daughters and a great fortune. The son, Mirza Mussa was also a Baha'i, but the daughters were fanatical Muhammadans. A fierce fight started among these heirs because they mistrusted each other and could not come to a decision as to how to divide equally among themselves their father's immense fortune. Finally Mirza Mussa went to Baha'u'llah for help and assistance. Baha'u'llah said, 'This is not my work, go to my Greatest Branch (Abdu'l-Baha) - He will help you.' Though I was but twelve years old, I at once summoned a reliable real estate man and asked him to divide their estate into four equal parts. I also summoned a furniture dealer and asked him to divide the furniture into four equal parts. Then I summoned an expert jeweler who divided their jewelry into four equal parts. This plan pleased all the heirs. It took only from morning until noon for the three experts to finish their work of diving everything into four equal parts, and then everybody was happy.  After a day or so, Mirza Mussa came to me and told me confidentially that he has in his possession all his father's money in gold and nobody else knew anything about it. He wanted me to have all that money for my services. I asked him to show me where the money was. He took me to his room and produced a satchel full of gold. I locked the satchel, sealed it with wax and ordered him to call his sisters in. When they came, I explained to them that it was unnecessary to call an expert to divide the money, that it could easily be divided by themselves. Seeing the satchel sealed with wax, all of them were satisfied and each one received one-fourth of the money. Though at that time I did not have any money, and I had to get along in the cold without an overcoat because I could not afford to buy one, and my old turban needed to be changed, I did not wish to take any of their money." ABU1289

When I lived in Acca generally I kept busy six to ten Secretaries; often dictating important letters to three at the same time.   ABU3164

While in America I strove day and night to prepare a few, holy sanctified souls to take up the burden of the Cause after my departure.   ABU2754

in God's path, one of my cousins was betrothed to this servant from an early age by the blessed will. When we came to Baghdad, my honored uncle hastened to the Most Holy Court and, weeping, begged for the strengthening and confirmation of this connection. But this servant would not accept. Finally, by the decisive command of the Blessed Beauty I accepted. Nevertheless, I always wished to remain single until we came to Adrianople. In Adrianople, since the great aunt had connections to Yahya, solely to please him she strove until she gave that poor one to the son of the Prime Minister, Mirza 'Ali Khan. It is said that weeping, terrified and trembling she went, and not many days passed before she contracted tuberculosis and died of consumption.  AB01702

After the ascent of Baha'u'llah I was all alone. Enemies within and enemies without have attacked me and thousand difficulties surrounded me.   ABU3019

this servant is residing on the shores of the Sea of Galilee. The River Jordan has joined the Most Great Sea and the Son calls out in the sacred valley  AB06335

In these days I am determined to journey to America, as invitations are arriving continuously from gatherings of friends and strangers alike, and from scientific, political and general assemblies in America. Although this weak body has absolutely no strength to endure sea travel and there is danger of peril, especially in the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, yet hope lies in the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty, that He may make a feeble gnat into a soaring eagle, and a weak ant into a manifest serpent. Trusting in Him and relying upon His grace and favor, we shall unfurl the ship's sail and navigate in the season of storms to see what has been ordained.  AB01424

The Master apropos of revolver shooting said:- "When I was young they would light ten candles and at the range of a very long distance I would put out the lights one after another without missing one."  ABU3517

I remember that during my childhood we had a colored servant whose name was Mobarek. He was very big and strong. At this time I ['Abdu'l-Baha] was six or seven years. We were travelling and Mobarek was with us. On one of these stages he was stricken down with fever. In the Orient it is customary that when a person is feverish, he goes and sits in the sunshine. Mobarek had a big fur coat. He puts on this fur coat and lies down in the sun. His fever was so severe that he would shake and tremble like the leaf of a tree. There were several children amongst them myself. We would hide ourselves and watch Mobarek going toward the sunshine and lie down. His trembling was so violent that even the fur coat was trembling. Then quietly on tip-toe we would approach him and one by one sit on him. When my turn came and I sat on him he had such a violent fit that down I came. In short he took several quinine pills with no result. Finally he told to all the children you come early tomorrow morning and I will show you how I am going to treat myself.  Early morning we all went and saw Mobarek in the sunshine shaking as usual but with a big basket of prunes before him. He started to eat these prunes and at every moment he was shaking more and more. After this treatment, he became well and never had any more attacks of fever.  ABU1715

The other day the Secretary of the Consul called on me and spoke in a plaintive tone... I have now come to you to intercede for him before the commander  ABU1640

Due to the intensity of the ocean waves' motion, writing is difficult and arduous. This servant, with an ailing constitution and weak and frail body, in such a state is in intense agitation remembering and thinking of old friends, companions and confidants. Writing this letter is clear proof of the heart and soul's connection to the friends, showing how precious they are in this arena. In any case, 'Abdu'l-Baha undertakes this perilous journey with the hope that perhaps he may find some relief from intense shame and seek deliverance from embarrassment, for until now he has not drawn a single breath in servitude to the Sacred Threshold nor rendered any service to the servants of the Blessed Beauty. AB04587

In this journey divine wisdom was ordained. I hope it will bear fruit. Now, praise be to God, time is being spent in this country in utmost joy and fragrance  AB03012

This servant is drowned in an ocean of occupations and difficulties and papers and letters to all regions. He has not a minute's rest and never seeks comfort.  AB04732

We have an artist in New York. Her name is Miss Juliet Thompson. At first she said if I give one or two sittings she will paint my picture. I consented, but the one or two sittings became many. I wonder whether after all she got all the sittings she wanted" (here the Master laughed).  Then the daughter of the Consul asked whether she would be permitted to paint the Master.  "All right" the resigned answer came with a twinkling smile in his eyes. "How many hours do you require?"  "About three hours."  "This is too much; fifteen minutes will do?"  "Oh no! it is not enough."  "Will half an hour do?"  At last it was arranged for Monday that the Frauline may paint the Master.  "I hope you will not walk in Miss Thompson's footsteps." (He told her laughingly) ABU2928

Letters pour in from all directions like rain. Not even one in a hundred receives a reply, and that too brief. There is absolutely no time for detailed responses.  AB08012

I remember when I was a child in Nur, the late Mirza Khudavirdi would weep bitterly saying "I served this family for fifty years - was it right that at Mirza Yahya's instigation, Gul-Baba should beat me publicly, insult me and drive me away?" In any case, due to that person's evil deeds, Nur became darkness and Miyan-Rud was extinguished. In Darkila one day in the presence of the Blessed Beauty, He spoke in such a way and spread such proofs and arguments that when He arose, four mujtahids, two of whom - Mulla 'Abbas and Mulla Abu'l-Qasim - were sons-in-law of Mirza Muhammad-Taqi the mujtahid, ran to arrange His shoes. That is how it was then, and this is how it became afterwards. In any case, praise be to God that you have been guided. When I was there your father was called 'Amu 'Ali and I loved him very much, and likewise the late Mirza Khudavirdi. AB00432


Look at me! I do not listen to sickness. I do not listen to sleeplessness. I do not listen to fatigue. I do not listen to anything. I work and strive. I toil and labor.   ABU2388

I am writing the answer to your letter in the Atlantic Ocean...I am writing this letter to you now in this great ocean in a state of weakness and feebleness and seasickness  AB01791


This day, while pacing in the hallway [of the house of 'Abbud], the Master remarked: This room was the kitchen. The smoke bothered the Blessed Beauty, so I changed its location.   ABU1970

"When I was in prison many people came to see me. They crossed seas and deserts and yet remained in the city of the blind while others in far-distant lands attained the meeting."   ABU0873

I spent the first years of my childhood in Mazandran. At the time the Blessed Perfection was in Teheran. After a while he sent for us to go to him. I started with one of my uncles. On the way, one day, we reached at a village and thought to alight from our animals and refresh ourselves for a few hours. Having entered the hamlet we heard a great deal of noises, cries and confusion. We approached and inquired about all these lamentations. The village chief came forward and said: Your honors! We are all very poor farmers and for the last few years we have been oppressed and heavily taxed. Last night ten tax-gatherers entered our village with the hope of exacting from us a heavy fine. We told them we have nothing. They started to abuse and beat us. They forced themselves into our homes and threatened us on the penalty of death that we should prepare for them a royal dinner. We did not murmur. We cooked for every two persons a plate of rice and a roast chicken with its "four legs" shooting upward. When we placed the trays before them and they looked at the plates they arose in their wrath and flagged us mercilessly with their whips. We started to cry: 'Why do you beat us? What have we done?' They answered: 'How did you dare to bring for us these dishes of rice with only "four legs"? Every dish must have "eight legs", otherwise we will burn your homes and drive away your cattle.' We pleaded and supplicated for their mercy but they hardened their hearts against us and would listen to no excuses till we have roasted for them more chickens. Now this morning we have heard that the Shah is dead and knowing well the disturbed condition of the country, we have arrested these men, placed halters around their necks, have led them into the stable, tied them before the manger filled with fodder and have been beating them with their own whips to eat the straw and barley. I asked them to take me to the stable to see these miserable fellows. It was a very ludicrous and laughable sight! They started to cry to us to rescue them from their plight. I mediated before the chief but he wanted them to swear on the Koran that they would leave the vicinity of his village immediately which they were most glad to do, considering their experience. Whenever I think of their horror-stricken faces standing before that manger, surrounded by all the villagers who whipped them to eat straw, I cannot help laughing heartily. ABU1007

from morning I am rushing about the streets and bazaars, running here and there, exhausted from the intensity of fatigue. And when I return home I am occupied with writing and attending to affairs   AB06260

After a period of travelling through mountain and desert, and voyaging over ocean and sea, I have returned from the West to the East, and have entered into the ancient land of Joseph the Canaanite.  AB02139

Because I longed to see you, I have shortened my visit to the country, and here am I. At Pleasanton the air is very good, very pleasant, elevated and beautiful surroundings. The views are delightful.  ABU1877

"At this moment, as I sit alone and solitary on Mount Carmel at the shrine of His Holiness Khidr Abu'l-Abbas, detached from friend and stranger alike, I am occupied with thoughts and remembrance of you."   AB02571

At this moment, as I sit by the Sea of Galilee, detached from all save the Friend, and expectantly awaiting the universal outpourings of the All-Merciful, I have taken up my pen to write this brief letter.  AB09475


If they had let me, I would have travelled and taught the Cause from my early youth, but they confined me to the fortress town of Acca. However as soon as I received my freedom I started to travel and teach.  ABU0944

"When I was in Paris one of the believers brought me a soft cushion and urged me to put it under my head. I became accustomed to it and as there is none in this hotel my neck has pained me all these nights."   ABU2420

When in Europe and in America we had no other concern save the glorification of God and the propagation of the Principles of the Blessed Perfection. For this reason we lived in an atmosphere of joy and fragrance.  ABU1329

The trip from Teheran to Baghdad and the days spent in Baghdad in the presence of the Blessed Perfection are very vivid in my memory and shall never be forgotten. Those days were overflowing with joy and fragrance.  ABU2292

I lived there for two years with the utmost happiness. Up to that period I had not had time to read the Koran from first to last but then I had ample time and used to read this holy book with fervour and enthusiasm.  ABU1242

As for meeting twice, this was the wish of both you and me, but God willed that I should hasten to the West and there remember the friends and worship and petition that heavenly power may be your helper and supporter   AB07300

Although five years ago, due to severe hardships, my physical frame could not endure and various illnesses befell me, yet for four years 'Abdu'l-Baha wandered through mountains and deserts, lost in wilderness and seas   AB00944

I was in 'Akka for forty-five years. There was no one who wept that I did not weep with them, or whom I did not assist to the extent possible. There remained no poor, helpless or destitute person whom I did not support.   ABU2470

How often do I recall the days when I was a child and came to thee with love and devotion! Thou didst take me up in thy warm and affectionate embrace, and I delighted in the goodly fruits of the garden of thine abundance.   AB02620


'Abdu'l-Baha, through divine confirmations and heavenly assistance, has journeyed from the Most Great Prison - despite the opposition of the hateful ones - to the region of the Moon of Canaan in the utmost joy and delight.   AB01982

In this moment when the breath of the All-Merciful from the Abha Kingdom hath perfumed the nostrils of 'Abdu'l-Baha, I began to make mention of you. Consider in what a blessed moment I became occupied with your remembrance.  AB08092

From childhood We did not like limited space and atmosphere, until one day in a prayer revealed from the Supreme Pen I heard mention of infinite space. Immediately upon reading it I became so delighted it defies description.  ABU2315


And 'Abdu'l-Baha was alone and unique, without helper or assistant, while the turbaned ones were at the height of wickedness and the officials at the extreme of oppression and enmity, and the masses of fanatics were attacking.  AB01348

Once in Tehran we had every kind of comfort and means of living, but in one day everything was plundered. Such hardship befell us that one day my mother placed some flour in my hand instead of bread, and that is how I ate it.   ABU1852

"The mature wisdom requires this. I must go everywhere and raise the call of the Kingdom. As the days of my life are limited in this world, I must perfect my services; I must go everywhere and raise the summons of the Kingdom!"  ABU3430

All the companions of our trips in different parts of the world have departed and only Me and you are left! What dost thou say to this? And now where are we? In the Arabian Sahara, away from civilization and the haunts of men.   ABU1103

This morning all the trunks were sent to Abou-Senan. The Master was out in the street till the camels started on their way. In the evening he had many guests from the officers set of Acca. Part of the day he was out calling...   ABU1338

"One day, when Abdul-Baha was very tired, he said to several young Bahais who came to see him: 'My work here is done. The tree of my life has yielded its fruits...The members of my bodily constitution are well neigh disintegrated.'"  ABU2118

"Until now, due to the hardship of this lengthy journey, the body was extremely weak and frail and thus could not bear to write. Now that some recovery and relief from nervous illness has been obtained, this letter has been written."  AB03132

Before the Most Great Calamity, the only son of Abdu'l-Baha ascended to the Abha Kingdom. This servant did not become affected, saddened, or disturbed in any way, even though all the relatives were delighted by his sweetness and charm.  AB12001

I was a child, nine years old. In the thick of those calamities, when the enemy attacked, they stoned our house and it had filled up with stones. We had nobody to help us. There was only my mother, my sister, and Aqa Mirza Muhammad-Quli.   ABU1312

until now there has not been an opportunity to write a response, as I had no fixed location - sometimes I was in Tiberias, sometimes in Humayma, sometimes in 'Akka, and sometimes in Haifa, and great occupations prevented writing a reply.   AB02785

in three and a half years I went through deserts, mountains, valleys, cities and countries, raising my voice and crying out... I went to those regions and saw that I was moving alone among their temples, gatherings, assemblies and churches   ABU1259

While Munavvar Khanum, Carrie, Alice, and I were in the room of our Lord this morning, suddenly smiling at me, He said: "Do you think your mother will like My message to her?" "Her heart is so pure she must love it, Lord." My hand was in His.  ABU2372

Verily, since the early days of childhood I have devoted Myself to the Word of the Beauty of Baha'u'llah, and have forborne every difficulty and calamity, among these imprisonment for all My life, to lay the foundation of the oneness of mankind.   ABU0713

During this journey, due to constant engagement in teaching and spreading the divine fragrances and giving talks day and night, there was absolutely no time to write. Now I am headed to Alexandria and, God willing, will make up for what was missed.  AB07061

I have done all that could be done. I have served the Cause of Baha'u'llah to the utmost of My ability. I have labored night and day all the years of My life. To the extent of my powers I have served the Cause of God. Night and day I found no rest.   ABU1490

Although My birthplace is Tehran and for successive years I was a wanderer in Iraq and for a time exiled to the lands of Rumelia and for forty years imprisoned in 'Akka, despite this My homeland is Mazandaran, that is, Mianrud in the district of Nur.   AB05332


Even now I am present in a gathering where all kinds of conversation are taking place, and groups from outside and inside are speaking, each explaining their problems and pains. This servant is writing while also listening to their speech and answering questions.   AB01714

I have certain things that attract the confirmations of God. They are so wonderful and extraordinary that if I tell them, some people might not accept them as facts. These things especially belong to me. No one else knows or has ever given any importance to them...  ABU0271

Among these, this servant from early childhood, that is, from the time of nursing, drank the milk of servitude from the breast of that Most Exalted Luminary and thus developed and grew, therefore becoming honored to be embraced in the servitude of the Abha Beauty.   AB06258

If you knew in what sea 'Abdu'l-Baha is immersed, you would surely excuse him. If I were to devote all my time solely to reading letters, I certainly could not manage it. Furthermore, consider what news there is of other occupations and distractions and difficulties.  AB03679

Do you not see to what degree are the tribulations and calamities of 'Abdu'l-Baha? Despite this, praise be to God, like a mighty fortress in the face of the impact of all these upheavals, I remain firm in servitude to the Sacred Threshold without any weakness whatsoever.   AB03682

Due to bodily infirmity, the difficulties of traveling over seas and lands, lack of rest, striving and exerting day and night, delivering long addresses in different cities, and answering the varied, intricate questions of people, 'Abdu'l-Baha has not been able to answer it.  AB10291

Now that it is dawn and the rays of the grace of the Sun of Truth are shining from every direction, I remembered the Afnan of the Blessed Tree and set about writing this letter in my own hand, so that you may know that you are remembered and are ever present before my sight.   AB05044

From morning until now, despite this grief and anguish and sorrow, I have been occupied on one hand with writing, on another with arranging affairs and visiting the Holy Threshold, on another receiving American pilgrims, and on yet another responding to letters from the friends.   AB03056

"I am trying to amend for the past. I am devoting all my time to the Oriental friends. Before leaving for America I wrote to them that during my journey they must excuse me from any letter-writing, that after my return I will write to them as of old and now I am fulfilling my promise"  ABU2932


These days, I do not feel very well. I am now growing old. O, very old! All through my life I have carried on my back, gladly, the burdens of the believers; but now I ever anticipate hearing the good news of service actually accomplished by them. Save this, I have no other joy in the world.  ABU1966

In these days, such trials and tribulations have assailed 'Abdu'l-Baha and sorrows have so encompassed Him that no chance for breathing remains nor opportunity for speech. Night and day, in remembrance of the martyrs, He is so affected, longing, grieved and regretful that it defies description.   AB02669

There are certain urgent expenses at hand, including the living expenses of your companion and others, and various other endless expenditures, and I am perplexed as to what should be done. However, this amount is a debt upon me. God willing, it will be repaid in summer when it is building season  AB11227

The old man said: "The believers feel that there are two reasons for 'Abdu'l-Baha's weariness. First, he does not eat enough. Secondly, he works too hard." Then 'Abdu'l-Baha, very humbly, told him that he was mistaken. "Do you think", he said, "that this material food has any effect upon my body?"  ABU3096

Surely the divine friends will excuse me, for this broken pen must constantly correspond with East and West, write replies to important letters, give order and arrangement to affairs, shepherd the divine sheep in every spot, and in every boundary and frontier engage in spiritual attack and defense   AB00500

The day is done and the sun is setting, and the pen of 'Abdu'l-Baha has been bowing and prostrating since morning until now. Now it gives another reply and swears that if it were an Arabian steed or a Turkmen horse, it would have collapsed by now and would not have lifted its head from prostration.   AB04095

By chance, on this day my birth took place as well, but all must celebrate the day as the Anniversary of the Declaration of the Bab, and although my birth also happened to come on this day, they must not consider this of any import. Let the meaning of this day be the Declaration of the Bab, and not my birth.  ABU0907

When we were travelling from Bagdad toward Constantinople, one day, we thought [to] go ahead of the family, pitch the tent and prepare everything till Baha'u'llah and the rest of the party arrive. There were twenty three of us, all on horses... Experience teaches us many lessons that we are not apt to forget.   ABU0844

'Abdu'l-Baha cherisheth the wish of perfuming his nostrils with the fragrant dust of these luminous graves. This is my highest hope and my utmost aspiration. I beseech God to grant me this honour, and to enable me to follow their example. May my life be a sacrifice for them. May my heart be a sacrifice for them.  AB03413

I have no time; I can find no leisure. The problems and difficulties I have to attend to are endless, and letters are descending upon me like rain. This apart, Shaykh Faraju'llah, like Husayn the Kurd with his mace and club, is now here desiring the translation of the Sacred Writings, and the correction thereof.  AB04514

I am the Servant of the Blessed Perfection. In Bagdad I was a child. There and then He announced to me the Word and I believed in Him. As soon as He proclaimed to me the Word I threw myself at His Holy Feet and implored and supplicated Him that He may accept this one drop of my blood as a sacrifice in His Pathway.  ABU1148

This evening I shall relate to you the story of the sojourn of Baha'o'llah during the two years of his solitude on the mountain of Sarkalu...Here ends the account of the sojourn of Baha'o'llah in the cave of Sarkalu. This I have told in order that you may be informed. It has never before been given in such detail.  ABU0047

One dark night, as 'Abdu'l-Baha paced up and down the long front hallway of the reception room, relaxing and easing the stresses of a busy day, He asked me the following question. I was the only one in His presence at the time, and for a span of one hour had the sole honour of listening to His heavenly utterances.   ABU2344

the physical occupation and mental occupation and various questions and solving of great problems and protection and safeguarding of the friends in every spot and arrangement of affairs and attention to travelers and attending to the work of the friends in the Holy Land is to such a degree that it is beyond imagination  AB05362

For the sake of the Blessed Beauty, I had it repaired. But after leaving the barracks, the simple matter of bathing became increasingly difficult for the Blessed Beauty until I borrowed a sum of money and repaired the bath in the House of 'Abbud. By some means, I was able to repay the money I had borrowed within four months.  ABU2580

And once the Blessed Beauty summoned me and said "What arrangement will you make?" I said "I am ready to write replies." Then the Blessed Beauty wrote words to this effect: "So-and-so has undertaken and guaranteed to reply to petitions." That same night I wrote fifty replies, and from that time until now I reply to all letters.   ABU1922


However, 'Abdu'l-Baha was like a bird that had flown continuously for several days and nights without a moment's rest, and is utterly exhausted and weary to the degree that He cannot bear to write even one word. Nevertheless, moved by the surge of the love of God and the waves of affection for the loved ones of God, I took up writing  AB01275

Praise be to God, since the departure of the Blessed Perfection I have not rested five minutes. I did not sleep one night comfortably, neither did I seek tranquility for one day. I exercised my utmost power at all times to spread the laws of the religion of God and to promote the principles of universal righteousness and salvation...   ABU1234

It is very strange indeed how many particulars of my earliest childhood always stick to my memory. I remember when I was four or five years old there was a very poor old man in our street whose name was "Insouciant." When the season of poppies came around he filled his tray with them and brought around to sell them to the little boys.   ABU2634

This pearl rosary and a ruby ring originally belonged to Mirza Musa Jawahiri, the son of Mirza Hadi, and were both in that box. One day in Baghdad, Mirza Musa attained the presence of the Blessed Beauty and asked that I [i.e. `Abdu'l-Baha] be sent forth to divide the estate and heirloom of the late Mirza Hadi between him and his sister.  ABU3676

Cause-related work and the diffusion of the divine fragrances and the exaltation of the Word of God in all the East and West is necessary, and correspondence with East and West, from India and Iran and Turan and Europe and America is required, and attention to all the affairs of the friends and companions in these regions is obligatory   AB02736

By God the Truth, through it my face becomes radiant, my breast is dilated, and my spirit is refreshed. For pure and sincere servitude to it, free from all interpretation and allusion, is the crown of my head, the diadem of my brow, the light of my countenance, the joy of my heart, the tranquility of my soul, and the assurance of my mind.  AB11748

"I went to Baha'u'llah and asked permission to build one. The more I begged the stronger was his refusal. I said only with fifty pounds a little, comfortable bath can be build but he did not give his consent. Finally a month passed and I was quite worried. At last I went to an Arab friend of mine and borrowed from him Â£2[0] at 2 per cent."  ABU3338

For some period 'Abdu'l-Baha had been debarred from writing by speaking, inasmuch as he was continually engaged in delivering talks. Each morning he raised a cry, and each night he was deprived of rest. At dawn and eventide, in the sanctuaries of friend and stranger, he announced the glad-tidings of the appearance of the Kingdom of Mysteries.  AB08565

I came from a distant land. I have travelled twenty thousand miles until I came to you in Stuttgart. Forty years I was a prisoner. I was young when I was put into prison and my hair was white when the prison doors opened. After all these long years of the sufferings of prison life I willingly took upon myself all the hardships of a long journey.   ABU0292

"This Mirza Ahmad had become the 'recorder of my deeds.' No sooner I open my mouth then he takes out his note-book. If I make a joke, it will be spread all over Europe. If I smite on the face of Abul Gasem, all America will come to know about it. He writes in his note-book that on such and such day, and such and such an hour 'Abdu'l-Baha laughed."  ABU2785


I have no time to speak or sleep or write, and I pen these few words as though they were but a light refreshment, for I am occupied with work and heavily burdened. The night is an arena of divine address, the day immersed in replies. The morning brings tumult, the evening brings clamor, noon brings uproar, midnight brings murmuring, and dawn brings commotion.  AB09661

For four years I frequently had nervous fevers and my constitution was completely weakened. After four years it stopped for five or six months and my constitution gained some strength. Now due to severe distress, for the past month the nervous fever has returned and I have fever every night, but I have not gone to bed and am occupied with work day and night.   AB02350

Praise be to God, through the assistance and grace of the Divine Unity, I am spending my time in perfect health on Mount Carmel in the home of Aqa 'Abbas-Quli. Since communications were cut off, solely to inquire after the friends and get news of their wellbeing, Haji Rama?an is being sent here, as apart from him no one is able to travel this road in these days.  AB03985

When I returned home from a medical visit on the Carmel towards noon on 6 August 1910...The Master had me tell Him about the finger of the little girl, and whether the danger of blood poisoning was now gone...When I was leaving I saw the Master standing in the garden, where He was apparently engrossed in profound thought, looking at a fig-tree laden with fruit.   ABU1454

When I was a very little child in Teheran it became necessary and urgent that I should carry a message of great importance to the General of the army garrisoned about 30 miles away from the Capital. I was so small that it precluded of course my riding alone. Therefore Abdul Vahhab Bay, our servant placed me before himself on the saddle of the horse and started out.  ABU0968

'Abdu'l-Baha's utmost desire was that after the ascension of the Intended One (may my spirit be a sacrifice for the dust of His threshold), I would not have any photograph taken except on the day of sacrifice at the foot of the gallows or upon the gallows itself, in a state where the blessed crown would adorn my head - in such a state would the photograph be taken.   AB01551

For some time, due to the hardships of travel in the West and enduring trying conditions, the body was in danger, but now praise be to God, through the grace and favor of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, comfort and healing were immediately obtained. One night in Haifa I turned toward the Abha Kingdom and laid my head on the pillow.   AB03011

Have you ever heard of an invalid, whose health is in extreme upheaval, writing a letter to someone in the middle of the ocean during sleep? Yet 'Abdu'l-Baha does this while all the people on the ship are resting comfortably in their beds and sleeping peacefully, while this sick one, captivated by love for the friends, has been occupied with writing from sunrise until now  AB09383

The beauty of the scenery, the pleasantness of the place, the purity of the water, the charm of the horizon, the softness of the breeze, and the lushness of the mountain have combined to produce an extraordinary sight better than which cannot be imagined. However, 'Abdu'l-Baha is so busied with work and writing that He has no time to look [at the scenery]. But the climate is agreeable.  AB01763

But later on the affairs of the Cause became manifold, and I had to give practically all my time to their dispatch and management. Thus I could no longer enjoy these peaceful hours of spiritual reflection. How I would love to be able to arrange now so that I might go away alone and live in entire seclusion! For this reason I went to Tiberias, but it was not much of a seclusion, was it?  ABU1900

"Thou hadst asked Me to write to a number of persons, but 'Abdu'l-Baha was so weak of body that it was impossible to do so, except for an occasional answer to the most important letters. These letters have therefore not been written yet -- Do forgive Me. Now, praise be to God, the signs of health have to some degree begun to appear, and, God-willing, I will not fall short in the future."  AB03744

When we departed from New York for San Francisco, the railway journey took six days and nights. When we first set out, I had absolutely no strength or power. Weakness had completely overtaken my body. It was thought that I could not endure even one day of train travel, but as soon as I boarded the train my condition changed to such a degree that we reached San Francisco in the utmost joy.  ABU0142

Yesterday extensive talks were given in two great churches and at the general meeting of the friends, and private meetings were held with some individuals. Consider that despite this we were guests day and night. Last night I reached home at midnight and had no opportunity to change clothes - I slept in my clothes. Take note of this. Therefore do not complain about the scarcity of correspondence.  AB07743

Thou dost imagine that the occupations and distractions and troubles and tribulations of this servant had or have any parallel. No, by God! It is an ocean in turmoil. Consider Egypt - where there are but a few believers who, compared to other regions, are as a mere drop. Yet gather together the letters of this servant - how many volumes they make! And this is but one occupation among my occupations.   AB05625

No one can image how many different issues must be met and conflicting issues harmonized. I am now advanced in age. The reaction of this long journey has had terrible effect upon my weakened constitution and I cannot work as vigorously as I used to in my youth. When I read a letter my eyes grow weary; when I dictate a few Tablets my mind gets tired, when I walk a few thousand feet, I become exhausted.   ABU3326

I have heard the Most Great Branch, who in those days was a child of only eight years of age, recount one of His experiences as He ventured to leave the house in which He was then residing. "We had sought shelter, He told us, "in the house of My uncle, Mirza Isma'il...From that day onward, I was never again molested by any of the boys of the streets, nor did I hear any offensive word fall from their lips."   ABU1472

"Through the favors of the Desired One, it is hoped that this feeble frame, which in this lengthy journey is near to dissolution, may, before its last breath, fall upon the dust at the Sacred Threshold and find new life, that its eyes may be brightened and its heart and soul may put the rose garden and meadow to shame. Then it shall set out for the path of the Friend and hasten from this world to the next."  AB03789

But now, since the day news of discord arrived from Tehran, 'Abdu'l-Baha has been completely bereft of sleep. I remain awake all night, sleeping not at all. Various remedies have been tried, but none have yielded any fruit. And now, despite having not slept through the night, and though my body is utterly weary with fever and fatigue, I am still writing this detailed letter to you out of the intensity of my love.  AB09517

I recalled how as a child I was taken to see him at the prison where he was confined in Teheran. I went down a long flight of steps leading to the dungeon, which had no other outlet. It was absolutely dark. I peered through the gloom endeavoring to see some one, but could see nothing. Then I heard his blessed voice saying to the guard who had brought me, "Why did you bring that child? Take him back! Take him back!"   ABU1294

See how much work I have to do! It is more than a week since I received this letter from my sister, the Greatest Holy Leaf [Bahiyyih Khanum], and other members of the household, but I have not had the opportunity to open it yet. I was looking for another letter when I came upon this unopened letter. Then I heard that you were waiting here and I came downstairs to see you because I have no time to see you individually.   ABU1849

During the lifetime of Baha'u'llah my whole object revolved around the idea of how to become more spiritual, more attracted, more enkindled, how to live in accord with the good-pleasure of the Blessed Perfection, how to become assisted in a worthy service, how to attain to an abstracted state of supplication and prayerfulness. I often was in a meeting but I was so self-occupied that I did not hear their conversations.   ABU0772

Consider that 'Abdu'l-Baha, despite physical weakness and frailty of body, must attend to the settlement of all affairs, both great and small. Surely ten people could not manage it. Moreover, from the East and West of the world, like spring rain, letters pour down. These letters must be read and answers written, which is impossible. Furthermore, some letters are filled with questions. Consider then what a tumult is raised.  AB04677

Although in prison, I have experienced the utmost joy and fragrance, the heart was attracted, the spirit rejoiced, the eyes turned toward the Kingdom of God and the tongue mentioning the Name of the True One and displaying the utmost effort and endeavor in the promotion of the Word of God and the diffusion of the fragrances of God; yet, under all difficulties, there have been no shortcomings, nor hath there been any lack of enthusiasm.  AB00756

Since I had not seen the friends all day, I decided to come to the pilgrim house and visit you. The weather was stormy, and I had the lingering trace of an illness and, therefore, thought best not to leave the house so that my condition would not worsen...It was in accordance with this ordinance [of Baha'u'llah] that I sent Aqa Siyyid Asadu'llah to Istanbul to remedy (the bite of the rabid dog) so that it would serve as an example for the friends.  ABU1160

One day I was standing in the presence of the Blessed Beauty and with a fan was cooling Him. A bee was circling His Blessed Temple. No matter how I tried to disperse the bee with the fan, the bee would not leave. At the end, I brought the fan in that direction and said, Mutasarrif, leave us alone! It so happened that the fan struck the bee and tore him into two parts, so that he dropped dead. The Blessed Beauty said, You obliterated the Mutasarrif!  ABU0195

When I was a young man I wished to be entirely free, devoting my time to the service of the Cause. My first intention was not to marry. Four times the means of marriage were brought about by my family and every time I refused their whole proposition. Finally the Blessed Perfection commanded me in the most empathic manner that I must marry. For the sake of His sacred Command I accepted it, otherwise I longed for an untrammeled life of divine liberty.  ABU2669

I swear by the life of the friends that I have no time to speak or sleep or write, for I am occupied with work and heavily burdened. You know this, and from these brief words you can read much. Health is attained but rest is lost. The night is an arena of divine address, the day immersed in replies. The morning brings tumult, the evening brings clamor, noon brings uproar, midnight brings murmuring, and dawn brings commotion. Consider then what news there is!  AB09661

Though 'Abdu'l-Baha confesses to shortcoming and acknowledges weakness, despite this, in these vast regions, despite weakness and frailty, each day in some place and each night in cities and villages, in great gatherings and grand assemblies and supreme churches and temples, He raises the call. Neither does weakness stop Him from work, nor does He know fatigue, nor does He recognize weariness, that perchance He may draw one breath in service at the Holy Threshold.  AB01451

For three years this servant has wandered through mountains and deserts, and in all cities has been occupied with crying out "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" During this time he was often ill, but the intensity of weakness and strength of illness did not hold him back from crying, lamenting and shouting until he reached Alexandria. For some days he endured with difficulty. Now, despite his weak condition, he proceeds with utmost strength toward the Most Great Prison  AB01137

When I visited the dungeon in Teheran, as a child, in order to see BAHA'O'LLAH-when the door was opened there were some steps leading down into the place. They took me as far as midway. I peered through the darkness; I could not find anyone; it was exceedingly gloomy. Then I heard the blessed voice saying, "Take him away." When I heard his voice I tried to see the Blessesd Beauty, but because of the great darkness I could not. Then I was taken out; they seated me.  ABU0659

While the Master was in Teheran and the family was pillaged, for three days and nights they were left absolutely foodless, and with not a mat to lie on. In such a condition, in mid-winter, amid the cold and frost, they were banished. They had to leave Teheran. The Master was the age of "Mr. MacNutt" (little Howard). He did not have but one pair of stockings, which He was wearing, and that had a big hole in it, so that His foot was bitten by the frost; He feels it now.  ABU0514

Baha'u'llah at first refused to discuss the case but they implored so strongly that finally he delegated me to go and settle their case in one day. I went and after reconciling the various factions divided the property etc into two parts. When noon arrived I went out and returned after an hour or two. I observed that the inheritors have divided the two parts into three parts. I inquired the reason. They said that this third part is for you â€" your fee in other words.   ABU0424

Although due to the hardships of travel and countless tribulations and day and night effort and striving, and separation from the world-illumining Threshold, the body of 'Abdu'l-Baha became ill and strength dissipated such that upon arrival in Port Said physical ailments prevented movement, yet divine protection arrived and confirmations from the Abha Kingdom comforted the spirit. Therefore in these days the illness has abated and these weak fingers have again taken up writing.  AB01620

"I had a piece of mat and a long Persian fur-coat. It was my coat by day and my coverlet by night. When I covered myself under it an army of flees hiding in the ambuscades of fur attacked me and tried their best to defeat me but I defeated them by turning the coat and covering with myself with its other side. For one hour I slept; then the wily, indomitable flees found their way again to the inner side. Every night I had to [sic] this course of manoeuvring eight or ten times."   ABU0847

During the first year of our arrival in Bagdad one day Mirza Javad asked me to go out with him to an outlying district...We did not have anything on ourselves but the other man had some money and was grateful to us because we saved him. Addressing Mirza Javad he said:- "I am glad you did not kill them. The way you took your rifle in your hands I thought every moment you will shoot at them." [Here the Master had a hearty laugh and added:] "And all this time our rifle was empty."   ABU1050

At Bagdad I rode on horse back; at one time I had an idea that I would like to hunt. So on a certain occasion I joined a party of hunters and went with them to the chase. But when I saw them killing birds and animals, I thought this could not be right. Then it occurred to me that better than hunting for animals, to kill them, was hunting for souls of men to bring them to God. I then resolved that I would be a hunter of this sort. This was my first and last experience in the chase.   ABU2296

However, one day some compatriots came to the blessed house when the Most Pure Temple had gone out to visit respected persons. Therefore they were engaged in describing the qualities of the Center of the Covenant with the servants of the Threshold. Among them was a person who, although not a Baha'i, mentioned that "Yesterday one of the very fanatical Iranians had written me a letter reproaching and blaming me for why I go into the blessed presence of 'Abdu'l-Baha and have become enchanted by His favors."   ABU1207

In Tehran when I was a child of seven years old, I contracted tuberculosis. There was no hope of recovery. Later its wisdom became clear - that if I had not been ill I would have had to stay in Mazandaran, but because of this illness I stayed in Tehran during the imprisonment of the Blessed Beauty and for this reason traveled to Iraq in His company. When the time came, suddenly after all doctors had given up hope, health was obtained, even though all had said it was impossible for this illness to be cured.   ABU0678

In Paris one of the notable representatives of France invited me to attend an evening party and I went. We saw that they had prepared a big banquet with sweets and cakes of many kinds. There were well known musicians who played and sang. Pianists, violinists, cellists, flutes players and one young man and a young lady sang. Many noted people were present. I had thought they desired me to give an address but I found it was not so. I became extremely grieved that night. They played and sang but I was in agony.   ABU1579

Regarding Khalil Pasha who threatened and harassed extensively and sent a telegram every day - I finally got hold of his spiritual guide here and said to him: I have a confidential message for Khalil which until now I have found no confidant for. Now since you are his guide, I tell you and send this message through you. Tell him: You write about me as 'Abbas the Baha'i' or 'Abbas the Iranian' thinking this is an insult to me, whereas it is my greatest pride, for you count me among those whom I ardently desire to be a servant of.  ABU0739

One night we were invited to a feast. The guests were divided into twos and when the supper time came each company was served with a dish of rice and one chicken. It so happened that I was made the partner of Mirza Ahmad. As we sat around the table to each, my partner humorously remarked to get a wing from that friend, a piece of breast from a second, a leg from a third and so on. I did so, thinking that he will divide our chicken amongst the believers; instead of doing this, he ate both and everybody was most amused. He ate also my share.   ABU0372

With an excuse, he sent his servant out of the room and said [to Me], "I have a nephew and a daughter. My nephew is an entrenched enemy of mine. My daughter lives in Qamran in Yaman, in the midst of the tribes of Arabia. I have eighteen hundred Majidi coins which I want to bequeath her." I gave some excuse that I had no way of reaching the deserts of Arabia, but he said, "I implore You to accept this mission before my servant returns. Take this money as I have no means other than You." I took the money and that very night 'Abdu'llah Pasha passed away.  ABU0073

"This Mirza Ahmad had become the 'recorder of my deeds.' No sooner I open my mouth then he takes out his note-book. If I make a joke, it will be spread all over Europe. If I smite on the face of Abul Gasem, all America will come to know about it. He writes in his note-book that on such and such day, and such and such an hour 'Abdu'l-Baha laughed. What can I do with him? O Haji! O Haji! Can'st you not deliver me out of his hand? (He laughed very heartily.) But I am afraid we cannot send him away and he will not go away himself. He has become a fixture in Haifa."  ABU2785

One day at Adrianople I was with the Governor and we went to a garden where pears were growing. The Governor picked some pears with his own hand and gave them to me, insisting that I should eat them. I did not want them, but he insisted, so being embarrassed, I ate. The effect was disastrous. Immediately it affected my chest. I fell down and had to be taken home. The Governor came home with me. They put me in bed. One brought me tea, another something else. I said, 'Bring me salt.' I put a limp in my mouth. It tasted then better than sugar. I began to suck it.   ABU1054

In all my daily work and movements I rely on the confirmations of the Blessed Perfection. Whenever I feel weak I turn my face to Him and He strengthens me. When travelling in America and Europe, on many occasion[s] I did not have the power of uttering one word but before entering the meeting I begged Baha'u'llah to reinforce me and then walked in and commenced to speak for one or two hours. Whenever there is any work to be done and I see that physically I am not equal to it, I have just to resolve and supplicate Divine Assistance and arise in its performance. It will be done without delay.  ABU2790

The Master has borne all the hardships for our comfort and ease. He has become an impregnable fortress and a mighty shield before the world and its peoples, bringing us comfort. For us, they first obtained the Mansion of Mazra'ih where we stayed, and then the Mansion of Bahji. He has arisen to serve the Cause in such wise that they do not even have the opportunity to visit Bahji weekly, while we are occupied with [illegible] and the revelation of manifest verses, and they are beset with trouble, hardship and distress, for association with these people is more troublesome than any other hardship.  BHU0011

The Blessed Beauty sent me to Government House as His representative. First they put me where the guilty ones are placed. Then the public speaker went behind a podium and read the royal decree, which was in Turkish. In essence, it said that the family of Baha'u'llah would be imprisoned in 'Akka forever and that they would not have the right to leave the city. After hearing this edict I laughed. Those present were quite surprised and asked me, 'Why do you laugh?' I said, 'This passage has no meaning. If we are to remain in the city forever, we must also live forever. But we are not going to live eternally.'  ABU1607

These days are numbered few. I shall soon take refuge in the proximity of the Most Great Mercy, and shall be freed from both honor and humiliation, and shall find rest in the shade of the Tree of Companionship. I beseech all friends to pray for this servant that, as is the desire of my heart and soul, I may succeed in servitude at the Sacred Threshold - and nothing more. I have no other desires, seek no comfort, want no bounty, seek no glory, pursue no joy, but endure the stones of cruelty with perfect faithfulness, and bear accusations of polytheism, unbelief and apostasy with complete patience and tranquility.  AB00561

This servant's wish and purpose was such that I should have no trace or sign in this ephemeral world - that I should be completely effaced and non-existent and evanescent and without trace. But destiny was such that in early youth by a definitive command from the pure lips I should take a photograph. However it had been forgotten. I know not what happened that it fell into the hands of the friends until it spread throughout all the world and was printed in various forms, even appearing in many newspapers printed and published and famous, and through love of that Kind Beloved I became notorious throughout the horizons.   AB11890

However, at present there are many obstacles, though in the future, through the assistance and favor of Baha'u'llah, it is hoped that the means will be provided. Whenever possible, I shall immediately journey to India, but only if such a journey becomes feasible, for it is an extended voyage, and the Holy Land is a center receiving an unceasing flow of letters like rain from all directions. At minimum one in ten must be answered, while seekers bound for the Ka'bih of the Beloved arrive in succession, who must be met with and served, for 'Abdu'l-Baha is the servant of the friends and takes pride in this mighty station.   AB00255

Therefore the governor and his office and the representative of the Governor of Beirut, Abdul Rahman Hut, who had thought that I would offer them a bribe due to their threats, when they heard my response that the most beloved thing to me was crucifixion, they became cold like cold water poured on fire. After that, when the investigating committee came to 'Akka and requested to meet me, I declined, and even though Hikmat Bey came and pleaded, and even deceitfully wept saying, Even if for a brief time, honor us with your presence, I said, These people have come solely for investigation, and it is best that I do not meet with them at all.  ABU0243

When I went to Egypt Ahmad Zakki Pasha requested me to take my photograph but I did not accept. But when I went to London I realized how impossible it was to ward off the professional photographs. For the first few days I succeeded to elude them and hardly went out of the house. But one day there was a meeting in the house of Mrs Cropper and I was invited to attend. In order to escape their cameras I drew my Aba over my head and hastened to the automobile. They had however taken a snapshot and the next day I was surprised to see it in many newspapers. Realizing at last how impossible it was to prevent them I asked them to come and take at least a good photograph.  ABU1784

When in America, although I had a nervous fever, yet I attend churches, meetings, conventions, speaking and crying at the top of my voice. Never was I attacked with a spiritual weakness or inability. In Budapest I had a high fever and a severe cold. Notwithstanding this, from six in the morning until twelve at night, I was either speaking, calling on people, addressing meetings or writing. At nine in the evening there was a meeting on the top floor of a high building in a remote part of the city. A heavy snow was falling. It was very cold weather. I had this cold and fever, but notwithstanding this, I went and ascended 120 steps and addressed the people for about two hours.  ABU1044

When we were imprisoned in the barrack, one day, the Blessed Perfection spoke about the necessity of industrial education of the believers of God and their descendents. This was before the revelation of the Book of Akdas wherein the command of industrial education was laid down. When I heard His words I addressed myself: What can I do to learn a trade? I am in the prison. I cannot go out. There are no arts and trades schools in Acca. After much inquiry I found there was a mat-weaver in the town and I sent for him and stipulated with him for a certain sum to teach me his trade. He installed his simple weaving machine in one of the prison rooms and for six months I was an apprentice under the direction of my master. The first mat that I wove with my own hands I spread under the feet of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU0106

When we left the cemetery, we continued strolling to the train station where 'Abdu'l-Baha sat in the terminal and said to this ephemeral servant, "Now that you have become a physician, come and take my pulse." As soon as I checked His blessed pulse, I was shocked and reported, "Your pulse is very slow, but regular. The arteries seem to have the proper flow." 'Abdu'l-Baha remarked, "From the age of thirty, I have had a slow pulse. All others have a pulse rate of about 75 to 80 [per minute] and therefore greatly wonder about my pulse rate. What rate did you measure?" I said, "I did not count the rate, but suspect that it is about forty [per minute]." He responded, "No, it is 45 to 46. Count for yourself." I closely counted with my watch and it was 45. So I reported the result. He stated, "If I have a fever, it goes up to 50."   ABU3311

Years ago there was a village, half of which I was going to buy, but there was another party who was anxious to get hold of the same. He intrigued much but to no avail. At last the papers and documents were properly drawn up and signed and I went to the government's house to pay the money. When I arrived, the judge and a few other officials were present. I sat down and after the preliminary remarks, I took the money out of my pocket and started to count it. At that very moment the door was opened and one of the believers entered with the following message from the Blessed Perfection:- 'Leave the earth to the people of the earth.' I took the papers into my hands and torn them into pieces and said: 'Now whosoever desires to buy this land may do so without any interference on my part.' I got up and left the meeting. They were all astonished to see me giving up the land so suddenly.   ABU0998

Formerly I was so accustomed that I slept in Acca in the same small room with 13 other souls   ABU3077

The owner of this house was a native of Beirut. He himself used to live here. When the government gave permission for us to leave the barracks we wanted to rent a house. His partner had built a palace outside Akka and his house (adjoining this one) became empty. We wanted to take that house and the partner was willing, but when the owner heard of this he became furiously angry, saying, 'How can I be content to live with those strangers. How can I have trust and confidence in them?' His partner said, 'I trust them. These are not people to be afraid of. If they do not pay the rent I will be responsible for them.' The Russian Consul at that time, Mr. Urens, was a relative of the owner of the house. He was a honorary interpreter in the government service. (In former times certain people, for the sake of the honor, used to work for the government without salary.) He said to the owner of the house, 'You do not know these people. They are not highway robbers and they have not been guilty of any treachery to the nation. They have been sent here because of some religious matter. Rest assured about this.' Notwithstanding this the owner of the house was still distrustful and dissatisfied, until a Greek doctor in Akka who was also related to him, implored on their behalf, saying, 'The Consul and I will be responsible.' At last they satisfied him and we came and lived in the small house adjoining this. The owner of the house carefully nailed up the doors connecting the two houses, both in the upper and lower floors, so that there should be no going and coming between the two houses. Less than a fortnight afterwards we heard a knocking at the door. On opening it we found the wife of the owner of the house who had come to visit the ladies. She asked, 'Why do you not come to visit us?' They answered, 'You have nailed up the doors between the houses.' She said, 'Ah! We did not know you, at first, but now the doors must be opened, both upstairs and downstairs, and you can fetch water (from our house).' Less than a month elapsed, and I was sitting downstairs one day, when the owner of the house himself, came and said, 'I want to go to Beirut and I can trust no one. I have in the house money and jewels. I have three daughters and two sons-in-laws, but I cannot trust them, and even my partner. I want to leave things in your charge and go. I can trust no one else. I beg of you to let one of your people live in my house so that I can feel assured until I return after a few months.' I said, 'I cannot promise. Get someone else to undertake the charge and do not put it on me.' He said, 'It is impossible. If you do not consent, I shall have to give up this journey.' And he made an oath by Jamal-i Mobarak. I was therefore obliged to consent, and sent one of the Bahais to live in the house and take care of it until his return. He was exceedingly grateful and said, 'Never in all my life before have I traveled with my mind so much at ease as now, for I have the utmost confidence in you.' ABU0717


When I was very young one day I was taken through the Bazaars of Teheran. The shopkeepers had the custom to call aloud after the people to sell their wares and in order to entice the prospective customers they would call them by the most flattering names and titles. There was a very old woman - probably 80 yrs old - with bent back and wrinkled face - who walked at the time through the Bazaar. The shopkeepers would shout after her: 'Miss Khanom! O thou never-fading rose! O thou young, beautiful maiden! Come, here, grace with thy lovely presence our shops! We will reduce the prices for thee and sell thee cheaper than the rest.' All the time she knew well that these are foolish compliments but just the same she liked them. She would smile and pass by them, taking everything they said seriously. There are today so many people who are like that old woman. They love inane flattery and empty compliments which are no other than nets to snare unsuspecting people. ABU1094

After going for a lengthy stroll on the deck, the Master seated Himself and said: "I have taken 4,600 steps. This is the distance between the city of 'Akka and the Shrine of Baha'u'llah. I wish to practise walking, that I may be able to travel to the Shrine of Baha'u'llah on foot. In the latter days of my time in the Holy Land, I had grown so weak as to be deprived of the bounty of making pilgrimage on foot."  ABU3734

"Do you think", he said, "that this material food has any effect upon my body? This food has no effect. Only good news from the believers, the glad tidings which comes from all parts of the world of the advancement of the Cause, of the unity of the believers, this, only, improves my health."  ABU3096

According to the words of His Holiness the Spirit Who says "The body grieves while the spirit rejoices among them," my body has grown weary from this journey. Therefore when I speak at length, afterwards I must remain somewhat quiet and silent, yet praise be to God, the spirit through the bestowals of the Blessed Beauty is joyous.  ABU2219

Although the body is tired and weak, the spirit is gladdened by the glad-tidings of God. In the presence of spiritual confirmation, if there is some weakness in the physical realm, it matters not, for this earthly frame is composed of elements of the transient world. Surely health and wellness cannot be continuous - it is of no importance.   AB04683

The air here is most salubrious. The tranquility here is most delightful. Near the Most Exalted Shrine is a place of repose, where no sound or voice is heard. However, when I am here, affairs in 'Akka are disrupted. My heart finds no peace save in 'Akka. Yet the air of 'Akka does not agree with me. Several times I have gone there, fallen ill, and returned, although my joy lies in being in 'Akka.  ABU0832

No one can image how many different issues must be met and conflicting issues harmonized. I am now advanced in age. The reaction of this long journey has had terrible effect upon my weakened constitution and I cannot work as vigorously as I used to in my youth. When I read a letter my eyes grow weary; when I dictate a few Tablets my mind gets tired, when I walk a few thousand feet, I become exhausted.   ABU3326

Prolonged [sojourning in foreign lands] and traversing mountains, deserts, valleys and seas for three and a half years has caused weakness and exhaustion in nerves and sinews, for the body has borne more than its capacity. It is as if a person capable of carrying ten thousand mithqals were made to carry a million; however much he may endeavor to lift that heavy load through spiritual strength, the body cannot [endure it] and becomes subject to weakness and exhaustion. This is why Christ - may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him - says the flesh is sorrowful but the spirit is rejoicing. Now, although 'Abdu'l-Baha's body and faculties are weak, yet through the confirmations of the Abha Kingdom the spirit is in the utmost strength.  AB10882

Four times the means of marriage were brought about by my family and every time I refused their whole proposition. Finally the Blessed Perfection commanded me in the most empathic manner that I must marry. For the sake of His sacred Command I accepted it  ABU2669

One day in the course of His [Baha'u'llah's] talk He eulogized so much the lives and services of the teachers of the Cause and expressed such high appreciation of their unselfish lives, that although I was a prisoner, I said to myself: "Oh! that I might be confirmed in this!" Then I thought I might go to Kashgar, - one of the provinces of China and a place not visited up to that time by any Baha'i teacher. I was going to travel alone, singly and no baggage, only a hand-bag containing a number of Tablets and books and paper and pen. I secured even my passport, the old deceased Mofti stood as my guarantee. When the crafty Motosarraf, Ibrahim Pasha, heard about this, he sent his Secretary to me with the message: 'I have heard your Excellency contemplates taking a long journey. I will not be so disrespectful or discourteous as to thwart your plan or in any way hinder your departure but as I am the Governor of this province, I am responsible to the Central Government for everything that happens here. Therefore it will only be my official duty to send a cable concerning your departure as soon as you set your feet on the steamer.' I was familiar with the fortuitous way of Oriental expressions, so I saw that this was a polite way of saying: "We will not let you go!' hence I deferred it to a more opportune time.  ABU0331

Once during my early childhood I became very sick. At the time, my family lived in Teheran. I was lying in bed in a semi-conscious state. After much consultation the Doctors agreed upon a course of "musical treatment." Before sunset they brought into my room an old man with a very long beard. He carried under his 'Aba' a guitar. He sat near my bed and immediately began to play and sing. All through the night he played and sang, now in high, resonant voice and again in sweet, soft strains. My soul was charmed with his music. During certain hours of the night I opened my eyes and to my surprise I saw him weeping. In the morning I felt better and asked my mother why the musician was weeping? She said: 'He was not a professional artist but a mystic worshipper of the Beloved. His singing was not mechanical, but an outpouring of the joy felt in his heart. His poems were mystic and allegorical addresses to the Adored One. Through his music he spoke to the hearts and quickened and moved them by the power of spirit. He did not make himself a slave of technique or enunciation but he sang the living truth, the eternal reality, hidden in the chambers of human consciousness. In his mysterious way, with the key of life, he opened the secret doors of beatitude and unlocked the gates of the higher and loftier vision.' Soon I became well and strong but the song and music of the mystic artist has ever been with me. ABU0742
