As soon as they see a trace of violation of The Covenant they must hold aloof from the violators.  AB01701

These people are Babis and must be shunned.  AB10460

Such persons should never be mentioned to anyone.  AB08760

ASSOCIATION WITH THEM TOTALLY FORBIDDEN. INFORM BELIEVERS.  AB11467

Shun such as these, neither sit with them nor associate with them   BH02973

avoid meeting them most scrupulously association with them is totally forbidden  AB12757

AVOID MEETING THEM MOST SCRUPULOUSLY. ANY ASSOCIATION WITH THEM IS TOTALLY FORBIDDEN.  AB11122

Hold aloof from Taki Zade, Baba Aga, Assad'o'llah, and whomsoever associates with them.  AB11468

Should a cawing one come unto thee, shun him and put thy trust in God, the Lord of Lords   BH07976

Remember Him at all times, turning away from those who have turned away from His extended path.   BH10539


Beware! Beware! Lest anyone associate with them. Association with them is poison. Warn all the friends.  AB06616

Guard this station through the Name of the Lord of Names, for the cawing ones have been and are lying in ambush.  BH08454

you have taken up residence in this flourishing house and have become entirely detached from and averse to that buried foundation.   AB07420

He who sits with leper catches leprosy. He who is with Christ shuns Pharisees and abhors Judas Iscariots. Certainly shun violators.  AB11246

Whosoever from whom they detect the fragrance of hatred, they must leave to himself and place their trust in God, exalted be His glory.   BH02110

Otherwise the matter will become so confused that those very birds of night that have been stirred to action will become nonexistent and rejected   AB05082

The intention of moderation is that you should not engage in conflict and disputation, but also do not associate with them. Leave them to themselves.   AB02368

Preserve the people from the whisperings of those who have seized upon vain imaginings and cast behind their backs what was revealed in My Preserved Tablet.  BH03854

Shun ye those who claim faith and attribute themselves to God while committing that which causeth all things to lament and the limbs of all names to tremble   BH02089

Should you find anyone who showeth the least sign of aversion, turn away from him and shun his company. This is what We have enjoined upon you in all the Tablets.   BH08369

Therefore, as much as you can, protect the souls and banish the sick tubercular one. There is no other remedy. According to explicit verses, one must avoid the wicked.  AB04274

Therefore the honored Afnans of the Blessed Tree must always be alert and vigilant that this faction does not create damage through their calumnies, doubts and insinuations   AB00873

And when you observe that they make mention of Azal, at that time announce to all the friends that no one should go near them. These souls are very deceitful and full of tricks.   AB03122

You must strive night and day to strengthen hearts, and if you detect even the slightest whiff of wavering from any passerby, you must prevent the friends from associating with them.  AB04584

With those who are against the Centre of the Covenant you must not associate at all. When you find that a soul has turned away from the Covenant you must cut yourself off completely from him.   ABU3182

O My servants! Should any one of you hear that his brother or sister hath turned away from God, it behooveth him to turn away from that one and to turn towards the Beloved of the sincere ones.   BH00837

Such incidents will inevitably occur occasionally, but the friends should leave such persons to themselves - neither follow them nor expose them, and deal with them in the most excellent manner.  AB01519

Beware lest thou sit with Mine enemies. Flee from them and shun them. Then take for thyself a station beneath the shadow of thy Lord's protection, which God hath purified from the doubts of time.   BH01569

Guard thyself against these and their like. Indeed, were We to find thee capable within thyself, We would bid thee not even to pass through their marketplaces nor any city wherein dwelleth one of them   BH00853

Verily, enjoin upon the loved ones of God to refrain from molesting that deluded person. A stern prohibition! In truth I say: if any soul molests him, he was not and is not reckoned as being of the Truth  BH06749

Cleanse thou yourself from the love of these people, turn not thy face to them and befriend them not even for less than an instant. Avoid the likes of them and cling to the mercy of God and His generosity.   BH01854

However, it is not appropriate for the followers of Yahya to be present in your gatherings, for they have no purpose save casting doubts. Conduct yourselves in such a way that they themselves will not attend.   AB00492

Beware lest thou turn unto those in whose hearts thou findest hatred for the Youth, neither associate nor commune with them. Then turn away from such as these and draw nigh unto God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds.   BH04187

You must greatly advise and counsel the friends lest anyone confront these people. The Arab poet said: "If I were to throw a stone at every barking dog, stones would become worth a dinar." Leave them in their vain pursuits.   AB00761

Beware lest thou deal in a friendly manner with the enemies of God or associate with any of them. Thus doth it beseem Our steadfast loved ones who have remained firm in their love for God and have shunned every remote idolater.   BH06944

Do not allow these souls near you, avoid them completely. Until you are certain someone is completely detached from these corrupt ones, do not converse with them at all, for those parties are ill-intentioned and utterly corrupt   AB01037

As to the matter of our ill-wishers amongst the Yahya'is [i.e. the Azalis], who accuse the Friends [i.e. the Baha'is] of sympathy with the Court [or Government], it is certain that the truth of the case will become plain and evident.   AB02996

The friends in San Francisco are exceedingly firm. They do not receive violators in their homes. Recently a violator went to that city. The Baha'i friends turned him away, saying, "You are not with us; why do you try to come among us?"  ABU0412

And whoever directs you to associate with them under any pretext, absolutely do not accept it, even if they praise them highly. And write this matter to each of the cities of America one by one, so they can announce it among the friends.   AB01248

Therefore, the company of these people should be shunned and none should associate with them, unless they repent unto God. My Lord is verily the Compassionate, the Forgiving. Such repentance, however, must be sincere and not merely in words.   AB00048

from such souls one must absolutely keep distant and avoid, for the foul odor of Covenant-breaking is so putrid that even if it does not have an intense effect, it will inevitably distress the nostrils and cause weakness, laxity and feebleness   AB05624

"It is necessary for the believing souls to associate with the righteous that thus they might inhale Holy Breaths. When He (Baha'u'llah) says, associate with all religions with joy and fragrance, by this is meant the human kind and not the wicked."  AB02067

And shouldst thou see the Satan from whom thou perceivest the odor of polytheism, shun him and be under mighty protection. He appears in human form and speaks of what was revealed in the Bayan, that he might cause confusion among Our weak servants   BH04854

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name, through which the limbs of the idolaters trembled and the hearts of the deceivers were agitated - they who turned away from Thee and violated Thy Covenant and Testament, and followed their own desires in Thy days.   BH06199

Leave them in their stupefaction, bewildered. And thou, O thou who art enkindled with the fire ignited in the heart of the world, leave aside the nations and the doubts of the weak ones in knowledge and judgment - the dull-witted, foolish, ignorant ones   AB03296

We called it a secure city so that it might remain protected and safeguarded from the arrows of doubt of the Covenant-breakers... Therefore, we beseech God to preserve and protect the nostrils of holy souls from this foul odor, which is like a deadly poison.  AB01082

Thou must separate thyself from them and desire not their friendship. Seek for thyself, under the protection of thy Lord, a shelter fortified. Do not consort with those who have disbelieved and denied what they had accepted. Woe to the one who once believed and then rejected.  BH02115

speak with some of the firm Baha'is about the violators. Azalis may come to America such as Taqi Zadih. In the beginning they will profess to be Baha'is and when they have established themselves in your confidence they will then begin to scatter the seeds of doubt and violation.  ABU2073

Mirza Asadu'llah went to London to counsel his son and wife and bring them to repentance, but it is clear that he joined them. His purpose too is to cast doubts. And regarding Sprague, it is as thou hast written - through subtle means she casts doubts, but in the end she will regret it.   AB01316

You must surely avoid these hate-filled souls who strive to destroy the edifice of the Abha Beauty and break the Covenant of that Peerless Beloved, even if they possess papers from 'Abdu'l-Baha in their hands. For the Covenant-breakers have a strong foul odor - avoid them as soon as you detect it.  AB02430

If you are firm and steadfast in the Covenant, maintain strong and firm relations with the Convention, and withdraw from anyone in whom you detect the odor of violation, so that you may remain protected and preserved under the shield of the Covenant and, like a candle, shine with the light of steadfastness.  AB00224

Never associate with Mrs. Kirchner. Never speak a word to Mrs. Kirchner. When I was in Chicago she begged My pardon. I accepted her. At that very moment I realized she was lying. I made her understand that her repentance was not sincere. But using that pardon as a pretext she came and sewed seeds of intrigue.  ABU1634

Therefore He cabled and wrote to America, even to you, that if any Persian, whether stranger or acquaintance, should come to America without bearing in his hand a permit written and signed by Me, beware, beware of drawing nigh unto him. Not only must you not draw nigh to such a person, but do not even look at him.   AB00119

I declare by the Educator of the visible and invisible, it will evidently be witnessed that the descendants of the violators will think their descent as a disgrace and will disown their fathers and forefathers, just as Akrama, the son of Abudjahl, kept clear of his father, and Kaled, the son of Valid, left his father.   AB01455

With those who are against the Centre of the Covenant you must not associate at all. When you find that a soul has turned away from the Covenant you must cut yourself off completely from him. You will know these people. You will see it in their faces. You will see a dimness on the faces, like the letting down of a veil.  ABU3182

O ye beloved ones, guard the Cause of God! Let no sweetness of tongue beguile you -- nay, rather consider the motive of every soul, and ponder the thought he cherisheth. Be ye straightway mindful and on your guard. Avoid him, yet be not aggressive! Refrain from censure and from slander, and leave him in the Hand of God.   AB00204

Sanctify yourselves from associating with those who have turned away from the Ancient Beauty and who have arisen to practice deception in God's Cause. Purify yourselves from drawing near unto them. By God! That which issueth from their mouths would consume the hearts of them who are nigh unto God. Beware lest ye hasten unto them.  BH11243

The intention of Baha'u'llah's exhortation is not to associate with a Covenant-breaker or those who curse the Blessed Beauty, or the likes of Haji Muhammad-Karim Khan who wrote in refutation of His Holiness the Exalted One. The intention is to consort with such people that are not antagonistic, or two-faced, or conniving, or hypocritical.   ABU1972

If you detect the slightest whiff of that word which I am ashamed to mention and from which I seek refuge in God, you must completely avoid that person. The Blessed Beauty is disgusted with such a person, the Exalted One stands apart, and such a one is a bloodthirsty enemy to 'Abdu'l-Baha. Inform all the friends so they may be on their guard   AB02900

Should anyone come to you secretly and call you to waver in the Covenant and Testament, be not shaken; know that such a one is an evil person and among the companions of Satan. You must surely avoid him. Whosoever calls you to the divine Covenant is among the companions of the All-Merciful, and whosoever wavers is an enemy of the Blessed Beauty.  AB12529

Have nothing to do with Mrs. Kirchner. Do not admit her to your meetings. Leave her to herself. In case you find some doubtful soul, investigate and find out what is the matter. Investigate with Mrs. True and Bagdadi. If after inquiry you find they still feel the same, do not permit them to come. Leave her (Mrs. Kirchner) to herself. Have nothing to do with her.   ABU2638

Make every effort to protect them, for the people of doubts have arisen with various means - sometimes showing themselves as oppressed, sometimes uttering words of unity, sometimes praising the Intended One, sometimes claiming firmness and steadfastness by pen and tongue, so that through various deceptions they may cause wavering in the hearts of the steadfast ones   AB01628

And so from the very beginning any such deviation must be prevented. Of course, anyone who wants to gain a following and create division among the friends will at first resort to one of the divine verses and make himself appear to be sincere and deeply attached to the Faith. Words of humility and sacrifice flow from his tongue so that he may deceive the simple and the naive.   ABU1268

Is it rational for us to aid him? If a thief wants to enter a house and rob it, should we help him? Judas sold Christ for a trifling thirty coins and Dr. Farid has sold us for four or five dollars. This foundation has been laid through the sufferings and blood of many sacred souls; therefore, is it equitable of us to allow it to be demolished by the treachery of an ill-wisher?   ABU0522

First, shun those in whom thou perceivest the stench of malice and hypocrisy, and sit not with them in any gathering. This is God's command unto thee and unto those who ascend unto the heights of the spirit. Thou hast sat with them on several occasions - and We know this from the knowledge which God hath taught Me - therefore We forbid thee and those who would soar unto the heaven of nearness.   BH00903

Be very mindful of this. Do not allow these souls into your gatherings and meetings. Associate only with one who has in hand a letter of permission with the writing and signature of 'Abdu'l-Baha. Otherwise avoid them and make excuses. No individual among you is permitted to associate with them, for spiritual diseases are like physical diseases - like plague and cholera and cancer they are contagious.  AB00826

The divine friends must absolutely, absolutely avoid any association with him. Previously a letter was written and a telegram sent stating that if any Iranian person, whether believer or non-believer, comes to America without having a document bearing my seal and signature, the divine friends should know with certainty that he is from the friends of Satan and must completely avoid associating with him.   AB01055

Would that someone were aware of his recent deeds that appeared in Cyprus. This servant is ashamed to mention them. Now consider: what do the deluded souls who dwell in those lands, who never had any awareness of this Cause, do and say? God willing, through the power and might of the assured souls, the stronghold of the Cause has been and will be protected from the wickedness of malicious deluded souls.   BH00450

The Blessed Beauty in all His Tablets and treatises forbade the faithful and steadfast friends from associating with the violators of the Bab's Covenant, that no one should approach them, for their influence is like the venom of the cobra which kills instantly. Among other passages, in the Hidden Words He states: "Regard the fellowship of the righteous as a gift, and deem freedom from the company of the wicked as a blessing."   AB00024

Never can the cooing of the Dove be mistaken for the croaking of the raven of hatred, nor can the melodies of the birds of holiness be confused with the cries of crows and magpies. The screech of the falcon soaring in the heights of glory can never resemble the screeching and moaning of the owls of oppression. The glorification and praise of the Supreme Concourse can never accord with the ranting of the rabble in the lowest depths.   AB00332

This servant was absolutely unwilling to meet with him and wrote to Haji Mahmud that this person's intention was like that of Aqa Khan in the Blessed Days who came to Akka with deceit and insisted on attaining the Blessed Presence, showing the utmost helplessness and lamentation. When some arose to intercede, it was said that this person's intention was to meet Us and then slander Us - and so it happened. And now this person's purpose is the same.  AB03662

In any case, you must exercise the utmost care lest the utterances or publications of these veiled ones influence the weak ones, or cloud the pure hearts of the simple ones, or their cold breath make the thoughtless ones grow cold. For doubts at all times act as a deadly poison which makes a healthy body sick or even destroys it. Therefore you must, holding fast to the Covenant like a kind physician, prevent this swift poison and treat this chronic and severe illness.   AB03071

With this consideration those responses were recorded but not published. Now it is observed that this has become cause for their audacity. We are perplexed as to what course to take. In any case, the Glad Tidings treatise has now been published and thou hast sent it abroad. The person in question has written a rebuttal. Publish also the response to his rebuttal, that they might become mindful, though this is difficult, for understanding, recognition and feeling have vanished from this group  AB04593

Should ye find from anyone the slightest trace of aversion, turn away from him and shun him. This is what We have enjoined upon you in all the Tablets, and to this testifieth all things, both seen and unseen, and beyond them the Beauty of transcendent, glorious newness. For they are the manifestations of Satan in this day. By God, the True One! The name of God floweth not from their tongues save to turn the servants of the All-Merciful away from the shore of luminous glory. Beware, O loved ones of God! Draw not nigh unto these people, nor gather with them in any place.  BH11044

Therefore inhale with a spiritual power, unquestionably you will distinguish between the two smells. For in this irrefutable utterance and blessed writing He has most emphatically commanded all the nakezeens to obey (the center of the Covenant.) All the nakezeens whom you observe know this fact but self-interest having crept in they are following the violation. There are letters preserved with the handwriting of Keirullah in which he clearly writes: 'I testify that thou art the Christ, the son of God;' but I did not accept this from him and wrote back that I am Abdul Baha. Now on account of some interest he is following the Nakezeens, but this interest will not remain, it will disappear. This century will pass and in the next century there will remain not one Nakez.  AB02463

Since never before has such an explicit Covenant been established by the Supreme Pen, therefore the tests are also great. These tests cause the weak souls to waver, but what effect do they have on strong souls? These doubts of the Covenant-breakers are like the foam of the sea, and the sea cannot be without foam. The sea of the Covenant will surge once and cast out the dead bodies to the shore, for the sea does not accept dead bodies. Thus did the sea of the Covenant surge again and again until it cast out the dead bodies - that is, those souls who are deprived of the divine spirit and who follow their desires and passions and harbor thoughts of leadership. In brief, this foam of the sea has no permanence and will soon vanish and disappear, while the sea of the Covenant will surge eternally and remain in turmoil and upheaval. One must associate with souls who are firm in the Covenant and befriend the righteous, for evil companions cause evil qualities to spread, like leprosy - it is impossible for one to associate with a leper and not contract leprosy. This is for protection and preservation. Christ did not exercise compulsion regarding Judas Iscariot and His brothers, but they deprived themselves. In brief, the point is that although 'Abdu'l-Baha is infinitely kind, yet what can He do when there is leprosy? Just as with physical diseases one must prevent association and transmission and enforce health regulations, since contagious physical diseases destroy human life, similarly one must protect and preserve the blessed souls from foul odors and deadly spiritual diseases, otherwise violation of the Covenant, like the plague, will spread and all will perish. AB02183


