Baha'u'llah was a descendent of Abraham.  ABU3637

Baha'u'llah was the greatest of God's Manfiestations  ABU3744

The father of the Blessed Beauty was born in Nur. But also his mother.  ABU1012

I inquired as to the genealogy of Baha'u'llah, and 'Abdu'l-Baha said that He was of Abraham's blood -- not through Isaac or Ishmael, but through one of his other sons by Katurah by whom he had six sons.   ABU3542

This servant was not among the learned ones and had not traveled to distant lands, and according to outward appearance was born in the household of one of the government officials and was related to him.  BH11395

Baha'u'llah is not from the line of Ishmael, but rather from the lineage of other brothers who migrated to the regions of Iran and Afghanistan. For Abraham had six other sons besides Isaac and Ishmael, and they went to Iran and Afghanistan.  AB05725

Know thou verily, Baha'u'llah is the Promised One in all the Books and Tablets   AB02800

Had the principles of unity, taught by the Christ, remained in the hearts, men would have refrained from war. Universalism must be retaught. Baha'u'llah has brought the force to unite the most antagonistic sects and bring all nations under one flag.  ABU2416

The Beauty of Abha -- may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones -- was the Sun of Truth which, in this cycle, shone forth at its zenith  AB07948


Baha'u'llah is the sun of truth; all humanity will be illumined under his protection and whosoever follows his instructions in this day will feel the potency of his protection.   ABU1348

Baha'u'llah is the Promised One of all nations, and the first Teacher and first Educator of the human world...Baha'u'llah is like a luminous mirror and the Sun of Truth is manifest and apparent in Him.   AB06723

Today His Holiness, Baha'u'llah is the Center of this Light, Which saveth the people from the darkness of blind imitations, racial, personal and political prejudices and leadeth (them) to the Oneness of spirit  AB12287

Even the physical sensations of the Blessed Beauty were heightened. When the blessed heart was happy, indescribable joy was visible on the blessed face. Likewise, if the blessed heart was saddened, the traces of sadness would flow from the blessed countenance.  ABU3650

He is the greatest of the world of humanity. He is peerless. He is beyond my limited Knowledge. I cannot describe him. Do you want any miracle? His very existence is a miracle; his walking is a miracle, his speaking is a miracle... All his deeds, his words and his conducts are standing miracles.   ABU0173

This is verily the Beauty of the heavens and earth, wert thou of them that are assured. This is the Beauty the like of which hath never appeared in all creation. These are days the like of which the eye of creation hath never seen, and in the like of which none of God's Messengers hath appeared save this most wondrous and incomparable Revelation. Through this Revelation is the decree of origination made manifest, were ye of them that are assured, and through this Revelation hath the power of God been established among His servants and His sovereignty manifested unto all possessed of keen insight and knowledge.   BH00425

The Presence of the Blessed Perfection was awe-inspiring. Those who came into his Presence knelt down against their own will. They could not help themselves. They were awe-struck by the wonderful power and authority which emanated from Him.  ABU1551

Baha'o'llah did not speak one word in Arabic, although He wrote it. ABU1641

Baha'o'llah had enjoyed great affluence. By exiling us and confiscating all our estates the government hoped to blot out the family.  ABU0980

