My banishment from My homeland was for the sake of none but the Beloved; My exile was in no other path save that of His good-pleasure. From the land of Ta, after countless afflictions, We reached 'Iraq, at the bidding of the Tyrant of Persia, where, after the fetters of Our foes, We were afflicted with the perfidy of Our friends. At length, abandoning My home and all that was therein, and renouncing My life and all that pertained thereunto, I retired alone and companionless. I roamed the wilderness of resignation. For two years or rather less, I shunned all else but God, and closed Mine eyes to all except Him.   BH00579

During the first years of our stay in Bagdad Baha'u'llah suddenly departed for the mountains of Soleymanieh. At this time we did not know His whereabouts at all and so it happened that there was no one to teach the Cause or muster the scattered Babi forces; The fire of search was almost extinguished and the interest of the public waned. There was no one to assuage the fear of the few or attract the hearts of the many. The voice of divine authority was hushed and the thunders and lightings of spiritual revelations did not roll and flash across the heavenly track.... At this juncture two young men from Meelan came to Bagdad. They were enkindled believers and they brought cheer and happiness to our despondent and sorrowing hearts. It was now a long time that we had heard no news from the Blessed Perfection. The fire of spirituality and activity was put out of every soul. The hearts were bewildered and the spirits drooped. No amount of exertion whatever could in the least stir the spirits of a few fearful Babis with courage or self-sacrifice. At that time I was very young. These two new believers from Meelan came and knocked at the door. I went and opened it. I observed they are two young men from Meelan. Their faces were luminous, their eyes radiant. They were shining like unto two suns. I asked them to come in. …….. After a while they asked about the Cause. I told them the Cause is extinct, there is no Cause. They asked about Mirza Yahya, I told them he is concealed and no one knows his whereabouts. They asked about Baha'u'llah. I told them I do not know where he is. As soon as they heard this sad news they looked at each other and began to weep and weep. For nearly one hour they sat down on the floor and wept bitter tears of regret and disappointment. I tried to console them, but I could not succeed. My own heart was sad when observing the chaotic conditions of the Cause, and the absence of any life. Then they arose from their seats, and without any remarks left the house in utter silence. They did not any leave any address and I never heard from them afterwards. How different it is now!  ABU0787


In the days of Baghdad and Sulaymaniyyih, Shaykh 'Abdu'l-Husayn was told that the Blessed Beauty was attracting the Kurds to Himself by quoting Sufi and gnostic terms. This poor Shaykh obtained a copy of the Futuhatt-i-Makkiyyih and committed its passages to memory. But wherever he quoted them, he saw that none lent an ear to him. He was greatly puzzled as to why people did not listen to him. The Blessed Beauty said, 'Tell the Shaykh that We are not in the habit of reading the Conquests of Mecca but We impart to them the verses of True Civilization. We are not propounding the writings of the Shaykh [Ibn al-'Arabi], we are propounding the Holy Writ.'  ABU1828

"Upon My arrival in Iraq, detached from all else save God, I withdrew for two years. Singly and alone I departed for the wilderness and severed Myself from the world and its peoples. But during that period of withdrawal solitude was not granted to me. Those joyous days soon passed and came to an end, and it hath not been My portion ever since."   BH03441

During Baha'u'llah's seclusion in Sulaymaniyyih, He mostly drank milk and ate bread with rice pudding; this is truly excellent sustenance.  ABU3753

While Baha'u'llah was in Baghdad, still in possession of great wealth, He left all He had and went alone from the city, living two years among the poor. They were His comrades. He ate with them, slept with them and gloried in being one of them.  ABU0882

At the time that His Holiness Baha'u'llah was in the mountains of Sulymanieh one of the young rugged, illiterate kurds inhabiting in the valleys came to see Him. The Blessed Perfection is kind to him and his love grows for Baha'u'llah. His name was Mollah Ali Mardan. Although he had the title of "Mullah" yet he was illierate. He did not know anything about faith but ardently he adored Baha'u'llah. Everyday he would leave his flock and go to the cave to hear the Blessed Perfection speak. Finally the time came that Baha'u'llah through the pleadings of the friends returned to Bagdad and a new life and hope were infused in the bodies. Shorty after the return of Baha'u'llah, the father of Mulla Ali Mardan tells him I see thee in depression and gloom. If thou desirest to go to the "Holy Man" thou mayst go." The young man is beside himself with joy and leaves his humble home instantly. When he arrived in Bagdad he came right to Baha'u'llah. He had a round felt hat on his head and rough woolen-camel clothes, very picturesque. As he was a most simple man he mixed his Persian with Kurdish dialect and the result was very amusing. Baha'u'llah received him with graciousness and open arms. As the inspector of the custom-house was a devoted follower of the Blessed Perfection He sent for him. When he arrived, Baha'u'llah pointed Mulla Ali Mardan to him "This is my friend" He said "I hope you will give him a position in the custom House." "Very well" the inspector respectfully answered. and the "friend" of Baha'u'llah was properly installed in work with fair wages. ABU0254

And that is why the Blessed Beauty adopted the title Darvish, meaning, the poor: "Darvish, world is consumed by God's blazing flame, It's time to breathe life through Thy Hidden Melody." Or "Darvish, do not utter too many words, Since of a word came forth this world."  ABU1843

The Blessed Beauty used to say that during the Sulaymaniyyih days, His food was mostly milk and sometimes rice pudding.  ABU3479


Three days after his return from Soleymanieh he walked out in the Bazaars of Baghdad. One of the shopkeepers, seeing Baha'u'llah walking with such majesty and glory raised his head in astonishment and called aloud to his friends: "Look! how the Baha'is are appearing on the scene again."  ABU0775

When Baha'u'llah left Bagdad and without the knowledge of the friends went to Soleymanie...he retired to the mountains where nobody could reach him.  ABU2005

During the time when the Ancient Beauty (may His glory be glorified) had gone to Sulaymaniyyih and was living in seclusion and retirement on Mount Sar-Galu   ABU2451


Baha'o'llah departed to Sarkalu alone. Nobody knew just where he was, even we were not informed. Two years he passed at Sarkalu. Some of the time he passed in the mountains, some of the time in grottoes, and some of the time in the city of Sarkalu.   ABU2412

Soon after Our arrival, We betook Ourself to the mountains of Kurdistan, where We led for a time a life of complete solitude. We sought shelter upon the summit of a remote mountain which lay at some three days' distance from the nearest human habitation.  BHU0002

I departed from among the servants alone and wandered for two years in the wilderness, detached from all who dwell in the realm. When the appointed time came, He returned me to the people once again, and the matter was decreed by Him, not by my self and desire.   BH01052

The Hidden Words was revealed after the journey to Sulaymaniyyih. The Sprinkling of the Cloud was revealed in the year sixty-seven. The fame of the Blessed Beauty as Baha'u'llah was at that time. The Temple that the Bab wrote was in sixty-seven in the final days of the Bab.  ABU3147

For the Well-Beloved was then in Kurdistan, living in a cave at Sar-Galu; and there, entirely alone in that wasteland, with no companion, no friend, no listening soul, He was communing with the beauty that dwelt in His own heart. All news of Him was completely cut off; Iraq was eclipsed, and in mourning.  AB00002

When Baha'u'llah left Bagdad and for two years no one knew where he was, because of his absence the Cause became extinct. There was no life and enthusiasm in the hearts of the believers. On His return he exclaimed:- What is this: open the door! Let every one come in! He infused in them a new spirit. He rekindled the fire.  ABU0775

When after two years the Blessed Beauty returned from Sulaymaniyyih, He was wearing a dilapidated coat, a vest with no sleeves and a cotton headgear. The Kurds used to recall that each night Baha'u'llah's voice was raised high in prayer and, though they could not make out the actual words, they could hear His supplications and invocations.   ABU2838

When we were exiled from Teheran to Bagdad we remained there one year. Then, suddenly, Baha'o'llah disappeared. We endeavored to find him but were not successful. For two years there was no news of him...During the day he remained within the cave, but the moonlight nights he spent outside chanting and praying, as he was greatly charmed by the moonlight.  ABU0047

There was a Mohamad Bey, a Kurd, of short stature, fat and a long beard. He had met Baha'u'llah when he was living in the mountain of Soleymanieh and became His ardent follower. When Baha'u'llah returned from the mountains after two years of absence, this Mohamad Bey also came to Bagdad bringing 46 mares for the governor Omar pasha. ABU0711

The Kurdish nobles, both from the Pashas and the ulama who had attained His presence in Kurdistan, came to Baghdad. Some of them attained the Most Holy Presence and became the cause of spreading knowledge of Him. They told everyone that when He arrived in Sulaymaniyyih no one knew Him, even His blessed name was Darvish Muhammad. He took residence in the Sulaymaniyyih monastery.  ABU0576

During this period of retirement none, whether among My brothers or any other soul, sought to investigate the matter, let alone to grasp its significance, though its import surpasseth the creation of earth and heaven. At last the divine decree prompted certain spiritual souls to remember this Canaanite Youth. Armed with a number of petitions, they searched in every place and enquired from every person, until they found in a mountain cave a trace of this traceless One.   BH00579

When some mounted guards who were accompanying him on the road wounded him and took his possessions, this news and report reached Baghdad and came to the ears of the friends that Aqa Abu'l-Qasim's property and belongings should be delivered to Darvish Muhammad. From the circumstances, we surmised that because Aqa Abu'l-Qasim-i-Hamadani had previously been with the Blessed Beauty and had also set out on a journey when the Blessed Beauty disappeared, then surely Darvish Muhammad was the Blessed Beauty and must be in the vicinity of Sulaymaniyyih.   ABU2325

After hearing this story, we knew that this Darvish Muhammad was the Blessed Beauty. In our respective homes, both Mirza Aqa Jan and I repeated the supplication, 'O Thou Who art invoked!' 2,001 times. Then we asked Haji Faraj if he knew of any other Iranians in Sulaymaniyyih. He said that there was one whose name was Haji 'Abbas. Through Haji Faraj we wrote to Haji 'Abbas, who wrote back, 'This erudite darvish is residing on Sar-Galu mountain.  It is impossible to go there because of the presence of hooligans. He comes to the town once a week to go to the public bath.' Hence, Shaykh Sultan and Aqa Muhammad-Javad left for Sulaymaniyyih. There they investigated and made inquiries about His whereabouts. At last they learned that He was indeed residing on Sar-Galu mountain and that it was impossible for them to go there. So they waited in Sulaymaniyyih until He arrived. They attended His presence and presented their plea. Baha'u'llah, however, did not agree. Then they said, 'We do not want to do anything contrary to Thy blessed will but we are not leaving Thy presence either.' ABU0455

In a short time Kurdistan was magnetized with His love. During this period Baha'u'llah lived in poverty. His garments were those of the poor and needy. His food was that of the indigent and lowly. An atmosphere of majesty haloed Him as the sun at mid-day. He was so resplendent that the people said this is how the Messiah must have looked. Many people from various places flocked to meet Him - philosophers and mystics of different faiths sought His presence. All became His ardent admirers. Frequently they gathered at His home engaging in deep spiritual discussions late into the night. They marveled at His knowledge, grace and brilliance. In truth, His radiant personality, His profound wisdom, and His compelling spiritual power drew all who met Him. Not only the common people, but scholars and officials found themselves irresistibly attracted to His divine presence.  ABU0223

Perceiving the covert rebellion of Mirza Yahya and others, Baha'u'llah journeyed alone to Sulaymaniyyih and was absent for two years. During that time, Mirza Yahya was acting with utmost caution behind a veil of concealment and, fearing the attention of the General Consul of Persia in Baghdad, disguised himself, took the name of Haji 'Ali, and engaged in selling shoes and plaster in Basrah and in Suqu'sh-Shuyukh in the vicinity of Baghdad. The Cause became entirely quiescent, the Call ceased to be heard, and all name and trace thereof well-nigh vanished. During His sojourn in Sulaymaniyyih, Baha'u'llah penned a number of works, among them certain prayers of which copies are still extant, and certain epistles on mystical wayfaring addressed to the doctors and the learned men of Islam, which are likewise still extant. In those epistles certain teachings are expounded, among them words to this effect: "Were it not contrary to the perspicuous Law of God, I would have given my would-be murderer to be my heir. But what am I to do--I have no worldly possessions, nor hath it been thus decreed by His sovereign will." In any event, all the doctors and learned men of Sulaymaniyyih attested to the knowledge, attainments, and perfections of Baha'u'llah and developed an affection for His person; that is, they would say that this Man was unique and ranked among the chosen ones of God.  AB00097

when the Luminary of the horizons illumined the horizon of Iraq, no voice was raised from any direction, and no movement was observed from any body. All were found to be dead or withered while living, and were concealed behind veils from the severity of the days and the wrath of men. When these things were witnessed, We arose to promote the Cause - an arising after which there was no sitting down. And when, through divine power, the banners of the Most Great Remembrance were raised upon the highest station of the world, the buzzing of flies emerged from behind the veil. Verily thy Lord knoweth what befell the Temple of the Cause at the hands of the oppressors.  BH04767

