We left them to themselves that perchance the fire of negation and wretchedness might be stilled. I wandered through the lands for two successive years, and none knew of My person save God Who created it and fashioned it. Thou knowest that I sent no word or trace of My pen to My family lest they discover the land wherein I dwelt, while they remained in turmoil, trembling and lamentation.   BH00899

Thou knowest that I fled alone from among these people and migrated unto God, the Lord of the hereafter and of the former times. By God, O My Name! When I raised up the mention of My brother among the people and his cause became renowned, he arose in secret to harm Me, such that none would meet with him but that he would cast hatred of Me into their hearts. And when I became aware of his secret and what was in his heart, I departed from Iraq lest there should arise among the servants that which would compromise the dignity of the Cause.   BH00899

When the Blessed Beauty was residing in Baghdad, there was a Shi'i Muslim by the name of Shaykh 'Abdu'l-Hamid who had a tremendous love and affection for Baha'u'llah. At the time of His departure from Baghdad, this man ran a distance of ten miles, escorting Baha'u'llah out of the city.  ABU0800

I went from the capital of the kingdom of Iran to Iraq, with the permission and approval of the King and the awareness of the foreign ambassadors, and for twelve whole years I resided in Iraq. Even now I have in my possession the document (issued by) the government of Iran, (stating that) we left with (their) permission and approval. During the period of my residence in Iraq, not one unworthy or untoward action was manifested by me; all the foreign consuls who were then in Iraq will bear witness and attest to (the truth of) what I say.  BH01047

When they exiled us from Persia, from Teheran, to Baghdad, there are thirty stages -- in these thirty stages we did not find one Bahai. We did not meet one. And now in every one of these stages there are great numbers of Bahai friends.   ABU0236

Vast amounts of jewellery and many precious objects were in our possession, but all of them were lost. Despite all this material wealth, we arrived in Baghdad with nothing.  ABU1117

At one time I was walking along the shore of Euphrates. Absorbed in my thought I suddenly heard the most charming and sweetest sound. I turned my head and saw a simple Arab lad riding on a donkey, loaded with under-brushes and playing on his flute. I was so intoxicated with the melody of his faultless tone that I requested him to get down from his donkey and play for me. I helped him to unload his donkey and then quietly we sat under the inviting shade of a tree. Then he began to play with such depth of feeling and beauty that my whole heart went to him. I drank deeply the sweet cadences and harmonies of his flute to such an extent that I was entranced thereby. When he finished playing I assisted him again to load his donkey, gave him a present and the address of our house and asked him to call on me next day. At the appointed hour he came and played for us and as there were several prominent men in the room they all liked his music and asked him in turn to go to their homes one night a week and entertain them and their guests. In a short while he became famous throughout all Bagdad and leaving his hard labor of thorn-picking he devoted his career to the inspiring art of music. With his growing popularity he grew in wealth and position and became a respected, loved and honored member of the community. He was still in Bagdad when we were exiled to Constantinople and used to call on me almost every week antecedent to our departure. ABU1217

In the days we spent in the Abode of Peace, we would sit in the coffee-house and meet with souls both familiar and strange, from within and without.  BHU0008


When we were in Bagdad often with one pound of meat we serve dinner to fifteen or twenty people. We cooked with it Persian stew and filled the pot with water so everyone could have a bowl of thin soup. Notwithstanding this we were all very happy and thought that ours was the most delicious dinner.   ABU2408

"When and where were the Hidden Words revealed?" 'Abdu'l-Baha responded, "In Baghdad, in a room overlooking the Tigris River. At the time of its revelation, the Blessed Countenance [of Baha'u'llah] was most excited."  ABU3662

He [Abdu'l-Baha] spoke of the Blessed Beauty's visit to Kirmanshah [on His way to Baghdad]. He remarked:  "How bitterly cold was that winter! We arrived at a caravansary located by a moat. The journey was full of sufferings and difficulties, but since it was in the path of God, it was filled with joy and delight, and we were so happy. In Asadabad it was particularly cold. The temperature was 38 degrees below zero. My socks were wet which caused my feet to be frostbitten. That evening we were to eat some halvah. By mistake, however, pepper was added in place of sugar, which severely burned our mouths and throats. That night we did not sleep and constantly drank water. From the blessings of those adversities, those banishments, now the banner of the Divine Faith is hoisted most high!"  ABU2575

When we arrived in Bagdad we were in the utmost poverty, because the secular and religious authorities had exiled us from Teheran after confiscating and pillaging all our belongings, yet the straightened circumstances did not affect us at all. When we were travelling, we passed by the village, Asad Abab, in the vicinity of Hamadan. The coldness of the climate of this place is proverbial, and as it was in the heart of the Winter my feet were frost-bitten.  ABU0606

When we were living in Bagdad according to the custom of that country we slept on the roof during the summer months. Always I went up on the roof by nights one month before any one else, did and stayed one month and half longer at the end of the season. The members of the family insisted that I must come down because it was getting cold, but I did not listen to them.  ABU2392

I remember when I was a child in Baghdad, there was an elderly man who lived near our house. He was poor, and occasionally we would give him bread. One day I saw him take bread from under his arm - first he would look at each piece of bread, then smile, then thank God, and put it in his mouth. He derived such pleasure from that bread that I have never forgotten it.  ABU1752

For the Wronged Beauty Himself requested permission from the government of Iran to emigrate to Iraq, and to this day the official papers from the Prime Minister of Iran and the embassy of the Sublime State in Tehran are in hand, speaking and declaring explicitly that the Wronged Beauty is the one who requested to emigrate and no one forced Him to do so.   AB00525


When I was young I was busy all day and often till midnight there were callers to be entertained. When the last of them left the house I felt so drowsy that while I was going up the steps I was asleep. It was very strange that while walking I had all the sensation of sleeping. Before I reached my bed I was sound sleep and then I dropped on it just with my clothes on.   ABU0862

One evening when we had gathered at the house of Aqay-i-Kalim the Blessed Beaury honoured us with a visit. "We did not associate with officials and the people while dwelling in the Most Great Prison," He mentioned on that occasion, "but left this difficult task for the Master. In Baghdad We would often sit and converse with visitors until six hours after nightfall."  BHU0051


In our days in Baghdad, we would go to the coffeehouse and sit there, meeting with outsiders and insiders, strangers and friends, those far and near. We would bring the distant near, make the stranger a friend, bring the outsider in, serve the Cause of God, aid the Word of God, and exalt the Name of God.  BHU0011


If the Blessed Beauty was not exiled to Bagdad and did not stay 11 years, the fame of the Cause would not have become international.  ABU0621

One day in the outer part of the Blessed House (in Baghdad), one of the travelers from Tehran respectfully asked the Presence (Baha'u'llah), "How large of a stipend and expenditure does the Sadr A`zam (chancellor) allot you every month such that all the expenses which arise are completely taken care of?" (Baha'u'llah) said, "I should give the likes of the Sadr A`zam a salary, not them bestow it on me.  My affairs are with God and not in the trust of others." Someone else among the Tehran friends said, "During the days of your stay in Tehran you gave liberally and generously to all kinds of people. How is it possible that you do not give these kinds of gifts to the souls that are (now) around you?"  In answer, (Baha'u'llah) said, "If I behaved as I did previously, all would say that these souls are turning to the world because of this Cause and some would think that they possess the process of the elixir [i.e. that they know alchemy]." BHU0025

Eleven years sojourn in Bagdad widened immensely the circle of the influence of the Cause and carried its fame to the four corners of the earth.  ABU0962


In Baghdad there was a small room, about one-third the size of this one, in which a number of the believers were living  ABU3314


The Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones) traveled directly from Tehran to Hamadan, from Hamadan to Kermanshah, and from Kermanshah directly to Baghdad.  AB04317

From Persia they exiled him, saying, 'Now his cause is uprooted. No more trace of him will remain.' But no! If he had not come to Baghdad his cause would not have made such progress in Persia.   ABU0513

In this time, when the bird of eternity has flown from the land of Iraq and the people of longing and yearning burn with the fire of separation, this letter is being sent by this ephemeral ant to the friends of God....  Now that moment has passed, and that day has slipped out of your grasp. That breeze shall not blow again in this land, that rose shall not again flower here, and that door shall never again open.  BH01644


He was among those who were in the presence of the Throne when the Dawning-Place of Revelation was in the land of Iraq, and who would recite the verses of God before the Throne at eventide and at dawn.   BH03900


At the time of our exile the most noteworthy man, the first man of Persia, was Mirza Aqa Khan, the prime minister...What a pity it is that such a noteworthy family should be annihilated because of the acceptance of such a faith!  ABU0980

What hardship, grief or affliction could be greater than that which occurred at the time when the Blessed Beauty was exiled from Tihran? Hearts of stone were melted. All the relatives were weeping and lamenting. All were in utter despair.  ABU1755

"Whither is the Ancient Beauty gone, O most great House of God, He through Whom God hath made thee the cynosure of an adoring world, and proclaimed thee to be the sign of His remembrance unto all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth?"  BH01536

During Our migration from Iraq, We informed most of the servants about what had appeared and would appear, such that were the revealed Tablets to be read, all would testify to that which has flowed in this Tablet from the pen of the Truthful, the Trustworthy.   BH00312

And when this Wronged One went forth out of His prison, We journeyed, in pursuance of the order of His Majesty the Shah -- may God, exalted be He, protect him -- to Iraq, escorted by officers in the service of the esteemed and honored governments of Persia and Russia. After Our arrival, We revealed, as a copious rain, by the aid of God and His Divine Grace and mercy, Our verses, and sent them to various parts of the world. We exhorted all men, and particularly this people, through Our wise counsels and loving admonitions, and forbade them to engage in sedition, quarrels, disputes and conflict. As a result of this, and by the grace of God, waywardness and folly were changed into piety and understanding, and weapons converted into instruments of peace. BH00005

Give praise unto God for having chosen you specially for Himself, inasmuch as when the Sun of Pre-existence withdrew from its native land, it rose from the horizon of Iraq, your land. This is of His bounty unto you, wherewith nothing in the heavens and earth can compare.   BH00610

The Blessed Beauty exalted the Cause in Baghdad. Manifestly and boldly, He stood before the whole of mankind and peoples, and subsequent to those bewildering occurrences and upon the arrival of the royal decree, Baha'u'llah departed from Baghdad with utmost majesty and splendor.   ABU1033

For eleven years we lived in Baghdad. The heat of that place was very intense, yet we were most happy, because we were assisted in serving at the Holy Threshold. One cannot experience a greater amount of heat than in Baghdad; at that time the summers were unbearable. We were strangers and penniless, yet our joy was supreme.  ABU2292

Consider the foolishness of the governments of Iran and the Ottoman Empire in how they banished His Holiness Baha'u'llah from Iran to Baghdad and then to Istanbul, Rumelia, and 'Akka. Their purpose was to obliterate the Cause of Baha'u'llah; yet, they performed the greatest service to His Faith by surrendering the Holy Land to Him, without recognizing it.  ABU1689

Perchance, God willing, Iran may become the envy of all other nations of the world. Though this noble purpose - namely the sacred glory of the government and the prosperity of the country - may not be fully achieved at present, yet through the justice of the just sovereign, the endeavor of the accomplished minister, and the sincerity of the subjects, the foundation of this mighty edifice shall be laid.  AB11130

"And when the appointed hour of His Revelation struck on this promised Day, the veils of destiny were rent asunder and the divine decree was fulfilled with the departure of the Luminary of the heaven of eternity from the city of Baghdad. This came to pass by reason of what the hands of the malicious had wrought against this Light-a Light that hath outshone every other in its sacred and wondrous splendour."  BH00379

After a long time, he was sent from the city of his residence to foreign countries. For many years in Baghdad at every moment a new arrow was darted toward his holy breast, and at every instant a sword was bent on his pure body. At no instant was there any hope for safety and security, and the enemies, with utmost dexterity, were attacking the blessed soul from all sides, and he, alone, personally resisted them all.   ABU1887

After imprisoning the Blessed Perfection, the government decided to banish him to Baghdad thinking that through this banishment the root of the Cause would be destroyed. As it took one month to go from Tehran to Baghdad, it was thought by the people that all trace of the cause would be lost; on the contrary, the Cause of God became more powerful, his words more widely spread, his proclamation more generally heard and the power of his Cause the stronger   ABU0740

For instance, when Baha'u'llah was exiled from Persia with Abdu'l-Baha and the rest of His family, they traveled the long road from Tihran to Baghdad, passing through many towns and villages. During the whole of that journey and distance they did not meet a single believer in the Cause for which they had been banished. At that time very little was known about it in any part of the world. Even in Baghdad there was but one believer who had been taught by Baha'u'llah Himself in Persia. Later on, two or three others appeared.   ABU0652


The Blessed Beauty in all circumstances has given us the way to behave, explained the mode of our conduct and behavior. Let us meditate over the calamities and hardships of the Blessed Beauty, as well as over His severance and Fortitude, for He was two years in the Kurdish mountains, living solitary and alone in a cave, supplicating all night long. The [Kurds] came around at night and heard His Voice but they knew not who this Person was. Later they discovered who He was. When He came back to Baghdad He had on a very old garment. He had one Kurdish jacket, sleeveless and made of coarse fleece. In this manner he entered our house.  ABU1138

No matter could be more significant than the banishment of the Blessed Beauty from Iran. This caused everyone to despair. Nasiri'd-Din Shah and his ministers said this Cause was now obliterated. There were only a few believers in Kashan, Qazvin and Isfahan. All were in despair, and yet what great wisdom it contained. Were it not for this, the Cause would not have been exalted in Baghdad, the Word of God would not have been upraised, the fame of the Cause would not have reached all regions, the call of God's Cause would not have encompassed the world, these regions would not have been illumined, and the rays of the Sun of Truth would not have reached America. All these were the wisdom of that exile.  ABU1032

Among the matters that outwardly caused great sorrow, making the friends weep blood, yet inwardly brought joy upon joy, was the banishment of the Blessed Beauty from Iran. The enemies were in the utmost joy and gladness while the friends were in complete despair and disappointment. All were convinced that with the Blessed Beauty's departure from Iran, the Cause would be completely forgotten and obliterated, for there remained but a handful of believers-most had been martyred, their pure blood had stained the earth, and if any believers remained they were in complete hiding. From Tehran to Baghdad, we did not meet a single believer on the road; in thirty stages of the journey, not one soul. Yet it was the Blessed Beauty's departure that caused the exaltation of God's Word in Baghdad. And if there were any among the friends, they were extremely hidden. From Tehran to Baghdad we came, and there was not a single believer along the way. Throughout the journey, not a single soul was there. Now it was the departure of the Blessed Beauty that caused the Word of God to be exalted in Baghdad and the fame of God's Cause to be spread abroad. The hearts of the enemies were troubled, the hearts of the friends became hopeful, souls were gladdened, and all the friends were filled with joy and delight. This was because they remained steadfast, as new souls entered beneath the shadow of the Cause, and throughout all regions of Iran new believers appeared. Had this exile not occurred, this joy and glory would not have been attained. Had He not graced Baghdad with His presence, the Cause would have been obliterated. The blessed presence in Baghdad was a second breath that bestowed new life upon the friends.  ABU0239

Several Baha'is had a small hall room. One could hardly move in it. But as they did not care for these outward comforts, having the joy of heaven in their hearts, when toward the evening they returned from their work; all night they were singing, chanting communes, so that even the neighbors who had every comfort envied them. Then, a Persian, who outwardly claimed to be a Baha'i arrived in Baghdad. As he was going to stay only a few days - not desiring to rent a room - he came and stayed with our friends in the small crowded room. Of course they did not mind him. They hailed him as a brother, expecting that he will also enter in the spirit of their inner joy. But no, he started to criticize and make remarks on their crowded room and its humble appearance. One of these men who was a simple, Kashani composed a line of poetry, addressed to him. It was very funny but to the point. The translation: "O thou our honored guest! God has given unto us an imperial palace! Look at its lofty dome! I wonder! What is the cause of thy rankling."  ABU2027

During His final days in Tihran, prior to the journey to Baghdad, some of the believers, such as Muhammad Taqi Khan, Sulayman Khan, Jinab-i-'Azim, Mirza 'Ali-Muhammad, Mulla 'Abdu'l-Fattah, and Mirza 'Abdu'l-Vahhab--all of whom were to be later martyred--as well as Mirza Husayn Kirmani and many other souls, perceived that Baha'u'llah occupied a transcendent station and became convinced that He was a Manifestation of God. Baha'u'llah had composed an ode from which the fragrance of a heavenly station could be perceived, the opening of which reads: "'Tis from Our rapture that the clouds of realms above are raining down." All the friends would recite that ode with the utmost fervour and attraction, and all accepted its purport--not a soul voiced an objection. That ode was indeed most enthralling. The first person who recognized the sublimity and holiness of Baha'u'llah and became certain that He would manifest a momentous Cause was Mulla 'Abdu'l-Karim-i-Qazvini, whom the Bab had named Mirza Ahmad. He was the intermediary between the Bab and Baha'u'llah and was aware of the truth of the matter. After coming to Baghdad from Persia, Baha'u'llah declared to a certain extent the nature of His mission in the ninth year after the appearance of the Bab, and became known among the friends as the appearance of Husayn. For the people of Persia believed that the appearance of the promised Mahdi must be followed by that of Husayn, that is, of Imam Husayn the martyr, to whom they are indeed most attached and bear the greatest allegiance. Now, in all His Books and Scriptures, the Bab heralded that which was to transpire in the year nine. Among them, there abound expressions such as: "In the year nine ye shall attain unto all good." And such statements as "In the year nine ye shall …", and "Then ye shall …", and "Then ye shall …" are numerous. Likewise, He says: "Wait thou until nine will have elapsed from the time of the Bayan. Then exclaim: 'Blessed, therefore, be God …'" In sum, the tidings of the Bab regarding the year nine are such as to defy all description. Nevertheless certain souls faltered, among them Mirza Yahya, Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani, and a few others. The Sermon of Salutations was revealed in the year nine, and likewise the commentary on the verse of the Qur'an "All food was allowed to the children of Israel except what Israel forbade itself" issued forth in that same year.  AB00097

When the Blessed Beauty returned from Kurdistan, the friends in Iran were few in number, and Iraq was frozen and lifeless - no sound, no call. And if there was anyone in the surroundings, they were in utmost despair, fear and caution. But upon arrival in Baghdad, the Most Great Name opened the door, issued a universal call, raised the divine summons, and the fame of God's Cause spread far and wide. The leaders and clergy of all religions would attend His presence day and night, with continuous questions and answers, all acknowledging satisfaction with the responses.   AB00050


