

During the time Baha'o'llah resided in Mesopotamia he displayed marvelous grandeur and power, notwithstanding the enmity and opposition of the Shah and the noblemen of Persia. Learned men of all nations sought him and were humble in his presence. They received from his holy tongue answers to their questions, and not a single soul left his blessed presence unsatisfied. When the ulama saw that Baha'o'llah exercised such influence in Bagdad they caused him to be exiled to Constantinople. However, he was sent, not as other exiles, but with honorable escort, and the officials en route, including the governor general, showed him great respect. He remained four months in Constantinople. When it was discovered that he was gaining converts he was sent to Adrianople, where he spent five years. Then, at the instigation of the Shah of Persia, he was banished to the fortress of Acca.  ABU0327

When the Blessed Beauty left Tehran and when He departed from Baghdad for the Holy Land, it was so devastating that the friends shed tears of blood. Now it has become evident what mysteries were concealed in that event and what victories lay in store; even the prophecies of the holy books regarding the Holy Land and the promised Manifestation were fulfilled through that banishment.   ABU1303

What outward relation exists between Shiraz and Teheran, Bagdad and Constantinople, Adrianople and Acca and Haifa! God worked patiently step by step through these various cities according to his own definite, eternal plan   ABU2955

The Blessed Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - was exiled from Iran to Iraq, from Iraq to Constantinople, thence to Rumelia, the Land of Mystery, and from there to the Most Great Prison  AB01183

The Amir-Nizam asked Us one day to see him. He received Us cordially, and revealed the purpose for which he had summoned Us to his presence. 'I am well aware,' he gently insinuated, 'of the nature and influence of your activities, and am firmly convinced that were it not for the support and assistance which you have been extending to Mulla Husayn and his companions, neither he nor his band of inexperienced students would have been capable of resisting for seven months the forces of the imperial government. The ability and skill with which you have managed to direct and encourage those efforts could not fail to excite my admiration. I have been unable to obtain any evidence whereby I could establish your complicity in this affair. I feel it a pity that so resourceful a person should be left idle and not be given an opportunity to serve his country and sovereign. The thought has come to me to suggest to you that you visit Karbila in these days when the Shah is contemplating a journey to Isfahan. It is my intention to be enabled, on his return, to confer upon you the position of Amir-Divan, a function you could admirably discharge.' We vehemently protested against such accusations, and refused to accept the position he hoped to offer Us. A few days after that interview, We left Tihran for Karbila.  BHU0018

Sultan Abdu'l-'Aziz banished Us to this country in the greatest abasement, and since his object was to destroy Us and humble Us, whenever the means of glory and ease presented themselves, We did not reject them. BHU0048

Then they turned with blackened faces against faces of light, and banished Us from the Land of Mystery and made Us enter 'Akka. It is the most desolate of the cities of the world. When We entered the prison, its doors were guarded by souls who had never inhaled the fragrance of faith from the Egypt of certitude, nor had the breezes of the All-Glorious ever wafted upon their hearts. Three successive months passed and We did not enter a bath. Thus did it befall the Youth at the hands of those who denied God's favor after its descent. BH02263

He was repeatedly plundered and exiled - from Iran to Baghdad, thence to Istanbul, then to Rumelia, and from Rumelia He was banished to 'Akka. He never knew rest.  ABU0223

The Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) was repeatedly exiled, taken from land to land and country to country.  AB00302

Verily in the departure of the Ancient Beauty from the Land of Mystery and His entry into the Most Great Prison are signs for the nations, but they do not understand.  BH11830

Who was Himself exiled from Iran to Iraq, from Iraq to the Great City (Constantinople), from thence to Rumelia (Adrianople), and from Rumelia to this afflictive prison.  AB02655

Again He was sent an exile to Iraq, whence He was banished from land to land, until at last He was incarcerated, for no less than twenty five years, in the fortress-town of Akka.  AB02531

One day He was hurried barefoot in chains from Shimiran to Tehran, spending four months in prison with fetters and shackles, every moment under threat of sword and arrow. Sometimes He was exiled to Iraq, sometimes He wandered Kurdistan, finding companionship with wild beasts and birds of the wilderness. For a long time and many years in Baghdad He was surrounded by hostile forces and in severest trials and tribulations. Every day brought a new affliction and every night a grievous calamity. He found not a moment's ease or rest. Then He was exiled to the great city and became the target of grave calumnies. The most prominent and distinguished men all sought to humiliate Him and the pillars of nations thought to destroy Him. Then they banished Him to the Land of Mystery where He was immersed in great hardships and painful torment. One who had been nurtured from the beginning in the embrace of His loving-kindness and shown every kind of tender care rose up with utmost hatred and, like a host of calamities, attacked. He intended to shed His pure blood and like a serpent bit that sacred form, then began to wail and lament, raised cries of being wronged, claimed to be oppressed and victimized, let out moans and cries, began to sob and wail. Like Joseph's envious brothers he cast that Joseph of the Egypt of existence into the dark pit of the well, then raised cries and laments, wept and wailed, and "came to their father in the evening, weeping." Then he became intimate with strangers and friendly with enemies, attributed sedition and corruption to the Peerless Beauty and placed forged documents in the hands of the malicious, so that the candle of the Concourse on High would be extinguished and the ways of the Supreme Concourse forgotten, the Sun of Unity would set and the Sun of Truth decline, the verse of guidance be abrogated and the festival of the Day of the Covenant be annulled. As a result, the means for the Most Great Prison were arranged and grievous calamity occurred. The Wronged One of the horizons fell captive to the people of discord and every hour brought new trials and tribulations. All doors were shut and all paths cut off. Arrows of cruelty rained down unceasingly from all countries of the world like rain, and swords of malice from the hosts of humanity struck that defenseless Form. AB00356

The governor summoned me, and when I went to him he read to me the text of the Sultan's Farman which had arrived by telegraph. Its contents stated that we were to be imprisoned perpetually.  ABU1266

When we first arrived in 'Akka and entered the army barracks, the government authorities informed us one day that an individual representing Baha'u'llah should go and hear the Sultan's farman.  ABU1607

Thou wert with thy Lord in times of hardship and tribulation until thou wert exiled with Him from the Land of Ta by reason of what the hands of the wicked had wrought. And thou didst arrive with thy Lord in Zawra, the place which the All-Merciful made the seat of His throne for successive years. I bear witness that thou didst believe in God and acknowledge what the Tongue of Grandeur uttered amongst all created things, and didst drink the choice sealed wine when its seal was broken by His Name, the Self-Subsisting. And thou didst migrate once again from Iraq with the Luminary of the horizons, and stood before His face morning and evening until thou didst arrive with thy Lord in the Land of Mystery which was named Adrianople, and from thence to the Most Great Prison. And thou wert with Him for numbered years, and present before the Wronged One morning and evening, until thou didst soar on the wings of longing unto God, the Lord of the Day of the Covenant  BH02247

Of a certainty, it is difficult to imagine its full effect at the present, but for those endowed with discernment and possessing absolute certitude, such conception poses no obstacle and [its realization] is manifest as the sun.   ABU1995

Consider how He was driven from His native land with what tribulation and persecution - from Tehran to Iraq, from Iraq to the renowned city, thence to the land of Bulgaria, and thence to this Prison of tribulation. Four times was He rendered homeless.  AB01351

It behoves us to ponder awhile that if the emigration of Abraham from Ur to Aleppo in Syria produced such results, what will be the effect of the exile of Baha'u'llah from Tihran to Baghdad, and from thence to Constantinople, to Rumelia and to the Holy Land!   AB00556

From the wildernesses of Iraq He was banished to the city and again after more years to the land of mystery Adrianople where He was the object of hatred from both sides. Eventually in utter humility bearing unnumbered hardships He was banished to the Most Great Prison.  AB00913

Finally imprisoned in Iran, after plunder and pillage and tribulations beyond endurance, He was exiled to Iraq... Again He was banished to Bulgaria, and after some time was confined in the Most Great Prison, where for nearly twenty-five years He remained the Wronged One of the horizons.  AB00414

After the Sun of Truth had set below the horizon of Iraq, the people of discord surrounded Him, bound Him in chains, and assailed Him with permissible spears and poisoned arrows. So He left the City of Peace and hastened to the shelter of the tents, and dwelt near the Most Great Prison in safety and peace.  AB11807

Later, when the Blessed Beauty was exiled, the friends were grief-stricken and disheartened while the enemies rejoiced, saying 'Praise be to God, Baha'u'llah was exiled.' But had the Blessed Beauty not been exiled, the Tablet to the King and the Tablet to Ra'is would not have been revealed and the Cause of God would not have been spread abroad.  ABU2218

Again they banished Him to Constantinople, and from Constantinople a third time to Rumelia, and afterwards sent Him to the most desolate of the world's fortresses, the citadel of Akka, where they imprisoned Him. No worse place for exile and imprisonment could be imagined than this, nor could there be a more severe banishment than to be exiled four times and finally imprisoned in a fortress like Akka.  ABU0090

Then they perceived that the Cause spread more and more rapidly. The fame became more widely circulated. The Teachings of the Blessed Perfection became more pronounced. Then the Chief of Persia determined to expel Baha'u'llah from Baghdad. He arrived in Constantinople. Then the Persian ministers succeeded in having Him banished from Constantinople. A fourth time was He banished, from Roumelia to the Most Great Prison.   ABU0198

We stayed four months in Istanbul and (during that time) I never went anywhere or associated with anyone. After four months, a decree was issued to the effect that we must go to Edirne. We sought to know the reason for this, and various pretexts were advanced, but it became known to us that the real purpose was to carry out the wishes of the Iranian ambassador. I complied (with the decree) and we arrived in Edirne.  BH01047

The departure of the Most Beauteous One from among the people occurred at noon on Friday, the twenty-second day of the month of Shawwal. For some time there had been talk of departure, and the will of the Pre-existent Sovereign had been fixed and firm upon the command to depart, but owing to the distress of these few servants it had been postponed until that mentioned day. But such lamentation and outcry arose from the beloved ones that a second resurrection was raised up--indeed, it was far greater than the resurrection in Iraq at the time of departure, and the cries of the servants were more intense.  BH02947

He was put in chains and thrown into a subterranean dungeon. His extensive hereditary possessions were entirely plundered, He was four times exiled from land to land, and in the end He came to abide in the Most Great Prison.... At last they said, "So long as this man is in Persia there will be no peace or tranquillity. He should be banished, that Persia might again find rest." They subjected Baha'u'llah, therefore, to severe hardships so that He would be forced to seek permission to leave Persia, and they imagined that the lamp of the Cause would be thereby extinguished. But this persecution produced the contrary effect: The Cause grew in stature and its flame waxed brighter. It had until then spread only within Persia; this caused it to spread to other regions. Later they said, "Iraq is too close to Persia; we must dispatch Him to distant lands." Thus the Persian government persisted until Baha'u'llah was exiled from Iraq to Constantinople. But again they saw that He did not falter in the least. They said, "Constantinople is a crossroads for divers peoples and nations, and there are many Persians there." Hence they took further steps and had Him exiled to Adrianople. But that flame gathered still more intensity and the Cause grew even greater in stature. Finally the Persians said, "None of these locations was a place of humiliation: He must be sent to a place where He will be disgraced and subjected to trials and persecutions, and where His kindred and followers will suffer the direst afflictions." Thus they chose the prison city of 'Akka, which was reserved for rebels, murderers, thieves, and highway robbers, and in this wise they made Him associate with such people.  AB00029

When they exiled us from Persia, from Teheran, to Baghdad, there are thirty stages -- in these thirty stages we did not find one Bahai. We did not meet one. And now in every one of these stages there are great numbers of Bahai friends.   ABU0236
First He was banished to Baghdad, then to Constantinople, then to Adrianople, and finally to the prison-city of Akka in Palestine. The government then strove against Baha'u'llah; they banished him to Baghdad, and then to Constantinople and then to Roumania.  ABU3765
 
