During the days of the Blessed Perfection we celebrated this National New year's day with great elaboration and festivity ….. Everybody was in the utmost joy and happiness, attraction and hopefulness. The Newyear's day is a day of pleasure and delight. Although in those days we were prisoners, yet according to our ability the room of Baha'u'llah was decorated with roses and flowers and there were a variety of candies and bonbons which were distributed amongst the friends with his own hands  ABU0731

During the twenty-five years that the Blessed Beauty resided in 'Akka, there was never an outbreak of cholera. Throughout Greater Syria cholera became prevalent four times, even reaching the gates of 'Akka, but it never entered the city, and all the physicians were astonished that 'Akka, which was known as the home of diseases, remained untouched by the illness while other places with better climate were affected. Until His ascension occurred, there was no cholera anywhere, but then it broke out in 'Akka.  ABU1442

On the morning of the blessed Friday We proceeded from the Mansion and entered the Garden...Upon Our being seated, Radiyih, upon her be My glory, attained Our presence on thy behalf, laid the table of God's bounty and in thy name extended hospitality to all present.  BH03509

Concerning what thou didst mention about the gathering of the loved ones in a special council for the conduct of affairs, this hath been accepted. In truth it is necessary. At the beginning of the entry of the Wronged One into the military barracks in the city of Akka, the establishment of a council was decided upon. However, due to changes of location and variations in movement and rest, it was postponed.  BH10993

O My Name! We have lifted the decree of killing lest anyone slay another or oppose another soul, yet despite this supreme prohibition what was destined came to pass. Thy Lord is indeed the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Those who were killed in this land ['Akka], by God, were slain by the swords of their own deeds - to this testifies every informed sage. Thou knowest how the fire of corruption was kindled and how they violated the sanctity of God and His chosen ones, until they were seized for their evil deeds and words. He is verily the Just, the Wise. We protected them for numbered years while they persisted in hypocrisy to such an extent that We sat alone in the house, closed the doors and drew the curtains. Then the fire of opposition intensified until God seized them by His authority. He is verily the Powerful, the Mighty.  BH00861

For nine years he [Baha'u'llah] did not see a green leaf. He loved nature. His sensibilities and powers of observation were miraculous! the tips of his fingers were the most sensitive parts of his holy Temple. The power of his smell was most keen. If he walked along this avenue although his mind was occupied with other thoughts, he would on his arrival home relate most profitably every small detail of the throbbing life. Often he would order us to go and prepare tea five or six miles away from the city, because one could see there a patch of green or one pine. He would cut the cucumber into two pieces and smell only its odor and enjoy it as though he has eaten it. While dictating Tablets to his Secretary at a rapid fire rate, he had papers in his hand writing on some entirely different topic and now and then carry an interesting conversation with those who were present and suddenly he would raise his head and point to us from the window a wonderful, tall, noble tree in a garden far away. One occupation would not prevent him from attending to other things. ABU2002

When we were imprisoned in the Military barrack of Acca there was a small, primitive bath in which the Blessed Perfection took occasional bath. When the time arrived for our departure from the barrack we rented a very small house in the town. It was a two story house, having two rooms on the lower and four rooms on the upper floor but they were very small indeed. On the other hand or party was composed of many people and we wondered how could all these souls be accommodated in this small house. Finally 13 of us agreed to live in one room. they lived and slept and worked in this one small room. We lived in this house well-nigh for 20 years. It so happened that although the house was small yet it contained some sort of bath and so the Blessed Perfection could use it as often as he wished. At the end of 20 years we rented a much larger house but it had no bath. I went to Baha'u'llah and asked permission to build one. The more I begged the stronger was his refusal. I said only with fifty pounds a little, comfortable bath can be build but he did not give his consent. Finally a month passed and I was quite worried. At last I went to an Arab friend of mine and borrowed from him £20 at 2 per cent. This money I took to a merchant who was in former time a grain-dealer but now out of work. I told him We will enter into a partnership, the Capital from me, the labor from you. With this fund you will deal four months in grain. After paying off all the expenses of rent etc; and receiving your monthly salary, we will divide the net profit; one third for you and two third for me. We entered into this agreement and he engaged in business. After four months we cleared our accounts. I payed the debt with its two per cent; the merchant received his one third of the net profit, all the other expenses defrayed and 80 pounds left in the balance for me. With that sum, then I built a bath in the house which is kept intact up to the present day.  ABU3338


The Blessed Perfection always loved this specie of roses. Large bowls containing the same, decorated the table of his room all the time... Baha'u'llah loved perfumery very much and he always used the attar of the rose.   ABU1649

One day I went to the Holy Presence of the Blessed Beauty and said: 'The palace at Mazra'ih is ready for you, and a carriage to drive you there.'...I took the carriage the next day and drove with Him to the palace.  ABU0583


When We entered, We found some of the loved ones standing by the door and others waiting in prison. We glorified God before their faces and sat for a time  BH06667


When we reached the gate of Akka, He said: "How quiet it is. No one is to be found."   ABU3151

For several days We have worn thy cloak and gone forth, that is, from Our residence to the countryside   BH07418

For some time we, these servants, in view of what had been revealed in God's Tablets, had been expecting this tribulation of the Day of Adversity until the appointed time arrived. At the eighth hour of the day, the friends of God who were in the market were all arrested, and suddenly soldiers surrounded the Most Pure House and likewise stood guard at the doors of other homes of the friends, and conditions became so severe that women and children were prevented from entering or leaving, and that night most went without food. Outwardly it was not at all clear what they intended. Some said we would be sent to the Sudan toward Abyssinia, some said we would be drowned in the sea, and there were various other claims. What was announced by the government was that they were ordered to take us to Gallipoli and then await further instructions, and they were extremely rushed to depart.   BH00583

The consuls of that city (Adrianople) gathered in the presence of this Youth at the hour of His departure and expressed their desire to aid Him. They, verily, evinced towards Us manifest affection.  BH11462

In the Land of Mystery too, we would meet with some and grant audience to others. But in the Most Great Prison we have met with no one and have completely closed the doors of association.  BHU0011

God desired your departure from the Land of Mystery lest you hear the great terror in the days when the polytheists seized the gates of the House and the Ancient Beauty departed from it due to what the hands of those who disbelieved in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, had wrought.  BH11842

His holiness Baha'u'llah had a beautiful habit which was kept up till the last years of His Life. Every evening after having partaken of his dinner he would retire inside of His mosquito-net and then send for all the members of the Blessed Household to gather around and converse with him. This delightful nightly gathering of the family before sleep was an essential feature of the spiritual system of education fostered and upheld by the Blessed Perfection. Generally the meeting lasted one hour during which time he exhorted his hearers and tried to teach them in manifold ways, relating stories, uttering pithy remarks, cracking jokes and expressing truths laconically. In this manner he intended to instruct us but there were some who could not appreciate the efficacy and beauty of this method and took the strange notion in their heads that this was purely a nice way of passing the time in social intercourse. As they did not realize that Baha'u'llah's stories and sayings on these occasions were meant for our moral education and culture they were not benefitted therefrom. They listened to His stories and for the moment enjoyed them but missed the lessons and took them not to heart.  ABU0283

That which was present at that moment before His face was but a piece of bread and a small amount of cheese...Days passed over Us when nothing was present before Us with which to feed ourselves...Once We wore silk after it was presented before Us, and once We found no garment to change into   BH02739

We left the House, proceeding toward the garden, and on the way We encountered servants who had believed in God, the Single, the All-Informed. There accompanied Us a certain number of those who had acknowledged what God had testified in His Noble Book. We journeyed until We entered the place and drank Chinese tea.   BH09251

On the morning of the blessed Friday We proceeded from the Mansion and entered the Garden. Every tree uttered a word, and every leaf sang a melody...Upon Our being seated, Radiyih, upon her be My glory, attained Our presence on thy behalf, laid the table of God's bounty and in thy name extended hospitality to all present.  BH03509

In those days, all Tablets were revealed and sent down in the blessed handwriting, or He would be engaged in writing, or during the time individuals attained His presence, the blessed time was spent in speaking. And when He would become very tired, He would take a brief walk before noon or sunset, either mounted or on foot.   ABU2559



How pleasant it was when we were in prison, when in times of hardship no one would come and we were at peace. I would write letters to the East and West. I planted a garden and built a wooden house within it in 'Akka. Someone thought they would cast us into the sea or send us to the Sahara of Fezzan, but I was resigned. I planted trees, and they laughed at me saying I was taking needless trouble.  ABU1214

He lived very simply and economically regarding his own welfare. He had no return from his property at that time. His property was confined to half the village of Adasieh. It was in ruins and yielded no revenues. Now it is restored and we get some revenues. Baha'u'llah owned vast properties in Persia which were confiscated; also in Baghdad, but they were taken from Him toward the end of our stay. All were sacked and confiscated by the Turkish Government.   ABU0211

One day while he was walking in the house in the course of his conversation he said 'It is now nine years that my eyes have not beheld one blade of grass.' He loved the green pastures, verdant plaines blossoming trees and flowering spots; especially the prairie of Acca which was wonderfully green and carpeted with wild flowers during the months of spring. For this reason he often remarked: 'the city is the world of bodies; the country is the world of spirits.'   ABU0246

First they secured for us the Mansion of Mazra'ih where we resided, and then the Mansion of Bahji. And they have arisen to serve the Cause and been so confirmed that they have not even the opportunity to come to the Mansion of Bahji weekly, while we commune with the friends and are occupied with the revelation of Tablets and verses  BHU0008

When the time arrived for our departure from the barrack we rented a very small house in the town. It was a two story house, having two rooms on the lower and four rooms on the upper floor but they were very small indeed. On the other hand our party was composed of many people and we wondered how could all these souls be accommodated in this small house. Finally 13 of us agreed to live in one room. They lived and slept and worked in this one small room. We lived in this house well-nigh for 20 years.   ABU1269

One day I went to His Holy Presence and said: 'The palace is ready and also the carriage to drive you there.' At that time there was no carriage in 'Akka or Haifa. He replied: 'I will not go. I am a prisoner.' Later on I requested again. Again He refused. I went so far as to beg Him a third time. He said: 'No.'...The following day he rode in the carriage. I was also in His Holy Presence. We left the city. No one objected. We went to that green spot. From that time on He was either there, in 'Akka in Haifa, or at Bahji.   ABU0211


The owner of this house was a native of Beirut. He himself used to live here. When the government gave permission for us to leave the barracks we wanted to rent a house. His partner had built a palace outside Akka and his house (adjoining this one) became empty. We wanted to take that house and the partner was willing, but when the owner heard of this he became furiously angry, saying, 'How can I be content to live with those strangers. How can I have trust and confidence in them?' His partner said, 'I trust them. These are not people to be afraid of. If they do not pay the rent I will be responsible for them.' The Russian Consul at that time, Mr. Urens, was a relative of the owner of the house. He was a honorary interpreter in the government service. (In former times certain people, for the sake of the honor, used to work for the government without salary.) He said to the owner of the house, 'You do not know these people. They are not highway robbers and they have not been guilty of any treachery to the nation. They have been sent here because of some religious matter. Rest assured about this.' Notwithstanding this the owner of the house was still distrustful and dissatisfied, until a Greek doctor in Akka who was also related to him, implored on their behalf, saying, 'The Consul and I will be responsible.' At last they satisfied him and we came and lived in the small house adjoining this. The owner of the house carefully nailed up the doors connecting the two houses, both in the upper and lower floors, so that there should be no going and coming between the two houses. Less than a fortnight afterwards we heard a knocking at the door. On opening it we found the wife of the owner of the house who had come to visit the ladies. She asked, 'Why do you not come to visit us?' They answered, 'You have nailed up the doors between the houses.' She said, 'Ah! We did not know you, at first, but now the doors must be opened, both upstairs and downstairs, and you can fetch water (from our house).' ABU0717

The Blessed Beauty did not make any more public speeches after leaving Baghdad and Adrianople.   ABU3294

Then they turned with blackened faces against faces of light, and banished Us from the Land of Mystery and made Us enter 'Akka. It is the most desolate of the cities of the world. When We entered the prison, its doors were guarded by souls who had never inhaled the fragrance of faith from the Egypt of certitude, nor had the breezes of the All-Glorious ever wafted upon their hearts. Three successive months passed and We did not enter a bath. Thus did it befall the Youth at the hands of those who denied God's favor after its descent. BH02263

Later, when the Blessed Beauty was exiled, the friends were grief-stricken and disheartened while the enemies rejoiced, saying 'Praise be to God, Baha'u'llah was exiled.' But had the Blessed Beauty not been exiled, the Tablet to the King and the Tablet to Ra'is would not have been revealed and the Cause of God would not have been spread abroad.  ABU2218

The governor summoned me, and when I went to him he read to me the text of the Sultan's Farman which had arrived by telegraph. Its contents stated that we were to be imprisoned perpetually.  ABU1266

When we first arrived in 'Akka and entered the army barracks, the government authorities informed us one day that an individual representing Baha'u'llah should go and hear the Sultan's farman. The Blessed Beauty sent me to Government House as His representative. First they put me where the guilty ones are placed. Then the public speaker went behind a podium and read the royal decree, which was in Turkish. In essence, it said that the family of Baha'u'llah would be imprisoned in 'Akka forever and that they would not have the right to leave the city. After hearing this edict I laughed. Those present were quite surprised and asked me, 'Why do you laugh?' I said, 'This passage has no meaning. If we are to remain in the city forever, we must also live forever. But we are not going to live eternally.'  ABU1607

When we came to Akka there were severe hardships  ABU3024

Association of ideas is a deep psychological phenomenon. Nowhere does my heart truly rest save in this room where the Blessed Beauty spent His days and nights for many years. When I sit there alone how vividly the living picture is brought before my mind! In the evenings, after I go to bed I lay awake for hours, thinking rapidly over the miraculous events of this Cause, how we were at first brought to Acca and imprisoned in the Barrack, how the breast of Baha'u'llah became the target for the arrows of oppression, how He suffered all these ignominies for our sake, how His Celestial Faith shone bright and luminous through untold miseries and trials and how He conquered the hearts of men! ABU2019

At the beginning of arrival in the Most Great Prison in the military barracks, His blessed word, exalted be He: "The River Jordan has joined with the Most Great Sea" etc. Although for this blessed verse which was sent down from the heaven of divine will there are many meanings, yet one manifestation from the sun of its meanings dawned after the acquisition of this land, for this new land was adorned with the ornament of God's Name and is near to the River Jordan - and this is the river that was recorded and mentioned in the divine Books of old, and perhaps it will join [with the Sea] in the future as well.  BH07445

Thou art the first one to attain the divine presence in His Most Great Prison.  BH11686

I was in a Turkish prison forty years but every day was a day of perfect joy.   ABU3330

Upon Our arrival at this Spot, We chose to designate it as the Most Great Prison.  BH02333


thou didst migrate with the Wronged One until imprisonment ended in the Most Great Prison.  BH02600

The Most Great Sea was the Blessed Beauty, meaning the Blessed Beauty came to these shores  ABU2722

We arrived at the fortress of 'Akka with seventy souls, and it was the most desolate of all lands.   BH10174

Through His complete power and conquering might, hath transformed the prison of 'Akka into the Most Exalted Paradise.   BH02044

the banishment of the Sacred Beauty led to the diffusion of the light of His divine Revelation throughout all regions.   AB04651

Therefore the King of Persia, Nasser-Ud-Din, Shah, endeavored until he succeeded in having him transported to the prison of Acca.   ABU1343


He hath transformed the circumstances of imprisonment. In truth, He hath adorned hell itself with the ornaments of the paradise of Eden.  BH03637

the gates of the Prison were opened and the Wronged One went forth by a command before which neither the heavens nor the earth can stand.   BH01402

Then they sent Him to the prison of Akka but to no avail, rather in the prison of Akka He raised the banner of His teachings in all regions.   ABU0250

when the Wronged One was imprisoned in Akka. Thou didst enter and behold, and didst hear the Call when it was raised between earth and heaven.   BH03248

Thou wert with the Truth and didst migrate with Him until thou didst enter this Prison - this station concerning which the sects have differed.  BH06783

the fortress which Thou hast made a prison for the Manifestation of Thyself... Thy most sweet call which hath been raised from the direction of Thy prison   BH02316

When they banished the Blessed Beauty to Baghdad and Akka, they were certain that this Cause would be completely obliterated and no trace of it would remain   ABU1552

Then they turned with blackened faces toward radiant faces and drove us from the Land of Mystery and brought us to Akka, which is the most ruined of all cities.  BH10170

Glory be to Him Who hath made me a prisoner in this land which hath been named the Crimson Spot in the Book of Names and the Most Great Prison in a glorious Tablet.   BH05761

It was on his way to 'Akka. He Himself did not land but we all went ashore. Those who were taking care of us were quite sure we would not escape. We went and looked around.   ABU0305

we were exiled by the Turkish Government and were imprisoned in the barracks of 'Akka; Baha'u'llah occupied one room; His family and several other families were forced to occupy one room.   ABU2193

and then if He was not sent to Acca, the prophesies of the Scriptures would not have been fulfilled and the Principles of this Revelation would not have been promulgated in America and Europe.  ABU0621

They sent the Blessed Beauty from Constantinople. His cause became elevated and when they sent him to the prison for murderers and highway robbers in Akka, in that prison he raised his banner.   ABU0513

And when He was transferred from that land to the Most Great Prison, and the ruined fortress became the prison of the Beloved of the world of being, and the utmost abasement and humiliation were imposed   AB00454

Soon will they imprison Baha in the fortress of 'Akka with utmost humiliation. Verily it is the most unsightly of the world's cities in appearance, the most detestable in climate, and the most putrid in water.   BH06024

Among other things, let them consider the blessed Surih of the Temple, some portions of which were sent from the Land of Mystery to Iraq, while other parts were dispatched after arrival in the Most Great Prison.   BH11373

After arriving at the garden and renowned palace, which afforded some relief, news arrived from the prison-land that on several occasions the very prison itself had been dearer and more precious than what came after   BH01860


The Wronged One hath emerged from the prison of Akka, whereupon the Kingdom of Names was stirred and every stone cried out: "God hath fulfilled what He promised in the Book. He, verily, is the Expositor, the All-Informed."   BH05209

This is the third time that successive migrations have occurred in this supreme migration, yet none have been like unto this one, for it was undertaken with complete volition while its people were rendering the utmost service   BH03020

Hearken unto My voice from the direction of the Prison, that the call of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, may draw thee to the dawning-place of His most excellent names and bring thee nigh unto a station that hath been recorded in the Tablets.  BH11834

When the two despotic governments decided to exile us from Adrianople to Acca, there was such a manifestation of sorrow and anxiety that neither the word nor pen can describe it adequately. The floodgate of unutterable grief was set loose.  ABU0962

The enemy finally carried away as captive Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy beauty and the Revealer of Thy signs, and confined Him in the fortress-town of 'Akka, and sought to hinder Him from remembering Thee and from magnifying Thy name.  BH02536

"In the days of the Blessed Perfection this [the garden of Ridvan in 'Akka] was a place of recreation. He used to sit there (pointing) and the friends used to sit around on those seats. Words and prayers used to be revealed and they were all in the utmost of humility and submissiveness. One day I came here with the Motesareff (Governor). His holiness Baha'u'llah was here and the friends were here. He did not receive the Motesareff. He did not meet him. He did not meet me, either. He said, 'Return with the Motasereff,' and I returned."  ABU2500

Then on an Austrian vessel They proceeded toward Akka. Near that celestial city it stopped, and the Ancient Beauty came by rowboat. Four persons were prevented from accompanying Them: his honor Sayyah, Mishkin-Qalam, Aqa Muhammad-Baqir, and Aqa Abdul-Ghaffar   BH00510

Know that We have arrived in the fortress of Akka, and the heedless ones have surrounded Us from every direction. They desire to cut off the fragrant breezes of revelation from the universe, but this Youth hath not been deterred by the tribulations that have befallen Him   BH02151

Through His will, the Most Great Prison, with all its severity and confinement, became the All-Highest Paradise and the Dawning-Place of His supreme mercy. Those who were forbidden from beholding the paths, mosques, and streets of the city are now observed in complete freedom.  BH00345

We have named this prison the Most Great Prison, and assuredly this name was not given without cause. However, We have, as a token of Our grace - and verily, I am the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous - concealed its mysteries and future manifestations from the eyes of Our loved ones.   BH03090

Likewise when from Adrianople to Akka which was the prison for criminals. When this news reached various places all the friends became distraught. This calamity affected them so much that it cannot be described, and yet this became the greatest cause of the exaltation of God's Cause.   ABU0947

When we first came here we were put into the barracks. In ten or fifteen days we began to fall like leaves because of sickness. No one remained upon his feet except myself and the late Agha Riza. I used to cook a kettle of soup for them to eat in the daytime and a kettle of rice for the night.   ABU0274

Afterward, He was exiled to Iraq, or Mesopotamia, from thence to Constantinople, then transferred to Adrianople and finally to Akka in Syria. He spent twenty-four years in the prison of Akka, where He underwent the severest ordeals and privations without a day or night of relaxation and repose.  ABU0040

It was about 4 p.m. when we reached Acca. As we entered the place we found the inhabitants of Acca, without exception, sickly looking people of sallow, yellow complexion, a good many unable to walk and hence strewn on the narrow streets. Even the soldiers and officers, who possessed privileges, looked ill.   ABU2291

"We were thrown into the barrack with no permission to have intercourse with the outside world!" The Correspondent could not believe in such a cruel treatment. "Do you mean the barrack?" he exclaimed in incredulously. "The barrack where the criminals are imprisoned? Do you mean that? How is that? What was your crime?"   ABU0237

Very soon they will expel Us from this land and they will incarcerate Us there. In truth that city is decrepit, unclean; its air is bad, its waters are polluted and foul-smelling, and they wish to shut from His Face all bounties and gifts which have been ordained for His Self by God, the Omnipotent, the Almighty, the All-knowing.  BH02025

On August 5th 1868 A.D. we were exiled from Adrianople to Acca. We travelled in carriages as far as Gallipoli, guarded by a company of Turkish soldiers with their lieutenant Hassan Effendi. After spending a few days in Gallipoli we all embarked on the steamer of the Austrian Lloyd Company for Acca by way of Smyrna and Alexandria.  ABU0959

We arrived at the Most Great Prison in the city whose inhabitants were the most wicked of all people, as attesteth to this the Lord of creation in a perspicuous Book. When We arrived, We summoned all to God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds, and the call was raised from the precincts of the prison in such wise as to encompass earth and heaven.  BH05393

Through planning and giving gifts to the officers, I was able to win the entrance of some of the believers and bring them into Baha'u'llah's presence. With great kindness I dealt with a certain Bayk-bashi -- may God's bounties surround his departed soul -- and also won the affection of some other officers. At nights they would go and secretly bring in the friends.  ABU0732

Although the royal farman specifically decreed that Baha'u'llah was to be held in solitary confinement within the 'Akka fortress, in a cell, under perpetual guard; that He was never to set foot outside; that He was never even to see any of the believers -- notwithstanding such a farman, such a drastic order, His tent was raised in majesty on the heights of Mount Carmel.  AB00002

Accordingly, the clergy, or learned men of Persia, being hostile to this holy Cause, so arranged that the Blessed Perfection was sent from Adrianople (the land of Mystery) to Acre, Syria. In this prison (Acre) the flag of the Gardener of god was raised, the greatness of the Word of God appeared and the Sun of Truth shone in such a degree that all the horizons became clear.   ABU0740

Therefore he requested the local government to cast this person into a place of abasement and humiliation, to send Him to a prison of murderers, thieves and brigands, to consort with criminals, that He might fall into loss and ruin. Thus it was that He was confined to the prison of Akka, so that in a short time He and His household would be destroyed and vanish without trace.  AB00969

and to an even greater and better extent in Akka. For in Baghdad we were not outwardly imprisoned and confined, and the Cause of God had not yet attained even one-hundredth of its present fame, nor did it face even one-hundredth of its present opponents, adversaries and enemies. In the Most Great Prison we have met with no one and have completely closed the doors of association.  BHU0011

Having arrived in Acca they found there were not enough rooms in the barracks to imprison us separately so they put us all in two rooms with no furniture at all. The court of the barrack had a most gloomy aspect. There were three or four fig trees over the branches of which several ominous owls screeched all night. Every one got sick and there were neither provisions nor medicine.  ABU1242


For the Most Great Name was held prisoner and confined nine years in the fortress-town of 'Akka; and at all times, both in the barracks and afterward, from without the house, the police and farrashes had Him under constant guard. The Blessed Beauty lived in a very small house, and He never set foot outside that narrow lodging, because His oppressors kept continual watch at the door.  AB00002

This is a city that was once the most desolate of lands. God hath adorned it with this Name through which the Ancient Beauty was established upon the Most Great Throne and the mention of God was exalted between the heavens and the earth. God hath made this city the mother of cities in these regions by virtue of the dawning of the Sun of Manifestation from its horizon with this perspicuous Name.  BH11753

If you desire news of this land: Our Lord, the All-Merciful, hath fulfilled what He promised in the Holy Books and Tablets. He hath emerged from the Most Great Prison despite the opposition of His enemies, and hath established the seat of His throne first in the Ridvan Garden, then in a palace whose very atoms proclaim: Sovereignty, power, majesty and authority belong to God, the One, the Chosen One!  BH10991

In Akka there was a well that supplied water to four places: the mosque, the barracks, the governor's house, and the public bath. The rest had to bring water from outside the city. There was a person who supplied water - he would give water to the barracks for half an hour and then there would be none, whereas previously there had always been water. We would give this person gifts and tea, but it had absolutely no effect.   ABU1426

The appearance of Baha'u'llah changed all things to a condition of improvement. Acca was considered a most terrible place. The atmosphere was considered to be so poisonous that no bird came there. The Prime Minister of Turkey who sent Baha'u'llah to Acca feared that his escort, who was Omar Boy, the major of the Turkish Army, might die after arrival with the exiles, because the air in Akka was so polluted. The prime minister was Ali Pasha.   ABU1188

Know thou that the heedless banished us from the City of God with such manifest injustice that the voice of weeping was raised betwixt earth and heaven, and the dwellers of the Realm above cried out in lamentation. Then did the ship continue on its way by the leave of God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, until we arrived before the city in which hath been imprisoned He through Whose appearance the eyes of God's Messengers were gladdened.   BH02009

For nine consecutive years the Blessed Perfection did not put his feet outside of the gate of Acca. He was either imprisoned in the barrack of closely watched and guarded in the house. According to the strict royal firman of Abdul Aziz, he was to be jailed in a cell all alone, not even one of us was to be allowed to see or talk to him, and to leave the town of Acca was a matter strictly forbidden. In brief he was to be a life prisoner with these deadly restrictions.   ABU0246

In these days, the case of these prisoners has become extremely serious. Hour by hour, the severity of our condition increases. They have imprisoned nearly seventy individuals, all of whom are in discomfort and ill, yet they will not allow anyone to go out to obtain medicine or food, nor have they yet given us even a dinar for our expenses. A few days ago, a pasha came to my son and said they had telegraphed to say that some (of us) would be given one franc per day, others half a franc.  BH01925

The court of the barracks had a most gloomy aspect. There were three or four fig trees on the branches of which several ominous owls screeched all night. Every one got sick, and there were neither provisions nor medicine. At the entrance of the barracks there was a morgue. It was a horrible looking room. No one can imagine a worse place than the barracks of Acca. The surroundings were filthy and dirty, the treatment of the officials was unbearable, and we were looked upon as the enemies of religion and corruptors of morals.   ABU1417

Later, when the order was issued to banish this Youth, all were filled with dismay. The officials in charge of My expulsion declared, however: "These others have not been charged with any offence and have not been expelled by the government. Should they desire to accompany you, no one will oppose them." These hapless souls therefore paid their own expenses, forsook all their possessions, and, contenting themselves with Our presence and placing their whole trust in God, journeyed once again with Him until the fortress of 'Akka became the prison of Baha.  BH00269

I said to him, This Farman is false and has neither meaning nor foundation. The governor became very angry and said, Do you not believe this is the Sultan's Farman? I answered, Yes, this is the Sultan's Farman, but it is based on delusion. His anger increased and he said, Show us how it has no meaning or foundation. I said to him, Know that the Farman states that the imprisonment is perpetual, meaning forever without end. The word 'perpetual' has no meaning since all of us in this world are temporary and must inevitably leave the prison gate, either alive or dead.  ABU1266

Erelong shall the exponents of wealth and power banish Us from the land of Adrianople to the city of 'Akka. According to what they say, it is the most desolate of the cities of the world, the most unsightly of them in appearance, the most detestable in climate, and the foulest in water. It is as though it were the metropolis of the owl, within whose precincts naught can be heard save the echo of its cry. Therein have they resolved to imprison this Youth, to shut against our faces the doors of ease and comfort, and to deprive us of every worldly benefit throughout the remainder of our days.  BH00007

After this, they brought me to Gallipoli, along with seventy men, women, and small children. Following our arrival, a special official, 'Umar Effendi Binbashi (= bigbashi; major), arrived from Istanbul with five sergeants. They issued a decree to the effect that orders had been given for six individuals to go to Acre (with us?), and for five to go to Cyprus; I had no claim on the rest -- they were to be free to choose for themselves. It afterwards became apparent that he had arranged things, for he took the money for the steamer from everyone and brought all of us to Acre, which has the worst water and the worst air in the world -- except for four individuals, who were taken to a ruined fortress in Cyprus.  BH01440

Then when the matter of imprisonment became prolonged, I petitioned the Blessed Beauty the first time, a second time, and a third time to leave the prison and honor the Mansion of Mazra'ih with His presence, but He would not accept. After that I did not dare to repeat the request. However, I informed the Mufti and sent him into the Blessed Presence. He went, knelt, and began kissing the feet of the Blessed Beauty, saying, O my Lord, will you not come out? The air in the garden is pleasant and the view is beautiful. He answered, I am a prisoner and the government would not approve. The Mufti said, They all agree. The Mufti persisted with complete humility and supplication until finally the Blessed Beauty consented to leave the prison.  ABU1266

When we were brought to Haifa, we were taken to a small room. Later we were taken to Akka in a small rowboat. Upon arriving in Akka, we saw soldiers lined up on both sides of the gate, with two soldiers for each one of us. In this manner they took us to the fortress and closed the door upon us - there was neither food nor water until morning. We observed that just as had been revealed in the divine Tablet, the hooting of owls could truly be heard from the walls. Yes, in the morning they came and said that no one was permitted to leave this barracks. Four people could go to the bazaar with soldiers to get whatever bread and water they needed. These were not to speak with anyone, not to associate with anyone, only to buy bread and water.   ABU0643

In 'Akka, the first to throw himself at the feet of Baha'u'llah and kiss the hem of His robe was none other than the mufti of that city himself. We had made every effort to persuade the Blessed Beauty to relocate to the garden [of Mazra'ih], but He refused every time, and would say, 'We are prisoners, and prisoners must be confined.' Eventually, as the mufti of 'Akka was a highly respected and insistent individual, I said to him, 'Could you do something that will convince the Blessed Beauty to leave His confinement?' Animated by his intense devotion, the mufti arose at once and went to see Baha'u'llah. After obtaining His permission to attain His presence, the mufti threw himself at the feet of Baha'u'llah and said, 'I have a request to make of You, and I will not rise up from this spot until You agree to do it.' The mufti insisted and implored repeatedly, until at last the Blessed Beauty consented to his request. He left the fortress to which He had been confined and went to the Mansion of Mazra'ih, which had been prepared to receive Him.  ABU1750

The services and hardships of those days--which were far greater in Adrianople and now several times more so in 'Akka--the Most Great Branch has borne, for in Baghdad we were not outwardly imprisoned, and the Cause of God had not one-hundredth of its present fame, nor did its opponents number one-hundredth of what they do now.  BHU0008

Sultan Abdu'l-'Aziz banished Us to this country in the greatest abasement, and since his object was to destroy Us and humble Us, whenever the means of glory and ease presented themselves, We did not reject them. BHU0048

Verily in the departure of the Ancient Beauty from the Land of Mystery and His entry into the Most Great Prison are signs for the nations, but they do not understand.  BH11830

Upon Our arrival We were welcomed with banners of light, whereupon the Voice of the Spirit cried out saying: 'Soon will all that dwell on earth be enlisted under these banners.'  BH00395


When we were imprisoned in the Military barrack of Acca there was a small, primitive bath in which the Blessed Perfection took occasional bath.   ABU1269


This room was the kitchen. The smoke bothered the Blessed Beauty, so I changed its location. For twenty years, the Blessed Beauty resided in this house   ABU1970


At the end of 20 years we rented a much larger house but it had no bath. I went to Baha'u'llah and asked permission to build one. The more I begged the stronger was his refusal. I said only with fifty pounds a little, comfortable bath can be build but he did not give his consent. Finally a month passed and I was quite worried.   ABU1269

Near the army barracks in 'Akka there existed a public bath which was in a state of ruin. For the sake of the Blessed Beauty, I had it repaired. But after leaving the barracks, the simple matter of bathing became increasingly difficult for the Blessed Beauty until I borrowed a sum of money and repaired the bath in the House of 'Abbud.  ABU2580

He had a palace called Mazra'ih, about four miles north of the city, a lovely place, surrounded by gardens and with a stream of running water. I went and called on this Pasha at his home. I said: 'Pasha, you have left the palace empty, and are living in 'Akka.' He replied: 'I am an invalid and cannot leave the city. If I go there it is lonely and I am cut off from my friends.' I said: 'While you are not living there and the place is empty, let it to us.'  ABU0583


Having repaired and furnished all the rooms I ordered the carpenters to make for me a carriage with cover which was done in due time. A good mansion is made ready for you outside of Acca. It is wonderfully situated and is very charming. From one side the lovely mountains and undulating valleys are seen; from another side there are large orange and mandarine orchards, the oranges like unto the red-lanterns shine and glove through the green boughs; from another side verdant gardens and prairies full of narcissus and tulips are seen; the Mediterranean glistens in the distance; a stream of cool water flows in the Center. Then there was another palace belonging to Abboud and his family. This was the palace of Bahajee. Finally I rented if from him at $150.00 a year and Baha'u'llah and the members of the Holy Family moved into it.   ABU0246



in the Most Great Prison we have met with no one and have completely closed the doors of association. The Master has borne all the hardships for our comfort and ease. He has become an impregnable fortress and a mighty shield before the world and its peoples, bringing us comfort. For us, they first obtained the Mansion of Mazra'ih where we stayed, and then the Mansion of Bahji.  BHU0011

Despite this, they saw that this lamp grew brighter and the power of this Cause grew stronger. Eventually, they sent Baha'u'llah to the prison of 'Akka, but Baha'u'llah, under chains, raised high the call of God and spread His teachings throughout all lands. Although He was imprisoned, He promoted the principles of peace and tranquility.  ABU0062

Then at the seventh hour, one of the officers came and took away the Ancient Beauty, the two Most Great Branches, and Aqa Mirza Muhammad-Quli. As mentioned in the previous petition, the Ancient Beauty and the Greater Branch were placed in a location adjacent to the prison, Aqay-i-Aqa in another place, and His Holiness the Most Great Branch in the prison under chains. This servant and the other loved ones were imprisoned under chains in a very dark place within the building itself. On the second night a telegram arrived from the governor and they changed the location of the Ancient Beauty to an elevated dome above the prison. The two Most Great Branches and Aqay-i-Aqa were in His most holy presence. After thirty-eight and a half hours in the dome, again on Thursday at the fourth hour after sunrise they were summoned to the building for questioning. While proceeding to the assembly, the Tongue of Grandeur uttered these words: "Ye have taken your own principles and cast the principles of God behind your backs. Why do ye not understand?" This verse was repeatedly uttered by the Tongue of Grandeur. After the Ancient Beauty's arrival, the Pasha and the members of the assembly apologized, saying they were obliged to investigate since three people had been killed and all the inhabitants of the city were fearful and terrified, therefore they must proceed according to law. The poor man seemed to have no knowledge of the law. In any case, they asked about His blessed name and homeland, explaining that according to law these questions must be asked and recorded. He said: "It is more manifest than the sun." They asked again. He said: "It behooveth not to mention the name. Look at the government decree which is in your possession." Then with utmost courtesy they requested that He Himself tell them. The Temple of Grandeur sat composed upon the chair and spoke with the tongue of power and might: "My name is Baha'u'llah and My country is Nur. Be ye apprized of it." Then the Ancient Face turned toward the Mufti and spoke, mighty in His grandeur: "Had ye but known, We would have caused you to hear the cooing of the Dove of Glory upon the branch of the Divine Lote-Tree, that ye might perceive what servitude hath spoken - that essence whose inmost reality is lordship." Those present were struck dumb by this eternal Word of God. Then, addressing all, He said: "What is the purpose of this gathering, this question and answer? If ye wish to acknowledge what is your true purpose and the desire of your hearts - for I do not wish to remain in this world even for an hour." And He recited verses from the Surih of the Kings, including this blessed passage: "I have never passed by a tree, but My heart addressed it saying: 'O would that thou wert cut down in My name, and My body crucified upon thee for My Lord's sake.'" During this utterance, the pillars of the All-Merciful were seized with trembling. Then He arose and the Beauty of Youth turned toward another place outside the gathering.  BH00708

In the days of Baha'u'llah, during the worst times in the Most Great Prison, they would not permit any of the friends either to leave the Fortress or to come in from the outside. Skew-Cap and the Siyyid lived by the second gate of the city, and watched there at all times, day and night. Whenever they spied a Baha'i traveler they would hurry away to the Governor and tell him that the traveler was bringing in letters and would carry the answers back. The Governor would then arrest the traveler, seize his papers, jail him, and drive him out. This became an established custom with the authorities and went on for a long time--indeed, for nine years until, little by little, the practice was abandoned.  AB00002

The Ambassador's purpose was on one hand to portray himself as a supporter of Baha'u'llah while on the other hand to dig a deep pit for Him. But I dealt with such persons the same way that Sa'id dealt with the blind Shaykh. And I sent one of the government officials in Istanbul named As'ad Bey to the Ambassador who, as appropriate to the conversation, said to him: "I heard you instructed your staff not to tell you the local news of Istanbul containing accounts of murder and plunder and such, because due to weak nerves you cannot bear to hear such fearful and sorrowful news. So in such a state how can you resist Baha'u'llah Who fears neither kings nor governments, but rather stands against the whole world?" Upon hearing these words the Ambassador sank into worry and dread.   ABU1596

We have emerged from the Most Great Prison and made this palace Our Most Sublime Vision, to the dismay of those who have denied God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH05378

At last the authorities imprisoned Baha'u'llah in the Fortress of Akka, in Syria. Even in prison, while under surveillance, he was able to promulgate his teachings and to write his messages to the world. He remained in the prison-city of Akka until His ascension in 1892, yet His teachings had by then reached far beyond the confines of His prison walls, touching hearts and transforming lives throughout the East and beginning to influence the West.  ABU3765
 
