The consuls of that city (Adrianople) gathered in the presence of this Youth at the hour of His departure and expressed their desire to aid Him. They, verily, evinced towards Us manifest affection.  BH11462

The departure of the Most Beauteous One from among the people occurred at noon on Friday, the twenty-second day of the month of Shawwal. For some time there had been talk of departure, and the will of the Pre-existent Sovereign had been fixed and firm upon the command to depart, but owing to the distress of these few servants it had been postponed until that mentioned day. But such lamentation and outcry arose from the beloved ones that a second resurrection was raised up--indeed, it was far greater than the resurrection in Iraq at the time of departure, and the cries of the servants were more intense.  BH02947



the Dawning-Place of Revelation went forth from His inhabited house, directing His steps toward the house of His brother who was named Kalim, and there He secluded Himself for eight days and nights   BH03632

In the Land of Mystery too, we would meet with some and grant audience to others. But in the Most Great Prison we have met with no one and have completely closed the doors of association.  BHU0011

We stayed four months in Istanbul and (during that time) I never went anywhere or associated with anyone. After four months, a decree was issued to the effect that we must go to Edirne. We sought to know the reason for this, and various pretexts were advanced, but it became known to us that the real purpose was to carry out the wishes of the Iranian ambassador. I complied (with the decree) and we arrived in Edirne.  BH01047


The beauty of God departed from the mosque. It so happened that the store of the aforementioned Hasan Aqa was on Baha'u'llah's route. When he arrived at the store, the tongue of God said, "Based on the decision that the gentleman had announced in his proclamation, the countenance of the All-Merciful presented himself, whereas the idolaters repudiated their own agreement."  BH03710


The Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones) was once exiled from Tehran to Iraq, another time banished from Iraq to the Great City, and for a time became a stranger in the land of Bulgaria, and for a long period in the Most Great Prison was companion to a hundred thousand afflictions and pains. AB03445

When we left Bagdad a Darvish came to me and begged to be a member of the party. I told him the trip will be most difficult. He was willing to accept all manners of hardships. He came with us as far as Constantinople and when we left for Adrianople he stayed behind. After a while he joined us. Having been accustomed with our association he could not live alone. In Adrianople he rented a room in an adjoining Mosque with another friend and for sometime they lived together peacefully. One day the Darvish came to Baha'u'llah saying that "my friend this morning attacked me furiously and gave me a sound beating, but I did not say anything. I was in the state of the utmost resignation. After half an hour he returned, kissed my hands and said 'Verily you have attained the stage of great merit, you are now a saint.'" Baha'u'llah listening with interest to this story said laughing:- 'If he beats you another time and you demonstrate such resignation he may believe that you have attained to the station of Prophethood.' ABU2099

When we were living in Adrianople there was a Bahktashi who lived close by to us. Professionally he was a wood-chopper, socially he was a wit. Once he got severely sick and was on the eve of departure from this world. Becoming acquainted with this fact I called on him. He was lying on a low, uncomfortable cot and his old wife sitting beside it with the marks of solicitude and care on her wrinkled face. Suddenly she started to speak addressing her husband: 'Thou art going to get well real soon. This sickness shall pass away soon and thou wilt be strong. Oh! my beloved! I am praying to Allah for thy speedy recovery. May Allah hear my prayers!' The sick man as though pulling himself out of a heavy drowsiness half opened his eyes and said: 'What can I do even if I get well! I am tired of this world and I want to leave it my dear! Oh! I am so weary, so weary' and he closed his eyes. The wife with much agitation in her mien declared:- Oh no, no! May Allah never bring that black day! My darling! Thou wilt gain back thy health! Together we will go into the garden and thee eat all kinds of fruits. Hand in hand we will walk through the woods and listen to the songs of the birds! Yes, yes, I will nurse thee with the apple of my eyes.' The sick man without opening his eyes, and seemingly with much struggle answered her back. 'Oh my wife! Be silent! Nothing shall happen if I get well. Only this: I have to chop ten or twenty or thirty more loads of wood. That's all. Have I not cut enough wood? Oh! Let me die!' In this world we are all more or less wood-choppers. If we are attacked with a sickness and survive it we have to work a little more, to chop a few more loads of wood and the world will go on perennially. ABU1352

The Blessed Beauty did not make any more public speeches after leaving Baghdad and Adrianople. The mode of His discourse and the style of His utterances were a cause of wonder and were without peer or likeness. However, out of respect, I do not wish to give my speeches in that manner.  ABU3294

If He was not banished to Adrianople, the Great Tablets to the Kings and rulers would not have been revealed  ABU0621

There are two types of pictures of the Blessed Beauty, each one depicting a different pose, and both were taken in Adrianople.  They are distinct and clear and absolutely unmistakable.  You should announce this to all the friends and let them see it and become acquainted with it, because people who seek material gains might be tempted to give currency to some unknown picture as that of the Blessed Beauty, and this would of course perturb the minds of the friends AB05703

every calamity that befalls the friends of God, though outwardly it is a calamity, in reality it results in a bounty. What calamity could be greater for the friends of God than when they expelled the Blessed Beauty from Iran? Although at that time there were no believers in Tehran, wherever they were, they were very sorrowful and no affliction is greater than hopelessness. However this calamity became such a bounty because it was the cause of the exaltation of God's Cause. If the Blessed Beauty had not gone to Baghdad, the Cause would not have attained this exaltation. Likewise when they sent the Blessed Beauty from Baghdad to Constantinople. The friends were grief-stricken, weeping blood, their wailing and lamentation reached to heaven, but how much it became the cause of the glory of God's Cause. Similarly when they were sending Him from Constantinople to Adrianople, how much it caused sorrow to the friends to a degree that cannot be described. Likewise when from Adrianople to Akka which was the prison for criminals. When this news reached various places all the friends became distraught. This calamity affected them so much that it cannot be described, and yet this became the greatest cause of the exaltation of God's Cause. If the Blessed Beauty had not come to Akka, where would the divine power and might be manifested such that imprisonment became the cause of the proclamation of God's Cause and its fame, prison became paradise, and jail became a palace.  ABU0947

these days we reside in Adrianople. Although it is a great city and vast country, yet the heart finds no rest or tranquility due to separation from friends, and the heart's agitation has made all affairs agitated and scattered. In any case, O friends and companions, do not forget these emigrants and captives. The clouds of divine destiny and the mists of heavenly decree have risen from every direction, and the rains of tribulations and calamities have poured down in such measure that neither can the eye find relief in weeping to comfort withered hearts, nor can the tongue find strength in lamentation to provide solace. Each day we passed over a mountain and arrived at another mountain and hill. We traversed a hundred thousand deserts and crossed a hundred thousand mountains. How many unseen things were seen and how many unheard matters were heard. We never heard of such glorious captivity nor saw such mighty abasement. Outwardly we were in the utmost glory, majesty and sovereignty, although we were afflicted among enemies. The power and ascendancy of the true Sovereign was evident in this journey. After traversing all these aforementioned stages, we reached the sea. Glory be to God! What transpired and occurred with the waves of the sea, the various winds, and these small children! Until by the aid of the Most Great Sea we crossed the Lesser Sea and arrived at the seashore which is the city of Constantinople. From there we took a carriage to the residence assigned by the government. We remained four months in that unillumined city and left there the fruit of the divine Tree and the leaf of the heavenly Lote-Tree. From there like captives we arrived in another city named Adrianople. Forty days of captivity had been heard of, but six months had never been heard of. Throughout this period several children were sick and ill until we found residence beyond Qaf. And now strange and alone, without companion or friend, without associate or helper, in this dark city we pass these transient days.  BH01781

In our days in Baghdad, we would go to the coffeehouse and sit there, meeting with outsiders and insiders, strangers and friends, those far and near. We would bring the distant near, make the stranger a friend, bring the outsider in, serve the Cause of God, aid the Word of God, and exalt the Name of God. Those same services, troubles, hardships, trials and tribulations of those days were endured to a far greater degree by the Most Great Branch in Adrianople, and to an even greater and better extent in Akka. For in Baghdad we were not outwardly imprisoned and confined, and the Cause of God had not yet attained even one-hundredth of its present fame, nor did it face even one-hundredth of its present opponents, adversaries and enemies. In the Land of Mystery too, we would meet with some and grant audience to others. But in the Most Great Prison we have met with no one and have completely closed the doors of association. The Master has borne all the hardships for our comfort and ease. He has become an impregnable fortress and a mighty shield before the world and its peoples, bringing us comfort. For us, they first obtained the Mansion of Mazra'ih where we stayed, and then the Mansion of Bahji. He has arisen to serve the Cause in such wise that they do not even have the opportunity to visit Bahji weekly, while we are occupied with [illegible] and the revelation of manifest verses, and they are beset with trouble, hardship and distress, for association with these people is more troublesome than any other hardship. BHU0011

And when they strove to banish and expel the manifest light from Iran, the mighty banner was raised in Iraq. And when they engaged in hypocrisy in Iraq, it caused the Ancient Beauty to be exiled to the renowned city, and the mighty drum and the greatest bell were struck in Istanbul. And when they sent Him with utmost oppression and enmity from the center of Ottoman rule to Rumelia, that region too received the rays of the manifest light. And when He was transferred from that land to the Most Great Prison, and the ruined fortress became the prison of the Beloved of the world of being, and the utmost abasement and humiliation were imposed, the call of the Cause of God and the voice of the Word of God spread to the countries of Europe and America. It caused earthquakes in all regions, and the people of hypocrisy became disappointed and lost. Yet still they do not cease.  AB00454

To give a brief account, we resided for six years in Edirne on the orders of the Ottoman government; nothing contrary to the laws (of the state) was ever manifested by me or my followers, as all the people of Edirne bear witness and confess. Nevertheless, three months ago, officials of the Ottoman state suddenly surrounded our house, seized all the belongings of my followers in the bazaar, and took them to the government building. After this, a man came from the governor and informed us that, on the orders of the Sultan, I had to go with (my wives?) and children to Gallipoli. They gave us no further notice than that. All the belongings of my followers were sold for a paltry price at the decree of the military commanders, but they did not even give us an opportunity to collect the money. After this, they brought me to Gallipoli, along with seventy men, women, and small children. Following our arrival, a special official, 'Umar Effendi Binbashi (= bigbashi; major), arrived from Istanbul with five sergeants. They issued a decree to the effect that orders had been given for six individuals to go to Acre (with us?), and for five to go to Cyprus; I had no claim on the rest -- they were to be free to choose for themselves. It afterwards became apparent that he had arranged things, for he took the money for the steamer from everyone and brought all of us to Acre, which has the worst water and the worst air in the world -- except for four individuals, who were taken to a ruined fortress in Cyprus. No sooner had we arrived in Acre than they imprisoned us in a ruined barracks, even the women and six-month old children, and they forthwith shut the doors of entry and exit. We have now been imprisoned in the ruined barracks for fifty days, and, on account of the badness of the water and air, we have all been stricken by serious illnesses, such that, after two days, three people died without a physician or food or medicine. Up until now, we have not learnt the nature of our crime. There has been no enquiry. But neither wrongdoing nor acts contrary to the laws have ever been witnessed from us. BH01440

Six years ago we were invited at the Ottoman suggestion and we have accepted.  Later, without having committed any fault and at the request of Persia we were sent from Baghdad to Constantinople.  After a stay of 4 months, we were exiled to Adrianople. Now, once again, we are being exiled from Adrianople without the knowledge of where we are destined and without any reason, all our possessions were disposed of.  If the Turkish government does not welcome us any more, and as we are not of this country let us be free to go into a country of another power.  It is to the sovereigns of Europe who like to help the oppressed that we plead, supplicating them to release us from this bondage.  BH08012

Indeed God's ways are mysterious and unsearchable. What outward relation exists between Shiraz and Teheran, Bagdad and Constantinople, Adrianople and Acca and Haifa! God worked patiently step by step through these various cities according to his own definite, eternal plan - so that the prophecies and predictions as foretold by the prophets may become fulfilled. This golden thread of promise concerning the Messianic Millennium is running through the Bible and it was so destined that God in its own good time will cause its appearance. Not even a single word will be left meaningless or unfulfilled. ABU2955

He was single and alone, without help or assistance and four times he was exiled. Each exile became the means of strengthening his cause. From Persia they exiled him, saying, 'Now his cause is uprooted. No more trace of him will remain.' But no! If he had not come to Baghdad his cause would not have made such progress in Persia. Then two monarchs united and exiled him from Baghdad to Constantinople. 'If he goes further fro Persia,' they said, he will be uprooted sooner.' But instead of that his cause was elevated. He paid no heed to the Ottoman power. This is why the Ottoman minister became so angry. The Persian ambassador was authorized by the Persian government to exert himself to the utmost to get the Blessed Beauty removed from Constantinople to Adrianople. He tried so much that he nearly killed himself in the attempt. Because of his efforts he went to Persia hoping to become Prime Minister and receive his reward. When he went to Persia he said, 'Whatever I can do in the matter of exiling the Blessed Beauty, I did and my efforts were ultimately successful in getting him sent to Akka, but this was a very difficult affair. But the justification for it is this: When Baha'u'llah arrived in Constantinople he became the cause of the honor of Persia, for he took no notice of the Ottoman government. All other Persians who have come even the princes, have been the cause of Persia's humiliation for they used to go to the Minister's house begging - one would beg a living, another would beg nationalization, and so on. But when Baha'u'llah arrived in Constantinople he paid no heed to us (Persian officials) nor to the Ottoman government.' He (the Ambassador) was an enemy and this is the witness he gave. They sent the Blessed Beauty from Constantinople. His cause became elevated and when they sent his to the prison for murderers and highway robbers in Akka, in that prison he raised his banner. He wrote epistles to all the sovereigns. He wrote to Napoleon 3rd, to the Emperor of Germany, to the Shah of Persia, to the Ottoman Vizier (Ali Pasha), To Sultan Abdul Aziz. In prison his power became apparent. This was a manifest proof. In Sural-ul-Hylk, these letters are published. ABU0513

When in company with the Blessed Beauty we arrived in Constantinople as exiles, we were all filled with joy and gladness and enjoyed great peace of mind. Then when we were removed to Adrianople we still continued in the same spirit in our new place of exile. None among us offered any complaint, except three persons: Mirza Yahya (Azal) who was extremely downhearted and confused; Siyyid Muhammad of Isfahan; and Haji Mirza Ahmad of Kashan. These three constantly complained of the hardships and bothered and troubled the believers. At least Mirza Yahya and Haji Siyyid Muhammad of Isfahan appeared morbid and sullen without complaining openly to others; they only seemed dissatisfied and lost in melancholy. But haji Mirza Ahmad, though a brother of Jinabi Zabih (one of the great Baha'i Martyrs) constantly troubled the believers with fits of impatience, complained of the violence of the cold weather, and the severity of the snow and frost, often saying sarcastically: 'Though I often said at Baghdad that this Shaykh Abdul Husayn Mujtahid is busily engaged in making trouble for us, in company with the Persian Consul, working for our exile, no one listened or heeded my warnings. Now you all see how they brought about our exile to this wretched place, and afflicted us with great calamities in these cold countries. And now we are God's faithful servants and must need suffer these trials!' etc. "To be brief, He so constantly found fault with everything and showed impatience, that on several occasions the believers were provoked to the point of beating him, so that he might perhaps abandon us and leave the place. But each time I prevented them from so doing. But the rest of us, who were over fifteen in number and yet were obliged to live in one single room, were nevertheless filled with joy and composure; for we were blessed with exile for the sake of the Cause of God. And in order to pass the time, each day one of us cooked a certain dish for the rest to enjoy. So the severe winter went by and in the course of a few months the snow and cold passed away and the famous delectable spring-time of Rumelia came on. Then the weather was so delightful, that even the above Haji Mirza Ahmad began to praise the glorious air of Rumelia. ABU0777

When we were exiled again from Bagdad in our company there was a Baha'i by the name Mirza Ahmad Kashani. He accompanied Baha'u'llah to Constantinople and later on to Adrianople. One night we were invited to a feast. The guests were divided into twos and when the supper time came each company was served with a dish of rice and one chicken. It so happened that I was made the partner of Mirza Ahmad. As we sat around the table to each, my partner humorously remarked to get a wing from that friend, a piece of breast from a second, a leg from a third and so on. I did so, thinking that he will divide our chicken amongst the believers; instead of doing this, he ate both and everybody was most amused. He ate also my share. He was your namesake (the Master turned to me laughing.). I had given him the title of "geometrician," because he like to get the first of every thing and in order to gain his aim, he would devise many humorous plans, calculated to make anybody laugh. When he entered a meeting he would look all around and then sit a place where "huble-bubble" would be served first. When the tea was prepared by one of the believers he would go to him in a hurried fashion. "I have a most important affair to attend to. I must go out now. I cannot wait any longer. Please give me one glass of tea." All these innocent plans, he would resort to, in order to drink a cup of tea before anybody else; because he believed all the aroma of the tea is the first cup.... The first winter we spent in Adrianople was severely cold and this Mirza Ahmad Kashani not being accustomed to hard climate suffered very much. In fact all of us endured the most difficult hardship. Having lived all our lives in moderate and warm climate, the rigorous air of Adrianople was unendurable. The weather was so cold that the water was frozen in copper jars and vases and as a result, they were broken in pieces. My fingers were congealed to the bar of iron and when I tried to push them back the skin was torn off. As the home where the women lived was a little far, whenever I wanted to call on them, I would cover all my head and face with the "Aba," leaving only a small hole for one of my eyes to see my way. Notwithstanding this, the cold was so bitter, the wind was so biting that it was as though some one drove a sword or a dagger or an arrow through my eye. Although we had several rooms in the house, we decided that twelve of us stay in one room to get warmer. We did not have any heavy clothing and the one who had a light overcoat was considered most fortunate. In this one room we had a tin-plate oven and we made fire to keep us warm. The oven would get as red as fire. Near it we would put two or three bottles of water to be kept warm for drinking. When we got up after midnight to drink, the fire of the oven had naturally gone out and therefore the water in the bottles was frozen. We had to make fire, thaw the ice and drink a glass of water. That winter one whole flock of sheep with their shepherd were frozen to death in the country. All the inhabitants said, they had never seen such a winter in their lives. In short, through the assistance of Baha'u'llah we lived through it and when the spring came around the country became verdant and the hearts were made glad. ABU0372

after imprisoning the Blessed Perfection, the government decided to banish him to Baghdad thinking that through this banishment the root of the Cause would be destroyed. As it took one month to go from Tehran to Baghdad, it was thought by the people that all trace of the cause would be lost; on the contrary, the Cause of God became more powerful, his words more widely spread, his proclamation more generally heard and the power of his Cause the stronger; consequently the government decided to send the Blessed Perfection from Baghdad to Constantinople. As Constantinople was a large city and as there were many Persians in the city who traveled freely, this plan also proved fruitless. Through the power of the Persian government the Blessed Perfection was then sent to Adrianople, in Roumelia, a country very far from Persian (and a possession of Turkey). Because there was no railway, there was very little travel by the Persians to and from Adrianople, and therefore, it was thought by the learned me of Persia that the Cause of god would have no effect upon the Persians. However, it was soon learned that these places were not places of banishment for the Blessed Perfection (Glory be to him!), and it was therefore decided that he should be sent to some small place--a place where murderers were confined, where robbers were imprisoned, so that this Cause would be weakened. Accordingly, the clergy, or learned men of Persia, being hostile to this holy Cause, so arranged that the Blessed Perfection was sent from Adrianople (the land of Mystery) to Acre, Syria. ABU0740

Subsequently, the Persian government caused Baha'u'llah to be further banished to Adrianople. From there numerous Tablets were revealed day and night to the effect that "Since We have been expelled from our homeland and banished from Baghdad to a remote place, that the fire of the love of God might be quenched, the lamp of guidance extinguished, the banner of God hauled down, and the call of the True One silenced, We have therefore chosen to fully reveal the Cause, manifest the proof, raise the call, and hoist the banner of the Cause of God, that all may see that this persecution, enmity, banishment, and exile has only deepened the influence of the Word of God, that the fame of the Cause has been noised abroad, and that the tidings of the advent of the Kingdom of God have reached unto both East and West." This universal declaration took place in the year 1280. All the friends, with the exception of Yahya and a few of his followers, became firm and devoted believers, and from Adrianople Tablets would ceaselessly flow to Persia.  AB00097

I, alone, have come to you from the dawning place of eternity with a great, a most great announcement. I shall wait until the sun sets in the west, so that perhaps my opponents will find the opportunity within themselves to repent.  BH03710

