
and in it are mentioned the signs of separation on the day when the Dove of the Cause shall wing its flight from the branch of Iraq to the holy and luminous Ridvan   BH03724

Thus doth the Dove admonish you and remind you with verses of mighty glory. Say: It counseleth the loved ones at a time when it taketh flight from the branch of Iraq  BH04443

Their party in Iraq united with the oppressors who denied Thy Self and turned away from Thy beauty, until they made my family and loved ones captives from Zawra' to Hadba'.  BH01875

"When we arrived in Constantinople it was just at this season. The garden of the house wherein we lived contained one rose-bush over one branch of which one rose bloomed forth after sunset. The believers having not seen roses at this season were overjoyed and till late at night were gathered around it." ABU1439

We proceeded until We reached the sea. We sat and heard from its murmuring   BH05437

This is a Tablet wherein are mentioned verses of separation from this poor and wretched servant at the time when He departeth from the region of Iraq   BH05552

The cause of the exile of the loved ones of God from Iraq was their gathering together, and likewise the cause of exile from the Land of Mystery.   BH03257

The Blessed Perfection travelled in "Kajavé" but we had a horse for him and sometimes he would ride on it. From Bagdad to the first stage he was on horseback and while in Acca, we had a wonderful white donkey which belonged to him. The name of the donkey was "Barg" - lightening.   ABU0871

"Hear My call at the time of departure from the shore of Iraq"  BH03458


We reached the sea which is mentioned in the Tablets, if ye be of them that know. We embarked upon the ship in Our Name, then caused it to traverse the sea in My Name, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Beautiful. We preserved it through a power from Us, and protected those who embarked upon it until they reached its shore in the city whose name is renowned among you, if ye be of the knowing ones. And We remained therein for four successive months, as inscribed in preserved and mighty Tablets. Throughout those months none of those who dwelt therein, whether high or low, sought Our company. God Himself is witness to this and is All-Knowing. We went not unto anyone, nor turned toward any soul, thus manifesting God's sovereignty and His command, and proclaiming God's power and His dominion, until the appointed time of tarrying was fulfilled. Then We departed therefrom and traversed the way until We entered this remote prison.   BH00248

When the Blessed Perfection was exiled from Bagdad the large number of believers who went with him divided the work of the party among them. For example, Darveesh Sedk Ali and Haji Ebrahim acted as equerries, Ostad Mohammed Ali looked after the baggage, Mirza Mohammed Goli supervised the pitching of the tents and I was, if we may here use a military term, a commissary officer and had to supply the party, including horses, etc., with food and the daily necessities. Often, by day or by night we covered a distance of from twenty-five to thirty miles. No sooner would we reach a caravanserai than from sheer fatigue everyone would lie down and go to sleep: utter exhaustion having overtaken everybody they would be unable even to move. ABU0498

Say: The Spirit at that time departeth from Iraq and turneth toward a western direction.   BH03399

When we left Bagdad for Constantinople as there were a large number of us we had to divide our duties.   ABU2006

Baha'u'llah and His retinue then left Baghdad, the Abode of Peace, for Constantinople, the City of Islam.  AB00002

this Bird hath taken flight from the branches of Iraq, and this was ordained by the All-Wise, the All-Knowing  BH06947

From Baghdad to Adrianople, some of the friends like Jinab Aqa Mirza Mahmud and Aqa Mirza Ja'far endured great hardships.   ABU2313

Know thou that the Spirit will depart from the region of Iraq, and this hath been decreed by One Who is mighty and powerful.   BH01864

Thus doth the Dove of Separation remember thee at the time when It taketh flight from Iraq, and this is indeed a grievous sorrow.   BH09188

He was still in Bagdad when we were exiled to Constantinople and used to call on me almost every week antecedent to our departure.   ABU1217

When they wanted to move the Blessed Beauty from Baghdad, Namiq Pasha sent the order and official papers to His presence with the message that "Once before an order came and we wrote some excuses to the Sublime Porte. This is the second time these orders have come and there is no choice but to execute them." At that time the Blessed Beauty, may His glory be exalted, accepted and preparations for departure were made. Although He never liked pomp, nevertheless He said "In these days we must depart with utmost majesty." Therefore He went to the Pasha's garden and stayed for twelve days, arranging festivities and celebrating the Most Great Festival. ABU0642

When we were exiled to Constantinople from Baghdad, the Persian Ambassador at the former city did his best to bring about our total destruction.  ABU0997

When in company with the Blessed Beauty we arrived in Constantinople as exiles, we were all filled with joy and gladness and enjoyed great peace of mind.   ABU0777

When Baha'u'llah and His retinue left Baghdad for Constantinople, Muhammad-'Ali was in His company, and continued on with Him to the Land of Mystery, Adrianople.  AB00002

These latter days wherein the Sun of the horizons hath set from the horizon of Iraq and hath dawned from another horizon, as ordained in the preserved Tablets of glory.   BH02084

Later, without having committed any fault and at the request of Persia we were sent from Baghdad to Constantinople. After a stay of 4 months, we were exiled to Adrianople.  BH08012

When the Blessed Perfection was in Constantinople He sent a message to Mirza Hossein Khan, the Persian Ambassador, through the then well-known Mirza Safa to this effect...   ABU1466


When we left Bagdad for Constantinople many of us rode on horses and as we travelled by night...Our trip from Boston to California had not the difficulties of one day of those 60 days   ABU0449

The Dove of Eternity hath taken flight from the shores of Iraq, if ye be of them that know. And then the breezes of separation blow upon all the servants, if ye be of them that understand.   BH03243


After traversing all these aforementioned stages, we reached the sea...From there we took a carriage to the residence assigned by the government. We remained four months in that unillumined city   BH01781

When we were travelling from Bagdad toward Constantinople, one day, we thought [to] go ahead of the family, pitch the tent and prepare everything till Baha'u'llah and the rest of the party arrive.   ABU0844

Then they exiled Him to Constantinople so He would be very far from Iran and the power of His word would have no influence but the opposite occurred - the power of His word became more penetrating.   ABU0250

Thus they took the Ancient Beauty from the realm of the East to the country of the West. But this migration and absence became the cause of exalting the Word of God and diffusing the divine fragrances  AB00427

Having received the Firman of exile from Bagdad to Constantinople - when the friends heard this dire news their hearts were torn to pieces. Through the intensity of anguish they were weeping uncontrollably.  ABU0962

These are verses that appeared in the pavilion of eternity and the canopy of holiness when the Most Great Name arrived from the direction of the All-Glorious in the land of Samsun, which is near a great sea.   BH01069

When we left Bagdad a Darvish came to me and begged to be a member of the party. I told him the trip will be most difficult. He was willing to accept all manners of hardships. He came with us as far as Constantinople   ABU2099


After twelve days the blessed procession departed from Iraq toward Istanbul. All people gathered outside the city for farewell. After the Blessed Beauty mounted, several from outside called the adhan Allahu Akbar! Allahu Akbar!  ABU0351

Then two monarchs united and exiled him from Baghdad to Constantinople. 'If he goes further from Persia,' they said, he will be uprooted sooner.' But instead of that his cause was elevated. He paid no heed to the Ottoman power.   ABU0513

When the Blessed Perfection was exiled from Bagdad, the large number of the believers who followed him, divided the work of the party amongst themselves. From Bagdad to Samson they served with such rare faithfulness and loyalty.   ABU0077

consequently the government decided to send the Blessed Perfection from Baghdad to Constantinople. As Constantinople was a large city and as there were many Persians in the city who traveled freely, this plan also proved fruitless.   ABU0740

Likewise when they sent the Blessed Beauty from Baghdad to Constantinople. The friends were grief-stricken, weeping blood, their wailing and lamentation reached to heaven, but how much it became the cause of the glory of God's Cause.   ABU0947

There were 60 stages from Bagdad to Samson and the trip was made under the most difficult circumstances. It was a time of famine and scarcity of food. We had beside more than 70 people in the party and nearly 30 horses and other animals.   ABU0871

Then came the departure from Iraq. Surely thou hast heard how the Luminary of the horizons shed His radiance upon all the world. By God! No soul was seen but it became submissive, and no tongue was observed but it was rendered speechless before the All-Merciful.   BH01078

And when they strove to banish and expel the manifest light from Iran, the mighty banner was raised in Iraq. And when they engaged in hypocrisy in Iraq, it caused the Ancient Beauty to be exiled to the renowned city, and the mighty drum and the greatest bell were struck in Istanbul.   AB00454

Say: The Bird of Immortality hath taken flight in truth, and thereby have the hearts of them that are near been consumed. Say: The Nightingale of the Spirit hath flown from the branch of Iraq and seeketh another branch, as decreed by the mysteries of destiny in the preserved tablets of holiness.   BH02319

Yet the Youth went forth adorned with the ornament of thy Lord, in such wise that the Most Great Name became renowned throughout the realms that were attributed to the Son, until We reached the shore of a mighty sea. Then did the Most Great Sea take its place upon the Ark with manifest sovereignty   BH03940

although the Greatest Name's departure from Baghdad was as an exile and banishment, yet to such a degree was the might, power and majesty of the Supreme Lord manifest and evident that the governor and counselor Namiq Pasha along with all provincial officials and military commanders were utterly submissive and humble   AB02737

When the Blessed Perfection moved into the garden of Hajib Pasha, outside of Bagdad, for twelve days there was a general feast. A great tent was raised in the center of the garden, under which Baha'u'llah received all the callers, the ministers, the theologians, the learned and the prominent leaders of the Community.   ABU0604

Verily, in the departure of the Luminary of the horizons from the region of Iraq, and His embarkation upon the ship after passing through the realm, and the establishment of the Chosen One's throne in the Land of Mystery, and His departure therefrom through tyranny, are signs for those who perceive and evidences for those who discern.   BH04088


At last the Persian government, having grown alarmed at His influence, said: "Baghdad is close to Persia and is a place of passage for the Persians. Thus, in order to put out this fire Baha'u'llah must be banished to a distant land." The Persian government then petitioned the Ottoman government, and Baha'u'llah was as a result transferred with all due honour out of Baghdad.   AB00097

But they thought that if they exiled the Blessed Beauty, this Lamp would be extinguished and the holy fragrances would cease. Yet had this exile not occurred, how would the divine call have arisen in Istanbul? Where would the divine call have become world-embracing in the Holy Land? How would the divine fame have reached East and West? All of these were due to the blessing of that exile.  ABU0856

The government of Persia said: "As long as Baha'o'llah is in Persia the country will not be at peace. When Baha'o'llah is exiled from Persia the country will then find peace. He shall no longer be connected with this country; all communications with him shall be suspended." So the Shah of Persia endeavored until he succeeded in expelling the Blessed Perfection to Constantinople to Roumelia.   ABU1343

At this hour when the Nightingale of the Garden of Eternity has taken wing to the nest of faithfulness, and the Beauty of the assembly of lovers has resolved to journey to the realm of Constantinople - that He might fly from the bower of the Abode of Peace, Baghdad, to the nest of the Abode of Islam, Istanbul, and hasten from this land and region to the territory and realm of Rum, there to warble with holy, celestial melodies, that perchance earthly souls might take flight from their mortal abode to dwell beneath the shade of the True Phoenix, and like birds of the Divine Throne soar to the eternal rose garden... And as to what prompted this move and was the cause of this journey - it was that the Persian government has, for three years until now, pursued this servant with sword and spear, never neglecting even an atom's weight in their efforts. Rather, they have engaged in this with all earnestness and striving, especially during the past year or more when they exerted efforts beyond their capacity. In brief, at first they petitioned and strived with the Ottoman government to have them seize Us and all Our companions and hand Us over bound. The Roman (Ottoman) government refused. Then they involved other powers as intermediaries, and foreign powers advocated and mediated on behalf of the Persian government. However, the Roman government categorically refused, saying that the Persian government should not make such requests as they were impossible and unattainable.   AB00139

In Baghdad, matters reached such a point that all were in utmost fear and dread of the sovereignty of the Blessed Beauty. Since the command of the sword had not been lifted, all the friends went about armed in the streets and bazaars, and the people were in utmost trepidation. The Blessed Beauty would ride alone from Baghdad to Kazimayn, and all of us were in His blessed company. It had such great majesty that all people were astonished, wondering what power this was, what might this was, what glory this was. Throughout all the regions of Iran there was no mention of anything except Baghdad. Every year two hundred thousand pilgrims would come and go to Karbila and Najaf and return to Iran, exaggerating greatly about how the Baha'is in Baghdad were thus and so. This caused Nasiri'd-Din Shah to be seized with fear, and he observed that the Iranian officials and the mujtahids of Karbila and Najaf and the Shi'ites of Baghdad could not resist, as day by day the Cause was ascending. Out of intense fear they appealed to Istanbul. Mirza Husayn Khan strove night and day in Istanbul. Communications passed between Tehran and the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the Ottoman Ministry, until finally Nasiri'd-Din Shah himself wrote to the Ottoman Sultan that his realm was in danger, and Baghdad being adjacent to Iran, his request was that they seize the Baha'is and hand them over to the governor of Kermanshah, 'Imadu'd-Dawlih, who would come with an army and take custody of them at the frontier. The Ottoman government did not accept this request. Nasiri'd-Din Shah's second request was that at least they be removed far from the Iranian border, that they not be near the Iranian frontier, as two hundred thousand pilgrims go to Baghdad yearly and many of them become Baha'is, therefore his request was that they move the Blessed Beauty from Baghdad. Thus came the Ottoman decree, with utmost respect, that circumstances required that He grace Istanbul with His presence. This is the basis of the migration of the Blessed Beauty from Baghdad to Istanbul.  ABU0239
