Verily, We love not idleness and neglect, as doth testify unto this the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.  BH11804

The most despised of men in the sight of God are they who sit and beg. Hold ye fast unto the cord of means and place your trust in God, the Provider of all means.  BH00001

The Persian Bahais often live in the utmost poverty and want, yet they never complain nor ask for money from any one. Begging they consider to be below their spiritual station.  ABU1198

The meaning is that begging is forbidden, and giving to beggars who have made begging their profession is also forbidden. The intention is that the root of begging should be cut off.   AB00632

The basest of men are they that yield no fruit on earth. Such men are verily counted as among the dead, nay better are the dead in the sight of God than those idle and worthless souls.  BH00113

God has created man noble, how can he degrade this station of divine nobility by begging? He has made him of the pure essence of spiritual wealth, how does he dare to alloy it by the base metal of mendicancy?  ABU0106

Convey greetings to all the loved ones and forbid them from idle pastimes and games. The wine of love for the Peerless Lord and the cup of knowledge of the eternal Sovereign suffices for all who dwell in the realm. BH11251

Begging in the marketplaces is not lawful, and whosoever begs, giving to him is forbidden. It is incumbent upon all to work, and those who cannot - O ye manifestations of wealth - ye shall reach out to them from Me.  BB00020

"There was a time in the Orient when there was no mendicancy at all, six or seven hundred years ago. In Syria there was not any sign of it, and the reason was because the economic conditions were so simple, and there was no starvation. They had certain contributions which prevent them, and they are recorded now in historical documents."  ABU0208

"Lazy people should not be assisted; otherwise everybody would leave his work and expect others to support them. There would be no end to it. But there may be someone who is either unable to work or is striving to find some work and is not able to find it; it is not really a shortcoming but he cannot succeed. Such souls are to be assisted."   ABU0266

But there are some in this world who are outwardly and inwardly confused and scattered, idle and unemployed, a heavy burden upon others - they engage in no craft and pursue no occupation or profession, counting themselves among the free spirits while they would travel two hundred leagues for the mulberries of Shamran, the fruits of Tuserkan, or the date harvest of Arabia. Such idle souls are certainly not acceptable, for every soul must pursue some work, craft or profession so that they may carry their own weight rather than becoming a burden for others to bear, like a paralyzing nightmare. AB02662

Some of the friends who have now made the pretext of assuming the character of dervishes are engaged in praising the Ancient Beauty through hints and allusions in corners and streets and marketplaces, and are accustomed to encouraging people by singing ghazals and spiritual songs. These souls should abandon this practice henceforth, but for now it is causing encouragement among the people and no one should interfere with them. However, if anyone should engage in wandering about, this is highly reprehensible and contrary to the religion of God and incompatible with detachment and causes the humiliation of the Cause of God. AB07416
