like the shining moon the light of guidance is clear and evident therein, and "in their faces beameth the brightness of bliss" is proof and testimony to that  AB06642


Lo, today the loved ones of God must appear among the servants in such wise that they may guide all to the paradise of the All-Glorious through their deeds.  BH11046

We hope that this meeting with us will yield results that shall illumine the hearts and irradiate the souls with the light of supreme guidance.  ABU3708

In one direction you will see the lights of the radiance of guidance; in the other direction the Sun of Reality will shine.  ABU2090

the illumined heart of man partaketh of that guidance through the light of the All-Merciful  AB09042


For guidance is the medicine of the spirit and the cause of spiritual victories - it is healing for the soul and a remedy of joy and delight for the heart. When wisdom shines with spiritual radiance it becomes guidance, and when its lights beam upon the body it becomes medicine. Therefore, one who combines these two qualities and possesses these two virtues - which in essence are one reality but appear as two realities in relation to the spiritual and physical worlds - is a perfect person.  AB06886

each of whom may become a luminous lamp in the sanctuary of divine unity and a merciful teacher in the school of divine love  AB04066

It is hoped that you will educate souls under the shade of the Divine Word and lead them to the fountain of everlasting life   AB04190

engage in such deeds and actions as will cause the awakening and education of souls...teaching the Cause of God and educating souls  AB03496

Be thou the cause of the education of souls, and in the school of divine knowledge become a teacher of love and impart the science of truth.  AB08367

Rest ye assured that ye are confirmed. All these people are like unto sheep without shepherd. They have no protector and no defender. But you are the sheep and the Blessed Perfection is your Shepherd. He is kind to his flock.   ABU2262

Guide thou the desolate ones to the treasury of the spirit and inform the dwellers in the dust of the tidings of the heavenly realm. This is the disposition of the friends of God, such are the attributes of the lovers of the Abha Beauty.  AB05118

At most it is this, that some souls are ignorant, they must be educated; some are sick, they must be healed; some are still of tender age, they must be helped to attain maturity, and the utmost kindness must be shown to them. This is the conduct of the people of Baha.   AB03928

It is incumbent upon thee to summon the people, under all conditions, to whatever will cause them to show forth spiritual characteristics and goodly deeds, so that all may become aware of that which is the cause of human upliftment, and may, with the utmost endeavor, direct themselves towards the most sublime Station and the Pinnacle of Glory.  BH00005

Necessarily there will be some who are defective amongst men, but it is our duty to enable them by kind methods of guidance and teaching to become perfected. Some will be found who are morally sick; they should be treated in order that they may be healed. Others are immature and like children; they must be trained and educated so that they may become wise and mature.  ABU0009

It is incumbent upon thee to acquire the various branches of knowledge, and to turn thy face toward the beauty of the Manifest Beauty, that thou mayest be a sign of saving guidance amongst the peoples of the world, and a focal center of understanding in this sphere from which the wise and their wisdom are shut out, except for those who set foot in the Kingdom of lights and become informed of the veiled and hidden mystery, the well-guarded secret.  AB03423

"He was questioned as to the reality of a story related by a young Episcopal clergyman, that on one occasion he saw Mirza Abul Fazl surrounded by a halo, as he taught the people at Green Acre, Maine." "The light is of four kinds: first, the light of the sun. It reveals objects to our perception, but cannot itself realize them. Second, the light of the eye. It can realize objects, but cannot understand them. Third, the light of wisdom. This both realizes and understand objects. Fourth, the Light of Guidance. This is the Supreme Light, the conscious Reality which comprehends mysteries."  ABU3447

Shine like a star and glow like a candle.  AB09161


to make you signs of guidance among mankind   AB03539

Be thou enkindled...and illumine those countries  AB08891

Thus thou mayest set a good example in that region  AB05451

Like bright candles may they illuminate the realm.  AB02102

"Then you will be a source of guidance to others."  ABU2917

become the cause of guidance for the blind and deaf   AB05529

You received this gift freely, so freely give it away  AB07418

Be ye guides of the Merciful One amidst all creation.   BH07195

becomes an illuminating candle to the world of humanity  AB10586

Giving is a divine quality. Blessed are those who give!  ABU2496

this will surely become the cause of guidance for people  BH07536

illuminate the horizons with the lights of sanctification  AB06256

I hope you will become that flame to enkindle the hearts.  ABU3415

so that you may shine like a candle and gleam like a star   AB07255

so that she may be the cause of the enlightenment of others  AB12592

become the cause of enlightening hearts and gladdening souls  AB05197

from your countenance will shine forth the light of guidance  AB09596

shine like a candle among the handmaidens of the All-Merciful  AB11709

thou wilt become a cause of the illumination of the human world  AB10098

I beseech God to make ye the signs of guidance amidst mankind.   AB03531

May you become a lamp lighted with the Fire of the Love of God   ABU2177

through the light of the love of God, thou art an ignited candle.  AB06854

that you may become a luminous lamp in the assemblage of humanity  AB03415

"that ye may each become a lighted candle in the world of humanity"  AB05042

this lamp will become a brilliant torch and bestow light upon India   AB06197

The loved ones of the All-Merciful must each become like a lamp aflame  AB10131

so that you may shine upon ages and cycles like unto the morning star!  AB06411

Then and not until then will the Light of Reality illumine that country.  AB10772

make each of those friends a bright candle and a light of the gathering   AB02546

"Thus may I enkindle the light of guidance in the hearts of Thy servants."  AB05973

And verily I beseech God to make them signs of guidance amongst all peoples.  AB08253

"O friends! Be as lamps unto the darkened world and as light unto its gloom."  BH08563

strive at all times with heart and soul to become a lamp of the All-Merciful   AB07468

that thou mayest become a dawning-place of lights and a recipient of mysteries  AB12674

Verily He is the Lamp of Guidance unto all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH11475

Strive thou to become a sign of guidance and a mirror of the Concourse on High.  AB09224

This drawing nigh is through the guidance of souls and the attraction of hearts   AB11876

He will verily assist thee through His grace, and He is the Mighty, the Powerful.  BH02803

"that thou mayest become like unto a candle that giveth light to its inhabitants"   AB03695

May each one of you shine upon each city through which you pass as a radiant star!  ABU0397

If the people ask thee whether thou art English or French, tell them I am a Baha'i.  ABU2718

The fruit of existence in this day is to hold fast to that which shall guide mankind.  BH09037

shine like unto a torch in the assemblies and bestow upon them the light of guidance.  AB05299

like unto a candle thou mayest illuminate every meeting with the light of recognition  AB09240

At that time ye would become illumined lamps, spiritual stars: rather, eternal suns.   AB02446

thou shalt become a sign of guidance and a bright candle in the assemblage of humanity  AB04710

shine like a candle in the human world and gleam like a star from the horizon of truth  AB04790

and a lamp in the utmost purity, through which the Light of God's attraction shines forth  AB11087

I beseech God that they may become illuminers of hearts and bestowers of devotion to souls  AB09355

make them fountains of guidance, lamps in the darkest night, brilliant and luminous stars   AB06011

in such wise that each of the handmaidens may witness in thee the signs of the love of God   BH08132

In this glorious day each one must become a night-illumining lamp and enlighten the world.   AB05885

In whatever land thou dwellest, may thou be a sign of guidance and a standard of righteousness  AB05832

Guidance hath been distinguished from error, yet the people, in their drunkenness, remain blind  AB04193

The Sun of Truth hath risen above the horizon of this world and cast down its beams of guidance.  AB05295

that thereby thou mayest be a luminous lamp and a shining star...and remove the darkness of night  AB10746

I love to look upon thy face, for it is glittering with the light of guidance among the creatures  AB10786

Verily it guides the servants to the straight path and preserves them from every wicked oppressor   BH04518

"are raising the call to the divine Kingdom and are the cause of illumination of the human world"   AB07572

They are the stars of the horizon of meanings and the candles of the gathering of the All-Merciful.   AB06938

and that you will become a sign of guidance and a cause of illumination of the hearts of the friends  AB06278

As to presenting the teachings by word, the teacher must be as a skillful physician to the patient.   ABU3222

Who hath confirmed thee and guided thee... Verily He created thee and revealed thee and guided thee.   BH08501

Praise be to God that like unto a torch thou hast been ignited, and like unto a star thou hast shone.  AB07863

Be thou a lamp of guidance among the people and a dawning-place of utterance through this Great Name.   BH01413

'Abdu'l-Baha's desire is that each of the friends become a flame of light and a world-illumining torch  AB01337

in such wise that the people of the earth may perceive and recognize from him the warmth of divine love  BH08131

Fix your gaze upon and hold fast to this blessed word which is like a lamp in the darkness of the world.  BH09335

"Thus mayest thou be a mercy to the people of the world and a source of bounty to the world of humanity"   AB06848

Therefore, adopt such a way and manner of conduct that thou mayest become the cause of guidance to others.  AB09319

I beseech God to make you a candle for that gathering so that the light of knowledge may emanate from you   AB04975

Let us all become candles of faithfulness that burn for Him! Let us shed His light of guidance all around!  AB04056

May you become a source of illumination and, through divine bounty, attain success in the celestial Kingdom  AB09693

make him a sign of Thy remembrance amidst mankind and the banner of guidance on the far side of the valley   AB06552

so that it may become a bright candle in the gathering of the horizons and a light for the assembly of concord  AB10838

so that each might become a brilliant lamp and in this victorious day shed the light that illumines the night   AB07407

be so enkindled that thou mayest illumine a region, become a sign of guidance and an ensign of the love of God   AB06274

Be thou a lamp of the remembrance of thy Lord amongst His servants, that through thee may be illumined the faces   BH06318

so that thou mayest be a banner of guidance and the essence of piety among the maid-servants of thy Supreme Lord.  AB06435

shine forth in the assemblage of the world such that you may breathe the spirit of eternal life into their hearts  AB12399

I hope that each Baha'i will become a radiant candle. A fragrant rose, a divine messenger and a heavenly trumpet.  ABU1224

each one of those blessed souls may become like a bright candle shedding the light of guidance to every direction  AB03124

upon him who hath been guided and found the right path, and fire be upon him who hath disbelieved and gone astray   BH06774

We must become flaming torches and the burning Fire of God. We must move this world and illumine this dark globe.   AB03889

"Come! Come! I will be thy guide. I will take thee through its broad avenues shaded by verdant, never-fading trees."  ABU0976

My desire is that these two blessed souls become two shining candles and make that region a niche of brilliant light   AB11792

Be radiant and brilliant in this luminous gathering so that thy rays may ascend and reach the threshold of the Kingdom   AB07466

I pray for all of them that each may prove as a light to the globe of Germany, and a shining star to the German horizon.  AB12295

Therefore, ask thou of God that thou mayest be, in all conditions, a dawning-place of guidance and a dayspring of favor.  AB10968

Today the handmaidens of God must be diffusers of the light of guidance and must radiate the brilliance of steadfastness  AB09811

O pure souls! In this Dawning Place of Lights which is the cycle of the Lord, be stars of guidance and planets of piety.  AB04783

you must become the shining candles of moral precepts and spiritual ideals and be the means of the illumination of others  ABU2398

Shouldst thou become assisted with such Bestowals thou shalt be the means of the guidance of thy family as well as others.  AB08816

I hope that through this system of Baha'i education you may become the light-reflecting lamps of the Assemblage of mankind.  ABU1633

Nothing is better than that man should become a manifestor of the powers of God and the cause of illuminating the creatures.  AB08183

However, now the Most Exalted Pen counseleth concealment and protection, and that which wisdom requireth in all circumstances.  BH11874

I hope that each one will become, through the mouth of wisdom and the flame of recognition, a candle illuminating that region   AB04269

One man may be the cause of the illumination of one city, filling that city with his services and his impersonal personality.   ABU1643

It shows the way and brings seekers to their quest and pursuers to their goal. It is the protector, the helper and the assistant.   BH11402

We have guided the people to the Most Great Path - among them are those who have turned towards it and those who have turned away   BH10267

thou wilt be a lamp of guidance from which the lights of knowledge will emanate and spread in those far counties and distant lands  AB06538

When the heart of man is made happy, he will arise to serve the believers of God. Then that service will give him great happiness.  ABU1658

follow such a path in the way of the Glorious Lord that it becomes the cause of guidance for the heedless and a lesson for others   AB11896

that they may shine in this darkened world like unto bright stars; educate all the communities of the world in the precepts of love   AB02575

Show ye kindness to all; be ye engaged in the refinement of the souls. Become ye as ignited lamps and adorn ye the orchard of being!  AB00205

I wish for them this illumination. I desire for them this luminosity; so that they may rejoice the hearts and spiritualize the souls   ABU2407

He hath taught mankind the way of prosperity and made known unto them that which profiteth them, and guided them to His extended path.  BH06730

Welcome, welcome to a servant who hath become a lamp of guidance and a niche for the light of piety among the people of understanding!  AB08435

so that the loved ones of the All-Merciful may shine forth in the assemblage of the world like lamps of guidance and lights of piety.   AB02582

I supplicate to the divine Presence to make them signs of guidance among humanity and brilliant lamps shedding light upon all horizons   AB07043

be a manifest sign of the light of the bountiful Lord, the Pre-existent King, and become a banner on the highway of the Most Great Name   AB07464

You became a bright candle in the assembly of lovers... until from your kindling and burning, lights may shine forth upon those regions   AB03173

Become adorned with these attributes so that you may become illumined candles for the human world and divine stars for this dark world.   AB02361

I pray for you all. I ask God's blessings to descend upon you. May each one of you be as the light from a lamp to enlighten an assembly.  ABU2077

Counsel the people and remind them of this Mighty News. Say: O people! The clouds have been rent asunder and the Lord of Lords hath come.  BH01855

Each one of those holy souls become like unto a fruitful tree and be ignited like unto the candle of guidance in the assemblage of mankind  AB01571

that the light of reality and the rays of divine knowledge may become manifest from thy countenance and the signs of bounty may shine forth  AB10619

Kindle such a fire that it may bestow the warmth of the love of God upon hearts, and light such a lamp that it may illumine the dark world.  AB03226

Praise be to the Goal of the world that He guided thee and directed thee to the straight path. Thou hast heard what Moses heard upon the Mount  BH07946

He hath made it the Lamp of Guidance amongst all created things and the Light of Salvation unto all who dwell within the realm of possibility.   BH08230

Never let the candle of your heart become extinct. Strive to increase its light. Add to it the oil of wisdom. Illumine every one with its rays.  ABU2349

endeavor to gain a great portion of these Favors of God, to share largely in this great Bounty, to become a manifestation of the Signs of His Great Mercy.   AB06374

O thou attracted one of the Kingdom! Complete thou the study of the art of music and sacrifice thyself more or less to the Lord of the Kingdom.   AB05941

Be thou a brilliant light unto the darkness and a shining moon unto the gloomy night, that thou mayest become manifest in the heaven of the soul.  AB10480

that in that city thou mayest be a centre for the Baha'is, for the assemblage of the spiritually minded and for the guidance of a vast multitude   AB04407

The blessings of GOD were bestowed upon us, not for our own selfish gratification, but that we should make use of them for the benefit of others.   ABU2015

Enter like men and cast the ball in the field, until you forget everything and become a luminous essence and a gem of the mine of the All-Merciful.  AB04652

Now is the time for thee to put forth leaves and blossoms, to yield fruit and produce, and to appear in the branches of truth with perfect adorning   AB10629

Strive thou similarly to become the cause of other people's life so that the Splendor of the Oneness of the world of Humanity may enlighten the eyes.  AB06488

supplicate God to make thee a sign of guidance in the midst of people who are veiled from God; perchance they may be guided to the Orb of all horizons  AB07110

I will pray for you that you may become the cause of upraising the lights of God. May everyone point to you and ask, "Why are these people so happy?"   ABU1888

Therefore, O thou man! Strive that thou mayst likewise become enlightened, thus becoming the means of general education and the upliftment of humanity.   ABU1100

O Shoghi! Beseech God that thou mayest become a brilliant lamp in the assemblage of the spiritual ones and attain unto the breaths of the All-Merciful.   AB11489

The honored maidservant of God Mrs. Goodall and the attracted maidservant of God Mrs. Cooper are truly two candles lit with the light of the love of God.  AB02399

I desire that every one of the believers may become an ignited candle in the assemblage of the world of humanity, and conducive to others' eternal life.   ABU2867

Thanks be to God for having guided thee and proffered the cup of bestowal and sent down the heavenly table, of which whosoever partaketh shall never die.  AB08364

Enter in, that thou mayest shine forth like the stars in the horizon of the universe and, like the life-giving bounty, nurture all the people of the world  AB09876

be thou assured that thou shalt become an enkindled lamp, spreading the lights of faith, assurance, knowledge and the love of God in every gathering-place  AB07477

O Lord! Make them stars of guidance, missiles against the foolish, candles kindled with the fire of Thy love, and lines speaking the meanings of fidelity.  AB00449

Grant such an outpouring that its lights may spread in the eternal morn; bestow such a grace that its effects may become renowned in the everlasting realm.  AB03626

Through unity the horizons shall become illumined and radiant. We beseech God to aid them with hosts of angels and with the forces of wisdom and utterance.   BH00877

may you be the signs of guidance and the standards of the Abha Kingdom, may you be pearls in the shell of grace and dawning-places of the lights of guidance   AB06958

At all times there can be heard from all things that which is the prime cause for the guidance of the peoples and the supreme means for the salvation of all.   BH06038

...so that each of you may become a candle, literally a light of guidance, and a manifestor of power. As Bahais you will be accepted as a proof of Baha'o'llah.  ABU1485

Man must so adorn himself with good attributes, attractions and divine characteristics that he may become the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity  ABU2851


In the gathering of friends they must be radiant candles, and in the assemblies of sanctification and the chamber of divine unity, they must be burning torches.   AB03913

Therefore, you must strive to outstrip all others, that you may be numbered among those who have preceded, who have preceded - these are they who are brought nigh.  AB09420

This comes through education. The seed became a tree through the training of the gardener. Man attains to perfection through the education of the divine Instructor.  ABU2250

Now that thou hast returned to thy familiar abode, thou must become there a ray of divine bounty and the heat of the Sun of the munificence of the All-Merciful Lord.  AB09386

It is the hope of 'Abdu'l-Baha that ye will attain His highest aspirations for you, and that each one of you may become a luminous lamp, a bright, and shining light.  AB03781

They who in these days have remained heedless of Him are in manifest error, while they who have been guided by the light of His countenance are upon a straight path.   BH06306

Fear God and sow not corruption in the land of love. This is what teacheth you He Who is seated upon the preserved Tablets through the pen of the holy and beloved One.  BH07875

"you will find your way to the mystery of truth and become a source of illumination to the human world. You will become pure goodness and a divine mercy for humankind."   AB05117

I hope that like this mirror you will make hearts pure and clean and sanctified so that they may reflect the lights of the perfections and bounties of the Sun of Truth.   ABU2551

I pray to God that you both may be ignited like candles, so that you may burn the veils that enshroud that country and city, and become the cause of guidance for the people  AB12341

Therefore, O thou who circlest round the Concourse on High, beseech God to grant thee such a station that the grace of hearing and sight may flow from thee to other souls.   AB06789

strive that the light of faith may shine forth in their hearts. It would be a pity if they remain unaware among the kindred and be deprived of the bounty of the All-Merciful.  AB11031

through the protection and help vouchsafed by Baha'u'llah, thou mayest raise aloft in London a blazing torch that may endure eternally and cause that land to become illumined   AB07387

Thou art honoured in my sight, and I pray to God that thou wilt become as a beacon of guidance in that region, brilliant with the effulgence of the oneness of the human world.   AB06149

Therefore I hope that thou may'st make extraordinary and universal progress in the Cause of Baha'u'llah, become ignited like unto a candle and shed radiance on all that region   AB03301

they illuminate earth and heaven with the rays of the Sun of the love of God, becoming luminous stars in the horizon of hope and the dawning-place of aspirations the Merciful Morn  AB10656

Therefore we are expecting that every one of those friends may in that country become like a brilliant and luminous candle, and so the Light of Guidance may emanate upon the hearts.  AB08278


Make dead souls alive and make withered hearts fresh and verdant, so that thou mayest witness the praise of the Abha Kingdom and hear the call of approval from the Supreme Concourse.   AB04833

Behold this Revelation and what appeareth from it with His eye, that ye may be illumined by the light of His countenance and that Our heedless servants may be enlightened through you.   BH02442

Thank thou God that in that country thou hast become assisted to raise the call of the Kingdom and like unto the Candle thou hast become ignited and art diffusing the light of guidance.  AB08467

It is my hope through the bounties of Baha'u'llah that thou mayest progress day by day in the Kingdom so that like unto a candle thou mayest become ignited with the light of the love of God.  AB09194

Therefore the people of the world seek truth in the realm of contingent existence rather than at the center. And when they find it not, they become captive to weariness and companion to woe.  AB05153

Let your endeavor be to guide a soul from the gulf of mortality to the fountain of immortality, and to conduct yourselves among men in such wise that the signs of Truth may be manifest in you   BH00970

Thus mayest thou become a son of wisdom and a directive from the All-Merciful and Most Compassionate. May the signs of spirituality, luminosity and divine mercy be manifest in all thy members.  AB09337

Through them the brilliant stars grew dim on the darkest night, and the lights of truth shone forth in the darkened regions. Through them Thou hast caused the fountains of wisdom to flow forth  AB02867

We must, like a candle, shine with the light of Baha'o'llah, in order that through your efforts this darkness may be dispelled. The light of the love of God can illumine the East and the West.  ABU1152

Misleading is the lack of guidance. Guidance is the Gift of GOD, and if a person is deprived of it, he will be misled, but he is not misled by GOD, it is only the lack of the Gift of Guidance.  ABU2521

Show forth constancy that you may become a lamp of guidance. Become a herald of truth that you may hear the melody of the Kingdom. Become a sweet-singing bird that you may bring hearts into motion.  AB04043

"Rather, through the endless favors of the All-Merciful Lord, be like a candle illumining every gathering, so that souls might receive glad-tidings, hearts might find joy, eyes might be brightened"  AB01272

The person who is a herald to the Divine Kingdom is like unto a lamp and the souls who possess high ideals are like the moths. When the lamp is ignited unquestionably all the moths gather around it.   AB05977

Like Joseph of Egypt, one must display beauty in the marketplace and manifest spiritual grace and charm. Surely through the power of attraction, thousands of seekers from various peoples will appear.  AB10172

Arise and fulfil the admonitions of the Abha Beauty and follow the path of His counsels so that the glancing beams of thy spirit might illumine the world of humanity and thou mayest guide other souls   AB04656


I hope thou mayest become, through the Favour and Bounty of the Blessed Perfection, the means of guiding others, and in the community of the world light a candle whose effulgence shall be everlasting.   AB03883

"Now that you are leaving, there must come from you good news. News which will give me happiness. This is my utmost hope; that each one of you may become a bright candle in the Kingdom of Baha'o'llah."  ABU1065

Say: O people of the earth! The Sun of certitude hath risen, and the Ocean of knowledge surgeth, and the heaven of grace is uplifted. Cast away what ye possess, then turn toward the Most Sublime Horizon   BH08870

I am hopeful from the Infinite Bestowals of His Highness the Merciful that like unto the Clouds of God's Bounty you may pour upon all the regions and like unto the rays of the sun shine over that country.  ABU2302


And now, I hope that thou shalt become the cause of the illumination of souls, so that they may acquire a heavenly nature, and that thy goodly character may exert its influence upon a vast number of people.  AB12027

Make him a brilliant star and a radiant orb. Make him a remedy for every ill and a healing balm for every wound. Make him a bright candle in every gathering and a sweet-singing nightingale in every assembly.  AB09712

Therefore, with supreme confidence and certitude, say: O God! Make me a radiant light, a shining lamp, and a brilliant star, so that I may illumine the hearts with an effulgent ray from Thy Kingdom of Abha....  AB05052

Like unto the lamps give light to all those who come in touch with you. Every day shed a new light over the dark minds of humanity. Illumine the dark corners of the world like unto the flame of a burning torch.  ABU0567

And thou, beseech God that He leave thee not to thyself, that thou mayest remain steadfast in thy love and be of them that return unto God Who created thee and guided thee and made thee to be of the guided ones.   BH06948

When thou attainest to this most exalted station and art confirmed in this supreme bounty, thou shalt become a light of guidance in the dawning-place of creation and a ray of radiance in the horizon of eternity.   AB06238

"each one will shine like a bright star from the horizon of the Most Great Guidance, become the cause of guidance for others, make the eyes of souls seeing, make the ears of others hearing, and make hearts aware"   AB05543

The time has come for you to return from the Mount of Revelation with the white hand of supreme guidance, and in every gathering to shine like a candle so that sightless eyes may be illumined by the light of guidance   AB05780

O Lord! Make them brilliant stars and radiant lamps, and towering trees, that their fruits may spread forth in the garden of divine traces, and through them the hearts of the free may be drawn to the Kingdom of Beauty.  AB05989

Then shall the realities of this contingent world and the human essence gain a new spirit and the friends, even as shining stars upon the horizon of truth, become illumined and resplendent through the light of guidance.  AB06414

The ray must shed light and the sun must rise; the full moon must shine and the star must gleam. Since thou art a ray, beseech thou the Lord to enable thee to give illumination and enlightenment, to brighten the horizons  AB10531

O illumined candle! You have kindled a countenance of supreme beauty and grace...As long as the dust of servitude at the Sacred Threshold adorns face and hair, the radiance of beauty emanates brilliantly from human features.  AB08773

those spiritual friends, like the hoopoe bird of love, guide souls to the divine Sheba, that they may reach the Balqis of divine guidance in the assembly of the Garden of Eden and enter beneath the shade of the true Solomon   AB05673

that perchance some souls may arise in this world's gathering who, like unto candles, will bestow light upon all assembled there, and who, like unto flowers and sweet herbs in this heavenly garden, will diffuse their fragrance  AB02241

"The favors of the Lord are manifold; but the bounty of guidance is a matchless one, incomparable to all other bounties. It is the source of all good, and it repels all harm; it attracteth the invisible bountiful gifts of God."  AB06847

Praise be to God that the light of guidance hath shone forth and illumined the court of the heart. This was a gift from the Lord of Hosts that the divine call reached the ear of the soul and the message of the Kingdom was heard   AB05592

Therefore, every countenance wherein this divine splendor exists is a luminous star and a morning luminary that guideth the wandering caravan unto the path of guidance and leadeth the lost multitude unto the way of righteousness.  AB07866

"I supplicate to God that He may cause ye to become two lamps resplendent with the Light of the Love of God and Two shining stars at the Horizon of the Knowledge of God; that the lights of Guidance may radiate from ye upon all men"  AB03823

Make this suppliant soul like a bright candle so that in every gathering it may be engaged in Your remembrance, kindle the light of guidance, and like a lamp burn in the assembly of the All-Merciful and bestow light upon the friends.  AB03975

If a great tree in the forest is ablaze it will set others on fire; if you plant a palm its roots spread in every direction.  ABU2077

Therefore, since thou hast been enkindled with the love of God, thou art radiant, brilliant and effulgent. Beseech God that thou mayest ever remain illumined and that through the holy fragrances thou mayest perfume the nostrils of others  AB09654

Ere long ye will, with your own eyes, witness how brilliantly every one of you, even as a shining star, will radiate in the firmament of your country the light of Divine Guidance and will bestow upon its people the glory of an everlasting life.  AB11305

As radiant as a star on the horizon of existence, as the realms of the heart and mind, he would be like unto a candle in the assemblage of man and like the ignited fire of the one true Lord would he be aflame in the midmost heart of this world.   AB04349

Therefore ye who are intoxicated with this wine and are worshippers in this tavern, become wholly inebriated and raise melodies and songs, that others too may be stirred to motion and may not remain deprived of the bounties of the Lord of creation.  AB08344

O radiant lamp of the love of God! Shed thy splendor upon the axis of the horizons and cast thy rays upon the hearts of the people of concord, so that hearts may ever become lamps of guidance and the lights of reality may shine upon the world of souls.  AB08772

Verily, I supplicate God to enkindle in thy heart the fire of His love; an enkindlement the light of which shall affect all regions, so that thy face may become illumined by the lights of the Spirit and give forth fragrance in the world of possibility.   AB06536

Never is it the wish of Abdu'l-Baha to see any being hurt, nor will He make anyone to grieve; for man can receive no greater gift than this, that he rejoice another's heart. I beg of God that ye will be bringers of joy, even as are the angels in Heaven.   AB01432

The time has come for you to dedicate your moments to witnessing the divine effulgence and to walk and conduct yourselves according to the divine counsels and exhortations, that you may become the cause of awakening others and reminding the heedless ones.  AB01427

Make each a candle of the gathering, a witness to the assembly, a cypress in this meadow, and a peacock in this garden, that they may bestow adornment upon the world, spread this manifest light, and illumine their foreheads with the rays of ancient bounty.  AB01617

In brief, let each one of you be as a lamp shining forth with the light of the virtues of the world of humanity. Be trustworthy, sincere, affectionate and replete with chastity. Be illumined, be spiritual, be divine, be glorious, be quickened of God, be a Baha'i.   ABU1122

you will become the very soul of that clime, the lamp of that city, a brilliant moon in the horizon of the world, and a rising star in the dawning-place of the hopes of the friends, becoming in every gathering a sign of guidance and the standard of the Abha Kingdom.  AB03145

I hope that you four sanctified souls may become like unto ignited lamps in that region (America), bestow illumination to all around and become the cause of the attraction, spirituality and severance of the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful in those parts.  AB08647

You must become the lamps of Baha'u'llah so that you may shine with eternal light and be the proofs and evidences of His truth. Then will such signs of purity and chastity be witnessed in your deeds and actions that men will behold the heavenly radiance of your lives.   ABU0596

Surely, if some holy souls appear and arise to befittingly carry out the commandments and precepts of God, and be engaged in His service, they will verily become centres of light; an illuminating ray will extend from their hearts to all regions and the continent will become radiant.  AB01462

for that near one of the Divine Threshold has, from early youth, grown and developed under the shade of the favors of the All-Glorious like a fresh sapling under the outpourings of the cloud of divine mercy, and has become a fruitful tree. Now is the time for the appearance of fruit.  AB00558

In the chambers of their hearts they have set aglow the light of Guidance, are not men in error? In the blue heaven of their consciences they have studied luminous stars of inspiration, will they not direct the wandering steps of the weary travelers in the sandy desert of heedlessness?  ABU2180

Be ye loving fathers to the orphan, and a refuge to the helpless, and a treasury for the poor, and a cure for the ailing. Be ye the helpers of every victim of oppression, the patrons of the disadvantaged. Think ye at all times of rendering some service to every member of the human race.  AB00104

The hope from the favors of the Glorious Lord is that you may have a countenance illumined by the lights of the Kingdom, and that in this world of mortality you may become the cause of the spread of heavenly bounties, and in this dusty realm of evanescence you may kindle a luminous lamp   AB06105

Be thou an ignited candle of guidance. My hope is that thou mayest become the dawning place of the most great Sign and the manifestation of the most great bestowals. In the presence of the friends be thou a resplendent light and on the horizon of the all-Merciful be a scintillating star.  AB09278

They who have believed and been guided by God's guidance - these are they who are truly guided. And they who have disbelieved and turned away - these shall be brought forth in the fire. Thus hath it been ordained for this one and that, could ye but perceive with the eye of the spirit in all things.  BH11774

guide the weak souls to the divine Covenant with utmost kindness so they may drink from the cup of oneness... But never abandon the weak ones and do not lose hope. Explain to each one with perfect kindness and do not become discouraged. Eventually they will become aware and cognizant of the truth.   AB03598

May you become illumined, each as candles through the Light of Guidance, and like unto an ocean -- by the winds of love of God shall you surge. May you become green and fresh and verdant by the breezes of the favor of God. May you yield the fruits of the Kingdom, being the cause of guidance to the people of the earth.   ABU0926

Be thou so detached from the material world that whosoever comes in contact with thee - if he is extinguished he may become illumined, if he is silent he may unloose his tongue, if he is withered he may be refreshed and put forth leaves and blossoms, if he is blind he may receive sight, if he is dead he may be resuscitated.  AB05979

Today, the friends of God are the illumined candles of the world of humanity; unless the candle burns it will not bestow light. Every one of the Bahais must be like unto a globe of fire, and as a blaze of light-dispel the darkness of ignorance with the lights of service, adorn the horizon of the world with brilliant stars.   ABU0674

Praise be to God Who, through His all-encompassing mercy, guided His servants from the west of error to the east of guidance and caused them to attain from the darkness of doubt to the dawn of certitude. Therefore, blessed is the one who was illumined by this true dawn, and deprived is the soul who remained bereft and destitute.  BH09978

You must live and conduct yourself in Cairo in such a manner and characterize thyself with such attributes that when people come in contact with thee they may feel thy spiritual influence, that if they are earthly they may become heavenly, if they are blind, they may find sight, if they are dead they may become quickened, if they are material they may become spiritual.  ABU1935

Be a fountain of life unto the thirsty and a guide unto the erring. Be a breath of morning over the meadows and a springtime shower for every rose and orchard fruit. Give sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf. Set ablaze the frozen ones and waken those who sleep so that thou mayest shine like a scintillating star and a bright light of guidance on the Supreme Horizon.  AB03487

Now that you are leaving this Holy Spot you must go away laden with the Divine Glad-tidings, each one of you must be a flame of the Love of God and a bright candle in the meeting of the friends,- so that whosoever comes in touch with you bear testimony that verily these people are the sweet flowers if the garden of reality and the singing nightingales of the Paradise of Abha.  ABU0249

Bestow upon them the everlasting life and bless them with the new teachings. Make every one a lighted torch and a warbling nightingale-the king of the rose in the garden. Reveal to them Thine attractive beauty; make each a growing tree on the shore of Thy guidance, bearing the fruit of Thy grace. Thus may the East illumine the West and the West become the East of the Supreme Heaven.  AB03718

Verily, by day and by night I do mention thee and thy daughter who is the delight of thine eye, and supplicate God to make you both two burning lamps, shining at the meetings of the maid-servants of God, spreading the light of knowledge, burning the moth of imaginations and surmise and removing, through the light of manifest evidences and peremptory proofs, the darkness of suspicions.  AB07705

There are several kinds of guidance. There is guidance by the tongue, which consists in acknowledging and recognizing the oneness of the Beauty of the All-Merciful and in the heart's admission and certitude, which is a bounty from the Lord God. But complete bounty and perfect guidance consist in the radiant lights of the Sun of Truth encompassing the wayfarer from all directions of his being and essence.  AB08245

Thou must express the utmost satisfaction and thanks to Mrs. . . . .. , for she hath guided thee and beckoned thee to the everlasting universe. For thee she desired perpetual glory and for thee she asked life eternal. Therefore strive in order that in the divine vineyard thou mayest become a gardener of Truth and live with such deeds and words that thou mayest become the cause of the enlightenment of the world.   AB06918


May this boundless love so fill your hearts and minds that sadness may find no room to enter and may you with joyful hearts soar like birds into the Divine Radiance. May your hearts become clear and pure like unto polished mirrors in which may be reflected the full glory of the Sun of Truth. I pray for each and all that you may be as flames of love in the world, and that the brightness of your light and the warmth of your affection may reach the heart of every sad and sorrowing child of God. May you be as shining stars, bright and luminous for ever in the Kingdom.   ABU1814

When you make a friend, or associate with one, try to be the cause of joy and happiness to him. If he should come to you sad, make him joyful. Now your home should be in such a condition, your actions so harmonious, your love so evident, that if, perchance, a cold or unworthy one should enter, you must treat such a one in such a way that he or she will go away aflame with the Love of GOD. If one enters your home as an extinguished candle, you must kindle him and set his heart aglow, so that he will leave a radiant candle. Should they enter sad, they must go away happy; should they come hopeless, they must leave in great hope. In fact, briefly, if they come as dead, they should go away as alive.   ABU0811
In any case, I hope that you will become the cause of illuminating souls so they may acquire divine qualities, and that your good character will influence multitudes of souls.  AB12834
 
