Be a channel for bounty, nay rather become yourself true bounty  AB05265

the teacher himself must be infinitely affected at the time of teaching   AB04273


the Holy Spirit will be heard from his lips and the spirit of life will fill his heart  AB11119

Truth (the highest truth) is unattainable except through the favor of the Holy Spirit.  ABU3624

Each one of you should strive with all your heart to become a manifestor of God's inspiration.  ABU1485

"If he be entirely detached and emptied of self he will be enabled to start in a cold heart a great fire."  ABU1652

"Shouldst thou become entirely attached to the Kingdom of ABHA, thou shalt find the Holy Spirit always thy companion"  AB03622

he breathed on the souls and spirits of all the Bahais in such a way that had it been upon bone, it would have taken on flesh   ABU2294

You are the rays of the Sun of Reality; bestow upon them light. You are the water of eternal life; allay the thirst of mankind.   ABU2236

when the tongue of the teacher is engaged in teaching, he will naturally himself be stimulated, will become a magnet attracting the divine aid and bounty of the Kingdom  AB10259

Indeed thou wilt see the teachings of God spread in those regions by the breath of the Holy Spirit, and thou wilt discover the fragrances of the paradise of the Kingdom.   AB05980

the Holy Spirit breathes into his mouth and the spirit of life into his heart, the lights of verses shine from his face, words scatter like strings of pearls from his mouth  AB02456

Rest ye assured that the Breathes of the Holy Spirit shall inspire you with the power of speech. Consequently loosen your tongues and speak in every meeting with undaunted courage.  AB10294

But it is essential that you should be enkindled by the breath of the Holy Spirit and with full firmness and perseverance you should enkindle the fire of the love of God in the heart  AB07598

Thus like unto Holy Spirit itself thou mayest give life to the dead and quicken the bodies of human kind, like the breezes of paradise thou mayest render this world a garden of Ridvan.  AB04089

A sincere worker in the Cause of God is always assisted by the Divine Spirit when such questions arise. The Truth will flow through you if you stand in the right attitude toward the Truth.   ABU3090

Verily, thy Lord hath breathed the spirit of argument into thy mouth. Speak thou in the most wonderful explanation and meditate not at the time of advancing proofs, evidences and signs, and speak thou that which the Spirit inspireth thee.   AB01860

Guidance is due to the Power of the Holy Spirit. He who wishes to become a teacher, must first instill in his own heart the attributes thus mentioned, namely: attraction, zeal and severance from attachments to mortal things. Then will he be astounded by the forthcoming results.  ABU1137

Therefore my advice to you is: Become ye ignited with that Flame, be ye enkindled with that Fire! Never let the light of your spirit die out, protect it from the gales of the stormy nights, shield it from the raging tempest of the outside world and guard it from the turbulent hurricane of the wintry season.  ABU0990

O God! Make me a hollow reed from which the pith of self hath been blown, that I may become a clear channel through which Thy love may flow to others. I beg of Thee to assist me at all times and under all conditions to be ready to serve and to help, to suppress every selfish desire and to make of my heart a fountain of love.  AB11183

The Jews who became Christians in the apostolic and after apostolic age were not attracted to the Christian doctrine by hospitals etc. On the contrary, they were beaten, persecuted and killed. Notwithstanding these things they accepted Christ. Why was this? Because those early teachers possessed the "heavenly power”. With that power they were enabled to carry the gospel into distant lands. Now in this day the Baha'is are teaching the people with the same divine Power. They are baptized with the power of the Holy Spirit, have forgotten ego and are soaring toward the Kingdom of sanctity. The most efficient capital of the Baha'i teacher is the divine power. Through that alone he can conquer the cities of the hearts. ABU1592

They went to America and were good speakers and had many talents. They knew English well. Nevertheless, they accomplished nothing, while we sent those who were dumb and the work progressed. When I went to Europe, I had never given a speech before, for it is not customary in the East, yet I plunged into speaking. It was like someone who had never studied or heard music, nor even hummed a tune, being told to sing any melody. Thus the matter is momentous. A single soul may go forth to battle, yet legions will come to his aid from behind. Now, wherever any of the friends of God may go, the hosts of divine confirmation will reach them. This is why Christ said to His disciples, "I am with you." Rest assured that the Holy Spirit will confirm you, and when you speak, do not think - say whatever is cast into your hearts.  ABU1973

Above and over physical forces, phenomenal forces, the Holy Spirit itself shall aid you.   ABU3099

