Now observe how inconstant, faithless and unstable some souls are. Shame upon those who believed then disbelieved, drew near then withdrew. These are servants who incline with every wind and are moved by every fancy, supposing themselves to be guided. Nay, by the Lord of the Throne and earth! They worship their desires but know it not. Strange that after beholding the ocean of meanings and its waves, and witnessing the Sun of utterance and its effulgence, one should be deprived thereof and cling to vain desire which is utter nothingness. Indeed not every eye is capable of beholding the true Sun, nor is every soul worthy of immersion in the ocean of meanings. Every kind seeks its own kind, and every branch will return to its root. BH00435

Any soul who today, after hearing this Most Great Cause, hesitates less than a moment is not worthy of mention. All books are dependent and conditioned upon the Word of this Manifestation. Today no mention and no deed is of benefit except by God's leave, exalted be His glory. Say: The Will of God is other than your wills, and His way is other than your ways. He walks not in your paths nor follows your desires. He calls those on earth and guides them to His straight path. Whoso turns toward Him has attained all good, and whoso turns away is among the people of the fire in a mighty Book.   BH00095

On this plane, the traveller meeteth with many a trial and reverse. Now is he lifted up to heaven, now is he cast into the depths. As it hath been said: "Now Thou drawest me to the throne of the realms above, again Thou scorchest me in the fire of hell."   BH00306

How many mature ones have been deprived and rejected, and how many suckling babes have drunk the milk of divine recognition from the breast of God's knowledge!   AB11062

Should one reflect upon the appearance of the Suns of Truth, it becomes clear and evident that in every age there have been and will be the truthful and the false. Take heed, O ye who possess insight!   BH02884


Observe how in every Revelation many manifestations of divine action appeared, yet in the subsequent Revelation, having failed to take shelter beneath its shade, their deeds were no longer ascribed to God and they all became less than nothing.  BB00005

yet not every ear heareth His remembrance, nor doth every heart perceive it  BH10550

Among the people are those who heard the Call from the Supreme Horizon and turned unto Him, detached from all who are in the heavens and on earth; and among them are those who were content with their own vain imaginings and turned away from the One, the All-Informed.  BH06968

Today the accepting and the rejecting appear in two forms. The accepting one saith: "My God, my God! Grant Thy servants a portion from the ocean of awareness, and deprive them not of the effulgent lights of the Luminary of vision. Thou didst desire reunion; the Wronged One too desireth it, but the smoke of heedless hearts hath become an obstacle, and the hatred of souls hath appeared as an impenetrable barrier.  BH10473


And among them are those who persisted and said "This is nothing but tales of the ancients."   AB05464

He who hath an ear hath heard the call of God, and he who hath not heard is counted among the dead.   BH07485

This thy servant hath abandoned superstitions, emerged from darkness and hath entered into Thy Light  AB06008

Every doubter hath turned away from the ocean, while every assured one hath drunk, praising his Lord   BH06464

This is Thy servant who hath believed in Thee and loved Thy loved ones and turned away from Thine enemies  BH10281

Blessed art thou for having believed in God and turned away from those who have denied this wondrous Day.  BH08175

Verily the sincere ones are certain of the meeting with their Lord while the idolaters are in grievous doubt.  BH07277

We have favored those who have believed over those who have denied God when He came with manifest sovereignty  BH05373

some have drunk thereof in Our Name, the Self-Subsisting, while others turned away, following their vain imaginings.  BH09496

The peoples shall differ regarding this Ancient Light, and hatred shall appear among them concerning this Mighty Pillar  BH07222

will wash us from the stain of such doubts as have hindered the suspicious from entering into the tabernacle of Thy unity   BH07657

Blessed is he who hath cast away vain imaginings and taken hold of certitude by the command of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH06292

We make mention of the servants for the sake of God - among them are those who turned away and those who turned towards Him.  BH06593

And the glory rest upon thee and upon him who hath turned unto God and detached himself from him who disbelieved and turned away  BH08475

And whoso denieth Him hath been deprived of the Salsabil of My love and the Kawthar of My grace and the choice wine of My mercy   BH08919

Those who doubted are wandering in the wilderness of heedlessness. Those who turned to Him have attained the lights of certitude.   BH08046

Among the people are those who have denied the proof of God and His Cause, and among them are those who have turned to the Desired One.   BH04969

Those who have believed today, they are among the most excellent of creation, and those who have turned away, they are a people who deny.   BH09589

Blessed be the All-Merciful, through Whom the faces of those who disbelieved were darkened, and the faces of the righteous were illumined.   BH07282

One raised the cry of joy while another wailed in despair. One became intoxicated from the divine cup while another withered and languished   AB05822

Cast aside doubts and idle fancies, and take hold of that which the Lord of all beings hath, out of His all-encompassing grace, sent down for you.  BH08759

Therefore hath the Pen of Revelation traced thy name, that its influence may attract thee in such wise as to detach thee from all who are on earth   BH04684

The Divine Candle hath thrown its beams upon the world, whilst the heedless, veiled and afflicted, languish, moth-like, in their darkness of error.  AB07151

Whoso turneth away this Day hath in truth turned away from God from time immemorial, and whoso turneth unto Him is reckoned among the sincere ones.   BH07709

One raised the cry of "but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets," while another loudly proclaimed "he hath fabricated against God."  AB00547


Whoso turneth unto it shall be reckoned among them that are nigh unto God, and whoso turneth away shall be recorded among the opposers in God's Book.   BH07404

How many a learned one was prevented, and how many a handmaiden heard and responded and turned unto the Dawning-Place of the manifestation of her Lord  BH06553

How many a servant hath believed, and how many a servant hath turned away - and he who hath turned away is assuredly among the denizens of the graves.   BH08867

He who hath taken hold of God's Book with the hand of might is of the people of Baha, and he who hath turned away is among those who have gone astray.   BH07179

O handmaiden of God! The beginning of the Cause is belief in God, and its end is steadfastness in His love. The barkers are spread abroad like satans.   BH04102

'These are the armies of God' he said 'I shall never become a party in a league to fight with them. Whenever they reach my village they are welcomed.'   ABU1003

Whoso hath turned and beheld, he hath attained unto this grace, and whoso hath turned away, he is accounted among the polytheists in My perspicuous Book.  BH10491

He who hath turned unto Him this Day is assuredly of the people of Baha in the kingdom of creation, and he who hath turned away is verily among the dead.   BH10640

The chalice of tribulation hath ever been reserved for the faithful, and through trials and afflictions are the steadfast distinguished from the doubters.  BH04285

How many a soul, upon hearing the Call, hath turned to the Most Exalted Horizon, and how many a soul hath turned away and followed every envious opponent.   BH08395

Among the people are those who have turned away and denied God's Revelation and His proof, and among them are those who have turned towards His straight path.   BH06347

Among the people are those who say We believe in God and His Most Great Remembrance...They have disbelieved with their tongues after their souls were convinced  BB00002

We have commanded all to that which profiteth them. Some have turned towards it and some have turned away, and he who turneth away is among the distracted ones.   BH10898

Whoso turneth unto Him hath attained that whereunto the near ones have attained, and whoso turneth away is accounted among the idolaters in the perspicuous Book   BH07143

Blessed is he who hath believed in God, and woe betide him who hath followed vain imaginings after the Sun of Certitude hath shone forth from this manifest Dawn.   BH09146

Among the people are those who have turned away and those who have turned towards Him, and he who hath turned and attained hath verily become one of those drawn nigh.   BH08274

Thus doth God distinguish between the fortunate and the wretched, between light and darkness, through a word which hath been differentiated from the Mother of Verses.   BH03554

Whoso hath quaffed the choice wine of certitude, he is of the people of this utterance, and he who hath been debarred therefrom hath no portion in this perspicuous Book.   BH07520

"The song of the nightingale of the garden is abhorrent to crow and raven, and the melody of the birds of sanctity is detested by the ravens of refuse heaps and ash pits."  AB03106

Whoso turns to it has attained what was promised in the Book, and whoso turns away has lost in this world and the next. To this testifies the Lord of Names in this station.   BH07237

How many a servant hath heard the call and responded to his Ancient Lord, and how many a one robed in authority hath disdained and waxed proud before God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH06875

They who have disbelieved - these are the dead. If they find the path of God they take it not for their path, but if they see the path of idle fancy, that is the path they tread   BH02632

For these are believers, those are deniers; these are luminous, those are in darkness; these are the dawning-places of true love, those are the manifestations of pure dissension.  AB08948

When its rustling was lifted up, among the people some were drawn to it and hastened until they clung fast to it, while others heard and turned away until they disbelieved in God   BH09104

"Whosoever attains to that which was mentioned shall be recorded among the people of certitude in the Manifest Book. Perplexity, doubt and the like have no place in this station."   BH08896

Those possessed of sight beheld those lights and received their portion from the mysteries of truth, while the blind were deprived, fell into despair, and were rejected and cast out  AB10866

Can those who have turned away from the Countenance distinguish between light and darkness? No, by the Lord of creation! They deny the Sun and its sovereignty, the proof and its evidence   BH06208

Those who believe in God's signs and follow the decree of the Book - these are the guided ones. Those who deny thy Lord's signs and follow their own desires - these are in manifest error.   BB00315

The faces of those near unto God have been illumined by the lights of the Countenance, while the faces of those who turned away have been darkened by their rejection of this Brilliant Dawn   BH09009

unto those who have believed in God and His signs, and have detached themselves from those who have disbelieved and associated partners with God and who stood at the station of opposition.   BH05171

Blessed is he who hath turned toward Him; woe unto him who hath denied Him and turned away from that which hath been sent down from His presence. Verily he is among the most wretched of creatures.   BH09941

But the tumult and sedition in Iran allows not the friends to draw a breath, nor leaves the seekers with attention or capacity to hear. Sedition was dormant; God's curse be upon him who awakened it.  AB02889

Whoso hesitateth in this Cause, he is of the polytheists in the tablets of mighty glory. And whoso believeth in this Revelation, he is of the monotheists before God, thy Lord and the Lord of all creatures.  BH02350

Every eye and insight that possessed the power of vision was illumined, while those weak of sight and limited in insight, lacking the power of vision, shut their eyes and, like bats, crept into the cave of darkness.  AB05301

They who have attained unto the verses of God and His recognition - these are they who are numbered among the guided ones in a mighty tablet. And they who have turned away or hesitated - these are among the most lost.   BH08357

How can the lowly worm, whose fortified palace is the depth of earth, know aught of the musk-laden morning breeze? And what effect hath the rose garden of mystical knowledge upon the owl of the ruins of this earthly realm?  AB04471

They who have turned away from the Countenance, these have denied God and His sovereignty, and they who have turned towards Him, these are among the people of Paradise in God's Book, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling.   BH08667

Verily, the righteous have drunk the choice wine of revelation, while the wicked have returned to their abode in the nethermost fire. The sincere ones drink of My choice sealed wine, while the opposers drink of noisome water.  BH07752

Blessed is he who hath heard and attained, and woe unto every heedless doubter... Unto him who hath not believed in God and hath not quaffed the choice wine of certitude belongeth not that which We have revealed in the Book.   BH07620

Those who hearken, who shall abide forever in their paradise, have said: "Our Lord! We have heard one calling to faith, saying 'Believe in your Lord!' and we believed." As for the deniers, they said: "We hear and we disobey."  AB10271

Among the people are those who have heard and turned towards it, and among them are those who have turned upon their heels - these are truly among the perishing ones. They cast guidance behind their backs and took up vain desire  BH08930

The hearts of the faithful have been dilated by this all-embracing mercy from the Creator of earth and heaven, while the hearts of the unfaithful have been constricted by this all-encompassing outpouring from the Supreme Kingdom  AB06506

They who are veiled this Day - these have no mention in the Tablets save that they are dead servants. And they who have drunk the living waters - these are the people of Baha, and by them hath the Kingdom of eternity been adorned.   BH08318

A remembrance from Me unto him who hath loved Me and believed when most of the people have disbelieved... They who have disbelieved in God and His proof have lost, while he who hath turned away from them and faced this Lamp hath gained.   BH09359

Among the people are they who were attracted by My call and acted according to what was ordained in My mighty Book, and among them are they who turned away and denied all that hath been revealed from the presence of an ancient Revealer.   BH09341

We make mention of him who has turned to the Countenance even as We mentioned those who cast away idle fancies and turned toward the horizon of certitude when the All-Merciful came with a sovereignty that encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH08086

Would that you had written to Ahmad himself: "We know not upon which path thou standest, nor which way thou walkest. At times we find thee repentant, penitent and remorseful, and at other times we see thee an unbeliever, a rejecter, a hypocrite and doubter."   BH01415

If you believe in Me and My verses, then you shall attain all good, and if you believe not in Me, you have not believed in any of the Messengers, nor are you God-fearing on that Day. And you did not follow the Messengers before, nor were you certain of God.   BB00339

But as for him who is miserly towards the Gate, who deemeth himself independent of the Gate, who exalteth himself above the Gate, and who denieth the Most Beautiful One Who is the Gate - he is among the people of hell in the land of the Prison, gathered in truth.  BB00002

Thereupon the near ones, the sincere ones, and the monotheists turned towards the highest heaven, which is the station of certitude and assurance, while the opposers and the polytheists turned towards the nethermost depths, which is the station of rejection and denial.   BH01144

Whosoever turned towards it and attained unto hearing it, such a soul is recorded with God among the companions of the most exalted Paradise and is inscribed by the Supreme Pen. And whosoever turned away, such a soul is recorded with the Chosen One as being among the people of the Fire.  BH05360

Among the people was he who was attracted by the call of God and hastened with his whole being and essence unto the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. And among them was he who cast God behind him by following those who disbelieved in God and His signs when He appeared with manifest sovereignty.   BH05506

The Cause is mighty, mighty! Observe how mighty it is when He declareth that the loftiest Tree of affirmation in that Dispensation becometh lower than the most inferior tree of negation. Yet thou hast regarded this mighty Cause as insignificant and hast paid, and continuest to pay, no heed to it.  BH00893

Whosoever among the divines of every age receiveth, in the Day of Reckoning, the testimony of faith from the Source of true knowledge, he verily becometh the recipient of learning, of divine favor, and of the light of true understanding. Otherwise, he is branded as guilty of folly, denial, blasphemy, and oppression.  BH00002

Those who have hesitated are they whom the dust of vain imaginings hath overtaken, whereby they were prevented from the Dayspring of inspiration. This is the Day wherein the eye of doubt hath been blinded and the vision of certitude hath been gladdened by this Sun which hath shone forth from the horizon of assurance.   BH06181

Know thou verily, that when the Sun of Truth shown forth to the horizons, the eyes of the people of affection were brightened by witnessing thereof, but the blind are in veil and discord, and say: "Where is the Sun of the Horizon?" Leave them in the veils of passions and fathoms of the seas of ignorance, to sink and play.  AB07715

The sagacious and intelligent Turks with discerning hearts are delighted, their eyes are bright and they are bewildered. But a band of bat-like miserable people close their eyes, and while they are immersed in darkness they ask, "Where is the light? Where are the mysteries? Where are the signs?" and thus proclaim their blindness.  AB01605

It is well known that the sweet fragrance of the rose garden becometh the cause of comfort and assurance to the tested believers, and causeth the melodious nightingale to be stirred with joy - not the oppressive dung beetle nor the shameless crow. Therefore give thanks that thou art a bird of this meadow, and not a crow or raven.  AB08436

Now, whosoever doth not deny the Primal Point in the garment of the Most Glorious, and acknowledgeth Him, is accounted before God among the people of eternity, even should he be the lowliest of men. And whosoever turneth away is recorded before God among the people of extinction, even should he be among the most exalted of creation.  BH00097

Among the people are those who have rejected the signs of God and His appearance, and among them are those who have hastened unto the Dawning-Place of Revelation with spirit and sweet fragrance. Blessed is the soul that hath spoken the truth, and woe unto him who hath disbelieved in God when He came with His grandeur and sovereignty.  BH06220

The impostors and pretenders, however, were deprived thereof; lived in utter loss; and bewailed their plight. Blind were they raised up, and deaf were they gathered together... But the false ones and pretenders remained deprived and at loss, living in regret and weeping over their state. Blind were they raised, deaf were they gathered  AB02270

Among the people are those who have heard the Call and turned towards it, and among them are those who heard and turned away, and among them are those who did not hear. Thus has the matter been detailed in a Clear Tablet. Those who denied the Proof of God and His evidence, and turned towards every distant idolater, have indeed suffered loss.   BH08696

Regarding the verse of the Gospel about which you wrote, that from context it appears that on the Day of Christ's appearance all souls would hear the call and obey: Know that faith is of two kinds. The first kind is faith through speech and obedience through action, which is by human choice. The second type is existential faith and natural obedience.  AB00653

Rest and comfort and laziness and luxury and negligence and indolence can come from any soul. Indeed, in this arena everyone can show the utmost strength and power. But cooperation and mutual assistance and patience and steadfastness and sacrifice of life is not the work of every soul. This is special to blessed souls, not every ignorant fool and helpless idler.  AB03792

Among the people are those who heard and turned unto it, and among them are those who heard and turned away. And he who turned away, verily he heard not - thus doth the All-Merciful testify in this noble Tablet. Think not that they who turned away are alive - nay, they are among the dead. Soon shall they know what hath escaped them, but today they are in a mighty veil.   BH05132

The deniers are those who believe in part of the Book and reject part of it. Nay, by God, rather they have rejected all the Books, for today if anyone turns away from a single letter of these verses, his rejection of all is established and confirmed. We believe in what was revealed before and what is now revealed, and everything bears witness to this, if you be of those who are certain.  BH00004

O people! If ye believe in Our Remembrance after the Truth hath come unto you with the Book, ye shall be recorded in the Book of the Exalted Ones round about the Gate. And if ye deny God after He hath sent down unto you the Remembrance and this Most Great Book, ye shall be inscribed as followers of the tree of Satan in the Book of the Prison, having shown arrogance against God, the Truth.  BB00002

Among the people are those who have turned away from Us, and among them are those who have turned towards Us and drawn nigh until they attained unto the horizon of God, the Mighty, the Wise. Those who have turned away from the Countenance, these are in grievous loss. Soon shall they know what hath escaped them in the vicinity of God, whereupon they shall wail and lament, and shall find for themselves no way.   BH09483

Among My servants are those who have believed and turned towards God, and among them are those who have turned away and denied God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. And among the handmaidens are those who have heard and turned towards God, and have drunk from the Kawthar of utterance from the hand of the bounty of their Lord, the Most Merciful, and among them are those who have denied God, the Lord of all worlds  BH08077

Therefore, O my God, cause at that time the entire tree and whatsoever shall be its return and abode to be according to what Thou lovest and art pleased with, for whosoever departeth from beneath its shade entereth into the shadow of the fire, as there is naught between negation and affirmation, and whosoever is therein is either in Thy fire or in Thy paradise - around these two do all contingent beings revolve and all created things circle.   BB00255

Many were the souls who were occupied day and night in the remembrance of God and who stood fast with utmost diligence in carrying out His commandments and prohibitions; nevertheless their deeds were not accepted. Even as thou didst observe the divines of the age who were occupied in the service of religious laws - most of them did not attain to the word of acceptance. And many were the souls who, at a single call, attained unto the divine "Here am I."  BH09312

This is Thy path from before and after what Thou hast decreed for Thy creation from the beginning [...] That is because whosoever turneth unto Thee, even shouldst Thou grant him dominion over all that is on earth, Thou wilt assuredly judge him by guidance and faith; and if not, then nothing of it shall be his. Likewise, whosoever is veiled from Thee, Thou hast judged him to be without truth and faith, whether Thou hast granted him all things or nothing thereof.   BB00304

For thirteen hundred years they lamented and, with weakness and supplication, beseeched the Self-Sufficient One for the appearance of the Promised One, and from their pulpits they uttered May God hasten His advent. But when the Most Great Light dawned from the highest horizon of the world, all turned away, and the cause and reason for their turning away is known and evident. They did what no other people had done. Until now they remain in the graves of heedlessness.  BH00027

Today two calls are raised: the first is the call of the All-Merciful, and the second is the call of Satan. Those souls who, upon hearing the second call, utter the word "yea" - such souls are deprived of the Kingdom of utterance and the heaven of bounty. They are the manifestations of tyranny and lewdness, and the dawning-places of infidelity and transgression. Blessed are those souls who have attained to the hearing of the first call and have responded with "Here am I, O my God, here am I!"   BH04139

Among the people are those who cling to vain imaginings, turning away from the Self-Subsisting; and among them are those who are veiled by a name from among names, disbelieving in God, the Creator of heaven; and among them are those who hold fast to their desires, heedless of guidance; and among them are those who were attracted by the breezes of revelation in such wise that they turned with steadfast mountains and took the choice wine of life in the name of the All-Merciful, detached from all else  BH02071

Those whom Thou didst preserve, Thou didst make them helpers of Thy Cause, turning unto Thy face, drawing nigh unto the sanctuary of Thy union and presence, circling round the Kaaba of Thy beauty, and drinking from the choice wine of Thy bounty and gifts... And those whom Thou didst leave, Thou didst make them manifestations of negation and dawning-places of polytheism, and Thou didst make them accursed in this world and the next, deprived of every good thing and far removed from the gardens of nearness and reunion.  BH01956

Know this much: that in the station of certitude, doubt has no place. If you say that recognition of this new Revelation has become confused for this servant, then come forth to witness. If you say there is confusion in the revealed verses, then come forth to hear and see. If you say confusion exists in deeds, know that every doer's deeds depend on His command and are contingent on His permission. The station of absolute certainty is sanctified above the doubts and imaginings of the worlds and those who are deluded.  BH00004

whosoever believeth not as the Manifestation of Thy Self believeth on that Day is a letter of negation, even though he be among the highest manifestations of affirmation in the Bayan. And whosoever believeth as He believeth is of Thy tree of affirmation, even though he had been of the tree of negation in the Bayan. Thus dost Thou bring forth from the fire whom Thou willest, and cause to enter Paradise whom Thou willest, and bring forth from Paradise whom Thou willest, and cause to enter the fire howsoever Thou willest.   BB00141

Now Baha'u'llah has appeared, the divine teachings and admonitions have been unveiled, the call of the oneness of humanity has been sounded, the banner of the kingdom of peace is flying, and the tabernacle of love and harmony amongst all mankind has been raised in the very heart of the world and is summoning all people. And yet again some ignorant souls imagine that these divine teachings are without foundation and regard their own imaginations as lofty thoughts. But before long it will become manifest that what He has proclaimed is sound, proven, and compelling, and that all other thoughts are vain and idle.  AB00676

