When Her Holiness the Essence of Sanctification and Reality of Holiness, Mary the Virgin - upon her be greetings and praise - became sanctified and purified from worldly concerns, she bore such a luminous fruit that she became the shell for that divine pearl and the target for endless arrows of cruelty.  AB11952

though outwardly He came from Mary's womb  AB05527

recognize the chastity and purity of Mary   AB04064

The Christians exaggerated the birth of Jesus.   ABU3627

Christ said that His mother Mary was not of His Relationship, also that those were His brothers and sisters who were in the Kingdom of God.  ABU1627

Once some materialists came to Acca to ask Abbas Effendi what about the Immaculate Conception. He answered: "A living body cannot come forth from a dead body. Only a living man can make a living child; this is a scientific fact." The scholars said it is impossible for a child to be born without a father, and said nothing could change their opinion regarding it. They left the subject and began speaking of geology - scientific facts well known. They were led to speak of their idea of evolution of man from the atom and molecule all through the different stations until at last man was evolved from all these previous conditions. Then Abbas Effendi said: "Well, did the first man who was evolved have a father and mother, as you said a child must have that comes into this world?" They said: "Why no, of course not." Then the Master said: "Well, if God could make the first man who came upon the earth without a father or mother, could he not make Jesus Christ also without a human father?" They were confounded and said nothing more, but after that they were converted and went away believers.  ABU3186

Isaiah prophesied that a virgin would conceive and bring forth a son, and His name would be called Immanuel--God with us. While the Christians claim this passage is to be taken literally, and that it means that Christ was born of a virgin, it is a prophecy of Christ, but in the original, the word translated "virgin" means a pure, chaste woman, and that was Mary, Joseph's wife. All the Old Testament prophecies foretold the coming of Christ. The Gospel of Christ shadowed forth the coming of the Manifestation.   ABU1697

Regarding His Holiness Christ and His birth into this world of matter; Speak not of this, if you can.  Should anyone ask, answer:  'His Holiness Christ was born of the Holy Spirit,' and let that be final.  AB11309

Regarding the birth of Jesus Christ, there is no doubt that Mary was the wife of Joseph - but the marriage had not yet taken place, when Mary was found to be with child - (St. Matthew 1:18). It is also proved by the statements in the Gospels that Jesus Christ had brothers. (It is understood that they did not believe in Him). The brothers were from Joseph, but Christ was from God, and Joseph was not His father. All the Prophets have a special name for themselves and as the name of Jesus was "Son of God" that must become a realized fact. He must be born materially and spiritually the Son of God in order to fulfill the Name.  Some of the pupils in the Schools of Science once came to Akka and asked the question regarding the Immaculate Conception of our Lord. He answered, "A living body cannot come from a dead body - only a living man can make a living child - this is a scientific fact." The Scientists answered "It is impossible for a child to be born without a father" and that nothing could change their opinion concerning it. They left that subject and began to speak of others and finally of geology and of well-known scientific facts. They spoke of the way in which the Earth had been thrown off from the Sun - of how it had gradually cooled and a crust had formed to make a surface of the Earth, and went on to speak of the Creation of nature and finally of man's Creation.  Our Lord said, "You believe in the Creation of man?" (Adam) They said "Yes." Our Lord said to them "And who were the father and mother of Adam? You said that you couldn't believe that Jesus Christ could be born without an earthly father (when he had a Mother) yet you can believe that Adam was born without either." ABU1419

"This gift was shining on the face of the Virgin Mary"  AB04965

After Christ came, He declared that He was born of the Holy Spirit. Though this matter is easily accepted by Christians today, at that time it was most difficult. It is recorded in the Gospel that the Pharisees said, Is this not Joseph of Nazareth's son, whom we know? How then does He say, 'I came down from heaven'?  AB01520

when the breath of Jesus from the invisible Kingdom wafteth like the fragrance of ambergris and musk  AB08259

We breathed Our spirit upon Mary and accepted from the wife of Imran her vow unto God, the Most High.  BB00002

When the Emperor asked about Mary's condition and thoughts, she replied that she had come on behalf of the Christians   ABU2142

It is not impossible that He should have been, though it is not necessary that all Manifestations should come in that way.   ABU3491

Christ said that He had come from the sky, from Heaven -- that He came forth from God -- while He was born of Mary, His Mother.  ABU0735

This cannot be denied, as mentioned in the epistle of the maternal uncle regarding the brilliant star that indicated the birth of Christ.  AB03340

In the Gospel it is explicitly stated that in His first coming, although Christ was born to Mary, He Himself said that He came from heaven.   ABU2982


The example of Christ is like unto Adam. The first human who came into existence in this world - did he have parents? Assuredly he had neither father nor mother. But Christ was without father.   AB00152

This is indeed the Night in which He Who is the Manifestation of the Essence of the Merciful Lord hath been born, wherein the Pen of the All-Glorious hath set forth every eternal decree with clarity.   BH01716

How many queens and princesses became forgotten, how many daughters and sons of kings and nobles of the world became nameless and traceless, yet Mary, though a village woman, attained such eternal life and permanence.   ABU2320

Mary desired that Christ would reveal Himself to those present, but He said: 'The hour is not yet come.' Therefore Mary desired He would speak to them something that would exhilarate their spirits, like wine for the body.  ABU2503

O maid-servant of God, the example of His Holiness Christ is similar to His Holiness Adam. Did the first man who was created in the world have a father and mother? Certainly, he had no father nor mother, and thus Jesus was without father.  AB10306

Some questioned Mary: "Where did Jesus come from?" She answered: "Out of my womb." He (Christ) said-"I have come from Heaven"-and they would say: "This man we know is from Nazareth. How came He then from Heaven?" Therefore they denied Him.   ABU0760

If fatherlessness were a virtue, then Adam would be greater and more excellent than all the Prophets and Messengers, for he had neither father nor mother. That which causes glory and greatness is the effulgences and outpourings of divine perfections.  AB01218


The second question is about Mary's conception by the Holy Spirit. This is proven and accepted, though some European philosophers doubted it and considered a birth without father impossible, arguing that procreation requires the meeting of male and female elements. Yet these same European philosophers consider the Earth to be created, saying it was originally fire that gradually cooled, forming a crust that thickened and stabilized, allowing plants, animals and humans to develop. They can even determine, through geology, which animals preceded others in development. In short, European philosophers and scientists have no doubt about the origination of the three kingdoms, rather they strongly insist upon it. In this case, by their own belief the first human was born without parents. Given this acknowledgment, how can they find the birth of Christ through the Holy Spirit strange and improbable? For Christ had a mother, while the first human had neither father nor mother. "Consider, O people of insight!"  AB00353


Ponder over the condition of the apostles, and that of Mary the Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Mary the Virgin the mother of Jesus. What a severe calamity befell them, and how they were patient and endured all difficulties until they succeeded, prospered and attained to the Bounty of thy Lord, the Generous.  AB10186

It is really very sad to see how Buddha and Christ are fallen into the hands of the bad people of their respective followers. Without the exact knowledge of their physiognomies every day they represent them under different forms. One day suffering him to sit under the Lotus tree and another day placing Jesus over the cross!  ABU1784


On this matter there is disagreement between the theologians and materialists. The theologians maintain that Christ was of the Holy Spirit. The materialists think this impossible and inadmissible without a father. In the Qur'an it states: We sent unto her Our Spirit, and it appeared unto her in the likeness of a perfect man - meaning the Holy Spirit appeared in human form, like an image reflected in a mirror, and conversed with Mary.  AB00920
