
Thou seest them shown the Light and thou sayest "Behold this Light of your Lord, the Mighty, the Generous" but they say "We deny what the leader denieth." Say: O people of fairness, look not through his eyes but through Mine own, if ye be among the perceiving ones.  BH08980

Everyone must do away with false prejudices and must even go to the other churches and mosques, for, in all of these worshiping places, the name of God is mentioned. Since all gather to worship God, what difference does it make? None of these worship satan. The Mohammedans must go to the churches of the Christians and of the Jews and vice-versa, the others must go to the Mohammedan mosques. They hold aloof from one another merely because of unfounded prejudices and dogmas. In America, I went to the Jewish synagogues, which are similar to the Christian churches, and I saw them worshiping God everywhere. In most of these places I spoke to them about the original foundations of the divine religions and I explained to them the proofs of the validity of the divine prophets and of the holy Manifestations. I encouraged them to do away with blind imitations. All of the leaders must, likewise, go to the churches of one another and speak of the foundation and of the fundamental principles of the divine religions.  ABU1796

Blessed is the soul who today has shattered the chains of blind imitation and the idols through the Name of God, exalted be His glory, and has attained true unity.   BH03040

How long these superannuated ideas? How long this ignorance?   ABU2352

The darkness of superstitions and imitations is being dispelled.   AB11093

Differences between religions are due to misunderstanding and imitation   ABU3126

Some complaints have occurred and continue to occur due to blind imitation.  BH06133

We hope you will break the chains of imitation with the strength of certitude   BH02334

Break the chains of blind imitation through My Name, the All-Powerful over creation.   BH05818

Ye wander in the realm of fancy and imitation, deprived of the blessed garden of unity.  BH01361

all must strive so that the decaying outdated blind imitations may be eradicated  AB12230

They imprison him who has broken the chains of blind imitation by the hand of divine decree   BH05812

They said: "We found our fathers following a religion, and we are guided by their footsteps"  BH02679

Glory be upon thee and upon thy son, and upon those who have broken the chains of blind imitation  BH03005

among them were those who broke the chains of blind imitation and hastened unto Him with clear certitude  BH06387

Which saveth the people from the darkness of blind imitations, racial, personal and political prejudices  AB12287

if they follow imitation, war and dissension shall remain, because imitations are the cause of differences   ABU2221

Cast behind thee the kingdom of blind imitation, then speak forth in remembrance of thy Lord among the worlds.  BH01467

You see how the heads of each of these religions have captivated the human souls and brought them under this narrow control.  ABU1570

People worship their idle fancies, immerse themselves in imitation and are entirely alienated from the hidden secrets of God.   AB05164

My hope is that you will rid and purify yourselves of imitations so that your thoughts and minds will be broadened and elevated  ABU2128

Many people inherit their belief from parents and ancestors and follow it blindly, too negligent to know and see for themselves.   ABU0468

so that the various denominations and the different religions may cast off the garment of blind imitation and put on the robe of truth  AB12532

"People are running after dogmas; they are holding fast to blind imitations; they are following the creed of ancestors and forefathers."  ABU0940

The vain imaginings of former generations have deprived the people from the dawning-place of verses and the dayspring of names and attributes.  BH06077

We have commanded the people in the Book not to follow their idle fancies... O people! Follow not your own selves, but follow the ways of God   BH08220

Whenever I expound to them the mysteries of Thy knowledge and the gems of Thy wisdom, they say "We find not this in the books of our forefathers."   BH09563

And when asked "By what proof have you turned away from God?" they say what their forefathers said before. These are indeed among the people of error.   BH06208

They derive no benefit, for they know not Christ and, imitating their forebears and ancestors, raise a lifeless cry and worship their own vain imaginings.  AB09336

Blessed is the soul whom neither the chains of blind imitation nor the power of those who would set limits has prevented from the Dayspring of Divine Unity   BH03065

except the eyes which were in the veil of imitation of the forefathers were hindered from or veiled from witnessing that brilliant and godlike illumination   AB04219

If thou wishest a discerning eye and seekest for a hearing ear, set thou aside that which thou hast heard from fathers and ancestors, for such things are imitation  AB05724

They are not worthy to recognize the Manifestation of God in His own Day nor do they merit to be stirred by the Holy Fragrances. These are the people of imitation.   ABU1620

"Some people are like unto the spiders. The more you [tear] to pieces their cobwebs of imagination and imitations the greater will it become their zeal to spin again."  ABU2624

But those who did not believe in Him until the end of their lives are not People of the Book, but rather followers of blind imitation immersed in the darkness of desires.  AB03385

One of the chief reasons for this growing apathy is that the ministers of religion have taught that religion is opposed to science and reason and have thus enforced imitation.  ABU2747

Today the religious leaders suppose that religion consists of blind imitation of one's ancestors. Therefore each people clings to its traditions and considers them to be true.  ABU0532

The glory shining forth from the horizon of My Most Exalted Pen be upon the people of Baha who have cast behind them the books of the learned, holding fast to this mighty Book.  BH08041

They have clung to the words of those besides Him who have claimed knowledge, yet in the sight of God none are more ignorant than they among all created things past and future.  AB00014

Their goals will not be achieved through political methods or nationalistic sentiments, especially when they are imitating others. The initiator is of course superior to the imitator.  ABU1827

These teachings are what the world needs in this luminous age, for this is not an age of blind imitation; it is the age of light, and the century in which mysteries will be made manifest.  ABU3749

We are servants who have shattered the chains of blind imitation through the Most Great Name of God and have detached ourselves from those who disbelieved in Him in Whom they had believed   BH00631

Whosoever is freed from Self and Illusion, released from the claws of Passion and Lust and holds aloof from the thorn and thistle-like dogmas- he will undoubtedly attain to the world of Truth  AB08787

"The Jews have traditional superstitions, the Buddhists and the Zoroastrians are not free from them, neither are the Christians! All religions have gradually become bound by tradition and dogma."   ABU0282

Beware lest the conditions of blind imitation prevent thee from the Dayspring of divine unity. Break asunder the chains of idle fancy through this Name whereby the horizon of certitude hath shone forth.  BH01801

The clouds of imitations have concealed the Sun of Reality and have prevented the lights of divine teachings from shining forth...The imitations that have arisen have become the cause of conflict and strife between people  ABU2703

For the imitator saith that such a man hath seen, such a man hath heard, and such a conscience hath discovered; in other words he dependeth upon the sight, the hearing and the conscience of others and hath no will of his own.   AB04757

Now again has the cycle of blind imitation begun to move, and soon all shall walk according to their desires, turn away from the essence of piety, become occupied with incidental matters, and remain heedless of the ultimate purpose.  BH05558

The greatest cause of bereavement and disheartening in the world of humanity is ignorance based upon blind imitation. It is due to this that wars and battles prevail; from this cause hatred and animosity arise continually among mankind.  ABU0019

By Thy might, O my Beloved, We find none with vision to behold Thy signs with their own eyes. Rather, they see through the eyes of their leaders, affirm what they affirm, and deny what they deny, though Thou didst strictly forbid them from this.   BH00677

They are immersed in a sea of blind imitation and have cast away the secrets of your Lord, the All-Glorified. They have firmly clung to the weakest cords and left the firm cord, the 'Urvatu'l-Vuthqa; holding fast to misconceptions which are weaker than spider's web.   AB01096

Observe how people are drowning in the sea of imitation, having no insight of their own. They cling to whatever they have heard, while for thousands of years they have been submerged in the ocean of vain imaginings without finding any result, and they are still asleep.   AB04751

Therefore, discussion and discourse with Westerners on this matter is easy, for they speak with rules and proofs, and one can respond accordingly. But discourse with these Persian imitators is most difficult, for what they say is mere assertion, without proof or evidence.  AB00060

The reason for their irreligion, as well as their reluctance towards matters of spirituality, stems from the blind imitation of those religious leaders of the past who promoted, in the name of religion, all sorts of vain imaginings that were contrary to science and reason.  ABU3675

Because this man's father was a Jew, he considers himself a Jew. Not that he has investigated reality and proved satisfactorily to himself that Judaism is right -- nay, rather, he is aware that his forefathers have followed this course; therefore, he has held to it himself.  ABU0037

By the life of God! It hath been naught but imitation and limitation. That which is befitting and conducive to the salvation, prosperity and reformation of the world and its peoples is but one thing: that the servants should observe and hearken with their own eyes and ears.   BH00982

If the nations and peoples of today would abandon imitation and investigate reality, all would become united, for imitation differs but reality and the foundation of divine religions is one. Therefore these differences are from imitation, not from the divine religious foundations  ABU2822

As a result, the people of this country have strayed entirely from the path of moderation, or fallen victim to the blind imitations and vain imaginings propounded by religious leaders, or clung to the motives of the materialists and arisen in hostility against the people of religion.  ABU3697

Thus in every age the masses, putting their trust in their leaders and clergy, have risen up to deny and harm the truth and its chosen ones. They have supposed that the actions of famous people are the standard, and that imitating any scholar or learned person leads to divine good pleasure.   ABU1249

This evanescent servant hopes, through the grace, generosity and mercy of God, exalted be His glory, that you may be cleansed from all idle fancies, vain imaginings and blind imitation, that you may stand firm, steadfast and upright as a mountain in the Cause of God, and arise to aid the Cause of Truth, exalted be His glory.  BH04705

Another cause was that the people were not realizing facts by their own sight, but rather through the sight of the Pharisees. Some used to ask of the people and of an old king Nimrod (the enemy of Abraham): "Who was Abraham?" They used to ask of Pharaoh: "Who was Moses?" They used to ask Satan: "What kind of a man is Adam?" These questions were as veils to them.   ABU0760

Look not upon these people except as sheep led by their shepherd whithersoever he willeth. Though in the Manifestation of Muhammad there appeared overwhelming power such that all on earth entered Islam without anyone gaining insight or knowing its proof, all who entered did so in like manner, and those who could present proof in knowledge were fewer than few.  BB00005

In past centuries the nations of the world have imagined that the law of God demanded blind imitation of ancestral forms of belief and worship. For example, the Jews were captives of hereditary racial religious observances. The Muslims, likewise, have been held in the bondage of traditionary forms and ceremonials. The Christians also have been implicit followers of ancient tradition and hereditary teaching.   ABU0020

These are they whom naught hath prevented from the ways of unity save blind imitation, even as thou hearest in this day from the concourse of the Bayan, such that if they were asked why they have turned away from the Beauty of the Adored One, they would say: We found mention of this in our books and we followed what was mentioned, though they understood not a single letter of the Book and comprehended not the essence of the Cause and its origin.  BH01725

Moreover, it is not known whom ye have deemed people of imitation and common folk, and whom ye have considered possessors of understanding and insight. Ye have adopted for yourselves a cause whereby ye have gone astray and committed wrong, yet ye perceive it not. Know that those possessed of insight and others are distinguished and set apart by their acceptance or denial. Whosoever succeeded in saying yea at the Most Holy, Most Exalted Manifestation is accounted with God among the righteous and those possessed of insight, and whoso did not is among the wicked and the immoral.  BH00004
