
If bribery and corruption, known today by the pleasant names of gifts and favors, were forever excluded, would this threaten the foundations of justice?  AB00004

Dr. Esslemont referred to the passage in the Mysterious Forces where it says that men who serve the House of Justice should receive their recompense from their private income. "Does this mean they should not receive any salary?"  'Abdu'l-Baha: "It means they should not be bribed. There is no objection to their receiving a salary. When this book was written there was a great deal of bribery in Persia." ABU0768

Let them perform their services with complete sanctity and detachment, and on no account defile themselves by receiving bribes, harbouring unseemly motives, or engaging in noxious practices.  AB06831

Not until discipline, order and good government reach the degree where an individual, even if he should put forth his utmost efforts to do so, would still find himself unable to deviate by so much as a hair's breadth from righteousness, can the desired reforms be regarded as fully established.  AB00004

For thou knowest that unseemly acts have become the cause of veiling and have deprived most of humanity from the shores of oneness. In all His Tablets, the Exalted Truth hath called His loved ones to sanctity and detachment, and hath forbidden all from corruption, conflict, contention and the consumption of others' wealth.  BH00513

Human nobility and distinction lie not in wealth and riches, especially illegitimate wealth from plundered property and the acceptance of bribes from oppressed subjects. Rather, elevation of purpose, nobility of nature, human greatness and success in this world and the next depend upon justice and truthfulness, purity and freedom.  AB02483

"Each year this man would deposit all the funds he had collected under various pretexts with the haddad [ironworker] and charge interest. At last, the Christians learned of the details and protested, 'You collect funds in our name, but instead of spending them on charitable ends, you deposit them with Fu'ad Effendi and personally benefit from the interest?!'"  ABU1539

The governor had understood whence this matter had originated. He had given one thousand liras to the Mufti to go to Beirut and present it to the Vali to secure a new appointment. The Mufti went to Beirut, but the Vali, having heard that this person had brought one thousand liras with him, had become stern and frowning and had not granted him permission to be seated until he had taken the thousand liras.  ABU0176

Early next morning he called on the Judge and in the course of conversation told him that he has a very mettlesome Arabian steed and desires to offer it as a present to his honor, not exactly as an inducement to further his affairs speedily; God forbid but as a token of warm friendship and gratitude. The Judge taking up the cue was all obliging sweetness and could not show enough of his expansive smile and ready willingness to put aside all the important matters of state and attend to the immediate consideration of the cases of his "best friend."   ABU0391

This man according to popular tradition must have been bad even before Adam and Eve. He extorted money by the flimsiest excuses from the well-ordered citizens of Syria. For example he would send for a wealthy merchant and manufacturer to come to Beirut on urgent business. Then on his arrival he would tell him. 'I have received bad reports concerning your character and dealings. You must stay here till I send a committee to investigate these false reports and then let you free.' The man finding himself helpless in the face of such accusations stays one, two, three or four weeks. Meanwhile, there is no one at the head of his business and alarming reports come to him. Finally he feels himself constrained to give to the governor a few hundred pounds sterling and get away.   ABU0355

do not cause corruption in the land after it has been set in order, lest the tyranny of every stubborn oppressor touch you. For if you become corrupt, you will have wronged your own self.   BH03468

