Trees are of two kinds: those that bear fruit and those that are barren. The fruit-bearing tree is transformed into light and shineth forth from the horizon of posterity. The barren one hath ever been and will continue to be fit for the fire.  BH09671

"What has passed is past. And what is to come has not appeared. Therefore do not compare two vacuities." If any of them becomes a believer in this Day, then he is considered the essence of the world of humanity. If a tree was fruit-bearing in the past but is now dead, then it is no longer a tree. Today, it must manifest harvests and fruits. In short, there must be benefits in our endeavors, and we must consider each moment precious.  ABU2589

Man is like a tree. The tree lives to produce fruit. The fruit of man is love.  ABU2911

most assuredly the saints and mystics had real experiences. The proof of the experience was its fruit. If the result was spiritual we might know the experience was from God.   ABU2794

This world is like a mountain, and our deeds the call, The echoes of our calls return to us all.  AB08005

Now is the time for the appearance of fruit  AB00558

If a tree fails to become verdant and flourishing in the springtime through the life-giving divine breeze, and yields no blossoms or fruit, in what season will it become verdant and in what time will it yield fruit? Surely it will be forever deprived and eternally hopeless.  AB00600

I hope that thou wilt yield true fruit and bear sweet produce  AB10129

I hope thou wilt become a fruitful tree producing sweet fruits.   AB06589

My hope is that soon you will blossom with flowers and yield fresh fruit  AB03997

You must sow seeds the trees of which may yield fruits for all eternity   ABU2835

Assuredly when they bear fruit they will have a mighty result and effect  AB11919

and may grow to be a fruit-laden tree in the garden of the All-Glorious.   AB04656

A human being without influence is observed to be like a tree without fruit.   BH08142

My hope is that day by day you will become more confirmed and illumine souls.  ABU1740

May you become as fruitful trees producing luscious fruits for all the seasons   ABU2177

bearing flowers, leaves and fruits, with widespread branches, blooming, verdant  AB11434

Let them render forth a goodly harvest and not become futile and fruitless trees.  AB03781

The fruits of the tree of existence are trustworthiness, religion, truthfulness and sincerity   BH02956

This is the fruit of existence and this is the divine bounty in the world of the seen and unseen.   AB11733

Plant such a sapling that it may become fruitful, and nurture such a tree that it may yield fresh fruit.  AB03226

I hope that each one of you may become a tree laden with delicious fruits for the healing of the nations!  ABU1523

Become fruitful trees, give sweet fruits, and provide shade so that the soul of 'Abdu'l-Baha may be gladdened   AB02438

The sun will shine on it, and it will bear fruits and bring forth goodly results. It is the same as you have stated.  ABU2212

Strive as much as ye can to become fruitful trees and radiant lamps and two brilliant stars in the horizons of East and West.  AB08080

Human souls must bring forth fruit during their sojourn in this evanescent world, for a fruitless tree is but fit for the fire.   AB04333

Therefore strive that in this world and in the world of the Kingdom thou mayst deposit a treasury and leave behind a trace and a result   AB05473

so that praiseworthy fruit may appear from the tree of being and heavenly effulgences may become manifest and apparent from the illumined heart  AB03489

Thou art a fresh plant in this divine orchard. I hope that thou mayest become fruitful, and become the cause of the adornment of this rose-garden  AB10561

Now is the time for thee to put forth leaves and blossoms, to yield fruit and produce, and to appear in the branches of truth with perfect adorning   AB10629

May you put forth leaves and blossoms and yield desired fruits... I beseech God that you may be the son of this father and become fruitful and productive.  AB07627

"Now is the time for fruit and yield, and the season for the manifestation of what lies hidden in every tree. Bring forth jewels and scatter delectable fruits."  AB05839

And through the aid and protection of the Blessed Beauty, may you become, under the shade of the Divine Word, fruitful saplings and trees bearing spiritual fruits   AB06958

that all may, in this Most Glorious Paradise, be like fruitful trees, yielding produce every moment, and become the cause of freshness and grace in this rose garden.  AB03547

In due season the trees must not only produce leaves and blossoms, but fruits. If a number of trees do not fulfill this universal requirement they are good only for so much dried wood.  ABU3053

Be well watered with the abundant rain falling from the clouds of the Testament of God, that thou mayest bring forth fresh and ripe fruits which are beneficial to the hearts and souls.  AB11441

When man departs from this mortal life, he must see in a tangible manner the accumulated results of his several scores of life, and observe whether any good is accomplished by him or not  ABU2851

In this merciful cycle, this most great dispensation, thou must strive to receive a plenteous share of the divine bestowals, perchance thy goodly virtues will, even as the fragrance of musk, perfume the whole world.  AB07546

But when one reflects, one should see that his life has been spent in matters that have yielded magnificent results, that their lives are like pure seeds that have formed abundant harvests. This is joy, this is delight.  ABU1988

May ye become radiant lamps and brilliant stars, may ye become signs of the love of God and tokens of the bounty of God, may ye become waves of the sea of reality and manifestations of the favors of His Holiness the One.   AB05065

Now, O trees of divine gardens, it is the time of fruit and harvest, and O saplings of the paradise of the Merciful's love, it is the season of verdure and freshness, the moment of blossoms and flowering and roses and blooms   AB04634

Fruits must be the results of these visits. Patients go to a hospital. Some leave but slightly improved. Some leave more ill than when they entered. And some leave entirely cured. I hope you will be of those who are entirely cured.  ABU1279

"The life of man will at last end in this world. We must all take out of this life some fruit. The tree of one's existence must bear fruit. If a tree has not fruit you must cut it down and burn it. It would be useless for other purposes."  ABU1655

I hope that through the mercy of the heavenly Father thou mayest become a fruitful tree, laden with fruits, so that thy sweet produce may become evident and manifest, and thou mayest become a tree of the highest paradise and yield the fruits of the gardens of the Most High.  AB09468

A tree must be fruitful; it may be very tall, very verdant, but yielding no fruits. The fruits of the tree of human life are the Love of God, magnetic, spiritual susceptibilities, heavenly illumination, the knowledge of God, praiseworthy attributes, good morals and conducts.  ABU2179

I hope that through the mercy of the heavenly Father thou mayest become a fruitful tree, laden with ever more fruits, that thy goodly produce may become evident and manifest, and that thou mayest become a tree of the highest paradise and yield the fruits of the gardens of heaven.  AB09468

Likewise every day of human life has the status of a leaf from the book and is counted as a page from its pages, and every month is a compilation and every year a manifest book. And deeds and manners and words and actions and conditions and character are like designs and drawings and lines and writing.  AB03013

In this Cause, he who is active and who makes an effort will always meet with success. In worldly matters how often we see a man work hard for a lifetime and never achieve success. But the worker in the cause of God is like a gardener. The more attention he gives his garden, the more fruit will reward his efforts  ABU2868

The results in life are the important things. A man may live a hundred years and if his life be not fruitful, it is of no importance. If he lives here a very short time and his life be fruitful, it is equivalent to being here a hundred thousand years. Importance is to be attached to fruitage. Now, praise God, Mr. Chase did yield fruit.   ABU1194

Existence is like a tree, and man is the fruit. If the fruit be sweet and agreeable, all is well, but if it be bitter it were far better there were none. Every man who has known the celestial bestowals is verily a treasury; if he remain ignorant of them, his non-existence were better than his existence. The tree which does not bring forth fruit is fit only for the fire.   ABU1016

Look at the people of the world and observe them carefully. You will see that they are like farmers or gardeners, and though life to all these farmers is very dear yet they are planting the seed of life in poor soil or in sterile ground. The seeds sown in sterile ground are absolutely of no value. Those that are sown in poor soil will grow a while, but later they will wither away and be without result.   ABU1293

What is the sum-total and upshot of farming, ploughing, sowing the seeds and irrigating? Is there any of the thought behind all these labors save the gathering of crops? If the sheaves are only green and verdant but having no grains of wheats or barleys, the result is not achieved. The aim has not been the luxuriant verdancy of the field, but the richness of the harvest. I hope the believers will do their utmost to crown their lives with abundant harvest.   ABU0603

The purpose of coming into the world of existence is to attain a praiseworthy result, which is faith, certitude and love for the Lord God. Since that has occurred and the complete result was achieved, it matters not if life was but a moment and joy lasted but a breath. However, if one lives a thousand years without achieving such a result, there would be nothing but manifest loss. What benefit is there in such length of life? Indeed, death would be better than such a state.  AB10616

The tree, no matter how green or beautiful it may be, if it is not fruitful, it is useless. So you will see many trees which are green and fresh, but produce no fruit. In the same way you see a man in the world who is very wise, learned, refined, accomplished, and diplomatic, but he is deprived of the Bounty of the Kingdom, and will not possess a share of it. But it is possible to see a man who is not accomplished or educated but who still has a share in the Bounty of the Kingdom, and when he attains to the Bounty of the Kingdom, of course he will be a fruitful tree.  ABU1319

The purpose of life is to get certain results; that is, the life of man must bring forth certain fruitage. It does not depend upon the length of life. As soon as the life is crowned with fruition then it is completed, although that person may have had a short life. There are certain trees which come to fruition very quickly, but there are other trees which attain to fruition very late; the aim is fruit. If the tree brings forth its fruit young, its life is short; it is praiseworthy. How regretful it is that a man may live a long life and yet his life may not be crowned with success, like unto the cypress tree which does not give any fruitage.  ABU1288

Now that the divine springtime has ended and the spiritual spring has been rolled up, now that the delicacy of rose and hyacinth -- the True Beauty -- has been concealed, and the grace and beauty of the Most Glorious Beloved has shown forth in the Most Exalted Kingdom and the Heaven of Immortality and other realms, the trees of the realities of God's loved ones in the gardens of God's Cause must bring forth sweet and goodly fruits and fresh and wondrous spiritual produce. Otherwise they will have gained no portion or share from that divine spring, will have been deprived of the bounty of the April showers of the Lord God's outpourings, will have been left despairing of the life-giving breezes from the gardens of oneness, and will deserve only to be burned as fuel.  AB01122

It is as difficult for the human mind to understand the Essence of God as for the watch to understand its maker, but through the Manifestations it becomes easier to understand His Spirit and therefore to draw near it. Otherwise, we must form for ourselves a mental conception of God, which may be a false one. The only test of its truth lies in the influence this conception has upon our lives; if it makes us kind and loving in our relations with our fellow-men, we may know it is a true one. In other words, it must produce in our hearts a love of God, which must be transmuted into love for man. ABU2607

In due season the trees must not only produce leaves and blossoms, but fruits. If a number of trees do not fulfill this universal requirement they are good only for so much dried wood.  ABU3053

For man is like unto a tree, and trees yield diverse fruits. A goodly tree must needs bring forth delectable fruits, that its true nature and essence may emerge from behind the veil of potentiality and become clear and manifest.  AB02952

What is spread abroad and apparent and manifest among people are His words and His loved ones. Yet from His loved ones who are known by His name and attributed with His love, none has inhaled the fragrance of sanctity and detachment, as most engage in deeds that are displeasing and commit reprehensible acts. People judge by analogy - what they observe from this group they attribute to the Manifestation of the lights of Oneness. This is why divine wrath has not yet seized the polytheists. I swear by the Ancient Beauty that if the loved ones of Truth had appeared among creation with sanctity, detachment, deeds and character like unto His, to the extent of their capacity, you would today find most people believers and turned toward God. Consider for example a tree - before its fruits appear, if it is described, some people will acknowledge it while others will waver between acceptance and denial until the fruits appear. And after the fruit appears, if it is bitter, they will surely reject the descriptions of that describer and all will arise in denial, both those who wavered and those who accepted. Thus the tree of human existence becomes known and proven by the fruits of deeds, and all observe its acts and deeds. If they find them good and pleasant they will surely accept, and without this they will surely turn away. Now from the divine loved ones who are counted as fruits of the tree of the All-Merciful, people have perceived naught but unpleasant deeds, therefore all remain turned away and veiled. God willing, in this springtime season may the sweet fragrances of the divine holy Ridvan be inhaled from those who seek the sanctuary of the August King, so that through breathing in the fragrances of those sanctified souls, the servants may return to the original Ridvan. In any case, some of the loved ones have caused the robe of holy glory to be soiled with the dust of people's vain imaginings, and the beauty of the Cause has remained hidden behind veils of suspicion.  BH00331

