And take account of thyself as though thou art standing before the Balance, hair by hair and shell by shell   BB00580

The Bab states that each day man must weigh his deeds - if they accord with God's good-pleasure, render thanks; if contrary, seek forgiveness and shun them.   ABU2046

Bring thyself to account each day ere thou art summoned to a reckoning; for death, unheralded, shall come upon thee and thou shalt be called to give account for thy deeds.  BH00386

Every soul should, in the night, take account of what has appeared from him during the day. If it was praiseworthy, let him give thanks, and if, God forbid, it was blameworthy, let him lament and return unto God.  BH02927

His Holiness the Bab has said, every person must review his deeds every evening, to see what he has done and accomplished. If he has done something worthy and noble, if his spiritual susceptibilities are increased he must be thankful to God; if not, repent and try to live a better life tomorrow.   ABU1223

Every day, in the morning when arising you should compare today with yesterday and see in what condition you are. If you see your belief is stronger and your heart more occupied with God and your love increased and your freedom from the world greater then thank God and ask for the increase of these qualities.  ABU0499

This is the mystery of that utterance which sayeth that man should record his deeds each day and present them at the next Manifestation. The purpose of this statement is man's awareness of his own deeds, that perchance he may become conscious and turn from evil to good, and from the remoteness of doubt to the nearness of certitude.   BH01077

Everyone upon awaking in the morning awakes with a thought. The commercial man awakes with the thought of commerce; the inventor awakes with the thought of his inventions; the banker with the thought of money. But you, when you awake, must at once think of God and begin the day with an earnest desire to attain to the will of God and His good pleasure. ABU2870

Never think whether you will have more or less wealth, for riches will never guide any man in the right way. His Holiness, the blessed Bab, mentions in his book that every one must consider at the end of each day what have been his actions. If he finds something which would please God, he must thank Him and pray to be strengthened to do this good act throughout his life; but if his actions have not been approvable or honest, he must earnestly ask God for strength to do better.  ABU1108
