Q: Was Confucius a prophet?  A: Yes, though not so great as Buddha.  ABU3643

It is like the Tree which Buddha planted: although at first it was a small sapling, it eventually enveloped the countries of Asia.  ABU2827

Buddha was a very good man - a divine philosopher but not a great prophet. Many of his moral teachings greatly resembled those of Jesus. The doctrine of reincarnation as taught by the Buddhists, and some of the ancient philosophers is not true. It was largely invented by those people who clung to this world and loved it so that they could conceive of no happiness apart from it.  ABU1457

The attributes of Divinity are assigned to the idols of India and today the likeness of Buddha is worshipped by several hundred millions of human souls.   ABU1823


The teaching of Buddha was like a young and beautiful child, and now it has become as an old and decrepit man. Like the aged man it cannot see, it cannot hear, it cannot remember anything.  ABU1522

The more he acquires these spiritual qualities, the nearer his spirit will be to perfection according to our terminology, according to Christians he will be close to salvation and according to the Hindus he will attain to Nirvana.  ABU2250

The holy Manifestations Who have been the Sources or Founders of the various religious systems were united and agreed in purpose and teaching. Abraham, Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Jesus, Muhammad, the Bab and Baha'u'llah are one in spirit and reality. Moreover, each Prophet fulfilled the promise of the One Who came before Him and, likewise, Each announced the One Who would follow.   ABU0027

Those people who have harkened to the teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH-Hindus, Mohammedans, Christians, Zoroastrians, Buddhists, Jews-such people have discarded their past rancour and are associating with the utmost love and unity... All these different faiths are merging into one great faith.  ABU0055

I met a man this morning who belongs to the sect of Buddhists and I said to him, "What is your message?" He replied "l'Amour, Love!" I said, "Yes, but what besides that?" He repeated, "Love, that is all, that is the only message." But the word Love is not a message; the word Love indicates an infinite thing, and how shall we bring an infinite thing into relation with humanity which is finite?  ABU0789

Brahma, Krishna and Buddha never taught polytheism. They were the Supreme teachers of monotheism like all the other prophets of God; but the succeeding generations misconstrued their words and in order to further their own selfish interests they fabricated these false doctrines.  ABU2576

There are prophecies concerning this Manifestation in the Buddhistic books, but they are in symbols and metaphors, and some spiritual conditions are mentioned therein, but the leaders of religion do not understand. They think these prophecies are material things; yet those signs are foreshadowing spiritual occurrences.  AB02701

It is really very sad to see how Buddha and Christ are fallen into the hands of the bad people of their respective followers. Without the exact knowledge of their physiognomies every day they represent them under different forms. One day suffering him to sit under the Lotus tree and another day placing Jesus over the cross!  ABU1784

In the estimation of the people of Turkey, Arabia and Persia there is nothing worse than Buddhism. The Buddhists are shunned as makers of images, and Buddha is considered a founder of heathenism. Notwithstanding this extreme prejudice of the Mohammedans, I often proved to them in their meetings the prophethood of His Holiness Buddha.  ABU0792

Buddha also established a new religion and Confucius renewed the ancient conduct and morals, but the original precepts have been entirely changed and their followers no longer adhere to the original pattern of belief and worship. The founder of Buddhism was a precious Being Who established the oneness of God, but later His original precepts were gradually forgotten and displaced by primitive customs and rituals, until in the end it led to the worship of statues and images.  AB00347

When Buddha sent His disciples to teach, He asked them: "If you go to a city and they deny you, what will you do?" They said: "We will pray and be thankful for they do not beat us." He asked: "If they beat you, what will you do?" They replied: "We will still be grateful for they do not imprison us." He asked: "If they imprison you?" They said: "We will still be thankful because they do not kill us." He asked: "If they kill you?" They replied: "Then we will be even more thankful for we will have attained the supreme martyrdom in the path of God."  ABU1659

"Teach them as the truths contained in their own religion; and after you have instructed them and gladdened their hearts, you may tell them of the Messenger, and remind them of the promise of Buddha that another teacher should come, teaching the same truths." When she further remarked that she was so imbued with the spirit of Buddhism that it was a part of her very life, he said: "It is your sufferings and your faith in God which have brought you to the true spiritual insight, and no change or alteration can take place in you. What you call yourself is of no consequence."  ABU2915

Buddha was an illustrious personage and Confucius likewise was the cause of the progress, glory and happiness of the Chinese people. Now is not the time for us to discuss the station and ranks of those who have gone before. We must look to the present. Whatever is past is past. Now is the time to confine our words to the Most Great Luminary of peace and tranquility of this age. We must speak of the Blessed Beauty and give news of His counsels, exhortations and teachings. Buddha and Confucius were kings who passed away before; their sovereignty in this world came to an end and their cycle passed.  AB04716

The conversation of the Japanese on religious subjects attracts the masses of the people. For example, they worship the sun. They say that all the contingent beings are in need of the sun. Without the sun nothing can exist, neither in the animal world, the vegetable [n]or the mineral world. Their existence is entirely due to the heat and light of the sun.  ABU0622

Although the foundation is established, like the foundation of Christ, yet if one travels among the Christians, one sees that they have completely deviated. Likewise the Buddhists have entirely deviated from the path of Buddha. Their origin is from Mount Tabah, also called Tibet. There they have their holy city, like Jerusalem and other sacred places of nations. Their chief leader is there. ABU0865

When Christ appeared, the people among whom he came were in a low state of intelligence there was little or no discussion of abstruse questions among them. Buddha, though earlier, came to a part of the world where civilisation was much more advanced, which was ripe in philosophical and metaphysical speculations. Mahomet found wild tribes and hordes of uncivilised barbarians.  ABU1396

The Message of Krishna is the message of love. All God's prophets have brought the message of love. None has ever thought that war and hate are good. Every one agrees in saying that love and kindness are best.  ABU0281
