
Twenty-five liras have been sent.  AB11066

attend to your business and trade  AB04158

A small sum of money was also sent.   BH09184

This sum will be paid by Jinab-i-Amin.  AB08757

not that that property should be sold   AB11759

regarding the matter of selling properties  BH05601

you will be enabled to pay off your debts   AB07534

Jenab-i-Amin should provide the publishing costs  AB12012

The receipts that you had requested are being sent.  AB07405

Praise be to God, title [to the property] was obtained.  BH07445

Since this man was dealing in cotton, his business soared.  ABU1612

A small expense and medicine was sent for Jinab-i-Tamaddun.  AB09314

spend two hundred tumans on constructing that refined grave  AB07895

His engagement in trade and other affairs would cause delay   BH10258

drafts for fifty pounds were sent in first and second copies  AB11023

the doors of blessing will open even in business and commerce  AB03510

this new company...its resources...gates of ease and expansion  AB12779

to buy land around the Lake of Galilee and by the river Jordan   ABU3238

Whatever expenses are incurred should be paid by Haji Ghulam-Rida.   AB05874

With regard to his life insurance, act in accordance with his will.  AB02232

the deed for some shares of the house of His Holiness Hujjat arrived  AB12679

Keep with you the extra receipts that were sent to you by Jinab-i-Afnan  AB08685

This loan is my debt - His Honor Aqa Mirza Ahmad-i-Qa'ini will repay it.  AB08761

For the new house's rental, I am sending 10 French Liras with Mirza Amin.  AB10735

Therefore, you must properly manage and organize all affairs in that region  AB12493

If they are there and require expenses, give them whatever amount they need.  BH01566

Instructions for monthly payments of specific amounts to various individuals   AB12193

He has copies on hand and is in debt and deserves consideration and assistance  AB10628

regarding thy means of livelihood I shall exert the utmost effort and endeavor  AB08316

Regarding the property of His Holiness the Branch, about which you had written   AB06602

discussion of arranging for the livelihood of Warqa's family through the Trustee  AB12599

The intent of these words is that there should be no negligence in paying debts.   BH03753

The velvet and other items you requested were sent along with a bottle of perfume.  BB00410

Instructions regarding management and spending of proceeds from an endowed garden   AB05356

"ordain means for you to be completely and quickly freed from debts to foreigners"  AB02890

Letters regarding financial drafts, receipts and payments for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar  AB09051

In these days travel is not easily possible, therefore postpone it to another time.   AB05612

Discussion of inheritance of "ten thousand tumans" and sisters dedicating their share  AB12297

If you need anything for expenses, obtain it from Aqa Muhammad-Rida and send the bill.  BH04624

We have permitted you to dispose of whatever worldly ornaments come to you as you wish   BH02441

you have many affairs to attend to in Tehran, including the property dispute with Jalal  AB12419

if funds are found to ease their difficulties... And obtain sugar and tea from Aqa Faraj   BH04590

And regarding Kaykhusraw's claims against Sardar, it will be written to Jinab-i-Baqiroff   AB07533

The details are with Wilhelm, and financial shares should be calculated at current value.  AB09292

Find for him some work or occupation so that he may at least earn a comfortable livelihood  AB08634

Prepare a place for her and the children so they may rest there in comfort and tranquility.  AB12761

"make some arrangement for his livelihood so that the small amount he has does not run out"  AB03995

Discussion of legal and administrative procedures regarding documentation and consul visits   BH03674

Regarding expenses, a letter is being written to Jinab-i-Amin to send funds to thee in Shiraz.  AB09298

The draft for one hundred pounds for your claim which you gave to Aqa Siyyid Hadi is enclosed.  AB07748

Keep with you the receipts that were sent in excess by Afnan, and deliver the enclosed letters.  AB08685

And I am a merchant who considers the benefit of wealth, and that is indeed a great attainment.   BB00398

Keep this Baha'i children's company perpetual and continuous, and make it blessed and profitable  AB09903

The entire letter deals with financial matters, debt obligations, and the need to avoid litigation  AB08971

please endeavor to provide assistance to other peoples, especially if the government makes a request  AB10213

The text discusses handling of financial/administrative matters in a way that will satisfy the friends  AB12700

And further, that beloved one should obtain and send 4 containers of two pounds of Egyptian red sugar.   BH00946

Request for confirmation of receipt of items and documents, specifically rings, tablecloths and letters  AB11232

Now show this very letter to Jinab-i-Haji Amin so that he may present the sum of seventy tumans to you.  AB07965

If there are any instructions for the land of Sad, write them of whatever kind or convey them verbally.  AB03691

"They have requested a receipt for twenty tumans - you should write and send it so that it can be sent"   BH02140

You must strive to find another position for His Highness the Prince, that you may succeed, God willing.  AB10842

Regarding properties, exercise some patience until the border issue between Iran and Turkey is resolved.  AB08942

Likewise, the meeting to strengthen the work of commerce is also acceptable at the threshold of the One.  AB08009

Complete the accounts with Bombay likewise [...] And pay the price for it so the account may be settled.   BB00359

Regarding one string of termeh fabric, God willing I will write to Bombay. I also have a maidservant in mind.  BB00541

The detailed discussion of returning funds that were prepared for 'Abdu'l-Baha's travel expenses in America.   AB01579

For a time they were in financial straits, but now Mirza Inayatu'llah's earnings have provided some stability   AB03170

The next morning the owner of the plot himself came to Me, apologized and begged Me to purchase his property.   ABU3342

you must serve the honored bank president with the utmost sincerity, diligence, zeal, goodwill and truthfulness  AB12365

but on condition that they send absolutely nothing more from the existing funds but rather invest them in trade  AB10470

Kiyumars should proceed to Russia to sell merchandise and afterwards return to Tehran and then travel to Yazd.   AB02501

Regarding your question about consultation between father and son and son with father in business and commerce   AB02887

Whoever pays the Huquq must obtain a receipt from whomever they send it through, so that the work may be orderly.  AB11021

Now since you have become occupied with some small work, and blessing comes from God, a small sum has been sent.   AB06756

secretly deliver one hundred tumans each year through a confidential note...send fifty tumans for Mulla Ahmad-'Ali  AB12469

Since a residence in Haifa is necessary, if there are any funds, send them to Haifa care of Aqa Mirza Muhsin Afnan  AB12557

regarding the house, praise be to God, arrangements were completed and that house was joined to the Blessed House   AB05901

And you should reach out to his family members and provide him sixty tumans from the Huquq for his travel expenses.  AB12377

Should any sum be required for a certain matter, you must certainly arrange and deliver it, even if it be as a loan  AB12762

Your honor must go temporarily to Tehran regarding the purchased land where someone has claimed a conditional sale.  AB09516

Send ten French liras to Aqa Ghulamhusayn Khurasani in Alexandria so that he may use it as capital for his business  AB01559

The Covenant Partnership is a manifestation of the favors of the All-Merciful and the recipient of endless bounties.  AB09378

Henceforth if they send telegrams, they should pay double the fee so it will definitely arrive and request a reply.   AB01046

Regarding the expenses that some had written about, I swear by God that in these days not even a small amount exists   AB03268

Haji Hassan brought paper. As no reply had come, no further trouble was given. Send the materials which are with you.   BH09881

Regarding what you wrote about the House - certainly the mischief-makers will spare no effort in whatever they can do   AB02198

if thou shouldst meet Mirza Javad, deliver to him that aforementioned sum, otherwise deliver it to the sacred precinct   BH05300

As for the disorder in thy material affairs, it is hoped that these too shall be set right through divine aid and favor  AB12378

Continue to deliver his lifetime allowance to his family and dependents after him so that they may not be left in need.  AB12548

Regarding the properties, let them exercise some patience until the boundary issue between Iran and Turkey is resolved.  AB08942

A detailed letter has arrived from Jenab-i-Thabit giving extensive particulars about the difficulties that have arisen.  AB08011

If you undertake any worldly endeavors, the purpose is to obtain some blessing that may be spent in praiseworthy causes   AB07355

The three hundred pounds that you sent last, along with the eight hundred pounds telegraphic draft, both were received.   AB11501

Regarding the carpets for the Holy Shrine which you had written about, God willing you will succeed in completing them.   AB11680

Instructions have been sent to remit one thousand tumans by whatever means possible, even if it requires taking on debt.  AB09297

Jinab-i-Aqa 'Abbasquli endowed three thousand square cubits of land on Mount Carmel as a dedication to the Sacred Shrine   AB06073

Thus, when they bring two words of consent from him each month, deliver five tumans each month to Aqa Mirza 'Ali-Muhammad.  AB12595

Also record whatever special funds were spent and lost in this transaction, so that it may be known how much remains today   BH06136

Similarly, through His Honor Afnan, assistance was sent from 'Ishqabad to the extent possible. God willing it will arrive.   AB07398

The debt of Alexandria and Haifa was paid as the amount was received. The receipts you had previously requested were sent.   AB03670

Deliver Mirza Ali Akbar's living expenses. If Mirza Ali Akbar desires a second temporary journey to Stuttgart it is no harm.  AB04373

The location you wanted to purchase is very acceptable. Two receipts were sent previously which have surely arrived by now.   AB02769

The matter of the petition was very appropriate - follow up on it so that the telegram may be sent repeatedly with emphasis.  AB01300

Keep track of these four numbered packets which have not reached Tehran, so that henceforth news of their receipt may arrive.  AB11020

As for Aqa 'Ali-Muhammad who is with them, it would be more pleasing if he were to remain in that city and engage in commerce.  BH11704

Regarding the house which you had written about that is in the vicinity of the Most Great, Blessed, Revered and Purified House  AB10203

They brought two thousand two hundred pieces of gold at a time when means were entirely lacking, and it was spent in that place  AB10221

Now the purpose is that the amount be determined so it can be offered to the Afnan of the Blessed Tree to distribute as before.   AB03736

free his house from mortgage and assist his family to the extent possible so that living expenses may reach his wife and children  AB12635

They did not seek to gather worldly goods nor acquire the ornaments of this abode of sorrows...their ease has turned to hardship.  AB05028

Instructions regarding various financial transactions, including sending funds to different individuals and for charitable purposes   BH01608

Write to Ibn-i-Ismi, upon them both be My glory, that his honor M.S. must deliver the Huququ'llah and not give it to the oppressors.  BH00191

no work could be found for him here...obtain for him an appointment in Tehran, or if that is not possible, a position in foreign lands  AB12523

Discussion of funds that need to be delivered to certain individuals and making alternate arrangements if funds are no longer available   BH10652

your recommendation was made to Jinab-i-Amin and now it is being repeated. That letter of recommendation is enclosed - deliver it to him  AB05362

Your honor should temporarily proceed to Tehran due to the matter of the purchased land, as someone has claimed it was a conditional sale.  AB09516

"The servant hath heard that his honor Nasir, upon him be the glory of God, remained without employment. Let him work as he worked before."  BH02310

Open his house and send any letters that arrive according to the address he will send. Also make an inventory of Jinab-i-Minshadi's estate.  AB07952

Regarding the matter of Jinab-i-Samandar, this servant submits this promised amount with utmost embarrassment and hopes it will be accepted   AB04113

I have given Aqa Muhammad-Taqi the sum of Liras to give to thee. Thou mayest get from 'Aqa Siyyid Yahya what thou need. I will pay him later.  AB05442

Regarding what was written about Aqa Mirza Muhammad and the sum that was given, these matters are in your hands - act as you deem appropriate.   BH01603

The letters of Haji Ibrahim were sent, but the document is with Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Ali Akbar until the aforementioned Haji arrives to send it.   AB04934

it was not possible to send out receipts, therefore kindly excuse us. God willing, after returning, receipts will be sent to the extent possible  AB10893

Investigate why he went and how long he had been in Tripoli. Was he summoned from Istanbul or did he go on his own? Investigate and report back.  AB03225

instructions have been telegraphed to the friends that arrangements for your comfort should be made. It is not possible to provide comfort alone.  AB11522

The assured, steadfast, certain and well-pleasing souls must, without hesitation, remove whatsoever causes delay in the payment of external debts.  BH06760

We rented the palace for thirty years until we bought it...So I had to buy land and make a guesthouse for travelers...claimed right of pre-emption  ABU1263

The entire letter primarily concerns the purchase of land in Haifa, including details about size, price, payment arrangements and legal requirements  AB01516

However much they wish to give funds, let them take 22 from the Siyyid's portion. In all matters they should watch over the affairs of the household.  BH04366

the financial dispute that exists between the members of the Divine Holy Family and Ustad Ali-Akbar, which has remained unresolved for several years   AB07568

The contribution of the honored Afnan and Jinab-i-Aqa Husayn-'Ali and Jinab-i-Haji Ahmad in paying off your debts was a service to the Cause of God.   AB04888

Settle these accounts with Aqa Azizu'llah in such a way that it becomes a cause of dignity for the Cause of God among both the friends and strangers.   AB12017

As commanded, they should add to the amount he had written so that the sum of fifty tumans reaches the people of ?adba. This matter is very important.   BH02257

this Pen has become like the treasury of the Ottomans and Persians - from the abundance of allowances and stipends it has beaten the drum of bankruptcy  AB04148

The ledgers you sent arrived. As commanded, they should take from the fifty tumans mentioned. If anything remains, they should send the small remainder.  BH06492

Now the funds must be accumulated, the land entirely paid for and the necessary preparations for building made and then the accessory matters considered.  AB11079

If letters arrive, send them to San Francisco in California, and whenever your carpets arrive, telegraph me immediately, for I wish to be the first buyer.  AB10089

Regarding the purchase of property and its cost which thou didst inquire about - We did not wish to mention this matter as it would cause hardship to some.  BH04563

As for his own things and property, let his honor Haji oversee them or send a trustworthy, astute person. This is what We decreed before and at this time.   BH02256

That book of proofs which you had sent belongs to this servant, therefore I will not return it. Please excuse me and do not deprive me of this clear right.  AB12434

You had complained about the stagnation of trade. In this year, calamities and the blow of economic depression and corruption have encompassed all horizons  AB04275

You should, by whatever means possible, provide him with the expenses for gilding, binding and other costs, so that he will not need assistance from others.  AB12702

Regarding what you wrote about certain matters, namely buying and selling - the affairs of this land are known and clear to you. Act as you deem appropriate.  BH02313

Concerning the situation in Alexandria which thou didst mention, and the abundance of debts and depreciation of securities - this is truly a difficult matter.  AB09273

The Muttahidih (United) Company must be [as precise] as the hands of the clock and exert the utmost effort that it may bring joy and gladness to 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB03279

Regarding the attainment of blessings in commerce, God willing, its brilliant effects will become manifest through humble supplication at the Divine Threshold.  AB05210

If in that land the means of livelihood become available, it would be most excellent. We beseech God that He may assist thee and cause suitable means to appear.  BH06355

However, [send them] through someone who can transport them personally. If they are shipped by boat, it will take two years to arrive and they may also get lost.   AB07274

Regarding the dispute over inheritance between the Afnan...the house belonged exclusively to him. It was immediately written that it should be divided among the heirs  AB12221

The friends must act according to the wish and pleasure of the master Jamshid and strive with utmost power in faithfulness, trustworthiness and excellence of service.  AB03650

Write to Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Aqa that he has the choice of being alone or in partnership, and either one is the cause of joy and delight - both are beloved and ordained   AB03221

Regarding the washing of the feet in winter and summer - both have one ruling. In both cases lukewarm water is preferable, though there is no harm in using cold water.   BH10899

Now we are in Montreal and this letter is being written in Mrs. Maxwell's home. Indeed, she is rendering the utmost service - she and her husband strive day and night.   AB05169

This tea was grown and cultivated on your farm...My hope is that through your efforts the cultivation of tea in those regions will expand and spread to other provinces   AB04749

Thou shouldst strive to the utmost in the pursuance of business. Divide thy time into two parts! Spend one in the business and the other in service to the Kingdom of God!   AB01312

Regarding the matter of the ten liras that Aqa Mirza Husayn intended to send to Istanbul - they should give them to Aqa Faraj and deliver the other ten liras when possible.   BH03482

Exert all efforts, together with the friends, that haply through God's grace, some occupation may be arranged for him, be it in other portions of the country or even abroad.  AB12495

an important (or considerable) sum of money must decidedly be prepared in order that work may be begun: that is, at least two or three hundred thousand dollars must be ready.  AB11088

O Jinab-i-Amin! Whatever reached you all arrived at the door. If individual receipts are prevented by your occupations, we have sent a general receipt with the names sealed.   AB03285

in all conditions they should fix their gaze upon the highest horizon, and if they are in debt to anyone they must certainly pay it, whether through compensation or otherwise.  BH01916

Regarding your request, a letter of recommendation was written to His Holiness Bashiru'llah through Mr. Sahih-Furush...they will endeavor to take care of the remaining request  AB09826

As for the commercial matters, God willing they will again find order and arrangement. Now efforts are being made to organize and arrange them, and confirmations are arriving.  AB06074

Regarding the debt of Aqa Siyyid Ali, for which thou hast given sixty pounds to Mahmud of Suez to be recovered later from Aqa Ghulam-Husayn's funds - this is most appropriate.  AB04593

likewise the power of attorney that you had sent for Aqa Mirza Muhsin had gone to the Holy Land. God willing, he will return to Akka and will undertake to purchase land for you  AB03676

Ask Leticia to come back and offer her a sum that would secure her agreement. Also, the sum needed for Shoghi Effendi and Ruhangiz's school must all be paid by Aqa Mirza Muhsin.  AB11524

Concerning the surplus of the price of The Brilliant Proofs, after the sum for expense of its publication is paid, this surplus I have presented to Mr. Windust, the revered one.  AB11218

Guard thou the shop which hath been opened in Our name for pilgrims, and which is known by My name, if thou be of them that understand. Then strive to manage and improve its affairs.   BH03073

Regarding the ten pounds, deliver all of it to Jinab-i-Aqa Ghulam-Husayn, the noble son of His Holiness Nabil-i-Qa'in, who is in the utmost financial straits and has suffered greatly.  AB11494

Therefore, the Spiritual Assembly must establish the grave of that luminous temple with the utmost delicacy and refinement, and whatever expenses are incurred, you should present them.  AB12593

One must accept and act accordingly, and must satisfy you so that the matter does not end up in litigation before the judge, for they are in debt and I am obligated to pay these debts.  AB08971

The friends in that land should also strive to the extent possible to perhaps find a buyer for the house who might purchase it, that thou mayest be free to act according to thy desire.   BH02760

His honor Haji Aqa Siyyid Ahmad has gone to make arrangements and return to the capital and settle his affairs as far as possible. God willing, they will succeed in paying their debts.   AB05925

Concerning the promissory note of Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Siyavush, since your seal is on the note, Jinab-i-Aqa Siyavush is in the right, even though his father received and spent the amount   AB00604

This is not a time to buy 'paper'. What should be done about the 'Liberty Bonds' that were sent as contributions to the Mashrak-ul-Askar fund? That rests with the Convention to decide.   ABU2941

His holiness was engaged in the business of indigo. After a short conversation I left him impressed with the loftiness of his ethical standard and the purity of his personal character.   ABU0296

As commanded, if trade is conducted in a place other than Beirut it would be better and more appropriate. And in whatever place business is conducted, they must act with the utmost wisdom   BH03481

God's decree is that if they are found in cities and villages, a crier must make one proclamation and inform the people of that city or village. If the owner is found, they shall return it  BH10405

Regarding the location of the office, whatever time the friends of God deem appropriate is acceptable. And concerning partnership with his honor Afnan and his honor Adib, both are suitable  AB12494

O thou who art firm in the Covenant! The room that your father endowed must remain, and likewise let the land that your mother endowed remain as a sapling in the garden of the love of God.  AB12797

the purpose was to arrange for funds to be sent for the repair of the Holy House... fifty French liras, that is one thousand francs, were sent. More than this was not possible at this time.  AB01997

The draft of Mirza Ishaq Khan - its receipts were sent before. The second copy of the first Qa'im-Maqami draft was received and sent to you. Now the first copy has arrived and is being sent.  AB09051

Some time ago, five hundred tumans was transferred through Jenab-i-Amin in the name of my cousin for building a dam against the river, and no shortcoming will be allowed within possibility.   AB02068

As it was observed that His Honour Amin has many responsibilities and writing is difficult for him, and besides you there are few companions and partners in servitude at the Sacred Threshold   AB07089

You had asked whether if someone has land that they cannot develop and its income is less than expenses, is it permissible to sell or mortgage part of this land. It is certainly permissible.   AB00796

However, the second deed sufficeth, therefore in every year His Eminence the aforementioned one, upon him be the fragrances of Him Who conversed on Sinai, shall set aside one vahid in his name.   BH08546

I hope that the partnership you have formed will become a magnet for divine blessings and that the signs of the bounty of the Divine Unity will become manifest and evident from every direction.   AB05150

Contributions collected for the teaching fund must be used for teaching. Likewise contributions collected for the Mashrekol-Azkar must be used for the Mashrekol-Azkar. These two must not be mixed.  AB06547

Detailed discussion of debts, property transfers, and financial transactions between various individuals, including the transfer of money to heirs, handling of debts, and property ownership matters   AB01557

if you could arrange for that great plot of land to have all its transactions completely finalized in the government registry - meaning all eight plots would be registered in the name of the Temple   AB11873

The first and second copies of the draft for one thousand pounds sterling, entrusted by Haji Ghulamrida, upon him be the Glory of God, have arrived. The drafts themselves have been safely deposited.   AB04258

You had written that a group of the friends from that region wish to sever their ties and come to these parts since you are farmers... Therefore it is better that you do not disrupt your work there.   AB03395

Regarding their occupation and commerce, they wished that the two brothers would engage in separate work and be independent, and this servant suggested that they consult with you and seek permission.  AB00233

a Bazaar was not so commendable and especially if the Believers should sell necessary articles, such as their furniture, etc. The handiwork of children, as an obvious expression of love, might be sold.  ABU1785

His honor Aqa Siyyid Mahdi is the agent of this servant and resides in the land of [Ba]. As some debts have accumulated in this land, we have therefore left him behind to settle these and other matters.  BH03882

Regarding the matter of the hundred tumans which you wrote should not be deducted from the funds of the land of Kha and should be accepted from you - this matter found acceptance in the Most Holy Court.   BH00720

Concerning deposits and their exchange to protect against loss, exchange is permitted provided it is for an equivalent value. Thy Lord is indeed the Expositor, the All-Knowing, and the Ancient Commander.  BH00069

Regarding the will of the late Haji Abdul-Rahim, carry it out exactly according to his own testament. In these days, as extreme hardship has befallen the Holy Land, if possible send that amount quickly.   AB00770

Regarding his house, he owes seventy tumans to one of the friends of God. Since at present it is not possible to pay it from here, whenever the Huquq becomes available there, you should immediately pay it.  AB12743

Regarding the matter of purchasing the specific house, again it hath been revealed from the heaven of God's command: "Soon shall We raise up one who will purchase what thou hast desired, through pure love."   BH10817

Through the endeavors of the friends of the Spiritual Assembly, some occupation must be arranged for him that will bring peace and tranquility to his mind and enable him to continue in his previous services.  AB10169

take ten French liras for expenses from Mr. Aqa Muhammad Mustafa and set forth, for continuing at the school in Beirut requires substantial expenses each year, and your father is also beset with difficulties.  AB11138

Concerning what was written about the Huquq, this has been raised to Our hearing. His blessed and exalted Word states: Whatever Huquq was owed by the spiritual elderly servant and you, We have pardoned it all.  BH00170

As to worldly matters, regarding the plot of land which you have prepared: if it is possible, develop it; and if it proves difficult, you and your esteemed husband may engage in other work in different cities.  AB10952

Concerning what thou didst write about the Zakat, the Zakat on garden produce is after the deduction of expenses, that is, the garden expenses must be paid, and whatever remains thereafter is subject to Zakat.  AB11348

We sent here to trade and be among those who earn. And We permitted Ali of Kashan what he desired on condition that you do not strengthen them with a third. They must engage in their work silently and quietly.   BH02429

Therefore they must keep accounts and make claims, as they themselves are in debt and payment of debts is necessary. As He, glorified and exalted be He, has said: "The payment of debts is an urgent obligation."   BH02314

Regarding what was written about Aqa Mirza Muhammad Ibrahim, the receipt was sent - let them send it. And the reply to some petitions from those parts is being sent - they should forward them with utmost haste.   BH01909

A package was sent addressed to Shabahang. Send it, but in such a way that you can be certain of its arrival. Write the name on the envelope either in his name or that of another person whose receipt is assured   AB06702

some difficulties had arisen in Samandar's business affairs, and the friends in Qazvin decided there should be a separation between the two parties... that pure heart to remain in anxiety over debts and distress  AB02391

Take care of that house because the light of the love of God was ignited in it. The Fragrances of the Kingdom of Abha perfumed the nostrils. As thou art obliged, there is no harm done if thou desires to rent it.   AB03463

"Instruct the sons of Jinab-i-Adib and Jinab-i-Ibn-i-Abhar and give them funds to build the graves of those two noble ones. If they are unable, select one of the friends to quickly build those two honored graves."  AB00651

Regarding the purchase of two houses adjacent to the Shrine that you had written about, I wrote to Aqa Siyyid Mahdi that first Aqa Siyyid Isma'il must fully pay off his debts, and then attend to this important task.  AB08226

You had written that the German government wants to send your dear husband for service either to Iran or to Africa...he must make firm arrangements beforehand - that is, regarding salary he must make a firm contract  AB12502

As for the almonds - their time hath not yet come; let them remain with thee. And as for the yard-measure - We have sent it to thee; use it as thou pleasest, though the Wronged One preferreth it pure, without almonds.  BH09821

Half of the funds remain outstanding; therefore, We did not wish to issue a decree in this regard. Half of the funds have reached them; We await the remainder, after which whatever is commanded will be most acceptable.  BH00594

Regarding the receipts you had written about - we presented that amount to you. Praise be to God there is no burden. The wealth belongs to God and we have presented it to one who is attracted by the fragrances of God.   AB02977

Certainly strive to settle the affairs of the blessed leaf, the consort of the late honored Afnan Mirza Baqir, that they may be put in order. This matter will bring success to your honor and result in joy and gladness.  AB09685

The sister and mother of his honor Aqa Siyyid Mahdi have ascended to the eternal realm. They had some water rights in Nayriz which they left to this servant. I accepted it and bestowed it upon his honor Aqa Siyyid Mahdi  AB12701

Deliver the spectacles with their case, along with the letter that will be sent, to Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Sadiq. Whatever suits him is surely preferable, even if not for the essence of existence, let alone for these people.  AB11244

Again regarding the matter of the two hundred tumans that must be delivered with utmost haste to the specified individual so that he may act according to what God hath desired, that is, deliver it according to the draft.  BH06505

And it was written that from a certain place an amount of thirty tumans would be sent for their expenses. If it has not arrived, Jinab-i-Samandar or others should give it and later when it arrives they can receive it back   BH01833

regarding the forty-seven pounds that was transferred but did not reach you. This caused extreme embarrassment and shame. I know not in what language to apologize. In any case, this matter was written about to Jinab-i-Amin.  AB01583

Upon receipt of the draft, send it to Shiraz without delay. One hundred tumans of this sum belongs to Jinab-i-'Andalib - deliver it to him. The remainder belongs to the survivors of the martyrs and the wanderers from Nayriz.  AB08369

Jinab-i-Luhrasb Khan must first pay his debts, and whatever property remains after that, the rights should be determined and delivered to Jinab-i-Amin...use the proceeds from two-sixths of the farm according to the endowment  AB01163

In the world of humanity there are few institutions as fruitful as the Gulistan Company. This zealous company strives to rescue the ascended souls and purified bodies from the clutches of crows and ravens and predatory birds.  AB03821

The lens business is very appropriate, and likewise the ventures you have undertaken in the ports of Shiraz. That matter too is highly suitable - it serves both governments and promotes trade and the prosperity of the people.  AB04116

Instructions have been sent to remit one thousand tumans by whatever means possible, even if it requires taking on debt. Furthermore, the Spiritual Assembly and the friends of God must show the utmost sacrifice in this matter.  AB09297

regarding the distribution of inheritance...whatever inheritance that has been distributed among the friends up to now is past, renewal is not permitted. What comes henceforth must be implemented according to what was written   AB03267

The intention is that the caretaker should reside in that place, but the property should remain in the ownership of Aqa Siyyid Mahdi, unless he himself, with the utmost joy and fragrance, chooses to endow it to the Holy House.   AB03027

A disagreement concerning inheritance has arisen among the Afnan. I hope that you, together with His Holiness the Confirmed One, will be confirmed in resolving this disagreement and will, with high endeavor, settle this matter.   AB02675

various people had entrusted their few qurush to him in good faith, which he had sent to the Spiritual Assembly, and now the owners of the money, including Janab-i-Firaybuz, are demanding it back, and he is at a loss what to do.  AB02369

regarding what they mentioned about conducting trade in these parts in the name of Truth - this matter is acceptable, for today whatsoever is carried out in the name of God is adorned with the ornament of everlasting remembrance   BH03053

This year God hath engaged somewhat in trade, for His glory and honor among the people, yet due to the sincerity of the sender, the lightness of its color added to its excellence, as it was special and is consumed in His presence.  BH01411

Therefore, in Tehran and elsewhere, register and sell any property that is in 'Abdu'l-Baha's name, except places that serve as residences for teachers, and send the proceeds to 'Ishqabad. The original owners must not be distressed.  AB12233

I guarantee that God will be pleased with you and will give blessings in your work and trade to such an extent that you yourself will testify and others will learn that because of obedience to God such a blessing was given to you.   AB06046

As to thy new business, the former trade...is the cause of thy comfort. The new business will engage greatly your mind. It is advisable for thee to engage in the previous trade and devote the rest of your time to spiritual matters   AB02505

As to what you wrote concerning the shop and occupation, God willing, it will be seen to be the best, most perfect and most excellent. Verily the matter is in His hands - He ordaineth whatsoever He willeth for whomsoever He willeth.  BH07479

Its cost is small. Obtain and send it to America as this will lead to its promotion. According to what has been heard, so far only fifty tumans have been sent to America for the Star of the West newspaper. This amount is very small.   AB05876

I wrote to Jenab-i-Amin regarding the renovation of two luminous graves, but he has become extremely weak and cannot manage it. You must make the effort and each spend 100 tumans on the respected graves and raise up their monuments.   AB11705

O servant of Baha'u'llah! Every trade ultimately leads to loss and every profit to deficit except your trade, whose merchandise is love and knowledge, whose marketplace is the celestial Kingdom, and whose purchaser is the All-Merciful.   AB05654

We endured endless trouble in purchasing the land and construction...I was very happy to hear the news you wrote about the reduction of your debts. You must absolutely, absolutely bring matters to the point where you have no debt at all.  AB02909

And if those people, after much insistence has been made to them, proceed to build a mosque on your land, then tell them, When I insisted, you did not act, therefore I am compelled to build something myself. Then build whatever you wish.  ABU0948

The means of livelihood of His Holiness the Afnan of the Sacred Tree, the honored Aqa Siyyid 'Ali, consists of the income from the property in 'Ishqabad and nothing else. Therefore exert thy utmost effort that this sum may arrive on time.  AB08368

"Regarding the house, whatever His Holiness Ibn-i-Ismu'llah-i-Asdaq (upon them both be the Most Glorious Glory of God) deems advisable, carry it out. This matter has been delegated to him. We have accepted what you requested and offered."  AB04483

The entire text deals with the proper handling of orphans' funds and debt repayment: "Henceforth do not entrust orphans' funds to a single individual... As for Haji Muhammad-Javad's debt, Haji Muhammad-Isma'il must make an effort to pay it"  AB09547

And as for the matter of Haji Abdullah from Shushtar, if he can support your livelihood and sustenance to a sufficient degree, that would be most suitable. But if he cannot support your livelihood in any way, then the situation is difficult.  AB10848

If this servant should be remiss in responding to your correspondence, I hope to be forgiven, as I am occupied with numerous tasks and countless affairs -- sometimes writing, sometimes planting trees, and at times engaged in various services.   BH01382

Please deliver the sum of fifty tumans to the wife of His Holiness 'Ali-before-Akbar and fifty tumans to the wife of His Holiness Mirza Haydar-'Ali...Also please present ten tumans each to Shaykh Haydar and Mulla Aqa through Haji 'Abdu'l-'Azim  AB12402

Whenever a believer dies and leaves behind debt, the friends of God must exert themselves to pay it off. If he has left some property or real estate they may dispose of it in the best possible manner and meet the indebtedness of the deceased.   ABU2760

Regarding the house, what you have carried out is acceptable and the receipts for the payment were sent, and it was written that they should remain with the Trustee in 'Ishqabad until the means for purchasing the prosperous house are gathered   AB11701

We have sent unto thee what was presented before the Face concerning that which thou didst entrust to Our servant, the Wanderer. Although thou didst spend it, yet We loved not that any but thee should dispose of it, as a favor from Us unto thee.   BH05203

Regarding the carpets of Ibn-i-Nabil, the Hamadani traveler, according to what his honor Haji Aqa Muhammad wrote, there are four more bales in Alexandria, and a sum is needed. I have left this matter to you; carry out whatever you deem advisable.  AB04196

Since Mr. Mirza Mahmud has no permanent means of livelihood, and for the glory of God's Cause the teachers must be free from necessary expenses so they can move with perfect independence, therefore from the Huquq pay him monthly sixty (60) rupees.  AB01042

Aqa Hashim Aqa Qadir from the land of K also sent a letter in the name of God expressing his intention to pay the Huquq. It was commanded that it be given to Aqa 'Ali-Haydar who would deliver it to you - act as previously mentioned and deliver it.   BH01889

We have commanded his honor Aqa Siyyid A.H. Afnan, upon him be the Glory of God, to proceed to 'Ishqabad for the sale of properties, and likewise Afnan A.L., upon him be the Glory of God, should go and do what is necessary for the payment of debts.   BH00771

Regarding the properties of that one ascended unto God, you had written that you would proceed according to his will, and regarding his house you had written that you would act according to what divine wisdom requires and the decisive sacred texts.   AB11816

A fierce fight started among these heirs because they mistrusted each other and could not come to a decision as to how to divide equally among themselves their father's immense fortune. Finally Mirza Mussa went to Baha'u'llah for help and assistance.   ABU1289

Be not sorrowful and grieved over the vicissitudes of this treacherous world and the burden of debts... While I am in debt and encumbered, how can the true spiritual friends be free, safe and at rest? God willing, the means of relief shall be provided.  AB12072

Since he is engaged in commerce in the great city, he has requested that someone be specifically assigned for writing and accounting with him. Therefore, this servant mentions, as commanded, that if your honor is inclined, this matter is very suitable.   BH04011

Therefore a substantial sum is needed for the reconstruction. It would be better for you to gradually deposit in the bank whatever amount you have in mind. Perhaps others will also participate until it reaches a sufficient amount and work can commence.   AB12059

whatever arrives and they are able to obtain should be delivered to the creditors, and they should consult about affairs and act as they deem advisable, placing their trust in God. If there are excess goods they should distribute them to various places.   BH01723

Whatever remains with you from the servants - if those souls suffered losses in the sedition of 'Ubaydu'llah [the Second], meaning their property was plundered, you must not trouble those souls. If they themselves give something, accept it, otherwise no.  BH09071

And after Jinab-i-Mirza Muhammad gave a detailed account, whatever they had arranged during their lifetime to send in this direction, send it, and carry out their affairs according to the will they made. Details will be sent upon Mirza Muhammad's return.   BH06504

If you truly have no need of the sum you mentioned, give it to this servant present so that he may pay some debts. But if it is needed - that is, if there is some need, meaning it might prove useful and could be invested in trade - then certainly keep it.   BH07090

Regarding the funds that must be sent, according to the command they must reach here the beloved of the heart, his eminence Aqa Rida and Aqa Faraj... Therefore the amount of sixty-five Ottoman liras was received from him which you should give to them there.   BH02008

Mirza Habib mentioned that the honored Haji had not yet put his affairs in order and his work was in disarray. He wanted to appoint someone from outside as his representative to organize his affairs... First put your affairs somewhat in order and then come.   AB02350

And regarding others, concerning the matter of [unclear] Aqa Mirza [unclear] that was written, it has been recommended that he send the receipt to your honor, and if you deem it advisable, send this matter along with the matter you had written about by post.   BH09807

According to what was mentioned, the matter of the sale was not established on a firm, solid foundation. The sale by some people appears flimsier than a spider's web. In any case, time is needed - it must be made so firm that no thought of change would occur.   BH04912

as regards commerce, you should render whatever assistance you can to the bank and its officials, and the friends should, with perfect sincerity, steadfastness, goodwill and truthfulness, assist the bank and share their commercial information and show kindness  AB12207

if you can obtain anything from Haji 'Ali - whether cattle or other things - for developing what you intend, that would be good. And if anyone wishes to create a new garden, they should adhere to whatever is customary and known among the people in such matters   BH04133

As for what your honor mentioned regarding the matter of trade with the spiritual friend Ahmad, upon him be Baha'u'llah, his mother, upon her be Baha'u'llah, does not wish him to travel there as she became grieved when she heard the climate does not agree with him   BH03314

As for the pilgrim house, it has been built in the best location near the Most Exalted Shrine, but it needs furnishings and equipment. Therefore it would be better that when you yourself are present, you attend to the completion and perfection of the pilgrim house.   AB05136

the sum of ten tomans and one toman which has been placed in the blessed name of His Holiness the Greatest Branch, Aqa Mirza Diya'u'llah, and His Holiness the Greatest Branch, Aqa Mirza Badi'u'llah...deliver to his honor the Shaykh that he may spend it as instructed.  BH02184

That which is beloved today is that your honor and his honor your brother - upon you both be the Glory of God - should be engaged in your trade with the utmost effort and striving, for the earning of livelihood in this Revelation is accounted as among the good deeds.  BH00211

Their only means of livelihood is from the properties in 'Ishqabad, therefore you must strive with all the friends to preserve their rights...so that proper organization and order may be established and their property revenues may be fully and completely sent to Yazd  AB01315

They owe a sum of money - whatever is verifiably owed to you must be quickly repaid, that perchance, God willing, the debt that must be paid to Haji Muhammad in Beirut may be settled before mention and claim are made. They must exert their utmost effort in this matter.   BH05008

Among the proofs of this is that your honor has shown kindness and rendered service to Jinab-i-Furughi by lending him a sum of money, and this kindness has been accepted in the Most Glorious Kingdom. This loan is my debt - Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Ahmad-i-Qa'ini will repay it.  AB08761

Indeed, by what religious law do heedless souls sell property to its owner, while authoritative deeds bearing the seals of that land's clergy are in hand? They sell our property back to us. By the life of God, they have been and are usurpers though they perceive it not!   BH01628

Your letter was received. You had mentioned your claim that you hold a promissory note for one thousand five hundred tumans. If this is so, it is certain that that person will show you the utmost deference and good conduct and will pay your debt with perfect contentment.  AB09055

"As to what thou didst write regarding the property at the door of the house which is with the peasants, that whatever they have should be taken, whether livestock or other things that may exist...Take what they are able to give and obtain promissory notes for the remainder."  BH01688

"You had mentioned your request regarding the promissory note for 1500 tumans that you hold. If this is the case, it is certain that that person will treat you with the utmost deference and good conduct and will pay your debt with perfect contentment, for he has good conduct."  AB09055

Although one may become withered and distressed from harm and loss in this world, you have another trade and seek another gift. Since true trade has endless profit and evident gain and benefit, if there comes some decline in the trade of this world, do not grieve, be not sad.   AB11745

The sum of three hundred pounds which you sent from Tehran arrived. As the journey to America lies ahead with a group accompanying and endless expenses...From America they sent three thousand and some pounds for travel expenses, but it was not entirely accepted and was returned.  AB02653

Regarding what you wrote about the company - I told Mr. Clark in America that affairs are not yet organized and you should not go before things are organized and the work becomes firm. In any case, this foundation was laid weakly from the beginning, therefore difficulties arose.   AB03632

As for the matter of the farm and its new water channel, sell that portion which belongs to 'Abdu'l-Baha and send its proceeds for the expenses of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of 'Ishqabad, for whatever belonged to this servant has been and is being sold everywhere and forwarded there.   AB00229

Sent by the Leaf, upon her be the Glory of God, wife of Muhammad-i-Rahim. He who hath attained should deliver five hundred tumans as commanded to Ali-Haydar, upon him be the Glory of God, and act according to what is mentioned in this leaf: [detailed financial allocations follow]   BH02150

The entire letter concerns the purchase of properties and associated financial matters, including "the aforementioned house was purchased on the 22nd of Ramadan for two thousand six hundred tumans in cash plus one hundred seventy-five tumans as settlement for right of rescission"   AB04802

The honored Afnan, Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid 'Ali, is truly experiencing hardship these days, and his means of livelihood is limited to the rent from the 'Ishqabad house. Therefore, make an effort to increase the rent of the house and, as much as possible, ensure it reaches him in full.   AB03261

Concerning what thou hadst written about the divine friends' devoted endeavors in settling the debts of Aqa Ghulam-Husayn... Regarding what thou hadst written about the economic depression, we beseech God to protect His loved ones in the shelter of His preservation and protection.  AB07999

They have written from Nayriz that their relatives do not intend to proceed in that direction, but rather intend to go to Yazd. We wrote to those parts that if they are willing, they should send them and provide whatever is needed for the journey expenses. We shall pay it back soon.  BH03247

Regarding the house that His Honor Afnan of the Divine Lote-Tree, Aqa Siyyid Mahdi, may the Glory of God be upon him, has purchased - if possible and if deemed advisable, in whatever manner meets with his blessed approval, it would be good for it to be associated with the Holy House.   AB03027

It is of primary importance to invest the rest of the three hundred Liras somehow, to work, and to sell the house in order to have a means of subsistence. If there is no other option, it is not necessary to sell the mansion. Otherwise it is not permissible to incur a debt whatsoever.   AB11938

As to what thou hadst written concerning Muhammad-Baqir of N and J, that he had written to thee that in former times he was engaged in commerce and had been somewhat negligent in the payment of the rights of God, such as being imprecise in his weighing, sometimes giving more or less...  BH02929

Praise be to God Who hath made earning and acquisition the treasure of man, and hath ordained for every soul that which was foreordained in His knowledge from time immemorial. Among men are those who profit and those who lose, and for each there is a portion and share in God's knowledge.  BH02312

As for the thousand pounds that ye had sent for the purchase of land, it was not deemed advisable, as land in Haifa doth not at present yield a livelihood. We have therefore set aside this sum until we receive further word from you, and bonds of the Land Bank in Egypt shall be purchased.  AB02903

The outward and inward well-being of the Afnan lies in ceasing their scattered and diverse trading ventures and being content with one or two enterprises. Verily blessing lieth in His grasp and the kingdom of bounty in His right hand. He enricheth whomsoever He willeth, as bidden by Him.   BH00236

"Regarding the company matter, do not personally enter into the company, but strive to sell the company shares and take a commission. Since you have many tasks, participation in a new company would cause confusion in affairs. Strive to perfect that in which you already have a partnership"  AB12343

When His Honor Amin hastened to this region, he mentioned the company of the Parsee friends, that these souls have engaged in this company with trustworthiness, religiosity, and sincerity and with the utmost zeal, and their purpose is to serve the world of humanity and to attain blessings.  AB10212

From the news of the completion of the honored House, assurance of heart was obtained. Praise be to God that we and you were enabled to accomplish this. Keep the account book complete, organized and certified by some important persons, even the honored uncle, and preserve it with yourself.   AB06234

The affairs of His Holiness Samandar, that ignited fire, are in disorder. His distress is my distress. Therefore it was my desire not to recover this sum from him. Now that he has paid it, by whatever means possible, deliver this sum back to him again that he may use it as capital for trade.  AB12369

Previously rice was requested, that his honor the esteemed Afnan, upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty of God, should send. He sent two containers. Although according to his own statement it was old, yet its cooking is very good. If possible, let him send from that same kind or another kind.   BH02926

Regarding what you wrote about the lands and M., news has arrived but they have written that it passed peacefully. However, as long as wealth remains within one's self, that person will never be considered pure from polytheistic doubts and infidel allusions in the eyes of the people of Iran.   BH00650

As for the sum that was mentioned concerning him, it was conveyed to his eminence Aqa Mirza Ayyub. At present they have no funds in hand, and in truth what they have said is with sincerity and truthfulness. However, it will be mentioned again, God willing, that they might receive and send it.   BH01121

Concerning your brother, upon him be the Glory of God, and his debt, and the actions of that spiritual beloved one, and the relinquishing of the house for the payment thereof and the exaltation of God's Cause - all these matters were presented before the countenance of the Lord of all beings.   BH01013

The affairs in the Holy Land are in great constraint and hardship, for after certain known events, it became necessary, for the glory of the Cause of God, to make certain gifts and expand the circle of charitable expenditures. Therefore extraordinary expenses arose and are increasing day by day  AB12370

Regarding what was written about partnership and commerce, the details were presented, whereupon He said: "God willing, it is blessed. We beseech Him, exalted be He, to send down upon you a blessing from His presence and to ordain for you and your children every good thing that was in His Book."  BH01476

When the time came to transfer the desired sum, a large scale was brought and the money weighed out like wheat. Now this man who was so rich, had ordered his servant to bring one small pan and cook only for himself. When the dish was put before the Prince nothing [remained] for the servant to eat.   ABU1765

All that exists must be placed for sale and given to the creditors. Now they have accepted this matter, but had it been done before these matters arose it would have been more beloved and excellent in the sight of God and men. All must consult together and act according to what they deem advisable.   BH00309

Previously it was written to that beloved one according to command regarding the two hundred tumans from Sabzivar, that it should [be delivered] to His Honor Mirza 'Abdu'llah-i-Nuri...Now according to your letter this sum was sent to Alexandria and from Alexandria this matter was also written about.   BH01648

In accordance with His blessed instructions I went forth with Mirza Musa and within three days had completed His divine command. On the first day, I divided the properties, and on the second, distributed the commercial inventories and on the third day, I apportioned the jewelry that was left to them.  ABU3676

Aqa 'Abdu'l-Ghaffar has repeatedly made the utmost complaints about his father Haji Muhammad Ibrahim, and has raised such lamentations and cries that his anguish and distress are beyond description. In these days he has again written a letter of complaint through you and raised his cry and lamentation.  AB08807

Mashhadi 'Abbad, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, has given eighty-some tumans for the travel expenses of Mirza Asadu'llah...Therefore, whatever sum Mashhadi 'Abbad specifies, please remit it and count it toward the account here...please also remit the travel expenses for Aqa Mirza Mahmud  AB12320

This business and commerce of worldly goods ultimately leads to evident loss, while that commerce is the cause of attaining a great treasure in the exalted Kingdom. The foundation of these [worldly] trades is unsound, while the promoter of that trade is the Most Glorious Beauty with manifest sovereignty.   AB02739

Your going with him, given your impoverishment, would cause difficulties, for this person can host you for but a few days at most. First, you would be kept from your work here - this is the first harm. Second, you would face other expenses, such as travel costs and obligations to poor Iranians in Damascus  AB08869

Regarding the sum mentioned, according to His command that amount should reach Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin, upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty, in Hadba' that he may distribute it among the captives of that land. The sooner this matter is accomplished, the more beloved it is in the sight of God and His loved ones.   BH00645

According to the command, the sum of thirty tumans for the price of a horse sent from Faran should reach His honor Aqa Muhammad-'Ali 966 [Baha'u'llah], who owns a carriage in this land, so that he may purchase a horse and engage in service, and the person who sent the horse may attain the reward of his deed.  BH08173

The matter of conducting business is difficult, for each of you is renowned and well-known in the Cause of God and celebrated for your passionate devotion to the Resplendent Beauty. Despite this, pursuing trade and commerce in those parts is an arduous undertaking. If possible, engage in some work in Tehran   AB12373

these two shares out of four shares of the income to you during your lifetime to be spent on completing those properties, and whatever remains beyond that is at your disposal...the five hundred manats of rental income that you sent has arrived, and God willing that Russian woman's land will also be obtained   AB01407

For now, certain means were pursued and one thousand tumans and a little more were prepared and arranged. They will be sent to you from Baku. Immediately transfer it to Shiraz so that one hundred tumans may reach Janab-i-'Andalib and the rest be distributed among the families of the martyrs and the refugees   AB01750

The account for year 34 has been settled clearly. Write down whatever they give in Shiraz so that it may be coordinated. Take the page within. A leader of broadcloth has written to Shiraz. When it reaches your presence they will have sent it, and after examining this same page they will have sent it to Shiraz.  BB00497

Evidently there are many expenses, and whatever was possible was obtained through any means and submitted. Now it appears there are total expenses but the means are not available. An amount was prepared with difficulty - that is, 50 pounds - and since it could not be sent by telegraph it was submitted by post.  AB02147

He has recently acquired a shop and intends to engage in business. Therefore I request of that honored master that care be taken in his transactions and that whatever he requires be carefully obtained and well-packed so that it may be preserved from damage and loss during transport and reach him safe and sound.   BH01551

Concerning what they wrote, that the spiritual friend Aqa Ghulam-Husayn and Aqa 'Ali-Akbar, upon them be the peace of God and His favors, have of their own accord requested to participate in a good deed, namely the palm grove partnership - this matter was presented and was honored with acceptance before the Lord   BH00864

As to the mortgage of the house, it is quite true. I would like to assign a certain monthly sum and send it through thee for Mirza Ahmad that he may content with that sum and engage day and night in service. Deliver, therefore, to him every month a hundred dollars, which is equivalent to the sum of twenty pounds.   AB01566

regarding the chest we requested - and it was decided to write to Shaykh Muhammad-'Ali - by command write to Aqa Muhammad-'Ali of Isfahan, since it was his initial intention, and then it was considered that perhaps Aqa Muhammad-'Ali would be hurt, therefore request it from him as it is preferable and more beloved.   BH09361

Regarding what you mentioned about Jenab-i-Amin, he has taken refuge in the fortress of the blessed word "The poor is under God's protection." Who can breach the city that is built upon smooth rock? In truth, the outward means of the world have fled from him, and the reason and cause for this is clear and evident.   BH06814

You and Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid 'Ali - upon you both be My greetings - together with the friends who are present, should gather in a designated place, and in that assembly should set aside their own wishes and firmly grasp whatever will be the means of deliverance from external debts, and act upon it without hesitation.  BH11804

If outward commerce has been disrupted, it mattereth not, for today all must engage in that commerce which illumineth the world and elevateth the peoples. True and spiritual commerce taketh precedence over all else, and that commerce hath ever been exalted stations in the sight of God, the Lord of the mighty throne.   BH02174

Regarding the house belonging to His Holiness the Exalted Branch of the Blessed Tree, Aqa Siyyid Mahdi, about which you had written - that house belongs to him. Whatever he deems advisable and commands, carry it out. There is absolutely no need to inquire of me about it, for it is his property and under his control.   AB06582

If he were to become occupied with earning a livelihood for his family and children, he would be prevented from this great purpose, and if he were to leave his wife and children unattended and travel to different regions, this too would be contrary to God's command and opposed to the good-pleasure of the All-Merciful.  AB07865

Regarding the electrical trade, strive in every way to gain complete mastery, so that when I need you with the electrical machine and electric light in the Holy Land, you will be able to operate the electrical machine and illuminate the electric lights and charge the electric carriage with power and set it in motion.   AB06655

As to what thou hast mentioned regarding business and transactions, these matters have been made dependent in the Book of God upon consultation. Let them consult with faithful and upright souls concerning their business dealings and the like, and whatsoever is decided, let them act upon it, placing their trust in God.   BH00722

Now that circumstances have brought about difficulties in their affairs, it is incumbent and obligatory upon us to assist them to the extent possible, nay beyond what is possible. Therefore, if feasible, arrange without delay five hundred tumans and deliver it to Aqa Mirza Abdullah, descendant of His Holiness Samandar.  AB12704

The most difficult issue is your debts in Yazd. These debts must be given thought. In all matters correspond and consult with the honored branch Aqa Mirza Mahmud. His affairs are also in disarray. Make some arrangement, for until affairs are organized, liberation from debts is difficult, and debt is a great affliction.  AB00522

From the circumstances, it appears that no prosperity has been achieved there, but you had not written whether there is hope for prosperity in the future or not...according to what has been heard, he has become employed in minor work with one of the divine friends who gives him one hundred and twenty ghurush per month.   AB05180

Regarding the matter of the three hundred tumans, justice must be observed, and His Holiness should receive his right. Concerning the accounts with Afnan Ahmad, whatever His Holiness Afnan has accepted is acceptable. Regarding the accounts of Aqa Siyyid Yahya from the Land of Ya, it is referred to the commercial council.  BH04860

Tell Bahman ibn Jamshid that hereafter every span of the remaining land will fetch an exorbitant price, and that is better for them than an extensive burial ground. Nevertheless, if His Honor the Afnan of the Blessed Tree considers it advisable to exchange this land with their own burial ground, that too is permissible.   AB01962

For the time being, His Holiness Afnan Aqa Siyyid Husayn, upon him be the Glory of God, and you must quickly collect his outstanding claims in that region and deliver them to his survivors. You must certainly make the utmost effort until the final portion is quickly received, receipts obtained, and sent to the Holy Land.   AB07063

Concerning what was mentioned about the matter of trade, it was presented, and He said: "Act according to what the honored Afnan, Siyyid M. - upon him be My glory and loving-kindness - deemeth advisable. His wealth is God's wealth. This is a firm, verified, and established command, to which honored servants bear witness."   BH01584

God hath forbidden you to sell to any save your own people, nor to purchase from others, that ye may, in your religion, conduct commerce amongst yourselves according to what God hath permitted you therein. Say: Verily the earth, and the water, and the air, and the fire are yours, if ye be of them that testify to the truth.  BB00003

For the sake of the Blessed Beauty, I had it repaired. But after leaving the barracks, the simple matter of bathing became increasingly difficult for the Blessed Beauty until I borrowed a sum of money and repaired the bath in the House of 'Abbud. By some means, I was able to repay the money I had borrowed within four months.  ABU2580

And regarding the matter of the name H, do whatever you deem advisable. As he wrote, it is difficult, for here no one is seen who intends to send funds to the land of A and land of M. In any case, do whatever you deem advisable. If you intend to engage in trade and seek profit, in this case request it - there is no objection.  BH04026

A letter has arrived from Mulla Bahram expressing gratitude to a respected person and Mirza Hasan-'Ali Khan who have arranged to give him some land along with two hundred and fifty tumans. You should strive to ensure that Mulla Bahram returns gratefully to Yazd and that these gentlemen quickly fulfill what they have promised.  AB09209

A letter has arrived from Mulla Bahram expressing gratitude to a respected person and Mirza Hasan 'Ali Khan who have arranged to give him some land along with two hundred and fifty tumans. You should strive to ensure that Mulla Bahram returns to Yazd gratefully and that these gentlemen quickly fulfill what they have promised.  AB09209

Concerning the promissory note of the Chief Merchant and the draft drawn upon you, certain reports current in that land have caused great astonishment... As for other matters, whatever form they take makes no difference. Second, if anyone in existence were to draw a draft upon your honor, it would be acceptable in this station.  AB12253

There were some times when this servant was immersed in a sea of debts. The people of weakness had opened doors of expenditure that were beyond endurance. Despite this, with utmost patience it was managed through loans and assets until they themselves declared their independence. Then the debts were settled through separation.   AB03682

As for the amount of profit in cash transactions, the Bab (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) permitted commercial profit, but the Blessed Beauty commanded reduction as much as possible. And if dispute and conflict arise, its judgment is referred to the House of Justice. And as for impermissible profit, it is excessive profit.  AB01570

As for the properties of the honorable Nawwab, upon him be 966 [Baha'u'llah], he and a group of acquaintances are exerting their utmost efforts, as they have done before, and God willing they shall triumph and prevail according to the meaning "the party of God shall be victorious." That is, they shall obtain and deliver your rights.   BH01200

Regarding what you wrote about the remainder of the estate of Muhammad, upon him be the Glory of God, if it were to be deposited in the House of God in the name of those two children, it would be closer to righteousness, for it may be that their mother might not spend it on the children, as she has set her heart upon another husband.   BH01423

May they not dissolve this company partnership. I hope that through divine favors this partnership will be blessed, for all the pillars of this partnership are firm and steadfast and are known for their divine love in that region. Therefore it is not appropriate that this partnership be dissolved and this sign of blessing be abrogated.   AB07000

Praise be to God that he, in obedience to God's command, wrote his will in his own hand before his ascension and left everyone at ease and comfort. Obedience to divine commands is the cause of the comfort of creation. Just observe this one matter - how much the will has become the cause of tranquility of hearts and ease of soul and mind.  AB02040

Just as this letter was concluding, a missive arrived from you stating that you had received a most disrespectful letter from Haji Ali Rashti demanding the deed to Mirza Ibrahim Khan's orange grove, claiming this was by my order. God forbid! Never did I issue any order for anyone to question you about this matter, let alone make demands.  AB00148

Regarding the purchase of the shrine and tomb of His Holiness Manshadi, complete and thorough instructions were given to Jinab-i-Aqa Ahmad. However, he said that he would undertake the purchase of the land after his journey, as he is now planning to travel to Europe. If he were to take action now, it would not be done in a fitting manner.  AB09644

Regarding the purchase of the burial place and tomb of the honored Manshadi, complete and thorough instructions were given to Jinab-i-Aqa Ahmad. However, he said that he would undertake to purchase the land after his journey, as he is now planning to travel to Europe. If he were to take action now, it would not be done in a fitting manner.  AB09644

I am thinking of her land (here). Let her make Mirza Hadi her representative, that is, she should send Mirza Hadi a written authorization signed by the Government (American) so that Mirza Hadi may, in her behalf, turn the land in her name. The Government, however, should clearly state that Mirza Hadi is authorized to buy the land for her.   AB03700

Concerning the matter of religion, that which every fair-minded soul would assuredly hold fast to hath been repeatedly recorded by the Supreme Pen. His Holiness the Afnan, the honored Haji Siyyid 'Ali, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, was commanded to proceed to 'Ishqabad for the sale of properties and the payment of debts.   BH00531

As for expenses, what was submitted was not easy, despite the necessity. In other instances that amount was submitted for this purpose, therefore expenses should be moderated as much as possible. Now 50 pounds have been arranged somehow - it couldn't be sent by telegram so was sent by post. If expenses are this high, the means are not available   AB00563

Concerning the situation in Alexandria which thou hadst written about, and the abundance of debts and the depreciation of currency - this is truly a difficult matter. I hope that through the grace and favor of the Blessed Beauty this difficulty too will be resolved, affairs will again be set in order, and comfort and ease will be attained by all.   AB09273

Referring to the goldsmith's shop that belongs to the Cause of God and has been entrusted to his custody: Since one-third of the shares of the non-existent inheritors reverts to the House of Justice when it is formed, and in its absence the Centre of the Covenant, therefore please pay the amount due to the share of the rent to Haji Hasan's daughter.   AB01047

Concerning His Honour the Physician, upon him be the Glory of God and His favours, they wrote that according to instructions it was written to him to provide details about the House - how much had been received, how much remained, and likewise what were the costs of repairs. In any case, matters should now proceed with utmost brevity until news arrives.   BH00484

That is, it must be sent to Dr. Muhammad Khan Mahallati in Paris, because he had previously supervised Ibtihaj's sons and for this service had received an annual stipend from the honored Ibtihaj. However, since I sent the sons to Beirut, this salary arrangement is terminated, but as means of uplifting his spirit, send him this money because he is in need.  AB03668

The custodianship of the Blessed House has been granted to the exalted leaf, the wife of the Primal Point, and her sister, upon both be My Glory of God, My Bounty and My Favor. Before God, we have conferred this custodianship on the House and thus have We adorned it with Our Benevolence, and arrayed Our command with the evidence of His Might and Compassion.  BH11900

Regarding the water rights given to Aqa Siyyid Mahdi - their return is not permitted unless his brothers indicate that this inheritance belongs to all and should be divided...Regarding the two hundred tumans belonging to the daughter of Haji 'Ammih Khanum - we have accepted that and gifted it to her herself...Send fifty tumans for Aqa Siyyid Zaynu'l-'Abidin  AB12271

As to what was written concerning the House, after submission they stated that whatever belongs to you should revert to the Truth. At present in that land there is no one who can attend to affairs and act as is befitting. Therefore if someone is found who can repair it and dwell therein, this would be acceptable; otherwise, it would be preferable to sell it.   BH01162

Sometimes caravans come from Beirut to this land. Since the land route lacks security, therefore your honor should observe - if a reliable caravan is departing, travel in its company, otherwise wait and depart by sea vessel. Utmost care in this matter is certainly necessary, as it is absolutely not permitted to travel without a reliable caravan by this route.   BH03016

Since I had previously endowed the crystal shop next to the mosque and the property of Zaman-Abad and others, and according to the law of the Kitab-i-Aqdas all endowments revert to the Huquq, therefore you must be content with this. I submitted that these endowments would revert later, and now something must be done that will serve the needs of the Cause today.   BH08767

And regarding the House matter, certainly give it utmost importance and be very careful that the court does not betray. Convey my greetings to the Consulate's translator and say that I ask this of you - that judgment be rendered with justice. Certainly you will exert your utmost effort and I will never forget your service as long as I live and it will be rewarded.   AB02511

With gold in hand, often I was refused provision. They would tell me roughly:- we do not have straw nor barley. I would answer: "Are we not your guests passing through your country and has not the prophet said 'be ye kind to your guest if he were infidel.'" They would then frown and say: "we will not sell you anything." I answer: "All right. Give to me then gratis."   ABU0871

Among the matters that have occurred in this land is that his honor [Baha'u'llah] has incurred debts exceeding two thousand tumans - two thousand tumans belonging to the merchant partner, and a considerable sum from the poor merchant himself. It is evident that this amount was given with trust in God. The aforementioned personage has thoughtlessly taken on this burden.   BH00209

You made no mention of the affairs of Beirut and Constantinople, and from the beginning no permission was sought nor consultation undertaken, despite all being commanded to this. Nevertheless, the sum of six hundred and seven Ottoman liras which was the House's funds and was present was delivered to his honor Afnan, upon him be my Baha and loving-kindness, for him to send.  BH11872

Concerning what you wrote about the funds that Jinab-i-Ism-i-N and Jinab-i-Ism-i-'Ayn, upon them be the Glory of God, have sent, and that you have used some for your debts and bestowed some upon others - this servant submitted this before His presence. He said: "Excellent is what he hath done with it. We had given him permission for this beforehand. Verily We are the Ruler."  BH00396

Now, since the affairs of Mirza Abdul-Hussein, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, are in disarray, you must assist him in every way possible so that, God willing, he may fully pay off these debts, for addressing this situation in such a way that leaves no cause for complaint or objection from the creditors will preserve the reputation of the loved ones of God.   AB05309

And concerning what was written about His Honor the Afandi - may God, blessed and exalted be He, strengthen him - having willed to send quince from that direction to this direction: yes, quince is good and is also available in this city. And if distinguished trees from there can be sent without trouble, and likewise the Mastaki apricots that were mentioned, it would be beloved.   BH00964

Regarding another matter, about the maidservant - if she has not been returned to her owner and her price is still outstanding, purchase one set of copper vessels suitable for a feast, including pot, strainer, container and its vessels, and other necessities thereof made of copper, equivalent to the price of the maidservant, or even if it exceeds her price, it will be paid here.  BH08129

"This money I took to a merchant who was in former time a grain-dealer but now out of work. I told him We will enter into a partnership, the Capital from me, the labor from you. With this fund you will deal four months in grain. After paying off all the expenses of rent etc; and receiving your monthly salary, we will divide the net profit; one third for you and two third for me."  ABU3338

As for the matter of the Prince's wife, I have not heard such news until now and there are no such events occurring within. However, regarding the journey to Yazd for the purpose of arranging and preparing to pay debts - this is very appropriate. You must strive night and day to pay the debts and be freed from these entanglements. In truth, you are in great difficulty and hardship.  AB02901

News of the organization of the affairs of the storehouse, the attainment of confirmation from the Lord of Bounties, and the payment and settlement of the claims of eighty-four persons has brought continuous joy. Through the grace and bounty of that Beloved One Who cherishes His servants, I hope that complete liberation will be achieved and that this will bring peace of mind to you.  AB03399

Dwell thou in a house that doth not compromise your station. If today the dwelling of the Most Pure Consort - upon Her be all glory and exaltation - in the true house would cause clamor among the servants and become the cause of rancor and hatred, residence therein is not permitted, according to the wisdom which God hath revealed in the Book, until God bringeth about His appointed time.  BH01484

Regarding what was written that it is not permissible for the Afnan to own even a hand's breadth of land in Ishqabad - this statement of your honor is indeed correct and right. This matter is quite clear and evident to those of insight, for such matters become cause for dispute, and dispute leads to the distress of some of the friends. Therefore non-existence is preferable to existence.  BH02969

It was that venerable personage, Bahjet Jurjus Jamal, a man of crystalline intellect and pure heart, albeit one of fervent Protestant conviction, from whom I sought to purchase the land where the pine trees stood. He did, however, with steadfast resolution decline the transaction, quoting the formidable sum of ten thousand pounds. This hallowed spot he had planted with his own hands and had solemnly enjoined upon his brother that not even a cubit or span of that consecrated ground should be sold to any soul.  ABU1254

his honor Afnan - upon him be the Most Glorious Glory - hath written that they have acquired a piece of land in that region dedicated to the name of God, exalted be His glory. After being presented at the Most Holy Court, it was honored with acceptance, and They commanded: Write to 'Ali-Qabl-i-Akbar, upon him be My glory, that the construction and development of that place rests with you.  BH11725

The house that belongs to the Afnan of the Blessed Tree, His Holiness Haji Siyyid Mihdi, upon him be the Glory of God the Most Glorious, should be renovated by himself - there should be no partner or participant in that renovation. Therefore write to him so that he may proceed however he deems advisable. Do not delay at all. In such matters, negligence and carelessness are not permitted.   AB02047

Concerning what thou didst write about the spiritual partnership, it hath been adorned with the honor of acceptance and the ornament of good-pleasure. From the first day We commanded thee to that direction, We beseeched God to grant thee blessing, bounty and steadfastness, and it was answered. Relying upon God, hold fast unto that which Jinab-i-Haji and other friends have deemed advisable.  BH11416

However, concerning the matter that arose between Aqa Siyyid Muhsin and Aqa Siyyid Ali, immediately upon receipt of the letter from the revered father of that illustrious branch - upon him be the Glory of God - and the request for forbearance with Siyyid Ali, Aqa Siyyid Muhsin was given a definitive ruling to go and comply with whatever Aqa Siyyid Ali wanted, even if it meant all the land.  AB06263

At the end of thy letter mention was made of the Face. It was intended to be acquired in the way of religion, but it proved impossible as commerce hath ceased in this land. According to what thou didst submit to my master, His Holiness Gh. S., may my spirit be a sacrifice for the dust of his footsteps, the funds were sent to Egypt for the purchase of the stone, and likewise for other purposes.  BH01583

In reference to the large house which thou hadst explained, thou shouldst take into consideration Mr. Jeffery Parsons' consent, pleasure and joy. With his consent if thou rentest the big house and live in the smaller one, it would be more economical... As to the large and small farms, if you leave them in charge of suitable person, it will certainly be better, so that they may not remain idle.   AB00583

Now that they will not sell the Bukhara properties, strive to have the heirs quickly agree to sell the 'Ishqabad properties and pay the debt. Write continuously to the heirs and awaken them, otherwise it will become like the story of Jinab-i-Haji Mirza Hasan. Since this is the case, the six hundred and seventy pounds you have given is enough, for the purpose was to clear the debt of the Afnan.   AB04165

This matter was discussed with Aqa 'Abdu's-Samad, upon him be God's peace. He mentioned that he thought they were not in debt, but later it became known they owed considerable sums. Therefore I did not dare, for it is not my money but the people's money, and indeed he speaks truly. If Haji Muhammad's funds do not arrive, that land will lose all credibility with foreigners, just as this land has.   BH01766

Among the greatest means for the progress of this age and the prosperity of nations and the civilization of peoples is the establishment of companies for commerce, industry and other sources of wealth...However, the establishment of any company must be based on divine principles; its foundation must be trustworthiness, religiosity and truthfulness, so that it may safeguard the rights of all people.  AB11381

Furthermore, regarding the aforementioned matter, no word hath reached Us from you. In any case, if Aqa Murtada-Quli and the heirs of the deceased are acting according to the will and sending any funds, let them send them to Aqa Siyyid Mahdi-i-Yazdi in Baghdad. As debts have also accumulated in this land, we have therefore left the Siyyid and appointed him trustee over affairs and payment of debts.   BH02319

You know that 'Abdu'l-Baha does not accept a single penny without necessity, for hoarding is never befitting. The travel expenses, praise be to God, are ready and prepared. Therefore, the sum that had been sent was most acceptable, but since it was not needed, it was returned. Whenever there is a need, I myself will ask the friends without hesitation or ceremony, and this is better and more pleasant.   AB00654

According to His command, wisdom must be observed in all cases, especially regarding the Afnan, upon them be all the most glorious Glory. This has been repeatedly emphasized. The Command is in His hands - He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He desireth. In these days, some friends in various regions have again been instructed to be mindful of protecting the Afnan of the Tree in all conditions.   BH00752

Regarding what was written about the funds for the Most Exalted Leaf, upon her be the Most Glorious of all Glory - what was sent has been received, however the remainder should reach the Supreme [Lady] the Leaf, her mother. The choice of garments has also been left, as commanded, to that noble lady. They said if they can preserve some in a chest, it would be beloved and acceptable in the sight of God.   BH00651

Since there was no deed of ownership in hand, and the deed was in the name of one of the friends who had passed away, the oppressors first claimed that the owner of the house - meaning that purchaser - died without heirs, therefore this house belongs to the government. And in the government office, according to the religious court ruling, they decreed that this house was without owner and appropriated.  AB01348

Praise be to God, you succeeded in having several financial officers appointed from America for Iran, and God willing you will also succeed in securing a loan for Iran from America. Until now, whatever loans Iran has taken from Europe, since the intermediaries were thinking of their own benefit, ultimately resulted in clear loss - it yielded no fruit either for Iran or for those who were intermediaries.  AB12128

Regarding the American correspondence you mentioned, I did not send such an order to America. Some have written on their own accord. God willing, it will be set right. As for letters that come from every direction, place them all in envelopes as before and send them in the name of Aqa Mirza Jalal. Without this system there will be no order, for he is always in Haifa and immediately forwards them to Akka.  AB07952

His honor Mirza Habibu'llah...had an appointment in Egypt with Muqtadir'ul-Mulk at a salary of five hundred tumans. When Muqtadir'ul-Mulk traveled to Europe, he told him to return from Egypt. Now Mirza Habibu'llah is left destitute and wandering, without work or occupation. You must strive and exert your utmost efforts so that by whatever means possible he may be appointed either again in Egypt or in Europe  AB12364

"You had complained about financial hardship and excessive debts and oppressive creditors...Today a Christian person unhesitatingly demanded repayment of a debt and showed no consideration for our acquaintance, as money is his desired goal and consideration is completely lacking. We asked for time to arrange the amount. We sent a trustworthy person and with great difficulty obtained a three-month extension."  AB03509

The honored Trustee, upon him be the Glory of God, during his presence, having resided in this land for some time, became aware of the confined space. Therefore, he strove earnestly to acquire some land and build a house. No land came into their possession until a plot was found near the house. After investigation, it became known that its owner desired to exact the price of all of Acre for that plot of land.  BH00197

This house which they are now selling must certainly be purchased soon, as it is very important. Surely you and the divine friends will make the utmost effort in this important matter. If cash were available here, the entire amount would be sent immediately, but the expenses here are beyond measure and this sum is not at hand. However, we will manage to provide one thousand tumans by whatever means possible.   AB02649

As to their turning towards this direction, it is not permitted, for conditions are unsettled, as was explained before. Regarding the properties, permission for their use hath been granted to them, but their sale is not permitted, as their existence is outwardly necessary for that honored lady. Let her use them with the utmost joy and fragrance and be occupied with the mention of the Beloved of all possibility.  BH00169

Praise be to God, means of trade and blessing have again been obtained for you. As for Mirza Isma'il Mishkat, praise be to God that lamp was kindled in the glass of pardon and forgiveness and became illumined in the hidden world's niche. Forgiveness and pardon were sought for him as well. Gather his effects - whatever is difficult to sell, distribute to the poor, and build his luminous grave as it should be built   AB02533

If a friend dies and leaves behind some debt, the believers must do their utmost to pay it off to the very last cent. For example, if I pass away from this world, while being under the obligation of debt, the friends must see to it that all such debts are cleared. During our sojourn in Bagdad and Haifa and Acca many believers died, leaving behind debts of large and small sums and I paid all of them most scrupulously.   ABU2371

God hath ordained the Zakat on gold, after it reaches twenty dinars, shall be half a dinar when it is minted and a year consisting of eleven months according to the Book of God hath passed over it... God hath ordained the Zakat on silver similar to gold in terms of the passing of a year and its being minted, after it reaches two hundred dirhams. At that point, five dirhams are obligatory upon its owner by God's decree.  BB00039

All the fourteen points which were contained in the President's proclamation were revealed fifty years ago in the blessed Tablets (of Baha'u'llah). Of them one is the Universal Peace. But His Most High, Baha'u'llah, palpably says that the Assembly of Universal Peace must be composed of members from all nations and governments, even from the small states. Had it been done in this way, difficulties would not have arisen.  AB03694

Then it was reported that each one had designated or would designate a sum, and that merchandise would be sent to him from wherever he requested. [...] Repeatedly some complained that Aqa Muhammad-'Ali was not sending merchandise according to requests - that he was sending items contrary to what was ordered. [...] your letter arrived mentioning a theft, saying "They broke my safe and took three hundred and fifty liras"   BH00479

Concerning the matter of partnership about which they wrote, permission was first granted as previously explained, and now it has been referred to the honored Ism'u'llah [Name of God]. He will write you the details. All the gentlemen -- may the Most Glorious Glory of God be upon them -- have the utmost love for you. Their purpose in mentioning these matters is to protect wealth from the thieves and traitors of the world.   BH01260

I hear thou art living in great constraint. Learn somewhat from thy brother, who hath a life of comfort and a table of bounty, and who feedeth a group of riffraff day and night. At the very least, thou shouldst consume a handful of rice each night. Glory be to God! They incur these enormous expenses, yet before friend and stranger alike they complain of privation, saying that this servant hath restricted their livelihood.  AB11254

For the repair of the honored House in Baghdad we collected one thousand two hundred and fifty tumans and deposited it with Haji 'Abdu'r-Rasul in 'Ishqabad until gradually a sufficient amount could be collected...The late Aqa Mirza 'Ali-Naqi had made a bequest, and since its execution was not possible at that time, a share of his timchih was designated, and Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Nasru'llah has sent all the rent from that share.  AB12212

On the first day when it was arranged that the beloved of the heart, the honored Haji Shaykh, and his esteemed brother, the honored Aqa Muhammad-'Ali, upon them both be the peace of God, would engage in commerce in that city, it was thought that this commerce would be a means for the manifestation of trustworthiness and religiosity among the servants. However, it yielded the opposite result, and there occurred what occurred.   BH00294

He has written repeatedly to this servant stating that he owes money to someone from Beirut from whom he previously obtained copper and work materials. Now a sum must be paid to him but funds are not available, and his honor Aqa Muhammad Rida (upon him be God's peace) has delayed in sending funds for some time. He has requested that you send these funds so that perhaps he may be relieved from embarrassment before that person.  BH01136

Since not all of that amount was related to the House door, it would have been better if you had sent what was related to the House door. To whom did you send the draft? For Mr. Ahmad must send it to a specific designated person. As for the list of debt for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar land, the purpose was for you to know that payment of the installment for the price of the land has been delayed, therefore we are sending this amount.   AB06085

Regarding the matter of selling properties - if the debt involves interest, especially excessive interest, then selling and paying the debts is certainly preferable. But if the debt is without interest, or if the interest is minimal such that half the income from the properties covers payment of that interest provided it is paid annually, then keeping the properties is preferable. Otherwise, paying the debt is better and sweeter.  AB01808

Regarding the two hundred tumans which We mentioned in the presence of Afnan M., upon him be the Glory of God, they must take it. According to the physician's account, that sum was spent on the House, that is, it was purchased. At first he himself had this thought and later submitted it. Therefore, his honor must deliver the sum of two hundred tumans, which Siyyid M., upon him be the Glory of God, had given, to him in lieu of the claim.  BH05250

As to what ye mentioned regarding the House, He hath said, and His word is the most sweet: No one should speak concerning it. Its owner hath suffered that which is greater than what befell it, as testified by the Mother Book which is with Him. We have spent all that we possessed in the path of God, the Lord of the Beginning and the End. He who hath disposed and disposeth of it without My leave hath indeed been heedless of My remembrance.   BH00978

Then suddenly the matter of exile occurred. After arrival in the garden of Najib Pasha, which was named Ridvan, His Holiness appointed Aqa Mirza Muhammad and the aforementioned Mirza as agents to rent out the properties and spend the proceeds as commanded. This servant knows only that an agency arrangement was made; beyond this, this servant was not properly informed whether this agency was established in both their names or in one name.   BH00200

From the day of their arrival in this Holy Land until the time of their departure, his honor Aqa Siyyid Sadiq and the assured and triumphant leaf, upon them both be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, continuously pleaded that this servant accept whatever belongs to them of their wealth, properties and real estate. Until now, this servant has not wished to accept from anyone, but from them it was accepted due to their repeated entreaties.  AB09687

This matter should remain confidential. He said that beloved one should consider what is conducive to the manifestation of trustworthiness in that land, meaning that whatever was sent should be used to pay debts. Beyond that, whatever that beloved one deems advisable may be done. If this sum is given to the creditors, it will surely cause confidence and also strengthen creditworthiness, and afterwards the means for its return will be easy.   BH01952

Another matter to present is that there is a sum written somewhere which according to His command must reach His Honor S.M. - upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God - that they may deliver thirty (30) thereof to His Honor A., upon him be the Glory of God and His grace, and twenty (20) to His Honor Aqa Muhammad-Taqi [upon him be the Glory of God] to deliver to his father, making fifty tumans in total. Whenever received, let it be delivered.   BH00993

Now, according to what Ahmad has written, Madame wishes to sell it. She herself mentioned this to Ahmad, and her sister's husband told Ahmad that Madame is in debt and needs money. He told Ahmad to find someone who would buy it for 1,200 Napoleon liras. Since this house was built with great difficulty, therefore please make an effort, if possible, to buy it from Madame for 1,000 liras by whatever means, for this house belongs to all the friends.  AB08157

Regarding the matter of the 600 tumans which you gave to Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Rida-Quli, and concerning which you had mentioned that guidance be given from the Source of the Cause as to what should be done, I laid the matter before the throne. He answered: "Write: Do not concern yourself with this, for the world and its ornaments have no permanence. We have accepted from you double that amount, for verily He is the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful."   BH00732

O Jinshid Khudadad hath fallen into the snare of injustice and is utterly distressed. He is now setting out for Tehran in the hope that through the friends he may be able to recover something of his property from that ill-intentioned one, so that he may at least pay his debts. Although the debtor hath fled, it seems he hath some savings from properties and goods in Iran. You and the other friends must exert your utmost effort to secure his rights.  AB09285

Your letter was received and from its contents it became known that the thread of business in this worldly abode has been severed and difficulties have arisen in commercial affairs. Assuredly if your brother would join hands with you, the work would improve and some means of comfort would be attained. If travel is not possible for you, request your brother to come temporarily to Tabriz for a few days so that arrangements can be made in this matter  AB08004

According to what his honor Aqa Siyyid Mirza, upon him be God's peace, hath written, your honor must not be remiss in gathering these means. It is strange that until now the brethren have not known what has entered and what has left the storehouse in Beirut, and the cause of their lack of knowledge has been the delay in your books and accounts. Now it is necessary and obligatory that you send a clear account so all may understand what has transpired.   BH00805

O thou who art firm in the Covenant! Jinab-i-Jamshid Khudadad has fallen into the trap of injustice and is extremely distressed. He is now heading to Tehran in hopes that through the friends he may recover some property from that ill-minded one, so that he may at least pay his debt. Although the debtor has fled, it seems he has accumulated some properties and goods in Iran. You and the other friends must exert your utmost effort in securing his rights.  AB09285

From the day of their arrival in this Holy Land until the time of their departure, Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Sadiq and the assured and successful leaf, upon them both be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, continuously beseeched that this servant accept whatever belongeth to them of their possessions, properties and real estate. Until now this servant hath never wished to accept from anyone, but from them, in view of their repeated entreaties, it was accepted.  AB09687

You also wrote that Mrs. Getsinger gave six hundred dollars from the five thousand dollars donated by the maidservant of God, Mrs. Cole, for Mr. Harris's travel expenses, and gives to whoever makes a request from that amount. This generous giving is most acceptable and beloved, but that devoted maidservant of God should keep in mind the journey to Iran - whatever is necessary for the Iranian journey should be set aside, and the remainder given in charity.  AB04887

Henceforth, do not entrust orphans' funds to a single individual, for such dangers may result. Rather, let them be placed in a bank or special fund for orphans under the administration of the Spiritual Assembly, and they must be managed with the Assembly's knowledge. As for the debt of Haji Muhammad-Javad, Jinab-i-Haji Muhammad-Isma'il must make an effort to repay it, for it belongs to orphans, and lack of effort would cause the removal of divine blessing.  AB09547

As to thy question concerning interest and profit on gold and silver: Some years ago the following passage was revealed from the heaven of the All-Merciful in honour of the one who beareth the name of God, entitled Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin - upon him be the glory of the Most Glorious. He - exalted be His Word - saith: Many people stand in need of this. Because if there were no prospect for gaining interest, the affairs of men would suffer collapse or dislocation.  BH00053

Concerning what you wrote about Shahverdi, upon him be the Glory of God, he had some funds with Haji Ali, and when the aforementioned Haji intended to go to Hauran, he submitted that he had these funds which should be used to obtain a book. Then, according to instructions, since Mulla Muhammad-Ali Dahaji was about to depart and had no travel expenses, they directed that Haji Ali give it to him, and one book was taken in exchange for those funds from Ism-i-Jud  BH00694

Concerning what you wrote about this servant's intention to gather the means for the garden remaining firm and steadfast - this is among the aspects of love, for when a hundred cometh, ninety is also with us. When love is established, its conditions and effects are present. Since they had inquired about the previously sent grape vines, the grape vines that were sent as gifts - as their cuttings arrived here dried up - therefore remained barren and unfruitful.   BH01211

Now the loved ones must, in all conditions, hold fast to the means that lead to the payment of external debts. The Tongue has ever spoken this verse as a favor from Us to Our loved ones: Hold fast to deeds and be confident in His grace. Surely after these hardships come ease, mercy and the manifestation of grace. Sorrows prevent man from attending to affairs, and this is not acceptable before God. They must, detached from all else, hold fast to what is befitting.  BH11215

The Holy Land is much disturbed these days, as His Holiness the Name has incurred a debt of one thousand liras and has nothing to show for it, and this sum belongs to the poor Khawaja and his partner. In such circumstances, it is evident what has happened and what will happen. Indeed, this matter has been and continues to be a source of great humiliation, although it remains concealed for now. But after people become aware of it, it is unknown what will transpire.  BH01378

Regarding the matter of power of attorney for the House, you had inquired about his honor Aqa Siyyid Ahmad Afnan, upon him be the Glory of God, and about a copy of the power of attorney. When a search was made here, there was no copy in the court, and his honor Aqa Siyyid Ahmad was also in Istanbul. When he was asked about it, it became clear that he did not have a copy either. Rather, they had gone before the judge here and had written a brief power of attorney.   AB02093

The various funds that you had written should be sent to the Most Holy Court were presented. Praise be to God, they were adorned with the ornament of acceptance. He said the small debts should be paid and with the remainder a property should be acquired, as the matter of housing in this land has become very difficult due to the large population and small size of the city, or lands should be purchased so their yields may be an enduring fruit for the one who sent them.   BH01550

After the consent of the couple and their parents has been given, a number of the faithful should assemble and read the Marriage Prayer with the utmost joy and fragrance. After the reading of the Marriage Prayer, the couple should in a separate place, recite the Marriage Verse revealed in the Bayan. This verse should be committed to writing, then the husband should hand the dowry to the wife and they, together with the witnesses, should put their seals on this document.  BH03181

In these writings that were sent by Mihdi, there was no letter from Haji Husayn indicating that the indigo payment should arrive here. If they have written something previously, it should be made known. In any case, according to the command, you must verify carefully. If they have indeed sent a draft, very well; otherwise action must be taken according to his writing. There was nothing about a draft in these writings. Send the receipt so that it can be properly determined.   BH08809

They had written a packet in that honored one's name to be sent. These are Tablets that some had specifically requested to be sent together with the Austrian steamer. They had written that when the Tablets arrived, the packet had already been given to the post, and there was no opportunity to write another letter. Therefore it was sent there to be forwarded by the Russian steamer. And the other items that were sent all arrived and were handled according to what was written.  BH04765

Regarding the rental agreement between two believers that you wrote about, where the lessor will not accept the rental payment and the lessee insists on paying - this matter is cause for much joy and gladness, for praise be to God, there is no dispute over demand and refusal, rather the difference is over receiving and giving. How wonderful that each considers the other deserving. When such a difficulty arises, that amount should go to charitable causes so both may be satisfied.  AB03482

Regarding the purchase of land in Haifa previously mentioned, most of the shares from various places, namely Egypt, Port Said, Beirut and Akka, were, according to instructions, returned to their owners since no land was found to purchase. The manager of this matter was our Master, His Holiness the Blessed Branch, Aqa Mirza Badi'u'llah - may my spirit be a sacrifice for his coming - therefore whatever they deemed appropriate was done and the remainder is being returned these days.   BH00824

The settlement of affairs and payment of the debts of the honored Afnan brought the utmost gladness and delight...Temporary losses are not important, for blessings will show their face again...The friends had pledged not to be excessive in purchases again and to conduct business with moderation, but they fell somewhat short in their promise and made abundant purchases. Therefore these difficulties arose. Again they will gradually be resolved and another day of commerce will come.   AB02878

During the lifetime of Baha'u'llah the inhabitants of the village Mokeiss were most anxious that I may buy half of their real state for Â£1.700 but I did not do it. I bought half of the village of Adassayah for only $1000 and half of the village of Nogaib for $300. In those days land was very cheap in these parts but since the construction of railroad all the prices are raised considerably, especially those lands which are situated in the vicinities of the stations all along the way.   ABU0998

O my Afnan! As to what was written concerning the property of Jinab-i-Aqa Muhammad-'Ali (Bahram), upon him be the Glory of God, after being submitted before His presence, these words shone forth from the Dawning-Place of the All-Merciful's utterance - exalted and blessed be His Word: O my Afnan! Jinab-i-Muhammad-'Ali, upon him be my Glory, praise be to God, has attained to acceptance and devotion, despite being in lands where the fire of hatred blazes and from which foul odors spread.  BH03733

As for the account of the land of Shin, it appeareth that the Siyyid of that land's inattention hath caused an uproar to arise. The affairs of His Holiness Afnan of the land of Shin (upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious) have apparently suffered somewhat due to the disorder in the affairs of certain other Afnans (upon them be the Glory of God and His loving-kindness), as their sudden movement during the rainy season and their physical illness prove what hath been submitted.   BH00756

Prayer beads made of pearls â€" one of the most precious of the household possessions of the Blessed Beauty, and valued at 10,000 tumans in the currency of those days â€" had been spared for us. After our possessions had been looted, we were obliged to leave this string of beads in a trust for 1,000 tumans. Since interest charges were accumulating, we could not afford to reclaim it. Today, if those same prayer beads were still in our possession, they could be sold for 100,000 tumans in Paris.  ABU1117

Other letters did not arrive due to travel, movement, and disruption of postal routes. However, some time ago a letter was written to you with complete instructions and recommendations that you should exercise the utmost trustworthiness, religiosity, faithfulness and diligence in service to the person by whom you are employed, for they showed the utmost consideration toward Mr. Furughi in Khurasan. In response to such humaneness, you too must conduct yourself with sincerity of intention and effort.  AB00235

The night he died, his son-in-law thought Jamal-i-Mubarak would seize all his property. He sowed enmity and hatred in the hearts of the daughter and heirs, saying that one day Jamal-i-Mubarak would make a claim. Finally their relationship deteriorated until his wife and daughter came before the Blessed Presence and begged Jamal-i-Mubarak to take possession of that property. Jamal-i-Mubarak said, "I had one Haji Hashim in that house. I took my Haji Hashim out of that house, nothing else belongs to me."  ABU1672

The merchants of Bushihr practiced dabbih. That is, the merchants, after having negotiated a transaction and agreed upon its terms, would ask for a reduction in the price at the time of payment. In this way, they would get some money back from the seller. One day certain merchants went to the Bab and made an agreement for the purchase of a large amount of indigo. After this agreement, they carried the goods to their own store. When the time for payment arrived, they asked for a reduction in the price.  ABU0634

The purpose was that his honor 'Ali-Ashraf entrusted his garden to our care, therefore we want that garden to be cultivated to the extent possible. We placed Mr. Qasim there to plant trees, but for some time, since no spade was obtained, it has remained delayed and suspended. Since in Haifa due to difficulties the matter of the spade was prolonged, we therefore said perhaps the blacksmith of Akka would prepare it quickly. Now since you have ordered them, definitely take both spades at whatever price possible.   AB12093

Regarding your inquiry about sending funds, a telegram was sent to Mr. Bagheroff through Mirza Jalal, and now again it is being written to you that the Imperial Bank of Tehran should, through the Anglo-Egyptian Bank in London, issue a draft to the Anglo-Egyptian Bank in Haifa. Once submitted to the Imperial Bank, inform here by telegram. For now, there is no better way than this. Regarding the property that his honor Bagheroff sold to you, whatever you and Mr. Bagheroff deem advisable is acceptable and agreeable.  AB02877

They wrote that they were indebted thirty tumans from the funds of Hadba. Let Jinab-i-Zayn settle that debt. Regarding the matter of taking fifty majidis and giving them to Jinab-i-Haji Ali -- upon him be the Glory of God -- for his claim, what was done was both beloved and desired. And concerning what was written about not yet having given to Jinab-i-Aqa Muhammad Ali Kabir -- upon him be the Glory of God -- and intending to give later, this matter is not necessary at present, as it would delay the work of that honored one.   BH01344

Furthermore, regarding the aforementioned sum that the honored Afnan had mentioned - verily he is the trustee from the presence of the Truth. This was decreed aforetime from One All-Knowing, All-Wise. We had previously given permission that whatever amount your honor needs for occupation may be requested. Now the decree remains the same, however major commerce in that land is not permitted for your honor. Let it be just enough to keep you occupied and to expend, for enemies seek to grasp at various pretexts and arise in pursuit.   BH00873

O servant of Baha! After all moisture has been removed from silkworm eggs, place them in small bottles but do not fill them completely. Leave an opening in the bottle so that air may enter. Keep them in places free from moisture where excessive heat will not affect them, where there is air circulation. During the silk season, the eggs should be placed in a room where sunlight enters and air circulates, with sufficient warmth for the silkworms to emerge from their eggs. When this is done, the Gilan eggs will also prove beneficial.  AB02964

According to what has been heard, Ilyas Bey has handed over or leased 'Adasiyyih to you and another person. In any case, we gave 'Adasiyyih to the aforementioned Bey to develop it, not to ruin it. However, the promise of development he made - namely the stone buildings and factories to separate cotton seeds from cotton - for which, according to the ledger he provided, he intended to spend twenty thousand liras, shows no sign of materialization. Rather, 'Adasiyyih has fallen into ruin and not one of his commitments has been fulfilled.  AB11199

I am encompassed by assaulting multitudes of mischief, difficulties, and calumnies, and because I must write to the whole world, not a moment is left to me. Notwithstanding, I write in my own hand that ye may realize how profoundly I care about this important undertaking. The object is, God willing, that the house adjacent to that Sanctified Court will be purchased, that none might be permitted to verbally or physically become presumptuous towards it. This house will be like a fortified foundation and a secure and permanent perimeter.  AB02460

Three items have arrived from Tehran in Europe from Aqa Siyyid Nasru'llah and Haji Ghulam-Rida, but regarding the significant amount, namely four hundred pounds - they had sent the first copy to Port Said in the name of Aqa Siyyid Muhsin, and the second copy has arrived here but its receipt is not yet known...The draft of one thousand pounds that was sent to Tehran to Haji Ghulam-Rida was received, but during the time of upheaval two thousand pounds had been borrowed from Amatu'l-Baha Barney, and now one thousand pounds of that is being paid.   AB05487

It is related that the Bab - may the spirit of all in the kingdom be sacrificed for Him - in the days when He was engaged in commerce in Bushihr, one day some people came to His blessed presence on behalf of the King of Merchants and purchased some goods. As it was an old custom of that city to claim loss three times in the indigo trade, after three days someone came into His presence and stated that the King of Merchants was claiming a loss in this transaction. Upon hearing these words, His Holiness withdrew from the original transaction completely.  BH11021

As for what prompts the writing of this letter: first, mention of you and news of your health and wellbeing; and second, at this time they instructed me to inform you that this year sufficient wheat has not been obtained. What was acquired will not, God willing, suffice for the travelers and residents, and funds are not available. We tried to borrow from some but were unsuccessful... Therefore, as instructed, it would be appreciated if you could send whatever amount possible from the requested funds, so that pure and desirable wheat might be obtained.  BH01913

First, they should cease purchasing for the shop; second, they should endeavor to sell, even if it be with the assistance of those who peddle goods in the streets and bazaars; third, they should strive to collect any scattered debts they may have; fourth, if possible they should auction all the goods at once, or gradually over a specified period; fifth, they should not sell on credit, meaning they should not give goods to anyone to sell later and send the payment - it would be better and more prudent to sell everything for cash, even if at a small loss.  BH09212

Regarding the ruler for the pot lid, it was supposed that his honor Haji Siyyid Javad, upon him be Baha'u'llah's glory, would examine that ruler - it is very pleasing. Regarding the ruler for the basin, this one is not bad either, though the previous basin seemed better, therefore it was sent according to your honor's request. Regarding the tray, it was given to his honor Khwajih and what you had written was mentioned. He said that a tray is not needed now - he wanted several coffee pots, and when the brass arrives, instructions will be given afterwards.   BH03911

And as for the matter of Jenab-i-Haji Ghulam-Rida and purchasing property in Haifa and engaging in commerce there - this is not permissible these days, for property values in Haifa have greatly increased while generating no income - it is purely speculative. For example, a piece of land that generates no income is bought and sold for ten thousand tumans in hopes that its value will increase, and this amount in these regions is equivalent to a thousand tumans. Moreover, commerce in Haifa is disrupted and Jenab-i-Haji Ghulam-Rida should arise to serve in Tehran.  AB01464

Our first loan to Hajji was six thousand tumans, and this second loan which we have newly taken is also four to five thousand tumans. Thus we now owe eleven thousand tumans. This borrowing from last year until now was unavoidable. Now since the journey to America lies ahead, therefore this second loan was taken. In any case, from now on whatever arrives must go toward paying off this loan. We will manage and make do with whatever is available in America. You should think about having the loan repaid. The burden of debt is very heavy. I do not want you to be in debt.  AB03331

At one time His Holiness the King of Martyrs (may the spirit of those near unto God be sacrificed for him) wrote to His Holiness Ismu'llah (upon him be the Most Glorious Glory): There exists a property belonging to this servant in which no one has any share. I request permission to sell it and send its proceeds to the Most Holy Court. For some time there was delay in accepting this until they repeatedly made the request. Then acceptance was granted with the instruction that they themselves should undertake its cultivation, and an arrangement was made concerning its yield.  BH01358

Ten majidis were allocated to be given, and afterwards, for as long as they are occupied with treatment, one quarter majidi should be given daily to his family, and from the time this letter arrives, give them for one full month. And regarding what you had written about some old belongings of the departed Aqa Muhammad Hadi being given to Mulla Muhammad Ali, and one majidi being given as payment - the command is that Mulla Muhammad Ali should deliver that one majidi to the heirs of the departed one, and in exchange one majidi will be given here to the aforementioned gentleman.   BH02476

When those two Afnans came here as strangers, they mentioned that what had been allocated to them was not reaching them, affairs were not in order, and it was observed that if their lives were to continue in the present manner, no fruit would be yielded whatsoever. If deemed advisable, they could engage in some work themselves and manage a shop, which would surely bear fruit. In brief, they expressed much complaint about the fruitlessness of their present situation. This servant also noted that they are clever; though their transactions may be modest at first, expansion will occur in the future.   AB00155

Their intention is that the funds which are in your honor's keeping should be delivered to his honor Nazir. Indeed, they strongly emphasized this, hoping that through your honor's efforts, they might be relieved of this embarrassment. There has never been any doubt that if funds were available in your honor's keeping, they would be given. Therefore, as commanded, it should be written to his honor Afnan, Haji Seyyed Ali, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God, that from the proceeds of the property sale, they should deliver the amount of his claim to his honor Nazir, upon him be the Glory of God.  BH05734

In any case, there are two boxes of the honored Varqa's writings with Jinab-i-Samandar. We have written to him to deliver them to you, for this is a great inheritance belonging to Jinab-i-Aqa 'Azizu'llah. Also regarding the sum that is with the honored Afnan, send one hundred tumans of it to the sorrowful, oppressed leaf, the sister of the honored Varqa, the Garden of Sanctification, and give the remainder to a highly trustworthy and reliable person to divide the profit equally between her and Jinab-i-'Azizu'llah, or arrange it in some other way that will provide benefit for Jinab-i-Aqa 'Azizu'llah.   AB01829

Affairs here are as described, therefore nothing can be drafted to the Afnan, nor can they be charged with matters requiring immediate payment. Thus is this Wronged One perplexed. Aqa 'Ali-Haydar and the Trustee have also been afflicted. The honored Afnan Haji Siyyid 'Ali has gone to 'Ishqabad where, as bidden, all properties have been put up for sale. Indeed, all have adhered to this and there has been no laxity in carrying out the decree. They have announced that they will sell whatever they possess in 'Ishqabad, and seekers from every direction have come forward for the purchase of the properties.   BH00685

The financial constraints, mounting debts, and difficulties of the store have caused this servant great sorrow. Indeed, as this company has become known by the name of the people of truth, these difficulties and constraints have become a source of distress. However, during these years of upheaval in Iran - God knows with what trouble and hardship this servant managed affairs, and recourse to any alternative would have been extremely unpleasant. Placing trust in God, we somehow managed to get through those days. Therefore, we were unable to assist the store, and for this we are embarrassed and ashamed.  AB08663

Another submission is that when the honored Mirza Ali-Akbar was present, he mentioned certain trees which could be sent from that land, including a special variety of wild rose that exists in that region and would be sent. The details of this matter are that with great difficulty they were sent from two locations in Iran - from Tabriz and Shiraz - but neither arrived. Therefore Mirza Ali-Akbar mentioned that it is found specifically there and would be sent. He also mentioned the Aghalib-Tus tree which they plant and grow for changing the air, as well as Indian oranges and certain other trees and flowers.   BH00825

As to what thou hast mentioned concerning the debt of him who was named Muhammad, excellent is that which thou hast done. Blessed art thou for having borne hardships in thy Lord's path. He repayeth whomsoever He willeth whatsoever He pleaseth. Verily thy Lord is the Mighty, the Generous. If the loved ones in that land are able to give to certain of God's loved ones and handmaidens, with utter humility and submissiveness, and complete detachment and absolute freedom from worldly ornaments, it would be and will be acceptable in the sight of God - that is, they should record all as a debt until an appointed time.  BH00747

And regarding what you wrote that there are many options available - indeed it is just as you wrote. It is very good that you have made inquiries from others besides Habib. This servant had also intended to mention to you that there are some good craftsmen there - do make inquiries from them as well as from Habib. Praise be to God that beloved one has, of his own accord, done what was in this evanescent one's mind. Now what is needed is to meet with you. Please determine from Nicholas the mason what daily wages would be required if we were to request a master craftsman to come to Akka. Please specify this matter.  BH00830

The matter of the Afnan requireth attention. His own view is not known. They are aware of the available persons; whomsoever they request will be sent. Jenab-i-Amin, upon him be Baha'u'llah, was dispatched according to instructions solely so that the Afnan would not be alone; there was no other intention whatsoever. In any case, there are many rabble and ruffians in that city. They must conduct themselves in such a manner as to ensure the confidence of the merchants from all regions, and they must spend within measure. The means have not been and will not be withheld; they must hold fast to this and act accordingly.   BH01274

As His Honor Haji, like a creditor - a Turkish colonel and Azerbaijani soldier - is present, and this servant, like a devoted debtor, is penniless, perplexed and thoughtful about how to pay this debt of one thousand tumans profit each month, since Haji adds a profit to the requested letters each month. For some time, due to great occupations, they had given this respite and were being very reasonable. But now today, like a creditor who, fearing the debtor's bankruptcy, becomes restless and agitated, they have suddenly appeared and at once want to collect five promissory notes, and will not leave until they get them.   AB02476

The following day I said to the Qadi that the estate of 'Abdu'llah Pasha must be sold and spent towards his funeral expenses. That very day Qarah-ghul came and sold everything and raised a thousand and some Qurush. There was a certain Ibrahim Effendi who wanted to buy the fur coat of the deceased, but I did not let him. Later I paid for the coat and gave it to him. Repeatedly he said, "O Effendi! We were waiting for his day," but I heeded him not. I then said to the city's treasurer that 'Abdu'llah Pasha's stipend had not been paid for several months and asked if it was possible to collect it and spend it for his funeral and other of his expenses.  ABU0073

Regarding what you wrote about Aqa 'Ali, upon him be God's peace, that a portion of his money should be taken out and put in the name of the house door - after submission they said: "We have accepted his love and kindness, but if it reverts to himself it would be better, since until now no profit has appeared from the trades. Therefore it is best that it revert to him until God brings His grace, generosity and bounty." And likewise regarding what you wrote about the funds, as commanded, whatever way they deem advisable to act is acceptable. However they said that now all attention must be on external affairs, meaning endeavoring to pay external debts.   BH00999

And concerning what was written about the funds, the noble letter arrived and was submitted. He commanded that either a property be built from it or land be purchased so that enduring traces may remain for the senders. Previously these details were commanded to be written and sent to his honor Name of God M - upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty of God - and then your honor's letter arrived stating that one portion had been sent and the other portion would be sent the following week, and news of the first portion has also arrived from the land of S, and there is also some land, that is a village, at auction though its matter has not yet been concluded.   BH00442

It is very difficult to arrange the matter concerning Mrs B's land. The work which Assad'u'llah and Fareed did was not solid. At that time they should have secured a title from the government. They failed to do this. Now it would be better to sell it. It is worth twice as much as she paid for it. If she paid 100 lbs, sell it for 200 lbs. Find out how much she paid, then after the price is found out it can be bought by some one. This is better. It is in the name of Enayatullah, and not Mrs. B., so it can be sold. If it were in her name it could not be sold. I have thought much over this and have come to that conclusion. I will pay Mrs. B. the price if she is willing to sell.  ABU0939

Regarding the inquiry about Huquq, how much should be paid on nineteen mithqals - God's ordinance has been set at nineteen percent. Calculate accordingly and it will become clear what amount applies to nineteen. It was also asked whether, if it exceeds nineteen, it must reach another nineteen or if the excess is also subject to Huquq. Whatever exceeds nineteen is not subject to Huquq until it reaches another nineteen. As commanded, write to Nun and Jim that wherever divine Huquq remains unpaid, they should collect it and send it to Jinab-i-Amin or Jinab-i-Samandar, upon them be the Glory of God, obtain a receipt, and report back so that action may be taken according to His will.  BH00187

Furthermore, Haji Abbas-Ali, the merchant of Shiraz, has raised his hands in supplication and has written to this servant from Egypt mentioning a partnership and including a complaint. Although it is known from your good conduct, manner and character that it is impossible that you would delay in fulfilling anyone's rights or leave them unattended, nevertheless it would be most acceptable in the Holy Presence if some way could be found to satisfy this person or at least quiet him. Now his letter is being sent exactly as received, and he has also sent a copy of the partnership agreement which is with me. I await your reply so that I may send a detailed response to that person's letter.  AB02764

After some time, a certain Haji Hasan appeared - he was not a believer but he was trustworthy. He said, "I had three thousand five hundred ashrafis from the Khan and now I want to deliver them to you." She said, "After Muhammad Khan what would I do with this money? It would be good if you gave it to his family in Tehran." He said, "I don't know about these matters. If it must be delivered to them..."  You come too and together we'll go hand it over. In short, they went together and handed it over. Mirza Reza-Quli had a cousin named Mirza Ahmad, who became a Catholic and married Muhammad-Taqi Khan's wife and spent all that money. The Khan's son and daughter grew up and received none of the money.  ABU0578

Regarding what you wrote about Mulla Ja'far Naraqi, who prior to the Manifestation considered himself among the Letters of the Living of the Bayan, and who declared that everyone who followed the Bayan must meticulously calculate all their possessions and pay its Huquq, even on their clothing and attire, and some people at that time who accepted his word paid whatever amounts they could - whether the Ancient Beauty would accept what was given as Huququ'llah, or whether it must be recalculated and paid according to this Dispensation: When this matter was presented before the Most Holy Court, He stated that Mulla Ja'far had no permission from anyone and spoke and ruled according to his own desires.  BH00145

In these days a matter hath come to pass which the assured ones and the sincere ones must needs take note of, namely that the honored Afnan, his eminence Aqa Mirza Aqa, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, after turning to the Desired One and attaining His presence, and in view of the fact that in the Book of God everyone is commanded to engage in some occupation, craft or trade, he, after obtaining permission, set out for Port Said where he hath engaged in commerce and in truth hath held fast to serving the Cause and is a source of joy and comfort to the emigrants. His wife resideth in that land and there is no one to arrange her departure and look after the affairs of this Afnan of the Sacred Tree.  BH11665

The telegraph expense is accepted and recorded in the account, but the reckoning is with the noble scribes. Regarding return, it was previously written that the Iraq route is more suitable and the judgment of His Excellency accords with wisdom. Communicate and request instructions. If you return with the permission of the Na'ibu's-Saltanih and the assembly it would certainly be better. It was also written before to communicate from Iraq, and the purpose of communication was to obtain permission, for the government's purse is empty like the heart of Moses' mother, and due to need they will try to obtain money from anyone by any means. If you proceed without permission, they will use this as a pretext to demand funds.  AB09300

What is remarkable is that Jinab-i-Ismu'llah Mim Ha, upon whom be all the most glorious Glory, despite being very particular and precise, wrote that the great upheaval that occurred in the land of Sad was all calmed through the wise management of Jinab-i-Ismu'llah Ha, and the captured souls were freed. His Holiness the Kalim, may my spirit and being be sacrificed for him, did not have much cultivation. They acquired a piece of land and some cultivation has been done for the recreation of the Most Great Branch, may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of his most pure footsteps, and others who occasionally honor it with their presence. Consider its affairs like the affairs of this prison - there has been no order and arrangement, and these days it remains suspended.  BH05929

During the time that His Holiness the Exalted One lived in Bushihr and was in the trading business, a few merchants bought some Prussian blue dye from His blessed Person. When their negotiations were over, the goods were delivered to their office and the time came to settle the account. But they abandoned their agreement and began bargaining anew. This was the practice of the merchants in Bushihr in former days. When the transaction was concluded, the buyer would dismiss the contract and begin renegotiating, in order to get a better price or a discount. Consequently, the merchants reneged on the price. However, His Holiness did not agree to it. They persisted, but He responded, Our negotiations were completed. If you do not want to buy [the goods], cancel the contract altogether.  ABU3669

At last I went to an Arab friend of mine and borrowed from him £20 at 2 per cent. This money I took to a merchant who was in former time a grain-dealer but now out of work. I told him We will enter into a partnership[,] the Capital from me, the labor from you. With this fund you will deal four months in grain. After paying off all the expenses of rent etc; and receiving your monthly salary, we will divide the net profit; one third for you and two third for me. We entered into this agreement and he engaged in business. After four months we cleared our accounts. I payed the debt with its two per cent; the merchant received his one third of the net profit, all the other expenses defrayed and 80 pounds left in the balance for me. With that sum, then I built a bath in the house which is kept intact up to the present day.   ABU1269

As for the land in Port Said, when the late respected father was in Port Said and was planning to return to Shiraz, he wrote to me asking that I instruct Aqa Ahmad to purchase Mirza Aqa's land, as funds were needed for the journey. I wrote to Aqa Ahmad at that time, and Aqa Ahmad purchased that land and sent me the official documents and papers, which are among my papers. After the departure of the Afnan, Aqa Ahmad requested these documents. I wrote that I did not have time to locate these papers which were stored away with books and Tablets. Therefore, I asked him to write again to the Afnan to obtain and send a deed from Aqa Mirza Aqa, which the Afnan obtained and sent at that time. This transaction was conducted through me, and those original documents are preserved among my papers, though time is needed to search for and send them.   AB00584

When Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'l-Husayn was departing, I wished to present him with travel expenses, but due to scarcity of funds it was not possible. It was arranged that he would borrow from his fellow traveler and you would repay it there. Please deliver one hundred tumans, and henceforth if you send ____, stipulate that the German consul here should deliver gold, not bank notes, as they depreciate greatly and people accept them only reluctantly with a discount. Thus far through the United Company, one sum of two hundred pounds has arrived, another of two hundred and fifty, and a third of two hundred and ten, and another telegram has come from the United Company saying they have sent two hundred and fifty, but it has not yet arrived. All these amounts have gone to accumulated debts, as we were indebted to the sons of ?adiq Pasha, and the debt bore interest, and they still have an outstanding claim.  AB01311

As to what was written concerning the House and his honor Mirza regarding [Baha'u'llah]: their best course is to say what they had said at first and acknowledge that all these properties belong there. If from the beginning, during the upheavals in that land, they had spoken truthfully and stated that these properties were not theirs, none of these matters would have occurred and they would have found themselves at ease in every way. For His Holiness and they themselves know that in this place nothing even as fine as a hair has emerged or will emerge that deviates from justice and fairness, and their interests would certainly have been protected in any case. A hundred thousand regrets that one should be heedless of what benefits them and be unaware of their own harm and benefit. All their properties revert to this place according to valid deeds, but when the decree of imprisonment, trials and emigration came to pass, they did not release even one house.   BH00908

From the annual income man must deduct his yearly expenditure. Then from residue 19 percent must be given as Huquq. This means that during the year a personal income from his business is 1000 pounds. His yearly expenditure, which amounts to 600 pounds, must be deducted. Four hundred pounds will be the residue. From this 400 pounds nineteen percent Huquq must be taken. That is, from every hundred pounds of this 400 pounds, nineteen percent, whose total will be 76 pounds, which must be taken as Huquq, to be spent for benevolent purposes (public interests). From all property every year Huquq should not be taken. A person may possess 100,000 pounds. It is not possible for him to give Huquq from this 100,000 pounds every year. For instance thou shouldst deliver thy yearly expenditure from what thy income in one year is, and then from the residue thou should pay Huquq. But the property (income) for last year whose Huquq hath already been paid, this year hath no more Huquq to be paid.   AB04325

Another matter concerns the return of the beloved of the heart, His Honour Amin, upon him be God's peace and favors. Until now, which is nearly a year, nothing substantial has arrived. That beloved one is aware that in these days they wrote to this servant that if you wish to receive two hundred Ottoman liras from the beloved His Honour Shaykh, upon him be Baha'u'llah's glory, the funds are available here. They wished to send it to His Honour, the beloved of the heart, upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty of Baha'u'llah, and they also sent some to purchase and send silk from Rasht. Then they suspended it, writing that they feared it might result in loss like the shawl of the previous year. In any case, if possible, they should send it. That beloved one is aware of the affairs here and the expenses of this land. Likewise, thirty Ottoman liras have been sent as a personal trust by His Honour Afnan, upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty of Baha'u'llah. They have written for that beloved one to send this as well.   BH01045

Among the foundations of the prosperity and development of countries, human comfort, orderly conditions, and worldly happiness of nations and peoples is the establishment of companies, for major enterprises cannot be undertaken except through companies. This is the very thing that is the cause of the complete success and prosperity of the Western nations today. From the all-encompassing confirmation of the Ancient Beauty, it is known and certain that companies will soon be formed in Iran and great benefits and advantages will result. However, at present the friends in Iran are afflicted with famine and high prices and are in complete hardship. Such companies are formed from surplus capital beyond what is needed. If announced now, it will not succeed and will cause humiliation to the Cause of God, just as a company was announced in Egypt, and since it did not ultimately materialize, it caused distress of mind and became the cause of general sorrow and great coldness, resulting in complete embarrassment before outsiders.  AB08584

Be thou a trafficker of the spirit and with the choicest merchandise acceptable in the presence of the All-Merciful travel from this contingent world to the Placeless Country of the Well-Beloved. In this wise shall thine every apparent loss be transformed into limitless gain and every damage bring forth profit in the Garden of His divine good pleasure. For at the end of the day profit in this evanescent realm is naught but loss and gain brings only ruination. When thou dost enter the market place of the All-Merciful which is in the divine Kingdom, however, thou shalt become the manifestation of His grace and bountiful favour. There wilt thou find the merchandise that real kings might long for and thus wilt thou become a judge of true gems. In thy palm shalt thou hold pearls unparalleled and rubies and corals too. Herein lies real business and true commerce. Seek for this kind of magnificent profit and strive to obtain this glorious treasure as much as is within thy power so that thou shalt amass exceeding wealth and abundant riches.   AB06624

Aqa Muhammad 'Ali's occupation was separate, his affairs distinct, having no connection whatsoever with the Shaykh. Nevertheless, he tore away the veil of contentment and arose with complete greed to harm and show enmity toward the Shaykh. Day and night, before those within and without, he was aflame with the fire of greed and strove diligently to destroy the Shaykh's work. And according to what is known, the Shaykh's trade was also confused for two reasons: for whatever one would build up, another would tear down, and in some transactions losses occurred. The honored master, his eminence the Afnan of the Land of Ya wrote a detailed letter to this servant. Among other things, he complained about the trade in the Great City and mentioned that his honored eminence the Afnan of the Land of Ha and he himself deemed it advisable to close the door of trade in that city, as did the other honored Afnans. They wrote that if it is necessary for an establishment to remain open in that city, that is another matter and depends upon the will - whatever is commanded shall be done.   BH00412

There are certain urgent expenses at hand, including the living expenses of your companion and others, and various other endless expenditures, and I am perplexed as to what should be done. Since Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Ja'far has written that from the sum they have sent for purchasing land, whatever remains should be given to the household, and in these days the affairs of the household are as disheveled as your beard and as scattered as your hair, with absolutely no recourse left - the destitute are in God's protection - therefore, if you deem it advisable, use the remaining sum thus: fifteen liras for the price of candles from Aqa Ahmad's draft, pay your companion's living expenses, pay the postal fees, deliver two liras to Husayn Effendi's house, give one lira to Hibatullah, take four liras yourself, and write to Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Ja'far that since in these days extreme hardship in household expenses had arisen, and since you had written likewise, out of kindness they said to use that sum for the aforementioned items. However, this amount is a debt upon me. God willing, it will be repaid in summer when it is building season, so that construction may be done on the land, for winter is not the season for building.  AB11227

Two years ago, one of the friends besought Tablets from the heaven of divine favor and wrote several names, but four names were written incorrectly -- for example, writing Muhammad instead of Hassan, and Hussein instead of Ahmad. This causes delay and confusion. Although these servants write the names at the head of the Tablets according to how the friends mention them, in any case this matter requires attention and consideration so that names are written correctly. Regarding the two sums of money about which you wrote in these days -- one from the Land of Ha and another from 'Aliyyih -- news of their arrival has come; God willing, they will arrive. As commanded, the sum of one hundred tumans must reach Jinab-i-Samandar -- upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God -- as it was assigned to him to give to two persons, which he has done and sent the receipt. That honored one must pay the debt of God, exalted be His glory. Likewise, deliver fifty tumans to the honored wife of him who ascended unto God (the late Mirza Ahmad Khan) and send the receipt. And He said: We must impose a fine upon Jinab-i-Amin! We have one treasurer and he is bankrupt! Gracious God, there is one treasury belonging to God, and that is empty of funds. Indeed, by virtue of its exalted station, such a treasury ought to be freed and sanctified from earthly things and not be confused with the treasuries of the world.   BH01450
