My purpose is that you study the sciences and knowledge   AB04244

Thou shouldst not be remiss in acquiring that which will conduce to progress and advancement.  BH10084

Become fountains of knowledge and learning, and the wise ones of the world of grace and insight.   AB07241

engage in acquiring divine knowledge, and in the school of truth learn lessons from the teacher of love  AB03926

Strive to acquire knowledge and wisdom, and exert mighty efforts to gain both outer and inner perfections.  AB01427

I hope that thou wilt progress more and more; that thou wilt increase thy knowledge and science; and that thou wilt ever strive for gentleness and love.  AB01567

Ye must therefore put forth a mighty effort, striving by night and day and resting not for a moment, to acquire an abundant share of all the sciences and arts   AB06380

You must ever concentrate your thoughts on the acquisition of knowledge, so that unlimited confirmations may continually descend upon you from the Kingdom of God  AB08788

that they may master the findings of modern sciences and arts, that they may study the material knowledges and teach the supernal knowledges of the Kingdom of God   ABU1121

"I hope that in a short time they will make complete progress and acquire sciences and arts" and "that each of you may acquire sciences and become proficient in various arts"   AB02683

I hope that you will be successful in this, that your thought will be that these souls become knowing, that all may acquire sciences and arts, and that the time for acquiring knowledge is from life's beginning to its end.   ABU0439

Strive diligently to acquire both outward and inward perfections...Therefore you must needs adorn, according to your capacity and means, the tree of your being with the fruits of knowledge and wisdom, of meanings and utterance.  BH09996

The heartfelt desire of the kind 'Abdu'l-Baha is that each of the Baha'i youth become renowned throughout all regions in knowledge and wisdom, and they will certainly exert their utmost effort, endeavor and zeal in acquiring sciences and arts.  AB06122

whole-hearted service to the Cause of education, the unfolding of the mysteries of nature, the extension of the boundaries of pure science, the elimination of the causes of ignorance and social evils, the standardization of a universal system of instruction, and the diffusion of the lights of knowledge and reality.   ABU1650

As much as thou art able, encourage all to acquire useful knowledge that they may benefit therefrom and become sources of illumination in the world of humanity, that those walking in the darkness of ignorance may become enlightened and those who are unlettered in this age may attain at least the first degree of understanding.  AB08508

It is incumbent upon every soul to acquire learning and to learn the rudiments of essential knowledge at least to the degree of being able to read and write... strive that the newcomers and young ones of this wondrous Day may become aware of significant truths, may learn new disciplines, may at all times become more aware, more cognizant, more knowledgeable, may benefit from the beneficial sciences and useful arts.   AB03935

One who thirsts for knowledge - his education is not limited by boundaries. Though he may be at home, his true nest and dwelling is in reality in the schools, for day and night he strives to obtain a word from every book and memorize a phrase from every treatise, and studies it deeply, and from every scholar he encounters, he seeks explanation of those questions. It is certain that ultimately he will become a peerless scholar and an unequaled learned one.  AB05096

Let the furniture of your mind consist of the most precious ideals of this or any other age; let the walls of the galleries of your hearts be adorned with the costliest master-thoughts of the poets and philosophers; illumine the halls of your souls with the electrical concepts of the wise and the sage; decorate the tables of your spirits with the flowers of the imaginations of the scientists and inventors; embellish the museums of your brains with the noble meditations and antique reflections of ancient thinkers; adorn the long vistas of your intellects with the attributes of Knighthood and courage of the heroes of bygone centuries; beautify the gardens of your understanding with the sweet flowers of every clime and bedeck the dome of the palace of your intelligences with the glistening stars of spirituality.   ABU1397
