
O friends! Hold fast unto unity and harmony.  BH05961

The True One hath ever summoned the people to unity and concord.  BH00004

no harm has been or will be greater than discord between the friends   BH07568

and lifted high the word of unity, and brought low the standard of discord   AB11701

Today they must conduct themselves with perfect unity, fellowship and wisdom  BH04269

The leaders of mankind must at all time work for the spread of the principles of Unity.  ABU2783

You have no contending thoughts and seek no divergent opinions. You are united and in agreement   AB06059

In all ages and centuries, discord hath been and still is the cause of degradation and abasement.   BH06013

You must strive with utmost effort to completely remove this discord and establish love and affection.  AB00621

The most important matter today is unity and harmony. No one should interfere with or object to another.  AB01903

if affection is not established, the inevitable result will be separation, dispersion, regret and remorse.  AB03940

We spread the carpet of fellowship and seek the path of universal love and peace and wish eternal life for all  AB00771

From every word of the revealed words, those possessed of true hearing perceive the blessed word 'Victory through unity.'  BH02395

that the Oneness of the entire human race, composed of all the diverse, antagonistic and distinct ethnic groups prevails   AB06664

Display thou an effort in order to bring unity and agreement among the friends so that all of them may become as one soul.  AB04859

The cause of weakness among the people of unity hath been discord. Now all must hold fast to the cord of unity and concord   BH06998

You must become engaged in creating harmony and union to such an extent that all of you may become as one soul and one spirit.  AB06944

Ask God, exalted be His glory, to illumine all with the splendors of the Sun of unity and adorn them with the robe of oneness.   BH02421

These causes [of disunity] are racial, patriotic and religious bias or prejudice. This bias will be removed and when it is removed, people will live in friendliness, kindness and love which will bring forth unity.  ABU3401

The believers in the West must constantly strive for harmony and concord and be a source of affection and love to everyone they encounter  AB01509

This is that upon which all the believers will unite and harmonize. Therefore let nothing arise to cause separation among the chosen ones.   ABU1886

Had the principles of unity, taught by the Christ, remained in the hearts, men would have refrained from war. Universalism must be retaught.   ABU2416

in this Age of Radiance you will associate with utmost harmony and become the cause of removing discord and dissension among the people of the world   AB11770

Until the friends become as one being and move in complete unity, they will find no rest or tranquility, but rather will become scattered and dispossessed  AB01315

We have commanded and continue to command all the friends to unity and harmony, yet still the fragrance of this most exalted station hath not been detected.  BH01708

God grant that the light of unity may envelope the whole earth, and that the seal, "the Kingdom is God's", may be stamped upon the brow of all its peoples.  BH01352

We beseech God to preserve you and His loved ones from the evil of those who love discord. We ask of the True One that He may assist them to unity and harmony.   BH04584

Make not God's religion a cause of enmity. If this Word were to take hold in the world, all would find themselves at ease and in comfort.  BH07546

exert thine utmost in uniting the servants and strive diligently to foster love in their hearts.  BH11645

that perchance the breaths of revelation might illumine all with the light of unity, fellowship and love. BH04346

without cease I have reminded all to unity and forbidden strife and contention.  BH09313


The most pressing need today is harmony and union among the friends of God. Therein endeavour, not until this unity in particular is realised can universal harmony be established.   AB01375

In most of the Tablets We have commanded all the friends to unity and harmony... All must gird up the loins of service and remove estrangements and differences from among themselves.   BH07024

We have desired good for all the peoples of the world. Our purpose is that the causes of discord be eliminated from all horizons, and that the light of unity illuminate all hearts and minds.   BH01302

God willing, we hope that you will make this blessed night the night of unity, and all become united with one another, adorned with the ornament of praiseworthy virtues and excellent character.  BH02157

It is incumbent upon you to have union and harmony and love and uprightness, and to be characterized with the morals of your Lord, the Clement; to walk in the highway of equity and beneficence.  AB02318

You must absolutely avoid anything that could cause even an atom of discord. Never allow anyone to create an opening even as small as a hair's breadth that could lead to division and dispersion.   AB02561

this Wronged One hath, from the earliest days until now, striven mightily to reform souls and unite hearts, that the horizons of the world might be illumined with the light of concord among nations   BH01537

I hope that you will cling to this love, become the cause of the appearance of this love, become the dawning-place of the shining forth of this brotherhood, become the means of spreading these fragrances   ABU1130

Abandon dissimulation and hold fast unto unity. Thus doth He command you Who possesseth the knowledge of the heavens and the earth. Set right your mutual differences through this Name that ruleth over the worlds.   BH07195

Beseech thou God that He may gather all beneath the shadow of one Word. Whosoever in this day spendeth his time in promoting concord and unity among souls is recorded in God's Book as one of the bearers of His Throne.   BH04869

O friends, know that the believers of God must be the cause of union and love among all mankind, and until they attain to perfect harmony and agreement they will not become the remedy for the healing of this sick world.  AB10289

"All nations and all religions must be united. By that unity perfect peace would reign among men. Strife and animosity are due to misunderstandings. If these misunderstandings be removed then unity can be accomplished."  ABU2293

Whenever these people mention each other's leaders with due reverence then all sufferings and contentions shall cease and instead of hatred there will be love and instead of enmity and disunity there will be harmony and affection.  ABU3321

I hope that you will be among those who serve the world of humanity and who think about the betterment of the whole earth, so that East and West, and South and North, may embrace, and dissension and strife may disappear altogether.  AB01815

We seek peace and harmony and consistently call for unity and concord. We have written repeatedly that government and people must blend together like milk and sugar, otherwise progress and prosperity are impossible and unattainable.   AB01057

Be united, O peoples of the earth! Through your unity the heaven of tyranny shall be cleft asunder and the idols shall fall. We have borne afflictions for your salvation. BH00793

That soul and other loved ones must hold fast to the improvement of the world and the removal of differences between peoples, and must exert mighty efforts. BH05684

The purpose of bearing these successive tribulations and consecutive trials is that souls firm in their faith in God should walk together in perfect unity, in such wise that all difference, duality and estrangement might be effaced from their midst   BH00970

Whenever these people mention each other's leaders with due reverence then all sufferings and contentions shall cease and instead of hatred there will be love and instead of enmity and disunity there will be harmony and affection. This is my purpose.  ABU3321

I am thoroughly confident that beneficial results shall surely follow these meetings, and that they will become the means of establishing friendship and love among the world's different races  AB04999

United, in harmony, and detached unto God, we must strive to diffuse the divine fragrances and educate souls, and we must avoid whatever causes the least discord. AB03373

The divine friends must manifest such unity under the shade of the Word of Oneness that the fragrances of that unity and oneness will gather together the different, opposing, conflicting and hostile nations of the world at the banks of the divine sea of oneness.   AB05632

"He caused fellowship and agreement to exist between the representatives of varying denominations so that love became manifest among the contending religions. He created a condition of harmony among hostile sects and upheld the banner of the oneness of the world of humanity."  ABU0119

Then the Gardener of divine bounty will attend to pruning the flowers of realities and significances in the flowerbeds of the gardens of that country, and remove the thorns and weeds of religious and racial, national and personal, prejudices. And then the roses of unity of the human species, and of love and union will bloom.   AB01792

Hasten to love, to love, O people of the world! Hasten to harmony, to harmony, O creatures of the universe! Hasten to peace, to peace, O mankind! Hasten to safety, to safety, O concourse of the Divine! Hasten to concord, to concord, O hosts of the Merciful! AB04206

The people of Baha must be the cause of uniting all the nations. They must dispel inharmony and dispute. If you would all act entirely in accordance with the Teachings of Baha'u'llah no discord would ever appear. Then all disagreements will vanish, and be certain that the pavilion of Unity will be hoisted in the world of man.   ABU3588

Today the most important thing to be established is the unity of the Word of the beloved of God and fellowship, good feeling and love among the faithful ones and the maid-servants of the Merciful, for the foundation of the Religion of God and the fundamental basis of His Law is to establish harmony among all the nations and people of the world.  AB06810


O loved ones of God! Strive night and day, sacrifice your lives, and offer up your spirits so that you may remove conflict and contention from among all the peoples of the world, make the world a paradise garden, and free humanity in the Most Glorious Paradise - not that you yourselves should make such matters a means of argument, causes of dispute, and reasons for conflict.  AB00254

Let fragrant breezes from the revelations waft upon the friends and gladden them. All are remembered in the presence of the Wronged One and are recipients of His grace. That which is essential and binding today is unity and harmony. We beseech God to unite their hearts, to draw them nigh unto Him, and to acquaint them with that which will exalt them in all the worlds of His worlds.   BH00574

O people of the world! As you traverse the globe, you will observe that all that flourishes springs from fellowship and love, while all that lies in ruin stems from enmity and hatred. Yet humankind remains heedless and awakens not from this slumber of negligence, falling again into thoughts of conflict, strife and contention, arraying the ranks of war and charging forth upon the field of battle.  AB00053

O Lord! Thy counsels have spread far and wide to the East and West of the earth. Thou hast called all to love and harmony, to abandon discord throughout the world, that the East and West of the earth might embrace, that the peoples of the earth, both nomad and settled, might clasp hands, their dispersed elements be gathered, their disheveled state be put in order, their darkness be dispelled and their light shine forth.   AB00145

All must occupy themselves with unifying hearts and be detached and free from all else but God. A hundred thousand blessings upon the soul that hath today arisen to serve the Cause, for service hath degrees and ranks. Among the greatest services is the unification of hearts. The successful and sincere ones must turn to this mighty matter, that the effulgences of the Sun of unity may illumine their hearts. We have counseled all, both before and after, to unity.  BH02456

He gathered the scattered peoples of the world under the shade of the Divine Word and united the conflicting and contending peoples under the pavilion of divine love.  AB00790

