
He said there were two kinds of Manifestations, local like Isaiah, and universal, like Jesus Christ.  ABU3530

In the case of Prophets, some have the power to sway and subdue one country only, such as Syria, some have the power to sway many more countries.  ABU1858

Our Lord said it was quite true that all the great Prophets -- the Suns of God -- are without sin: though the word "prophet" is used in more senses than one by the Jews. A Great Prophet is always one to whom revealed writings have come.   ABU1695

"Yes and no, namely: each Manifestation has His prophetic mission and His prophetic character, but not each Prophet is at the same time a Manifestation. This, my friends, will immediately be shown, when we look at some of the Prophets and Manifestations separately."   ABU0374

Teachers are of two kinds: universal and special. The universal Instructors are the Prophets of God, and the special teachers are the philosophers. The philosophers are capable of educating and training a limited circle of human souls, whereas the holy, divine Manifestations of God confer general education upon humanity.  ABU0280

Among the Messengers are those whom We raise up in truth and send unto the servants with a Book and clear proof; among them are those whom We cause to speak through Our grace and whom We inspire with the wisdom of the Cause from Our presence - for verily We have power over all things; among them are those to whom We reveal through messengers from the angels; among them are those in whose breasts We cause the Spirit to speak with sanctified and wondrous inspirations; and among them are those whom We manifest with all of these and make them the manifestation of all names between earth and heaven.   BH00532

There are three kinds of divine Prophets. One kind are the universal Manifestations, which are even as the sun. Through Their advent the world of existence is renewed, a new cycle is inaugurated, a new religion is revealed, souls are quickened to a new life, and East and West are flooded with light. These Souls are the universal Manifestations of God and have been sent forth to the entire world and the generality of mankind. Another kind of Prophets are followers and promulgators, not leaders and law-givers, but they are nonetheless the recipients of the hidden inspirations of God. Yet another kind are Prophets Whose prophethood has been limited to a particular locality.  AB06566

Prophets are in general of two kinds. Some are independent Prophets Who are followed, while others are not independent and are themselves followers. The independent Prophets are each the Author of a divine religion and the Founder of a new Dispensation. At their advent the world is clothed in a new attire, a new religion is established and a new Book revealed. These Prophets acquire the outpouring grace of the divine Reality without an intermediary. The other kind of Prophets are followers and promulgators, for their station is contingent rather than independent. They acquire divine grace from the independent Prophets and seek the light of guidance from the reality of universal prophethood.  AB00347
