"This Cause is mighty difficult, exceedingly difficult. None can bear it save a near angel or a prophet sent."   AB04031

By My life! It hath been revealed in such wise as to stupefy minds and thoughts. It is the Most Great Testimony unto all mankind and the proof of the All-Merciful unto all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH10508

Indeed when you are thunderstruck by this compelling Word, it matters not, for according to the blessed word revealed from the Dawning-Place of the Primal Point - upon Him be the glory of God, the Lord of all beings - even those who stood at Sinai are thunderstruck, let alone those below them  BH08893

The Blessed Perfection has revealed a Tablet called 'Tablet of the Spiritual World.' All who read it are filled with an anxious desire to leave this world and enter the next condition, so wonderful are the glories of the Spiritual Kingdom. In Persia, one man who read this Tablet killed himself. He could not wait for the happiness it promised him. Another, a youth of Isfahan, could not stand the spiritual food contained in this Tablet, and lost his reason. ABU2916

Know that none can comprehend the reality of the Word of God except the Word itself, for the reality of the Word is sanctified above the comprehension of those beneath it, and all other souls exist under the shadow of the Word. No lower thing can comprehend what is above it - just as the stone and tree, no matter how much they progress, cannot comprehend the reality of the animal, and the animal, no matter how much it progresses, cannot comprehend the reality of man. Thus man, no matter how much he progresses, cannot fathom the reality of the Word of God. The utmost degree is that he can comprehend the outpourings and manifestations of the Word of God. AB04805

In the Word He placed the effect of the sword, and in utterance the effect of the water of life. At times He takes, and at times He gives - meaning that the spirit's manifestation and emergence is a divine trust. This is a power specific to the realm of Truth; the might and power of creation neither weakens it nor prevents its influence. In the Word are concealed both the ocean of mercy and the preordained sword. These mysteries are witnessed in the divine verses. Blessed are they who possess true vision! One word gives life while another takes it away. Blessed are they who possess insight! Glory be unto Him! Glory be unto Him! Though no fire is visible in the Word, yet it ignites; though no water is present, yet it quickens and bestows life. Fresh tongues are needed to properly render thanks for these bounties, and penetrating vision is required to behold them.  BH00321