

Our behaviour and conduct must be an example to them.   ABU2098

befriend them with conduct befitting the people of Baha   AB12103

I desire every one of the friends may shine like unto a sun.  ABU2348

the signs of the love of God were evident in your countenance  AB10556

no salvation except in the conduct and behavior of true Baha'is  AB12418

This is the essence of the characteristics of the people of Baha.  AB08881

He whose deeds do not accord with his words is not a true Baha'i.  ABU2799

Our actions reveal what we are, no matter what the tongue speaks.   ABU3601

Let the world profit by your teachings and learn from your examples!  ABU1408

The believers of God must be alive with the sweet Fragrances of God.   ABU3411

A true Baha'i is one who acts in accordance with the blessed teachings.  ABU3745

I want the loved ones of the Blessed Beauty to be bright like this star.   ABU3467

His honor Rustam must, by God's grace, be a champion and hero in the arena.   AB11580

serve their Beloved with utmost sincerity, trustworthiness and good intention   AB01156

The light of faith shone in thy brow and the smile of the Kingdom in thy face.  AB09453

Aid the Cause of God through the hosts of goodly character and refined conduct.   BH08573

These are the attributes of the pure ones and the qualities of the free spirits.  AB09561

If people had insight, the blessed faces of the friends would be proof and evidence  AB06642

Look to the pearl merchant full of enthusiasm, not to the seller of pottery and grass.  AB11651

Such is the attribute of the loved ones, for verily God is independent of all the worlds.  BH09808

This is the attribute of the sincere ones, this is the characteristic of those drawn nigh.  AB03427

Thus in whatever meeting I enter and find Haji Mirza Haydar Ali I obtain joy and fragrance.  ABU2349

Surely the attributes of the people of God will have their effect eventually upon the people  AB11098

Therefore my intention is that he should know that the Baha'is are faithful and appreciative.  AB11908

the loved ones must adopt a manner and conduct that attracts hearts, not causes souls to flee   AB06169

These are real believers! Well assured, self-sacrificing, enraptured with the Blessed Beauty!   ABU1856

Those bring regret, these grant bounty. Those produce pride, these humility and submissiveness.   AB04394

This is the character of the people of the Kingdom. This is the way and conduct of true Baha'is.  AB01933

"All share and participate in servitude at the Threshold and in self-effacement and evanescence."  AB06448

observe how behavior in accordance with the good-pleasure of the King of Kings influences hearts   AB03387

Such should be the way of the divine friends, and such a nature befitting as the highest paradise.  AB07670

Be eloquent and surpassing, be skillful and radiant through the grace of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB09269

"The Blessed Perfection has taught me this. We must prove this through deed and not by mere word."  ABU3402

Blessed are the handmaidens who have held fast to the Sure Handle and clung to the hem of holiness   BH11501

The friends in Iran are infinitely precious, for they are tested believers of old who are enthralled   AB04731

he hath no thoughts of self, is self-effacing in the Cause, possesseth a pure heart and a radiant soul  AB06688

These are the attributes of the Baha'is. Otherwise, what use is there in being a Baha'i in word alone.  ABU2848

The duty of the believers of God is to be the servants to each other and attend to each other's wants.   ABU3545

"Today, the sign and proof of every true Baha'i are deeds and actions that conform to the divine teachings."  AB04312

For you are near to the threshold of that hidden Beloved and are His tested and proven servant at His court   AB06077

Thou harbourest no ill-will or animosity toward anyone. With all thou art pleasant, sincere, loving and kind.  AB09820

Forbearance in the face of anger is among the characteristics of the righteous and the qualities of the noble  AB09696

"So if the believers wish for my happiness, they must adorn themselves with heavenly character and conduct."   ABU2069

so that you may receive a portion of the character and ways of the Blessed Beauty and make the world fragrant   AB04755

"This man is not a Bahai in a normal way, but in a real manner; he is a Bahai in deed and not in words alone."  ABU0727

She was one of the best teachers of the Cause. An eloquent tongue, a severed soul, a detached heart were hers.  AB10287

the true emblem of the Baha'is should be deeds, actions and conduct that conform to the teachings of Baha'u'llah   AB03135

This is the quality of the Baha'is! This is the conduct of the believers! This is the path of the Kingdom of God!  ABU3105

Any soul from whom signs of wickedness and lust become manifest, such a one is not and has never been of the Truth  BH11522

This prisoner is grateful and pleased with the manner and conduct of those divine friends, the Persian loved ones   AB02784

We have adorned the heaven of man with the stars of steadfastness, trustworthiness, truthfulness and faithfulness.   BH07520

praise be to God, the friends of Khuy possess spiritual character and nature, and radiant faces and merciful hearts  AB03353

As for the friends in Kirman, they are full of spirit and joy, and are self-sacrificing in service to the Threshold   AB05708

How fortunate is the one whose name and trace and creation and character are all in servitude to the Sacred Threshold  AB04796

"...in this greatest of all Causes, believing means to have praiseworthy qualities and to perform praiseworthy acts."   ABU3506

In short a Baha'i is a remedy for every ailment, a balm for every wound and a consolation for every despondent heart.   ABU1771

Therefore, one must become adorned with qualities and practice virtues that are clear signs of the luminosity of faith.  AB08907

in order that all the people may witness how the servants of His Highness the Friend are illumined, shining and radiant  AB03583

The loved ones of God must be such that from them the fragrance of musk is diffused, not the foul odor of ungodliness.   ABU1667

Such is the disposition of the friends of God, and such are the behaviour and comportment of the children of His Kingdom  AB03842

The sign of faithfulness to Baha'u'llah is that precious souls arise with sacred breaths to serve at the Holy Threshold.  AB04259

that all may be adorned with the ornament of His favor and become the cause of remembrance among the peoples of the world   BH09972

that Beloved of all horizons deserves not a false and ill-natured admirer but rather a true lover, distracted and yearning  AB12329

Be ye dawning-places of faithfulness amidst the concourse of creation and daysprings of trustworthiness among the servants.  BH06167

This is the conduct and the manner of the people of Baha! You should conform your conduct with the advices of 'Abdu'l-Baha!  AB10789

You must associate with the handmaidens of God in perfect joy and fragrance, chastity and purity, certitude and detachment.  AB07157

follow the way and conduct of the faithful servants of the Beauty of Abha, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones   AB06113

Be a lamp, the light of which may dispel the darkness, and a real standard which may remove the doubts of the veiled people.  AB05387

The heaven of the station of the handmaidens of God hath been and shall ever be illumined by one luminary, and that is chastity  BH09191

There are so many people who let the opportunity slip and of their hands on account of the slowness of their minds and bodies.   ABU2939

We love to behold you as horizons of light unto the inhabitants of all lands and as daysprings of mercy unto all created things.  BH06730

This befits distinguished maidservants, and this is worthy of the character and conduct of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful.   AB06195

The loved ones of Nayriz are intoxicated with the choice wine of faithfulness from an elegant cup of steadfastness and loyalty.   AB02195

The days passed in ecstasy and joy and love and rapture, and the span of life was spent in love of the Beloved of the horizons.   AB06224

"This is the characteristic of the firm ones, this is the token of the assured ones, and this is the sign of the steadfast ones."  AB11822

the divine friends in these severe days will...manifest such strength of heart that all the people of the world will be astonished  AB02925

Such is the way and path of the people of Baha, and such is the character and conduct of the denizens of the most glorious Kingdom.  AB10527

You must in every case show patience and forbearance and, considering the divine counsels, demonstrate tolerance and good conduct.   AB06395

All of you may help each other and be ever ready to sacrifice your lives for each other. This is the quality of the people of Baha.  AB11431

The splendor from the presence of Baha be upon the people of Baha, whom nothing whatsoever among all things hath prevented from God   BH05895

believed in her Lord and detached herself from every wicked transgressor, and from whose heart have wafted the sweet savors of love   BH05551

But the friends must acquire the characteristics of the Daystar of the horizons and promote and teach more through deeds than words.   AB01985

I hope that you will be faithful and loving, become the guide of the friends, and the cause of purity in the hearts of the loved ones.  AB09896

become manifest and apparent in the gathering of the world through the character, morals, manners, conduct and speech of His servants   AB05560

they are "united, attracted, enkindled and mindful" and "in the utmost love and remembrance and devotion and supplication and prayer"   AB11913

Be thou loving, good natured and fragrant in thy fellowship. Be radiant, cheerful and full of sympathy towards the peoples of the earth  AB10391

become manifest signs of the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name through your conduct and deeds and words and character and behavior  AB02392

The friends of God must, God willing, manifest such deeds and character that all may inhale from them the fragrance of the love of God.   BH08166

They are trusting and beseeching, supplicating and clinging... you are servants of the Court and seek no shelter except the Abha Kingdom  AB04101

that the seekers may take thee as a model of guidance and thou mayest be for them a goodly example in the fear of God and righteousness   AB04200

He commits no violence; if he is struck he does not return the blow. He calls nothing bad, following the example of the Lord Baha'u'llah.  ABU1105

These are the manifestations of detachment and the dawning-places of the fear of God. Upon them rest God's peace, His grace and His favor.  BH11717

Blessed is he who hath turned toward it and hath attained unto the hearing of the remembrance of his Lord, the Compassionate, the Generous.   BH00840

the Afnans of this blessed Tree must, God willing, yield such fruits as to become the manifestation of "By their fruits ye shall know them."  AB07869

The insincere man learns from him the lessons of sincerity, the faithless becomes faithful, the ignorant wise, and the cowardly, courageous.  ABU3333

My hope is that every one of the believers may become a brilliant jewel of the mine of guidance and a shining star of the heaven of virtue.   ABU1799

We counsel all to perform pure and holy deeds. Some among the Babis have grown exceedingly indolent. They must hold fast unto the Law of God.  BH02815

Those who are steadfast are like trees that have strong roots and foundations. Storms cannot shake them; rather, they add to their freshness.   ABU3136

"Each one of them is like unto a lamp brilliant with the light of guidance and a conquering host invincible with the power of the love of God."  AB02135

For thee I desire an exalted station, - so that thou may'st become the star of the everlasting horizon and day by day be drawn nearer unto God   AB03301

if noble blood is joined with a goodly character, meaning if the son walks in the steps of the father, then the relationship of sonship is real   AB02338

The followers of the Blessed Perfection are the invincible army of Peace and are showing by their deeds and words that they are the peace-makers.  ABU1639

You are a kindly friend to the friends...like the morning breeze, are light in spirit, and like the gentle air, are the cause of joy and gladness.  AB09225

Let your acts be a guide unto all mankind, that from your behaviour and conduct they may be enabled to recognize the signs and commandments of God.  BHU0058

These attributes will, God willing, be witnessed manifest and evident in all the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, and it is hoped that this is so.   AB05050

strive with utmost endeavor so that you may attract the ancient Parsees through deeds and conduct and speech and goodly character and refined manners.  AB04913

One might say, 'Well, I will endure such-and-such a person so long as he is endurable.' But Baha'is must endure people even when they are unendurable.   ABU3523

They must live and conduct themselves in such a manner so that they may become distinguished above other people in sanctity, prayerfulness and humility.  AB09066

Thank the Lord that thou art born of a father who is pure and a mother who is chaste and that thou hast been raised in the cradle of belief and certitude  AB07426

The best man is that person who cheers and gladdens the broken-hearted ones and the worst man is that soul who causes suffering and pain to one's heart.   ABU3383

They should witness such perfections among the loved ones of God, observe such conduct and behavior, that they are compelled to submission and humility.   ABU2721

They must live and conduct themselves in such manner that in sanctity, prayerfulness and devotion they may become distinguished from the rest of mankind.  AB11299

These souls are indeed worthy of their relation to the Holy Threshold, and these beings are best befitted to the station of servitude to His blessed Court  AB02136

When finally we hasten from this world to the next, we should do so with a candle in our hand, a brightness in our countenance, and a spirit in our heart.   AB04893

We counsel thee and My loved ones to trustworthiness and truthfulness and purity, and to that whereby the station of man is made manifest among the peoples.   BH06929

Therefore praise God that you have been blessed and confirmed with such a bounty - to be related to such a person who is accepted at the threshold of Truth.   AB06973

those radiant faces had received a ray from the effusions of the All-Merciful, and "in their faces thou shalt see the brightness of bliss" was made manifest   AB04509

The more thou showest humility before these brilliant stars and shining orbs, the more will thy power of fatherhood increase and thy paternal authority grow.  AB06050

O Ghadanfar! O Lion! This is the time of the lion and the moment of the fierce beast. Since thou art a lion, thou must make an attack and show forth thy might  AB08803

We counsel you to be trustworthy, religious, chaste and faithful, and to that whereby the Cause of God, the Lord of all that was and shall be, may be exalted.   BH00684

The companions of the Crimson Ark must distinguish themselves among the people of the world in such wise that all may testify to their detachment and holiness.   BH00353

Today the people of Baha are souls who should become renowned throughout all regions for possessing the character, conduct and behavior of the Supreme Concourse  AB10600

Praise be to God, he is adorned with the ornament of love and crowned with the diadem of steadfastness. We bear witness to his recognition, love and precedence.   BH05527

meek and lowly for the sake of God among His beloved, denying self and passion, grasping the robe of piety, so that they may be lamps of guidance in those regions.  AB04597

In a similar manner the believers of God must show great fortitude in the propagation of the principles of the Cause and let their deeds be as examples to others.   ABU2040

Thus those who claim attachment to the Truth must surely manifest signs of sanctity in their deeds and the radiance of joy must be witnessed in their countenances.   BH02038

O people of God! You must manifest yourselves in such wise that no opportunity remains for the barking ones - that is, their hopes may be transformed into despair.   BH00547

you must, with God's help, burst forth entirely into blossom and become manifest and celebrated among the people through the goodly fruits of divine characteristics  AB09149

Regard faith as a tree: its fruits and leaves, its branches and boughs are, and ever have been, truthfulness, trustworthiness, rectitude of conduct, and forbearance.  BH04864

This is the quality of the truthful ones and the servants of the Threshold. Strive that ye may be mentioned in the praiseworthy station and be accepted and beloved.   AB07389

From their radiant faces a garden of nature was manifest... so that other people may witness how the servants of the Beloved are luminous and brilliant and radiant.   AB05378

Verily, I say unto you: none will be saved but the believers, and from the believers only the sincere, and even those are in great danger, especially in such a time.  AB11283

he is near to the Divine Threshold, attracted to the Most Glorious Beauty, a servant at the Sacred Threshold, and one who speaks in glorious praise of the Most Great   AB07369

Today bravery and manliness, courage and valor and wisdom are trustworthiness. Trustworthiness is religiosity. Religiosity is truthfulness. Truthfulness is steadfastness.  AB10877

he is an adorned youth from whom the lights of the love of God shine forth from all his qualities and the rays of firmness in the Cause of God radiate from his countenance  AB08836

Those souls who are of the Kingdom eagerly wish to be of service to the poor, to sympathize with them, to show kindness to the miserable and to make their lives fruitful.   AB07527

they must strive with utmost honesty, purity, truthfulness, chastity and steadfastness in carrying out their assigned duties... This is the way and conduct of the Baha'is   AB01301

"He was set ablaze with the fire of Your love among humanity and called others to Your remembrance with a radiant countenance and a heart drawn to Your Most Exalted Beauty"   AB03902

Let the upright character, the praiseworthy attributes and the avoidance of carnal desires be your adorning. Well is it with him who hearkens, and woe unto him who turns away.  BH00721


Thus you know neither opposition, dislike, nor hatred, for every living creature is dear to you and the good of each is sought. These are perfect human sentiments and virtues.  ABU0665

manifest signs and brilliant, evident tokens in their love of God, knowledge of God, supreme sanctification, service to the loved ones of God, and observance of the law of God   AB07411

wearing the crown of sincerity upon their heads and the robe of steadfastness upon their bodies, in harmony and fellowship with all peoples, and guiding all to the straight path  AB04894

Today the hearts of the Baha'i friends are a divine rose garden, and their expressions and words carry the scent of that true garden, and their pages are like the spring breeze   AB03426

O kind friend! At this moment I thought of you and became very happy, for your character and disposition and the radiance of your countenance became embodied before 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB03761

His honor Aqa Mirza Muhammad-Baqir Khan is truly firm in the Covenant and a helper of the oppressed and a succorer of the helpless. In whatever he can do he shows no shortcoming.  AB03406

They should be kind to all people and prefer the welfare of others to their own...consider his characteristics, his sincerity, truthfulness, willingness to serve, trustworthiness  ABU1276

O people of God! The victorious hosts today are praiseworthy character and deeds. We have enjoined upon Our loved ones goodly conduct and the fear of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH02015

This community holds fast to righteousness and piety and is severed from oppression and corruption. The hope of their hearts has been and is the comfort and freedom of the people.   BH02180

in all conditions and qualities it must tell the story of illumination, so that it may become a bright candle in the gathering of the horizons and a light for the assembly of concord  AB10838

The servants of the Blessed Beauty must be thus - from their countenance a manifest light radiates, and from their conduct and speech the signs of nobility are evident and apparent.   AB05877

"I would suggest to you, that if you shall be similarly considerate in your treatment of each other, it will be greatly conducive to the harmony of your association with each other."  ABU2793

I ask God that the spiritual assembly of Philadelphia may become the gathering-place of the Merciful One, and the believers become the embodiment of the qualities of heavenly angels.   AB04643

God willing, the friends of Truth must appear among the servants with perfect trustworthiness, truthfulness and praiseworthy character. They are as lamps amid the darkness of the age.   BH03329

Be distinguished among the servants from all others, such that thy countenance shineth amidst all faces, and be among those whose faces are illumined by the lights of the Countenance.   BH02104

And the glory be upon thee and upon the handmaidens of God who are steadfast in the Cause, pure from defilement, preserved from uncleanliness, and have attained unto the command of God   BH04428

Today the people of Baha are souls whom tales have not debarred from the holy Kingdom of God. They behold His signs with their own eyes and hearken with their own ears unto His verses.   BH00609

A person whose tree of life produces such fruits is a Baha'i: otherwise he is of the earth earthly, self-occupied and following the dictates of his own desire and is 'man' only by name.  ABU2179

friends might be raised up who would be as firm and steadfast as immovable mountains in their constancy and steadfastness, and like the spirit of life itself in their character and deeds  AB07968

The loved ones of God must conduct themselves with such steadfastness and composure that all beings will be astonished at what constancy and firmness, what dignity and composure this is.  AB03985

These are the souls whose mention was revealed aforetime in the Perspicuous Book - His exalted Word: "honored servants who speak not until He hath spoken, and who do as they are bidden."   BH06011

Their faces are radiant and their hearts are gardens of the flowers of knowledge. Their eyes are open to the Kingdom of mystery and their souls are intimate and harmonious with each other.   AB02427

The people of Baha must be manifestations of the greatest chastity and supreme virtue... The meaning is that purity and sanctity are among the greatest characteristics of the people of Baha.  AB06060

Surely like him you will arise with such conduct and behavior as will be the cause of eternal glory and everlasting life, so that pure soul may become joyous and glad in the luminous realm.   AB06242

As far as thou art able, show kindness unto all people, manifest love, and follow the path of friendship, truthfulness and reconciliation, that thou mayest become the very soul of the friends  AB08963

Thus the Baha'is must live such a perfect life among men, that even those who will not see this Truth or believe in it, would not fail to be impressed by the noble life they live as Baha'is.   ABU0134

When you achieve success in this conduct and character, you will witness His countenance in all degrees, turn toward Him, traverse the path to His lane, and inhale His musk-scented fragrance   AB11896

the light of good shineth forth from the countenances of the friends of God... The faces of the former are the dawning place of the light of guidance... The former is the temple of the spirit   AB06257

For the opposition of the world did not hinder them, nor did the might of rulers weaken them. They appear with complete power. Upon them be the glory of God and the lights of His mighty throne.  BH11704

Man is liable to forget things very quickly, but the animals remember longer. If you have been kind to a dog once in your lifetime it will never forget and will follow you whenever it sees you.  ABU2394

By these things you know the faithful servant of God. How do we know the light? By its rays. So when you see these qualities, you will know that the servant of God has received the regeneration  ABU1225

Each one of you must be even as the morning star, radiant, that souls who have strayed in the darkness of idle fancies and selfish desires may thereby be guided and find the path of deliverance.  BH06491

people may know with what brilliant rays the Sun of Truth has shed its light upon the soul and conscience of the friends, making each one an illumined candle and the ornament of every gathering   AB06140

"I consider him [Tolstoy] a Baha'i, a real Baha'i, because he lived and acted in accord with the good-pleasure of Baha'u'llah, because he divided all his estate between himself and his farmers."  ABU2934

Fear ye God and commit not that which is indecent, for it hath been forbidden unto you by One mighty and all-knowing. Follow ye God's ways and His bounds and follow not every sinful ignorant one   BH05917

"We walk, and the people walk behind Us; but they go far astray from Us. We make mention of God, and all things remember Him too. Happy are those who listen but alas for those who are negligent."  BH10656

Adorn your tongues with truthfulness, and your hands with generosity, and your bodies with dignity, and your souls with courtesy, and your hearts with My love and then with My exalted remembrance   BH11527

O people of Baha! Hearken unto My call. It behooveth you to counsel the servants through your deeds and character. Verily He is with you, seeing and hearing, and He is the Mighty, the All-Seeing.   BH02813

These are the companions of the Crimson Ark. By the life of God! All divine Books and Scriptures bear witness to the greatness of this Cause and to the excellence and nobility of these companions.  BH11643

Thanks be to God that thou art successful in serving at the Sacred Threshold and, with the utmost purity of intention and detachment, art occupied in promoting the divine counsels and exhortations.  AB08966

With every group, even if it be an oppressive party, they must act with the utmost trustworthiness, religiosity and kindness. This is the path of the Baha'is, this is the way of the spiritual ones.   AB05371

Our dear friend . . . hath arrived. He praises the beloved of God and His maid-servants and adorns the ears with the pearls of praiseworthy actions and good qualities of the elect and the faithful.   AB05958

Every soul that hath today drunk from the living waters and turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon must needs walk among the servants in such wise that all will testify to his sanctity and detachment.  BH05928

Be good-natured and cheerful, sweet-scented and attractive, truthful in speech - these are the requirements of kindness. Be as a son to the elderly, a father to the youth, and a brother to your peers.  AB09532

He was a warm person, full of enthusiasm, never cold or indifferent. He went through much trouble for the friends...Steadfast, firm, believing, assured - what else is the fruit of human life but this?  ABU1253

"If a man considers himself humble and lowly in the Cause of God, he becomes glorified in all eyes. On the other hand, the moment he aspires to personal greatness, he falls into disgrace and oblivion."  ABU3459

Ye must shine with such a delicacy, such tenderness, and such a noble magnanimity that ye shall verily become the highest ornaments in this divine garden, the crowning glory of the true meadow of heaven  AB02872

Conduct yourselves in such a way that whoever sees will say with certainty that this person is a Baha'i. The loved ones of God must each sacrifice himself for others, his heart must be filled with love.  ABU0708

If a soul is not severed, if he is not pure and holy, if he is not thoughtful of others, if he is not radiant, if he is not divine, if he is not god-like and celestial, -- no one can say he is a Baha'i.   ABU3277

If there is one soul in Paris practicing the commands of God, he is better than hundreds who never act nor do His Will, but are believers only in Name. One single Pearl is better than a thousand pebbles.  ABU0407

The beloved of God must strive to be servants of the Blessed Beauty that they may be pointed to with fingers of acclaim, and they must not attach importance to worldly affairs, for these shall pass away.  ABU1659

This is the exemplary way with the people of Baha, and I beseech God to make you a brilliant sign of success and prosperity, illumined with the lights of divine confirmation among your peers and companions.  AB10691

The handmaids of the Blessed Beauty must each one be a sign of guidance and a manifestation of the Most Great Bounty. They must arise to follow such a course of conduct and behavior, such manners and customs  AB08822

Some people go to cities like passing travelers, like a corpse being carried past. But others, wherever they arrive, sow seeds and create verdant fields and bring the dead to life. You are among those souls.  ABU1082

"Observe how in this wondrous cycle the hand of divine favor has brought round such a cup and bestowed such teachings that are the eternal life of the human world and the divine gift in this transient world."  AB06605

You are the manifestations of the signs of unity and the dawning-places of the lights of the favors of the Glorious Lord. These manifestations and dawning-places must be in the utmost brilliance and radiance   AB03156

However, in this day it is beloved that the loved ones of God should appear among His servants with spiritual qualities, that from every soul the sweet fragrances of the dwellers of all worlds might be inhaled.  BH07836

Those who commit indecent acts, steal the property of others, and backbite My servants - their deeds shall be rendered vain in this futile life and they are among those who have gone astray and been misguided.   BH08220

In truth, Barzu is pure in heart and captivated by the love of that Kind Friend. You too should follow in his footsteps and seek his qualities so that you may find joy in the divine world and attain to success.  AB08829

so you may meet with loved ones whose faces are radiant, whose eyes are illumined, whose breasts are expanded and whose hearts are revived by the appearance of God's Kingdom and the outpouring of His Divinity.   AB00525

Say: O servants! The triumph of this Cause hath depended, and will continue to depend, upon the appearance of holy souls, upon the showing forth of goodly deeds, and the revelation of words of consummate wisdom.  BH11368

"the man who lives the life according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah is already a Baha'i. On the other hand a man may call himself a Baha'i for fifty years and if he does not live the life he is not a Baha'i."   ABU3033

Faith pertains to the heart and soul, and this is a hidden and concealed matter. However, its proof lies in deeds and conduct. If one's way and behavior demonstrate sincerity, then it is established and confirmed.  AB06360

They have proved beyond doubt that they are true Baha'is, sincere friends, and souls resolute in the religion of God. O would that all the friends were like this, evincing such patience, calm, and imperturbability!  AB04124

As long as the dust of servitude at the Sacred Threshold adorns face and hair, the radiance of beauty emanates brilliantly from human features. Praise be to God, you have attained unto this, as have all that family.  AB08773

It is hoped that, as befitting and proper, you may become the dawning-place of great signs and become renowned throughout all regions for your excellence in business dealings, religious devotion and trustworthiness.  AB09378

Thou, too, must make a mighty effort and show forth supreme courage. Exert thyself and taste of the sweetness of a heavenly draught, for the sweet taste of the love of God will linger on to the end that hath no end.  AB07882

But the rest of us, who were over fifteen in number and yet were obliged to live in one single room, were nevertheless filled with joy and composure; for we were blessed with exile for the sake of the Cause of God.   ABU0777

these souls are in the utmost firmness and steadfastness and are engaged in promoting the divine Faith...all the pillars of this partnership are firm and steadfast and are known for their divine love in that region   AB07000

These are servants who speak not except by His leave, who move not except by His command, whom the affairs of men sadden not, and whom the clamor of those who have disbelieved in the Lord of destiny frighteneth not.   BH01017

Christ addressed His loved ones, saying: "Ye are the salt of the earth; but if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted?" The meaning is that the standard is the conduct and behavior of the friends.  AB02241

Through your efforts, service, goodly conduct, steadfastness and wise policy, you have proven and demonstrated that you are a true friend of 'Abdu'l-Baha and are a partner and sharer in servitude at the Sacred Threshold   AB04761

May you associate day and night with holy fragrances and become intimate companions in the mention of the Friend. Adopt such conduct and behavior that all your movements and stillness may spread the fragrance of holiness  AB03624

We counsel thee and the people of God to perform such deeds as will cause the exaltation of the Cause, to utter such words as will lead to the assurance of souls, and to manifest such character as will guide the servants.   BH06039

Multiple people vouch for the trustworthy character of the Baha'is, with the Russian Consul saying "You do not know these people. They are not highway robbers and they have not been guilty of any treachery to the nation."   ABU0717

O Baha'i! How precious you are, for in name and fame, in the hidden and manifest, you are associated with the Beloved! You are renowned throughout all regions and enamored with the countenance of the Luminary of the horizons   AB06111

they must follow his way so that like flowers and fragrant herbs they may be nurtured by the showers of grace. They must not be hurt by the reproach of enemies but occupy themselves day and night with praising the loved ones   AB03414

Tell them a Baha'i is a person who is free from all prejudices -- racial prejudices, religious prejudices, political prejudices, social prejudices, economic prejudices. A Baha'i is one in whom the human perfections are active.   ABU3501

I hope that this blessed Name may reflect its inner meanings and that thou mayest teach many such qualities as these and cause others also to adhere to trustworthiness, to integrity, to righteousness and the worship of truth.   AB07474

Therefore, train the children in Baha'i schools in divine characteristics and guide them to purity and holiness, so that each one may develop an angelic nature and be adorned with the attributes and character of a true Baha'i.  AB07846

I declare by Baha'u'llah his face was wrapped in a sea of white light, his eyes soft with the warmth of divine love and compassion that it is my fondest hope to see each one of the believers of God shining like unto this star.   ABU2407

Do thou continue to be honest in thy dealings for one month. Thou wilt see in the end that thou art honored and respected by all thy customers, and not considering thy spiritual welfare, thy material prosperity will be secured.   ABU3329

show such truthfulness, trustworthiness, religious devotion and zeal...that God may be well-pleased with you and 'Abdu'l-Baha delighted with you...employ whatever befits a Baha'i and is worthy of a servant of the Sacred Threshold  AB12363

Associate with the people of the world according to the way and conduct and forbearance and character of the Ancient Beauty, that thou mayest witness the gathering and resurrection and drink from cups whose mixture is of camphor.  AB08207

When I speak of their character and relatives, I find my nostrils perfumed, and when I become occupied with their remembrance and mention, I find the expansiveness of a rose garden and see the vastness of flower beds and meadows.  AB04487

Be horizons of guidance amidst all creation and lights of bounty unto all who are in the heavens and on earth, that people may perceive from you the fragrance of the Intended One and behold in your faces the radiance of paradise.   BH07492

How blessed art thou, being such a counselor who takes counsel and a speaker who acts, commanding others to goodness but beginning with their own selves. This indeed is the quality of the righteous and the mark of the chosen ones.  AB12066

It is hoped that each one of the friends of God will arise to that which is befitting and seemly in this day, and be raised up with such character, conduct and utterance as shall redound to the sacred glory of the loved ones of God  AB12709

Strive then to the best of thine ability to let these children know that a Baha'i is one who embodieth all the perfections, that he must shine out like a lighted taper  --  not be darkness upon darkness and yet bear the name "Baha'i".  AB04470

Should they find pure and blessed soil, they impart the Word unto all peoples with spirit and joy; if not, they desist. Contention, strife, warfare and the shedding of blood have never been and are not the way of the people of truth.  BH08213

a handmaiden of the Blessed Beauty must, in all matters, skills, and in the madness of love, be distinguished from others. Assuredly thou wilt become thus, so that thy passion, enthusiasm and rapture may spread throughout all regions.  AB09447

One exclaimed "Is there any who beholds me?", another proclaimed "No harm - we are returning to our Lord!" One raised the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!", another said "Praise be to Thee for granting me the supreme martyrdom!"   AB03952

O Surush! Follow the path of the righteous ones, that thou mayest be nurtured beneath the shade of God. Embrace the One Beloved, that thou mayest attain endless life. Become angelic and be steeped in the honey of love and faithfulness.  AB09399

You too must manifest, through your manner, words and deeds, such characteristics that that pure spirit in the Abha Kingdom will open his tongue in praise, become gladdened by your firmness and steadfastness, and find joy and delight.   AB05216

Praise be to God that through the grace and bounty of the Most Glorious Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, the faithful loved ones are goodly words, speaking goodly words, with goodly words manifest in their speech and deeds.  AB02078

Be ye always the bearers of good tidings and spread such news quickly.... On the other hand, if ye have a bad message or news for a certain person, show ye no haste in conveying it, and trouble not the heart of the concerned individual.  ABU2761

Today the hosts of Truth and His helpers have been and are goodly deeds and pure, holy, pleasing character. It is not and was never permissible to oppose anyone. Hold fast unto righteousness and cleave unto that which God hath ordained.   BH00317

His honor Furughi has written a letter and has highly praised the worship and devotion of those loving friends, saying that these pure souls are radiant lamps and heavenly stars, signs of guidance and standards of the Concourse on High.   AB04270

"These people are distinguished in all qualities; they have pure intentions; they are truthful to all humanity; they are trustworthy; they exercise kindness towards all mankind; and with heart and soul and life they are engaged in service"  ABU0803

These blessed souls are the friends of the Beloved of the horizons and are self-sacrificing in the path of that Kind Friend. Therefore they are deserving of every bounty and are manifestations of love, steadfastness, firmness and faithfulness.  AB12189

I am exceedingly pleased with thee. Verily, verily, thou art a Baha'i, thou art godly and heavenly. Thou art self-sacrificing in service to the Kingdom. Not for a moment dost thou neglect thy duties. Thy heart overfloweth with the love of God.  AB10990

Man is the only creature who can receive reward, because he has the power of choice--whether he will show forth love or withhold it. He has the power to choose immortal life or to reject it, while the animals have no qualities that are immortal.  ABU1895

they remained firm in Thy manifest religion, drank from the spring of certitude, partook of the truth of certitude, and were not deterred by the blame of the blameworthy among the oppressors, nor did they fear the might of any transgressing sinner.   AB12025

Strive to be quickened with the characteristics and attributes of the one true God. Be kind and gentle with all the people of the world and serve and assist everyone with the utmost love. This is the essence of the characteristics of the people of Baha.  AB08881

Give thanks unto God that thou wert born and brought into being in this new age and wondrous century, that thou didst hearken unto the call of the Promised One, turn thy face toward the Countenance of the Beloved, and attain unto a praiseworthy station.  AB10261

"Their faces radiated with the light of bounties and their tongues delighted in the mention of the Lord of great bestowals. They spoke with praise; were illumined with the light of guidance and became ignited with the blazing fire of the Tree of Sinai."   AB03069

Thou art a sign of bowing down and prostration, at rest beneath an outstretched shade, gathered beneath the raised standard. Thou art in mind and manifest from the horizon of the love of God, triumphant over self and desire, patient in the face of trials.   AB11754

O people of certitude! Soar in the atmosphere of the love of the All-Merciful. Strive that ye may be distinguished from others, in such wise that all creation may witness in you the lights of the Kingdom and the signs of the denizens of the Realm of Might.   BH05339

the friends of God must surge like the ocean and roar like the clouds, sing like nightingales in the gardens of sanctity with the melody of the Beloved, and shine like the stars of guidance from the dawning-place of divine attributes and most beautiful names.  AB02717

Therefore praise God that you shone brightly in the fire of tribulations, turned your gaze away from this world, and learned the ways of sacrifice in the path of the Beloved. You showed no weakness, committed no failure, and feared not those in their graves.   AB03178

Today, that which is befitting and worthy for those who have turned to God is to adorn themselves with the ornament of divine commandments and to appear among the servants with goodly and pleasing character. This is the cause of the exaltation of God's Cause.   BH03375

If you speak with a Persian, talk with him without ceremony, ask where he lives and try to help him. Likewise speak to all strangers who seem lonely and give them your willing service. Be loving to them, Turks, Arabs, Indians, Chinese, Americans, Japanese -- all.  ABU0653

The hosts of God this day are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character traits, and the commander of these hosts is the fear of God. Blessed is the handmaiden who hath held fast to the cord of godliness and acted according to what she was bidden in the Book of God  BH03155

One must be pure and free from all carnal desires. All feelings must be heavenly. One must become a mercy from the Lord to humanity and a bright candle in this dark world. This is true Baha'i - otherwise it is a name without substance and a word without meaning.   AB06245

We counsel thee to love thy brother and preserve thy station through the Name of God, the Most Glorious. Glory be upon him and upon thee and upon those women from whom the Supreme Concourse perceived the fragrance of steadfastness in this Most Great Announcement.   BH08492

The servant of the loved ones is the servant of the Beauty of Abha. He who loves Him serves His loved ones. This servant's utmost desire is to become a true and faithful servant in service to the friends of the Beauty of Abha, and a devoted and sincere attendant.   AB08688

The disciples of Christ lived the life of Christ; the trees of their lives yielded good fruit; upon them was "great power" and "great grace" encircled them; they did not receive any stipends but sold everything they had and went out to preach the Gospel of the Lord.  ABU0289

The people of Baha who have drunk the pure wine of reality must associate with all the world with a perfect spirit of joy and fragrance and remind them of that which is for the benefit of all. This is the commandment of the wronged one to his saints and sincere ones.  BH10511

the Baha'is are steadfast and truthful, pure and radiant, chaste and refined, industrious and virtuous, free and principled, seeking the benefit of all and not their own advantage, desiring the well-being and prosperity of the nation rather than their personal success  AB07009

Through all their deeds and actions, the believers of God must be distinguished from the rest of the world. One of these deeds is Love. The people must be astonished when they observe how the friends are loving toward each other, how they are attracted to one another.   ABU1717

Abandon the concerns of mankind and be naturalized with the attributes of the angels of the Supreme Concourse, because these angels humble themselves to the lowest thing of the things despite their honor, glory, the loftiness of station and the greatness of their might.  AB07816

Soon from amongst these women many will appear as the men of the field, who will shine forth resplendent in the world of humanity with an eloquent tongue, a detached heart, a perfect utterance, a radiant proof and they will show forth supreme chastity and great decency.  AB01957

That one person has formed such a family is the pure grace of the living God and result of the favour the Self-Subsisting. This is the bounty of God; this is the mercy of the Lord! May ye pass your days in spiritual happiness, in divine joy and with a clear conscience.   AB04128

Distinguish yourselves one and all among mankind by the radiance of your countenance, the sincerity of your speech, the purity of your heart, the steadfastness of your purpose, the trustworthiness of your conduct, the sanctity of your soul, the blamelessness of your life.  BH04605

When the Daystar of Truth shone forth above the horizon of sanctity, an attractive force was exerted. The supreme Magnet of the pole of contingent existence appeared and was made manifest. The noble metals were attracted, while stones and clods of earth remained deprived.  AB05957

Through them God's commandments were spread among His servants and His laws among His creation, and through them the Faith appeared, though the polytheists were averse. O what servants were they, whom neither the circumstances of tyrants nor the might of pharaohs deterred!   BH01462

Indeed, thou hast shown a white hand in service to that one near to the Court of the All-Glorious, and thou hast become infinitely precious in the Court of the Divine Unity. It behooveth the handmaidens of the Merciful to be the essence of fidelity and the mirror of purity.  AB08134

Today, the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty are with the soul who utterly forgets himself, constantly investigates his own faults and defects, loosens his tongue in mentioning the good qualities and sublime susceptibilities of others, does not see or hear or speak evil.   ABU0674

The servant beareth witness that he is among the triumphant ones... His letter was received and from it wafted the fragrance of love, affection, sincerity and devotion. In truth, his entire letter appeared to this evanescent one as a single word: "Verily I am for God alone."   BH01003

Tell him, no one in this world can claim any relationship to Me except those who, in all their deeds and in their conduct, follow My example, in such wise that all the peoples of the earth would be powerless to prevent them from doing and saying that which is meet and seemly.  BHU0021

If nay one comes to you and endeavors to belittle the station of another in your presence or speaks in any terms against another, you must not listen; nay, rather, excuse yourself by saying that you are a Bahai and that you cannot hear anything but the praise of your brother.   ABU3227

The eye of my heart is illumined by remembrance of the face and character of the friends, and the mind of my soul is perfumed, for the realities of the friends are gardens of fragrant herbs and anemones, and the hearts of the loved ones are meadows and rose gardens of wonders.   AB07012

This is why the loved ones of God make no claims with their tongues. They are humble and submissive and obedient and averse to name and fame, and in action they are self-sacrificing and give their lives for humankind and for respect of homeland and protection of the oppressed.   ABU0548

"Blessed art thou and blessed are they who have cast away what they possessed, holding fast unto that which is with God, the Lord of all worlds...Blessed are those souls who have attained unto this most great station and have regarded all else save God as non-existent and null."  BH05598

Today it befits the spiritual friends that each one become a perfect sign of the manifestation of the Most Great Name (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones) among the nations. That is, they should be adorned with all perfections that are the ornament of human reality   AB05546

seek a way and path, strive for a character and disposition, and choose manners and conduct that are as sweet as honey and sugar, so that the secluded women of Iran may follow your example and attain such chastity, virtue, purity, sanctity, freedom, nobility, knowledge and wisdom  AB09464

My boundless hope from the Abha Kingdom is that through goodly conduct and sincerity toward rulers and kings, and through kindness and well-wishing to all peoples of the earth, both sovereign and subject, that land may become a supreme paradise and that region a garden of delight.   AB02103

The believers are those who are all assured in God. The believers are those who all believe in God and then in Muhammad, the Messenger of God. All believe in those who are witnesses from God, and the believers are those who all believe in those who are the gates of guidance from God  BB00004

In character, manner and conditions may they become the essence of sanctification, and in aspects of the love of God become a kindling flame. In remembrance and utterance may they become an endless ocean, and in the essence of expression may they open an eloquent and fluent tongue.   AB06586

Now you must conduct yourselves with utmost sanctity and purity, and follow the counsels and exhortations of the Blessed Beauty in your manner and behavior, so that enemies may become friends, the fearful may find peace, the sleeping may awaken, and the heedless may become mindful.   AB01435

"Where are the people of fidelity whose faces reflect the radiance of God, the Lord of Names? These are servants by whom the horizon of certitude hath shone forth. The All-Merciful sendeth blessings upon them at all times. They are among the bearers of the Throne amidst all worlds."   BH03127

A servant of the Blessed Beauty - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones - is one who breathes the breath of the All-Merciful, serves the world of humanity, becomes the cause of the spread of lights, and through deeds, behavior and words gives news of the Kingdom of Mysteries.   AB03922

The most blessed souls are those who have freed themselves from the material world and have turned their faces towards God. Such souls though apparently earthy yet in reality they are heavenly; their body is of the phenomenal world and yet their spirit (emanated) from the world of God.  AB06377

But the gems of this crown and the jewels of this diadem must be radiant and effulgent so they may shine throughout centuries and ages. The brilliance and radiance of these precious jewels consist in sincerity, detachment, enkindlement, attraction, spirituality and divine inspirations.   AB05713

O Abu-Talib! The Wronged One remembereth thee in His station and counseleth thee with such virtues that all who possess the sense of smell shall find from them the fragrance of My morals, and with such deeds that all who possess sight shall behold from them My shining and luminous light.   BH00792

It is not permissible for a lover to show forth claims of existence and self in the presence of the Beloved. If he should take one step beyond this path, he would no longer be counted among the lovers. Never doth true love accept a living soul, nor doth the hawk take a dead mouse as prey.  BH00956

They must arise with such conduct, behavior, manners and customs, and open their tongues with such proofs of the appearance of the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, that the people of the earth will be amazed. This is what distinguishes the cherished handmaiden of the Blessed Beauty from others.  AB08822

Therefore, as thou art a lion of these meadows and a servant at this Threshold, strive thou to be the cause of life and not of death, to be the means of salvation and not of destruction, to be a luminous lamp and not a world-consuming fire, to become a brilliant star and not a dominant demon.  AB09155

Blessed art thou for having immersed thyself in the ocean of My knowledge, and attained unto the lights of My love, and taken refuge in the stronghold of My protection, and held fast to the cord of My generosity, and clung to the hem of My favors which have encompassed the heavens and the earth.   BH07886

The friends of God must shine and glow like bright candles in the assemblage of the world, and like the morning star must bestow light. They must become renowned throughout the horizons for all praiseworthy human virtues and qualities, and become the brilliant full moon of the people of concord.   AB03627

Truly you are of the noble lineage of His Holiness Khalil and progeny of that sacred and cherished being, for you hastened to the shade of the tent of martyrdom, and entered the temple of the Lord in the Furthest Mosque, and in the Holy of Holies became occupied with chanting the verses of unity   AB07443

Each member must try to be kind to everyone and to show forth great affection towards every living soul. Always in every word and action to be faithful and sincere, so that each member may be known to the world as embodying the qualities of Sincerity, Faith, Kindness, Love, Generosity and Bravery.   ABU2404

"because He guided you to His Eternal Kingdom, manifested to you His evident light, descended upon you a heavenly table through His great favor, planted you in His glorious vineyard and caused you to become manifestations of guidance among the people and dawning-points of wisdom among the creatures."  AB04939

May you ever be confirmed and assisted. May you ever be illumined; may you ever be the means of the guidance of the people; may you ever breathe the breath of life in the hearts; may you be the signs of mercy to all mankind; may you be the shining lamps of severance and detachment in this dark world   ABU1209

Truly I say each one of the believers of God has been the embodiment of severance, the incarnation of devotion, an ignited candle, he visualized in the world of humanity the Teachings of God, and he was an example and a lesson to mankind of how to be pure, sanctified, attracted, enkindled and honest.   ABU2318

Today all must turn in unity and accord, and should any unacceptable matter arise, they must hasten with utmost speed to resolve it. They must arise for God's sake and occupy themselves with service for His sake. Today any word that causeth discord is not and hath never been acceptable in God's sight.   BH00438

from the beginning they were people of longing and enthusiasm, and afterwards became attracted to the lights of the Forgiving Lord. They rent asunder the veil of idle fancies, ran in the path of truth, reached the desired goal, tasted the honey of the love of God, and drank the wine of mystic knowledge   AB02435

Though we are but worthless drops, yet were we to make the slightest movement, we would come to resemble the motion of the Most Great Ocean and its waves and its raging tempests. A lamp, should it shine forth with all its might, will become like unto a sun and a sign of Him who is the light of the world.  AB05578

Let them distinguish themselves through the illumination of their hearts, their unsullied spirituality, and their continual remembrance of His Name and their genuine virtue. Let them shine among the women of the world as a result of their goodly disposition, their eloquent speech, and pleasant behaviour.   AB04641

That they should, in all places, be enkindled and luminous with the light of sanctity and piety, and be signs of spiritual perfections and temples of purity, sanctity and holiness amongst the peoples of the world -- for this is the sign of the detached and the quality of those that have drawn nigh unto God.  AB01734

You should not think that you are like other people. They are dead and you are living, they are blind and you are given the power of insight. They are deaf, and you are given the power of hearing, they are mute and you are given the power of speech, and the signs of these bounties will appear in the future.   ABU0750

In the early days after our arrival in Acca, we acted in such a manner and all the Persians lived such a life of righteousness that after two years and a half all the inhabitants began to trust them in all their business transactions... Such was the great confidence the people had in the Baha'is in those days   ABU1404

The believers of Ishkabad are very sincere. They are steadfast. They are attentive, mindful, diligent, striving. If they know of a thing to be of service to the Cause and it necessitated their being drowned, they would cast themselves in the sea. They have no consideration for themselves. Most of them are thus.  ABU0669

They show no concern for cruelty and before strangers they play with their own blood, while showing kindness to friend and stranger alike. They are intoxicated with remembrance of the Friend and hold the cup of joy while making mention of the Truth. They explain realities and meanings and unveil divine mysteries.  AB01637

She was a word of Thy love and a sign of Thy remembrance. She believed in Thee and Thy verses, was drawn to Thy beauty, spoke Thy praise, acknowledged Thy oneness, and occupied herself with Thy writings night and day. She communed with Thee evening and morning and sought refuge in Thy forgiveness at dawn and dusk   AB04617

Show such steadfastness in firmness in the Covenant and constancy in the Testament that you become the wonder of men and the envy of heroes. With the light of the Covenant, shine like a candle in the gathering of the handmaidens of God so that you may become a night-illumining star and a world-consuming fire of love.  AB07205

To be so faithful and sincere in all your actions that every member may be known as embodying the qualities of honesty, love, faith, kindness, generosity, and courage. To be detached from all that is not God, attracted by the Heavenly Breath -- a divine soul; so that the world may know that a Baha'i is a perfect being.  ABU0350

This Cause is in need of loyal servants, souls who would sacrifice every thing for the sake of the Beloved; souls who would throw to the winds all their personal ambitions. Then they will shine like glorious suns and become the cause of the illumination of others. They will shine themselves and in turn enlighten others.   ABU1218

Indeed, it is this charity that educates the world of humanity; it is this charity that turns nature green and beautiful. I wish that you, the people of Baha, may attain this great blessing, so that from the bounteous outpourings of each one of you this world of nature may be transformed into the most glorious paradise.   ABU1168

A stature that does not bend in service to the friends is like a propped-up piece of wood, and a form that does not bow under the burden of companions' hardships is like the hollow trunk of a fallen palm. Therefore, blessed art thou, for thou bearest the services of the friends and art a devoted servant of the companions.  AB08688

Ah, me! Each one must be a sign of love, a sea of love, a center of love, a sun of love, a star of love, a haven of love, a pearl of love, a palace of love, a mountain of love, a world of love, a universe of love. Hast thou love? Then thy power is irresistible. Hast thou sympathy? Then all the stars will sing thy praise!   ABU2326

Some souls are like unto the glass-chimneys. They are pure and transparent but an outside light must come in and illumine them; still there are others who are illumined but they do not confer 'illumination', again there are some people who are illumined themselves and they also illumine others. These are the blessed souls.   ABU2834

Now amidst all the peoples of the world must the beloved arise, with a heart even as the day-star, a strong inward urge, a shining brow, a musk-scented breath, a tongue speaking ever of God, an exposition crystal-clear, a high resolve, a power born of heaven, a spiritual character, a confirmation nothing short of the divine.  AB00073

verily the Bahais are possessed of the virtues of Baha'o'llah; they are illumined with the light of the sun of reality; verily they are the mirrors of Baha'o'llah and if people desire to know the virtues and attributes of Baha'o'llah they should look at the Bahais, for in them are personified his attributes, aims and achievements  ABU0820

We beseech the confirmations of that luminous Beauty that He may assist you to achieve such deeds, such conduct and behavior that the reality of this servitude may become manifest in your countenance with its brilliant lights, so that all who dwell on earth may cry out: "This is not a mortal! This is none other than a noble angel!"   AB07271

The people of God have not at all any dependence in this world; they neither get displeased with the bitterness of the cup, nor are they happy with its sweetness. The people of God are like the birds, who satisfy themselves with a few crumbs, and sit the whole time on the branches of the trees and sing the praises of God.  ABU2187

We counsel them as We counseled them before, to show forth the Greater Steadfastness, and to be characterized by trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness and fidelity. By the life of God! Goodly deeds and praiseworthy attributes have been and are the hosts of God, and the conquest of the citadels of hearts depends upon these hosts.  BH00600

O people of Baha! Be as the cloud that from you may be showered that which will refresh and animate the earth.... Give ear to the voice of the Ancient Beauty calling you aloud from this most great Prison; Forsake oppression and cruelty, cling to the fear of God. Purge yourselves from satanic deeds, be adorned with the virtues of God.  BH02503

The divine friends must offer their lives in gratitude for this heavenly victory and associate with people with spiritual qualities, divine conduct and behavior, detachment and attraction, sanctity and holiness, so that each may become a luminous candle in the spiritual gathering and raise the eternal banner in this transient world.   AB04847

It behoves each one of you to manifest the attributes of God, and to exemplify by your deeds and words the signs of His righteousness, His power and glory. The very members of your body must bear witness to the loftiness of your purpose, the integrity of your life, the reality of your faith, and the exalted character of your devotion.  BBU0001

Know thou the value of this designation and, in accordance with it, gallop in this field. For verily, a handmaiden of the Blessed Beauty must, in all matters, skills, and in the madness of love, be distinguished from others. Assuredly thou wilt become thus, so that thy enthusiasm, joy and rapture may be diffused throughout all regions.  AB09447

A Baha'i must be a symposium of all the highest and noblest aspirations of divine civilization. He must be godlike and celestial. He must ever think of the improvement of the defects of his nature; he must live a pure life and inspire others to do the same. His morning must be better than his evening and his evening better his morning.  ABU0389

Let them manifest praiseworthy deeds and commendable character, so that people may deduce their Source from their conduct and behavior. The actions of some have become the cause of perplexity and hesitation for most of the servants, and furthermore, whatever the loved ones of God practice today, all is attributed to the Seat of the Cause.  BH06572

Despite this, the friends of God are kind to all groups and are truthful and well-wishers, desiring comfort and tranquility in this world and eternal glory in the next world for all. They do not attack or object to anyone. If they utter a word of truth and the hearer does not accept it, they leave it to God - they do not object or argue.   AB01181

Praise be to God, it has been proven and established among all peoples and nations that the people of Baha are people of peace and reconciliation, free from war and weapons, well-wishers of the world and lovers of all humanity, sacrificing their lives for the ease and comfort of all people and spending heart and soul in the path of truth.  AB00697

These are they who strive in God's religion, these are the sincere ones, these are they who make peace among men and show mercy to the weak among them, and they desire not for anyone save what they would desire for themselves. And when they hear a new mention from among the people, like My mention before, they follow the truth and verify it.  BB00004

Today the people of Baha must attract through righteous deeds and guide to the highest horizon. We have previously said: "My affliction is not My imprisonment, nor that which hath come upon Me from Mine enemies, but rather the deeds of My loved ones who associate themselves with Me yet commit that which causeth My heart and My pen to lament."  BH01056

But Baha'is must not be thus; they must rise above this condition. Actions must be more to them than words. By their actions they must be merciful and not merely by their words. They must on all occasions confirm by their actions what they proclaim in words. Their deeds must prove their fidelity, and their actions must show forth Divine light.  ABU0660

The fragrance of the love of God wafts from the gardens of their hearts to all regions, and the lights of recognition shine forth from their faces through the seven layers of existence. They are the manifestations of steadfastness and the dawning-places of bounty, the stars in the heaven of guidance and the flowers in the rose-garden of favor.   AB05273

For example if he takes one step forward or one step backward, he must first think whether this will be according to the good-pleasure of Baha'u'llah or whether such a step will be considered as a service or not. If he sees that his forward step will not contribute something to the promotion of the Cause, it will be better for him to stand still.   ABU1405

Thus shall all know that the Baha'is are the embodiments of probity, and the very essence of spotless virtue. If they accept office, their motive is to render service to the whole of humanity, not to seek their own self-interest; and their object is to vindicate the cause of truth, not to give themselves over to self-indulgence and base ingratitude.   AB04324

Among the divine teachings are trustworthiness, detachment and sanctity. So if you should see a man coveting property and evincing greed toward the wealth of others, know that he is not of the people of Baha. The people of Baha are they who, should they happen to come upon a valley of gold and silver, would pass by it like lightning in utter disregard.   ABU2825

We have said and continue to say that the hosts which today assist the Truth have ever been and shall ever be goodly character and deeds that are well-pleasing. The comfort, glory and wealth of the people of God have been and shall be under the shadow of the banner of these hosts, and the commander, leader and sovereign of these hosts is the fear of God.   BH01473

The intimate companion of the divine retreat and trustee of the treasuries of celestial mysteries is one who has attained supreme success, who is the center of divine inspirations and the gathering place of human virtues and perfections. Such a person is divinely supported and abundantly blessed, the embodiment of justice and the personification of wisdom.  AB09683

Praise be to God that souls are gathered today beneath the shadow of the Covenant who are as magnets attracting the aid and grace of the Forgiving Lord, and are centers of abundant protection and preservation. The signs of divine bestowal are evident upon their radiant foreheads, and from the light of certitude their countenance is as the supreme paradise.  AB00250

Live in such a way that when people observe your manners, morals and conduct they may exclaim, 'These are not men and women, but angels of the Lord.' Be ye kind to all mankind. Let mercy be the motive power in your dealings with people. Do not look at their shortcomings. Win the hearts through love and charity; set them aglow with the fire of the love of God.   ABU0935

In truth he was zealous and patient and chaste and thankful. Although Jinab-i-Haji was in the prime of youth in the utmost joy and pleasure, yet in the age of weakness he was in extreme need and destitution. Despite this he endured imprisonment and bore harm and humiliation, and with utmost thankfulness and servitude to the One God, completed the days of life.   AB03354

The believers must be firmly founded in the principles of morality and honesty. First--Truthfulness; no one should ever tell a lie! Second--Honesty in all their transactions. Third--Forbearance is necessary. Fourth--They must observe the utmost kindness, so that all may consider themselves servants of each other, and be truthful and honest to all mankind. Fifth--They must not disappoint anyone, but constantly endeavor to become more spiritual.  ABU2077

He would tell of a man who appeared among the townspeople and announced that he had just returned from a garden of roses. There was no smell of roses about him, however, and the people were not convinced. Then another man came to them, with a rose in his hand, and its fragrance all about him, and the people needed no words to tell them he had been in the garden.  ABU1910

and all peoples may testify that the Baha'is are the lamps of the horizons and know the Baha'is by their attributes not their names, by their character not their bodies - meaning when they find someone whose words are signs of unity, whose conduct is the essence of detachment, and whose deeds are the reality of sanctification, they will cry out "This is a Baha'i!"   AB00531

'Abdu'l-Baha's joy lies in that group of friends who are in that farm rising up with such conduct, behavior and speech that distinguish and set apart that farm from all other villages, making it clear and evident that this zeal, this trustworthiness, this religiosity, this enthusiasm, this order, these morals, this love and this fellowship are unique to the Baha'is.  AB01352

They are occupied with themselves and familiar with treading the path of divine good-pleasure. They reform morals and encourage praiseworthy human qualities, engaging in purification of hearts and refinement of souls, for they seek influence and penetration in the world of heart and spirit, and are detached from the contingent world and the affairs of self and passion.   AB00384

The sign of the Bahai is to be sincere. He is trustful, detached from the world, attracted to the Holy Spirit, is contented, is kind to all the people, and in the service of the Cause is a devoted one. He is well assured, steadfast, and endures every calamity and difficulty. In the world of humanity such a man is in fact a Bahai. Otherwise he bears the name -- nothing more.  ABU0714

Notwithstanding his early training he forebore the cheerless discomfort of exile with happy resignation and joyful submission and served the friends with a sunny face. From Bagdad to Samson he walked on foot in front of the palanquin of Baha'u'llah which was carried on the back of mules. Now and then we urged him to ride at least for a few miles but never did he accept it.  ABU0959

He is a servant of the Cause and very efficient. He is favored at the Threshold of the Most Glorious King. His heart and soul are vivified through the Breaths of the Merciful. His eyes are turned toward the horizon of His Highness, the Unconstrained. His tongue is fluent with divine proofs and evidences and his nostril is perfumed with the sweet Fragrance of the Clement One.  AB10292

Where are they who were not deterred by the tales of the world nor the vain imaginings of the nations, who were not frightened by the might of kings nor the clamor of subjects? And where are they whom the croaking [of the ravens] did not sadden and who remained faithful to the Covenant? Where are they who appear like firm mountains in the Cause of God, the Revealer of verses?   BH01005

So tell the friends of God not to be sorrowful and grieved by impacts and difficulties, but rather to be joyous and grateful, and at all times to associate with each other in perfect fellowship and love. Likewise they should show utmost kindness to all other peoples. They should never look at others' shortcomings, but rather turn to the forgiving Lord and treat everyone accordingly.  AB01677

In order to be accounted as a Baha'i, he must live in accord with the Teachings of Baha'u'llah; he must become a center of Merciful emotions; the rays of the sun of perfections must emanate from him; he must be kind to all the inhabitants of the earth; he must strive to become a cause of general welfare; he must consider his enemies as his friends; he must return justice for injustice.   ABU0956

He had glad tidings that the friends are companions of the Divine Spirit and are engaged in spiritual conduct with heavenly fervor. Their character and condition are celestial. They constantly yearn for divine bounties and long for the outpouring of the rain of the All-Merciful. In deeds they are like heavenly angels and in speech they are like melodious nightingales in the rose garden.   AB03625

those souls who have had and have no will or desire of their own, whose only purpose has been the good-pleasure of the Friend, and whose heart's beloved is that which proceeds from Him. Tribulations have not prevented them from the Most Great Source, nor have ordeals veiled them from beholding the lights of Beauty. In all conditions they gaze upon the Friend and are detached from all else.   BH04198

The teachings of the Blessed Beauty have made the divine friends distinct from all who are on earth. It is through the blessings of the counsels and teachings of the Blessed Beauty that they associate with all people with utmost love and kindness, they harbor no ill will toward anyone. They do not interfere in matters of corruption, they are well-wishers of all. They are the same with everyone.   ABU2569

It behooveth each one of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, to rise, in this day, with the utmost power of faith and certitude, and to be invested, amongst the women of the earth, with such conduct, such manners, such character and so blissful a rapture that the warmth of their souls may kindle a fire in the goodly trees and burn away the foundations of self-conceit and the roots of godlessness.   AB05046

The handmaidens of God and the bondsmaids in His divine Court should reveal such attributes and attitudes amongst the women of the world as would cause them to stand out and achieve renown in the circles of women. That is, they should associate with them with supreme chastity and steadfast decency, with unshakeable faith, articulate speech, an eloquent tongue, irrefutable testimony and high resolve.  AB09571

they tread the path of truth and seek love and friendship with all, are detached from self and intoxicated with the cup of the Lord's love, are truthful and steadfast, radiant and brilliant, eloquent and skilled, helpers of every weak one and shelter to every seeker of refuge, haven for the poor and sanctuary for the fearful, remedy for every suffering one and balm for the wounds of every needy soul  AB01573

Indeed, it is as you had written that today the good conduct, sanctity and detachment of the friends are the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God, and God forbid that misconduct should cause the destruction of the edifice of the Lord. Therefore, one must always give effective counsels so that the believing souls may succeed in deeds, words and conduct that are today the light of the world of humanity.   AB00313

They associate with the people with divine characteristics - for they regard strangers as friends and consider foreigners as familiar ones. They counter evil with good and overlook the intensity of the transgressors' rebellion. They are zealous yet patient, forbearing yet grateful. They intercede for the transgressors and show mercy to the oppressors, let alone to the faithful and the innocent among humankind   AB03968

The disinterested actions and freehearted deeds of a person proclaim with the sound of a trumpet his loyalty and sincerity in the Cause. He is in no need of self-justification. He lives above and beyond the criticism of petty and dwarfed assailers of his integrity and purity of motives. Their censure does not touch him. The innate nobility of his soul is not tarnished, the glories of his work are not beclouded.   ABU1083

Then it became evident to the governments and nations of the world that the Bahais are the essence of sanctity, lovers of peace and of safety, kind to all sects, faithful, truthful, harmless, patient, loyal and fruitful. Should poison be given to them (the Bahais) they will return honey. Should they be wounded, they will give in return a healing salve. If they hear curses and execrations, they send their prayers.  ABU0238

The friends must deal with all upon earth without exception with truthfulness, trustworthiness, generosity, religiosity, love, harmony, uprightness, friendship, and pleasant words and deeds. They must never prefer themselves over anyone else and must be truly kind to all humanity. The emanations of divine mercy must be manifest and evident in all their conditions and movements. This is the meaning of being a Baha'i.  AB01429

O divine friends and handmaids of the All-Merciful! Jinab-i-Amin offers the utmost praise, commendation and description, that praise be to God, in all regions, cities and villages the friends are manifestations of divine favors and dawning-places of justice and fairness. They are hearing and obeying, they are upright and steadfast, occupied with the recitation of verses and accustomed to the promotion of evidences.   AB00055

The friends of God must be educated in such wise that, just as the vegetable transcendeth the mineral, the animal surpasseth the vegetable, and man excelleth the animal in the perfections of existence, so too must the friends of God be distinguished from all other peoples and tribes in divine virtues and spiritual perfections. Until this is achieved, the resplendent light will not shine forth from their countenance.  AB07315

I found your faces glowing with the light of the love of God and each one of you bearing the tokens of His infinite grace. By my life, the glory of the All-Merciful shineth in your illumined faces and the signs of His guidance are manifest as though adorned with diadems of faithfulness. I am thrilled at an image so unique of a splendid group whose members have set their faces towards the Kingdom of the glorious Lord.  AB07717

A Baha'i is one who strives day and night to progress in the degrees of existence, whose ultimate desire is to conduct himself in such a way that all humanity may benefit and be illumined thereby, whose point of focus is ever the attributes of God, and whose behavior leads to infinite progress. To the extent of his capacity, he must become a mercy to all mankind and, according to his ability, a gift to the human race.  AB00171

Blessed are the party of God, the people of Baha, who are like unto the surging ocean and like unto the sun, radiant and luminous. The darkness of the people of the Bayan does not hold them back from the light, nor do the doubts of the people of allusions deprive them of the horizon of the All-Merciful. Their hearts are sanctified from rancor and hatred. They hold fast to the cord of grace and cling to the hem of justice.   BH00572

The friends of God must be, among the people, a living proof and testimony of the truth, so that all people may bear witness to their nobility - that this people has lit the lamp of guidance and consumed all attachment to aught else, and in the school of divine love, they have learned from the Teacher of Love the lesson of sacrificing their lives. They are detached from all save God and illumined by the rays of the Sun of Truth.  AB12328

the divine friends, through the merciful bounty, are like the Day of Resurrection - in joy and delight at every moment, and through God's infinite grace, they are confident and happy. Day and night they strive with heart and soul to raise high the banner of guidance and to recite the verses of the power of the Blessed Beauty, and to associate with people with divine qualities, heavenly words, merciful behavior and celestial deeds.  AB01271

When you see a person illumined by celestial virtues, attracted to the sanctified breath, detached from all besides God, making the mention of the Lord, heedless of this nether world, his thoughts heavenly, his talk spiritual, and his speech sweetened by divine exhortations, then know that this person is a manifestation of the Merciful and a teacher unto the nations. This is the station of man and the cause of people's happiness.   ABU0879

In the nights and days he speaketh in remembrance of the Lord of all mankind and holdeth fast to the promotion of His Cause. Blessed be his tongue, his hand, his heart, his hearing and his sight. He is among those who have entrusted their affairs unto their Lord and have placed their reliance in Him under all conditions, who have caused their will to be extinguished in His will and have chosen for themselves what God hath chosen for them.   BH04093

Should any one of you enter a city, he should become a centre of attraction by reason of his sincerity, his faithfulness and love, his honesty and fidelity, his truthfulness and loving-kindness towards all the peoples of the world, so that the people of that city may cry out and say: 'This man is unquestionably a Baha'i, for his manners, his behaviour, his conduct, his morals, his nature, and disposition reflect the attributes of the Baha'is.'  AB00044

I hope each one of you will carry away in his hand a bouquet from the blessed Garden of Abha and perfume the nostrils of whomsoever you come in contact. Know ye of a certainty that this Cause is like unto a sea. The sea does not accept the dead body. It will throw it out by all means. Therefore you must be severed, attracted, enkindled, godlike, righteous, upright, evanescent, humble and at all time turning your faces toward the Kingdom of Abha.  ABU0804

a firm conviction of the unity of God, the Peerless; a heartfelt love for all His maidservants; spotless purity and chastity; obedience to and consideration for her husband; attention to the education and nurturing of her children; composure, calmness, dignity and self-possession; diligence in praising God, and worshipping Him both night and day; constancy and firmness in His holy Covenant; and the utmost ardour, enthusiasm, and attachment to His Cause.  AB01230

To be silent concerning the faults of others, to pray for them, and to help them -- through kindness -- to correct their faults. To look always at the good and not at the bad. If a man has ten good qualities and one bad one, to look at the ten and forget the one; and if a man has ten bad qualities and one good one, to look at the one and forget the ten. To never to allow ourselves to speak one unkind word about another, even though that other be our enemy.   ABU1013

And may salutations, greetings and glory rest upon those souls who have acquired these lights and rent asunder the veils and become aware of the mysteries and witnessed the signs and were gathered in the company of the righteous and arose to serve their chosen Lord and diffused the fragrances and chanted the manifest verses and were gladdened by the glad-tidings and turned to the allusions and hearkened to the striking of the Trump from the Supreme Concourse.  AB08393

It is my hope that this dear friend of mine may make such progress in the stations of human perfection that thou shalt indeed shine like a brilliant lamp. It is my prayer that thou mayest so evolve in the acquisition of goodly qualities that thou shalt gleam like a radiant star on the horizon of destiny and certitude in such wise that the souls who are united may commune with each other in joy and may be inspired to utter the same speech and the same melody.   AB04168

The handmaidens who are mentioned in His presence are those who burn like true candles, who are constantly in motion like the mighty ocean, who are stirred up like the surging breeze and are the signs of attraction to the Abha Kingdom, the banners of desire lifted high in the sky. They are the ones who shed tears of joy for the love of Baha'u'llah, like the clouds in springtime; they are the ones whose faces are wreathed with smiles like a flash of lightening.  AB08300

It is my desire that Baha'u'llah shall be pleased with you, that you may follow His precepts and become worthy of His confirmations. The requirements are that your minds must be illumined, your souls must be rejoiced with the glad tidings of God, you must become imbued with spiritual moralities, your daily life must evidence faith and assurance, your hearts must be sanctified and pure, reflecting a high degree of love and attraction toward the Kingdom of Abha.   ABU0596

Though days were spent in the West, the friends of the East were ever present in my thoughts, for they are the exemplars of the foremost ones are the foremost ones - these are they who are brought nigh. They are tested believers who, like pure gold, have shone forth in the fire of tests, have burned with heart and soul in the fire of the love of God, and have sacrificed their lives in the path of the Beloved. Therefore they are foremost, near, respected, and proven.  AB10465

There are impatient, intolerant, and unforgiving people who have good intentions even though they lack proper conduct. These should certainly not be regarded with hatred, for they are truthful not false, trustworthy not treacherous, and so forth. Now let us speak of people of good character who are luminous and merciful, who possess humility and submissiveness, who are faithful and steadfast, who are good-natured and kind, and who are the cause of joy to heart and soul.   ABU1974

The Baha'i students in Beirut are well known for the beauty of their character, the purity of their deeds, and the loftiness of their morality. From whomsoever one inquires about the Baha'i students, one will hear unstinted praise. In reality they are intelligent, sober, industrious, diligent, displaying good manners and behavior and concentrating all their attention on their acquirement of knowledge. They do not spend their time in frivolous amusements and distracting recreations.  ABU0802

these free spirits are enraptured and enchanted, luminous and merciful, they have kindled a fire and become consumed moths, they have rent asunder the veils of idle fancies and heard the call of the Concourse on High, they have witnessed the Most Great Standards and chanted verses of praise and glorification, they are self-sacrificing and devoted, high-minded and enraptured, day and night they have no thought save the remembrance of God and no attention except toward the Abha Kingdom  AB11854

Say: Those who commit indecency and cling to the world are not of the people of Baha. They are souls who, should they pass through a valley of gold, would pass it by as passing clouds, never turning toward it. They are indeed of Me - the Concourse on High would surely find from their garments the fragrance of sanctity. Were the most beautiful women to appear before them in their finest adornment, their eyes would not turn toward them with desire. These are they who were created from piety.   BH00739

Move amongst men with godly qualities, that all people may inhale His fragrances from your deeds, acts and words, and turn towards the Friend. Every tree must yield befitting and worthy fruit, for if a tree beareth no fruit, it is fit only for the fire, and so shall it ever be. Therefore must the trees of human souls in this divine springtime bring forth wondrous fruits. The fruit of these trees hath ever been and shall ever be the knowledge of God and goodly deeds that are pleasing unto Him.   BH00997

To-day the souls who are illumined with these lights and informed of these traces, have opened eyes, attentive ears and eloquent tongues. These are the souls who have assembled under the Protection of the Beauty of ABHA, and who have been ushered into the Kingdom of GOD. All the nations and sects are in slumber, while these souls are wakeful. All are entangled with desire and passion, while these souls are attracted to GOD. All are travelling in darkness, while these souls are in the Realm of Lights.  ABU0581

Blessed is the soul that hath inhaled the musk of faithfulness wafting from the garden of grandeur, that hath become illumined by the light which illumineth earth and heaven, who hath become the target of arrows, become as dust in the path of his Lord, the Most High, glorified the all-glorious Beauty, tasted the sweetness of remembrance of God at every morn and eventide, occupied himself wholly with God, paid no heed to the comforts and ease of this world, and chosen the other world over this first life.  AB09085

that they might be vested with spiritual characteristics, might become illumined, merciful and the lights of the Kingdom might shine in their hearts. Thus in all the degrees of creation they might become distinguished from the rest of the world; in the refinement of ethics they might become distinguished from every one else; in sincerity they might become distinguished from all the people and they might be characterized and qualified with the virtues of opposition against the sinister forces of ego and self.  ABU1535

The real sons of the Kingdom are those souls who act according to the instruction and teachings of Baha'o'llah, the Blessed Perfection. They are drunken with the cup of providence, and are illuminated by the divine light. They are honored by all their perfections and virtues of humanity, and are characterized with attributes which embellish the essence of man in such a manner that all people, even the enemies, testify of their good actions, attractions, separation from the world, purity, sanctity, knowledge and belief.  ABU1182

Be ye symbols of guidance and lights of godliness, severed from the world, clinging to the handhold that is sure and strong, spreading abroad the spirit of life, riding the Ark of salvation. Be ye daysprings of generosity, dawning-points of the mysteries of existence, sites where inspiration alighteth, rising-places of splendours, souls that are sustained by the Holy Spirit, enamoured of the Lord, detached from all save Him, holy above the characteristics of humankind, clothed in the attributes of the angels of heaven.   AB00874

For those souls who have been nurtured under divine education are manifestations of the Lord's mercy, are purely good, and are even well-wishers to their enemies. Free from thoughts of stranger or kin, they gaze toward the Most Sublime Vision and are heedless of the selfish purposes of the human world. They are an ocean of patience and tranquility, and while they taste poison from the hands of the world's peoples, they give honey in return. They respond to the wounds of arrows and spears with generosity and kindness.   AB00343

Therefore, I say unto you that, verily, the angels of the Kingdom pray for the maid-servants of the Merciful; the possessors of brilliant hearts, spiritual susceptibilities, godlike feelings, heavenly attributes, holy characteristics, confident souls, perfection of humanity and sanctified and pure souls who are striving to spread the spirit of harmony -- holy above qualities (pertaining to) nature and passion -- spreaders of the fragrances of God severed from all else save God, banners of union and peace -- signs of love and accord!   AB04145

They see for themselves no mention, praise, utterance, deed or end save through Thy power, bounty and grace. The ornaments of the world are gathered unto them solely that they might spend them in Thy path, and they love naught of all things save for the exaltation of Thy Word and the promotion of Thy Cause. These are Thy chosen ones amidst Thy creation and Thy trusted ones throughout Thy lands. They sit not but through Thy name, they rise not but in Thy remembrance, and they eat not save it be mingled with thanksgiving and praise unto Thee.   BH05410

The divine friends must arise to fulfill the counsels and exhortations of the Light of Truth, the Ancient Beauty -- may my spirit be a sacrifice for His Threshold -- and put each one into practice. They must not merely read them and leave them deposited in tablets and pages. The spiritual and physical commandments of the Most Great Name -- may my spirit be a sacrifice for His dust -- must be manifested in the realm of being and become embodied in the conditions and conduct of the divine friends. Otherwise, what fruit and what effect would there be?  AB00700

Therefore, the firm ones in the Covenant must arise according to the teachings in the Tablets and manifest such qualities and virtues as to astonish minds and amaze souls. It is necessary and obligatory that it be firmly established throughout the world that the people of God are well-wishers of all and pure lovers of humanity, striving with heart and soul to render service to the human world and show love to mankind, that they are truthful and steadfast, striving and struggling with good intent and perfect love, pure nature and sanctification.  AB00456

But there is one thing in this Cause. Some people may become greater than the rest not through appointment but through the purity of their hearts, their unselfish deeds, their heroic sacrifices and their knowledge of God. Such illumined souls like unto the kind fathers or teachers will guide and teach those less fortunate. They are the elder brothers of the members of the community. They do not arrogate unto themselves any title or any position. You will know them by their humility, sincerity, deeds, severance, knowledge, spirituality and attraction.   ABU2599

Those souls who have entered beneath the Covenant of the Most Great Luminary of the horizons, who have grasped the Most Firm Handle of the Testament, and who are firm and steadfast in the Divine Cause, are like unto the stars of guidance. They are as missiles hurled from the Supreme Concourse, they are standards of guidance, they are waves of the ocean of knowledge, and they are hosts assailing the self and passion. They are flowing springs and flowing rivers, the cause of rest and tranquility, and they strive for the good and welfare of the world of creation.  AB00293

Praise be to God that it has become established to all the nations and all the peoples that the Baha'is are the essence of sanctity, the advocates of universal Peace, the upholders of the unity of the religions and the standard-bearers of the sacredness of human life; that they are upright and righteous, patient and forbearing, long-suffering and humble. They are as guides to the misguided, as the beacon-lights to the wanderers, as dressing to every wound and as honey of love to the poison of hatred. If the people curse them, they ask God to bless their enemies.  ABU0485

Through the bounty of the Ancient Beauty, I hope that God's loved ones will associate with people with divine attributes, that the lights of detachment, sanctity, humility, submissiveness, severance, and attraction will be manifest in their countenances. May they associate with people with utmost courtesy, dignity, serenity, composure, love for the righteous, and service to the free, manifesting virtues and qualities that astonish all humanity. Such souls are worthy of association with the Most Glorious Beauty. A Baha'i means one who possesses all human perfections.   AB00144

I magnify and give peace unto those whose feet have not slipped because of the intimations of the learned, whose hearts have not been troubled by the veils of the mystics, whose eyes have not been prevented from beholding the Most Glorious Horizon, and whose ears have not been kept from hearkening unto the Call of God which hath been raised betwixt earth and heaven. I testify that these are the true believers, these are the sincere ones, these are the near ones, these are the successful ones, these are the mindful ones, and these are they who have held fast unto the Crimson Ark.   BH00543

They work, practice their crafts, and engage in earning their livelihood with utmost effort, yet their hearts are turned toward God, their spirits are gladdened by the glad-tidings of God, and their character has greatly progressed. No blameworthy traits remain among them. They are kind to all the peoples of the world, they love all humanity, and they regard all as their kith and kin. They see the human world as a single tree, and consider all human beings as its leaves, blossoms and fruits. Their supreme desire is universal peace, and their conviction is the oneness of humankind.  ABU0082

Throughout their lives they have walked the path of salvation, and for a long time they have been devoted servants of the Lord of Verses and Clear Signs. They are always engaged in diffusing the divine fragrances, and are wandering, enraptured and enthralled by the Desired One. They have rent asunder the veils and kindled the fire of love and burned away the veils of idle fancies. Like fierce lions they have roared, like the ocean they have surged, and like whales of love they have cried out. At every breath they have sacrificed a hundred thousand lives and have not rested for a moment upon the pillow of comfort.  AB01893

These are the servants whom God hath described in His Books, His Psalms, His Scrolls, and through the tongues of His Prophets, His Chosen Ones, and His Messengers. These are servants who speak not of their own accord, nor move according to their own desires; rather, the winds of God's Will move them as they please, and God's Purpose causes them to speak as He desires. By God's life! They speak that which hath been revealed in the Book and pursue that which they have been commanded in the Tablets. They transgress not their bounds and stations, and confine their affairs to the remembrance of God and the service of His Cause.   BH00625

Perchance, God willing, ye may be helped and confirmed to arise and serve in a befitting and worthy manner, and be assisted to do that which is required; and associate with the people with sanctity, purity, virtue and holiness, so that every one who is near may inhale the fragrance of the delectable Paradise, every intimate one may behold the traits of the most wonderful creation, and all people testify that the Baha'is are the shining lamps of the regions and the rays of the dawning-place of effulgence; recognizing a Baha'i through the quality and not the name, knowing him through the amiable nature and not the physical body.  AB09110

The purpose of being a Baha'i is this, that man should be adorned with all the virtues of humanity. Baha'i means a School, and we are the children in that School; we are the pupils in that School. And when we graduate from that School, we must have a certificate showing that we have acquired virtues; and when we are capable of graduating from that School, when we leave this world, when we hasten to the Kingdom of God, what is our certificate? It consists of good deeds -- consists of attractions of the heart, it consists of philanthropies we have achieved. It is Faith, It is Knowledge, It is the love of God. It is Unity and Agreement; It is the fellowship of the hearts.   ABU0427

Through the protection and help of the Blessed Perfection -- may my life be a sacrifice to His beloved ones! -- you must conduct and deport yourselves in such a manner that you may stand out among other souls distinguished by a brilliancy like unto the sun. If any one of you enters a city he must become the center of attraction because of the sincerity, faithfulness, love, honesty, fidelity, truthfulness and loving-kindness of his disposition toward all the inhabitants of the world, that the people of the city may all cry out: "This person is unquestionably a Baha'i, for his manners, his behavior, his conduct, his morals, his nature and his disposition are of the attributes of the Baha'is."  AB09107

They are blazing lamps and are set aflame with the fire of God. They are verses of unity in the book of creation and are words of sanctification and letters of praise and glorification in the preserved tablet of contingent being and the unfurled scroll of existence. They speak the truth and are steadfast in their Covenant, arise in service, are engaged in guiding others, are familiar with holy fragrances and intimate with the remembrance of God. They are kind to friend and stranger alike and are loving toward both acquaintance and foreigner with heart and soul. Such are the characteristics of the Baha'is, such are the attributes of the spiritual ones, such is the inexhaustible treasure, and such is the divine spirit in the body of contingent being.  AB00095

The beloved of the Lord, with their musk-scented breath, burn like bright candles in every clime, and the friends of the All-Merciful, even as unfolding flowers, can be found in all regions. Not for a moment do they rest; they breathe not but in remembrance of Thee, and crave naught but to serve Thy Cause. In the meadows of truth they are as sweet-singing nightingales, and in the flower-garden of guidance they are even as brightly-coloured blossoms. With mystic flowers they adorn the walks of the Garden of Reality; as swaying cypresses they line the riverbanks of the Divine Will. Above the horizon of being they shine as radiant stars; in the firmament of the world they gleam as resplendent orbs. Manifestations of celestial grace are they, and daysprings of the light of divine assistance.   AB00204

Now, once more you return to your school in Beirut. Glorified be God that the Baha'i students are renowned in that city for their righteous ways, upright character and honest deeds. Everyone speaks your praise. It is naught save the bounties and favors of the Blessed Beauty that have made you shine so brilliantly in all eyes. Verily, you have behaved in a manner that brings prestige to the Cause of God. The Blessed Beauty is pleased with you; people are pleased. I too am pleased, as are the friends of God. This is a divine favor. Seldom does it happen that both God and people are pleased with someone. If you ask anyone, they would say, "The Baha'i students are indeed wise, perfect and well-behaved. They devote all their time to their studies, never wasting their time on unworthy affairs." Everyone will testify to this.   ABU0533

when anyone sees you walking upon the earth, they will say These are the angels of heaven; and when they hear your chanting in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, they will say This is the singing of praise and glorification from the birds of the Supreme Concourse; and when they behold your faces, they will say These are faces wherein shines the splendor of the All-Merciful; and when they look upon your forms, they will say These are lofty trees in the Abha Paradise; and when they see the radiance of your lights, they will say These are brilliant faces in the horizon on high; and when they witness the light of your love, they will say These are bright lamps in the glass of sanctity among all people; and when they hear your words, they will say Verily these utterances are from the breathings of the Holy Spirit that influence the realities of all things.  AB10244

The friends of God must, through His boundless grace and favor, arise with such spirit and detachment that they may become the brilliant candles of the assemblage of humanity. They must manifest divine virtues and become the dawning-places of heavenly conscience. In truthfulness and sincerity, they must become the greatest signs, and in faithfulness and loyalty, the mightiest standards. They must be the cause of tranquility and ease in the world of creation, and the reason for the development and prosperity of every land and region. In obedience and service to government they must be exemplary, and in honesty and good intent they must be renowned and distinguished among the nobles. With all peoples and communities they must be loving friends. In crafts and innovations they must become skilled masters, and in agriculture and commerce they must excel all others.  AB00026

First, they must show complete truthfulness, pure intention, goodwill and trustworthiness in obeying the government, and be well-wishers of both state and nation in every respect. Second, they must deal with all the peoples of the world with the utmost kindliness, goodwill, sincere intention and perfect love. They must be signs of divine mercy to mankind and the cause of blessing and harmony among humanity. In times of tribulation, they must respond to cruelty with faithfulness and deal with love and unity. They must be well-wishers to those who wish them ill and soul friends to their enemies. They must be detached from all save God and free from attachment to this transient world. Night and day they must so blaze with the fire of the love of God and so shine with the light of the knowledge of God that they turn night into day and day into the New Day, until they become victorious and triumphant throughout all horizons.   AB00608
