"Assuredly, give to the poor."   ABU3350

The poor of this world suffer: we should care for them.  ABU2083

Regarding the society of healing of which thou art a member  AB11458

Direction to spend proceeds "on orphans and the poor and weak"   AB05356

"Its charities will be dispensed irrespective of colour and race."  ABU2301

I beg of God that these philanthropic aims of yours may play a great effect in this world   AB06546

charitable deeds, benevolent acts and gladdening the hearts of the poor have a mighty effect  AB09921

Your donating the expenses of the Italy trip to the poor was very timely and caused my joy.   AB00493

Sell the honey and offspring of the bees that were pledged and give the proceeds to the poor.  AB02532


Regarding what thou hadst written about the selection of the assembly for charitable affairs and benevolent works  AB06708

Likewise the charitable association meeting - this is very beneficial and brings comfort to souls of every kind.   AB04680

Concerning the income of the printing and publishing society, as ye write, it must be expended for charitable purposes.   AB01171

Regarding the Charitable Society about which thou didst write - you must certainly support this society and encourage it.   AB00368

He will be forced, for his own happiness, to expend his wealth to procure better conditions for the community in which he lives.  ABU3245

A school for orphans, a college for higher scientific education,(or higher knowledge), a hospital, a home for cripples, a hospice.  ABU1041

They organized many Societies, laid the foundation of many philanthropic institutions and became famous for their charitable deeds.   ABU0515

Blessed is the Spiritual Assembly for having prepared some food for distribution among the poor and weak. Let those who act, act likewise.   AB02448

If not, each person may contribute something toward a general fund and thus silence the creditors. This is the imperative duty of the believers.   ABU2760

Regarding the charitable company you wrote about, this charitable company must be protected and preserved, and complete order must be strived for.   AB01387

Regarding the charitable educational association you had written about - praise be to God they are engaged in service and generous with life and wealth.  AB11691

If their maintenance cannot be provided from the school's assistance fund, charge it to 'Abdu'l-Baha's account. God willing, I shall meet their expenses.  AB11354

I desire that the divine friends spend these amounts on charitable works for the general benefit of humanity on my behalf. This matter is very important.   AB02937

Each path will lead to a center such as an orphanage, a hospital, a school, a university and other buildings that are dependencies of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  ABU2854

These were truly magnificent tidings, and the charitable giving by the friends of God to the poor and weak on the Day of the Declaration was most beloved and acceptable.  AB12022

for praise be to God, such an association has been formed for the education of orphaned children and the livelihood of orphans, with members from every nation and religion   AB00769

"This was observed in the charitable effects of your honor in traveling through American cities, namely in some universities and peace societies and in promoting education."  AB03273

Now they are building a hospital, a school for orphans, a home for cripples, a hospice and a large dispensary. God willing, when it is fully completed, it will be a paradise.   ABU1153

Another is the getting ready of hospitals, dispensaries, home for cripples, schools for educating orphans, etc.  ABU1047

On one side, the largest and most important scientific school will be raised. Then He added, On the other side, there will be an asylum for invalids and on the opposite side an orphanage.  ABU3654

"Regarding the charitable funds from the endowments of your late grandfather about which you wrote - distribute these among the poor, weak, disabled and orphans, whether friend or stranger."  AB01153


To know that to help the poor and to be merciful is good and pleases God, but knowledge alone does not feed the starving man, nor can the poor be warmed by knowledge or words, in the bitter winter.  ABU1410

All societies, all organizations, working for the betterment of the human race are good, very good. All who work for their brothers and sisters have Baha'u'llah's blessing. They will surely succeed.   ABU3042

Regarding the "Barakat Fund", it should be treated an any other joint enterprise, and this case part of the profit should, in conformity of the decision of the House of Justice, be dedicated to charity.  AB02904


I hope that this charitable group will be assisted by the confirmation of the Abha Kingdom, and that this society will become the origin and foundation for other societies throughout successive centuries and ages.  AB07342

"On another part of it there will be a home for the incurables. In still another part there will be a home for the poor. In still another part there will be a home for orphans. All these will be administered with love."  ABU1954

Praise be to God that during the time of famine, scarcity, hardship and tribulation, the Society for the Aid of the Poor showed forth effort and rendered assistance, and the poor among the friends remained patient, thankful and dignified.  AB08643

When famine and scarcity enveloped Iran, the illustrious Sultanu'sh-Shuhada and the Mahbubu'sh-Shuhada in Isfahan would generously give of their estate, would ensure the well-being of all the Baha'is, and would help non-believers as well.  ABU3646

The Charitable Society is among the institutions of the Lord of creation, for it cares for orphans and ensures comfort for the poor, weak and needy among mankind, and is a means for teaching children and promoting the Cause of the All-Merciful.   AB00531

In America, a company has been established under the name of the Iran-America Educational Society... if the American friends wish, of their own accord and with willing hearts, to make a contribution to the Tarbiyat School, this will increase the connection   AB02073

The Mashrak-el-azkar has important accessories which are accounted of the basic foundations. These are: school for orphan children, hospital and dispensary for the poor, place for the incapable (i.e., home for the crippled), college for the higher scientific education.   AB03154

Any movement that is for the benefit of mankind should be joined by the Baha'is. If they are not asked to help, they should offer their services, especially in all kinds of charitable work. They must not be exclusive but general and serve believers and unbelievers alike.  ABU3263

"thou mayest be confirmed in that important cause, which is of greatest service to the world of humanity, for those poor children are dying of hunger and their condition is truly heart-rending"   AB02381

Regarding the charitable society, importance must certainly be given to it. The disciples of the Spirit (Christ) - may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him - were eleven in number, and they established a charitable fund. Thus, the organization of such a fund was of such importance.  AB01174

In every village a certain amount should be allocated for the orphans there. The disabled must be provided for. The treasury must also provide for the needy who are unable to work. The council will also allocate a certain amount for the department of education and for public health.  AB00274

As for the charitable company, I hope that through the aid and favor of the Blessed Beauty it will progress day by day, and that its members will arise to serve with lofty resolve and noble aims, that the work of teaching will be strengthened and the divine fragrances will be diffused.  AB08225

"The aim is this, that the friends of God must assist each other, and in assistance be greater than all the other communities of the world. If ones of the friends find out that another has no food for this evening, for instance, he should not rest, he should not sleep till he finds food for him."   ABU0266

And concerning what you had written about the success of some of the loved ones who occasionally give charity to wayfarers and the poor of the city, it was presented in the Most Holy Court. He said this matter has been and will be most beloved. Blessed is he whom God hath assisted to spend in His path.  BH00398


Charity to the poor and needy is the best of all deeds. Similarly, providing welfare to the elderly, the disabled and orphans is the greatest service in the world of humanity. Its effect is like giving water to the thirsty soil, or bestowing life and spirit on the dead or granting the perfect healing medicine to the ill.  ABU1843

Therefore it became evident that the end of the people of wealth is disappointment after disappointment; except those rich persons who expend their money in charitable affairs and dispense their wealth on philanthropic channels. Such blessed souls like unto the brilliant stars will shine from the horizon of Everlasting Glory.   ABU1354

In the gathering of fellowship, the discussions must be confined to beneficial matters, namely: the exaltation of the Word of God, promotion of the teachings of God, education of souls, instruction of children, protection and nurturing of orphans, assistance to the weak and poor, support of the disabled, promotion of charitable works and benevolent causes.   AB03230

The Western friends have rendered a worthy service to the Tarbiat School through the instrumentality of the Orient-Occident Unity in Washington. It is hoped that this channel of philanthropy will be continually widened, its various interests solidified, its annual scholarships kept up and increased in number, and its wholesome, disinterested influence expanded.  AB09108

Your letter hath come and hath occasioned the utmost joy, with its news that, praised be God, in Hamadan a welfare and relief association hath been established. I trust that this will become a source of general prosperity and assistance, and that means will be provided to set the hearts of the poor and weak at rest, and to educate the orphans and other children.  AB02690

"For example, in the record you can find that there were certain endowments for the orphans; there were certain endowments for the cripples; there were certain endowments to take care of the very poor; and there were certain endowments for the burial of the dead; and they had certain endowments amongst the old Syrians for the strangers. They had even endowments for the servant class."  ABU0208

And if you possess means, extend your hands in giving to its people, for whosoever spends one mithqal of silver in those lands, it is as though he had spent two thousand and one mithqals in lands other than those lands. [You must] reach out to the most helpless of people, and you shall watch over in those lands one who is not known and whom no one knows, for these are the friends of God.   BB00661

It is essential to establish resources for the livelihood of the weak and poor, and for the education of children and orphans. What your honor has written is, for now, the easiest approach. However, in every country a special center is needed where each soul can contribute according to their means, and when a significant sum accumulates, the returns from that amount can be spent on charitable causes.  AB03167

This town is very sacred in the estimation of the Jews; yet they seldom think of its improvement and cleanliness. The Jews who live in Europe and America are extremely rich and if they could devise some means to cause the growth and refinement of this town it would be a great boon to the world of humanity. Already various Jewish Societies, benevolent and otherwise have founded thriving, progressive colonies in various parts of Palestine and Syria but they have done nothing for Tiberias.  ABU2787

It is incumbent upon all to submit to the Spiritual Assembly and show it the utmost respect. Likewise, they must consider charitable contributions as highly important and strive with the utmost effort in this blessed endeavor. These charitable contributions are among the essential requirements, so that the needy and distressed may be assisted, and particularly the young children - especially orphans and the poor who are God's trust - may be supported and the means for their education provided.  AB09309

Helping the poor and orphans is service to the Kingdom of God and no righteous deed has been or is greater than this...if you could assist the poor of Syria it would be more acceptable, and this should be done through a trustworthy person among the friends like Kalim, because when committees in those regions send aid through committees in these regions, most of the funds sent are kept by the committees here and very little reaches the poor. But if you send it through the friends, all of it reaches the poor.  AB03182

When man engages in benevolent and charitable deeds, the springs of bounty and abundance gush forth, and plenitude unfolds from heaven and earth.  ABU1671
