Once when I was passing over Mount Carmel, I saw one of them [the nuns] ascending with such a state of supplication and humility, and had such a murmur that was very touching. I was very pleased and stood listening. Truly purity and cleanliness has a strange effect. ABU2425

Hold fast unto trustworthiness, chastity and faithfulness.   BH10116

Chastity and purity of life are the two divine standards of the spiritual and moral law.  ABU2960

while behind the veil of chastity and purity, a female can be the epitome of strength and power   AB06730

Therefore, strive as much as you can to manifest supreme chastity, the purity of the highest realm   AB07412

hold fast unto purity, that the people of Paradise may inhale from thee the sweet fragrance of holiness   BH05752

We beseech God to preserve all from that which is unseemly and to adorn them with the ornament of chastity.  BH06813

We counsel all to manifest the most great steadfastness, and chastity, and trustworthiness, and faithfulness...   BH05233

Thou thyself art witness that in most Tablets We have summoned all to chastity, trustworthiness and religiosity.  BH11923

Any soul from whom signs of wickedness and lust become manifest, such a one is not and has never been of the Truth  BH11522

Be a sign of sanctification and a banner of holiness, that thou mayest shed abroad upon the world the lights of true chastity  AB11491

with teaching the various branches of knowledge, good behaviour, a proper way of life, the cultivation of a good character, chastity and constancy   AB03742

The first ornament and the foremost adornment for the handmaidens of God, after recognition, is chastity. Blessed is the handmaiden who holdeth fast unto it.  BH00242

If a woman were to seek a new bed-companion each day this behavior would be evidence of complete unchastity. When thou considerest it truly, it is the same for men.  AB03194

Become a manifestation of bounty and the essence of sanctification, detachment and supreme purity. Teach the sign of chastity and in the school of handmaidens give lessons in infinite virtue.  AB09161

Therefore they must arise to that which befits this station and is worthy of this glory - namely, purity and detachment, radiance and sanctification, chastity and holiness, spirituality and cleanliness  AB07515

We enjoin the servants of God and His handmaidens to be pure and to fear God, that they may shake off the slumber of their corrupt desires, and turn toward God, the Maker of the heavens and of the earth.  BH00005

The greatest ornament for the handmaidens hath ever been and still is chastity and virtue. By God! The light of chastity illumineth the horizons of the spiritual worlds and its fragrance reacheth unto the Most Exalted Paradise.   BH02573

Furthermore, marriage becomes a fortress for a person, protecting them from passion and desire, and preserves them. It becomes the cause of one's chastity and purity, for in God's sight nothing is greater than chastity and purity. This is the highest station in the human world and among the characteristics of this divine creation, while its opposite belongs to the animal world.  ABU2323

Marriage is the greatest fortress for the preservation of man's purity. It shall protect him from immoral deeds. It will be the means of his chastity and sanctity. In the estimation of God there are no greater attributes than chastity and sanctity. The Most wonderful Bestowal of God is sanctity. These two qualities are specialized in man. Their absence means animalism and the ascendency of brute passions.   ABU1783

Women and men must not embrace each other when not married, or not about to be married. They must not kiss each other. If women kiss women, that is not bad. If men kiss men, that is not bad. But men and women must not embrace. Such a conduct is not taught in the Bahai Revelation, and it must not be done. It is not permitted. If they wish to greet each other, or comfort each other, they must take each other by the hand.   Describe how you have seen the women in the East, as in Haifa. The Blessed Beauty directed that there should be great modesty in the women, that they should not bare the neck and bosom, and that the women in the East should wear a veil.  The conditions are different in the West, but the women of the West must see the spiritual significance of this teaching. Do not distress them by saying that they should not have done this or that. They will see by themselves. Talk about this only, so to speak, one by one, with the friends, when you have opportunity.  ABU1642

The people of Baha must be manifestations of the greatest chastity and supreme virtue. In the divine texts it is written, and the meaning of the verse in Persian is that even if the most beautiful women were to pass before them, their gaze would never turn in that direction. The meaning is that purity and sanctity are among the greatest characteristics of the people of Baha. The assured and tranquil believing women must become renowned throughout all regions for their complete purity, sanctity, chastity, virtue, modesty, veiling, and bashfulness, so that all may testify to their purity, cleanliness, and virtuous qualities.  For one speck of chastity is greater than a hundred thousand years of worship and a sea of knowledge. AB06060

But the essences of chastity and modesty, that is, the women who are faithful to God and assured in Him  AB03918

They have laid an everlasting foundation in this transient world and have kindled such a flame at the pole of the earth that the veils of the peoples were consumed. These women became the pride of men and embodied temples manifesting chastity and virtue.  AB09589

The greatest adornment for handmaidens hath ever been and shall ever be chastity and virtue. By God! The light of chastity illumineth the horizons of the worlds of meaning, and its fragrance reacheth unto the Most Exalted Paradise.  BH06517

The greatest adornment for women in this world hath been supreme chastity, and the most excellent of all deeds is mighty steadfastness. We beseech God to adorn all with these two most exalted attributes.   BH07910

We counsel thee and all handmaidens to observe supreme chastity and the most great purity, and to that which will exalt your mention and your names amongst the servants and the loved ones.  BH03155

God hath made chastity a crown for the heads of His handmaidens. Blessed is the handmaiden who hath attained unto this mighty station.   BH03218

"let your watchword be 'clean bodies, pure spirits'"  ABU2264

All pure things are acceptable. For example: water-pure-is acceptable; fresh air is most acceptable. As all pure things are acceptable and pleasing, therefore a pure voice is most acceptable, and causes great enjoyment. There are two kinds of voices. One when the complete instrument is perfect, then the emission of sound is perfect. The second is when the instrument is imperfect, it affects the voice in such a way that is far from pleasing.  ABU0474

"The Blessed Beauty directed that there should be great modesty in the women, that they should not bare the neck and bosom, and that the women in the East should wear a veil."   ABU1642

