At stated periods souls are sent to earth by the Mighty God with what we call 'the Power of the Great Ether.' And they who possess this power can do anything; they have all Power...  Jesus Christ had this power. The people though him a poor young man whom they had crucified but he possessed the power of the Holy Spirit; therefore he could not remain underground. This ethereal power arose and quickened the world. BHU0030

Christ was the Word of God, the Spirit of God. The Blessed Beauty made His station manifest in the East. The people of the East did not read the Torah and the Gospel; Baha'u'llah spread them in the East. He mentioned Christ with utmost sanctity; He did not mention anyone else like Christ.  ABU0245

These are the melodies, sung by Jesus, Son of Mary, in accents of majestic power in the Ridvan of the Gospel, revealing those signs that must needs herald the advent of the Manifestation after Him. In the first Gospel according to Matthew it is recorded: And when they asked Jesus concerning the signs of His coming, He said unto them...  BH00002

Even regarding Christ, descriptions are recorded in the Qur'an that have no parallel in the Gospel, saying that Christ spoke in the cradle and proclaimed His prophethood.   ABU1743

Christ and the Bible be for us; the Pope and all the priests be for you. We follow Christ and not the priests. We give more importance to what Christ said than what the Pope and the cardinals say. We are the followers of Christ. We love him and are always ready to sacrifice our lives for him.  ABU3201

This is what Christ said: "I am the bread which came down from heaven: whosoever eateth of this bread shall live forever"   AB04482

Know verily that the reign of Jesus was a spiritual reign, penetrative in the hearts and the spirits and not ever the bodies, rocks and earth. The fetters which Christ put on Satan's neck meant the breaking of his power, the hindering of his dominion and the dispersing of his assemblage through the power of Inspiration and Revelation.  AB03882

This is but one melody from the melodies of the Gospel that was revealed concerning the Pride of the Messengers. However, as the Christian people have fallen into the wilderness of error and blindness, they have disregarded this explicit statement without any ambiguity, and have clung to vain interpretations, saying that what was meant by these verses was the Holy Spirit that descended upon the disciples after Christ's ascension. This is the custom of all peoples, that they close their eyes to the clear meanings of the divine verses and cling to vain interpretations of ambiguous passages.  AB00173

Consider thou that Abdul Baha is proving the validity of Christ through divine argument, brilliant traces and infinite outpouring, so that the Christians may attain to the Truth of His Highness Christ, and other nations likewise may realize His greatness. Nevertheless these Christians dislike me very much and turn away from me.  AB05481

Christ forbade war! When the disciple Peter, thinking to defend his Lord, cut off the ear of the servant of the High Priest, Christ said to him: 'Put up thy sword into the sheath'. Yet, in spite of the direct command of the Lord they profess to serve -- men still dispute, make war, and kill one another, and His counsels and teaching seem quite forgotten.  ABU0072


Regarding the appearance of Christ, there were many prophecies in the bible which foretold his coming...The teachings of Moses were like a seed, but when the seed grew into a plant and bore blossom, then fruit--the fruit signified Christ, who was the result of all the teachings of Moses.   ABU1384

The Christian Teaching was illumined by the Divine Sun of Truth, therefore its followers were taught to love all men as brothers to fear nothing, not even death! To love their neighbours as themselves, and to forget their own selfish interests in striving for the greater good of humanity. The grand aim of the religion of Christ was to draw the hearts of all men nearer to God's effulgent Truth.  ABU0625

The teachings of Christ covered a period of three years; the dispensation of Moses lasted forty years. After Moses led the people of Israel from the land of bondage, he found it necessary to inaugurate certain physical rules to show them how to live. In the lifetime of Christ only a small group gathered around him. After his declaration, his mission lasted but three years; there was neither time nor occasion for a complete code of laws.  ABU1957

Since Christ intended to promote a Cause that entailed the education of the human race, the quickening of the children of men, and the enlightenment of all humanity, and since promoting such a mighty Cause--a Cause that would antagonize all the peoples of the earth and withstand the opposition of every nation and government--was bound to bring about the spilling of His blood and to lead to His crucifixion and death, therefore at the moment He revealed His mission He offered up His life, welcomed the cross as His throne, regarded every wound as a balm and every poison as sweetest honey, and arose to instruct and guide the people.   AB00096

"The principles of Christ's life were love and mercy. He prayed for his enemies on the cross. He came into the world in order to show men a new application of the Law of Love and he embodied this divine Idea in his life. He was the founder of the law of non-resistance."  ABU0332


Christ, Who was the Word of God, sacrificed Himself.   AB00096

Do ye doubt Him unto Whom the Son of Mary ascended?  BH11785

When Jesus Christ came to this world, He planted a tree. I have come to see what has become of that tree. The branches are all turned toward the earth.  ABU3389

This is the Day whereon human ears have been privileged to hear what He Who conversed with God heard upon Sinai, what He Who is the Friend of God heard when lifted up towards Him, what He Who is the Spirit of God heard as He ascended unto Him, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  BH07881

Open the eye of wisdom and close the path of pride, That thou mayyst see Mount Sinai circling here in worship, That thou mayst see the Spirit of Christ restless from His love  BH03843

Christ gave new life and effect to the meanings of the ancient law.  ABU3572

the human body of Christ hid his divinity from the people of his day   ABU2529

He sent forth the Spirit (Christ) to summon all the world to His oneness   BH01686

Christ manifested the Spirit of God in the flesh and helped the earth in his time  ABU2956

His Holiness Christ lived in destitution, which is why He revealed, "Blessed are the poor."  ABU1843

What guilt and calumny was evident from Christ against the Seal of the Prophets that you crucified Him?  BH08151

Remember the poverty of Jesus, the persecution of the Jews to His glorious person and the scorn of Him.  AB11307

This is what Christ meant when He said, "I am not come to destroy the law of the Torah but to promote it."   ABU2314

His Holiness Jesus, peace be upon Him, educated the nations of the West until they reached that highest degree of progress.  ABU1031

One of the spiritual utterances of His Holiness Christ in his sermon of the Mount is preferable to me than all writings of the philosophers.  ABU3243

Even when someone addressed Christ and called Him good, He responded, Why callest thou me good? For there is none good but One, that is God.  AB08326

"Christ was once eating grapes and He said: 'I shall not eat these grapes any more until I shall eat again in the Kingdom of my Heavenly Father.'"  ABU0720

His Holiness Christ always used to cross this Mount Carmel, Haifa and Nazareth. Therefore these cities and this mountain have a spiritual atmosphere.  ABU2010

Reflect upon the matter of the ascetic of the world, namely Christ, and His mother, and likewise upon the events that transpired after the ascension of the Spirit.   BH03495

"Whom do you think Christ was?" H. S. "I believe he was a great philosopher." A. B. "Oh, no! He was much greater than a philosopher. He was the Word of God, the Spirit of God."  ABU1250

When His Holiness Christ gathered his disciples together on that last night, it was not in a church, it was in a room. On that night they had the Last Supper. It was in a room.   ABU1654

One man is so exalted that others bow down before Him and He is adored by them like Christ or Moses...But observe what a banner of unique being Christ unfurled without friend or helper.   ABU1840

Christ was spirit while others are body; Christ was the Sun while others are mirrors; Christ was Truth and bestowed eternal life while others are dead and bestow lethargy and negligence   AB01398

It is recorded in one of the Tablets of Baha'u'llah that at one time His Holiness Christ was in the wilderness.  It was night and impenetrably dark.  It was very cold and he was thinly clad.  Then it started to rain very hard.  Christ did not know to which direction he should turn his face in this pitch darkness.  He tried to walk but he stumbled at every step.  Finally he reached a cave.  He wished to enter in, in order to escape the rain, but he heard the roaring of lions and wild animals.  He came out and stood alone in the open.  The rain became torrential and dashing against the slopes of rocky mountains, formed streams of waters, carrying everything before them with fury and rage.  Now and then flashes of lightening revealed the awful havoc wrought by the storm and thunder pealed across the sky.  While the rain was pouring upon his head he said: 'Oh God!  Thou hast provided nests for the fowls of the air, caverns for the wild beasts, folds for the sheep but Oh Lord!  Thou hast not given even a small cottage to the Son of man so that he might protect himself from the rain.  O Father!  Thou beholdest that my bed is the hard earth, my food is the grass of the field and my lamps are the stars of the night.  After a few minutes of silence he burst forth in glorious thanksgiving by saying:- O God!  Who is richer than I?'  ABU1519

And among them was Jesus, whom God assisted with the Holy Spirit and sent with truth. He said: "Fear ye God, O people of the earth, and be not of those who are not guided by the light of God."  BH02051

It is a spot hallowed with the presence of His Holiness Christ - May my life be a ransom to Him! Often he walked around the shore of the Sea of Galilee, and as He walked, taught His disciples.  ABU0580

Another passage in St. John 18:10, was in regard to the ear and the sword. The Master replied: "In the Gospels the Christ said to His disciples, 'He who has no sword let him go and buy one.'"   ABU0898

After the crucifixion of Christ the few apostles who were left behind were thrown into a state of utter consternation and agitation. Peter who was the chief of Apostles denied the Lord thrice   ABU0645

Jesus Christ, quoting the words of Isaiah, has said, 'They have eyes, but do not see; they have ears, but do not hear; they have hearts, but do not understand -- yet I will grant them healing.'  ABU3746

Our Lord said the Muhammadans were accustomed to think Mahomet the greater because of his title "Seal of the Prophets," but in the time of Jesus spirituality and spiritual life was far greater.   ABU3507

Someone asked about Christ healing the blind, and 'Abdu'l-Baha quoted Isaiah saying that they have eyes but do not see, ears but do not hear, hearts but do not understand - but I will heal them.   ABU1129

And Christ says that the owner of an orchard will not leave a withered tree in the garden but will surely cut it down and cast it into the fire, for dried wood is fit and worthy only for the fire.   AB00739

In the Koran are many things referring to Christ not mentioned in the Gospel. It is said that Christ took a bit of clay and shaped it into the form of a bird. Then he blew upon it, and it flew away.   ABU2869

Similarly, Christ at the beginning of establishing spiritual law and arranging teachings, education and counsels, withdrew for forty days from physical requirements and abstained from food and drink.  AB03269

The Son of Mary - upon Him be the peace of God and the peace of His Prophets - observed a fisherman engaged in catching fish. He said: "Put down thy net and come, that I may make thee a fisher of men."   BH03946

Baha'o'llah established Christ in the East. He has praised Christ, honored Christ, exalted Him, called Him the Word of God, the Spirit of God, raised the Name of Christ to supreme summits of glorification.  ABU3240

"Verily the teachings which flowed from the lips of His Highness Christ were spiritual, celestial, heavenly and the cause of the eternal life; therefore it is explained as heavenly food and the divine table."  AB02148

The Christians now think that when Christ declared Himself that all the people ran and kissed his Hands and Feet. On the contrary, He had always to hide Himself, while the Blessed Perfection never hid Himself.   ABU1055

His Holiness Christ delivered the Cause of God in the wilderness of the Holy Land, with bare feet, old clothing, thirsty and hungry. Be thou follow (the example of) His Holiness Christ until thou mayst succeed.   AB04210

Jesus, son of Mary, was naught but a Messenger before whom other Messengers had passed away, and after whom came Muhammad, the Seal of the Prophets. He was but a Messenger of God and the first of them that worship.   BB00216

All the Prophets have a special name for themselves and as the name of Jesus was "Son of God" that must become a realized fact. He must be born materially and spiritually the Son of God in order to fulfill the Name.  ABU1419

The Christ reality was like unto a pure mirror and the Sun of Reality shone upon it from the Holy Horizon. Therefore, it became evident that the sun is one with regard to reality but manifesting itself in all mirrors.  AB00952

It is also proved by the statements in the Gospels that Jesus Christ had brothers. (It is understood that they did not believe in Him). The brothers were from Joseph, but Christ was from God, and Joseph was not His father.  ABU1419

when He came, came from heaven. As He says, none ascends to heaven except he who descended from heaven. And certainly Christ had come from heaven because He was the King of Heaven, though outwardly He came from Mary's womb  AB05527

Jesus Christ did not come from the world of princes or scientists. Outwardly he was but an humble artisan, his disciples simple fishermen. Why were these disciples able to do what philosophers and scientists failed to accomplish?   ABU1653

The greatness and exaltation of Christ is clear as the sun from the Books and Tablets of Baha'u'llah, and likewise in the letters of 'Abdu'l-Baha...And the Baha'i belief regarding the station of Christ is that Christ is the Word of God.   AB06723

The difference between Christ and others is this: Christ was the Spirit, others are bodies. Christ was the Sun, others are mirrors. Christ was the Truth and was bestowing Eternal Life; others are dead and are imparting deadness and negligence.  AB10306

Jesus Christ gave His life upon the cross for the unity of mankind. Those who believed in Him likewise sacrificed life, honor, possessions, family, everything, that this human world might be released from the hell of discord, enmity and strife.  ABU0126

His Holiness Christ said: The Father is in me. This we must understand through logical and scientific evidences, for if we do not conform religious principles with science and reason, they do not inspire the heart with confidence and assurance.  ABU0018

Christ appeared in this world nineteen hundred years ago to establish ties of unity and bonds of love between the various nations and different communities. He cemented together the sciences of Rome and the splendors of the civilization of Greece.  ABU0676

Christ's nobility and greatness lie not in His fatherlessness but in His divine perfections, bounties and effulgences. If Christ's greatness were due to being fatherless, then Adam would have to be greater than Christ, for he had neither father nor mother.  AB01218

As for the glorious Christ, the Word of God and Spirit of God supported by the Gospel - God sent him among a people whose necks were humbled and voices subdued under Roman authority. He breathed into them the spirit of life and revived them after death...   ABU0168

Jesus Christ was an Educator of humanity. His teachings were altruistic; His bestowal, universal. He taught mankind by the power of the Holy Spirit and not through human agency, for the human power is limited, whereas the divine power is illimitable and infinite.  ABU0293

Likewise did His Holiness Christ  - " upon Him be peace  - " He brought together such hostile and heterogeneous peoples like Greeks, Romans, Serbians, Caledonians, Assyrians and divers aliens around a single Fount and established close ties of fellowship among them.  AB00287

The only means of defense that a lamb possesses are his horns. Now the means that the Lamb of God defended himself with were his horns  - " in other words, his utterances, his teachings. From the spiritual standpoint he 'saved' the world with his horn  - " his Teachings.  ABU3213

All of them, even Christ, wore the crown of poverty and set their hearts on the heavenly treasure...Even Christ, who would have been the wealthiest in the world, had a bed of earth in the wilderness, at night had a lamp of celestial stars, and food of plants of the earth.  AB00334

Have you ever thought that the one heavenly song which issued from the sweet mouth of Christ found millions of echoes in the hearts of men and women throughout ages and cycles and has grown into thousand rich accompaniments? That was a real melody; all others were imitations.   ABU1100

The Christ exhorted men to be kind. The Christians are fighting and killing one another, leading their young men into war, shedding blood, destroying dwellings, causing mothers to lose their sons and children their fathers. What has all this to do with the teachings of Christ?  ABU0207

It is said that Christ (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) one day passed by a dead animal with the disciples. One said, "How putrid this animal is!" Another said, "What an ugly appearance it has!" Another said, "How repulsive it is!" Christ said, "Look at its teeth, how white they are!"  AB01933

Consider His Holiness Christ: He appeared in the world as one of the poor. He was born of a lowly family. All the apostles of Christ were of humble birth and His followers were of the poorest in the community. This testimony of Christ of the exaltation of the poor ones in the sight of God is sufficient.  ABU0933

Through Christianity the greatness of Moses became known among all nations. Through the instrumentality of Christ, through the translation of the New Testament, the little volume of the Gospel, the Old Testament, the Torah, has been translated into six hundred languages and spread everywhere in the world.  ABU0015

So long as He dwelt in the corporeal world He was despised and reviled by the weakest nation on the earth, the Jews, who saw it fit that a crown of thorns be placed upon His blessed brow. But after His ascension the gem-studded crowns of all the kings became humble and submissive before that crown of thorns.  AB01528

When the Word of God, His Holiness Christ and His apostles upraised the flag of guidance and the Light of Reality dawned, all the people abused and scorned them, as the texts of the Gospel bear testimony to this fact; nay rather, they spat on the holy countenance of Jesus Christ and ridiculed, insulted and vilified Him.   AB01098

Until Christ, Who was one of the Israelites and had neither armies nor wealth, single and alone, reestablished their ancient majesty and glory. He subjugated Rome and humbled Greece. Though He was but a single individual from among the Israelites, He established eternal glory and promoted the reality of Moses and the Torah.  ABU0032

Christ's sovereignty was an everlasting sovereignty - not like the sovereignty of Napoleon, or Genghis Khan, or Hannibal. Christ's sovereignty was spiritual sovereignty, eternal sovereignty, sovereignty of conscience. His dominions were hearts; He reigned in hearts, not in dust, and His sovereignty endures forever without end.  ABU0103

As ye have heard of the former times, when Christ - "glory be to Him! - "appeared, a storm of trials arose, afflictions appeared, the winds of tests blew, the thunder of temptation descended and hosts of people (Pharisees) surrounded the houses of the friends; then the weak ones were shaken and were misled after once being guided.  AB00875

His Holiness Christ taught that when a man's enemy smites him on one cheek he must turn the other also, and that he must say a prayer for those who curse him, and that he must return good for evil. His Holiness Christ was the essence of love; but his followers have shown hatred and rancor. He promulgated life; they have caused death.  ABU0219

Jesus Christ established the religion of God through love. His sovereignty is everlasting. Napoleon overthrew governments in war and bloodshed. His dominion passed away; he himself was dethroned. Bonaparte destroyed human life; Christ was a Savior. Bonaparte controlled the physical bodies of men; Christ was a conqueror of human hearts.  ABU0147

Concerning what thou didst mention about the Spirit [Christ], the Most Exalted Pen doth at this moment testify that all His acts - whether sitting or standing, sleeping or waking, moving or still, speaking or silent - whatsoever proceeded from that Manifestation, all were proof and were distinguished above the deeds of all who dwell on earth.   BH00785


They said: "The people are very heedless. They must be made to understand by force how agitated people became in the time of Christ - even Peter denied Him three times. But in this Most Great Cause, the companions and loved ones remained so firm and steadfast that they gave up their lives dancing and stamping their feet in the field of sacrifice"  ABU2242

Christ educated and developed mankind universally. He rescued nations and peoples from the bondage of superstition and idolatry. He summoned them all to the knowledge of the oneness of God. They were dark, they became illumined; they were material, they became spiritual; earthly they were, they became heavenly. He enlightened the world of morality.  ABU1034

As to thy question concerning Christ: Know thou, He was perfect in respect of spirit as well as body. His material (body) was a perfect body in every respect; none of His material conditions were imperfect at all, inasmuch as imperfection is contrary to perfection. His heavenly condition was also a perfect one, comprising all the divine perfections.  AB02292

Amongst such benefactors of the human race was His Holiness Jesus Christ. Although outwardly he was poor he possessed the treasures of the Kingdom; although he was humble yet he was the Sovereign of the realm of hearts. Through the light of his commands Europe emerged out of the darkness of idolatry and ignorance. Christ was an ensample to all humanity.   ABU2338

Christ, single and alone, without schooling or outward education and trained to labor in the shop of a carpenter, appeared in the world at the time when the Jewish nation was in the greatest abasement. This radiant Youth, without wealth, power of armies or prestige, rescued the Jews who believed on Him from tyranny and degradation and lifted them to the highest plane of development and glory.   ABU0057


In the days of Jesus Christ, the Syrians were (before His Prophethood) as the Jews had been in Pharaoh's time. But Christ's teachings again changed everything. All the regions were in a veil of darkness and ignorance, but when the Sun of Jesus shone forth from the horizon of the Unseen World, then all things were changed from ignorance to knowledge; from darkness to light through His instrumentality.   ABU0333

Thus the Jews had traditions about Jesus, and the Christians exalt him much. But we should look to the personality of Jesus as we ourselves see it. If we find that the perfections of God, the graces and inspirations of God, appear in him and in his teachings,- that these are clearly shown forth,- this should suffice us. Now we perceive that Jesus was a world-educator; therefore we acknowledge his greatness.  ABU0524

Consider. Investigate. Examine. Search. You will be surprised to find, for instance, that in the Koran, the bible of the Mohammedans, there is praise offered His Holiness Christ that cannot be surpassed. Explicitly is it stated that His Holiness Christ was the word of truth; that His Holiness Christ was the spirit of God; that His Holiness Christ was born of the Holy Spirit; that His Holiness Christ was radiant.   ABU0035

That sweet Being Jesus Christ one night offered up this prayer: O Lord! I commune with Thee from a place such as this, where my bed is the dust of the earth and my food the grass of the fields and my night lamp the stars of heaven. Yet who is there richer than I? For Thou vouchsafed unto me what the rich and the wise are deprived of having; Thou hast granted me what Thou did not give unto the princes, the kings and the nobles."  AB03647

The title of the son is not as great as the title of the Word, because in the old Testament all the Israelitish people are called the sons of God and even God addressing David says  - " thou art my son. On the other hand no divine Messenger is called the Word except Christ. The station of the Word is so great that it is [recorded] in the first chapter of St John:- In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God and the Word was God.  ABU2893

Hast thou not seen how Christ, radiant and alone, with no helper, assistant, intimate friend or supporter, achieved divine conquests in Western realms, causing their peoples and nations to bow in submission and humility before a Word that appeared from the Orient? He was like a sun that rose from its dawning-place and shed its light upon those vast regions and distant lands. Neither the barriers of nations nor the might of states could resist His conquests.  AB00192

Consider Christ: how that marvelous expression of unity bestowed education and ethical training upon the Roman, Greek, Egyptian, Syrian and Assyrian nations and welded together a people from them in a permanent and indissoluble bond. These nations were formerly at enmity and in a state of continual hostility and strife. He cemented them together, caused them to agree, conferred tranquillity upon humanity and established the foundations of human welfare throughout the world.  ABU0280

Consider Christ: when the Jews put Him to death, this martyrdom appeared so insignificant to them that they made no mention of it in their books. Yet because the aforementioned sign existed in Christ's being, it did not remain hidden beneath the earth, and thou canst observe what revolution it created in the world. Although Christ shunned bloodshed, observe how the Master dealeth with all people with such forbearance and kindness, and behold how great His influence shall be.  BHU0023

They say that one day Christ - "may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - "passed by a dead animal with His disciples. One said, "How fetid this animal is!" Another said, "What an ugly appearance it has!" Another said, "How repulsive it is!" Christ said, "Look at its teeth, how white they are!" Observe that Christ saw none of that animal's defects but searched until He noticed that its teeth were white. He saw only that whiteness of its teeth, overlooking its decay, fetidness, and ugly appearance.   ABU0420

As Christ desired that this custom instituted by John be practiced by all at that time, He Himself submitted to it, that souls might be awakened and that the law which had issued from the former religion might be fulfilled. For even though this custom was instituted by John, it represented in reality the purification of repentance which has been practiced in all the divine religions. It is not that Christ was in need of baptism, but He submitted to it because at that time this action was praiseworthy and acceptable before God and presaged the glad tidings of the Kingdom.  AB00674

Christ was raised among the people of Israel, who lived under Roman rule. Now, in those days the Romans were world-renowned for their attainments in every field of human civilization, and so it would not be a cause of great wonder if an eloquent utterance or a novel teaching were to issue from Christ. Baha'u'llah, by contrast, appeared in Persia, where useful sciences were entirely lacking, except insofar as religious laws and theological studies were concerned. And thus the appearance of these divine teachings, of these mighty and momentous signs, from such an individual and in such a land, is indeed cause for wonder.  AB00267

The ten commandments were sanctioned by Jesus Christ, and His first order was, "Go and fulfil these commandments." When one of the rich men came saying, "I want to be one of your disciples," Christ told him to follow the ten commandments. The rich man said he knew them and that he would like something superior to them. So Christ said, "Go and give all thy wealth to the poor." The rich man pondered over His words, and went away because he could not give up his riches. Afterwards Christ said: "It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of Heaven." We see here that Christ renewed the ten commandments.   ABU0557

At the time of His ascension, Christ had raised up twelve men and four women. There were to be sure a few others beside these, but they had not reached the station of certitude. And among these twelve men, one became His sworn enemy: Judas Iscariot, who, notwithstanding his position as the chief of the Apostles, arose to have Him killed. The most prominent among the remaining eleven was Peter, and even he failed to stand firm in the face of trials, since, according to the explicit text of the Gospel, he thrice denied Christ at the hour of His martyrdom, to the point of entirely recanting his faith in the last instance. It was only after the cock crowed that he was reawakened and made contrite and repentant.  AB00267

Christ -- this single and unique Personage -- appeared amongst these despised and degraded people, reflecting a divine power and the potency of the Holy Spirit. He unified the various peoples and nations of the world, brought them together in fellowship and agreement and gathered them beneath the overshadowing protection of one Word. His prestige and mention were not confined to the children of Israel alone, who were at that time a limited race and people, but His spiritual power had also permeated and united great influential nations who had been warlike and hostile, such as the Romans, Greeks, Egyptians, Chaldeans, Syrians and Assyrians. He dispelled their hostility, healed their hatred, made them a united people, and by His Word created the utmost love amongst them so that they advanced immeasurably in the degrees of education and human perfection, thereby attaining a never-ending glory.   ABU0094

When Christ ascended, only a small number had become believers and were assured, and the greatest of the apostles was Peter the renowned. Despite this, he denied Christ three times. But observe the Cause of the Blessed Beauty - at the time of His ascension, hundreds of thousands of souls were gathered under the banner of certainty and were in complete steadfastness and firmness. The proof of this is that hundreds upon hundreds hastened to the field of martyrdom with utmost joy and gladness and sacrificed their lives and property...Christ resisted a small band from among the Jewish people and was mostly hidden in wilderness and desert, while the Blessed Beauty arose openly and visibly against all nations and governments. Christ did not write even a letter to Herod and Pilate who were two governors of the Holy Land, but the Blessed Beauty sent sufficient and complete proclamations to all the kings of the world.   AB01592

If you gather together all the teachings of Christ they will not exceed ten pages. If you gather together the teachings of the Blessed Perfection they will exceed sixty or seventy volumes. Those of Christ have no new laws, except the regulation about divorce. Those of the Blessed Perfection contain many instructions. The greatest teachings of Jesus Christ are such as these: Love you enemies; bless those who curse you and revile you; when struck on the right cheek turn the left. Of course, these commands are right, and what is contained in the world can not equal them in value; but these instructions refer particularly to individuals, and do not deal with nations. They are personal, not universal. Those of the Blessed Perfection are for all nations, like the injunction for universal peace, although even these apply to individuals as well as to nations. The instructions of Christ were heard by but few persons, and they were not fulfilled during His lifetime. There were really eleven persons who believed, although Christians themselves say that there were a hundred and twenty. The teachings of the Blessed Perfection were spread throughout the world during His lifetime. Jesus Christ Himself did not see during His life the fulfillment of His commands, for He alone fulfilled them in His time; but the fulfillment of the numerous commands of the Blessed Perfection commenced during His time and was witnessed by Him. The reputation of Christ did not extend from Nazareth to Acca, and it was not until after His ascension that His doctrines spread. The reputation of the Blessed Perfection extended throughout the world. Jesus Christ did not send a letter even to the chief of a village; the Blessed Perfection sent letters to all the kings of the earth.   ABU0557

Know verily that the reign of Jesus was a spiritual reign, penetrative in the hearts and the spirits and not ever the bodies, rocks and earth.  AB03882

Christ is the Word. Now what may this mean? The sign of the Word of Christ is the Divine Virtues: the sign of the Messianic Word is the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. The Word means Divine Perfection, Heavenly Bestowals.   ABU1345

Therefore, as Christ conveyed the perfect meaning of divine reality and embodied independent significance, He was the Word. He was as the station of reality compared to the station of metaphor. The reality of Jesus was the perfect meaning, the Christhood in Him which in the Holy Books is symbolized as the Word.   ABU0385


Do not look upon the Christians of today. The Christians are today submerged in the sea of imitation.  ABU0089

In the time of the manifestation of Christ the Romans and the Greeks thought that the Cause was especially for the Israelites; they thought they had no need for it because they saw that, according to appearances, they possessed a perfect civilization and they thought that they did not need the instructions of Christ. This false supposition caused many people to be deprived of its grace.   AB03880

A friend asked how the teachings of Baha'u'llah contrasted with the teachings of Jesus Christ. "The teachings are the same." declared Abdu'l-Baha; "It is the same foundation and the same temple. Truth is one, and without division. The teachings of Jesus are in a concentrated form. Men do not agree to this day as to the meaning of many of His sayings. His teachings are as a flower in the bud. Today, the bud is unfolding into a flower! Baha'u'llah has expanded and fulfilled the teachings, and has applied them in detail to the whole world.  ABU2418

The Master said that the differences between this Revelation and that of Jesus Christ are that, in this Cycle, all the inhabitants of the world will be gathered into one nation; universal peace will prevail; bloodshed and war will cease; there will be a general language union and harmony will reach the highest state; there will be no bigotry. All will be gathered under the tent of peace.  ABU0075

Question: Are not all Christians Baha'is? Is there any difference?  Answer: When Christians act according to the teachings of Christ, they are called Baha'is. For the foundations of Christianity and the religion of Baha'u'llah are one. The foundations of all the divine Prophets and Holy Books are one. The difference among them is one of terminology only. Each springtime is identical with the former springtime. The distinction between them is only one of the calendar -- 1911, 1912 and so on. The difference between a Christian and a Baha'i, therefore, is this: There was a former springtime, and there is a springtime now. No other difference exists because the foundations are the same. Whoever acts completely in accordance with the teachings of Christ is a Baha'i. The purpose is the essential meaning of Christian, not the mere word. The purpose is the sun itself and not the dawning points. For though the sun is one sun, its dawning points are many. We must not adore the dawning points but worship the sun. We must adore the reality of religion and not blindly cling to the appellation Christianity. The Sun of Reality must be worshiped and followed. We must seek the fragrance of the rose from whatever bush it is blooming -- whether oriental or western. Be seekers of light, no matter from which lantern it shines forth. Be not lovers of the lantern. At one time the light has shone from a lantern in the East, now in the West. If it comes from North, South, from whatever direction it proceeds, follow the light.  ABU0086

those nuns who serve in hospitals work with heart and soul  ABU2425


We act in accordance with the Gospel. But we must also act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah.   ABU3267

as a Christian study particularly the New Testament   ABU3429

You see how many sects and religions appeared after Christ.  ABU2452

At the time of Christ's ascension there were eleven believers   AB05396

It took three hundred years for the Cause of Christ to be spread   ABU2595


In every world of God a new Lord's Supper is set for the faithful!   ABU3204


"It is nearly two thousand years since His holiness the Lord Christ taught this prayer to His people"  ABU3207


Christ is ever in the world of existence. He has never disappeared out of it.... Rest assured that Christ is present.   ABU3346


Observe how the seed that Christ scattered still bears fruit. That is why He said My word is like seeds scattered by the farmer's hand.  ABU1433


The Holy Sepulchre of Christ was a place for dumping all kinds of rubbish for three hundred years till St Helena came, cleared the ground and built over it a most wonderful church.  ABU2752

It is stated in the New Testament that Jesus Christ was once drinking of the fruit of the vine (juice of grapes) and said he would drink no more except in the presence of the Father.  ABU1182

Consider the Faith proclaimed by Jesus. Though it first appeared in the East, yet not until its light had been shed upon the West did the full measure of its potentialities become manifest.  AB11112

There were dissensions after the departure of Christ because there had been no Center appointed. Did Christ say to anyone, "You are the Centre of my Covenant, you are the explainer of my book?"  ABU1869

like the assembly of the Lord's Supper of Christ...Consider how the small assembly of the Lord's Supper of Christ, when confirmed by the Holy Spirit, produced such mighty results and great effects!  AB09947

At that time, they suffered blows and endured adversities, yet now the leaders of Christendom have made their present glory and tranquillity the means by which to selfishly advance their own interests.  ABU3671

From the beginning of Christianity and Islam up to the present day, no one has spoken thus, proving the validity of Christ and Muhammad in a Jewish temple and in a manner to which no one took exception.   ABU2826

Christ, in His own land, entered Jerusalem and the assemblies of the Israelites several times and gave counsels and exhortations. Consider how much importance Christian clergy later gave to this matter.   ABU1299

Of such was the spirituality of Jesus Christ. The Jews in the time of Christ were dead, having no real life, and Jesus actually wafted a new breath into their bodies. Behold what has been accomplished since!   ABU2285

Even as in the time of Jesus the Son of Mary, those who were under the shadow of Christ knew not in what shadow they dwelt, but afterwards they proved faithful. May my soul be a sacrifice for them! Yet during His own time they achieved nothing.   ABU0463

'Notwithstanding that his holiness Christ said nothing about Peter except the one word, "Thou art the rock and upon this rock I build my church," this word became cause of dispelling differences, so that whatever Peter said the others would accept.'  ABU0362

The Christian Church with its hierarchy of clerics has reversed Christ's and Paul's teaching of unity. His Holiness Christ has set the slave beside the master, and what has the Church of the 19th century said to the slavery of the Negroes of America?   ABU3038

Consider how the Cause of Christ was confirmed. How many resisted it! What mountains of obstacles were raised against it! What hostile forces sought to destroy its foundations! Yet the kings and emperors of the world could not resist its spread and establishment.   ABU1903

The teachings of Christ are forgotten. Consider that Christ commanded Peter to sheathe his sword. He also said, 'Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also'. But now, contrary to these teachings, see how Christians are killing one another.  ABU2836

For nineteen hundred years they have rung the church bell, yet they have grown neither weary nor tired. They regard the sound of copper and brass as the divine call, though it be but inanimate matter, and they hold it sacred and answer its summons, rushing forthwith to church.  ABU2067

For many years Christ taught these eternal principles in this holy land through both word and deed. He journeyed throughout Palestine, and gradually His teachings spread throughout the world. But alas, a hundred thousand times alas, that people have forgotten those divine principles.  ABU0084

It is equally false when the Christian missionaries place the whole emphasis on original sin, consider man as impure and corrupted from the time in the mother's womb, and when they, as the 'instrument of the Almighty', expect all salvation from their schooling and training of the small sinner.   ABU0376



After the lapse of time the Israelites deteriorated, and became subject to the Romans and the Greeks. Then the brilliant Star of Jesus rose from the horizon upon the Israelites, brightening the world, until all sects and creeds and nations were taught the beauty of unity. There cannot be any better proof than this that Jesus was the Word of God.  AB01160

Consider thou, at the time of Christ and after Him, how many childish attempts have been made by different persons! What claims they have advanced and what a multitude have they gathered around themselves! Even Arius attracted to himself a million and a half followers and strove and endeavoured to sow the seeds of sedition in the Cause of Christ.   AB01073

All Christians believe in Moses. They declare that He was a Man of God, the Interlocutor and Prophet of God, that His Book was the Book of God, that the people of Israel were the people of God and that all the prophets of Israel were valid and true. They offer unlimited praise, sincere eulogy, and manifest unlimited love for the religion of Moses.   ABU0094

Some imagine that the bread of the Eucharist is the reality of Christ, and that the Divinity and the Holy Spirit have descended into it and are present therein, whereas when once the Eucharist is taken, in a few minutes it is wholly disintegrated and entirely transformed. How then can such an error be conceived? I beg the forgiveness of God for such a grave delusion!  AB00329

Today the enmity and rivalry existing between the religions are over mere words. It is an established fact that the followers of all the religions believe in a reality, the benefits of which are universal; which reality is a medium between God and man. The Jews call that reality Moses, the Christians Christ, the Muslims Mohammad, the Buddhists Buddha, and the Zoroastrians Zoroaster.  ABU0018

Previously, all peoples believed that knowledge was contrary to religion, especially the Christians. Whoever pursued knowledge was said to have forsaken religion. For instance, they observed that scientific discoveries contradicted biblical texts, as the Bible is divided into several parts - one part historical, one part mathematical, the latter being from the pen of Ezra, not Moses.  ABU2335

"When I was in Jerusalem, I observed that the Christens have divided the Church of Resurrection into many sections, like a bazaar, and they are always engaged in acrimonious controversies and factional fights, while they claim Christ brought peace and salvation. Where can one find peace, and how can one be saved? Through their religious hatred for each other they have shut the door of salvation."  ABU1250

Christ was asking of His Disciples whom he was, and when Peter answered: "Thou art Christ, the son of the Living GOD". Christ wished to confirm this statement and also show that his whole religion was founded on this truth; that is why he called Peter by his name which means "Rock"; and He said: "I shall build my church on your belief, which is the true belief and the foundation of God's church."  ABU1873

The leaders allied with princes. The foundation of Christ was completely altered. They became captive to traditions. The Christian nation became captive, and leaders and princes dominated like a nightmare illness. Divine teachings were completely lost and traditions prevailed, such that every sin was forgiven by the pure essence of the leaders, and every oppression and tyranny was pardoned with a confession.  ABU0633

Rather, the meaning is that the People of the Book, that is, the Jews and Christians, acknowledge Christ's existence before His ascension, but differ in that the Jews believe in a crucified Christ who was destroyed and lost, while Christians believe in a crucified Christ who ascended to the seat of truth with the Ever-Living, Self-Subsisting Lord. The difference concerns what happened after Christ's ascension.  AB03385

Christ said, Fast, so that you may not fall into temptation. Verily, tests withheld a great Apostle (Judas) from the Mercy of God, and made him take part in the shedding of the blood of Christ. The tests made Peter the Apostle deny Christ. The tests made the Brethren of Christ deny Him; many a just, faithful and assured souls did not endure the power of the tests but turned backward, until he reached the lowest of the low.  AB01992

The average, intelligent Westerner of today is not a Christian; he is a secular churchman. Parrot-like he may repeat the Teachings as laid down by Christ in the Gospel but he will not be ready to live up to these Commandments. Christ says:- 'Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.' But now Christian Europe is armed to the teeth ready to cut each other's throats at the slightest provocation.  ABU0843

Christianity in France was emancipated in this manner. One of the monarchs in France realized that no matter how many Christians were slain, it bore no fruit. One day he summoned his ministers and consulted [with them]. Thereupon, he announced that he bore no opposition whatsoever to Christianity. This resulted in all the people being enticed to investigate, and gradually they became Christian. In this Cause, it will also occur likewise.  ABU3657


And when the days of Moses were ended, and the light of Jesus, shining forth from the dayspring of the Spirit, encompassed the world, all the people of Israel arose in protest against Him. They clamored that He Whose advent the Bible had foretold must needs promulgate and fulfill the laws of Moses, whereas this youthful Nazarene, who laid claim to the station of the divine Messiah, had annulled the law of divorce and of the sabbath day -- the most weighty of all the laws of Moses.  BH00002

When, however, the time approached for the effulgent beauty of Muhammad to dawn upon the world, the control of Christian affairs passed into the hands of ignorant priests. Those heavenly breezes, soft-flowing from the regions of Divine grace, died away, and the laws of the great Evangel, the rock-foundation on which the civilization of the world was based, turned barren of results, this out of misuse and because of the conduct of persons who, seemingly fair, were yet inwardly foul.  AB00004

Christ proclaimed the Glory of Moses and spread His fame far wide throughout the East throughout the West. He propounded the basic principle of His Divine Law, and though the Torah was before Christ confined to Palestine, yet by the wondrous Grace of Jesus, it hath now spread to the uttermost parts of the earth whilst the fame of Moses and of the Prophets of Israel hath become renowned throughout the world. Manifest, indeed, is the Spirit of Love that Christ hath thus shone for Moses!   AB02329

We observe that Christ accomplished more than Moses in establishing an ordered society and brought diverse peoples and faiths under the shadow of the Word of God. Thus there remains no doubt that these were Prophets, for the purpose of prophethood is the education of humanity. Christ was a solitary individual, yet He educated these mighty nations. He brought peace to warring peoples; the savage became civilized; the oppressors donned the garment of justice; human morals made extraordinary progress.  ABU0039

In the days of Christ, when the dawn of guidance broke and the lights of the Kingdom spread across the horizons, Caiaphas and Annas who were pillars of the Mosaic religion, along with all the Pharisees, became blind, deaf and dumb. They did not behold the lights of the Kingdom at all, did not hear the call of Christ, and did not open their lips in God's praise. They were deprived of the ocean of divine gifts and remained barred from entry into the Kingdom. Indeed, they issued the death warrant for that Sun of the Kingdom.  AB06588


After Christ, Arius, the Patriarch of Alexandria, created a new sect and was so eloquent, bold, articulate and powerful that he brought one and a half million souls under his influence, even the Emperor Constantine. But since he had deviated from Christ's Covenant, he was ultimately effaced and destroyed. That Covenant was Christ's words to Peter: Thou art the rock, and upon this rock I will build my church. This is a tradition related by some of the apostles from Christ's words. Despite being merely an implied covenant, it preserved Christian unity for eight hundred years.  AB00838


As to what you asked about the verse revealed in the Tablet to the Pope, these expressions are allusions to the words of the Son [Christ] that were mentioned. In one place He says: "And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven. But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." And in another place it is mentioned: "Light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God."   BH00972

The Cause of Christ (may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him) remained obscure for three hundred years, and many books and numerous works were written by the learned ones, even the philosophers of that time, against His Holiness, and there remained no accusation they did not make, no calumny they did not utter, and no slander they did not allow. Even one of the philosophers of that time wrote a book like the Tir-i-Shihab of Haji Muhammad Karim Khan (may God forgive him and pardon him). Among its contents was the claim that this Christ never existed, that at one time in Jerusalem a thief was crucified, and that Peter and Paul, after some time, conceived the idea of establishing leadership for themselves, named that thief Christ, and founded this religion and faith. The existence of Christ (God forbid) was, from beginning to end, a complete fabrication.  AB11634

In the days of Decius, Emperor of the Romans, which transpired after Christ, Decius harbored intense hatred and enmity toward Christ and the Christians. Just as in the time of Christ, Christians were greatly persecuted, being massacred twelve times. In France, the king of that realm was exceedingly hostile to Christians, being boundlessly antagonistic. He strove mightily to uproot Christianity but could not. At last he became enlightened, and gathering his ministers, deputies, and sons, he said: Gentlemen, you know how opposed I was to the Christians. Night and day I labored to cut off their roots. I attempted every means and left no measure untried, but now I see this standard is bringing down our standard and cutting off our roots. We are being obliterated and destroyed. Therefore, before this standard overthrows our standard, it is better that we submit to it.  ABU0175

The meaning [of speaking in tongues] is that the Apostles taught in a spiritual tongue, a tongue that embraces all tongues. For the Word of the Kingdom comprises spiritual meanings and divine mysteries, and whoso attains to this Word will find the realities and mysteries of creation to be clear and evident. The divine inner meanings are the all-encompassing reality of all tongues. Therefore, the Holy Spirit endowed the Apostles with the tongue of the Kingdom, and they spoke with all peoples as if in their own tongue; that is, whenever they conversed with a person of any faith or nation, it was as though they were speaking his own tongue. Were it otherwise, there are at present more than a thousand known languages and it would be fair to expect that the Apostles would have written at least one Gospel in the language of one of the other nations. It is, however, well established that the Gospel was written only in Hebrew and in Greek. No Gospel was even written in Latin, though that was at the time the official language of the land. Yet, as the Apostles were not proficient in Latin, no Gospel was written in that language.  AB05412

Christ counseleth these people to peace and tranquility. He saith: "Put up thy sword into the sheath." These Christian nations wage war against Christ. Any Christian who opposeth the teachings of Christ hath risen in opposition to Him. These swords strike at Christ. These bullets are aimed at Christ. Today, whosoever behaveth contrary to the commandments and counsels of the Blessed Beauty wageth war against the Blessed Beauty. For example, the Blessed Beauty commandeth that one must be truthful. If one is not truthful, but is a liar, he hath opposed the Blessed Beauty. Now the Christian nations are, all of them, warring against Christ. Christ desired to illumine the world with the lights of peace and reconciliation; these seek to darken it with the gloom of war and strife. Thus are they all in loss. There is no victor; all are vanquished. When thou lookest with the eye of truth, thou seest that they are all destroying one another; all are subdued. Christ so sacrificed Himself and shed His blood that love and fellowship might be established among these hearts, that these souls who have taken shelter under His shadow might find love and fellowship with one another. He sacrificed His life for this, that the bonds of love might be strengthened. If we war with one another, assuredly His pure blood hath been shed in vain. But they are in the depths of heedlessness; the labors of Christ have gone to waste. Strange it is that they call themselves Christians, utter the name of Christ, read the Gospel, yet Christ is clear of them. Were Christ to descend from heaven and were they to say "These are Thy people," He would say: "God forbid! These are My people in word only, but in truth they are the people of Caiaphas." These holy Manifestations of God are like gardeners. They till the soil and remove every weed and thorn, but it is in the nature of the earth to bring forth weeds and thorns; if left to itself, there is no doubt that it would become a wilderness instead of a garden. ABU0954
