
When Christianity was founded there were no chimes. This innovation was introduced after 300 years. At the Nicene Council they approved the introduction of church bells.  ABU1042



Some people acclaim Christ as God; others regard Him as the Word of God; still others, as the Messenger of God. These differences have led to contention and strife. Thus, instead of spirituality, there prevails enmity among the people and instead of harmony, disharmony.  ABU2563

"Jesus Christ while on earth established the Lord's Supper at which the material food was simple, but the spiritual food abundant and eternal."  ABU2954

There is no such thing as 'Vicarious Atonement' as held and taught by the theologians and churches.  ABU2477

The Christian Church with its hierarchy of clerics has reversed Christ's and Paul's teaching of unity.   ABU3038

Christ said: Put thy sword in the scabbard, they have drawn it. Christ commanded: Pray for those who spitefully treat you; they kill their own enemies.   ABU0426

The Spirit (Christ) said "I am the Anointed One of my Lord," meaning "the Hand of Divine bestowal has anointed me and the Spirit of God has quickened me."   AB04279

Arius was very eloquent. He proved the existence of something that did not exist. But the Ocean of Christ sent forth a wave and cast ashore Arius and all.   ABU2509

[In the evening some clergymen announced a meeting to observe the crucifixion of Christ.] "Their speeches in the meeting will be to the effect that Christ sacrificed Himself in order to redeem us from our sins. But they do not understand the inner meaning." After the meeting He spoke extensively on this subject, saying that the redemption of sins depends on our acting upon the admonitions of Christ, and the martyrdom of Christ was to cause us to attain praiseworthy morals and supreme stations.  ABU3144

After the departure of Christ many appeared who were instrumental in creating factions, schisms and discussions. It became difficult to know which one was following the right path. One of these disturbers was Nestorius, a Syrian, who proclaimed that Christ was not a Prophet of God. This created a division and sect called the Nestorians. The Catholics declared Jesus Christ to be the Son of God, even pronouncing Him to be Deity itself. The Protestants announced the doctrine that Christ embodied two elements: the human and the divine.  ABU0412


That is what Jesus Christ means when He says that from the various parts of the earth nations shall flock to the Kingdom, but the children of the Kingdom shall become outcasts.  ABU0585


The Mohamadan theologians claim that Mohamad was the fulfillment of the Paroclete but the Christians deny this, saying that the spirit of the Comforter descended upon the disciples on the Pentacostal Day.   ABU2092

There is a school of philosophers today in Europe who deny not only the authenticity of the Bible but who claim that there is not such a Person as Jesus Christ. This is an ideal Christ invented by the apostles.   ABU2485

The 5th Gospel which is considered noncanonical gave other history of Jesus than is contained in the Gospels of the New Testament. There were fifty gospels, but only four were accepted as genuine by the priesthood.   ABU3181

For example, the adornment of churches with images, self-mortification, abstinence, monks' habits, the lighting of candles in church, the ringing of the bell in the steeple and others. These are all from idolaters.  ABU2215



For nineteen hundred years they have rung the church bell, yet they have grown neither weary nor tired. They regard the sound of copper and brass as the divine call, though it be but inanimate matter, and they hold it sacred and answer its summons, rushing forthwith to church.  ABU2067

He spoke along these lines in detail, pointing to the Cardinal doctrines of the Church as entirely misunderstood by ministers, priests and layman alike,- such as the Creeds of Confession, Transubstantiation, Immaculate Conception, Resurrection, Atonement, Ascension and Miracles.  ABU1549

Christians believe that Christ came from heaven and returned bodily to heaven. They say He came from heaven, but they also acknowledge that He was born of Mary. It was true that, though He came by Mary, He came from heaven. They now believe that Christ will come from heaven in a cloud.  ABU2375

Christ said: "But whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also;" but He was speaking to the brethren of the way they were to live with each other, and when He told them to love their enemies, etc., He referred to their individual lives as between two people.  ABU1002


For the last ninety years the Western missionaries have gone to Orumieh. They have built schools, hospitals and other charitable institutions in order to convert people to so-called Christianity but during all this time they have not been able to attract one soul. This is because they have the machine but not the spirit.   ABU1592

All the kings of the West and emperors of the world, in reinforcing the throne of sovereignty, argue based on this statement of Peter the Apostle who said "All authority is from God" - meaning every government is by divine decree. For this reason they sanctify their royal throne and consider their sovereignty a heavenly matter.  AB04277



These teachings of Christ are the cause of enlightenment, the cause of life in the world, the cause of peace and prosperity in the world. But alas, what benefit when we see how much bloodshed occurs, how many souls were killed during this time by Christian nations? In the Protestant and Catholic conflict, according to history, 900,000 souls were killed.   ABU0531

When educated people see the priests taking bread and wine in their hands, blowing a few breaths over them and saying that the bread and wine are now changed into the flesh and blood of Christ, or hear them saying that by making a confession before a priest their sins are pardoned, they will begin to despair of their religion and become totally irreligious.  ABU2993

The Supper of the Lord which His Highness the Spirit (Christ) ate with the apostles was a heavenly supper and not one of material bread and water, for material objects have no connection with spiritual objects. As at that time material food was also present, therefore the leaders of the religion of Christ thought that it was material food which was changed into spiritual food.  AB07479



In the Bible polygamy is not forbidden. Christ prohibited divorce only. In the first century the Christians used to marry several wives. Even Paul says that the religious leaders ('elder') must have one wife only. More than one is not permitted, as otherwise he will be distracted. From this it may be inferred that they used to marry more than one. Monogamy was instituted by the Church Council, for this was the habit of the old times.  ABU2190

If we only understand and follow the Ten Commandments of Sinai from the Old Testament -praised be the Holy Man Moses - this holy Book will have done its work on us; and if we only understand, keep and follow the Beatitudes and the Lord's Prayer from the New Testament of our Lord Christ - praise and glory be to Him for all eternity - we shall have drawn sufficient honey from the granite rock of divine values for this life and eternity!   ABU0193



Until the seventh Council, there were no pictures. They said: 'The mass of the people are accustomed to idols of gold and silver. Now there is nothing in the church. It is empty and looks bare to them. It is better that one should put pictures of Christ, the disciples and Mary in the church, so that it may be more attractive -- an empty church has no attraction. It has for the learned ones, but not for the mass of people.'  ABU1407

Indeed, one of the chief reasons for irreligion among people is that the leaders of religion, such as the Catholic priests, take a little bread and wine, blow a breath over it and then say that the bread is the flesh of Christ and the wine is the blood of Christ. Of course, a man of understanding would not accept these dogmas and would say that if this bread and wine is turned into the flesh and blood of Christ by the breath of a priest, then the priest must be superior to Christ.   ABU1968

These people believe that the Logos of that peerless Essence had been made flesh. That is, lahut had become nasut. And this is the present belief of the Catholics who claim that the Word was incarnated and that this Being [i.e. Jesus Christ] is God Himself. They maintain, "Prophethood is temporal"; meaning the body of Christ is derived from the Invisible Essence and has been materialized. These people [i.e. the Christians] think that the Divine Reality has been incarnated and appears in three parts, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost.   ABU0398

The Holy See has consistently opposed the expansion of knowledge, to such a degree that in Europe it has come to be held that religion is the enemy of science and that science is the destroyer of the foundations of religion. Consider the admonitions of Christ and investigate the customs and conduct of the Popes: is there any resemblance between the admonitions of the former and the administration of the latter? We do not like to find fault, but the pages of the history of the Vatican are indeed astounding. Our meaning is that the instructions of Christ are one thing and the conduct of the papal government is quite another: they do not agree in the slightest.   AB00256

