Dr. Wilson, a priest in Iran who is heedless and hostile to the Cause of God, has authored a book to mislead people  AB02955

Behold again, the Christians are expecting the stars to fall and Christ to appear in the clouds, yet these are but symbols. They are awaiting a Christ from a heaven that does not exist.  ABU0875

Although Christ explicitly states in the Gospel "I have come from heaven," while outwardly His physical form was born of Mary, yet Christians still await His physical body to descend from the literal heaven in His second coming.   ABU1434

It is unjust and unfair to the wonderful Nazarene to ever 'correspond' the deeds and actions of these Christians with His celestial Teachings. They must correspond his Teaching with His own life and the lives of those who truly walked in his footsteps and they will find that one is the embodiment of another.  ABU0843


Consider thou that Abdul Baha is proving the validity of Christ through divine argument, brilliant traces and infinite outpouring, so that the Christians may attain to the Truth of His Highness Christ, and other nations likewise may realize His greatness. Nevertheless these Christians dislike me very much and turn away from me. How heedless are they, and how submerged are they in worldly vanities. Of Christ they know nothing but a name, and His teachings they realize not even a trace. They worship His Name and not His Spirit.  AB05481

Likewise in this age of the dawning of the Light of horizons, the Christian priests have closed their eyes and remained deprived of witnessing the lights of the incomparable Beauty. Like the Pharisees, they seek pretexts and raise objections, desiring to increase people's veils.   AB02038

For the last ninety years the Western missionaries have gone to Orumieh. They have built schools, hospitals and other charitable institutions in order to convert people to so-called Christianity but during all this time they have not been able to attract one soul. This is because they have the machine but not the spirit. In Tiberias the missionaries have built a modern hospital and pharmacy. The doctor has been serving there for 32 years. At least every year 1000 Jews enter the hospital and go out healed, but none of them becomes really Christian. The doctor used to tell me I am at my wits end in thinking out the reason of the success of the Baha'is in the propagation of their teachings. Without any means at their hands they succeed to make these Jews Baha'is but with all these hospitals and schools and charity we don't seem to succeed. Why is this? I told him Think for one moment over this singular fact. The Jews who became Christians in the apostolic and after apostolic age were not attracted to the Christian doctrine by hospitals etc. On the contrary, they were beaten, persecuted and killed. Notwithstanding these things they accepted Christ. Why was this? Because those early teachers possessed the "heavenly power”. With that power they were enabled to carry the gospel into distant lands. Now in this day the Baha'is are teaching the people with the same divine Power. They are baptized with the power of the Holy Spirit, have forgotten ego and are soaring toward the Kingdom of sanctity. The most efficient capital of the Baha'i teacher is the divine power. Through that alone he can conquer the cities of the hearts. ABU1592

It is clearly shown from the thirteenth verse of this chapter that the Christians are mistaken in believing that these promises speak of the descent of the Holy Spirit. Only a man can be indicated by the thirteenth verse, and from the fifteenth we see that He is to be a Manifestation of the Spirit from the same source.  ABU0560

When his holiness Christ appeared, the Jews said: 'We have enough water in our vases. We do not need the fountain of Christ. We have been blessed with many prophets during the Jewish history. These prophets have been the divine Cup-bearers. We have quaffed the pure water from their hands. Are we going to run after this new spring?'   ABU0737

Thou hast questioned how thou canst accept this divine cause, for thou art a member of the Church: (Know thou) in the day of the Manifestation of Christ, many souls became portionless and deprived (from the favor of God) because they were members of the Holy of Holies in Jerusalem. According to that membership, they became veiled from that brilliant Beauty.   AB03738

Yet, notwithstanding this, the Pharisees fancied that Christ was an enemy of Moses, that He destroyed His Law and overthrew the edifice thereof. Ponder and reflect, how unjust they were, how grievously they misjudged Him! Now, too, His Holiness Baha'u'llah, hath far and wide proclaimed the Splendor, the Glory, the Majesty of Christ, and yet the unjust still believe it not!   AB02329

A group of Christian missionaries turned toward that remote area for successive years and persisted in their call, clinging to great means such as schools, educational institutions and hospitals, and fulfilled the hopes of those with influence through the expenditure of funds. Yet until now they have not succeeded in spreading their message, and not a single Muslim man or woman has entered their fold.  But for this mighty Cause and momentous matter, despite storms and tempests, hurricanes and thunderbolts of tests and trials, people are entering into it in troops throughout all regions - east and west, south and north. Can there be any greater proof than this in the eyes of the fair-minded who have abandoned prejudice and recognized the gift of the Hidden One of manifold favors?  AB04160

All monks and priests, indeed all Christians, were supplicating and lamenting in their churches, awaiting the appearance of the Kingdom of God and yearning for the Day of Dawning. Yet when the promised Beauty shed His radiance upon the horizons, they remained deprived. Like the Pharisees who awaited the appearance of Christ but remained deprived when He appeared, and even arose to extinguish that Lamp.  AB00759

Inasmuch as the Christian divines have failed to apprehend the meaning of these words, and did not recognize their object and purpose, and have clung to the literal interpretation of the words of Jesus, they therefore became deprived of the streaming grace of the Muhammadan Revelation and its showering bounties. The ignorant among the Christian community, following the example of the leaders of their faith, were likewise prevented from beholding the beauty of the King of glory  BH00002

Even though in a Jewish Synagogue I proved that Christ was the Logos of God and that Muhammad was God's Messenger, nevertheless these unfaithful priests in America have spread the claim that the Baha'is are the enemies of Christ. This is despite the fact that, until now, no one had been able to prove that Jesus was God's Logos and Spirit in a Jewish Synagogue. Consider how unfair they are. Our lives, our spirits, our souls are all fleeting before the station of Christ or that of Muhammad's, and we long to sacrifice ourselves in Their path.   ABU0592

Just what the Jews did in the time of Jesus, the Christians are doing now. They are looking for the prophecies of Jesus to be fulfilled according to the letter, and are expecting the stars to fall from the heavens, before His coming, - yet their own men of science have proved that the sun is infinitely larger than the earth, and also many of the stars. If these were to fall upon this little earth, conceive what the effect would be! Imagine a huge mountain falling upon a tiny atom! What part of the atom would remain. Jesus also said that He would come when they were sleeping! How could this possible be after the stars had fallen from heaven, and in like manner He would return from heaven and would appear again from heaven,- and now the Christians are expecting Him to appear from the atmosphere, where it is known, there is nothing. Jesus who said, "I came from heaven", appeared from a place called Nazareth, and from His mother, Mary, - in such wise, then, must we expect His second appearance to be.  ABU0378

The spirituality of the Spirit [Jesus] adorned the world of the Gospel, yet its people are heedless, walking in the wilderness of error and sleeping on the couch of negligence. They have not awakened from the trumpet blast, nor have they risen from the graves of their desires. BH00722

Concerning what you wrote about certain followers of Christ - may the spirit of the worlds be sacrificed for Him - after it was presented before the Most Holy Court, He said: "Today Christ is hastening and speaking in the desert of longing, yet His followers are seen to be deprived, save whom God willeth. It is very difficult for those souls to turn to the Most Exalted Horizon and to be detached from what they possess in favor of what God possesseth. Most of those souls are observed to be like the people of the Qur'an, manifesting vain imaginings, speaking of vain imaginings, and returning to vain imaginings. It is strange that certain souls have turned and continue to turn to the unseemly words of those deluded ones. By God's life! They possess nothing worthy of attention or hearing. They have not had nor do they have any word worthy of being heard."  BH00089
