To bathe oneself is a great bounty. Near the army barracks in 'Akka there existed a public bath which was in a state of ruin. For the sake of the Blessed Beauty, I had it repaired. But after leaving the barracks, the simple matter of bathing became increasingly difficult for the Blessed Beauty until I borrowed a sum of money and repaired the bath in the House of 'Abbud. The water could be warmed up in half an hour, and the convenience of the bath brought great joy to the Blessed Beauty.  ABU2580

the believers of God must ever strive to clothe their spiritual bodies with the garment of the virtue of God, the robe of the fear of God, and the vesture of the love of God. These robes will never become threadbare. They will never be out of fashion. Their market values do not fluctuate. They are always negotiable and ever on demand. They are the means of the adornment of the temple of man and women. But the outward raiment must be also clean and immaculate, so that the outer may be a faint expression of the inner. Cleanliness is one of the fundamental laws of this religion.  ABU0727

Even though some things are earth-bound, they have great effect on the soul, such as cleanliness or a good voice. Voice is no more than airwaves that reach one's ear and cause the vibration of the eardrums. Yet, consider its profound effect on the spirit. Similarly, cleanliness effects the soul.  ABU1548

Cleanliness and purity are among the requirements of faith. When one's garments are clean, one becomes refined and attaineth unto spirituality.  ABU3004

Therefore purify what ye wear with water as soon as ye are able, that ye may find the mercy of your Lord within yourselves and then be thankful.  BB00004

Praise be to God that you have succeeded in establishing a bathhouse according to the teachings of the Lord of all beings, and have constructed a bath of utmost cleanliness, orderliness and purity. Indeed, you are the first person in Iran who has implemented this ordinance and established this institution. Therefore, you are deserving of praise from the Supreme Concourse and worthy of the glance of favor from the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB04695

Tea must be like this: good sugar, excellent tea, purified water, clean cup and in every way neat and organized. Otherwise, it is better not to drink it.   ABU3127

The seminal fluid which is the substance of human existence was considered by the Shi'ih divines as unclean filth, but this was not so in the law of the Prophet [Muhammad].  AB10237

"Cleanse your houses, O people, and wash your garments of whatsoever is abhorrent unto God. Thus doth the All-Knowing counsel you. We love refinement in all conditions."  BH05195


you should keep your bodies, your clothing, your possessions, your effects, your food and your drink as clean as you are able.  BB00035


"It is well expressed that cleanliness is godliness; because this body is the spiritual temple of the Almighty. It must be kept clean and pure. Physical and spiritual cleanliness are intimately associated with each other."  ABU2264


Even though cleanliness is related to worldly affairs, yet its effect is manifested in the soul. Now the Cause of God is not established, but when it is, you will see that cleanliness and refinement is one of the foundations of God's religion.  ABU1548

Fear ye God and cleanse your bodies, and shun all things unclean, and purify your garments and your souls in water, that ye may be God-fearing. Use ye perfume, then rose water, then whatsoever beareth a pleasant fragrance   BB00056

Among physical conditions in the world of existence that have connection with and influence upon spiritual stations is cleanliness, refinement and purity. When thou enterest a place which is pleasant and clean, thou canst inhale the sweet savours of spirituality.  AB05288

As for the renewal of household furnishings, clothing, bedding, vessels and furniture, this has the wisdom of cleanliness and refinement, for the renewal of all that is old is the foundation of all cleanliness. This is a mighty wisdom with which every person of culture and discernment will agree.  AB05890

He remarked how far removed the Shi'ih people were from proper conduct, for despite their belief in the tradition The believer is alive in both worlds, they would enter holy places with breath fouled by garlic and onions and in unclean attire. He said that He was affected by such unpleasant odors beyond description.  BHU0006

God hath enjoined upon you to observe the utmost cleanliness, to the extent of washing what is soiled with dust, let alone with hardened dirt and similar defilement. Fear Him, and be of those who are pure. Should the garb of anyone be visibly sullied, his prayers shall not ascend to God, and the celestial Concourse will turn away from him.  BH00001

The Concourse on High and the sanctified spirits have their gaze fixed upon perfumed, pure and refined stations. Thus did the Herald declare that prayer offered in silk garments is more excellent before God. Likewise He said that if He knew which place thou wouldst choose as thy residence, He would even now command that it be built of diamond faces reflecting water.  BH01791

Let some of you show mercy unto others and be kind unto yourselves insofar as ye are able. Adorn yourselves for God, your Lord, through your glorification of God and your remembrance of His praise, through your magnification of God and your declaration of His oneness, and through wearing the finest garments ye possess. This is of God's grace and mercy upon you, that ye might be thankful.  BB00004

My meaning is this, that in every aspect of life, purity and holiness, cleanliness and refinement, exalt the human condition and further the development of man's inner reality. Even in the physical realm, cleanliness will conduce to spirituality, as the Holy Writings clearly state. And although bodily cleanliness is a physical thing, it hath, nevertheless, a powerful influence on the life of the spirit.  AB00109

"thou must refine thyself to the utmost degree of refinement such that if thou shouldst know there is even one superfluous hair upon thy body, it would be unfitting at that time. And thou must wear thy most pure garments, not the most splendid thereof, such that if thou wearest an old shirt that is pure, good, refined and clean to the extent that thou knowest not even a speck of dust the size of a mosquito's wing is upon it"  BB00071

When the servant manifests from his first mention to his final appearance, then purifies his body and adorns what he wears of all things - even to the innermost garment - such that not even a mustard seed's weight of oil stain remains, he must cleanse it of that. For God loves nothing in the Bayan as much as refinement, lightness, cleanliness and purity, so that whoever enters the Bayan may find delight in all possible aspects.  BB00083


This important matter must be attended to with the utmost care and vigilance, and arranged in such a way that when a traveler enters, they will gain spirituality from witnessing its purity, cleanliness, refinement and delicacy, and from inhaling its sweet fragrance. For although cleanliness, purity and sweet fragrances are physical things, yet since they are signs of spiritual sanctification and the breath of the All-Merciful, they bestow spirituality.   AB07213

Take heed lest, when partaking of food, ye plunge your hands into the contents of bowls and platters. Adopt ye such usages as are most in keeping with refinement. He, verily, desireth to see in you the manners of the inmates of Paradise in His mighty and most sublime Kingdom. Hold ye fast unto refinement under all conditions, that your eyes may be preserved from beholding what is repugnant both to your own selves and to the dwellers of Paradise. Should anyone depart therefrom, his deed shall at that moment be rendered vain; yet should he have good reason, God will excuse him.  BH00001

A person with clean habits is always happy, and everyone is attracted to him. He finds himself in the paradise of the good-pleasure of the Lord.  ABU2730

