
Thou hast, also, assigned unto every soul a portion of this virtue in accordance with the Tablet of Thy decree and the Scriptures of Thine irrevocable judgment. Every leaf of these Books and Scriptures Thou hast, moreover, allotted to each one of the peoples and kindreds of the earth.  BH01888

All divine Tablets have the status of one book, like the Qur'an - although it has multiple chapters, it is one book. Say: All are from God. All are the Preserved Tablet and the Unfurled Scroll. Therefore, mention of any holy soul in any one of them suffices.  AB01960

Well nigh a hundred volumes of luminous verses and perspicuous words have already been sent down from the heaven of the will of Him Who is the Revealer of signs, and are available unto all.  BH00005

The teachings of Baha'o'llah are not yet evident, not yet made known, not all accumulated. For instance, there are teachings in the Book of Akdas, but they are not all there. There are the Tablet of Bishara, etc., but all these do not contain all the teachings of Baha'o'llah. They are scattered, but they will be gathered together. Then it will become evident how important are the teachings of Baha'o'llah.  ABU3031

The horizon of the Sun of Identity, the mystery of truth, will be exceedingly sweet. It cannot remain hidden by dark clouds. Understand this metaphor. The divine tablets are published, meaning they are renowned before everyone. They cannot remain folded up and concealed. Comprehend this explicit statement.  AB12085


Although much of what was revealed hath been lost and effaced due to lack of time and the rebellion of the people of hatred, strive to obtain that which exists, that thou mayest testify with complete certitude that all that hath been and will be mentioned hath flowed from the Ancient Pen.   BH00869

The writings of the Point, exalted be His glory, the Bayan, were revealed in the manner of verses and in portions from the Book of God, exalted be His glory. Therefore, let these portions be bound into another volume, and if God willeth, all that hath been revealed in the Book shall be gathered for us.  BB00004

As to the matter of recording and collecting the wondrous writings and extraordinary events witnessed from the Ancient Beauty - to forbid this would cause hearts to become chilled, therefore no one should interfere.   AB10236

Pure souls should gather divine verses pertaining to every subject and, with wisdom and appropriateness, convey them in a spirit of joy and fragrance.  For instance, verses concerning character, as well as those revealed regarding deeds and words and the prohibition of dissension, contention and conflict, and likewise keep in mind verses for other occasions, reciting them when necessary, that perchance the heedless may become aware and comprehend their purpose. The loved ones of God must reflect upon those matters that conduce to the exaltation and glory of the Cause and that accord with the wisdom revealed in the Tablets, and act accordingly. Were someone to compile the verses sent down from the Kingdom of the divine Command concerning the absence of dissension, conflict and contention, it would surely constitute a mighty book.  BH00385

It is the concern of the True One to reveal, and the concern of men to spread what hath been revealed. He will, verily, promulgate His Cause by the hands of His scattering and well-favoured angels. Spiritual souls will assuredly emerge from behind the veil of Divine protection who will gather together the tokens and Verses of God and put them into the most excellent order. This is His sure and irrevocable decree.   BH00006 

The teachers must be taught such utterances as will cause the nearness, attraction and enkindlement of souls. In the revealed Tablets, whatsoever they may desire hath been sent down. Regarding detachment, mighty verses have been revealed, and likewise concerning righteousness, seeking and wayfaring. Concerning each virtue and attribute, that which hath been revealed would, if imparted, attract beings to the highest summit and ultimate goal. You should strive to compile these so all may attain that which will bring about the elevation of the world of being and the exaltation of the souls. We beseech God, blessed and exalted is He, to assist you under all conditions to attract the hearts.  BH00165


With respect to every mode and subject there hath streamed forth that which no mind can reckon…..  We beseech the True One to aid one of His loved ones to compile all that hath flowed from the Supreme Pen on various occasions concerning the elimination of conflict, contention and strife, as well as heavenly counsels, consummate wisdoms, and union and concord amongst the children of men. Verily He is the Helper, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Great. Likewise the mention of those souls who in this Most Great Revelation, with rapture and ecstasy, with longing and yearning, have sought the station of sacrifice and have offered up their lives in the path of the love of the Beloved of the worlds - these matters are acceptable and praiseworthy before God.  BH03636





