This is not only the golden age but the age of Diamond. This is the Century of Lights!   ABU3503

The world of man, however, has not yet reached its maturity. The time will come when this material civilization will be infused with divine civilization. Universal peace will be realized and people will become angelic. That will be the time of the world's maturity. ABU2862

The teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH have the same basic principles, but are according to the stage of the maturity of the world and the requirements of this illumined age.   AB04411

After this war new plans, new thoughts and new sound theories are essential. Old thoughts will be good for the scrapbasket. A new table must be spread, new dishes must be cooked and new appetite must be cultivated.   ABU2265

As for the sign of the maturity of the world mentioned in the Most Holy Book - one is the achievement of universal peace, and another is the manifestation and appearance of the Sister of Prophethood, divine wisdom, of which the hidden craft is a part.  AB11349

It may be said that the development of the human being from the beginning of life to the age of maturity is but a preparation for the appearance of the power of reason. This is the age of maturity and the time of the manifestation of the Most Great Intellect and the Most Ancient Bounty so that divine and material civilizations may be joined and the perfection of the human world may dawn.   ABU1375

Day by day the world of humanity is developing. We are therefore hopeful that before long the world of humanity will become mature. When the world of humanity arrives at maturity, then it will make extraordinary progress. Consider how a child arrives at maturity. Suddenly the light of intellect will shine upon him and man will then make extraordinary progress. It will be as though he were asleep but was awakened; as though he were heedless but became intelligent; as though he were blind but received his sight. Before arriving at maturity he knew nothing. When he reached maturity and the light of reason shone, then he discovered the realities of the things.   ABU0447

Similarly, there are periods and stages in the life of the aggregate world of humanity, which at one time was passing through its degree of childhood, at another its time of youth but now has entered its long presaged period of maturity, the evidences of which are everywhere visible and apparent. Therefore, the requirements and conditions of former periods have changed and merged into exigencies which distinctly characterize the present age of the world of mankind.   ABU0101

The world of humanity has, heretofore, been in the stage of infancy; now it is approaching maturity. Just as the individual human organism, having attained the period of maturity, reaches its fullest degree of physical strength and ripened intellectual faculties so that in one year of this ripened period there is witnessed an unprecedented measure of development, likewise the world of humanity in this cycle of its completeness and consummation will realize an immeasurable upward progress.  ABU0373

The contingent world is like unto man. Man has the stage of the embryo, the period of nursing, the time of development and growth, the age of discernment and maturity, and the time of puberty. In like manner, the contingent world has its degrees. In the age of nursing, man is sensitive; and in the age of adolescence, that is to say, the beginning of comprehension, he has feeling and discernment, though his understanding is weak. But when he reaches the age of maturity, all his spiritual and physical powers manifest themselves with the utmost vigor.  ABU0264

All created things have their degree, or stage, of maturity. The period of maturity in the life of a tree is the time of its fruit bearing. The maturity of a plant is the time of its blossoming and flower. The animal attains a stage of full growth and completeness, and in the human kingdom man reaches his maturity when the lights of intelligence have their greatest power and development.... Similarly, there are periods and stages in the life of the aggregate world of humanity, which at one time was passing through its degree of childhood, at another its time of youth but now has entered its long presaged period of maturity, the evidences of which are everywhere visible and apparent.  ABU0101
