
Because it is decreed by God that every plant that grows must wither, all flourishing vegetation must fade away, every combination must disperse and all compositions must disintegrate. These are the necessary consequences of that universal law and of all relationships and is interpreted as divine decree.  ABU2457

All of these beings receive their existence through the collection of different members, ingredients and simple particles. From each composition a being is produced, therefore an infinite number of beings exist. For instance, this flower is composed form the composition of different elements, and the gathering of simple particles. This is called a being; and when among these elements decomposition occurs, these ingredients separate, death slips in, and it is annihilated.   ABU1458

Nature is a condition or reality which outwardly appears to be the source of life and death, or in other words, the composition and decomposition of all things. This nature operates under precise systems, firm laws, perfect arrangements and consummate geometry, from which it never deviates.  AB01029

The body of man is the result of the composition of the elements and these elements are constantly at war with each other. They wage such a bitter war on each other that at last both sides come to defeat and disintegration.   ABU2931

Moreover, every composition of elements must eventually become decomposed, and this decomposition is inevitable. These sicknesses and ailments are the causes of dissolution. Otherwise the bodily composition of man would be preserved and never cease to exist.  AB02983

When we study beings in general, we discover that there is a tendency (propensity) for the lasting of life, or for continuous living, so that whenever these elements unite to form a composition, the resultant compound makes it possible to live - e.g. - certain elements have united in a composition, forming this leaf; likewise, certain elements have agreeably united and composed, the resultant being known as man. Likewise in the stone - we find that in this formation certain elements have come together.  Therefore it is most evident that composition or organization and union are perpetuation of species. When the composition, or rather, compound is subjected to a flaw in the agreement (of the elements) separation and dissolution result. Therefore, it is plain and evident, that agreement and union among men are productive of life results. Every movement which aims at separation, causes disagreement and produces dissension amongst men, is to be condemned and rejected.  ABU0448

When thou dost consider all phenomena, thou wilt see that every created thing hath come into being through the mingling of many elements, and once this collectivity of elements is dissolved, and this harmony of components is dissevered, the life form is wiped out.  AB00143

"The body is composed of so many elements and each element in its dissolution must return to its original constituent substance."   ABU2899

This world is the plane of creation and disintegration. The process never stops: On one side it creates new people, and on the other it destroys what she has created.   ABU1534

Because it is decreed by God that every plant that grows must wither, all flourishing vegetation must fade away, every combination must disperse and all compositions must disintegrate.  ABU2457

[the soul of man] is not a composition of diverse elements...and is not subject to decomposition... all material existents...will also be found to be composed [and therefore capable of being decomposed]   ABU0054

When elements are attracted, something is composed, and when these same elements are repelled, that form is decomposed. As by the will of God the power of composition exists, so, also by will of God the power of decomposition exists.  ABU1809

For collection, unification and composition are the means of life. And that which causes separation and decomposition is the means of death. Hence it is evident that composition and gathering cause life, and decomposition and disunion cause death.   ABU1458

Therefore it is logically proven that the existence of phenomena depends upon composition, and their destruction upon disintegration... Composition is of three kinds. 1. Accidental composition. 2. Involuntary composition. 3. Voluntary composition. There is no fourth kind of composition.   ABU0591

When through the law of creation they enter into composition, a being or organism comes into existence. For example, certain material atoms are brought together, and man is the result. When this composition is destroyed and disintegrated, decomposition takes place; this is mortality, or death.  ABU0241

Take this noble offspring, which is this prepared earth that has come into being from sulfuric fire and mercurial water, and mix it with a portion of dissolved mercury which is its essence and reality and is from its elemental realm. Place it in a gentle, moderate fire until some of that prepared earth is dissolved.  BH00088

Every composition is necessarily subject to destruction or disintegration. For instance, this flower is a composition of various elements; its decomposition is inevitable. When this composed form undergoes decomposition -- in other words, when these elements separate and disintegrate -- that is what we call the death of the flower.  ABU0138

The pain and sting of death consists in the dissolution of what was composed and its passage from one condition to another. When one is accustomed to composition, then decomposition is a painful torment; when one is used to a certain degree and station, it is difficult to take leave of it. It is therefore clear that death is merely the passage from one condition to another.  AB01283

Because these illuminating bodies which exist in yon immeasurable immensity are all composed of matter, and every composition is followed by decomposition, and this shows that (these stars) are deprived from the gift of perpetuity; but as the universe of the Kingdom is abstract and sanctified above the laws of composition and decomposition, therefore it is imperishable and indestructible.   AB05474

Existence is the expression and outcome of composition and combination. Nonexistence is the expression and outcome of division and disintegration. If we study the forms of existence in the material universe, we find that all created things are the result of composition. Material elements have grouped together in infinite variety and endless forms. Each organism is a compound; each object is an expression of elemental affinity.   ABU0701

This physical body is accidental and the inherent quality of every accidental composition is decomposition. For example, the inherent quality of the house demands that someday it be destroyed. It cannot stand forever. The inherent attribute of this body requires the ultimate return of each element to its origin, after its disintegration. Neither through the power of thought nor prayer can this physical, material body become permanent.   ABU1776

Just as there has been a process of composition, there is also of necessity a process of decomposition. For every organic and inorganic matter there are two ways of growth - longitudinal and horizontal. When mineral substances are decomposed and then those decomposed atoms go into the makeup of other mineral organisms - this is called longitudinal growth; but when those decomposed mineral matters go into the composition of vegetable life - it is called horizontal growth.   ABU0441

If there should not be decomposition, composition would not be. For instance, take several things. Until the different things are separately decomposed the composition and union is impossible. For example, if you wish the dust and stone and wood to be mixed perfectly with each other, it is impossible unless each be decomposed into its salts; when we have dissolved them then we can compose them. For instance, in a pharmacy they first dissolve the medicines, then bring them together and then they give a firm union. Before dissolution composition is impossible.  ABU0508

This human nature is composed of the elements. And no doubt for all the material or elemental composition there is a disintegration. But it is not composed of one element. Over 17 elements have gone into the composition of matter. Being composed of divergent elements, it is necessarily exposed or subjected to decomposition; becomes disintegrated. But the ideal nature, being an indestructible Spirit, and being one and unique in nature, being absolute radiance, the sublimity of the human nature is eternal and permanent, and it is not to be subject to disintegration.  ABU0757

Consider likewise creation and dissolution, existence and non-existence. Every created thing is composed of diverse and multiple elements, and existence itself is contingent upon composition. That is, when through divine creation a combination occurs among simple elements, from each combination a being takes form. All existence follows this pattern. When disorder arises in that composition and dissolution occurs and the elements separate, that being ceases to exist. In other words, the annihilation of anything means the decomposition and separation of its elements.  AB00053

When we look upon the existence, we see there is decomposition and composition. Composition is the means and cause of life and decomposition is the cause of death. Now several elements are composed and united and form this flower, and so several elements are composed and the body is formed, and so with everything. By this it is known and understood that all unification and composition is the cause of life in all stations-in the mineral, vegetable, animal and human stations. The lowest station is the station of the mineral. If unification is not found, the several molecules will not be gathered and composed. For instance, in this wood there are molecules. These molecules are gathered together and composed, then wood will be found. All substance gets its life from unification and composition and when separation takes place among these molecules, death is certain.   ABU0966

When you ask them "Who is the Creator of the world? What is your opinion in the matter?" They will answer: "It is quite plain and evident that there are various kinds of elements, and by being composed a being is formed." We must say, "You are right, it seems to be so, but we have heard something else, some philosophers and learned men told us as follows: 'When we look carefully at objects and things we can comprehend and understand that by the composition of some elements something is formed; this is quite evident. But there are three kinds of composition. One is accomplished by force; for instance, fire attracts water, this is made through force - that is, the elements attract each other; when they come together they form an object. This kind of composition is called innate or natural attraction, made by force. The second kind of composition is said to be done by chance, for instance, it rained by chance, the sun cast its rays by chance; therefore, vegetables grow. The third is a composition made by will, by aim;--for instance,--A doctor gives a medicine which is composed of various elements, compounded by his will; knowing the ingredients of the drugs he compounds them by will.' We must look and see very carefully that we understand whether the things or objects of the world are formed through the power of attraction made by force; if it is so, then there should not be the decomposition, because the elements attracted by the other must remain together everlastingly; corruption must not take place; some realize that there are both composition and decomposition.  As to the second, which was by chance,--this is also not perfect, but completely invalid. How can there be movement without a mover? As to the third, that all objects in the world are made or formed by will. Then, there should be a Creator for everything, for instance, to place the eye in its own place, the ear in its proper place, etc. Such a power creates, gives life to man, and works through His will. We call this will, GOD! All the prophets believed in such a Great Being."  ABU0965

The law of composition and decomposition, amalgamation and dissolution, construction and destruction, protection and danger are two basal principles of creation. Creation therefore is based upon the activity of these two fundamental laws.  ABU1154

The people of truth hold that all material existents, even those which the scientists of today consider simple, if investigated carefully and examined closely, will also be found to be composed [and therefore capable of being decomposed]   ABU0054

God hath not created any being except that its existence is conditioned upon the composition, mixing and combining of simple primary elements, nor hath He ordained any death, passing or non-existence except through the analysis, decomposition, separation and dispersion of its original constituent parts.   AB12166


"When we study phenomena, with the investigation of truth as our object, we discover that the law of conservation of energy is a reality; that the elemental realities are ever existent, and that phenomena are the compositions thereof; that each phenomenon or existent being is composed of certain elements, this being a scientific fact that can be verified by natural philosophy; that every single molecule is composed of certain atoms"  ABU1593

As for created things, their life consists in composition and their death in decomposition. But matter and the universal elements cannot be entirely destroyed and annihilated. No, their annihilation is merely transformation. For instance, when man dies his body becomes dust, but it does not become absolute non-existence: it retains a mineral existence, but a transformation has taken place and that composition has been subjected to decomposition.  AB00876


These contingent elements are nothing but the composition of various single atoms. The individual atoms appear from time to time in various forms. Therefore composition is the sign of life, and decomposition is the sign of mortality. With this principle well established, where can you prove the necessity for the existence of a creator? There is a natural law which impels the various single atoms to come together involuntarily and to form a composite object.   ABU0097


Consider the bodies of all the natural organisms. Certain elements have gathered and combine in chemical affinity. The tree, the man, the fish are due to this attraction and cohesion which have brought the elements together. A composition or composite being has resulted. The outcome of certain atomic grouping, for instance, is a mirror, table or clock because a cohesive power has magnetized and bound these atoms together.  ABU0204
