Be a compassionate father to humanity  AB10335

surely day by day increase your love and kindness   AB07495

In this Baha'i Dispensation, kindness, mercy and loving-kindness are among the fundamental principles of the divine teachings.  AB09532

Strive to scatter the seeds of kindness in the hearts   ABU1561

Tenderness and loving-kindness are basic principles of God's heavenly Kingdom.  AB00890

That which manifested kindness...Look not at this or that - be thou kind  AB10609

The best man is that person who cheers and gladdens the broken-hearted ones   ABU3383

The friends and handmaidens of the Merciful must be well-wishers and kind to all   AB11891

Therefore must all be mindful of wisdom and treat mankind with kindliness and compassion.  BH07990

Man must be a mine of piety and sympathy. He must raise the fallen and cheer the hopeless.  ABU3473

The friends of God must show complete wisdom and kindness to all, displaying good conduct   AB06125

Be very kind to them. Treat them most gently. Associate with them. Invite them to your home   ABU1486

"Remember the saying: 'Of all pilgrimages the greatest is to relieve the sorrow-laden heart.'"   AB06644

quickly go and give some pleasure to someone lowly or sorrowful, or to a guilty or innocent sufferer!  ABU3027

Deal with your relatives with the utmost love and kindness to such a degree as to attract their hearts  AB11031

thou hast been and art dealing with all souls with utmost kindness, love and patience, according to His command  BH01886

As much as thou canst, be thou a manifestation of the favors of the Merciful and an angel of the mercy of God.   AB06703

Whenever a friend gladdens the heart of a friend and shows kindness, this heart finds the utmost joy and delight.  AB05622

If you have been kind to a dog once in your lifetime it will never forget and will follow you whenever it sees you.  ABU2394

Console the helpless and be kind to the distressed. Be a healing balm to every wound and the greatest remedy for every ailment.  AB09561

Show kindness to the helpless and be gentle with the distressed. Be a healing balm to every wound and the greatest remedy for every ailment.  AB09561

The rendering of service to humanity. Each member must try to be kind to everyone and to show forth great affection towards every living soul.   ABU2404

Physical kindness consists of affection, nurturing, watchfulness and attention. But spiritual kindness is heavenly guidance and divine knowledge.  AB03919

Fourth--They must observe the utmost kindness, so that all may consider themselves servants of each other, and be truthful and honest to all mankind.  ABU2077

Be a heart companion to every grieving one and become the dawn of hope for every hopeless one. Be refreshing water for the thirsty and life-giving for the dead.  AB06988

Strive ye then with all your heart to treat compassionately all humankind -- except for those who have some selfish, private motive, or some disease of the soul.  AB00890

They do not mind if they are injured but they would feel most keenly if their fellowmen are harmed or maltreated. Their happiness is bound with that of mankind.   ABU2895

Be always kind to everyone and a refuge for those who are without shelter. Be nurses to the sick, treasurers for the poor, and supply heavenly food to the hungry.  ABU2673

When I have bad news for someone, I do not convey it to him openly, rather do I converse with him in such wise that when he heareth that news, my words bring comfort to him.  ABU2761

The greatest service to the Kingdom of God is kindness to the servants of God. The greatest kindness to the friends of God, to the servants of God, is guidance or guiding them.   ABU2195

The best person is he who wins all hearts and is not the cause of grief to anyone. The worst of souls is he who causes hearts to be agitated and who becomes the cause of sadness.  ABU1819

that they may shine like unto brilliant stars in this darksome world, teach all the peoples of the world the mores of love, and show everyone kindliness and friendship, sympathy and courtesy  AB02575

become the cool and pure water to every thirsty one, a heavenly table to every hungry one, a swift healing antidote to every sick one and the cause of the everlasting glory to every humiliated one   AB02575

Beware! Beware! Lest ye offend any heart. Beware! Beware! Lest ye hurt any soul. Beware! Beware! Lest ye deal unkindly toward any person. Beware! Beware! Lest ye be the cause of hopelessness to any creature.  ABU1027


Therefore, as much as you can, bring joy to hearts and glad tidings to souls. Be a refuge and shelter for strangers, and grant those who are alone assistance and support. Be a remedy for every pain and a balm for every wound.   AB02998


You must be exceedingly compassionate to each other and to all the people of the world. Love and serve mankind just for the sake of God and not for anything else. The foundation of your love toward humanity must be spiritual faith and divine assurance.   ABU1347

In thankfulness for the favors of the one true God, be thou loving towards both friend and stranger, and as far as thou art able, be a loving companion to every broken-hearted one, and become the cause of joy and gladness to every depressed soul. This is the condition of loving-kindness.  AB08244

the friends of God must show them the utmost kindness...the friends show kindness to them...The divine friends must become the comfort of every stranger except the accursed one, and be the cause of joy to every sorrowful one, the shelter of every fearful one, and the consoler of every lonely one.   AB06018

The perfect man is a mine of mercy and benevolence. It is necessary to be kind to both man and animal; for both have received a share from this life and are endowed with feelings. Mercy is commended and accepted by His Highness the Almighty whether it is exercised toward man or animal; even Mercy and Kindness practiced towards the plant is acceptable and beloved.  AB09737

With heavenly qualities, and the utmost kindness, devote thyself to all sorts of people, even to enemies. Take no offense at anyone. Do not look at a person's behavior, at his deeds; do not treat him according to his capacity and his deserts. Look toward God; look toward the teachings of God. Thus, thou must be kind to all; thy desire must always be this, to rejoice some heart, make some soul happy.  AB08172

Ye must tread in the path of God, show kindness to all that dwell on earth and become acquainted with all nations. Ye must become sweet and honey to the human world and grant affection and tender compassion to humankind. Become a healer of the ailing and a balm to any pitiful wounded (being.) Become (companions) comforters of hearts and quickeners of souls that ye may become the revealers of the great mercy.   AB01675

O ye lovers of God! Be kind to all peoples; care for every person; do all ye can to purify the hearts and minds of men; strive ye to gladden every soul. To every meadow be a shower of grace, to every tree the water of life; be as sweet musk to the sense of humankind, and to the ailing be a fresh, restoring breeze. Be pleasing waters to all those who thirst, a careful guide to all who have lost their way; be father and mother to the orphan, be loving sons and daughters to the old, be an abundant treasure to the poor.  AB00027

