
O loved ones of God! Upon you be calmness and dignity.  AB04621

Be not disturbed by anything, for this is the way of the heedless.   BH06635

Be thou assured in all conditions and fix thy gaze upon His horizon  BH06344

A spiritual man is always calm and serene under all circumstances.   ABU3559

The people of truth must move with the utmost tranquility and dignity.   BH06911

attend to the arrangement of affairs with the utmost calm and composure  AB10163

Let Thine everlasting melodies breathe tranquillity on me, O my Companion   BH04421

Walk ye upon the earth with the dignity and tranquility that come from God   BH07508

Dignity and composure arising from faith and certitude are most acceptable.   AB03055

Therefore, neither the prison is a cause of sorrow, nor freedom from it a source of joy.  AB05095

Now praise be to God, thou hast a body of brass and a soul in perfect peace and composure  AB06690

Rest and repose are necessary for thee in these days; be thou composed in all conditions.   AB05391

Man must never brood over inevitable misfortunes nor let his soul be afflicted with misery.   ABU1578

If the heart becometh absolutely tranquil, suspicion and imagination will entirely pass away.  AB10279

You must act with utmost dignity and composure, and never oppose him, neither in word nor deed.   AB02060

shelter us under the shade of the tree of thy mercifulness and grant us spiritual composure and rest  AB04602

The Wronged One makes mention of thee on this blessed day and commands all to patience and tranquility.   BH06896

What is incumbent upon the people of Baha is patience, calmness, steadfastness and forbearance in all things.   AB06703

with the utmost joy and fragrance remain firm and steadfast beneath the shade of the Beloved of all possibility   BH11236

His thought is peaceful and serene, contrary to the city people who are always haunted by the nightmare of livelihood.  ABU1920

When this is one's approach, peace of mind and tranquility of conscience result; otherwise one is constantly tormented.  AB02892

This divine benediction bringeth tranquillity to the heart and comfort to the soul in both this world and the world to come.   AB03851

Preserve your stations through patience and tranquility. Thus doth My Most Exalted Pen command you from this praiseworthy station.  BH05068

True joy comes from the tranquility of heart, and this state comes from faith! Praise be to God who gave us tranquility of heart!   ABU3055

Preserve your stations through patience and tranquility.  BH05068

We counsel you, O My loved ones, to observe calmness and dignity, and that whereby the Cause of God may be exalted throughout all lands.  BH07491

Should anyone at any time encounter hard and perplexing times, he must say to himself, "This will soon pass." Then he will be calm and quiet.  ABU2539

Among the divine commands is composure and tranquility in affairs.   AB00899

O peoples of the earth! Adorn your temples with the ornament of tranquility and dignity. Thus have We commanded you aforetime and in this Book.  BH05482

He will become like unto a sea that although on its surface the tempest is raging and the mountainous waves rising in its depth there is complete calmness.   ABU1946

Regarding the upheaval about which you wrote - turmoil exists in all the atoms of the world. The loved ones of God must maintain complete composure, calm and dignity.  AB10896

Peace of mind is the soul's delight, as it is the means of acquiring that extraordinary state in which man finds happiness in times of affliction and tranquility in trouble.   ABU1453

Now the loved ones of God must also act with perfect calm, dignity, confidence and strength of heart in such situations, meaning during the onslaught of the cholera epidemic.   AB01845

They find no anxiety except confidence, and seek no war and cruelty except peace and tranquility. Such happiness is eternal and such a station is the cause of everlasting life.   ABU1432

Live thou in the station of resignation and contentment so that thy heart and soul may obtain peace and serenity. Do thou ever possess the immensity of heart so that it may never be contracted.  AB08156

Therefore, man should never allow any disturbance in his composure. He should never be disturbed by any event that occurs, for all things possess consummate wisdom which will later become manifest.  ABU1032

In this world the greatest gift of God is the tranquility of the heart, especially when such a heart becomes the abiding place of the Love of God. This is the highest attainment in the world of creation!   ABU1110

Thou must conduct thyself with the utmost patience, composure and dignity. To utter words that would cause tumult and clamor among the people is not permitted and hath been strictly forbidden in God's Book.   BH00529

The best hour that I like in these days is just after sunset. Over one's soul steals a quiet serenity. A calm beauty and satisfaction comes unheralded and one is submerged, as though, in a sea of contemplation.   ABU1944

A really happy human being will no longer be subject to the changes and chances of life. Like an immortal king he will sit on the throne of firmly-founded reality. He will be inaccessible to outer, changing circumstances   ABU2691

In the fire of tribulations they remain fresh and verdant, and in the tempest of trials and afflictions tranquil and at peace, for they rest their backs against a mighty mountain and take refuge in a ship wrought of steel.  AB12038

Anxiety is not permitted. The world is a theater of upheaval. One should not be affected by anything, but rather should conduct oneself with the utmost expansion of heart, joy of conscience, peace of mind, dignity and steadfastness.   AB05092

The mind of a contented person is always peaceful and his heart is at rest. He is like a monarch ruling over the whole world. How happily such a man helps himself to his frugal meals. How joyfully he takes his walks and how peacefully he sleeps!  ABU1198

The hearts of believers are serene. They have a thousand enemies, yet they stand firm. The greatest of divine bounties is certitude of heart that one is protected from harm. Then whatever occurs, one is at ease, even if outwardly he be in a prison.   ABU2572

Sleep truly brings great tranquillity to the body and relieves one altogether. A sleep so deep that it can be likened to death itself, a sleep which renders one utterly oblivious of the world, grants rest to the body and preserves one's physical health.  ABU3693

O God, give me a new life at every instant and bestow upon me the breaths of the Holy Spirit at every moment, in order that I may remain steadfast in Thy love, attain unto great felicity, perceive the manifest light and be in the state of utmost tranquillity and submissiveness.  AB09479

Though your heart be aflame with His love, take heed lest any eye discover your inner agitation, and though your soul be surging like an ocean, suffer not the serenity of your countenance to be disturbed, nor the manner of your behaviour to reveal the intensity of your emotions.  BHU0002

Perfect tranquility in spirit and repose hath been intended for him, that the eastern winds might not settle upon his heart, and the means of eagerness in writing and composition have been prepared for him in a perfect manner, that he might never witness any sorrow, neither secretly nor openly   BB00482

But a wisely-directed soul, a person whose heart is illumined with the Light of God, who is imbued with the quality of radiant acquiescence, and who is informed with the open mysteries of the divine world -- is always in the same condition and is never upset by the constantly-changing events of life.  ABU1296

Be calm, be joyous, and not only when the sky is clear, but when the clouds gather as well. To be calm and brave under difficulties is a proof of spiritual force. But let no man, because he has gained outward control over himself, imagine that he has accomplished the highest cultivation of his character. There must be inner calmness, based on a sense of security in God's protection, and a desire to do good for the sake of good.  ABU0361

