
Man must always quench the flame. For this world is all aflame, it is a world of conflict and contention. Conflict between individuals is natural. It is inherent in nature. There is a struggle for survival - what is commerce but warfare? The merchant is at war with all other merchants in order to profit. This is called the struggle for survival. It exists in all things. Every tree seeks to take the benefits of other trees, to choke out other trees. The human world is a world of conflict and contention; every individual is at war with all others. Strive as much as you can to extinguish these flames, let this always be your thought - to extinguish them. One must show the utmost kindness to all people. ABU1821

These poor souls are like animals captive to nature, defeated and condemned by nature. The animal, according to the dictates of nature, transgresses, each striving to destroy the other--this is in accordance with nature's rule and requirement. In the world of nature there is ferocity, oppression, struggle for survival, and all these are nature's requirements. Just as all these animals are captive to nature, in the same way man too is abject, subjugated, and captive to nature.  ABU0135

Strife is an animal tendency, an attribute of nature, for nature is dominated by the law of the survival of the fittest, which ever causes enmity, rancor and warfare, and when nature is left to itself corruption prevails. Man must be educated according to the teachings of God in order that the natural or animal tendencies may be eradicated.   ABU0657

In the natural world, the greatest force is the struggle for survival, and this struggle for existence is the source of all difficulties and the cause of war and strife, enmity and hatred among all humanity. For in the natural world, oppression, self-centeredness, the desire for dominance, and transgression against the rights of others--these blameworthy qualities which are among the vices of the animal world--exist. Therefore, as long as nature's demands rule among humanity, the prosperity and success of the human world depends on virtues and qualities that adorn human reality, which are contrary to nature's demands. Nature is warlike, nature is bloodthirsty, nature is tyrannical, nature is heedless of the Lord God.  AB00269

It is natural in man to oppress. When two individuals fight they go before the Court and settle their differences but there is no law or any court whereby the nations may resort thereto and arbitrate their conflicting interests, therefore when they arise to usurp each other's countries there is no one to say 'no'.  ABU1157

In the days of old an instinct for warfare was developed in the struggle with wild animals; this is no longer necessary; nay, rather, co-operation and mutual understanding are seen to produce the greatest welfare of mankind.  ABU1120

For partnership is a sign of the unity of words and union and agreement in the divine Cause. It is very difficult for human beings individually to succeed in any undertaking, but when an association is formed and a company is established, they succeed through unity in carrying out great enterprises.  AB11381

Ferocious animals have no fellowship. The vultures and tigers are solitary, whereas domestic animals live together in complete harmony. The sheep, black and white, associate without discord. Birds of various species and colors wing their flight and feed together without a trace of enmity or disagreement.   ABU0701

Cooperation and mutual assistance are among the binding obligations of human society, especially for the Party of God, who must sacrifice themselves in cooperating with and supporting one another, nay rather for all humanity, for this is better and more attractive and will influence mankind like the spirit in the human body, bestowing new life.  AB03000

Consider that some creatures seek the harm of others and call this the struggle for survival, claiming it to be the natural foundation of human society. But this is a grave error--indeed, there could be no greater error. Glory be to God! Among some animals there is cooperation and mutual aid for survival. It can be observed that in times of danger they actually rush to help one another.  AB00158

In the world of existence there is nothing more productive of results than the co-ordination of the will-powers of men. If the will-powers of two men co-ordinate with each other, the action will be greater in effect and scope. Likewise if the will-powers of the nations of today co-ordinate with each other in international comity and unification, the Happiness of mankind will become unveiled.  ABU0303

And thus when contemplating the human world thou beholdest this wondrous phenomenon shining resplendent from all sides with the utmost perfection, inasmuch as in this station acts of co-operation, mutual assistance and reciprocity are not confined to the body and to things that pertain to the material world, but for all conditions, whether physical or spiritual, such as those related to minds, thoughts, opinions, manners, customs, attitudes, understandings, feelings or other human susceptibilities.  AB00446



In the physical realm of creation, all things are eaters and eaten: the plant drinketh in the mineral, the animal doth crop and swallow down the plant, man doth feed upon the animal, and the mineral devoureth the body of man.  AB01624

There is a struggle for survival - what is commerce but warfare? The merchant is at war with all other merchants in order to profit. This is called the struggle for survival. It exists in all things. Every tree seeks to take the benefits of other trees, to choke out other trees.  ABU1821

The higher forms of life are fed upon the lower status of genesis. The grass takes its nourishment out of the soil and every day grows taller and taller like unto this. The animal in turn eats this grass and is sustained by it. After awhile man comes around, kills the cow and feeds himself upon it.  ABU1154

Throughout this endless universe, the greatest means for the progress and renewal of existence is that all things are eaters and eaten. This is a condition that applies to all the particles of the universe, and it is through this means that created things are renewed, transformed into one another, and endowed with a new reality unlike the previous one.  AB01283

All the atoms of creation are in conflict and struggle with one another, engaged in the contest for survival...The elements are in utter conflict, and created things transgress against one another. Animals tear each other apart, plants crowd each other out, humanity is constantly in danger. This terrible war stems from the struggle for survival. Every being is caught in another's grip.  AB12810

like a fierce wolf that would tear apart all the sheep in the world if it could, and every animal wants all the grass in the field for itself...Can one say to the lion and wolf, why do you tear apart the sheep? No, this is the requirement of nature - might makes right - and this is the struggle for existence, that everything seeks benefit for its own life and harm and destruction for other beings  ABU1692

