
O seeker of God! All creation speaks of God but seeks Him not   AB07371


"As we came to the table because we were hungry, so we should approach the spiritual table."  ABU2954

The thirsty one must run after the water; the fountain will not run after those who are thirsty.  ABU3760

If any soul desires to attain to Knowledge, in the moment when that desire had mounted to its apex  ABU3216

O servant of God! A sovereign in this human world is one who inhales the sweet fragrances of the other world  AB09245

"O seeker of truth! Your letter arrived and its contents indicated that you are searching for the divine Faith."   AB05117

It is incumbent upon man to be a seeker after the discovery of every truth, so that he may penetrate every mystery and make easy every difficulty  ABU2829

Man must never get satisfied. He must ever be thirsty. There is nothing worse in this world than satisfaction from thirst. Man must drink from every fountain.  ABU3117

Thou hearest the sighing of those who long for Thee and beholdest the agitation in the hearts of the sincere ones in their separation and remoteness from Thee.   BH08857

We beseech Him to kindle in the breast of the world the fire of seeking, that all may turn in devotion toward the most exalted horizon, the supreme perspective, and the ultimate goal.   BH07404

Thou didst traverse the path of search and didst seek the countenance of the Beloved One, the All-Merciful, until thou didst find traces of the Traceless Friend and didst attain unto the Best-Beloved.  AB12619

At the gate of the garden some stand and look within, but do not care to enter. Others step inside, behold its beauty, but do not penetrate far. Still others encircle this garden inhaling the fragrance of the flowers and, having enjoyed its full beauty, pass out again by the same gate.   ABU3048


If you are lost in the desert, the path of guidance is clear and evident. If you thirst for the sweet Euphrates, the waves of the creative sea are high and manifest. And if you long for the divine countenance, the lights of His presence from the Most Glorious Kingdom are clear and visible to the eye of insight.   AB05691

The struggle and search for truth is a heavy burden, and the trust of the Glorious Lord is such that heaven and earth cannot bear it. Therefore, the learned and accomplished who did not seek became deprived. But since you were seekers of truth, you strived and struggled, became privy to the mystery and became intimate confidants with the Beloved of mysteries.  AB04794

O thou seeker after truth! The generality of mankind profess to adore the truth and claim to be inebriated by the wine of the love of God. Only the one who is willing to become like an adoring moth around the flame shall shine even as a lighted candle. Such a one must strive by day and night, must cry aloud and beg to behold the rays of truth shining from the Dawning Place of all lights.   AB03851

However much the powerful rays of the sun may melt an iron object and render fluid what was once solid, it cannot make the frozen heart perceive, nor bring delight to the deprived blind. And however much the melodies of the divine nightingale may bestow happiness and evoke ecstasy, they cannot make those with defective hearing grow wise.  AB11077


Wert thou for a thousand years to recite unto a stone the verses of wondrous glory, would it ever be affected by them or comprehend their significance? Nay, by thy Lord, the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate! Wert thou to recite unto the deaf all the verses of God, would they hear a single letter thereof? Nay, by His ancient and glorious Beauty!   BH00939


You were a seeker and found; you were thirsty and reached the sweet water; you were a searcher and discovered what you sought   AB07371
