"But conduct your trade and business with wisdom and thought."  AB09988

A small business with a steady income is better than the wild, helter-skelter speculations of the financiers.  ABU1198

In their business and commerce, [they must] allow for the profit of others and not just focus on their own gain.  ABU0858

Let him engage in craft and profession - a single coin earned thereby is, in the sight of God, more beloved than the treasure that is gathered unrightfully and made ready.  BH10890

As long as bribery and corruption remain the attribute of every eminent person - meaning officials and administrators - success and prosperity are impossible and unattainable.  AB00757

As to helping one another, this refers to the various pursuits of life, as commerce, trade, professions, etc. In whatsoever of these a believer is in need of help, that help should be rendered.  ABU1047

Among the conditions of ability is the payment of debts. The rights of the people are most great in the sight of God. Therefore, you must first endeavor to settle your debts, then turn toward that praiseworthy station.  AB08758

O Abu'l-Hasan! Engage in trade in such wise that neither shall its profit gladden thee nor its loss grieve thee. Be content in all conditions with what has been ordained for thee from the Pen of God, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting.  BH09071

riches earned by personal effort with divine assistance, in various trades, agriculture and the arts, and rightly administered, are justly deserving of praise, forasmuch as if a wise and discerning man acquires them, they become a ready means of benefit to the state  ABU3427

Honey of a superior quality could no doubt have been purchased at a lower price. I who am your example have been a merchant by profession. It behoves you in all your transactions to follow in My way. You must neither defraud your neighbour nor allow him to defraud you.  BBU0013

if they should commit any wrongdoing or accept any bribes, they become detested at the divine threshold and incur the wrath of the Abha Beauty, and the Truth and the people of truth become disgusted with them. Rather, they should be content with their stipend and wages   AB01301

A business man must be satisfied with a limited amount of success. If he goes beyond the danger mark he will bring upon himself either complete ruin or invite the displeasure of the public for his greed and rapacity which is equally ruinous if not to his fortune - to his character.   ABU0330

When His Honor Amin hastened to this region, he mentioned the company of the Parsee friends, that these souls have engaged in this company with trustworthiness, religiosity, and sincerity and with the utmost zeal, and their purpose is to serve the world of humanity and to attain blessings.  AB10212

The best capital and the most profitable business is honesty in all things. Do thou continue to be honest in thy dealings for one month. Thou wilt see in the end that thou art honored and respected by all thy customers, and not considering thy spiritual welfare, thy material prosperity will be secured.   ABU3329

The Partnership Company is a manifestation of the favors of the Most Merciful and the recipient of endless bounties. It is hoped that, as befits and is worthy, you may become the dawning-place of mighty signs and become renowned throughout all regions for excellence in dealings, religiosity and trustworthiness among the people.  AB09378

Whenever a believer dies and leaves behind debt, the friends of God must exert themselves to pay it off. If he has left some property or real estate they may dispose of it in the best possible manner and meet the indebtedness of the deceased; if not, each person may contribute something toward a general fund and thus silence the creditors.   ABU2760

Those who are employed in government offices must conduct themselves with utmost detachment, purity, freedom, chastity and virtue, being content with their wages. They must not stain their pure garment through bribery and corruption. Today if a single soul among the friends should, God forbid, take even a penny unlawfully, the pure hem of the Cause of God would be sullied and it would bring disgrace upon all.   AB06140

The partnership formed between Ustad Karim and Mirza Habibullah is blessed and will, God willing, be the cause of bounty. But the intention must be that this commerce be conducted with such justice and fairness that it becomes a cause of guidance. The beloved of God must make commerce a means of guiding people - that is, they should astonish others in their dealings by demonstrating such truthfulness, such trustworthiness, and such goodwill.  AB10550

If a partnership is formed in commerce or in business and craft, from the beginning it should be made firm and solid. Everyone's role should be clear and evident, and income and expenses should be specified, so that there remains no room for dispute. When all accept with firm conditions and orderly arrangement, God willing no trouble will arise. Or they should not become partners from the start - each one should attend to his own work and engage in whatever is feasible  AB12145

if several of the friends of God who dwell in any of the cities of truth and who are engaged in the same craft were to unite and work together in partnership, seeking from God the grace to conduct their dealings according to divine qualities... rent a spacious shop, gathering therein whatever copper each possesses, recording in a ledger how much belongs to each, and keeping a daily account book. At the end of each month they should balance the shop's income and expenses  AB12800

One day certain merchants went to the Bab and made an agreement for the purchase of a large amount of indigo. After this agreement, they carried the goods to their own store. When the time for payment arrived, they asked for a reduction in the price. The Bab did not accept their request. He told them that they had already agreed upon the price and all other terms of the transaction, that the deal had been completed and so He refused to reduce the price. They insisted but the Bab remained firm. 'Dabbih is the custom of this land.' The Bab answered, 'Soon many of these bad customs will be changed.' No matter how much they insisted, the Bab did not change His position. He told them that if they thought that the price was too high, they could return the goods.  ABU0634

There was a Persian by the name Gassem who came from the town of Neyreez... He was an expert tobacco-trader and anxious to settle in business... He wished to buy 160 bales of tobacco and he did not have one cent with himself nor did he have anyone to recommend him... When this merchant in Beirut was assured of this fact, he helped Gasem in buying tobacco and did not even ask him of his notes. Then Gasem carried the tobacco to Jerusalem where he sold it for a good profit and sent the capital to the merchant in Beirut.   ABU1404

Several times the friends of 'Ishqabad have acted recklessly in their business affairs and placed themselves in danger, seeking the intercession of this weak servant. Therefore supplications and entreaties were made at the Sacred Threshold and confirmations were sought. Loss was transformed into profit and deficit ended in surplus. Therefore I hope that henceforth the friends of God will conduct business with the utmost moderation and not deviate from the laws of commerce, so that such difficulties may not arise again.  AB10882

The friends of God must deal with each other with the utmost trustworthiness and religiosity, and whoever falls short in this regard has turned away from the counsels of the Blessed Beauty and from the divine exhortations. If a person does not deal with his household and associates with complete trustworthiness and religiosity, then no matter how honestly and faithfully he may deal with strangers, it will remain fruitless and without result. First, internal dealings must be set in order, then external matters may be addressed.  AB02974

However, every business company should be established on divine principles. Its foundations should be trustworthiness, piety, and truthfulness, in order to protect the rights of the people and to become, as day followeth day, a magnet of fidelity, so that the confirmations of the All-Glorious may be unveiled. Moreover, a legitimate company must needs exert all within its power to safeguard the rights of the people in all matters, whether great or small, and to administer the affairs of the company with the utmost perfection, uprightness, and care.  AB11381

Not a long time ago I knew a merchant who exported a great deal of wheat. Once he had a cargo on the sea with 6000 pounds Sterling wheat in it. One morning while he was sitting in his office, busy with his mercantile affairs he received a cable to the effect that a storm had arisen, sinking his valuable cargo of wheat. He did not manifest the least trace of worry or perturbation in his face. In his calm, most matter of fact tone he turned to his clerk and handing him the cable he said: 'Note this on the debit of loss and contingencies' and resumed his work. But when this very merchant went to the market to buy daily provision for his home he would haggle with the vegetable vendor for a quarter of Mataleek and tried to save one or two cents in the whole bargain. He was not really a parsimonious fellow but a careful, household economist. He would say the loss of a cargo of wheat is not a thing that will happen often but if one does not watch over his daily expenses sooner or later he will be drained to the bottom and will then have to weep over his own carelessness.  ABU1578
