
many have made claims of divinity and lordship - His Holiness Quddus, may my spirit be sacrificed for him, revealed a book on the interpretation of Samad where from beginning to end it is "I am God", and the honorable Tahirih raised "I am God" to the highest heavens in Badasht, and likewise some loved ones in Badasht, and the Blessed Beauty in the Qasidiy-i-Varqa'iyyih states: "All divinities became divine from a sprinkling of my command, and all lords became lordly from an overflow of my wisdom." But they did not say that any soul arose in true servitude as is its right. AB04355

She [Tahirih] became so attracted to the divine threshold that she forsook everything and went forth to the plain of Badasht, no fear in her heart, dauntless, intrepid, openly proclaiming the message of light which had come to her.   ABU0086

We soon joined her [Tahirih] at Badasht, where We rented a garden for her use, and appointed the same Muhammad-Hadi who had achieved her deliverance, as her doorkeeper. About seventy of Our companions were with Us and lodged in a place in the vicinity of that garden.  BHU0003

Then the journey to Badasht was made. Kurratu'l-Ayn had been imprisoned in her father's house in Kasvin. They had made things very hard for her, - her husband, her father, sons, and all her relatives. The Blessed Beauty sent and arranged her escape by night. She was brought to Tehran and for a few days was in Baha'o'llah's house. Then He sent her to Badasht for the friends were gathered there. Also, later the Blessed Beauty went.   ABU0497

Later Baha'u'llah sent her with a number of believers towards Badasht. Their first stop was a beautiful and verdant garden. Tahirih and the friends arrived there and were later joined by Baha'u'llah, Who rested the night there. In the morning He sent Tahirih and the friends with ample provisions to Badasht. After a few days, Baha'u'llah Himself went there. When He reached Badasht, Quddus had returned from Khurasan and he, too, came to Badasht, but he remained concealed.   AB00098

At one time in Badasht, the Blessed Perfection was ill in a tent with three hundred-sixty believers near him. Up to this date the Babis had always followed the rules of the Mussulmen, but now the time had come for them to follow the laws of The Bab; so Kurratu'l Ayn, who was living near the tent of the Blessed Perfection ran out among all the men believers with her face uncovered, and cried out (as the Koran foretells), - 'When the Lord shall come the bells will ring and the bugles shall blow. I am the bell. I am the bugle of the Lord.'   ABU1131

When he was in the plain of Badasht, there was a man who was very religious and prayed for hours. Then Baha'u'llah in order to break this custom of excessive praying, ordered Korratol-ain to up[braid] the man. While he was engaged in prayer she came and began to talk with him most vehemently that this is the day of work, action. Get up and do something. This day of prayer is not now. The man was so astonished at this sudden attack that he began to tremble and sat down weeping. He left the place without saying a word but he returned tomorrow with a cheerful face. He was ready for action.  ABU1948

Regarding the episode of Badasht, although it is accurate, it is not detailed. The details are that Qurratu'l-Ayn was in one garden and Quddus was in another garden, but the Blessed Beauty was in a tent. The blessed tent and pavilion were between the two gardens beside a stream. The Blessed Beauty had told Quddus and Qurratu'l-Ayn that this Cause must be fully proclaimed. The next day the Blessed Beauty became ill. Quddus came and was sitting in the presence of the Blessed Beauty while all the friends were gathered in a circle around the tent. At this moment Qurratu'l-Ayn came out of the garden crying out and wailing, entered the tent and sat down. The Blessed Beauty said to recite the Surih of the Event. They recited the Surih of the Event in the blessed presence. Afterwards a great tumult arose - some fled, some wept and lamented, and some became agitated. Mulla Ismail cut his own throat and the gathering at Badasht dispersed.  AB01033
