One day in Germany, as I was walking down a street, I saw a girl who was half the size of Fujita (Fujita was a Japanese servant who had a very small frame and was very short in stature). I saw several tall men following this girl. I was very surprised and stopped in the street. I asked her what was happening and who these people were who were following her. She said, "These are my children." I said, "How could you, being so small, have given birth to such big children?" She said, "I taught them the Faith." Then, in a special tone, He said, "Behold the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty."  ABU2334

"To awaken spiritual love in others is to attain peace and joy for yourself."  ABU2917

Assuredly, when thou arisest to teach, confirmations will be vouchsafed unto thee.  AB08900

This blessed purpose of thine is the magnet of the confirmations of the Abha Kingdom.  AB03956

No endeavor receives confirmations like teaching, and no soul will succeed except the teacher  AB04075

whosoever shall arise in this Day to TEACH, know that he will be assisted by the Divine Concourse.  ABU2944

and know of a certainty that the confirmations of His Holiness BAHA'O'LLAH shall descend upon them  ABU1411

focus on teaching so that mighty confirmation may come and at every moment you may witness new favors   AB07094

Wonderful confirmation and complete assistance is destined for all the members of these various committees.  AB03593

Consider how every soul who has arisen to serve the Word of God will be confirmed with the heavenly Cohorts.  AB05140

"Teaching the Cause of God is the cause of life to the souls and a magnet for attracting Divine, Invisible aid."  AB06849

Therefore, blessed are those souls who arise to teach the Cause of God. By thy life, this is indeed a great bounty!   AB07273

This pure seed that thou hast sown shall yield many, many harvests and will produce most great results in the future.   AB05249

"Praise be to God, the confirmations of the Abha Kingdom arrived and thou didst become the cause of guidance to souls."  AB09513

Rest thou assured that thou wilt find such a confirmation that thou wilt become the envy of all the women of the world.  AB00466

Verily He will make thee a manifest example and an evident proof for the attainment of His Kingdom in this glorious century  AB05388

In the Book of God it is recorded that should a person embrace this Faith, his father and mother shall also receive forgiveness.  BHU0060

Soon we shall witness the fruits of this bestowal and bounty in the Most Glorious Kingdom, and whatever has been sown shall be reaped.   AB05035

This spiritual melody attracts divine inspirations and is the cause of heavenly confirmations...until you witness universal confirmations.  AB09223

Whoever arises for this will be assisted and confirmed by the hosts of the Supreme Concourse. Without this, no success will ever be achieved.   AB11477

All those who consecrate themselves to this work are accompanied by divine protection. [...] I pray that thou mayest be aided and strengthened.  AB08818

"it indicated the manifestation of the power of God's Cause in that land and the outstanding services of those firm in the Covenant and Testament"   AB07572

that thou mayest witness the victory of the hosts of the Supreme Concourse and behold the aid and triumph of the angels of the most glorious Kingdom  AB09207

the hosts of divine confirmation accompany him who speaks forth the Most Great Name... for thou art the object of the glance of favor of the Ancient Beauty  AB08887

Praise be to God, whosoever turneth toward Him is blessed in that moment, before it and after it, with God's mention and the attention of His merciful grace.   BH00351

When a person teaches the Cause he learns more than the pupil. From his heart will flow the fountains of explanations and the springs of marvelous utterances.   ABU2937

I hope that through the grace and bounty of the Lord you will attain comprehensive results and witness the unlimited rewards of this service in the Abha Kingdom.   AB05187

for teaching is the magnet of divine confirmation. Whoever arises to teach, the hosts of the Supreme Concourse will assist them, and this is an inevitable matter.   AB11688

If thou art of the people of this field (race-course) let loose the reins and rely upon the Merciful, and He will indeed assist thee with the hosts of the unseen at all times  AB05438

The doors of knowledge are opened before him, his eyes become seeing and he is assisted with the breaths of the Holy Spirit. He is guided himself and becomes the cause of guidance of others.  ABU0432

I hope you will fill the minds with the tumult and acclamation of the kingdom, set aglow the hearts with the fire of reality and spread far and wide the good news of the King of eternal life...   ABU2236

Now you should pray for them and supplicate confirmation and assistance for them that they may be able to promote the Word of God and be favored with the privilege of serving the world of humanity  ABU1276

whoever arises for it will receive the fragrant breezes of the Holy Shrine from afar and attain the station of a pilgrim. Divine confirmations will encompass them and heavenly assistance will be unveiled   AB04439

"The seekers flowed toward him and the thirsty ones hastened to drink from the water of his utterance...Help him by the hosts of the approximate angels, assist him by the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse"   AB00930

When one sows a seed in fertile soil, it will bear a hundredfold fruit. This Cause needs many teachers who sacrifice their soul, and those who arise to teach will see the confirmation increasing around them.  AB12198

"You will be confirmed; a great bounty will descend upon you. You will become eloquent. Your tongue will be loosed. Teach, always teach. The confirmations of the Holy Spirit will descend upon those who teach constantly."  ABU2514

Whenever I send some one to serve the Cause I pray in his behalf and God will help you. Rest thou assured that I will be with you and you will be enabled to render great services. Let thy heart be at ease and have no fear.  ABU2504

Should you be aided to render such a service, rest ye assured that your heads shall be crowned with the diadem of everlasting sovereignty, and at the threshold of oneness you will become the favored and accepted servants.   AB00218

Thy journey to any place is the cause of your progress and the promulgation of the Cause of God, because the confirmation of the Kingdom of Abha will reach continuously. No matter how long it may take, there will be no harm.  AB09914

When I entered a convention or a meeting I saw with my own eyes the confirmations of the Holy Spirit hovering like white-plumaged birds over my head and the Kingdom of existence with all its mighty forces coming to my assistance.   ABU1823

This service is highly acceptable in the court of the One and is the cause of drawing near to the Worshipped One. This is the station of those drawn nigh, this is following the Manifest Light, and this is a mercy to all the worlds.   AB05869

Now my purpose is to charge him with a mighty task, and my hope is that he will, as befitting, rise to fulfill it and be confirmed. He will light a lamp that will burn forever, kindle a fire that will consume the veils of multitudes.  AB08945

Praise be to God that their journey proved to be a cause of progress for the souls, that it produced harmony and accord, and that the friends of God and the handmaids of the Merciful received new enthusiasm and revitalization through it.  AB12311

This was the ultimate aim and desire of the ancient friends. Engaging in other matters is like building a house from spider's web, but this glorious purpose is like an eternal lofty palace and a divine foundation and gift of both worlds.   AB02704

So great are the things ordained for the steadfast that were they, so much as the eye of a needle, to be disclosed, all who are in heaven and on earth would be dumbfounded, except such as God, the Lord of all worlds, hath willed to exempt.  BH11200

the hosts of the Abha Kingdom in the Supreme Concourse have arranged their ranks and await the charging forth of souls in this field, so they may confirm and grant victory and open the cities of hearts with the keys of the Most Great Name.   AB02439

The more you advance in this important matter, the more divine confirmations and heavenly successes will become manifest and evident, to such a degree that you yourselves will be astonished. This is an assured matter and an unfailing promise.  AB02794

The confirmations of God, exalted be His glory, arrive successively, and that beloved one, praise be to God, is wholly engaged in His service and likewise recognizes the stations of grace and favor. Well is it with you and pleasant it is for you!   BH00390

Whosoever arises to spread the Word and performs this service, will behold the Doors of Confirmation are open wide before his face. Any person desiring to be surrounded by the Confirmation of the Blessed Perfection, must arise and teach the Cause.  ABU1958

Read them and ponder over them carefully, for if you are fully informed of the Cause of Baha'u'llah, then you will witness that the teachings of Baha'u'llah are the cause of the illumination of the world. They will bestow great joy upon the hearts.  ABU2203

Since your intention is good and your purpose is to serve the unity of the human world and spread the light of truth and abandon the prejudices of the world of nature, divine confirmations will surely reach you and you will be successful and assisted.  AB08184

Both letters brought joy to hearts, for the words of each were an eloquent tongue in the love of God and told of the attraction of the heart to the breaths of the Holy Spirit. Praise be to God that you have succeeded in raising the Word of God in Japan.  AB03697

By God, the True One, verily, the Sun of Truth will cast forth its lights in your assemblies and will make you shining lamps, glittering stars, brilliant signs, and as souls attracted to the Holy Spirit. This is the great prosperity! This is the manifest light!  AB01650

The Blessed Beauty, in unmistakable language, hath made this promise in His Book: We behold you from Our realm of glory, and shall aid whosoever will arise for the triumph of Our Cause with the hosts of the Concourse on high and a company of Our favored angels.  AB00240

Now is the time when no confirmations descend except for seed sowing. Whosoever sows seeds at this time is confirmed -- that is, whosoever teaches is confirmed. That means that whosoever sows the seeds of faith in the fertile soil of hearts, such a one is confirmed.   ABU0695

It is clear and evident that today the divine invisible confirmations encompass the teachers, and if teaching is delayed, confirmations will be entirely cut off, for it is impossible and inconceivable that the friends of God would receive confirmation without teaching.  AB01174

This is the means of the happiness of the believers of God! This is conducive to the confirmation of the friends of the True One! This is the source of their nearness to the Throne of the Almighty! This is the way through which the world and the inhabitants thereof are enlightened.  ABU2062

Praise be to God that the Bounty and Bestowal of the Blessed Perfection are with us; His Confirmations, His Spirituality, His Teachings, His advices and His Exhortations are with us. He had given us such an irresistible power that all the nations of the world cannot withstand it...   ABU1468

I ask and supplicate God to make you two convinced souls, to bring you forth with such a steadfastness that each of you may withstand the people of a country, and to intoxicate you with the wine of the love of God so that you may cause your hearers to dance, to be joyful and to exult.   AB04000

By God the Truth, the Holy Spirit breatheth into the mouth of every handmaiden who ariseth to make mention of Baha in this primal manifestation, confirmeth her with mighty strength, and maketh her the Greatest Sign of God. This is from the bounty of thy Lord, without merit or capacity.  AB11212

"I ask God to make him a sign of guidance and to guide, through him, souls (people) of his native land and of other people. Verily, my God chooses whomsoever He willeth, by His mercy and generosity, for entrance into the Kingdom of Glory and shineth the lights of (His) Beauty upon them."  AB04142

This tree that is planted in the realm of possibility will reach to the branches of the Supreme Concourse, becoming full of leaves and blossoms, laden with fruits, and these fruits will be scattered throughout the world of existence. One righteous deed becomes the cause of abundant bounty.   AB04860

The cause of teaching succeeds, succeeds most miraculously. When a Cause is confirmed it is evident and manifest from its signs. For example we say this earth is confirmed. Why? Because as the result of the downpour of rain and the shining of the sun it is covered with green plants and flowers.  ABU0397

For utterance and exposition, when arising from firmness in the Covenant, brings spirit and fragrance and becomes like the bounty of April showers. Thou seest the earth barren and lifeless, but when We send down rain upon it, it stirreth and swelleth and putteth forth every kind of beauteous growth.  AB11361

Your services at the Sacred Threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones - are accepted, your servitude is confirmed, confirmations follow one after another, divine success arrives in succession, the hosts of the Kingdom assist you, and the near angels are present  AB05186

Because this aim is heavenly, merciful and godlike, unquestionably it will display most great effect and will assist you in the service of the Kingdom of God. Rest ye assured in the Favor and Bounty of His Holiness Baha'u'llah; for His Grace is like unto the vernal showers and His Confirmation, the cohorts of heaven.  AB08031

That day news came of the spreading of the Cause and of the entrance into the Kingdom of some of the ministers in America. It made him very happy and he sent a number of tablets to America, saying: "My happiness is in these glad-tidings and victories. Praise be to God! the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abha are assisting.  ABU0553

in a short time thou shalt see the flag of the Kingdom waving in those far and wide regions, and the lights of the Truth shining brilliantly in its dawn above those horizons, and thou shalt know that thou art the center of the circle of the love of God, the axis around which souls revolve in their way and supplication to God  AB02171

Wherever we have been, praise be to God that the confirmations of the Blessed Perfection reached us and the victory of the Kingdom of Abha was vouchsafed. That is why he hath said: "We shall make victorious whosoever shall arise in the service of my Cause with a cohort from the Supreme Concourse and an army of the favoured Angels."  ABU0944

My greatest desire is the confirmation of Thy loved ones and chosen ones, they who are assisted by lofty attributes. My God, my God! Thou knowest my innermost heart and observest my conscience, that I have no wish save to witness the shining rays from the Kingdom of Thy confirmation upon Thy loved ones, and no desire except for the descent of the hosts of Thy victory and grace upon Thy servants.  AB05956

thou wilt find thyself assisted by the angels of heaven and the hosts of the Concourse on high. Thou wilt raise the banner of peace and sound the clarion of love and unity throughout those lands, guide the souls unto the wellspring of life, lead them unto the arena of true understanding, grant them to drink from the cup of certitude, quicken them with the breaths of the All-Merciful, attire them with the robe of bounty, and give them to quaff of the wine of faithfulness through the love of Baha.  AB02146

Were the friends to realize what a glorious sovereignty the Lord hath destined for them in His Kingdom, surely they would be filled with ecstasy, would behold themselves crowned with immortal glory and carried away with transports of delight. Erelong it shall be made manifest how brilliantly the light of His bountiful care and mercy hath shone upon His loved ones, and what a turbulent ocean hath been stirred in their hearts! Then will they clamour and exclaim: Happy are we; let all the world rejoice!  AB03646

Praise be to God, the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His promise - fulfilled all that He promised. He made the path smooth, turned the rocky ground into a level highway, spread the carpet of security and safety, and opened the way of justice and benevolence. He opened the gates of triumph and expanded confined hearts. He sent forth the hosts of the Abha Kingdom and dispatched the army of the Supreme Concourse. The waves of His confirmations arrived successively like ocean billows, and the ranks of the angels of divine success were arrayed.  AB00458

Whosoever arises to teach the Cause of God, kills nine birds with one stone. First: Proclamation of the Glad-tidings of the Kingdom of Abha. Second: Service to the Threshold of the Almighty. Third: His spiritual presence in this Court. Fourth: His perfection under the shade of the Standard of Truth. Fifth: The descent of the Bestowals of God upon him. Sixth: Bringing still nearer the age of fraternity and the dawn of Millenium. Seventh: Winning the divine approval of the Supreme Concourse. Eighth: The spiritual illumination of the hearts of humanity. Ninth: The education of the children of the race in the moral precepts of Baha'u'llah.  ABU0331

Today every soul who teaches is confirmed, and the teachers in the front ranks are near to the Threshold of Grandeur and assisted by the Abha Kingdom. Therefore, the friends of God must show the utmost love, respect and consideration to the teachers, and wherever they arrive, joy and gladness must result. As for the qualities of teachers, they are revealed in the divine Tablets - let them act according to those qualities. By God, besides Whom there is no God! If today even a weak gnat acquires the qualities of teachers and calls to the divine Kingdom, it will become a soaring celestial eagle, and a perishing fly will become a royal falcon of the All-Merciful heights.   AB00041
