Man's happiness has its source in the heart, not in the body.  ABU1280

the spiritual world dependeth not on physical nearness and remoteness  AB11016

the world of dust is narrow and dark, while the radiant world is vast and near  AB10477


The worlds of God are in perfect harmony and correspondence one with another. Each world in this limitless universe is, as it were, a mirror reflecting the history and nature of all the rest. The physical universe is, likewise, in perfect correspondence with the spiritual or divine realm. The world of matter is an outer expression or facsimile of the inner kingdom of spirit. The world of minds corresponds with the world of hearts.   ABU0049

No it is not a physical condition, but spiritual, a very high one which is so intense it reaches the nerves and these react upon the body. When one is spiritually developed, the body responds to spiritual conditions or emotions.  ABU3376

The human body is in need of material force, but the spirit has need of the Holy Spirit.   ABU3086

"Of course, they can see us and know everything we are doing, for that is the world or real sight and sense."   ABU3490

We are never cut off from those who are there. The real and genuine influence is not in this world but in that other.   ABU3450

Though we are distant in the world of dust, yet by virtue of the pure realm we are near, gathered in a single assembly.  AB08577

Time with us is measured by the sun. When there is no more sunrise, and no more sunset, that kind of time does not exist for man.   ABU0975

"He didn't understand You the other day, my Lord. He thinks that You teach asceticism, that the spirit and the flesh are two separate things."  "That is not what I said," the Master replied. "I said that the spiritual man and the materialist were two different beings. The spirit is in the flesh."   ABU3454

You will establish a connection between the divine realm and the material world, and become an intermediary between the realm of place and placelessness.   AB03747

Although the doors are closed and the ways and paths are cut off and the means of correspondence are lacking, yet spiritual connections and heartfelt bonds exist.  AB03985

Divine music exhilarates the Spirit while earthly music has an effect over the body. Divine music belong to the Kingdom of God; earthly music is of this mundane world.   ABU3104

in this physical world we are linked with one another, and God willing in the divine world, the realm of the Kingdom, we shall become intimate companions and confidants.   AB07400

From the intensity of its radiating rays, the inner and outer worlds, the realm of bodies and spirits, and the kingdom of truth and metaphor were brought to excitement and tumult.  AB03121

The body or the flesh was 'sorrowful and very heavy' because it loathed to be separated from the companionship of such a divine, celestial Spirit and be returned to clay and dust.  ABU1363

"there is no doubt the body and the mind act and react, the one on the other, and the mind can greatly aid and modify even the ills that are purely of a physical and outside origin."   ABU2421

If these material tendencies are in such need of reformation, how much greater the need in the world of the human spirit, the world of human thought, perception, virtues and bounties!  ABU0079

That is why while we are living in this world we are not informed of the existence of the Spiritual world but the dwellers of the Spiritual world know about us and can assist and help us.  ABU1154

Know ye that when this Temple of God shall be built in Chicago it will be to the spiritual body of the world what the inrush of the spirit is to the physical body of man, quickening it to its utmost parts and infusing a New Light and Power.  ABU1892

Although the pages of a book know nothing of the words and the meanings traced upon them, even so, because of their connection with these words, friends pass them reverently from hand to hand. This connection, furthermore, is purest bounty.   AB02947

Some material things have a spiritual effect. The spoken words cause a vibration which produces an effect upon the ear. This is material, but the effect is spiritual--that is, the spirit of man feels the effect--either of gladness or sadness.  ABU3428

Upon the canvas of creation with the brush of their deeds and [lives] and actions, they paint immortal pictures which cannot be found in any Art Museum of Europe and America but you find these masterpieces of these spiritual Artists in the hearts.  ABU2866

[The people] would prostrate themselves before the stones upon which the apostles had sat, and this is due to their connection with God and from the power of the persistence of their reality, such that even their sitting upon a stone has this effect.  ABU3310

They see all as it affects the spirit. A great joy, a great sorrow, a sin, or a good deed: as these things darken or cloud the soul, or cause it to rise into greater light, so they see every earth event that touches you for good or ill, reflected in your soul.  ABU3249

Some material things have spiritual effect, and the Mashrak-el-Azkar is a material thing that will have great effect upon the spirits of the people. Not only does the building of the Mashrak-el-Azkar have an effect upon those who build it, but upon the whole world.   ABU2684

In this world and the world beyond we Baha'is have but one goal: to live and to work for the Kingdom of God (Malakut-i-Allah). Immortal existence in the beyond is but a continuation of our life and work here, through other means, in other forms, in other surroundings.   ABU3351

In the western world material civilization has attained the highest point of development, but divine civilization was founded in the land of the East. The East must acquire material civilization from the West, and the West must receive spiritual civilization from the East.  ABU0006

When the material world and the divine world are well co-related, when the hearts become heavenly and the aspirations grow pure and divine, perfect connection shall take place. Then shall this power produce a perfect manifestation. Physical and spiritual diseases will then receive absolute healing.  AB09100

In this corporeal world, despite the separation of bodies, friends remain friends and intimate with each other. In the eternal world, then, which is the world of divine unity and heavenly oneness, friendship and spiritual intimacy are naturally among the essential requisites of that sanctified world.  AB09920

In the world of existence physical things have a connection with spiritual realities. One of these things is the voice, which connects itself with the spirit; and the spirit can be uplifted by this means -- for though it is a physical thing, it is one of the material, natural organizations -- therefore, it is effective.  ABU0474

Consider this, that a single world amongst those worlds is the spiritual world of man. Although it is hidden and concealed from the outward eye, yet to those possessed of inner vision, its presence and existence, its signs and traces, its effects and attributes, its power and influence, are as manifest, clear, and real as the sun.  AB03491

Besides this physical world the Easterner and the Westerner have been on good terms in the spiritual realm, and when they came from the world of the spirits to the physical world, fellowship becometh apparent again. But because there was no spiritual fellowship between the two brothers, they escape from each other in the physical world.   AB05930

Although music or an ordinary pleasing voice is of the physical realm, yet it has an effect upon the spirit. In the same manner, freshness and purity of the air, the atmosphere, the scenery and sweet fragrances impart joy, spirituality and comfort to the heart. Even though these are physical phenomena they have a great spiritual influence.  ABU2860

There are two kinds of order, temporal and spiritual; political and divine - and both are necessary and complementary. The political order illumines the world, while the divine order transforms hearts into a rose garden. The former maintains control and discipline over bodies, while the latter serves to protect, preserve and quicken spirits.  AB05320

Just in the same way, while in this material world those who know God do not realise the blessings which He has conferred upon them; nor do those who know Him not realise the deficiencies of their state, when they leave the world of men for the spiritual realms, the gifts which God has bestowed upon them will be revealed to those who attain to Him.  ABU0563

Do not all the Prophets teach: there are two worlds, a spiritual one - the Malakut-i-Allah - the realm of God - and a material world, the world of nature in the widest meaning. Well, in the physical world, in the realm of the material, the battle for existence - the struggle for a more-or-less bare subsistence - is the dominating undertone of everything.   ABU0069

Now this nearness is not confined to earthly regions - rather, the possible has drawn near to the impossible, the lowest center has drawn close to the Supreme Concourse, and connections have been established between the world of dust and the sacred realm. One end of the wire is fixed at the center of transmission and the other end in the Kingdom of the All-Forgiving Lord.   AB04679

This spiritual life of man is the cause of attaining eternal glory; the spiritual life of man is the cause of drawing near to God; the spiritual life of man is the cause of gaining admittance into the Kingdom of God; the spiritual life of man is the cause of obtaining universal virtues; the spiritual life of man is the cause of shedding illumination upon the world of humanity.  ABU0182

In brief, I have explained every proof and made clear every evidence that in the human world there is a spiritual power, there is an active spirit, and by this man is distinguished from that which is below man. Man shares with all beings in all degrees, but through the gift of spirit he is distinguished from all creation. This spirit is a breath of the divine breaths and a ray from the Sun of Reality.  ABU0240

The powers of the sympathetic nerve are neither entirely physical nor spiritual, but are between the two systems. The nerve is connected with both. Its phenomena shall be perfect when its spiritual and physical relations are normal. When the material world and the divine world are well co-related, when the hearts become heavenly and the aspirations grow pure and divine, perfect connection shall take place.  AB09100

Take another example: These members of man move through the power of the spirit. If there were no spirit, no members could move. When all those members are perfect, the movements are in order. The spirit causes this orderly motion. But if an illness affects the hand the movement is impaired. For instance, he wishes to move the fingers to one side, but they go to the other, owing to paralysis. Whether the movement be normal or abnormal, both are from the spirit.   ABU0261

Moreover you have asked about the link between the material world and the spiritual world. You have stated that since there was a link between the mineral and the vegetable kingdoms and one between the vegetable and animal kingdoms, such a link may also exist between the material and the spiritual worlds after ascension. Know thou of a certainty that the soul is exalted above time and place and that this intervening stage is also spiritual by nature, wholly detached from the contingent world.  AB11857

In whatever time and place it may have risen, time and place have authority in the physical world, not the divine realm. Especially time, which is relative - the world of existence is eternal, meaning one day without beginning or end. These times are relative to the motions and rising and setting of celestial bodies. Day and month and year have reality but do not exist - that is, year and month and days are fixed but do not exist, like directions such as east and west and south and north which are fixed but do not exist.  AB01846

