God has appointed provision for every living creature. To birds He has given beaks so that they may pick up seeds. To animals such as cows and goats He has given teeth like scythes in order that they may eat grass. To carnivores He has given claws like forks and canine teeth so that they may prey because they cannot eat grass. Their food is meat. But man's food is not meat for he has not been created with means to eat flesh. God has given him beauty of form and has created him blessed and not rapacious and bloodthirsty.  ABU1819

If humans could be content with vegetables for food, it would be better, since man's food is vegetable. But due to entrenched habits, it is not possible for people to not eat meat... They all feel pain - the boiling of water and the cry of sheep and cattle both indicate the feeling of pain and death.  ABU1158

it is impossible for humans not to consume animals, since in every water, plant and fruit there exist animals which humans cannot avoid consuming - the only difference is in degree of strength and weakness  ABU3023

Man's formation of teeth is structurally different. He has molars for grinding hard substances, incisors which are adapted for cutting vegetables; and the canines and the bicuspids are not made for meat-eating. Thus it is manifest that in the creation of God man is not endowed with carnivorous instruments; his food does consist of nuts, vegetables and other produce of the vegetable Kingdom.   ABU0371

Truly, the killing of animals and the eating of their meat is somewhat contrary to pity and compassion, and if one can content oneself with cereals, fruit, oil and nuts, such as pistachios, almonds and so on, it would undoubtedly be better and more pleasing.   AB01104

Sometimes material food confers spiritual sustenance and strength.  ABU3628

The Bab hath said that the people of Baha must develop the science of medicine to such a high degree that they will heal illnesses by means of foods  AB00162

When highly skilled physicians shall fully examine this matter, thoroughly and perseveringly, it will be clearly seen that the incursion of disease is due to a disturbance in the relative amounts of the body's component substances, and that treatment consisteth in adjusting these relative amounts, and that this can be apprehended and made possible by means of foods.... At whatever time highly skilled physicians shall have developed the healing of illnesses by means of foods, and shall make provision for simple foods, and shall prohibit humankind from living as slaves to their lustful appetites, it is certain that the incidence of chronic and diversified illnesses will abate, and the general health of all mankind will be much improved. This is destined to come about. AB00162

Q: What will be the food of the future?  A: Fruit and grains. The time will come when meat will no longer be eaten. Medical science is only in its infancy, yet it has shown that our natural diet is that which grows out of the ground. The people will gradually develop up to the condition of this natural food. ABU3261

At the table on board the Cedric Abdul-Baha spoke about simple diet—how much better it is for one's constitution to eat but one or two courses. One of the American Bahais asked him whether he would not prescribe a simple regime of diet for the believers, upon his arrival in America. He laughed heartily and said: "We do not interfere with their material food, but we shall give them a simple diet of spiritual food. This is our work."  ABU3478

the Blessed Beauty stated that if someone does not slaughter animals and is content with vegetables it is certainly better, but He did not prohibit it  ABU3023

Meats that are desirable and wholesome may be eaten, while abhorrent meats are forbidden. The House of Justice must determine this according to wisdom. And if one were to be satisfied with vegetarian food, that would certainly be closer to mercy and compassion.   AB03552

Question: What is the relative effect of vegetable and animal foods upon the mind of man or spirit of man? 'Abdu'l-Baha said: "It has no effect. It does not develop the mind to subsist upon a vegetable diet. A man can be without reason or understanding, though he does not eat meat or flesh, and again one eats flesh but his mind is very sharp. The more man avoids hurting the animal the better. It is very strange that a man should kill an animal for his food, but since meat is in the market one buys it. It is indeed very grievous to kill a lamb or other animal for one's food, for the feelings of an animal are just as great as our own. As by the slightest injury, for example, a thorn-prick, the man will cry out: how much more grievous is it to kill an animal."  ABU2764

If one can content oneself with vegetables for one's sustenance, this would be preferable, for the food of humanity consists in vegetables. However, given the great extent to which people have become accustomed to their ways of life, it is not possible for them to abstain from eating animals.  ABU3680

This kind of food is not Persian. It is European, except that there is one Persian dish - the sweetened rice. At first there were no potatoes in Persia. This is something new with the Persians-imported from Europe. At first the Persians did not take kindly to the potato, saying it was an apple of Europe, because of their fanaticism.  ABU1857

I said, What is kosher that you may eat? Is bread kosher? He said yes. I said, Are sugar, water and lemon juice kosher? He said yes. I said, Are eggs kosher? He said, If I boil them, yes they are kosher. They brought a coffee pot and I gave him boiled eggs to eat. He said, I must boil them myself. They boiled the coffee pot again and he himself cooked the eggs and ate them.  ABU0910

While I was in America one of the believers by the name Mon. Bourgeois of New York City who is a vegetarian invited me to dinner. Such nutritious dishes were prepared with nuts and vegetables and rice that any one could easily dispense with meat-eating. I said to Mon and Madame Bourgeois of you can concoct such delicious dishes with vegetables and nuts I can assure you many people will join your crusade against slaughtering animals and eating their flesh.   ABU0371

If one should wholly abstain from meat and be contented with vegetables, it would be much better. And how difficult it is for a man to kill an animal and to prepare the food for himself. But as it is already killed and we find it in the market, we buy it. As it is now killed, it is better to take and eat it than to leave it to become out of use. But it is very hard for a soul to take a lamb and kill it and make out of it a certain dish for a meal. If the people could bear it, the prophets would prohibit the eating of flesh.  ABU0714

Concerning the four teeth of man that you wrote about - two in the upper jaw and two in the lower jaw being carnivorous - know that these four teeth were not created for eating meat, though meat can be eaten with them. Rather, all human teeth are for consuming fruits, grains and vegetables. Those four teeth are for certain hard things like almonds and such, as canine teeth are necessary for breaking these. Eating meat is not forbidden, but the point is that man can live without meat and gain strength and ability. Meat contains strength and is the essence of plants, grains and fruits. Therefore, when necessary, it is beneficial for the sick and for strengthening the weak. Thus there is no prohibition in divine law against eating it when needed.  AB03370

If someone has never eaten meat and is not used to it, even passing by a butcher shop, the smell of meat is so bad and offensive that it disturbs them. But those who are accustomed to it hardly notice. And the Blessed Beauty, considering that humanity has become accustomed to eating meat and it has become very common, did not forbid it, but said humans were not created to be meat-eaters... Man was not created to eat meat. Animals created for meat-eating do not have grinding molars for grinding grains, nor the special teeth for cutting grass, but rather they have curved teeth only for cutting meat, and they have claws for seizing and killing prey, and they have the strength to pounce. And the birds that eat meat (like the falcon, eagle, and hawk) have an upper beak that is long and a lower one that is short, making it impossible to eat grains and plants, and they have a small crop and talons, and for this reason they are compelled to eat meat.  ABU0329

In the beginning of creation, God determined the food of every living being, and to eat contrary to that determination is not approved. For instance, beasts of prey, such as the wolf, lion and leopard, are endowed with ferocious, tearing instruments, such as hooked talons and claws. From this it is evident that the food of such beasts is meat. If they were to attempt to graze, their teeth would not cut the grass, neither could they chew the cud, for they do not have molars. Likewise, God hath given to the four-footed grazing animals such teeth as reap the grass like a sickle, and from this we understand that the food of these species of animal is vegetable. They cannot chase and hunt down other animals. The falcon hath a hooked beak and sharp talons; the hooked beak preventeth him from grazing, therefore his food also is meat. But now coming to man, we see he hath neither hooked teeth nor sharp nails or claws, nor teeth like iron sickles. From this it becometh evident and manifest that the food of man is cereals and fruit. Some of the teeth of man are like millstones to grind the grain, and some are sharp to cut the fruit. Therefore he is not in need of meat, nor is he obliged to eat it.   AB01104

The truth is that it is not befitting for man to be carnivorous. However, man has accustomed himself to such a life and now it has become routine and acceptable. That is why its prohibition is not advisable at present. ABU3299

Concerning the food. Whenever in a healthy condition and with appetite one is hungry, he must eat and partake of the food with the utmost thankfulness. This is Divine Standard!   AB01119

During the time this servant was with Jinab-i Nabil, we each drank nine glasses of tea -- six glasses in the afternoon and three glasses in the morning. From this blessed exposition, this servant has reduced the amount of tea and from that time till now I use white tea.  BHU0026
