
Some of the friends must establish bonds of fellowship with the prominent people of the country and show them utmost love  AB08004

"They should be kind to all people and embrace all religions with spirit and fragrance."   AB11653

Address yourselves to the promotion of the well-being and tranquillity of the children of men. Bend your minds and wills to the education of the peoples and kindreds of the earth, that haply the dissensions that divide it may, through the power of the Most Great Name, be blotted out from its face, and all mankind become the upholders of one Order, and the inhabitants of one City. Illumine and hallow your hearts; let them not be profaned by the thorns of hate or the thistles of malice. Ye dwell in one world, and have been created through the operation of one Will. Blessed is he who mingleth with all men in a spirit of utmost kindliness and love.  BH06328


The friends of God must associate with the spirit of friendship with other souls and show to them infinite love and tenderness.  AB04213

Should thou find those from whose hearts waft the sweet savors of the Beloved, associate with them and show humility toward them.  BH03325

"If someone becomes disheartened, give them importance and by whatever means warm their hearts and bring them into your circle."   AB04336

I beseech God that the friends may become renowned throughout all regions for their cooperation and mutual assistance among strangers and kin.  AB12808

If with this state of severance they associated with mankind, teaching them the precepts of sanctity and purity, each one of them would have shone forth like unto a sun.  ABU0496

Man must exercise fellowship and love in order to prove that he is distinguished above the animal kingdom. If he engage in strife and warfare he is no better than the animal.   ABU0657

In order to thank God for this most great guidance, consort with all the people with the utmost joy and happiness, so that ye may become the recipients of the glances of Providence.   AB02658


Yes, any outward differences and hostilities are as nothing when compared with harmony and love and unity among men.   AB00433

the friends of God should weave bonds of fellowship with others and show absolute love and affection towards them   AB04113

If you belong to a Society already do not forsake your brothers.  ABU2303

I will not fall short in faithfulness to anyone in the path of Baha   AB05863

We meet with every seeker with perfect sincere love   ABU3020

Be kind to all souls  AB05584

Mingle with all people  AB04501

Deal with the servants with utmost love, fellowship, affection and unity, that perchance the sleeping ones may awaken and turn towards the Friend.  BH07225

when Abdul-Baha inquired the condition and the association of the friends, it was intimated that unlike the days gone by the friends are intimately associating with all the people of every shade and opinion, of every sect, and social standing. "Such is the way that must be adopted, for only through intimate association will the friends be able to teach and sow a seed in the heart of a seeker. The flower must be brought close and near in order to inhale its scent and fragrance."  ABU1905


Be kind to thy fellowmen.   ABU3416

Be kind to friend and stranger alike.   AB06661

Consort with all religions with joy and fragrance.  BH10069

We are commanded to associate with all the people.  ABU1295

associate with all in a spirit of fragrance and joy   BH06866

who consort with all men in a spirit of friendliness   BH06698

"Deal with all peoples and religions with utmost kindness."  AB05277

"Consort with all the peoples of the world with utmost love."  BH08563

Likewise, be infinitely kind to the people and neighboring farms.  AB01352

Associate with all the peoples of the world with the utmost love.   BH04831

and associate with every friend who calls thee to thy Glorious Lord  AB10694

Associate with the followers of all religions with joy and fragrance.  BH11645

be kind and benevolent to every one, sympathetic and compassionate to all   AB02575

Associate with all people, keeping your gaze fixed upon the horizon of grace   BH06678

Let us all be humble before the signs of God and treat each other as brothers.   ABU2699

deal with all humanity with love, kindness and the attributes of the All-Merciful  AB04367

people will live in friendliness, kindness and love which will bring forth unity.  ABU3401

Therefore as much as you can be ye kind towards one another and likewise to others.  ABU2302

Show kindness to human temples as much as you can, bestow affection upon every person  AB10658

Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship.   BH01592

so that all may associate and conduct themselves with utmost kindness toward all people   AB01176

and indicating submission in all conditions and tranquility and love and friendship with all.  AB01545

We should associate with all peoples and religions of the world with perfect love and oneness  ABU1751

Consequently be ye kind toward each other, associate with one another, assist and help one another.  ABU2204


He said we must consider all people--not only believers--to be good. He hoped every one would be good.  ABU3218

Be kind and gentle with all the people of the world and serve and assist everyone with the utmost love.  AB08881

This is the time for gladness and the season for friendship and kindness toward all peoples and nations.  AB07301

Act with complete detachment and sanctity, and with the utmost kindness toward all peoples of the world.   AB01050

Be kind to the people of the world, whether friends or enemies, and become well-wishers to all.  AB00901

According to the command of the Blessed Beauty, I associate with all people in a spirit of joy and fragrance  ABU2548

Blessed is he who associates with all with joy and fragrance, for he has obeyed the commands of Baha'u'llah.   ABU3107

Deal with the loved ones of God with the utmost kindness and strive to bring them joy to the extent possible.  AB04454

Associate with all the peoples of the world with utmost love and kindness, especially with the friends of God.   BH01167

always engage in joy and delight and happiness and gladness and fellowship and love with friend and stranger alike   AB01554

Consort with all peoples with joy and fragrance, then remind them of that which ye possess of wisdom and utterance.   BH04497

This Wronged One's counsel is that all associate with the servants of God in the utmost spirit of joy and fragrance.  BH00324

Consort with the people in a spirit of amity and concord, and be unto them a loyal counsellor and a loving companion.  BH04864

When ye meet anyone, consort with them in a spirit of fragrance and joy. Thus doth the Lord of all mankind command you   BH04573

teach all the peoples of the world the mores of love, and show everyone kindliness and friendship, sympathy and courtesy  AB02575

We must have sympathy for all beings, and to have real sympathy means to feel with others in their higher aims and ideals.   ABU3417

mix with people, and deal with all in perfect kindness, gentleness and oneness. Love all people and be loving to all humanity.  AB02115

The duty of you and all the friends in Beirut is to show love, consideration, generosity, humanity and kindness to all people.   AB06710

Show such kindness to all people of all nations that praise and acclamation may reach the ears of the soul from the Abha Kingdom.   AB03922

However the Baha'is are commanded to be kind and loving toward all mankind, irrespective of race or color, religion or nationality.  ABU2073

Treat thy friends and relatives in general with the utmost kindness and love; (deal in like manner) even with strangers (or outsiders).   AB01410

Therefore, treat all humanity with goodly character, and conduct yourselves with the utmost tenderness, grace and favor toward all people.  AB01427

Verily I beseech God to assist thee with the spirit of knowledge and enable thee to be good and benevolent to all the people of religions.  AB04936

with spirit, heart, inner heart, soul, consciousness and conscience, I am occupied with remembrance of the loved ones of the All-Merciful   AB05784

We do not look at the evil deeds of the people. We do not consider the race, the religion or nationality. We do our utmost to help everyone.  ABU3105

They must show the utmost kindness to one another, and likewise show perfect mercy and generosity to others, associate with all in utmost love  AB03347

Truth, friendship, peace and reconciliation with all the peoples of the world are requirements of worship of Truth in this Most Glorious Cycle.   AB05094

Be kind to all peoples of the world and wish well for all nations. Serve and show love to the world of humanity and be the cause of human happiness.  AB00653

Praise be to God that during these years of war, the friends in Baku were at peace with all peoples and, following divine teachings, were kind to all.   AB01719

Among other things, he can engage in service, establish bonds of fellowship with everyone, and with the utmost spirituality make strangers into friends.  AB09642

The loved ones of God must be a mercy to all mankind and loving towards all humanity. They must associate with everyone in a spirit of joy and fragrance   AB05624

It behooveth thee to be content with the Will of God, and a true and loving and trusted friend to all the peoples of the earth, without any exceptions whatever.  AB04591

Man must associate with all mankind with joy and fragrance. He must not turn away his face from any soul. He must treat with kindness both the friend and the stranger.  ABU3473

O My loved ones! Consort with the peoples of the world in a spirit of joy and fragrance, that perchance they may detect the sweet-scented breeze of the divine utterance   BH07592

For we are all lovers of the face of the Beloved...and that is the love of the Lord God and fellowship with all the peoples of the world and kindness to all created beings  AB03518

When any of the friends associate with the heedless ones, they should, with utmost kindness and joy, become the cause of their awareness and the means of their remembrance.  AB02358

Now you Persian friends must concentrate your thoughts on divine conduct and kindness toward humanity and godly behavior, so that it may produce great effects in this world.  AB03512

Consort with all the people in love and fragrance. Fellowship is the cause of unity, and unity is the source of order in the world. Blessed are they who are kind and serve with love.  BH06012

If you meet those of different race and colour from yourself, do not mistrust them and withdraw yourself into your shell of conventionality, but rather be glad and show them kindness.  ABU0491

They look upon all humanity with utmost love, even if they fall into danger. They show faithfulness to the oppressor; if they are harmed, they seek comfort and blessing for the tyrant.   AB01977

O people of God! Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of fragrance and fellowship. This is a word We have formerly revealed from the kingdom of My wondrous utterance.   BH00321

It is through the blessings of the counsels and teachings of the Blessed Beauty that they associate with all people with utmost love and kindness, they harbor no ill will toward anyone.   ABU2569

Therefore, in all cities the friends of God should welcome him and show the utmost respect and consideration, so that it may be observed how kind and appreciative the friends of God are.   AB11891

How do they expect to teach and become strong in their faith if they do not come in contact with men? In their hands they are holding the glass of the Water of Life; is not the world thirsty?  ABU2180

The people of Baha who have drunk the pure wine of reality must associate with all the world with a perfect spirit of joy and fragrance and remind them of that which is for the benefit of all.  BH10511

O My loved ones! Consort with the peoples of the world with spirit and fragrance, that perchance they may perceive the sweet savors of the utterance and attain unto that which God hath desired.  BH07937

The divine friends must employ all means to become friendly with strangers, that is, show the utmost kindness so that the stranger becomes familiar and the deprived one becomes privy to secrets.  AB03856

They must associate with all people with the spirit of fellowship and with love and affection. Love is God's light among His creation; through it every light appears and the world is illumined by it.  BH00594

"In the Most Holy Book, which hath been sent down from God's holy kingdom, this blessed verse hath been recorded: 'Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship.'"  BH01138

"As long as thou canst, wish thou the most great peace for mankind: Associate with all in perfect love and kindness; hold all dear and count all friends and familiar ones; know no enemies; imagine no strangers"   AB06848

Blessed is he who associateth with all peoples in a spirit of utmost kindliness and good-fellowship, and telleth them of this announcement with which every mighty book and every perspicuous tablet hath been adorned.   BH07196

Associate, O My loved ones, with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship. Beware lest ye make God's Word an occasion for your disputation or a cause for manifesting hatred among you.   BH00359

"Associate with the followers of all religions, O My loved ones, in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship. Beware lest ye make the Word of God the cause of your differences or a pretext for manifesting hatred among you."  BH00355

Be kind to all strangers. Those who come from all parts of the world, make them feel at home. Speak to those from Turkey, Japan, Persia, China, all countries, find out where they live, ask if you can be of service to them.  ABU0653

Let us associate with all peoples with the utmost truthfulness, trustworthiness, love and faithfulness. Let us be a remedy for every ill and a healing balm for every wound of heart and soul. Let us be kind to all humanity.  AB12275

Associate with all the peoples of the world with the utmost spirit, fragrance, dignity and composure, that your goodly character may spread its fragrance among them. This fragrance hath ever been and shall ever remain a guide.  BH00349

As far as thou art able, show kindness to all people and manifest love. Choose the path of friendship, truthfulness and reconciliation, that thou mayest become the very soul of the friends and thy radiant love may shine forth.  AB08963

Therefore, one must be faithful and kind to all humanity. Lack of truthfulness and uprightness, and absence of devotion to truth are reprehensible, forbidden and condemned, whether with friend or stranger, loved one or enemy.   AB00084

Whenever these people mention each other's leaders with due reverence then all sufferings and contentions shall cease and instead of hatred there will be love and instead of enmity and disunity there will be harmony and affection.  ABU3321

All must associate with the peoples of the world with radiant faces and illumined hearts, that perchance they may hearken from the people of Truth, glorified be His majesty, that which conduceth to maturity, attainment, and guidance.  BH01740

We counsel you and those who believe in that whereby the Cause of God, the Supreme, the Self-Subsisting, is exalted. Associate with different groups with utmost love and fellowship. Rancor and hatred have ever been and remain condemned.  BH02238

Be a refuge and shelter for strangers, and grant those who are alone assistance and support. Be a remedy for every pain and a balm for every wound. Become intimate with all peoples of the world and a respected companion to all nations.   AB02998

In any case, show the utmost kindness to the people in that village. Pay no heed to their turning away, objections, exaggeration and pride. Show kindness to all for the sake of God. Assuredly this will have an effect and thou wilt find companions.  AB05614

In thy letter mention was made of the Chief Secretary. After perusal, We desired to make mention of him, inasmuch as in the Most Holy Book this blessed verse hath been revealed: "Consort with the followers of all religions with joy and fragrance."   BH01599

Therefore, be loving towards all humanity and engage in kindness to humankind. Do not complain about anyone and do not reproach anyone. Associate with all with the utmost joy, love, fellowship, good conduct, gentleness, truthfulness and trustworthiness.  AB03706

the friends must, in accordance with divine counsels and exhortations, show kindness to all peoples and communities of the world - nay rather, sacrifice their lives, so that this darkness of enmity and hatred may be transformed into the light of divine love.   AB02103

One must deal with all human beings of whatever religion or group with the utmost friendship, truthfulness, trustworthiness, godliness, fellowship and unity... Rather, we must sacrifice ourselves for strangers, let alone friends; we must worship others, let alone loved ones.  AB00414

Today all must hold fast unto wisdom and cling to that which hath been revealed from the Divine Pen. They must associate with the people of the world with the utmost joy and fragrance, act purely for the sake of God and with their gaze fixed upon Him in whatsoever they have been commanded.   BH01416

they must not look to human worthiness, but rather turn their attention to the favors of the Glorious Lord. They must regard all creation as His creatures and consider them worthy of every bounty, consideration, protection, preservation and kindness. They must make no distinctions whatsoever  AB12383

He hath commanded that all should associate with the followers of all religions in the utmost spirit of joy and fragrance, that perchance those who have gone astray may turn toward the horizon of the All-Merciful and become free and delivered from darkness, error, and the desires of self and passion.   BH00549

Be kind and deal with bad people not harshly but leave them alone. Do not mix with them. There are many bad people in the world - have nothing to do with them - do not gossip about them. It must be so that your very silence should be blame itself. Do not spoil your tongue with the mention of evil people.  ABU2107

According to the explicit text of the Kitab-i-Aqdas it is "Associate with all religions with joy and fragrance." The intention of this verse is that the people of Baha should have no ill will or animosity toward any group, but should act with love toward all, not considering others unclean or avoiding them.  AB00629

One of the most necessary and at the same time difficult things in this Cause is amicable association with the outsiders. Only through the constant widening of the circle of one's acquaintances and friends the Truth will be made known and the principles proclaimed. Save this there will be found no other way.  ABU2180

O dear maid-servant of the Truth! Deal with all people with utmost love and do not fall short in whatever lies within your power. Be a loving mother to children, a faithful daughter to the elderly, a dear sister to your peers, a shelter and support to the helpless, and strive to guide all to the extent possible.  AB11183

Man must always associate with those from whom he can get light, or be with those to whom he can give light. He must either receive or give instructions. Otherwise, being with people without these two intentions, he is spending his time for nothing, and, by so doing, he is neither gaining nor causing others to gain.  ABU1279

The marriage of the Baha'is was also performed according to Christian rites, so that the world may know that the people of Baha are not confined by trivial customs, that they respect all nations and their peoples, that they are free from all prejudices and associate with all religions with utmost peace and happiness.  ABU1372

Therefore you must seek fellowship with all people and pursue friendship with all nations. Do not object to anyone, do not cause anyone to be hurt. Win hearts and free souls from snares and traps. Rather, be well-wishers to ill-wishers and become heart and soul friends to enemies. Consider strangers as familiar and others as friends.  AB00549

Another submission of this ephemeral one is that you should treat people with the utmost fellowship and kindness so that the odors of discord may be eliminated, for discord's harm affects the very root of the Cause. This matter has caused sorrow to the Blessed Heart, and the harm of no deed has equalled or will equal the harm of discord.   BH01005

For one another must ye give up even life itself. To every human being must ye be infinitely kind. Call none a stranger; think none to be your foe. Be ye as if all men were your close kin and honoured friends. Walk ye in such wise that this fleeting world will change into a splendour and this dismal heap of dust become a palace of delights.  AB00175

O people of Baha! Associate with the followers of all religions with joy and fragrance. If ye possess a word or gem of which others are deprived, share it with them in a language of utmost kindliness and goodwill. If it be accepted and be effective, the purpose is achieved; if not, leave him to himself and pray for him, but do not molest him.   BH00272

In any case, the divine friends in those regions and frontiers must associate with all souls with utmost radiance, love and kindness, and must not look to the shortcomings, laxity and veils of souls. They must be loving to all humanity, become sons to elderly people, take on the role of father to youths, and become kind brothers to peers and equals.   AB01208

Therefore, one must purify one's vision and not regard the limitations and conditions of creation. Whether obedient or disobedient, one must consider all people as God's servants, and whether human or inhuman, must regard all as God's creation and must treat all accordingly. O friends of God! Serve humanity with utmost joy and radiance, and show forth love to all mankind.  AB00095

Love one another as much as ye can, cherish each other, associate even with strangers, nurture every stubborn denier, and bestow fitting grace and favor freely. This is the way of the people of Baha, this is the path of those firm in the Covenant, this is the attribute of those who love the Beloved of the horizons, this is the manner of those attracted to the Kingdom of Splendors.   AB00076

Now such mirrors as have been deprived should not be alienated or estranged; they should not be considered as enemies or treated like wild animals. Rather, relate to them with utmost love and kindliness, look upon them as members of the human family, recognise them as friends and not as aliens, show them sympathy and consolation in order to educate and lead them to spiritual qualities  AB00652

Consort with all men, O people of Baha, in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship. If ye be aware of a certain truth, if ye possess a jewel, of which others are deprived, share it with them in a language of utmost kindliness and goodwill. If it be accepted, if it fulfill its purpose, your object is attained. If anyone should refuse it, leave him unto himself, and beseech God to guide him. Beware lest ye deal unkindly with him.  BH00005

This matter is most praiseworthy. In the Kitab-i-Aqdas, all are permitted to associate with different groups, and association with rulers and officials is permissible for several beneficial purposes. Through such association, oftentimes an oppressed one may find deliverance, or a prisoner may be freed, and perchance words may be spoken that cause awakening. Association with such persons is a hundred thousand times preferable to association with the heedless divines and theologians.   BH00966

Therefore, with divine strength, heavenly resolve, merciful intention, and spiritual qualities, associate with all people in every land with love, kindness and righteous conduct. For in this glorious Dispensation, the divine bounty is all-encompassing and triumph complete. All conduct and behavior must be universal, not particular - there are no exceptions. Man is commanded to show justice, fairness, trustworthiness, nobility, love, truthfulness, fellowship, consideration, protection and kindness towards all the peoples of the world.  AB02952

Wisdom requires that they deal with the divines and the descendants of the Prophet with love, as love may guide some to the straight path. Avoidance and distance have been and are the cause of estrangement. In the Most Holy Book He says, blessed and exalted be His utterance: Consort with the followers of all religions with joy and fragrance. Thus hath the light of Our guidance shone forth from the horizon of wisdom and utterance. Hold ye fast unto it. This is the command which the All-Wise, the Faithful, hath revealed from His Most Great Prison.  BH11694

Be ye manifestations of the mercy of God, dawning-places of the light of His great bounty, and arise with all steadfastness, truthfulness, trustworthiness, compassion, modesty, love and accord with the people of the world, no matter of what community they may be; inasmuch as it behooveth the light to shine even upon the rocks in the field, and the soul is qualified for quickening individuals, even though they be of the ugliest and most disagreeable form, and a pure tree is adapted to bestow a blessed fruit even upon those who throw stones at it.  AB02318

"Therefore the friends must consider strangers as friends and regard those outside as inside. They must consider the deprived ones as confidants, bestow melody upon the melody-less, regard the wayward as people of guidance, make no distinction between them."  AB01513

show the utmost love and kindness to all religions  AB06571

Human beings deserve respect, especially strangers.   AB06018

[When Abbas Effendi was specifically asked as to the fate of those millions of human beings who would never hear of Beha Ullah - whether they were, for that reason, to be regarded as hopelessly lost - he replied:] "No. The birth of our Lord was for all; those who shall know of Him and those who shall not. The Spirit is the same everywhere. Under whatsoever name men address Him, He will respond to their call."  Asked, further, about the heathen - those devoutly and sincerely kneeling before stone images - he answered: "They too will be heard, and God will protect them."  ABU3366

Contend not with anyone, nor deny any soul's rights.  BH08693

One must show utmost love and kindness to the followers of all religions  ABU1427

Its gates will be flung wide to mankind; prejudice towards none, love for all.  ABU1892


In this Baha'i Dispensation, kindness, mercy and loving-kindness are among the fundamental principles of the divine teachings. Be good-natured and cheerful, sweet-scented and attractive, truthful in speech - these are the requirements of kindness. Be as a son to the elderly, a father to the youth, and a brother to your peers. The purpose is that you should seek with heart and soul the comfort and well-being of all people, and pursue the joy and happiness of humanity. AB09532



Blessed is he who loves the world simply for the sake of the face of his generous Lord.  BH11363

Strive with heart and soul to establish the utmost love and kindness among human beings  AB12313

become loving friends to all humanity and a joy to the hearts and souls of all the world   AB03812

Be loving towards all creation and wish well for all humanity. Be at peace with everyone and deal truthfully with all  AB08605

Blessed is the soul who reclines upon his couch while his heart is illumined with love for all the peoples of the world.   BH11502

I love all, especially the poor. All sorts of people come here and I meet them all with sincere love, with heart and soul.  ABU3153

Until love appears among men, there can be no full happiness and peace. We must therefore foster brotherhood and universal love.  ABU2926

loving toward all humanity, beholding the Most Sublime Vision, the manifestation of mercy and the sign of love for all created things.  AB07721

Ask and pray to God that thou mayest become an enkindled lamp, to shed light upon the assembly, to become a lover of men and a well-wisher of human kind  AB09099

In former ages and cycles, the command of love and non-resistance had been revealed. But there was a pretext among the people, - "merit" and "de-merit." They would say this person is contumacious and a hypocrite and that person is blood-thirsty and cruel. And if any one practiced forgiveness that forgiveness was coupled with blame and reproach. But in this dispensation, all these pretexts are dispelled and real love and kindness with all the soul and heart to all the nations of the earth is the absolute law.  AB09120


"The birth of our Lord was for all; those who shall know of Him and those who shall not. The Spirit is the same everywhere. Under whatsoever name men address Him, He will respond to their call."  ABU3366

We must love all humanity as the children of God. Even if they kill us, we must die with love for them. It is not possible for us to love everybody with a personal love, but we must love all humanity alike.  ABU1872

but rather be as the rain of divine mercy which falleth upon every soil, as the rays of the sun which shine upon both garden and refuse heap alike, and as the breeze of springtime which bloweth over both flower and thorn  AB12383

Let those who meet you know without your saying so that you are a Bahai. You must manifest the most sincere love for all. Your hearts must burn with love for all. Let the people see that you are filled with universal love.  ABU0653

It is easy for us to love a friend or even an animal, but how difficult to love one who is without attraction. Yet if the Love of God is shining in our hearts, we, like Christ, may see that Love reflected in every personality, and love all alike.  ABU2911

One must show love and compassion to all the peoples of the world with utmost joy, gladness and delight. No distinction or preference should be made. However, in all dealings, trustworthiness, truthfulness, faith, compassion, kindliness and care must be shown equally to all humanity   AB05855

We do not look at the evil deeds of the people. We do not consider the race, the religion or nationality. We do our utmost to help everyone. The inhabitants of these parts know this and therefore whenever they are in difficulties or have had business reverses they come to us and we will never send them away unaided or deprived.  ABU3105

If you love your country, love it not with the narrow feeling that it must be loved because it is yours alone, but with the greater consciousness that your home is a part of the universe. If you love brother or comrade or wife, love each one as a part of God, and not with the narrow sense of possession which renders the love selfish and exclusive.  ABU0789

For the object of the dawn of the Morn of Guidance and the effulgence of the Sun of Reality have been no other than the inculcation of the utmost love amongst the children of men and perfect good-fellowship between the individuals of mankind. Therefore, in the beginning the foundation of this Love and Unity must be laid amongst the believers of God and then be permeated between other nations of the world.  ABU2302

Love is unlimited, boundless, infinite! Material things are limited, circumscribed, finite. You cannot adequately express infinite love by limited means. The great unselfish love for humanity is bounded by none of these imperfect, semi-selfish bonds; this is the one perfect love, possible to all mankind, and can only be achieved by the power of the Divine Spirit. No worldly power can accomplish the universal love.  ABU0281

It behoveth everyone to show the utmost love, rectitude of conduct, straightforwardness and sincere kindliness unto all the peoples and kindreds of the world, be they friends or strangers. So intense must be the spirit of love and loving-kindness that the stranger may find himself a friend, the enemy a true brother, no difference whatsoever existing between them. For universality is of God and all limitations earthly.  BH00223

"We are commanded by Baha'u'llah to assist all the communities without the exclusion of any one. We do not consider their deeds and actions but we never lose sight of God and their wants must be relieved without the distinction of race or religion."   ABU3327


Associate with the followers of all religions with friendliness and fellowship.   BH00779


"Consort with followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship."   AB04723

He must not turn away his face from any soul. He must treat with kindness both the friend and the stranger.  ABU3473

Consort with all religions with joy and fragrance, and remind them of that which hath appeared in creation.   BH07307

Deal with all peoples of the earth with the utmost kindness, sincerity, trustworthiness, nobility, goodwill and care.  AB04001

This Cause is comprehensive. Every community finds the reality of its principles in this Cause. The Baha'i Cause is like a tree and these various communities, or gatherings or societies, are branches. When you compare the tree with the branches you find every branch in the tree, and this is the Baha'i Cause. For example: The real principles of the Masonic Order are found in the Baha'i reality. The principles of Christ are found in the Baha'i Cause, and so are the principles of all other faiths. It comprehends all contrarieties. For example: these ministers of Christian denominations are against the Masonic Order, and the Masonic Order is against the Jesuits. The Baha'i is on good terms with all of these -- there are no quarrels and each person finds all in the Baha'i Cause.  ABU2306

Do not pronounce as infidels those who have recognized God, and curse not those who recite the verses of God with humility   BH06615


Attribute nothing to anyone. Let there be no displeasing statement; no debasing element regarding or concerning religions.   ABU2195


you must interact with all peoples with utmost truthfulness and sincerity, and remember followers of every religion with honor and respect  ABU1826

Be as dawning-places of the lights of utterance unto the people of possibility, and as a heaven of bounty unto the peoples of the world. Thus have We counseled you before, and at this time, did ye but know it. Beware lest ye object to those who have not entered beneath your shadow. Set forth what ye possess. Fear God and follow not vain imaginings and idle fancies.  BH06730

Let them show some forbearance, exercise consideration, not tear away the veil, and deal with the clergy and others with the utmost kindness, consideration and regard.  AB03456

be not dispirited by grief and sorrow, nor dejected by the discord of the people of dissension. Rather, let successive trials become the cause of joy, that we may follow the example of the Most Glorious Beauty and emulate the Most Exalted One. Thus, as much as we can, we must associate and mingle with the enemies with utmost gladness and heavenly character, showing consideration, sincerity, harmony and love. AB04693

a Christian must be kind and benevolent to a Mohammedan. A Jew must display the utmost tolerance toward a Zoroastrian and a Baha'i must associate with all of these  ABU2073


The intention of this verse is that the people of Baha should have no ill will or animosity toward any group, but should act with love toward all, not considering others unclean or avoiding them.  AB00629

If, however you find a person leading a truly good earnest life, who does not reject or receive these Teachings, you are to remember what our Lord Jesus said, "He that is not against me is with Me."  ABU2000

Whenever these people mention each other's leaders with due reverence then all sufferings and contentions shall cease and instead of hatred there will be love and instead of enmity and disunity there will be harmony and affection.  ABU3321

We must affiliate with all the religions and sects; speak to them from their own standpoint and show to them in practice that we love their books, we read their scriptures, and we honor and respect the founders of their religions.   ABU1232

With the utmost patience, tranquility, trustworthiness, religiosity, love, kindness and humanity, interact and deal with all people of all communities and nations. Know nothing but goodwill, good conduct and care, even toward bloodthirsty enemies.  AB00825

We are in perfect joy and fragrance with all religions, in complete fellowship with all, neither harshness. We think of love and mercy for all, not difficulty. We are commanded to friendship and intimacy, not hatred and estrangement. If they doubt our faith, we fully acknowledge their mystical insight.   AB00957

What harm could result if the Jews were in a similar attitude toward Christianity, declaring that Christ was the Word of God, that the Gospel is the Book of God? Such an attitude as this would cause the enmity of many centuries to pass away.   ABU0094

Everyone must do away with false prejudices and must even go to the other churches and mosques, for, in all of these worshiping places, the name of God is mentioned. Since all gather to worship God, what difference does it make? None of these worship satan. The Mohammedans must go to the churches of the Christians and of the Jews and vice-versa, the others must go to the Mohammedan mosques.   ABU1796

When it is revealed, "Consort with all the religions," the intention is association with such people. Although there is no connection between us, I have served him for twenty years. Such people, as this poor Arab, are not believers, and there is no harm in that; let him believe in his own convictions. It is exhorted that if we disfavor someone, it should not be over his religion. For instance, we should not avoid a Christian because of his beliefs.   ABU1972

