O My loved ones, reflect deeply upon the veils of glory and ever keep them before your eyes   BH10799

One must possess the power of contemplation and reflection. Information to a certain degree defines the human being, but in drawing conclusions one must have a long reach.   ABU0860

Ponder, O My loved ones, upon this wondrous One through Whom hath appeared the decree of creation... Blessed is he who pondereth upon this Revelation and what hath appeared in its days  BH05718

Observe and ponder that which We have manifested through Our sovereignty...How many are the lowly who observe and ponder the handiwork of God, and how many are the mighty who pass by it in heedlessness.  BH07493

The best hour that I like in these days is just after sunset. Over one's soul steals a quiet serenity. A calm beauty and satisfaction comes unheralded and one is submerged, as though, in a sea of contemplation.   ABU1944

Long after midnight I would get up, communing with God in spirit and watching the stars marching in their majestic spheres. There was such a spirituality in that Eastern silence that whenever I think of it I feel myself transformed to those divine nights of concentration and contemplation!  ABU2392

During these matchless moonlight nights one's heart becomes tender and the mind wistful and meditative, pensive and musing. It as though the trees, the rocks, the sea, the grass, the stars hold communion with man and whisper into his ears the secrets of nature. It was mainly owing to this reason that the ancient prophets of God lived in the grottos and caves of this Mountain - so that they may spend their time in quiet contemplation.   ABU1430

Baha'u'llah says there is a sign (from God) in every phenomenon: the sign of the intellect is contemplation and the sign of contemplation is silence, because it is impossible for a man to do two things at one time -- he cannot both speak and meditate. It is an axiomatic fact that while you meditate you are speaking with your own spirit. In that state of mind you put certain questions to your spirit and the spirit answers: the light breaks forth and the reality is revealed.  ABU0395

Shouldst thou desire to apprehend the mysteries of the Cause, depart from the city wherein thou dwellest, then enter the wilderness, then dwell within thyself, then keep silence from all remembrance. Then turn thy heart, whereupon thou shalt hear the lamentation of all things and their wailing in My grief. Perchance thou mayest discover that which none among creation hath discovered. Thus do We impart unto thee, in the secret of allusions, the gems of mysteries.  BH03660
