
God originateth creation, then reneweth it. Will ye not reflect?  BB00004

Truth has ever existed while creation is continually renewed, like the sun and its rays  AB05224

Now the new age is here and creation is reborn. Humanity hath taken on new life.  AB02117

The King of the Kingdom of Might hath sat upon the throne of the Kingdom and renewed every unprecedented creation  AB03051

He desireth to manifest His signs amongst men and create a new creation by His command. Do ye not wait? Say: Yea, by our Lord, we are among those who wait.  BB00004

Throughout the world, in every spot, settlements have been erected time and again, then ruined. The earth remains in one state, but whatever appears upon its surface is erased.   ABU0635

Wert thou to observe this new Dispensation with penetrating sight thou wouldst see how the world of existence hath become a fresh creation from the effulgences of the Ancient Beauty   AB06323

"The new creation encompasses all things, for in the new creation there is no room for imperfection, lest 'Blessed be God, the Most Perfect of Creators' be rendered false and meaningless."  BH05897

This world is the plane of creation and disintegration. The process never stops: On one side it creates new people, and on the other it destroys what she has created. The world will not grow tired.   ABU1534

Therefore God abrogates in every age, when its term is fulfilled, that to which you have grown accustomed, and God creates you anew along with your deeds.  BB00004

The mountain and prairie of the Ideal world are adorned with green and verdant vegetation. The trees of the temples of humanity are clothed with the garments of New Bestowals and be gemmed with New blossoms and fruits. All the phenomena are in the process of reformation and regeneration.  AB04998

In the Divine Books, mention is made of a new creation: Were We then wearied with the first creation? Yet are they in doubt with regard to a new creation. The meaning of this is that the souls who believe in the verses of God are a new creation. This new creation is not physical but spiritual.  ABU1443

At that point, a crier from the source of the most great divinity and the treasury of the most grand lordship called out, saying that no creature who would accept this effulgence and radiance could be seen. Therefore, the command was given that a new creation and an unprecedented handiwork be brought into being.  BH01911

When the holy, divine Manifestations or Prophets appear in the world, a cycle of radiance, an age of mercy dawns. Everything is renewed. Minds, hearts and all human forces are reformed, perfections are quickened, sciences, discoveries and investigations are stimulated afresh, and everything appertaining to the virtues of the human world is revitalized.  ABU0079

Then a new tree grows from its seeds, green, verdant and freshened by the divine outpouring, the merciful breeze, the heat from the Sun of Reality, the heavy rain from the clouds of the abundant mercy and the blowing wind from the wafting place of Providence.  “Whatever verse we abolish or forget we replace by a better one.”  This is the example of the new creation, the miraculous cycle and the second resurrection, which is in conformity with the first creation.  AB00778

And when thou hast understood this, thou wilt be certain that creation hath no beginning whereby thou mightest reckon from its inception, and preserve this as one of the bounds of thy religion. In every Revelation all things are renewed and created anew.  BB00027
