Inharmony destroys the magnet to attract the Divine Elixir and all become deprived.  ABU1473

Disputation is never permitted.   AB00957

Each nation, each people that has understood and felt the Love of God has progressed and developed, but where discord has sprung up in the midst of a nation, that nation has been dispersed.  ABU1140

O people of the earth! Make not God's religion a cause of enmity.  BH07546

Disagreement among the believers is likened unto the clouds which prevent the rays of the sun from reaching the space they cover although in a short time, the power of the rays will undoubtedly disperse the clouds, yet the clouds will stop the rays for awhile and temporarily deprive the creature of God from the privilege of enjoying the beauty of the Sun. Disagreement among the believers has the same effect and result. It prevents the confirmation of God for a while. There will be no confirmation for any one as long as disagreement is in existence.   ABU0696

But if ye are best by differences and dissension, your abundance shall vanish, your limpid streams shall dry up, your Beloved One shall be angered, your fortunes shall decline, your remedies shall elude you, your enemies shall prevail against you, those who despise you shall rule upon you, your gathering shall be dispersed, your assemblage shall be scattered, the brightness of your lights shall be darkened, your flame shall be extinguished, your star shall set, your procession shall be fragmented, your honour shall be abased, the fire of your torment shall rage, and ye shall become bodies without souls, chalices without wine, lamps without light, and ye shall stray rudderless from the path of truth.  AB01365

Therefore, all of you must strive with heart and soul in order that enmity may disappear entirely and that strife and hatred pass away absolutely from the midst of the human world. You must listen to the admonition of this Spirit of Truth. You must follow the example and footprints of Jesus Christ.  ABU0118

Certain souls love those things that cause change and difference. Should anyone appear and utter a word from which the fragrance of discord can be detected, ye must counsel him with perfect steadfastness, with wisdom and utterance, that perchance he may turn to that which God desireth and be illumined with the light of unity and concord.   BH01817

Be not like those who revile one another   BH06331

But if discord and estrangement remain among friends, day by day the flame of the love of God will be extinguished and lethargy and stagnation will encompass all. Therefore strive as much as you can for harmony so that 'Abdu'l-Baha may be pleased and spirit and fragrance may appear  AB01813

No harm has been or is greater to the Cause of God than discord...Through discord, harm befalls the very root of the Tree, and beyond this, opposition to God's Command occurs, along with the dispersion of united souls, the waste of the Cause among the servants, and the bewilderment of weak souls   BH04234

I swear by the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name that today even a tiny needle-sized crack will later become as wide as the distance between East and West, and a straw's worth of difference will become like Mount Qaf. All these labors will be wasted, the cycle will be destroyed and eliminated  AB00972

From all directions, discord brings death and destruction, while concord brings life and salvation. The glory of the Cause of God and the glory of the friends of God lie in unity and wisdom, while the abasement of God's Cause and the degradation of God's loved ones lie in discord and wrongdoing and estrangement.  AB02723

If they do not attain this unity and harmony, they shall eventually meet with manifest loss; confirmations and strength shall cease. This is the fact and truth of this condition. They must not complain about God. For discord is like unto fire cast amid the harvest. Therefore, expecting harvest under such condition is a foolish desire. Thus the harvest should be saved and protected from fire that our hope may be realized.   AB04808


Let no unkindness remain. May this dust settle  AB06216

Beware lest ye occupy yourselves with disputation   BH03442

"Utterly remove discord from among the companions"   BH04541

speak not a word that would cause sedition thereby   BB00526

Say: Contend not with anyone, nor deny any soul's rights.  BH08693

God hath lifted the decree of disputation and contention   BH07522

Be not the cause of grief, much less of strife and sedition  ABU1751

Be not the cause of grief, much less of strife and sedition.  ABU1754

I desire not that any two should differ in the religion of God.   BB00220

O friends! Conflict, contention and bloodshed are forbidden.   BH06866

Conflict, contention and the like have been forbidden in God's Book   BH06911

Fear God and contend not with anyone, nor wage war against any soul.   BH02744

be not of those who search into people's deeds to find fault with them   BH06615

through such pretexts will cause division and discord among the Baha'is.  ABU2842

Corruption, conflict and inflammatory matters are forbidden and unloved.   BH03328

Corruption, conflict, war and strife have been strictly forbidden in the Book   BH04340

for discord and lack of harmony are the cause of bringing low the Cause of God  AB12405

Contention, discord, strife and sedition have all been forbidden in the Book of God.  BH04900

We have no quarrel with him, we seek no contention. If possible, we would assist him.   AB01386

Conflict and contention are not befitting, and harshness and severity must be avoided.  AB02279

"All conflict, contention and corruption are forbidden in this Most Great Revelation."  BH08563

dispute not with those who enjoin upon you what is good in the Scriptures and Tablets   BH04573

in most divine Tablets they have been forbidden from corruption, conflict and contention  BH04993

forbid them all from corruption, contention, reprehensible deeds and unacceptable conduct  BH03336

O ye distinguished ones, do not waste your time in useless discussions that yield no benefit.  AB00306

Many of the blameworthy and harmful consequences of argumentation and conquest were mentioned.  BHU0010

Do not pursue arguments. If you see they want to dispute, avoid it and let it pass in silence.   AB01052

today what was mentioned hath been fulfilled and We have commanded all to preserve their lives   BH04208

Resolve the differences that have arisen amongst you. Be as brothers upon the thrones of unity.   BH03270

Conflict, contention, corruption, murder and the like have been strictly forbidden in God's Book.  BH02498

Corruption, conflict and disputation are forbidden. All must associate together with utmost love.  BH01681

By the command of God, exalted be His glory, corruption and contention are condemned in His sight.  BH10074

Time and again in the Scriptures and Tablets have We forbidden you from corruption and contention.   BH05358

We have forbidden conflict and contention, and have commanded all to fear God, the Lord of creation.   BH01701

Conflict and contention have been forbidden in this Most Great Revelation. All are commanded to wisdom   BH07548

They must leave every wavering soul to himself - no praise and no blame, no commendation and no reproach.   AB05459

We have removed the law of contention, for verily I am the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth.   BH07212

"Beware lest ye dispute with anyone, for this hath been forbidden unto you in preserved Tablets of might."  BH03987

Any deed that causeth tumult and perturbation among heedless souls is not acceptable before the Wronged One   BH09697

However, thou must walk in the footsteps of the Wronged One and engage in dispute with no one regarding any matter.  BH02714

"Gather ye together in the Cause of God and differ not concerning Him Who hath come unto you with every wise command."  BH07288

The lack of approval and the silence itself is sufficient, as resistance and criticism would cause opposition and discord.  AB02223

The shedding of blood hath been forbidden in the Tablet. Beware lest ye transgress that which hath been set down in the Book.  BH02740

However, antagonizing or insulting anyone is not permitted. One must exercise patience and forbearance to the extent possible   AB12176

We have, in this Revelation, forbidden the servants from conflict and corruption and that which troubleth men of understanding   BH01488

In no wise is conflict and contention permissible. All have been created from one Word and unto that same Word do they return.   BH00709

"Such discussions have always arisen - in every age these statements have caused the scratching of minds and division of people"  ABU2144

"Differ not concerning God, but remember Him with the wisdom which the All-Merciful has sent down in the Scriptures and Tablets."  BH02792

He hath forbidden all servants in the Tablets from corruption, conflict and contention with a mighty forbiddance from His presence.  BH05282

Those who speak and acknowledge the word of unity must purify and sanctify their hearts from corruption, conflict, rancor and hatred   BH09633

hence He says that if you possess a word of which others are unaware, share it. If it is accepted, well and good; if not, do not contend.   ABU2041

We have effaced the sign of the sword and made the sign of the pen to shine forth from the horizon of the mercy of thy Lord, the Bountiful.  BH09125

O loved ones of God! But explain this matter to all with utmost love and kindness, not with harshness and compulsion that would cause discord.  AB02251

Corruption, conflict and contention have been forbidden. The friends must shun and keep far from whatsoever gives off the odor of corruption.   BH07829

He has even warned that if two persons disagreed with each other so as to create alienation, then both of them would be wrong and unjustified.   ABU2563

In this most manifest, wondrous and impregnable Revelation, We have forbidden all the servants of God from murder, corruption, tyranny and enmity  BH08177

Let them at least understand this much: that discord, conflict and contention have never been and never will be worthy of God and His chosen ones.  BH00219

We have obliterated from the Book strife and corruption, conflict and warfare and the like, and have enjoined upon all that which is praiseworthy.   BH03797

We have enjoined upon them unity; rather have they risen up in strife. We have summoned them unto wisdom; rather have they shown forth the reverse.  BH03510

"We have forbidden all peoples from strife and contention, from the shedding of blood, and from matters that are prohibited and that their minds abhor"  BH05692

Baha'u'llah hath affirmed that, if the Baha'is engage in contention, even if the conflict concern Baha'u'llah Himself, both parties will be in the wrong.  ABU2976

what harm is there if they gather on this foundation that causes oneness and unity, and overlook their differences which lead to estrangement and conflict   ABU1075

abandon transgression and unseemly deeds. He counseleth you and acquainteth you with that which shall profit you in the world to come and in this first life.   BH02226

"O people! Fear God, and spread not corruption in God's earth, and wage not war against men, and dispute not with them, and consume not their wealth unjustly"  BH01025

By the life of God, contention hath been forbidden, and conflict, corruption, bloodshed and evil deeds have all been strictly prohibited in My Most Great Book.   BH01592

One must carefully study the divine texts and execute the laws of God's religion, avoiding the interpretations of the mystics and the confusion of the philosophers  AB10170

In numerous Tablets We have forbidden the servants from conflict and contention and from that which is blameworthy, and have commanded that which is praiseworthy.   BH01789

I complain unto thee of those who shed blood, after thou knowest that We have forbidden the people from this in all the Tablets - and God is Witness and Well-Informed.   BH01460

Corruption, contention and strife have been forbidden. One must assist the Cause of God, exalted be His glory, through the hosts of goodly deeds and praiseworthy character.  BH11634

Should two of the friends dispute regarding worldly matters, both shall fall from grace. Though they be unaware, divine bounties and heavenly confirmations shall be cut off.  ABU1659

Praise be to God that antagonism, cruelty, enmity, opposition, religious fanaticism, religious conflicts, religious contentions, and oppression have been completely removed.   AB05094

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of the Cause that contention, corruption, conflict and whatsoever disturbeth hearts have ever been rejected and condemned by this Wronged One  BH04262

Why should we let envy and hatred separate us? The strange part of it is that they have no outward existence. Then why this feud? Why this ill-feeling? Why this mutual hatred?  ABU1719

He abrogated and abolished conflict and contention, even argumentation, and established "consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship."  AB01083

Under all conditions, ye should manifest the utmost composure and dignity. Should a heedless soul arise in opposition, oppose ye him not, lest the clamor of the heedless be raised.   BH00317

I am absolutely not pleased that there should be any mention between two souls and any argument and dispute. I swear by the Most Great Name it is as if an arrow has struck my breast.   AB03282

In the Book of God, the Mighty, the Great, ye have been forbidden to engage in contention and conflict. Lay fast hold on whatever will profit you, and profit the peoples of the world.  BH00005

They that spread corruption in the earth - these shall have none to guide them. And they that consume the substance of men wrongfully and shed blood - these are of the people of loss.  BH04732

"Know that any soul from whom a word of discord issues has hidden motives, and every concealed and hidden secret has unpraiseworthy results."   AB00453

When there is a quarrel, all are wrong; but when there is love, all are right. The Blessed Perfection said the only thing that is not beloved is discord and all that is beloved is love.   ABU1181

Do not contend with anyone and avoid conflict. Speak the word of truth - if it is accepted, excellent, and if they persist in denial, leave them to themselves and place your trust in God.   AB03780

As the Blessed Beauty has stated, if two of the divine friends engage in dispute and debate over a divine matter, it will lead to discord, and discord causes degradation of the Cause of God.  AB01449

Strictly forbid all the divine loved ones today from corruption and conflict, for whatever occurs, its harm returns to the divine Lote Tree itself, as has occurred and returned in these days.   BH01571

It has been written several times that as soon as you observe the slightest ill-feeling between two souls, you must immediately resolve it, otherwise it will eventually cause general corruption.   AB11676

Disagreement is just like poison-whenever the poison enters the body it will kill it at once, notwithstanding its vitality and strength. So beware not to let this kind of poison enter your heart.  ABU0169

Discord and division have been the cause and reason for the delay of the Manifestation of God. All must gird up the loins of service and remove estrangements and differences from among themselves.   BH07024

It is likewise forbidden to engage in conflict and contention with ones enemies, inasmuch as this would render one deprived of the grace of the loving Lord. One must leave ones opposers to themselves.  ABU3724

In most Tablets We have forbidden the servants from contention, conflict, corruption and whatsoever causeth grief to existence. Nevertheless there hath appeared that which causeth sorrow to those near and sincere.   BH02810

"But to contend will destroy you both. Go home and be friends."  ABU1046

The intention and desire of this Wronged One has been to remove conflict and contention from the world. To this testify the atoms of all created things and the Tablets of God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH10115

Conflict and contention are categorically forbidden in His Book. This is a decree of God in this Most Great Revelation. It is divinely preserved from annulment and is invested by Him with the splendour of His confirmation.  BH00003

Dispute not with anyone, and remind the people with wisdom and counsel. O servant! Be adorned with My attributes, for We have lifted the decree of conflict and disputation and have manifested the Cause with power and might.   BH00941

The Baha'is seek the Most Great Peace and maintain friendship, truthfulness, reconciliation and humanitarian service with all peoples of the world - no conflict, no contention, no antipathy, no avoidance, no spite, no prejudice.   AB00721

"I counsel you, O concourse, not to utter any word that would cause sedition among the people, and separate yourselves entirely from all the calumniators. The balance of truth is in thy hands - let no sedition arise in that land."  BB00495

Through the aid of the Lord, the sharp swords of the Babi community have been returned to their sheaths through goodly words and praiseworthy deeds. The righteous have ever conquered the cities of existence through their utterance.   BH01517

Never allow anyone to argue with anyone else. As soon as discord arises, either maintain silence or ask questions. Argument, disputation and conflict between friends is forbidden - indeed it is more bitter than the venom of a serpent.  AB11851

Baha'u'llah says: 'If two persons argue over a subject, both are wrong', so that no disagreement should occur. No one should say, 'My opinion is right.' He says, 'Both are wrong', so that no differences should arise among the friends.   ABU0428

The Ancient Beauty hath been sent with mercy and loving-kindness. Whoso associateth himself with Him yet warreth with anyone - God is quit of him and We are quit of him. Thus hath the matter been decreed in this Revelation.   BH01869

We have no quarrel with anyone, nor have ever had any. Praise be to God, the Blessed Perfection made us free and blessed us with peace. He forbade us all conflict and strife and commanded us to show love and kindness to all in the world.  ABU2878

Take heed that ye create not discord and dissention with one another, and that no soul harmeth another soul, and none acteth treacherously towards others, and no friend slandereth his friend, and no believer denieth the rights of his brother in faith.   BH01394

Whatsoever thou mayest hear of different and conflicting heresy, be thou silent and do not reply, except that which God inspireth thee of kindly words, which indicate the abundance of thy humbleness to God, and thy abhorrence of every talk that concerns worldly affairs.   AB03581

Beware, beware lest you engage in opposing views, in conflicting beliefs and ideas for these will completely undermine the divine foundation. The friends of God in all the Spiritual Assemblies must present clear proofs rather than engaging themselves in confrontational dispute.   AB01018

Let no one ever oppose another or rise up to wage war. The station of the people of truth hath been and shall ever be humility, submissiveness, and praiseworthy attributes. The world is not worthy that man should commit unseemly acts and remain remote from the Sovereign of Oneness.   BH00497

We enjoin upon them that are the emblems of His names and attributes to firmly adhere henceforth unto that which hath been set forth in this Most Great Revelation, not to allow themselves to become the cause of strife. Strife leads to bloodshed and provokes commotion amongst people.  BH00111

Thou didst write that the state of disputation and contention no longer remaineth, that none hath arisen to wage war and strife. Strange indeed that ye yourselves practice that of which ye complain! The disputations of the world lie concealed and hidden in these words thou hast sent.  BH00004

Thou seest how conflict hath arisen among them after God forbade them this, to such extent that some denounce others as infidels and backbite their loved ones behind their backs, such that the fragrance of love hath been lifted from their midst and hatred hath settled in their breasts  BH02034

O people! Shed not blood, for this hath been forbidden in the Book of God, were ye but to know. Victory hath been ordained through the mention of proofs and exposition - thus hath the command been sent down and the decree established from the presence of the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH02442

If ye desire to dispute with proofs and arguments, write your proofs with utmost courtesy, then speak with perfect propriety, for ye shall meet your Lord God on the Day of Resurrection even as ye shall meet Him Whom God shall make manifest and him who is a Gate unto Him for all the worlds.  BB00020

O friends of God! Beware, beware of discord, for through discord the divine foundation is destroyed, and through the winds of disagreement the blessed tree remains fruitless. The garden of unity withers from the cold winter of conflicting thoughts, and the fire of the love of God grows cold.  AB00252

The servants have been forbidden to engage in conflict and contention, and have been commanded to show forth kindliness in this Most Wondrous, Most Holy, Most Mighty, Most Praiseworthy Revelation. He who hath attained unto that which hath been commanded, verily, is of the people of My Kingdom.  BH11655

Wild animals may perhaps by chance engage in strife and contention once a year, but human beings are perpetually in conflict and contention. For instance, a wolf may encounter another wolf once a year, likewise a leopard with another leopard, but humans are continually in strife and contention.   ABU2041

As for what thou hadst written about the fighting and quarreling of those associated with the Faith and others - you should stand aside and give counsel, using any means possible to stop the conflict and end the dispute. And if this proves impossible, withdraw. This is the way of the people of Baha.  AB02689

This Wronged One, with no helper or assistant save a single pen, aided both government and people, and through loving counsels and wise admonitions removed killing and plunder from their midst. We transformed weapons into instruments of peace. For forty years no one has moved contrary to what God has willed.  BH02242

And if, God forbid, any difference, small or great, should arise between the friends regarding any matter, all must maintain complete silence, show love to one another, and inquire so that an answer may be provided. In any case, whoever becomes the cause of discord between the friends must be shunned and avoided.  AB00513

Between yourself and ..., joking and jesting will lead to seriousness and ill-feeling, and unless there is silence from one side, intense sorrow will ultimately arise. These matters are of no importance, therefore in this regard you should maintain complete silence so that it may end.  AB09670

Therefore the Blessed Beauty arose, with a divine power and might. He removed all of those implications, unfurled the banner of holiness, pitched the tent of universal peace and called the people to faithfulness, good morals and peace. He said, 'If you are killed in God's service, it is better than for you to kill.'  ABU0238

Has dissention at any time borne fruit? No, by God, it ever strikes at the root of the tree of existence, while harmony transforms the ruins of the world into a cultivated place not of this world. The power of unity is transcendent over the power of the conqueror, and the unity of the hearts is the dispeller of afflictions.   AB00891

When one is quiet the thing is forgotten. When discussion is forbidden the matter will be dropped... If we speak of matters that have passed it will not bring joy and happiness. Let us speak of subjects that will bring happiness and joy. If we speak on these subjects we will not become happy, nay, rather, it will depress us.   ABU0267

Leave unsaid anything that would create disagreement. It is not necessary to touch upon such subjects. Baha'o'llah says that whoever is the cause of differences should be avoided. In any problem if two people disagree both are in the wrong. He did not say, one is right, the other wrong. This is said to prevent the arising of dissention.  ABU0846

Beware, beware lest thou commit what thou hast written at the end of thy letter. These are the deeds of the ignorant and the acts of the heedless. I swear by the Most Great Name that if any of the friends should harm anyone, it is as though he hath harmed God Himself. Conflict, contention, corruption, killing and the like have been strictly forbidden in the Book of God.   BH00364

For forty years We forbade the servants from conflict and contention, and through the grace of the Most Exalted Word, all became tranquil, to such degree that in times of tribulation and hardship they transformed might and choice into patience and forbearance. They were slain but slew not, whether in the land of Sad or in the land of Ta, whether in the land of love or in other lands.  BH11214

In affairs, strive as much as possible to prevent differences from arising, not that every minor matter becomes a cause of discord. If things proceed in this manner, the end result will be pure chaos. All the friends and handmaidens of the Merciful must focus their thoughts on achieving unity and realizing the oneness of humankind, not that every minor issue becomes a cause of differing views.   AB01900

Consider that His Holiness Adam and others were in paradise, but as soon as conflict arose between His Holiness Adam and Satan in the Garden of Eden, all were expelled from paradise - so that humankind might learn and become aware that conflict and contention are the cause of deprivation, even with Satan. Therefore in this luminous age, according to divine teachings, conflict and contention are not permitted even with Satan.   AB02153

For nearly forty years We have forbidden the people of God from conflict, corruption, murder, plunder and reprehensible deeds and actions, such that all would testify, were they to be fair, that the supreme grace hath been manifested from this Wronged One. Previously, every year the fire of war was ignited, as all have seen and heard. But after this Wronged One's arrival in Iraq, no one moved except as this Wronged One desired.   BH00383

Now these souls who create discord do so in the name of truth, but later its results become clear. Jeroboam acted in the name of justice and fairness, but afterward the Children of Israel became idol worshippers. In every age, whenever certain souls wanted to raise the standard of opposition, they would make some righteous claim, pretending their purpose was truth. They would use this as a means to gradually gain influence, then little by little promote their own aims.  ABU0194

In any case, continually counsel the friends that whatever you may have in mind is your own affair-do not make 'Abdu'l-Baha a cause of discord, for He claims no station that would cause each of you to assert a station and create discord. And if two souls should have the slightest disagreement about this servant, both are in error, for the purpose is the unity of all nations and peoples. We must become the cause of oneness among strangers, not create estrangement among friends.  AB02163

This community is, by explicit text in the Most Holy Book, forbidden from conflict and contention, let alone fighting and warfare. Let them consider the Tablets of Tajalliyat (Effulgences), Ishraqat (Splendors), Tarazat (Ornaments), Bisharat (Glad-Tidings), and Kalimat (Words), which were revealed a short time before the Blessed Ascension and are among the final Tablets. Let them see what explicit texts exist forbidding even the least conflict and contention, let alone war and combat.   AB00181

Observe that although the history of early centuries is not known with certainty as it should be - indeed, events from ten thousand years ago are completely unknown and history is dark - from the past four or five thousand years until now one can rely on historical records. Throughout this entire period, in most regions of the world the flames of war reached their highest intensity, and these bloody conflicts arose either from religious prejudices, racial prejudices, national prejudices, or political prejudices.  AB12107

Generally the people in the past have forgotten the foundation of their religions and have clung to some superficial doctrines, causing differences and quarrels and creating wrangles. But the Blessed Perfection, praise be to God, has shut all the doors to these probable differences. For he has said whenever two parties in the Baha'i Cause differ on any subject both of them are wrong; although the first party may be right. Because the result of their discussion and controversy has been inharmony neither is right.   ABU0834

one soul beholds the Unknowable and Inaccessible Mystery manifest in the Temple of Revelation without separation or connection, while another regards the Temple of Revelation as the Manifestation of God and His commandments and prohibitions as the very commandments of Truth. Both these stations are acceptable before the Divine Throne.  However, should the holders of these two stations dispute and contend regarding these two ranks, both shall be and are rejected. For the purpose of understanding and expressing the highest stations is to attract hearts, unite souls, and promote the Cause of God. Through the disputation and contention of those who hold these two stations, the Cause of God hath been and will be compromised.  BH01034

God hath said in the Qur'an: Unto every nation have we appointed certain rites which they observe. Therefore, let them not dispute with thee concerning this matter, but invite them unto thy Lord, for thou art assuredly on the right way. For every nation there is a path they follow, let them not contend with thee, summon them unto God, and if they accept, well and good, if not, leave them be. I worship not that which ye worship, nor will ye worship that which I worship... Unto you your religion, and unto me my religion.  ABU0358

Whatsoever hath been sent down from the heaven of God's Command in the form of ordinances and prohibitions hath ever had the welfare of His servants in view. Observe how in all the Tablets mention hath been made of the grievous days to come, and likewise all have been forbidden from corruption, conflict and contention, to such degree that in most Tablets it hath been revealed that the triumph of God's Cause in this day hath been and shall be through goodly utterances and words of wisdom, not through disputation and warfare.  BH09295

Man must always quench the flame. For this world is all aflame, it is a world of conflict and contention. Conflict between individuals is natural. It is inherent in nature. There is a struggle for survival - what is commerce but warfare? The merchant is at war with all other merchants in order to profit. This is called the struggle for survival. It exists in all things. Every tree seeks to take the benefits of other trees, to choke out other trees. The human world is a world of conflict and contention; every individual is at war with all others.  ABU1821

Gird up the loins of your endeavor, O people of  Baha, that haply the tumult of religious dissension and strife that agitateth the peoples of the earth may be stilled, that every trace of it may be completely obliterated.  BH00005

Have not the standards of discord been raised from all directions, and has not the corruption of these companions not corrupted the world? Is this not enough? How can these be reconciled?  BH01381

In all the Tablets of constancy wherein mention hath been made of grievous days, We have counseled all servants with compassionate exhortations that none should molest anyone, and no soul should contend with another. The decree of killing hath been entirely forbidden in the wondrous Tablets. Nevertheless, that which happened hath happened. Say: O servants of God! Defile not the good earth with the blood of idolatrous souls. The victory of truth hath been through goodly counsels and wise exhortations, not through conflict and contention.   BH00638

All the friends of God know, and have read and continue to read in all divine Tablets and Scriptures, that at the mere mention of an atom of discord, the Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) would become so inflamed that His blessed countenance would change color. And surely each person present has heard a hundred times with their own ears from His pure lips that He would repeatedly say with utmost emotion: "If I were to see that the Cause of God becomes the source of discord between two souls, I would abandon the Cause of God."   AB01128

Pure souls should gather divine verses pertaining to every situation and, with wisdom and appropriateness, convey them in a spirit of joy and fragrance - for instance, verses concerning character, as well as those revealed regarding deeds and words and the prohibition of corruption, contention and conflict... "Blessed is the state of one who killed not but was killed in God's path, who harmed no one and became the target of the heedless people's harm." And likewise He says, exalted be His grandeur: "I have come for unity and concord, not for hatred and obstinacy."   BH00385

Praise be to God Who, when He was established upon the throne in the garden named Ridvan, uttered three decisive verses: by the first He abolished the law of the sword and established in its place mention and utterance. In this Most Great Revelation, the decree of the sword, corruption, conflict, disputation and the like have been strictly forbidden in the Book. If today someone should manifest evil intent toward the Wronged One, We would certainly not oppose him. In this Revelation, the ocean of loving-kindness is surging, the sea of grace is manifest, and the sun of generosity is shining.  BH00128

what has befallen the friends of God that they have created such discord over a trivial matter, have ceased from diffusing the divine fragrances and exalting the Word of God, and have occupied themselves with these futile and useless discussions? Is this the time for such talks, or the season for such tales? No, by God! No, by God! Rather, one must become heedless of and detached from all such matters and affairs, discussions and stories, and flee from them to such an extent that one should not even sit in a gathering where such talk arises, for discord will increase, clamor and tumult will intensify, the main purpose will be lost, all spirit and joy will utterly vanish, the external enemies will rejoice, and the internal opponents will be pleased and gratified.   AB00290

This Most Great Revelation hath appeared for the reformation of the world. Corruption and conflict are forbidden. The accepted souls must associate with all the peoples of the world with the utmost joy and fragrance.  BH00152

agreement and union among men are productive of life results. Every movement which aims at separation, causes disagreement and produces dissension amongst men, is to be condemned and rejected.  ABU0448

The Blessed Perfection has said that if any religion or faith is productive of hate and enmity, it must be abandoned.  ABU0448

Beseech God to protect His servants from those who love discord and who set aside that which they have been commanded concerning love and unity.   BH03754
