'First,' said he, 'we must get rid of all glosses, Talmuds, codes of divinity, and clerical law. Get back to the revealed word of God where we can. Christ had the revealed word, so had Mohammed, so had others before them, but - and here's the point - those revelations were for their own day and environment. You cannot always take the literal interpretation of first-century Syria or eighth-century Arabia and say in its application it is true now.'  ABU2096

How long these withering customs, these stultifying rites! How long these blightening dogmas! How long these barren theological, hair-splitting, useless discussions. We must abandon entirely these things; we must free ourselves from these intolerable burdens   ABU1076

When the Blessed Perfection came, all previous things became as dry bones.  ABU2767


Cain and Abel:  There are two meanings to this narrative - the material and the spiritual. As to the former the occurrence is correctly stated and really happened. In the spiritual significance, we find that Abel represents the Divine Law or Religion, and Cain the human nature. The Divine Law is present in man and attains a certain development when the human nature overcomes it. A man may take a forest and by skillful attention turn it into a garden. But if it be neglected for a time, it reverts into its former condition. So there is always present the tendency to nullify the action of the Divine Law or Religion. The religion of Moses attained its highest development and before the time of Christ it had been acted upon by human forces. So, Christianity reached its zenith and outside forces entered until the Divine Law became to an extent superseded. A man may with the utmost care attend to a garden for a hundred years, but if it be neglected for a single year it will become a wilderness. ABU2089

Forms and rituals may be necessary to some people but the primary foundation of divine religion is the knowledge of the Almighty through scientific and reasonable proofs. Now we have forgotten this essential object and have clung to a set of dogmas and creeds which will not help us at all. These ceremonies are like unto the body and the spiritual Teachings like unto the spirit.   ABU1176

The world is in prison and bondage, through the hands of religions who have captivated the spirit.  ABU1570

Now it is true that the present day religions are like unto dilapidated houses. The religion of Baha'u'llah is preparing slowly yet assuredly, the materials out of which the Temple of Humanity shall be constructed.   ABU2131

Christ gave new life and effect to the meanings of the ancient law.  ABU3572

those teachings were promoted and had their effect in their own time. Now they remain in the hands of nations like abrogated verses, having no authority whatsoever. Observe the Christian nation - today no one acts according to Christ's counsels. Similarly look at Islam - they are entirely heedless of the divine counsels and admonitions in the Quran   AB00521

In the latter basic condition we fail, if we try to satisfy our conscience and our longing with empty formalism and dead dogmatism.   ABU3247

By the 'law of  correspondence' they mean this in a nutshell: On one hand the student reads the Decalogue, the Sermon on the Mount, the verses of the Koran, the gentle exhortations of Budha, the pure ideas of Zoroaster and the moral teachings of Confucius and he finds them lofty, stimulating and inspiring and on other hand he finds the lives and actions of millions of people who call themselves followers of these great world-prophets do not 'correspond' with those exalted advices and as their Teachings have not greatly refined the character of men, therefore they are false and impostors.  ABU0843

The Italians are a generous people, but they have become accustomed to the expression of generosity in words only, and therefore they have been guilty, in their aggressions upon the Turk, of conduct which is utterly atrocious and inexcusable, and such as no civilized nation should tolerate for a moment. This conduct would not have been possible if Italy lad lived the principles of the religion which has guided her for so many years. But, in her policies, this religion has never gone beyond the theatrical coloring of words.   ABU1317

in order to unshackle their minds from the rusty chains of ancestral traditions  ABU2762

But as time passed dogmas and imitations crept in and caused differences and enmity.  ABU2816

The way of God and the religion of God have ceased to be of any worth in the eyes of men.  BH11458

It was very long since the coming of a Prophet, and they needed a new one to give them a fresh start!   ABU1287


religion must shuffle off its tattered garments of medieval Ages and put on the robe of Universal precepts of God   ABU3057

Take what ye are bidden and abandon what the people possess, by the command of God, the Ordainer, the Ancient of Days.   BH07372

The sun rose this morning. Shall we say to the sun, 'Go away! We do not need you this morning; you were here yesterday'?  ABU2095

Many people are going out of the churches dissatisfied with religious teaching. It is because they do not see spiritually.   ABU1773

When the Sun of Manifestation shone forth from the horizon of the Mount of Sinai, all turned away save whom thy Lord willed.  BH00078

The contrary winds of the world, and its colors, have provoked a cold, and deprived men's nostrils of the sweet savors of Revelation.  BH11365

Indeed they have understood the truth well: the teachings of old will not suffice today, will not cure every affliction or heal every wound.  AB02275

Although Christ's appearance was the last, the door of divine bounties is not closed, for Christ's teachings need renewal and interpretation.  ABU2554

By God, nothing among all things shall profit you this Day, nor any name among all names, nor that which ye have clung to of tales and traditions.  BH07304

but the succeeding generations misconstrued their words and in order to further their own selfish interests they fabricated these false doctrines.  ABU2576

Later they deviated from the straight path and turned away from the true way, falling again into their former degradation until the cycle of Christ came.  ABU0090

Yet they were heedless and perverted the words of God from their places, and changed God's favor unto themselves, and altered what We had ordained for them  BH01855

By God! The horizon of trustworthiness has darkened, the countenance of friendship has changed, and the hem of faithfulness between earth and heaven has been sullied.  BH02193

Do you see today anything remaining among the people of that original foundation which does not change or alter? Rather, it has become forgotten, completely forgotten.   AB02149

"When the Gospel was sent down they said: 'This was not revealed from the Glorious One,' and when Muhammad came with clear signs they said: 'These are but fabrications.'"  BH05248

A thirsty man will run after every fountain, he may drink bitter and stagnant water but at last he will reach to the sweet spring. Now praise be to God that thou hast attained.  ABU2620

Baha'u'llah renewed the teachings of the Prophets and proclaimed the foundation of the Religion of God, bringing different peoples into fellowship and uniting different religions.  ABU1744

But a few self-seeking people subverted the original aims of the religion of God, changed its pure current and made it an instrument of hatred and rancor and quarrel and sedition.   ABU2326

If there is no change or alteration, then there is no renewal. Not until night falls will a new day dawn. If the religion of Moses had not changed, Christ would not have appeared.   ABU2314

For those thoughtless ones each day bring forth from the chest of vain imaginings some decree and have laid Iran waste and seated the Iranians upon the ashes of loss and detriment.  AB10664

Every divine religious law was complete for its time. The renewal of the laws of God and the appearance of the Manifestations of the bounties of the Lord in each cycle are necessary.  ABU1619


The primary cause and reason for the veiling of mankind have been, in the first instance, the divines, who in all ages and centuries have been the foremost cause of these mighty veils.  BH04670

It is the ancient path cleared of the debris of imaginations and superstitions of men, of the debris of strife and misunderstanding and is again made a clear path to the sincere seeker   ABU2950

The beginnings of all great religions were pure; but priests, taking possession of the minds of the people, filled them with dogmas and superstitions, so that religion became gradually corrupt.   ABU1113

Thus it was necessary that the laws of God also be changed and the reality of divine religions be renewed, for divine teachings had been forgotten and there was nothing left but dogmatic imitation.  ABU1357

The world is changing. For the sake of the religion of God, hardly anything remaineth among the people. They worship the idols of vain imaginings and are heedless of the Truth, exalted be His glory.  BH00090

Although the divine teachings are truth and reality, yet with the passage of time thick clouds envelop and obscure them. These clouds are imitations and superstitions; they are not the fundamentals.   ABU0233

Know thou with clear certainty that the people of Iran have been reared on vain imaginings and have drunk from the breast of idle fancies. Most difficult is it to rend asunder the veil in their sight.  BH11893

'But, alas! The spiritual leaders of the Christians did not grasp His meaning, so that when the Greeks and Romans became Christians, some of the idolatrous customs were incorporated into Christianity.'  ABU2215

Now men have changed the teaching. If you look at the present practice of the Buddhist religion, you will see that there is little of the Reality left. Many worship idols although their teaching forbids it.  ABU1522

As everything evolves, so also does religion - as witness the doctrines that are losing their influence today. All religious rites and ceremonies, when adhered to, become the cause of destruction and struggle.  ABU1015

Write unto the learned among them: God hath made you and your endeavors as dust. Have mercy upon yourselves and return unto God your Lord, for that which ye practiced as religion hath God abrogated by His knowledge.  BB00004

Such is the condition of these people. Therefore it is a pity for one to recall what is in the possession of this sect. Now regarding what is mentioned, observe for yourself whether it is truth or spoken from desire.  BH00097

Although the foundation is established, like the foundation of Christ, yet if one travels among the Christians, one sees that they have completely deviated. Likewise the Buddhists have entirely deviated from the path of Buddha.  ABU0865

"Self-seeking preachers and teachers have wandered far from that Real Light. And it is the Light that we now seek in the real truth. Men have wandered far from the teachings of Christ, Buddha, the Jewish prophets and all of the others."   ABU0526

Soon will they hasten and say: Woe unto us for what we have neglected in regard to God, and alas for our attachment to the books of men while turning away from Him Who was the Source of all books and the Dawning-Place of every clear tablet!  BH11640

They have sullied with the dust of vain imaginings and the allusions of idle fancies that most holy station wherein naught hath been or is save the mention of God. Therefore they have been deprived and forbidden from witnessing and recognizing.  BH00807

And they have inculcated well with vain imaginings, such that it has become imprinted in your heart. But the detached ones perceive different fragrances and different scents. Should colocynth claim to be sugar, those with taste will not accept it.  BH00004

When its outpourings gradually diminish, the trees of existence cease to be verdant and creeping torpor spreads, it will become like winter. The souls will become withered and distressed and the soil of the hearts will become full of thorns and thistles.  ABU2227

After a while, that which they had thus received from God was lost; the way was prepared for the return of evil qualities, and the world was oppressed by tyranny. Then again the rumour of the Light of Reality and the breathing of the Holy Spirit became known.   ABU1202

This age is a different age and its requirements are different requirements. The laws of the previous age do not suffice for this great century. Therefore, the spiritual laws, that is, the religious branches, must be renewed and divine matters must be made new.  ABU3283

On the other hand blind dogmas and imitation have ever been the cause of envy and hatred. When we investigate the very foundation of the Religions of God we find that it is absolute love but when we look at the present dogmatisms we see that it is absolute harm.  ABU0081

After some time, they abandoned the religion of their ancestors and the priests became self-centered and dishonest, were steeped in pride and became the source of all kinds of evil. Thus the star of prosperity grew dim and the sapling of hope and desire withered   AB04903

They recite prayers and wear amulets, yet wield the sword; They preserve the Quran, yet slay the manifest Imam. They slay Husayn while reciting the Book, and would not be content to miss the virtue of prayer time. They say with their tongues what is not in their hearts.  AB03385


The religionists of the world have forsaken the essence of the teaching and hold to the letter. It is as if the students in a college quarrelled and disputed with each other as to which master was the best, instead of attending to the lessons which were given by those masters.  ABU1070

Such a condition as this is witnessed in this day when the reins of every community have fallen into the grasp of foolish leaders, who lead after their own whims and desire. On their tongue the mention of God hath become an empty name; in their midst His holy Word a dead letter.  BH00002

For twelve hundred years they prided themselves before all the world's peoples with mention of successorship, crying out O Promised One! day and night, yet when the blessed Tree grew forth they pronounced it astray and misguided, and afterwards cut it down with the swords of hatred.  BH00268


It is evident that today the material philosophers have overcome the religionists. The influence exerted by nature and its admirers is by far greater than the influence wielded by religion and its devotees. Because all the religions are submerged in the sea of dogmas and sacerdotal ritualism.  ABU1997

The Master said this meant the liver of those who went before; that is to say, the religious laws of each preceding prophet are annulled by the succeeding one and are as dry bones. In the time of Christ the commands of Moses were as dry bones, and in this time all previous laws are as dry bones  ABU2767

Strange it is that after the wondrous and exalted waves of the seas of divine favors and the effulgences of the words of the Lord, they are seen to be deprived and kept back from the shore of the sea of oneness by ancient allusions to the worn-out and obsolete notion of succession and the like.   BH00796

Everything has been renewed and undoubtedly religious precepts must be also renewed. The reality of the religion of God must be also renewed, imitations must be dissipated, the light of Truth must shine resplendently and those Teachings that constitute the spirit of this age must be promulgated.   AB00374

But now behold, how they have made the Law of God a cause and pretext for perversity and hatred. How pitiful, how regrettable, that most men are cleaving fast to, and have busied themselves with, the things they possess, and are unaware of, and shut out as by a veil from, the things God possesseth!  BH00005

They strive to eliminate religion so that prejudice, which is a branch of religion, might also disappear. Then they realize that humanity cannot live without religion. Therefore, they gather and study the teachings of existing religions to see which religion conforms to the requirements of the time.  BHU0024

For one thousand two hundred years and more they said O Truth and denounced each other as infidels from their pulpits, and when the lights of the Manifestation shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of divine will, they cursed and reviled Him from all pulpits and issued the verdict for His death.  BH01788

But people's withdrawal from religion is because previous religions have lost their influence and effect - like fruitless trees or shells without kernels. Consider that Christ said if someone wrongs you, respond with kindness, yet now Christ's followers are engaged in warfare day and night, calling it a holy war.  ABU0062

Today the happiness of all is solely dependent on concord and harmony; therefore all must strive so that the decaying outdated blind imitations may be eradicated and the truth, which consists in the unity of the human race, may be established, so that all people of the East and West may become brothers and sisters  AB12230

It is unquestionable that in every succeeding Revelation the sun and moon of the teachings, laws, commandments, and prohibitions which have been established in the preceding Dispensation, and which have overshadowed the people of that age, become darkened, that is, are exhausted, and cease to exert their influence.  BH00002

But alas, that true foundation has disappeared and traditions, customs and practices have appeared that are the basis of differences, the cause of opposition, and the reason for war and bloodshed. The original purpose of the appearance of the Holy Manifestations and the establishment of divine teachings has completely vanished.  AB00866

And since this is a luminous age and this century is the century of science, new teachings are necessary, a new illumination is essential, and a new life is required. Minds and souls will not accept old opinions - new thinking is needed and new teachings are necessary that are the spirit of this age and the light of this century.  AB00866


After ages, thick clouds envelope the sun, and these clouds are the imitations, not the fundamentals. Then again the power of the Sun of Truth dispels the clouds and shines most gloriously. For a long time the Sun of Truth has been clouded. Baha'o'llah scattered the clouds and revealed the foundations of the teachings of God again.  ABU1933

If these principles had been carefully carried out by the followers of Jesus Christ, then there would be no need for the world to be reawakened. But winter fell upon the hearts of men, and God sent His prophets to shine upon them with the Spring of the Sun of righteousness that they may be again awakened and blossom forth and bear fruit.  ABU1203

All these divisions we see on all sides, all these disputes and opposition, are caused because men cling to ritual and outward observances, and forget the simple, underlying truth. It is the outward practices of religion that are so different, and it is they that cause disputes and enmity -- while the reality is always the same, and one.  ABU0502

In the great city the fire of hatred, treachery, calumny, greed, tyranny and corruption blazeth bright. They have taken up faithlessness and cast away trustworthiness in opposition to God and His Cause. Thus have their heedless souls enticed them. They have broken God's Covenant and His Bond, and were not moved by God's counsel and His Word.  BH11740

From the continual imitation of ancient and worn-out ways, the world had grown dark as darksome night. The fundamentals of the divine Teachings had passed from memory; their pith and heart had been totally forgotten, and the people were holding on to husks. The nations had, like tattered garments long outworn, fallen into a pitiful condition.  AB02117

In this luminous century all matters have been renewed: sciences have been renewed, new arts have appeared, new industries have become manifest, new thoughts have emerged, new discoveries have arisen, new inventions have come forth. In truth, the world of existence has been renewed. Therefore, the foundation of religion must also be renewed.   ABU3137

If the followers of the Lord Christ had continued to follow out these principles with steadfast faithfulness, there would have been no need for a renewal of the Christian Message, no necessity for a re-awakening of His people, for a great and glorious civilization would now be ruling the world and the Kingdom of Heaven would have come on earth.  ABU0625

One thing necessary for the world of Creation is change; one of the requirements of the essential self or essence is constancy or unchangeableness. It is impossible for any created being not to undergo change. In the same way, religion must undergo change; for religion is a manifested thing in the world and all in this world must undergo change.   ABU0525

When the divine spring is over and the heavenly bounty ceases, the trees of being lie dormant. Lifelessness and stillness prevail over the world of man. People become spiritless and withered. Autumn and winter set in. There exists no flower or greenery, no cheerfulness or mirth, no happiness or joy. Then the spiritual spring spreads its tent once more.  ABU2228

Do ye not see how these people comprehend nothing? For every follower of a religion is born into that religion with what it containeth, without insight or understanding. And all religions and their adherents reckon between themselves and God that they are God-fearing, yet were their piety between them and God to be weighed, it would not equal the wing of a gnat.  BB00005

When the season of spring appears in the arena of existence, the whole world is rejuvenated and finds new life. The soul-refreshing breeze is wafted from every direction; the soul-quickening bounty is everywhere; the cloud of mercy showers down its rain, and the sun shines upon everything... The appearances of the Manifestations of God are the divine springtime.  ABU1161

Most of the churches used to worship idols. These introduced their idols into the new religion, the bells, candles, etc., in all about twenty one customs were in succession introduced. When they came to the Gospels they did the same. At first these innovations were employed only as symbols, but afterwards were interpreted literally - about 300 years after Christ.  ABU2477

The Day of God hath come, wherein none is mentioned save Him. Blessed is every one possessed of true knowledge who hath recognized and attained, and woe to them that deny! The Concourse of the Bayan have turned away from Us and opposed Us without any clear proof or illuminating Book. They have denied God's favor after its revelation and rejected this manifest grace.  BH00030

The essential verities of the divine religions are changeless. How many sects have sprang up again drowned by the sea of time! They are like unto bubbles which are and yet are not... The course of this stupendous creation is not changed through their blind, dogmatic assertions, but they are changed through the force of circumstances or the exigencies of the time...   ABU1631

If a delegation of Baha'is should go to Japan they will do splendid work, because the Japanese think their own religion is out of date. Even the Mikado realized their religion was out of date, and so he invited representatives from the different religions to Tokyo; from the Moslems, Christians and the Jews. But he did not like what their representatives presented.  ABU0622

But alas! the religions of the world have made use of religion as a pretext for discord, considering each prophet as against the others. After their days certain dogmatic imitations crept in, and these imitations caused division. For the imitations which crept in were not reality but were purely superstitious and utterly inimical to the law laid down by the founders.  ABU0171

The tastes and inclinations of the people of Persia have decidedly changed; religious habits have disappeared and eventually unworthy habits may prevail in Persia. But rest assured the power of the Cause of God shall conquer and waves from this infinite sea shall surge and roll away, casting out upon the shore these foams and verily our legions shall have the victory.  AB00245

Similarly, today's relation to previous days is such that after darkness, selfish desires, unworthy deeds, and satanic acts had overtaken the world, and the merciful attributes and divine characteristics of the previous Manifestation were cut off and completely severed, then the true dawn broke and divine lights shone forth, and all these virtues were renewed on this day.  ABU0856

But some of the ignorant ones think that God's dispensation of Grace has come to an end, that His Treasury is exhausted, His Sovereignty terminated, His Spring of Bounties dried up. His creation concluded and the wheels of the chariot of His Everlasting Procession stopped! They believe that after the delightful spring of last year there will not be another joy-creating Spring.   ABU0349

An old tree, whose very roots are dried up shall never again push forth leaves, blossoms and fruits. Will it ever become verdant by simply asserting that once I was a supple, young tree? Or a foolish dotard, will he ever become rejuvenated by claiming that once I was a strong, powerful athlete? My friend! I advise you to throw away the swaddling-clothes of the childish humanity.  ABU1141

When a physical dispensary is closed, how greatly do people become alarmed. As soon as they learn of it, all people become distressed, wondering how they will cure their illnesses. The people's peace is entirely disrupted. They become severely anxious. Yet if the divine dispensary is closed, due to their extreme heedlessness people express joy. What profound negligence this is.   ABU2458

They have comprehended and borne of those words is from their own learning which is in their grasp. Otherwise the matter is as I have informed thee and the mystery is as I have brought thee. It is as though I see all who are in the Bayan at the end of the exaltation of His Manifestation to be sleeping, until God shall raise up Him Whom God shall make manifest, exalted be His Cause.  BB00506

Throughout the nights and days, the divines, mystics and worshippers of Iran clung to matters that were not remembered in the sight of God. Glory be to God! Throughout the nights and days, all beseeched and supplicated for the days of His manifestation, yet when the Most Great Luminary shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of eternity, all turned away and denied, save whom God willed.  BH11611

The denials and protestations of these leaders of religion have, in the main, been due to their lack of knowledge and understanding. Those words uttered by the Revealers of the beauty of the one true God, setting forth the signs that should herald the advent of the Manifestation to come, they never understood nor fathomed. Hence they raised the standard of revolt, and stirred up mischief and sedition.  BH00002

All people, learned and ignorant, have awaited this Day, yet when the dawn of the divine Day broke, all were found veiled save a few letters of the Face of God, the Self-Subsisting. All veils and preventive coverings have been the divines of the age. Reflect upon what they did in former centuries and what they brought about. Blessed is he who cast them behind his back, turning unto the Supreme Horizon.  BH00167

Most people still know not what Day this is and what Cause this is. They are like sheep - when one goes forth on a path, all the others follow behind it. Observe the very foundation of the religious beliefs of those heedless souls among the followers of the Qur'an who counted themselves the most exalted of creatures and knew themselves greatest of all, yet for ages and centuries followed imaginary words.  BH00325

You observe how revolution and turmoil have brought trembling and convulsion to the pillars of the world. Corruption has appeared on land and sea. All traces of the love of God have been severed from those on earth. Each one soars according to his own desire and pursues his own aims, utterly heedless of God. The foundation of divine religion has vanished, and customs and habits have spread among the people.  AB03894


Consequently, the government arose in vehement opposition to them, and declared their hatred for and weariness of religion altogether, deigning to make mention of the subject only to scorn and ridicule it. This state of affairs can be attributed only to the mistakes made by the leaders of religion, who rather than serve as channels to promote the tenets of the religion of God, instead became the cause of hatred and ruin.  ABU3697

No matter how brilliant a receding star is, its light never reaches to this world. Worship thou the newly ascendent Shining Luminary whose lights are glittering and whose proof is self-evident... No matter how much endeavor and effort is shown, a tree which hath been in existence for two thousand years or more will never bring new and fresh fruits. This is the truth and there is nothing beyond the truth but manifest error.  AB01721

Therefore, there is need of turning back to the original foundation. The fundamental principles of the Prophets are correct and true. The imitations and superstitions which have crept in are at wide variance with the original precepts and commands. Baha'u'llah has revoiced and reestablished the quintessence of the teachings of all the Prophets, setting aside the accessories and purifying religion from human interpretation.  ABU0293

Then by degrees these fragrances of heaven were discontinued; the season of winter came upon the world; the beauties of spring vanished; the excellences and perfections passed away; the lights and quickening were no longer evident; the phenomenal world and its materialities conquered everything; the spiritualities of life were lost; the world of existence became life unto a lifeless body; there was no trace of the spring left.  ABU1161

All the created phenomena are subject to the law of change and transmutation. Youth is followed by old age; a tender plant becomes an old, decrepit tree; dynasties are born, wax strong, reach to the zenith of glory and then totter to the ground. Likewise, every one of the world religions has been the Cause of progress and advancement in its own time, but now they have become like old, very old trees. They do not yield any more luscious fruits. Some people persist in the unscientific belief that these very old trees will again become young, push forth leaves, blossoms and fruits. This is impossible.  ABU2675


A few centuries are elapsed and again the world of humanity returns to its natural state of barbarism, is entangled in the meshes of darkness and error, and reverting back to its primal evil tendencies. The brilliant day is changed into the gloomy night, animal propensities take the place of merciful attributes, the illumination of religion disappears and the attractions of consciousness are transformed into satanic suggestions.   ABU0349

Glory be to God! All await the divine days, and in the nights and days they implore and supplicate with the utmost humility and devotion for the meeting with the Self-Sufficient, the Most High. Nevertheless, when the Sun of Truth shone forth from the horizon of the world, all remained occupied with their own idle fancies and devoted to the idols of their own selves. They have forsaken the Truth and clung to that which is unseemly.  BH00118

Subsequently, thy letter sent from Beirut was received and caused joy. God willing, may all attain to the greatest joy - that is, to what is now manifest and evident from the horizon of the world. All divine Books speak of this most mighty, most holy, most wondrous Day, yet all are found to be veiled. How many trials did the Ancient Beauty endure so that some of the veils of contention and the clouds of glory might be rent asunder.  BH00036

As nature needs a springtime to revive the trees, so the spiritual nature needs a springtime to fill the garden with flowers and fruits. It was through the manifestation of Jesus Christ that this spiritual springtime began. Summer followed with its fruits and, later, autumn came. Winter followed and the trees were naked; that is, the people were without their divine qualities. So again, it became necessary that a new springtime should come.  ABU1318

Indeed, all have been commanded to manifest such attributes, character and conduct as would, like a mighty magnet, attract the hearts of the servants. There is no doubt that if anything contrary to the explicit divine commands should occur, even to the extent of a hair's breadth, the utmost harm would result, even if that matter might outwardly appear praiseworthy in the eyes of men - how much more so for matters whose harm is as evident as the sun!  AB07085

As long as Their true teachings are actually carried out, they cause the exaltation of the human world, but after those divine teachings which pertain to the world of morality are forgotten, rules and customs emerge which spring from the world of self, and then that religion becomes the cause of degradation. Now the divine foundation no longer remains, this lamp's lights have set, only the wick and candlestick remain, from which no light is produced.  ABU0519

Though at times, due to the multitude of transgressions of Israel, the cup of glory became bitter, and the sun of divine bounty was concealed behind clouds of abasement, yet afterward their original glory re-emerged and their ancient majesty was restored. Now, for nearly three thousand years, Israel had fallen to the depths and become abased and humiliated. Yet again the rays of grace have shone forth and the manifestation of divine bounty has been perfected.  AB11487

Observe how the people of divine unity appeared with such power and ascendancy in the early days, and to what weakness they are now subjected. What became of that power, and whence came this weakness? The aim was none other than the exaltation of the Word of God and likewise the salvation of humanity. Surely you have heard what they have said and what they have done. This is not the first Cause to appear in the world, nor the first flask to be broken in Islam.  BH01364

For instance, the Mosaic religion in the time of Moses was the cause of exaltation, but after the appearance of Christ, the Christian religion was the cause of exaltation. After the appearance of Muhammad, the Muhammadan religion was the cause of exaltation. Now traditional rules and customs remain, while that which was the foundation of divine religions has disappeared - what remains? Mere traditions, and these traditions are the cause of the degradation of souls.  ABU0519

Although We have, in the Books, Tablets, Scriptures and Epistles, forbidden conflict, corruption and strife, and have commanded that which leadeth to salvation, nearness unto God, goodly deeds and praiseworthy character, yet glory be to God! Though the Sun of Truth is shining, the ocean of knowledge and wisdom is surging, the rivers of bounty are flowing, and the Sacred and Blessed Tree is speaking, all are found to be veiled save a few, and few of My servants are truly thankful.  BH09331

Do we not see today that the advocates of former religions are entirely deprived of the noble spirit of their founders and are chained and bounded by the cruel hand of nature? One cannot find a trace of the spiritual outpourings nor is he vivified by a breeze from those former divine gardens. They have instituted amongst themselves a set of rules and doctrines which have destroyed utterly the Spirit of freedom and are walking blindly in the footsteps of their forebears and ancestors.   ABU0349

Christ, for many years in this Holy Land, through word and deed taught the people these eternal principles and journeyed throughout Palestine, and gradually His teachings encompassed the world. But alas, a thousand times alas, that people forgot these divine principles. They cast those precious jewels into the furnace of self and passion. They set aside those loving counsels and exhortations and arose in oppression and aggression the like of which has never been witnessed in the world.  ABU0417

Then many ages roll by and the spirit of these words are forgotten; the objects of divine religions are set at naught; ceremonies and traditions [creep] in and the ideals of truth are neglected. Thu[s] religion will become purely sacerdotal, the reality back of the religio[n] is disregarded, superstitions abound, the proclivities of materialism displace all spiritual emotions, the Graces of the Almighty are overlooked and the inclinations of the world of nature are strengthened and reinforced.  ABU0599

If for a thousand years a man takes food, and nourishes his body, yet if for two or three days that nourishment ceases, his body will become weakened and dispersed. The assistance of food cannot be withheld from man. If this takes place it causes death. Likewise, the Heavenly Table is ended, the Divine Manifestations are finished and later no Manifestation will appear; that this was the last Revelation; The Divine Sovereignty has come to its final condition and the world of existence is ended?  ABU1557

For three years I was away from the fanatical prejudices of the East and breathed in the Western clime the air of the freedom of conscience and the broad, catholicity of human and divine principles was much to my liking. After my return to Alexandria, the Minister of the reception to the then Khedive invited me to his home where I found a number of Pashas and Beys with whom I spoke about religion and the need of reformation and urged the necessity of an entire rehabilitation of the moral codes.  ABU1141

O people of the Bayan! Ye have reached a station wherein We impart unto you that which was revealed in the cycle of the Furqan, that haply ye may turn unto the All-Merciful Who hath appeared in truth with manifest sovereignty. Say: Ye have imagined within yourselves that ye have attained the ultimate goal in the knowledge of your Lord, the Lord of all beings, yet ye deny that which the people of the Furqan have acknowledged. Woe unto you, then destruction be upon you, O company of the heedless!   BH01401

And when days and nights revolved and matters proceeded and judgments were passed, differences appeared among the divines, and thereby true sayings became mixed with false ones, as ye witness in their words and observe in their deeds. Since the matter is as We have explained to thee, how canst thou distinguish truth from falsehood after they have all differed concerning God's Cause to such extent that thou wilt not find two of them agreed upon a single matter, and in all things they continued to differ?  BH00031

When, in the beginning of the seventh century of the Christian era, Jerusalem was conquered, the Holy of Holies--that is, the edifice that Solomon had erected--was outwardly preserved, but its outer court was seized and given over to the Gentiles. And the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two months; that is, the Gentiles will seize and subdue Jerusalem for forty-two months, or 1,260 days, or--each day being equivalent to a year--1,260 years, which is the duration of the Qur'anic Dispensation.  AB00019

Through these are strengthened the bonds of trust which cannot be broken - bonds which consist in the submersion of hearts in the spring of certitude, in sincerity in religion, and in thirst for truth in a time when the dust that has been stirred up has encompassed both inner and outer vision, when naught remains of religion save traditions unauthorized by God, when the earth has been shaken with its earthquake, when the pillars of the gentle, white Law have been made to tremble, and when they have forsaken this Qur'an.  AB00967

And as he went deeper into the core of those manifold beliefs, he discovered that from the day of the Prophet Muhammad's advent until our own times, innumerable sects have arisen: creeds differing among themselves; disparate opinions, divergent goals, uncounted roads and ways. And he found each one, under some plea or other, claiming to reveal spiritual truth; each one believing that it alone followed the true path--this although the Mu?ammedic sea could rise in one great tide, and carry all those sects away to the ocean floor.  AB00002

The world has been encompassed by the smoke of heedlessness - that smoke which was mentioned in the Tablets and about which people would inquire has appeared. These are souls who have arisen to oppose without any cause, and with the utmost deceit and cunning strive to lead poor souls astray. The dust of ignorance, like a disease of the eyes, has prevented them from beholding the effulgent rays of the Sun of Revelation. They have forgotten the counsels of the Most Exalted Pen and have erased the words inscribed in the Crimson Book.  BH00072

These people have failed to realize that divine religion is totally opposed to such vain imaginings and blind imitation, and that, in every age, God's religion has been founded upon the advancement of nations and the progress of peoples. Even those secondary teachings which in this day and age seem inappropriate to us were perfectly suited to their own time. It is the changing of these secondary teachings, with the passage of time and in accordance with the circumstances of each era, that conduces to the security and prosperity of all humankind.  ABU3675

For instance, in the first beginning of the appearance of Moses was the sprint time of his day. The summer time was when many people had accepted him, believed in him, promulgated his teachings, that his fruit was gathered. Then came the autumn, when his commands first began to be neglected, and the true followers began to fall away, and the true teachings to sink into decay. Then came the winter, when the hearts ceased to turn unto God, where occupied with worldly things entirely, and spiritual death was apparent. Then came the spring time of Christ.  ABU0895

But alas, a thousand times alas! Religion, which should serve to promote oneness and love among men, has become an instrument of animosity and hatred. Religion, which was established to build up and gladden hearts, has become a means of darkening the world. Instead of these simple principles we now have dogmas and imitations, and because the dogmas and imitations differ we have constantly strife and war. Fanaticism is the only aim. These fanatics are actually thirsty for their brother's blood, they condemned one another and considered each other unclean.   ABU0212

From the seed of reality religion has grown into a tree which has put forth leaves and branches, blossoms and fruit. After a time this tree has fallen into a condition of decay. The leaves and blossoms have withered and perished; the tree has become stricken and fruitless. It is not reasonable that man should hold to the old tree, claiming that its life forces are undiminished, its fruit unequaled, its existence eternal. The seed of reality must be sown again in human hearts in order that a new tree may grow therefrom and new divine fruits refresh the world.  ABU0161

"They are like unto those souls who say: 'We don't like fresh flowers, but we are satisfied with withered and decayed flowers.' Decayed flowers do not have sweet fragrance; their odour is not good; they have no freshness and charm. The fresher the flower the sweeter it is and the more charming. If old and decayed flowers were good, then the Adamic flower would have been sufficient. Every new year needs a new flower; new fruits are necessary, fresh and gentle breezes are needed. Every new day requires new food, you cannot partake of the decayed food of yesterday."   ABU0728

Ye wrote further that no one, whether from within or without, could doubt that the Bab confirmed Mirza Yahya, in that He wrote to His followers in diverse terms concerning his truth, declaring explicitly and in clear terms for the imitators and common folk that after Me, he is, and obedience to him is incumbent on all, he is the successor and vicegerent, whatever exists after Me is he. But for those of insight and understanding He revealed other words, saying: Verily the Cause will end with the Name of Vahid for his revelation is in itself proof and needeth no text.  BH00004

Indeed, the conditions of these lands and the state of the servants are a cause of wonderment. One observes how greatly the call of the divine Prophets was raised in this wilderness, guiding the people to the direction of the Lord of creation, yet now they remain veiled and heedless of that which was the primary purpose and universal aim. The Sun of Truth is manifest and the veil has been lifted from the countenance of the exponents of inner meanings, yet the people are afflicted with weakness of sight and deficiency of vision, and thus are deprived and forbidden from beholding.  BH02616

In the beginning, this tree was full of vitality and laden with blossoms and fruits, but gradually it grew old, spent, and barren, until it entirely withered and decayed. That is why the True Gardener will again plant a tender sapling of the same stock, that it may grow and develop day by day, extend its sheltering shade in this heavenly garden, and yield its prized fruit. So it is with the divine religions: With the passage of time their original precepts are altered, their underlying truth entirely vanishes, their spirit departs, doctrinal innovations spring up, and they become a body without a soul. That is why they are renewed.  AB00347


Today the Kawthar of utterance floweth from the Pen of the Most Merciful, and the Sun of bounty shineth from the horizon of the world, and the Ocean of loving-kindness surgeth, yet the servants are heedless and veiled from beholding the light of His countenance. Throughout the nights and days they sought audience with the Lord of all beings, yet when the Day of His Manifestation appeared and the Speaker on Sinai spoke forth, all turned away save whom God willed. Some have arisen in opposition, others have striven mightily to extinguish the light, and yet another party hath clung to the book of the debased, depriving themselves of the Book of the exalted ones.  BH00809

Once upon a time religion was like a comely youth overflowing with vital force. The youth was in the utmost freshness and charm, adorned with infinite virtues and attuned with the music of vigor and health. But now he is stricken with old age. His eyes are dimmed, his ears do not hear, his feet are paralyzed, his hands are weak, his physical forces are exhausted. He is afflicted with senility and dotage. Or this tree was once young and saple. Its branches were green. The fowls of the earth lodged in its twigs and built their nests. It has grown and developed and brought much luscious fruits. Now it has grown hoary with age, it is decayed and rottenness has overtaken it.   ABU0538

A thousand regrets that this mighty foundation has been abandoned and obscured. All religions have created traditions that have no connection with the foundation of divine religion, and since these traditions differ, differences lead to disputation and disputation ends in warfare. The blood of the innocent is shed, possessions are pillaged and plundered, and children are left helpless and captive. Religion, which should be the cause of fellowship, becomes the cause of enmity. Religion, which should be as sweet honey, becomes deadly poison. Religion, which should be the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity, becomes the cause of darkness. Religion, which should be the cause of eternal life, has become the cause of death.  AB00279

For instance, in a particular age, a Prophet sent by God appears for the edification of man and establishes the foundations of the happiness and well-being of the people. But then through the appearance of the next Prophet, changes are manifested in accordance with the age's requirements - and these changes are due to the Second Teacher. This is necessary because after the sun has dawned and given light to the world, then the darkness of night is spread. If the sun does not dawn again on the following day, the whole world is laid to waste and destruction. Therefore it is essential for the sun to appear once again. If a wise and complete philosopher has established a foundation that is ruined over time, then it is required for another one to come and reconstitute this foundation.  ABU0639

When that Sun reaches its zenith it begins to decline, and that summer season of the spirit is followed by autumn. Growth and development are arrested, soft breezes turn into blighting winds, and the season of dearth and want dissipates the vitality and beauty of the gardens, the fields and the bowers. That is, spiritual attractions vanish, divine qualities decay, the radiance of the hearts is dimmed, the spirituality of the souls is dulled, virtues become vices, and sanctity and purity are no more. Of the law of God naught remains but a name, and of the divine teachings naught but an outward form. The foundations of the religion of God are destroyed and annihilated, mere customs and traditions take their place, divisions appear, and steadfastness is changed into perplexity. Spirits die away, hearts wither, and souls languish.  AB00086

Consider, for example: could the Law of the Torah be enforced in this day and age? No, by God! This would be entirely impossible; and it is for this reason that at the time of Christ the Law of the Torah was perforce abrogated by God. Consider, likewise, that in the days of John the Baptist the purification of baptism served to awaken and admonish the people and to cause them to repent of all sin and to await the advent of the Kingdom of Christ. But today in Asia, the Catholics and the Orthodox plunge infants into a mixture of water and olive oil, in such wise that some fall ill from this ordeal and tremble and struggle at the time of baptism. Elsewhere the priest sprinkles the baptismal water onto the forehead. But in neither case do these children experience any spiritual feelings. What good then can this do? Other peoples wonder and question why this infant is being plunged into the water, since it confers neither spiritual awareness nor faith nor awakening, but is merely a custom that is being followed. In the time of John the Baptist, however, it was not so: John would first admonish the people, lead them to repent of sin, and exhort them to anticipate the advent of Christ. Then, whoever received the purification of baptism would repent of his sins with utmost meekness and humility, cleanse and purify his body likewise from outward defilements, and with perfect yearning await, night and day and from moment to moment, the advent of Christ and admittance into His Kingdom.   AB00211


The Baha'i message is a call to religious unity and not an invitation to a new religion, not a new path to immortality, God forbid! It is the ancient path cleared of the debris of imaginations and superstitions of men, of the debris of strife and misunderstanding  ABU2950

We must relinquish all the rituals and forms which have accumulated for the past ages around the Immortal Image of Truth, completely hiding It from our views.  ABU1045

Discarding all the accumulated dogmas and pagan rituals of the past ages we must return to the fountain head of the Teachings of Christ as he uttered them here many generations ago. This is the only way.  ABU0289

The people, therefore, must be set completely free from their old patterns of thought, that all their attention may be focused upon these new principles, for these are the light of this time and the very spirit of this age.  AB02117

This is the day when dogmas must be sacrificed in our search for truth. We must leave behind all save what is necessary for the needs of today, nor attach ourselves to any form or ritual which is in opposition to moral evolution.  ABU1015

Therefore, as long as these traditions persist and this snare of deception remains set, nothing but harm to the human world will result from religion. Thus these ancient and decaying traditions which are practiced in religions must be entirely cast aside, and the foundation of divine religions must be investigated.  AB00279

"We should, therefore, detach ourselves from the external forms and practices of religion. We must realize that these forms and practices, however beautiful, are but garments clothing the warm heart and the living limbs of Divine truth. We must abandon the prejudices of tradition if we would succeed in finding the truth at the core of all religions."   ABU0282

Speaking about the various denominations and sects which now and then crop up amongst the various religions he said: "They appear and disappear. They have no importance whatsoever in the religious world. They are not based upon a permanent foundation. They are built on the shifting sand of time. The essential verities of the divine religions are changeless. How many sects have sprang up again drowned by the sea of time! They are like unto bubbles which are and yet are not… The course of this stupendous creation is not changed through their blind, dogmatic assertions, but they are changed through the force of circumstances or the exigencies of the time"  ABU1631


The religion of God is one religion, but it must ever be renewed. Moses, for example, was sent forth to man and He established a Law, and the Children of Israel, through that Mosaic Law, were delivered out of their ignorance and came into the light; they were lifted up from their abjectness and attained to a glory that fadeth not. Still, as the long years wore on, that radiance passed by, that splendour set, that bright day turned to night; and once that night grew triply dark, the star of the Messiah dawned, so that again a glory lit the world.   AB00829

Gradually these heavenly teachings and foundations of reality have been beclouded by human interpretations and dogmatic imitations of ancestral beliefs.  ABU0161

Soon many of these ignoble customs will be changed. The ways of His Holiness the Bab in Bushihr caused many of the old and sterile traditions to be changed.  ABU3669

O friends of old - all Zoroastrians throughout all lands and regions, upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!  O beloved friends! Every individual, when appearing from the East of life in the world of existence, must inevitably one day vanish in the West of nothingness. From the beginning of birth one grows and develops, drinks sweet milk from life's breast, and is nurtured in the cradle of comfort and bounty until reaching maturity. Like a sapling, one puts forth leaves and blossoms, becomes fruitful, yields delicate fruit, advances day by day until reaching the degree of perfection. Thereafter decline sets in, strength diminishes day by day until becoming like an old tree bereft of fruit. Finally all freshness and grace depart, listlessness and withering appear, usefulness ceases to such a degree that no hope remains for growth, freshness or grace. Now the true Gardener must sow the seed of that same tree in the garden so it may grow anew, develop and become an incomparable sapling, flourishing with utmost freshness, grace and freedom, bestowing upon the world of creation once again its former glory and ancient blessing with utmost delicacy, beauty and sweetness. The wise gardener acts thus, but the ignorant gardener strives to make that old tree grow again, which is impossible and unattainable.  Now several blessed trees in former times grew and developed in this garden of existence and divine paradise of bounty until they manifested their perfections in the meadow of reality. Divine grace and bounty became evident, and all that was necessary of true influence and human virtues became manifest and visible. The tree grew mighty, its branches extended, cast shade over the world of creation, and nations and peoples found rest beneath its extended shade and were nourished by its good fruits. When its life cycle ended, renewal became necessary and another sapling from that same blessed tree began to grow and develop. AB00200
