They have cast the Book of God behind their backs, clinging to idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH09980

The Names broke God's covenant and His testament until they openly denied the Mighty, the All-Choosing.  BH06258

Sometimes they say the Bayan has been altered, uttering calumnies the like of which have never been heard in creation.   BH02359

For twelve hundred years and more they recited the Book of God, the Furqan, yet failed to comprehend a single letter thereof.  BH03018

New words have appeared and old sayings have emerged from the sacks of heedlessness. They say the Bayan has been corrupted, just as the previous party said and were cast into hell.   BH04435

The notorious Dawlat-Abadi has denied the Book of God and has intended to eliminate it. This grief is greater than all the griefs of the world. His followers say this Text is not authentic.   BH05363

Whatever divine verses they possessed, they added some fabricated ones and gave them to the people of this land, creating great mischief. But their efforts in this vain life came to naught.   BH00617

The oppressor of Dawlat-Abad, finding the Persian Bayan which flowed from the Pen of the Primal Point to be at variance with his opinions and the opinions of his like, hath desired to obliterate it.  BH08524

This servant hath heard from the tongue of the Divine Unity words indicating that most of the people of that land have turned away from the shore of divine glory due to forged and fabricated tablets.  BH04610

They contain many inspired utterances, but through the lapse of time human ideas have crept in and afterwards men have come to believe that they are all, in their totality the revealed words of God.   ABU2493


Again fie upon them! Some portions that were sent from Shiraz arrived in one day, mostly with errors and in some places altered. It seems that in Shiraz thieves have themselves sent groups of such surihs.   BB00119

The Covenant-breakers produced a tablet, which they attributed it to the Ancient Beauty... Then He gave an explanation about how such a tablet never existed and was not from the Ancient Beauty and was not in His blessed idiom.  ABU2817

the purpose was that the divine proof be completed against those polytheistic souls, although it was already complete. Otherwise, the condition of every soul has been and will be known. One who has taste perceives the flavor of good fruits.   BH04666

They have confined and veiled the holy divine utterances through their own selfish interpretations to such a degree that anyone possessed of refined perception would detect the odour of malice in their false words and unacceptable expositions.  BH11688

In these days a new thought hath occurred to those false [treacherous] souls. They have intended to steal and erase the Book of God. Say: Woe unto you, O enemies of God and His Manifestation and His Cause! Fear ye God and be not among the oppressors.  BH11396

Among them is he who said that He hath plagiarized the verses of the Point and revealed them in His Name. At this My Most Exalted Pen hath lamented, and the dwellers of the Most Exalted Paradise. The Mother Book beareth witness to this in the most sublime station.  BH00043

In these days, sorrow upon sorrow and grief upon grief have appeared, for it hath been heard that an oppressor hath attempted to obliterate the Bayan and likewise the Qayyumu'l-Asma'. By His truth, this is an injustice whose fire consumeth the world and its peoples.   BH06356

His intention is destruction, and it is divided into two parts, one physical and the other spiritual. The physical abomination of desolation is the razing and destroying of buildings. The spiritual abomination of desolation is the destruction of the teachings of GOD.  ABU2914

By God! Thou hast perverted the words of God, and soon shall ye pervert and interpret them according to your own desires and passions, even as did those who preceded you. Soon wilt thou pervert the words of God as thou hast already done, exactly like the peoples of old.  BH01053

The teachings of Christ are forgotten. Consider that Christ commanded Peter to sheathe his sword. He also said, 'Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also'. But now, contrary to these teachings, see how Christians are killing one another.  ABU2836

Old arguments have been renewed - they say the Bayan has been altered. Say: By God's life! None has been, nor ever shall be, able to alter the Bayan. The purpose of the idolaters is to prevent people from beholding the divine books and thereby to carry out their own designs.  BH06859

Is it not possible that since the death of Christ and Baha'u'llah there has been a tendency toward superstitions as to miracles and so on to gather about the accounts of their lives? Baha'u'llah has closed the door to the introduction of these superstitutions and imitations.   ABU0703

Most of the divine utterances that have been revealed in this most holy and exalted Revelation have not been pondered by anyone. Some have distorted them from their true meaning, some have concealed them, and some have altered them according to the outward meaning of the words.  BH00004


The forms and superstitions which appeared and obscured the light did not affect the reality of Christ. For example, Jesus Christ said, "Put up thy sword into the sheath." The meaning is that warfare is forbidden and abrogated; but consider the Christian wars which took place afterward.  ABU0293

The manifestations of fire, namely the heedless divines, have prevented the people from the Dawning-Place of divine light. They worship vain imaginings while counting themselves among the assured ones; they bow down before idols while deeming themselves worshippers of the Lord of all beings.  BH03644

The Author of the Bayan declares: "Let not the Bayan veil you from Him, and turn not away from Him on account of its letters. The entirety of the Bayan is as but a leaf before Him - if He accepts it, it is accepted, and if He rejects it, verily He is to be loved in His Cause and obeyed in His decree."  BH04456

By the life of our Lord and the Lord of earth and heaven, what they have stated is truth, there is no doubt in it. All that has thus far been rent asunder of the thick veils and the concealing clouds, this heedless party has again afflicted the people with veils even thicker than before and continues to do so.  BH11608

The world hath been laid waste by vain imaginings. The world hath but one Builder, one Destroyer. The Command is in God's hands, the Lord of lords. The people are seen to be so heedless that one is astonished. If one veil is rent asunder, they are found to be afflicted with another veil greater than the first.   BH00385

Did you write the Bayan as God, your Beloved, the Beloved of the mystics, commanded you? Nay, by your life, you neither wrote it nor obeyed what you were commanded by Him, and became of the hesitating ones. Rather, you desired to keep people away from His command and prohibition, and to be among those who distance others.  BH01381

The word of the polytheists regarding what We have revealed unto thee is that the Remembrance taketh letters from the Qur'an and revealeth verses in an eloquent Arabic tongue. By thy Lord! They have lied against God and fabricated concerning Our verses due to what Satan cast into their souls, and these are the transgressors.   BB00091

For twelve hundred years the leaders of the followers of the Qur'an led people astray. They were themselves astray and caused others to go astray, yet they counted themselves among the guides and the Mahdi. They were leaders to the fire, yet regarded themselves as guides to the light, as hath become clear and evident to all the world.  BH00023

When asked about the alteration of the holy books, they said there was not just one book of the Gospel in all the world, there were many books. How would it have been possible to gather these and alter them? Now in the Vatican there is a manuscript Gospel from seventeen hundred years ago written on gazelle skin that has not changed at all.   ABU1921

Consider that Mirza Badi'u'llah wrote in his own hand, published and distributed that Mirza Muhammad-Ali had altered the Book of God, meaning he had removed passages from the Book of God and written other passages, attributing them to the Blessed Beauty. Yet despite this proclamation, he again formed bonds of friendship with him and made peace.  AB00107

The latest news these days is that they have written that the heedless Dawlat-Abadi is engaged in compiling the Persian Bayan from the Divine Book and the commentary of Ahsanu'l-Qisas, intending to obliterate these two mighty books... By God's life, lamentation is needed, for this is exactly like the previous statement when they said this Quran is not that Quran.  BH02970

Draw ye your proofs from what hath been revealed in the Bayan, yet ye enter not into what We have revealed concerning the exposition of the Furqan in the Bayan. We have manifested Our Cause in the letter Ha according to what was revealed in the Furqan, that We might test you and that ye might bear witness concerning your Cause - whether ye are sincere in your religion.  BB00003

They made a mockery of God's laws, transgressed the fortress of His Cause, and were among the heedless. The harm of their deeds returned to the root of the Tree--thus was the matter, if thou be of them that hear. Verily, those who dispute and fight with people have departed from the paradise of justice and are accounted among the oppressors in the preserved tablets of might.   BH00195

They removed all the Sacred Writings and Tablets belonging to this servant and to others, even those pertaining to commandments whose adjustments were in my possession. Consider how far their iniquity did reach. And yet, this servant remained silent and serene, lest this foul odour be diffused throughout all regions, and these dreadful events become fully known to the fomenters of discord.  AB00005

The Point of the Bayan has said that in the year nineteen, all who are in the Bayan should write books to each other proving He Whom God shall make manifest. His purpose was that all should be occupied with this Most Great Remembrance through tongue, hand, pen and heart, lest the people of the Bayan should act like the Shi'ih sect. However, His counsels produced the opposite effect in most of the hearts of the opposers of the Bayan.  BH00072

All grief has been and is in hearing such words, even though they have observed that the greatest matter which was established and confirmed among the Shi'ih party for one thousand two hundred years or more proved contrary to fact. Nevertheless, they now cling to similar things and remain deprived of the court of oneness. By God! They have no share of the Book and its meanings, its outer and its inner aspects. We testify that he is among the most lost ones.   BH01662

Corruption of the text, in the sense We have referred to, hath been actually effected in particular instances. A few of these We have mentioned, that it may become manifest to every discerning observer that unto a few untutored holy Men hath been given the mastery of human learning, so that the malevolent opposer may cease to contend that a certain verse doth indicate corruption of the text, and insinuate that We, through lack of knowledge, have made mention of such things.  BH00002

In brief, if you refer to history, you will observe that more than a thousand books were written and circulated in rejection of Christ (may the spirit of all be a sacrifice for Him). Most of these works were by the most eminent religious scholars of the world. Nevertheless, after three hundred years, the blessed countenance of Christ shone so brilliantly from the horizon of truth that all these calumnies vanished like darkness, and of those books, merely their names remained in religious histories.  AB11634

Concerning the objection of Shaykh Abdu'r-Rahim thou hadst written that in the traditions of the infallible ones there appears the alteration of certain words and letters of the Quran, and likewise in the books of the Sunnis, in certain instances other than the verse and of knowledge ye have been given but little, in a single verse two different words have been recorded, both of which are permissible and valid. Despite this, why did the Shaykh not attribute the error to Uthman the Lame but rather to the Pen of the Most Great Servitude?  AB06693

Yet observe the people of the Bayan - how some of them, when they saw that the holy, eternal verses were being revealed from the clouds of the All-Merciful Will like torrential rain without pause, in such wise that none could reckon their number, therefore sought to conceal this manifest proof behind veils of rancor and iniquity. Thus did some say that verses have a spirit, a soul, and a body, and likewise an outer shell and an inner core. Dust be upon the head of the speaker and ashes upon the mouth of the utterer! This saying hath divided the divine verses into fragments, even as He hath aforetime said: They have made the Quran into shreds.  BH11688

They have taken their vain imaginings and cast the Book of God behind their backs   BH03343

They cast the Book of God behind their backs in that they followed every ignorant doubter  BH02793

They seek to prove what they believe through the verses while denying Him Who revealed them.   BH06241

Heed thou not the idle talk of the people of the Bayan, who pervert the meaning of every word.  BHU0049

They read what We revealed aforetime and reject that which is greater. Lo! They are of the idolaters.  BH04226

Beware lest ye be veiled by allusions or by the words of those who know not their left from their right.   BH07616

Those who have said that "He Whom God shall make manifest" is the Primal Point Himself have spoken unjustly   BH01712

Among the people are those who play with God's verses - for this do those in the heavens and earth curse them  BH04425

At the time of His Holiness Jesus Christ the Jews forsook Him, and would imagine a phantasmal god and would adore that!  ABU1052

This is the Day whereon everything hath spoken as spake the Tongue of Power at the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing   BH01673

Beware lest ye alter the Temple of God. Know ye what We have informed you of before, then aid your Lord, the Mighty, the Wise.   BH01508

Some minds may not accept certain ordinances mentioned in the divine Books due to their ignorance of the hidden wisdom therein.   BH00501

They deny the station which He declares cannot be known through Him or what was revealed in the Bayan, measuring it by their own vain imaginings  BH01670

"For six thousand years misunderstandings have kept humanity divided...Misunderstandings have been among the people. People have bowed to imitations."  ABU0961

The Knower of the unseen remindeth them through the Book of God, yet they perceive not. My Most Exalted Pen maketh them aware, yet they turn away from it.   BH09554

Say: Beware lest ye utter that which God hath not permitted unto you. Thus hath the matter been decreed. Blessed is he who hath taken unto the Truth a way.   BH04321

The blessed expositions infuse the stone, but had no effect on him. It is the story of the deaf man and the trumpet, and the mirror in the hand of the blind.  ABU3661

Glory be to God! The words of the former party have resurfaced - they say "This Bayan is not that Bayan," just as they said "This Qur'an is not that Qur'an."   BH06356

"But because imitations have crept into religions, divisions and misunderstanding have resulted. These imitations cannot be found in the reality of religion."  ABU2293

Glory be unto God! Throughout ages and centuries they have been engaged in reading the Book of God, yet remained deprived and forbidden from understanding it.   BH04375

Cast ye aside all allusions and intimations, place them beneath your feet, and turn with radiant faces unto a station that hath been illumined by the lights of the Throne.   BH01810

"These people are like unto the Mohammadan who never prayed in his life...Yes! the trouble is you remember only that which is useful to your own purpose and forget the rest"  ABU2144

They have disbelieved who say that the Word of God taketh verses that are sent down in the Book from the Qur'an - say: Glory be to Him and exalted is He above what they associate!   BB00284

If they deny My mention, can any mention of them remain in the Bayan? Nay, by the Knower of hidden things! The entire Bayan is adorned with My Name and embellished with My mention.   BH03602


He also changed the words of the Blessed Perfection. Find the treatise of Agha Mirza Badiullah and read it. See how Mohammad Ali changed the book of God; the proof of this is in our hands.   AB00702

Protect Thy weak servants from the doubts of the people of vain desires, from the distortion of clear verses, from following ambiguous verses, and from the interpretations of the people of lusts.  AB01372

The veils of the learned have deprived the world from the All-Knowing Lord...Would that they had sufficed with this much! But finally they issued the decree for the death of the Lord of the world.  BH02466

But the heedless and ignorant souls have interpreted this word according to their own imaginings, and thus remained deprived of the Kawthar of certitude and forbidden from the manifestation of God   BH08117

"When Moses got down from Mount Sinai and saw his people have corrupted themselves by the worship of the molten calf saying: 'These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt'"   ABU0291

They have risen in opposition in such wise as cannot be described in words, and God is witness to what I say, save those who have cast the idolaters behind their backs and their allusions beneath their feet.   BH01408

Some souls imagined that the Blessed Beauty had considerations of father and son, not knowing that He established the power of the Covenant for the propagation of God's Cause and the triumph of the Word of God  ABU2561

Every people follows their Messenger, yet all are veiled from what I have willed for them. Each recites what was revealed in the Books to their Messenger, yet they are far removed from what I intended therein.   BB00234

They would make mention of the imaginary by night and by day, yet when He Who is known appeared, they denied Him. They perceive not. Every polytheist has taken for himself a vain fancy apart from God. They understand not.   BH04519

Yet when the horizon of the Manifestation shone forth and the Lord of the Day of Resurrection appeared, We saw every name clinging to another name and taking it as lord for itself instead of God. Thus did their souls entice them.   BH06452

Nevertheless, the sightless ones of the world have said that what is sent down from the heaven of divine will has been stolen from the words of the Primal Point. Observe what injustice hath been perpetrated against this Wronged One.   BH03040

O thou who gazest upon the Countenance! Names have prevented most from the ocean of inner meanings, and mention of "successor," "guardian" and "mirror" hath deprived them of the Dayspring of verses and the Dawning-Place of clear proofs.   BH00178

First, most of these words were not and are not from the Exalted One - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him. Many of these sayings have been fabricated and continue to be fabricated. Thou art not fully informed of the details.  BH00004

The divines of Egypt objected to Moses, the divines of the Torah and the idolaters to the Spirit, and the divines of the idols, the Gospel and the Torah to the Seal of the Prophets, bringing forth that which caused the Mother Book to lament.  BH02754

Should anyone discover the interpretations of My Book and the allusions of My words, he would bear witness that from the beginning of the Cause I made mention of him according to his station and rank, but the people are in manifest ignorance.  BH02497

Thou hast distorted what hath descended from the heaven of bounty, interpreting it according to mere fancy, and what was mentioned in the Bayan concerning the subsequent Manifestation thou hast perverted, referring it to the realm of vain imaginings.  BH01053

Although the people of the Bayan have heard and continue to hear the cursing, rejection and condemnation of the former people openly declared from pulpits without any concealment or veil, yet they are occupied in establishing such a people themselves.   BH02425

If they had fairness, all should weep blood and wail in the wilderness, for they use the words of the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - to prove the truth of one besides Him while striking with the sword against His own Self.  BH00004

Verily those who have not become acquainted with a single letter of the Cause have risen in falsehood and speak according to the promptings of their souls and their desires. By this have they been cursed in this world and the next, yet they perceive it not.   BH01237

Turn thy face toward God and detach thyself from those who at times speak as spoke the divines of the Qur'an, and at times speak as spoke the people of the Gospel, then the people of the Torah, and thus have they veiled themselves behind the veils of allusions.   BH00516

We show them the horizon of certitude but they turn away from it, and We cause them to hear the cooing of the Dove but they hearken not. The Pen of Revelation remindeth them at all times but they remember not. They follow the ignorant and call them learned ones.   BH04783

People have become confused about my station due to what I manifested of the knowledge of divine recognition and eloquence that God my Lord bestowed upon me, whereas it is not permissible for me to manifest these things as they were my personal responsibility alone.  BB00378

The first reason was that certain conditions were mentioned in the Holy Book regarding the Promised One, which were symbolic words rather than literal meanings. But since they took them literally, they turned away in pride, saying This Promised One is not that Promised One.  ABU0103

Consider what He said and what they say, what He did and what they do. They arose to cut down the Tree, and when their schemes were exposed, they opened their lips in calumny. You and all the people of the Bayan know that the Truth hath never been hidden nor concealed behind a veil.  BH00035

For souls who are deprived of this station, the sending down of heavenly food has been and will be divine wrath. Thus you witnessed how We seized the leader of the people with a wondrous Book, despite knowing his rejection and rebellion. Now what was a blessing for him became a curse   BH04666

Among them are those who ask of the drop concerning the ocean, its waves and its depths. Say: Woe unto you, O heedless ones! And among them are those who ask of the atom concerning the sun, its radiance, its light and its splendor - thus mayest thou know the state of these hateful ones.  BH11733

And you have contrived falsehoods according to your own desires, that perchance you may deprive the helpless ones of the Exalted Truth, as was done aforetime. Would that you could understand what purpose lay behind the fame that was given, which none comprehend save those possessed of insight.  BH00004

Even as they have repudiated Him in this day on the basis of such texts and traditions as appear to them to be contrary to their understanding. These traditions concern themselves with similar subjects, though none can understand their meaning except those who have been given an understanding heart.  BH00002

Behold the people of the Furqan - they interpreted but did not attain save those whom God aided with the truth. Thus does the All-Knowing teach you. The laws of wisdom and utterance have been scattered through the disagreements of the followers of religions - they are indeed among the distracted ones   BH05886

Man is bewildered by the veiling of the people of the lands. I know not in what valley they wander or to what thing they cling. Do they not see the rising of the Sun of inner meanings from the horizon of utterance, and do they not behold the dawning of the Luminary of knowledge and wisdom at the pole of possibility?  BH00642

It was all based on false and ill-intended stories and rumors. For instance, it was voiced among people that this Person had made lawful that which was forbidden by God and made prohibited that which God had allowed, and that He had abandoned fasting, obligatory prayers, jihad, and discarded the religion of His Grandfather.   ABU0917

Yet these deluded souls have not attained unto a drop from the ocean of utterance and speak that which no ignorant one has ever spoken. This servant is bewildered and amazed at how they have interpreted and understood the utterances of the Exalted One, for in some passages He speaks "Verily I am God, there is no God but Me."   BH00217

And whoso sayeth [He hath taken] letter by letter from the Qur'an - these are the polytheists. The likeness of the creation of letters before God is as the likeness of your own creation. There is none to change His verses, and the rejecters shall find on that Day, apart from the mention of God's name, no helper or supporter.   BB00091

The condition of the servants is evident - for years they have drunk from the cup of vain imaginings and have reached maturity at the breast of idle fancies. Assuredly they were not and are not worthy to draw near to the Most Great Ocean. They are familiar with buzzing and flee from the cooing of the doves of the supreme Paradise.  BH00253

Whoso worshippeth God in these days while remaining heedless of His Manifestation and His sovereignty, upon him shall be pronounced the judgment passed upon the followers of former religions, for they made mention of God and worshipped Him yet knew Him not, and thereby their works were rendered vain and they were among the losers.   BH01340

Let not your knowledge divide you, lest ye be veiled from its essence, for your entire religion resteth upon a single proof, around which ye circle. When God manifesteth that proof, He reneweth your religion as He pleaseth - that is the Day of Resurrection. Be not veiled from the proof of your religion by the conditions of your religion.  BB00003

O servants! What difference is there between you and other diverse peoples, and what distinction exists between you and the followers of the Qur'an? Just as they clung to names which they themselves had systematically arranged according to their own imaginings, you too have clung to a name while remaining heedless of the Creator of Names.  BH01771

In brief, observe that for a thousand years, nay more, these people have had naught but fancy in their grasp, and through a thousand established traditions and decisive utterances they confirmed to themselves this matter whose very foundation was imaginary, and they clung to it and counted as infidels and rejected ones those who denied it.   BH00646

O people! Act in accordance with what ye have been commanded in the Tablets, and follow not the ways of the ignorant ones who have cast the ordinances of God behind their backs and followed the ways of the fabricators - they who have taken a word from the Book and interpreted it according to their desires. These, verily, are among the perverters.   BH05508

When these night birds beheld this glory of God's Cause, they deemed it opportune and thereby began, in utmost secrecy from friend and stranger alike, to cast doubts, claiming: "We are the origin, the root and foundation of this Cause, both past and present." Through such means they confound the uninformed and cast the foolish into the realm of forgetfulness.  AB00300

Recently a statement hath appeared from these liars claiming that what the Exalted One meant by the year Nine was nine years after the appearance of Him Whom God shall make manifest, at the time of Mustaghath. Observe how far they have strayed from the path of truth and justice! By God, it would be better for the tongue to be struck dumb than to utter such words.  BH00060

Think not that those who were given the Qur'an understand what God intended therein, or that they comprehend what God hath willed. Consider those who were given the Gospel - how many servants believed in it and acted according to what was revealed therein, yet when God manifested the meaning of the Gospel and what He had intended therein, they became veiled from it.  BB00003

My heart was greatly grieved upon reading these words, for ye have reasoned exactly like the divinity students who now in their schools attempt to prove their points with imaginary proofs and ambiguous words. By your own admission ye consider the people of the Furqan to be deluded, yet your delusion is witnessed to be a hundred thousand degrees greater than that people.  BH00004

The favor of the True One, exalted be His glory, hath ever had precedence, and likewise His mercy, grace and generosity. How many souls have witnessed with their own eyes the rain of divine mercy at the time of its descent, and likewise have seen His clear proofs in the Surahs and Tablets. Nevertheless, they persist in their turning away and hold fast to their objections.  BH01788

This is the mystery of the tradition concerning Iblis, that after being veiled from the new prostration, he outwardly beseeched God saying, Forgive me, I will worship Thee with such worship as none hath ever rendered. Then came the divine revelation from his own self to his own self that I love to be worshipped in the way I have ordained, not in the way thou wouldst worship.  BB00005

Woe unto every learned one whom knowledge hath withheld from the Sovereign, the Self-Subsisting, and every mystic whom vain imaginings have veiled from the Hidden Name. By the life of God! Those who pride themselves on their knowledge in the days of God and occupy themselves therewith without His leave are indeed among the worshippers of names, as recorded in the Crimson Book.   BH00404

In truth, no one hath been or shall ever be capable of offering praise, thanksgiving and glorification to God as befitteth His station. How many among the learned who considered themselves as oceans of knowledge and counted themselves among the heaven of wisdom have today failed to attain unto a single drop of the most pure wine or to comprehend a single word of divine knowledge.  BH00584

Setting all this aside, have they not seen that throughout all days the King of Knowledge was afflicted at the hands of such people who are like cattle, and was exposed to destruction? Which deed could be more exalted in the sight of these base ones than the sacrifice of one's life? By God! They know all this, but envy, rancor and hatred have prevented them from uttering the truth.  BH04610

Most of the people of the world cling to their own desires, imagining themselves to be turning toward the truth... they have not truly comprehended the divine purpose in the revealed Books, but have contented themselves with whatever they have deduced from or heard from their divines. Should anyone transgress even slightly from these theological limitations, they pronounce him an infidel.  BH00091

Glory be to God! For twelve hundred years they counted themselves foremost among the peoples of the world, yet on the Day of Recompense that party was observed to be the most wretched of men, for they issued the decree for the martyrdom of the Lord of the world. Now it is incumbent, nay obligatory, upon all servants to protect the people from the suspicions and vain imaginings of the past.  BH04938

Consider the sect that clung to this word and was known as the Imamis. They took that Pure Being, by Whose word the successors and guardians were created, and suspended Him and martyred Him with the bullets of hatred and rancor. The curse of God be upon the wrongdoing people! Those souls who considered themselves the best of all sects ultimately proved to be the basest of all the world's peoples.  BH00164

Glory be to God! They desire to measure by the standard of their own idle fancies the King of existence Who hath brought that which equals all divine books, nay rather exceeds them. At times they cling to the Bayan and at times to vain imaginings, although the Primal Point, may our souls be sacrificed for His sake, hath said: He shall not be asked about My signs nor about what was revealed in the Bayan.  BH00072

All that they have written in apparent submission and acceptance hath been but a drop from the ocean of divine utterance. A hundred thousand souls like these have been and will be created with a word, yet despite this, thou writest falsely about God, slandering Him and His Presence, rebelling against His Glory, and affirming His enemies by claiming that the Bab said there was no need for His explicit text.  BH00004

Even as thou hast observed that after the widespread acceptance among all the servants of the Quranic references concerning the Promised Qa'im and His appearance in Jabulqa and Jabulsa, as well as the mention of the Seal of the Prophets which was the explicit text of the Book, God created servants who rent asunder all these references and evidences and the veil of clear text that was recorded in the Quran.   BH01077

The people are weak, and certain unprofitable and useless utterances of the people of the Furqan remain in their minds and hearts. Therefore they may give ear to certain vain imaginings. Say: The matter is not as such. Were that which is hidden from you to be unveiled, ye would abandon the world and whatsoever words and allusions are therein, and would hold fast unto the Word that hath encompassed the world.   BH00302

The Hebrew prophets were sent to announce Christ, but unfortunately the Talmud and its superstitions veiled Him so completely that they crucified their promised Messiah. Had they renounced the talmudic traditions and investigated the reality of the religion of Moses, they would have become believers in Christ. Blind adherence to forms and imitations of ancestral beliefs deprived them of their messianic bounty.   ABU0187

Among the deniers is one who claims that the Revelation hath appeared too soon, and that this is not the way of God as established of old. Say: Woe unto you, O concourse of deniers! Are ye more powerful than God and His Cause, or is He Who doeth as He willeth? And if ye acknowledge His power and sovereignty, He hath manifested Himself as He pleased and desired, and is not to be questioned about what He pleaseth.  BH00127

There are and there may be found some souls who collect the supplications of the Blessed Perfection and take out of every supplication a phrase or a sentence and then attribute it to themselves. Such people are like unto the man who gathers out of the Gospel sundry sayings of Christ, that is, he selects from every page a few words and as a result he composes phrases and sentences and claims to be the original writer.  AB03105

Now the deniers among the people of the Bayan cling to the deeds of the past and utter the words of that party. They say the Bayan hath been altered, denying whatsoever hath been revealed concerning this Most Great Revelation and Most Great Announcement, attributing it to alteration, although this Cause is self-evident and needeth no mention, and all the books and scriptures of the world are dependent upon its acceptance.   BH00387

Look, then remember when Muhammad, the Apostle of God, came, He was denied by the divines of idols and of the Torah and the Gospel. Among them was he who desired a house of gold, and among them was he who asked for a spring to gush forth, and among them was he who wished a book to descend from heaven, and among them was he who said before His face: "If this be the truth, then cause stones to rain down upon us from heaven."   BH03010

For example, the Muslims claim that the moon was cleft asunder by Muhammad and fell upon the mountain of Mecca. They imagine the moon to be a small body which Muhammad divided in twain, casting one part on one mountain and the other part on another! These tales are prompted by sheer fanaticism. Likewise, the accounts that the Christian clergy provide and the charges that they level are always exaggerated and often baseless.  AB00035

Now in every Revelation, if the learned ones would strive to prevent differences from arising - or if differences do arise, since they possess no inner comprehension to observe each thing in its proper place - they should, through divine wisdom and heavenly subtlety, resolve such differences, rejecting none but assigning to each a suitable station in existence, so that all may be educated in one way until the next Revelation.  BB00005

Among the divines are those who write what their idle fancies inspire them, turning aside from the Pen from which have flowed the springs of wisdom and utterance. Among the people are those whom the winds of idle fancies have stirred and held back from the shore of My Name, the Manifest, the Hidden. Among the people is he who claimeth the inner meaning and thereby holdeth back the people from a path which hath been straight in the eternal past.  BH00968

Among other things he asked about the sign of the Manifestation being that they would remove two well-known Shaykhs from their graves and hang them on two withered trees, whereupon those trees would instantly be observed to become green and flourishing. Observe how deluded this person is and at what station he stands. They carry their burdens upon their backs and perceive it not, and the volumes of allusions rest upon their hearts yet they understand not.   BH01662

Today the Kingdom of the Bayan boweth down in submission before the All-Merciful. All books and tablets are suspended upon His Will, and all who are in the Bayan are commanded to recognize this Most Great Remembrance, this momentous Announcement. Blessed is the one who hath broken the chains of idle fancies and vain imaginings through the Name of the Self-Subsisting, who hath forsaken that which is possessed by the people and held fast unto that which is with God.  BH00008

Furthermore, I know not what is meant by these interpretations you have mentioned. The interpreters are those who speak without seeing and judge without attaining. By God's grace, what We have mentioned has been from God's clear verses and from that which is accepted by you and the people of the Bayan, inasmuch as the Bayan was revealed only to command all explicitly and without interpretation that should anyone appear with divine verses, none should object to him.  BH00004

O thou who hast written concerning His statement that verily this Cause shall end with the Name of the Vahid -- I swear by God besides Whom there is none other God that thou hast not known Vahid nor understood who was intended. Fie upon those who have turned away from all the signs, who have taken but a single letter from the Book and used it to prove their contentions, who have denied God through Whose command were sent down glorious scriptures and sublime tablets!  BH00004

Those who have followed Our verses aforetime - these are they who are rightly guided. And those who follow their vain desires - naught of their deeds shall be accepted, and these are they who are the losers. Whosoever heareth the innovative decree, none of his deeds shall be recorded unless he believeth in thy Lord's verses and is among those possessed of certitude. What aileth these people that they perceive not aught of God's verses? These are they who are the wrongdoers.   BB00665

O servants! What answer will ye give unto the divine Herald? No, by God! Ye have no answer save either to return to the Sun of the horizon of divine power or to acknowledge that ye have disbelieved in the Primal Point in the First, and in the Later Temple in the Last. O people! Beware, then beware lest ye be veiled from the Truth by His creation and His signs, or object to His description by the Sovereign Describer, or close your eyes to His attributes by the King of attributes.  BH11688

For twelve hundred years and more, among the established and certain beliefs of the Shi'ih sect was the life of the Qa'im and His existence in well-known cities, and whosoever claimed His birth was put to death. Then it became clear and evident to men of insight that this sect had been in error, and throughout these twelve hundred years not one among their divines or others gained any knowledge of the birth of the Manifestation and the manner thereof, wandering instead in the valleys of fancy and imagination.  BH00107

And I testify before Thee concerning what people attribute to me, that I commanded naught in any book reaching unto all people save the purification of the air, and after making mention of the exaltation of Thy Cause and the Furqan, I joined therewith mention of the confirmation of Thy judgment from before upon all who believed in Thee until Thy judgment should reach them. And until that time I commanded no one with any new judgment from Thy presence, and in all wherein people differed they moved only in what pertained to the air.  BB00030

O My Name! All that was revealed in the Bayan concerning the mention of the Most Great Remembrance was revealed with utmost clarity. That which was made the cause of distinguishing the people and the degrees of recognition and the appearance of tests was the mention of Mustaghath, and now the meaning thereof hath been revealed from the Supreme Pen in the Clear Tablet - that which until now they have neither understood nor comprehended. The people are weak, and most have drunk the milk of vain imaginings from the breast of idle fancy.  BH00132

And likewise they argued that 'Seal of the Prophets' is God's word and is explicitly revealed in the Qur'an, and it is certain that God is truthful and His Prophet is truthful. Then, in objection to God and the Manifestation of His Self, they uttered these words, that this person's claim is false and devoid of merit, for he has spoken contrary to the Book of God and His traditions and the truthful Prophet, as it is in His book that Prophets have come from the beginning that has no beginning and will come until the end that has no end.  BH00004

Strange indeed that you should be confused about this matter when the Command is so clear and unambiguous! These servants have pondered and, by God's grace, have emerged from the thickets of interpretation into the spacious meadow of clear declaration. The interpreters are those who discard the manifest and exalted Truth, and with the axe of conjecture carve out idols of fancy, then bow down before their own handiwork in worship and submission, all the while counting themselves among the worshippers of Truth and those detached unto God.  BH00004

What can the blind behold of the Sun of divine power and the manifestations of the craft of the Eternal? And what can the deaf hear of the melodies of the nightingales of divine knowledge? The Tongue of God is speaking manifestly and evidently amidst the world, the Most Exalted Horizon is visible, the river of inner meanings is flowing from the Supreme Pen, and the Luminary of utterance is shining and gleaming from the highest horizon of contingent being. Nevertheless, all are heedless save a handful of the Letters of thy Lord's countenance.  BH00812

All were commanded not to be veiled at the time of His manifestation by the Bayan and what was revealed therein, inasmuch as not a single letter was revealed therein except concerning this transcendent, mighty, and beloved Cause. His purpose was none other than that ye should not cling to it in His days, nor adduce such proofs as were adduced by the people of the Furqan, and before them the people of the Gospel and the Psalms. For at the time of each Manifestation, every people clung to the words revealed aforetime, and thereby opposed God unknowingly.   BH01153

One day, before attaining maturity, this Wronged One entered a gathering where two individuals wearing enormous turbans were, from behind a curtain, describing to one of the ladies their own spiritual knowledge and stations, until one of them stated that we must determine whether Gabriel is higher or Qanbar, whether 'Abbas is higher or Salman. This Wronged One was bewildered. After a few minutes it was mentioned: "O Mulla, if Gabriel is the one referred to in 'The Faithful Spirit descended with it upon thy heart', then Master Qanbar was not even present there."   BH03407

Consider what was revealed in the Gospel concerning the darkening of the sun and the moon, and the falling of the stars, and the like thereof. Those who were guided by the lights of the Ancient Beauty on the day of the manifestation of that Most Glorious Light, although they saw the appearance of that Divine Word different from what they had been promised in the Divine Books concerning the appearance of such mentioned signs, nevertheless clung to the mention of these words and turned away from the Day-Star of the Divine Realm and the Sun of the heaven of holy eternity.  AB00018

It is quite evident that the people did not understand the glad tidings, or prophecies, referring to the Christ in the Bible, for in the Old Testament they found this verse--that the coming one will come as a sovereign and will conquer the east as well as the west. His rod will be of iron, He will promote the laws of the Old Testament, and during the time of his reign all the people, even the creatures and the birds, will live in a peaceful day. These people, finding these prophecies were not fulfilled in the time of Christ, nay rather (the reverse), reached to such a state that they even killed Him.   ABU0760

As for what you indicated that the new verses do not accord with the old words - yes, if you look at their outward meanings and neglect their inner significances, you will find them different and divergent. For the new utterance is the essence of exposition and consists of clear verses. If you wish to reconcile the new clear verses with the old allegorical words, they will not agree. But if you look with the eye of insight at the allegorical verses of the Qur'an and comprehend their interpretation, you will see that God's books and scrolls are in harmony and agreement throughout all ages and centuries.   AB00085

Would that the people of the world would, for a moment, purely for the sake of God, reflect upon that which hath been manifested and that which He hath foretold in the Books and Tablets, and would attain unto its recognition. O Beloved of my heart! By Thy life! Were they to observe and ponder upon that which hath outwardly appeared from the Dayspring of Revelation, or were they to hear it, they would assuredly perceive a matter transcending the kingdom of earth and heaven. Base desires, reprehensible deeds, envy, heedlessness, and love of position have deprived people of every kind from the true Water of Life.  BH03705

One melody from the melodies of the Dove of the Bayan regarding the criterion is mentioned specifically for those who seek the sanctuary of the All-Merciful, that they might attain to its recognition and become wholly detached from satanic manifestations, rending asunder the veils of idle fancies in such wise that the people of the Supreme Concourse hear the sound of their being rent [...] They rend asunder the veils of vain imaginings in such wise that the people of the Concourse on High hear the sound of their tearing, and witness them above the entire Concourse of the Bayan among those who have disbelieved and associated partners with God, fleeing from branch to branch that they might cast doubt and suspicion into the hearts of those whom the breezes of the All-Merciful have turned from the left of conjecture to the right of certitude.  BH00004

By God! Be fair and close the eye of tyranny. Were the people of the Furqan (Qur'an) to cry out that the Bab--may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him--declared "I am the Promised One of the Furqan, the Hour is come, and the great catastrophe hath appeared," saying "If this be the promised Qa'im, where then is His unsheathed sword? Where is His unfurled standard? Where are His assembled hosts? Where are the reins and spears? Where is His promotion of the resplendent Law and His propagation of the clear and manifest Path? Where is the soaring of the chosen ones and the noble ones? Where is their gathering in the Mother of Cities? Where is the Great Resurrection? Where is the Balance? Where is the Bridge? Where is the Reckoning? Where is the blazing Fire? Where is the joyous Paradise? Where is the Kawthar and the Salsabil? Where is the cup mixed with camphor and ginger? Where are the dark-eyed maidens, restraining their glances in pavilions? Where are the immortal youths like hidden pearls? Where are the stern and mighty angels? Where are the chains and fetters?" and "Where? Where? Where?"   AB00082

Great error may result from the misinterpretation of a single word or expression of the sacred books.  ABU0648


The Blessed Perfection wrote a Tablet in which He mentioned the Greatest Branch, Abdul Baha, favourably and on the next page in the same Tablet, mentioned the intrigues of Subi Ezel and condemned him. Mohammed Ali has taken that Tablet and separated the pages, and that section referring to Subi Ezel and wherein the name is omitted, but only the condemnation of his act is mentioned, he took the separated pages and pasted the edges carefully together and then gilded the edges so as to make the trick invisible.   ABU0340
The way of Christ was that of glad tidings, but the religious leaders transformed those glad tidings into hardship and burden. Those tidings were pure water, but the leaders, following their own desires and passions, mixed it with harmful elements.  AB12834
 
Beware, O people, lest ye pervert the words of God from their proper place. Bear witness to that which God hath witnessed, then be as brothers reclining upon couches face to face. Unite in such wise that no trace of discord may be detected among you. Through your unity will the Cause of God be made manifest throughout His creation, His tokens be established among His servants, and His light be proven throughout the worlds.  BH00004
