Courage and valor are attributes of the truthful ones and characteristics of the servants of the Threshold  AB11378

Man must possess the religion of God which is the source of all valour, moral and intellectual. If he has not this, he may have at least, the simple "natural religion” of humanity. But there are an increasing number of men and women who are devoid of either of these two necessary qualities and they always fail in the real test of life. Outwardly they boast of courage but inwardly they lack the backbone to stand the ordeal.  ABU3079

The ancients say that courage consists in steadfastness, and when two armies clash, whichever is more steadfast is more victorious - this is a known truth.   AB02565


O Rustam! Your namesake became renowned throughout the horizons for physical courage. You must become known throughout the world for spiritual valor and detachment.  AB09379

Man must possess the religion of God which is the source of all valour, moral and intellectual...Outwardly they boast of courage but inwardly they lack the backbone to stand the ordeal   ABU3079

For courage is not bloodshed and destruction of human foundations - that befits wild beasts. Rather, courage lies in victory over self and desire, and triumph over the armies of passion.   AB02729


When I leave this world I wish my heart be entirely assured and confident and know that the Blessed Perfection has such servants who will arise to serve His Cause with miraculous Faith and extraordinary courage.   ABU3432

His honor Hazbar is truly a courageous lion who breaks through the ranks of vain imaginings and counts as nothing the multitudes of the common people. Day by day may his spiritual valor, conscientious bravery, divine confirmations and heavenly success increase.  AB08638

The heedless ones are but a pack of rabbits. Like a lion in the arena of divine knowledge, let forth the roar of lions and display the might of those intoxicated with the wine of God's love. Make the claw of the love of God into a sword of steel, and with the talon of divine proof as a sharp-cutting dagger, rend asunder the vitals of ignorance and scatter the insistent self. This, O my dear child, is spiritual valor.  AB10927

