Adorn your souls with courtesy   BH11527

practice moderation and gentleness   AB06702

They must show tolerance and be benevolent   AB06169

"Speak with utmost patience and gentleness"  AB02408

"Walk thou in utmost dignity and composure."  BH05778

Train yourselves to be always [on] time no matter where you are. Be punctual.   ABU2939

They must deal with them with perfect dignity and honor.   ABU2745

O thou whom God hath educated and perfected in courtesy!   AB12163

A cheerful countenance lends consolation to the beholder.   ABU3633

Meet with His Excellency the Ambassador with utmost courtesy   AB03055

You must speak and write in such a manner as not to offend anyone.  ABU3237

Say: Beware lest ye enter anyone's house except with his permission  BH03725

Adorn your temples with the ornament of trustworthiness and courtesy  BH09100

Show utmost consideration to the American friends when they arrive in those parts  AB01358

The friends must show them utmost love, kindness, service and goodwill when they arrive   AB06412

deal with both friend and stranger with the utmost kindness, truthfulness and friendship   AB03212

We must adorn our temples with extreme politeness. We must not be rude to any human being.   ABU1005

Some respected persons have invited me and I have given my promise, and to break a promise is wrong  AB09672

treat the pilgrims with the utmost love and kindness so that they become grateful and happy with you  AB10395

A workman who had left his bag of tools in the hall was welcomed with smiling kindness by 'Abdu'l-Baha.  ABU3536

As much as you can, be a source of joy and delight and a manifestation of the mercy of the All-Merciful.   AB00957

Nevertheless, we must show compassion to people and deal with them gently, giving them no cause for complaint.  AB10884

Write to Anzali, Rasht, Qazvin and Tehran that the friends should show them the utmost consideration and respect.  AB08632

the friends must remain quiet and silent and, in accordance with the divine texts, act with the utmost spiritual courtesy   AB02789

The friends of God must, in every case, be the manifestation of perfection and be at the height of training and refinement.  AB02210

Whenever they see that a capability is created, they may speak with wisdom and deference and utter the words with dignity and kindness.  AB04213

Be good-natured and cheerful, sweet-scented and heart-attracting, and truthful in speech. These are among the requirements of kindliness.  AB09532

And if you desire to associate with the great and mighty ones, adorn yourself with knowledge and wisdom and with the refinements they possess.   BH10178

In any case, act in such a way that he too becomes satisfied with you. Then the expansiveness of your character will become evident and clear.   AB04417

If ye have a bad message or news for a certain person, show ye no haste in conveying it, and trouble not the heart of the concerned individual.  ABU2761

Always extend to Count Tolstoy loving and heartfelt greetings and treat him with the utmost courtesy, as we are commanded to behave in this way.  AB01317

Courtesy is a characteristic of man and is acceptable before God. Beseech ye God not to deprive His servants of this blessed and luminous adorning.   BH01422

Some time ago your missive arrived and bestowed its portion upon the eye, heart, ear and breast, each according to its capacity. God bless your honor!   BH04613

The story demonstrates the importance of courtesy and tact by showing how literal truth-telling without consideration for feelings violates social norms   ABU1286

Good conduct and sweet speech can influence even the hardest stone, and it is certain that thou hast carried out and will continue to carry out this matter.  AB05203

Is it possible for someone to arrive and not be treated with kindness? You yourself know that in all cases it is fitting to act with kindness, not unkindness.   BH00479

I hope that you may always be a sign of divine favors to wayfarers and that all peoples and religions may be utterly grateful and pleased with your good conduct  AB04959

Do not hurt anyone's feelings and do not utter an unkind word. If you observe human virtues and godly conduct in someone, praise them; otherwise maintain silence  AB01691

"And surely you will be confirmed in good conduct. In this case, no disagreement will remain between you and him. I am advising them not to be remiss in any way."  AB09055

Should anyone desire to speak, he must do it with the utmost courtesy and with perfect eloquence and fluency by the consent and permission of the people of the assembly.  AB07821

Certainly with courtesy, love and kindness the other party will listen and will not become preoccupied with formulating responses and creating arguments, but will acknowledge the point.  BHU0010

Say: Let truthfulness and courtesy be your adorning. Suffer not yourselves to be deprived of the robe of forbearance and justice, that the sweet savors of holiness may be wafted from your hearts upon all created things.   BH00846

If this is so, it is certain that that person will show you the utmost deference and good conduct and will pay your debt with perfect contentment, for he has good conduct. And surely you will be confirmed in good conduct.  AB09055

The perfumed letter from that ancient friend was in the utmost eloquence, fluency and brevity. A letter should be thus - few in words but rich in meaning, eloquent in meaning, fluent in expression, concise and beneficial   AB06101

"O, `Ali, assist your Lord by your behaviour and moral standards. This is worthy of those who cling to this Strong Rope. Adorn your bodies with the robe of courtesy, and your hearts with mention of Me, the Loving, the Newly-Revealed."  BH10656

Most great minister, most mighty and noble ambassador, may your prosperity endure... We hope that God may increase your excellency's life, prosperity, and glory at all times. I am most ashamed to have put your excellency to such trouble.  BH07042

Everyone who reached his guesthouse and came here and met him opened their tongue in praise, saying that that cultured soul has a sweet melody and an attractive manner with both friend and stranger, showing kindness to everyone and rendering service.   AB05684

As for the leader, whenever thou meetest him, show courtesy - neither aversion nor attachment, neither familiarity nor estrangement. For if thou seekest friendship, he will say thou art engaging in flattery, and if thou completely avoid him, he will say there is enmity.  AB01908

With that person Sayfu'd-Dawlih, if possible, proceed with the utmost patience and kindness, and never become agitated in conversation. Whatever you hear, answer with perfect mildness and pleasant words so that he will never become disturbed and never experience weariness.  AB11347

A man must ever be thoughtful of others and be polite and courteous toward his fellow-beings. One's sitting and rising, speech and conversation, social intercourse and communication should be based upon a firm foundation and be conducive to the glory of the world of humanity.  ABU2960

The people of Iran had no educator and reached maturity without training. Therefore their badge and garment have been and continue to be ignorance and discourtesy. Say: O people! The first ornament for the temple of man is courtesy. Hold fast unto it and be not of the heedless ones.  BH04772

It behooves ones like yourself to deal with all souls with kindness and consideration...Regarding deeds, give counsel with kindness as 'Abdu'l-Baha has written, not with force, intensity and harshness, for harshness and intensity never yield fruit but rather have the opposite effect.  AB01449

You Occidentals say that people are so fundamentally different as to race, origin, heredity, cultural level, life-style, era, domicile, sex, that in this is already to be found the historic, scientific reason for the multiplicity of religious needs. O my daughter, these are pretexts!   ABU1484

Most esteemed one! His Honor, the respected Khalil Bey has now arrived. We await your august presence, together with Mahmud Bey Effendi and His Honor the Judge, to ascend to the hotel above. It would be most excellent if you could grace us with your presence at your earliest convenience.  AB12090

As for the rest, you must strongly urge his honor Mirza Muhammad Hadi - may God illumine his countenance - to remain preserved from the attributes and tongue of those people, meaning his speech should remain preserved from the accent [of Beg] and others, and in writing and knowledge they should certainly strive.  BH02211

O brother, be honey and sugar sweet, and sweeten dispositions to the extent possible. Forbearance is necessary, lest any dust settle on a heart or any soul be hurt. Then all effort would be fruitless. If counsel is given with perfect gentleness and kindness and utmost humility and goodwill, it will have a mighty effect.   AB01050

O Amin of the Blessed Beauty! Your letter of the 15th of Dhi'l-Qa'dah [1337] was received. A brief reply is being written. Abdul-Baha is aware of all matters, but there is a verse in the Quran: If thou hadst been severe and harsh-hearted, they would have broken away from about thee. This is in consideration of the supreme kindness.  AB11803

Make the beauty of what ye wear commensurate with the finest ye can afford, for this is of God's grace and mercy toward you if ye are able; and if not, grieve not in the least, for verily after your death ye shall behold in Paradise what ye have done. Make not your garments too short nor too long, but observe moderation therein according to what ye love best to wear.  BB00003

The children must be carefully trained to be most courteous and well-behaved. They must be constantly encouraged and made eager to gain all the summits of human accomplishment, so that from their earliest years they will be taught to have high aims, to conduct themselves well, to be chaste, pure, and undefiled, and will learn to be of powerful resolve and firm of purpose in all things.  AB00824

And regarding what you had written about the tea that was sent causing embarrassment to that beloved one - that honor should never have any thought about such matters that might cause the slightest sadness to the heart, for it has been and is very clear that that honor exercises the utmost care and consideration in all related matters, and desires that whatever is most exalted and glorious of everything should be present, and none who looks with the eye of justice can deny this.   BH02476

As soon as the Bedouin Arab hears the clatter of the hoofs of a horse he comes out of his tent, thinking that a guest is in sight. Then he welcomes him with a cheerful countenance, brings out the only carpet he has, spreads it under his feet, orders his wife to prepare coffee and his servant to kill a mutton. Then he goes around and invites all his Bedouin friends to dinner, giving them the good news that he is honoured in thus having a guest in his tent. Their conception of hospitality is so unique that if the guest either by accident or by purpose kills the son of host and takes refuge under the latter's tent he will be protected and his crime forgiven.  ABU1495

Strip not yourselves of the robe of propriety [adab] and fairness [insaf], and speak not that which ye have been forbidden in the Tablets of your Lord, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting. He who is deprived of propriety is naked, though he be clothed in all the silk of the earth. This hath been sent down in truth in preserved Tablets of glory. He who hath no propriety [adab] hath no faith [iman], as testifieth that which was revealed in the Bayan, if ye would but witness it.  BH00004
