The Master encourages artistic study saying: "If your daughter loves art, she can devote her time to it and surely she will succeed. Painting is a lovely art and most refined."  ABU2928

If the heart of a gardener is not an artistic garden in itself he will not be able to produce a single flower. His outward garden must be a representative of his inner garden.   ABU2791

Therefore I desire thee to be God's artisan and seek to be the Creator's innovator, that whatsoever is required by this luminous reality may become manifest in the arena of existence.  AB09263

The portraits drawn on the canvas of the world have become antiquated. May you become inspired to paint new, life-like portraits on the frame of the universe with the delicate brush of the spirit!   ABU1468

The poetry which thou hadst composed in English was eloquent and articulate. My hope is that day by day thy natural talent may advance and that the most wondrous meanings may flow from thy creative faculty.  AB08650

Through the grace and bounty of the Blessed Beauty, there is firm hope that the talent of that attracted one of the Heavenly Beloved will receive clear inspiration, so that she may scatter hidden jewels of meanings in praise of the All-Merciful Lord upon spiritual ears.  AB11727

When this light shines through the mind of a musician, it manifests itself in beautiful harmonies. Again, shining through the mind of a poet, it is seen in fine poetry and poetic prose. When the Light of the Sun of Truth inspires the mind of a painter, he produces marvellous pictures.   ABU3051

Now if that one intoxicated with the divine cup seeks complete proficiency in the art of drawing and illustration, he must strive until the image of the Concourse on High is reflected in the mirror of the world below, and those celestial forms draw back the veil in every realm of the material world.  AB07288

Create, create, my friends. Although the attribute of creation, primarily belongs to God; he has bestowed this marvelous gift on man. Hence 'Creation' in its secondary consideration belongs to man. not that man is enabled to 'create' the primal elements that cannot be decomposed into simple substances but through the aggregation of these elements he will build a new compound and skillfully adapts it to his own use and that of the public.  ABU0389
