Praise be unto Him Who, through His effulgent grace, created the Primal Origin of existence and made It the centre of the seat of glory. From this human Temple, He hath caused to emanate all the tribes, kindreds, and nations of the earth. Whereupon He created all things—whether plants or animals or intelligent and rational beings—in joyous, connected pairs, in order that they might flourish, multiply, and worship their Lord with radiant devotion, treading the path of guidance with heart and soul.  AB12841
 
Praise be to God Who originated creation without any prior origination, Who invented invention without any prior invention, then placed destiny as an isthmus between them for its geometry.  BB00154

Praise be to God Who hath made the line, formed from the Primal Point manifest in the letter B, the ornament of His Name, the All-Subduing above all names. Then He divided it in two through the mystery concealed between the two commands, and joined the one with the other through the wisdom hidden beneath the veil of destiny.  BH11761

All these majestic scenes of nature, in reality, prove the greatness of the Creator and the antiquity of the world. This globe is indeed millions of years old, and its Creator has had no beginning and will have no ending. He has been, is and will be the Alpha and Omega. A creator presupposes creatures, just as light presupposes the existence of the sun.   ABU0723

brought creation from nothingness into being   BH06125

Thou didst create mankind from a handful of clay  BH10248

through a single word hath fashioned the heavens and the earth  BH09598

He has created all contingent beings from nothing by His power   BH05265

since He is the Creator, without doubt He has always had a creation   ABU3569

All things were created by His command and by His word "Be!" and it is   BH06624

adorned the world from sheer nothingness with the ornament of existence   BH04707

God Who created him and created all things, and all unto Him shall return   BH05054

He is the One Who originates all things through His command Be, and it is!  BB00004

The world was brought from nothingness into being for the knowledge of God.  BH11631

Through one emanation of this Love, the world of existence has come into being.   ABU3084

Every Universal Dispensation has two great events occur: collection and separation.  ABU1143

He createth what He willeth by His command, and verily He is the Guardian over all things.  BB00004

I testify that Thou hast created all creation as a manifestation of Thy bounty and bestowal   BH08950

God, the Exalted Truth, brought creation into being from nothingness specifically for this Day   BH09817

He created all things for the knowledge of His Own Self, the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate.   BH01079

Then when the ocean of Thy giving surged forth, Thou didst create creation through Thy bounty and grace   BH06416

Who through His most exalted Word created earth and heaven and brought them forth from nothingness into being  BH05362

Praise be to God Who created the heavens and the earth and what lies between them by His command "Be!" and it is.   BB00576

But God hath created their hearts from the light of lights, and they are drawn to God, the One, the All-Compelling.  BB00286

God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. He originateth creation, then causeth it to return. Will ye not see?  BB00004

Dost thou disbelieve in Him Who created thee from dust, then from a sperm-drop, then fashioned thee into a man with limits?  BB00002

Praise be to God Who has raised up the heavens by His command and established the throne upon the waters by His revelation.   BB00279

There was no cause for Thy creation save Thy bringing it into being, and no reason for Thy invention save Thy origination of it.  BH11123

Thou art He Who bestowed the ornament of existence upon absolute nothingness, and conferred the robe of being upon sheer non-existence.   BH04102

When thou dost contemplate creation, thou wilt observe the signs of ancient wisdom and power. God hath perfected the creation of all things.  AB09263

Thou didst create the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them in truth, and didst favor them that know Thee with Thy knowledge.   BB00295

through a single drop from the ocean of His bounty brought the world of existence into being, and adorned absolute nothingness with the ornament of being  BH03093

He is the One Who calleth into being whatsoever He willeth through His command "Be" and it is. This is God, your Lord. His is the creation and the command.   BB00454

The whole world hath been created for the recognition of the Ancient Lord in this Most Great Announcement, and hath been brought from nothingness into being.  BH07990

Thou hast created all things by Thy power and ordained them by Thine ordinance, and Thou hast formed all things by Thy will and fashioned them by Thy forming.   BB00277

Verily God created Joseph and his brethren in the realms of holiness from a sprinkling upon a name from the drop of creation, from that water brought into being.  BB00002

He hath created all things out of nothing by His Will, and brought forth all beings out of non-existence by His Word. Blessed, then, be God, the Best of creators!  BH11700

Our Lord is the Lord of the heavens and the Lord of the earth, the Lord of all worlds. He it is Who giveth life and causeth death, and unto Him is the journeying.  BB00004

This universe is not created through the fortuitous concurrences of atoms; it is created by a great law which decrees that the tree bring forth certain definite fruit.  ABU2415

Praised be to He Who hath brought into being a new creation and given life to the lifeless! Praised be to He Who hath gathered His creatures and scattered them abroad!   AB01880

Creation is good. 'And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, 'Let there be light; and the was light. And God saw the light that it was good'.   ABU2786

The likeness of creation before God is as the likeness of Our Command: when We will a thing, We but say unto it Be! and it is - thus recorded in God's Praised Book round about the Fire.  BB00002

His is the creation and the command, in the past and in the future. He giveth life and causeth death, then causeth death and giveth life, and verily He is the Ever-Living Who dieth not.  BB00085

What is intended by the creation of heaven and earth in six days is a spiritual creation and a divine day, as prior to the creation of this heaven and earth there were no days and nights.  ABU2591

This world is the plane of creation and disintegration. The process never stops: On one side it creates new people, and on the other it destroys what she has created. The world will not grow tired.   ABU1534

Do we not see the signs and traces of God -- the Unknowable, primal Cause -- scattered all about us? Are not these "effects" sufficient reason to demonstrate to us that there is behind all of them, a Creative Cause?   ABU2507

When the waves of the ocean of bounty appeared, He brought forth creation from sheer nothingness through His most exalted Word, that all might be adorned, according to their capacity, with the knowledge of His sacred Being.   BH01175

Praise and glorification befit the Peerless Object of all desire Who, by one exalted Word, brought all things from utter nothingness into the realm of existence and adorned that which was non-existent with the ornament of being.   BH01334

Verily Thou art the Creator of all things and their Ordainer, the Provider of all things and their Fashioner, the One Who causeth all things to die and bringeth them into being, Who giveth life to all things and taketh account of them.   BB00302

"The divine sovereignty is an ancient sovereignty, not an accidental sovereignty. If we imagine this world of existence has a beginning, we can say the divine sovereignty is accidental -- that is, there was a time when it did not exist."  ABU0403

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Thou art the Creator of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them by Thy command, not through any means, and Thou art the Fashioner of all things by Thy command, not through any instrument.   BB00261

Splendor belongs to God alone, who ordains the creation of all things by His command Be and it is. Splendor and beauty belong to God alone, the creator of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lies between them, the Lord of the worlds.  BB00563

In the creation and the preservation of the world, God is the sole Cause, all that happens in the world derives from Him, originally and continuously. Nature did not originate of itself - by accident, - but it sprang from a divine act of creation.  ABU0226

Say: God is the Creator of all things, and We, verily, are witness unto this. Say: God is the Provider of all things, and We, verily, are cognizant of this. Say: God is the Quickener of all things, their Maker, the Sovereign over all things and their Creator   BH02010

And if a holy fire, sanctified from the divine Tree, free from flame and smoke, appears in a breast, no other cause for existence would be considered. Thus has the time of causation been completed, if you would but witness the Causer in the garment of holiness.  BH11853

Truth has always existed and creation has always existed - there is no beginning for Truth and no beginning for creation. This refers to physical bodies in the contingent world. However, the beginning mentioned in the Holy Books refers to the beginning of Manifestation  AB03015

He hath brought creation into being from nothing, caused existence to exist from naught, made things from no-thing, created innovation without basis, and originated origination without means - all as a token of His wisdom's handiwork and as proof of His Lordship's craft.  BB00005

The theologians ask in response: "Is this earth eternal or was it created?" The materialists reply that according to science and complete discoveries, it is proven that it was created - initially a fiery globe that gradually cooled and formed a crust. Then above the crust, plants came into being, then animals appeared, then humans came to exist. AB00920

As for what was asked about creation, know that creation hath ever been and shall ever be. No beginning can be imagined for its beginning, nor any end for its ending. The name Creator itself requireth a creation, just as the name Lord necessitates that which is lorded over.  BH00060

The beginning of origination is the first creation which God created for Himself by Himself without any mention of aught else accompanying it. And all existence, both invisible and visible, is evidence of the origination of the greater world due to its limitations and variations.   BB00064

Thou art the Everlasting Sovereign and the Eternal, Self-Subsisting Lord Who hath originated creation through Thy Will, an origination without previous example in the realm of possibility. Then Thou hast established all things in the path of Command and the manifestations of the Seal   BB00156

Through His absolute Will which is the station of the Most Exalted Word, brought the world from nothingness into being, made absolute existence manifest from pure non-existence, and through two letters brought forth the means of heaven and earth from annihilation to the realm of immortality  BH02205

Through one line He created the realm of divinity and through another the kingdom of might, until the four worlds were completed. The first letter that told of these was indeed the standing 'Alif', and when it revolved around itself, the letter 'Kaf' appeared, from which He created the greater world and then the lesser world.  BH04621

As to the indication from the paths of the limits, know thou that God hath created all things from the water of two seas: one the water of the cause, and the second the water of the caused. He hath merged these two seas in this world that they might meet through the mystery of the two choices from the water of these two seas.   BB00249

Thereafter, Thou didst move the thread of pre-existence through the garments of nothingness, and breathed the spirit of life into the essence of sublime glory, that thereby the countenance of Thy names might be revealed in the kingdom of Thy attributes, and the beauty of Thy face might be made manifest in the realm of Thy grandeur.   BH01587

Verily We created him from camphor water, sprinkled upon him from the Spring of Manifestation, in that Gate according to the decree of the Book, by the command of the Gate, accomplished. Verily We ordained the human form from water - water from two waters between two souls - which existed by the wondrous permission of God, the All-Wise.  BB00002

Praise be to God Who hath raised up the heavens by His command and established the throne upon the waters by His revelation. Then He split the atmospheres and rent the air and tore asunder the veils through the word Be! He raised up the leaves with trees, and the earth with mountains, and the seas with rains, and the springs with their like.  BB00279

Thou didst create all things from nothing by Thy power, and provided for all in the kingdom of command and creation by Thy will. Thou didst cause to die whom Thou didst will among Thy creation by Thy might, and didst give life to whom Thou didst desire among the dwellers of Thy heaven and earth by Thy mercy and the sublimity of Thy grandeur.   BB00259

Praise be unto Him Who brought forth the first creation with brilliant signs, radiant lights, rising stars, shining suns, luminous moons, rain-laden clouds, surging seas, firm mountains, resplendent realities, infinite forms, countless beings, and substances endowed with power and capacity - these are the brilliant signs of the Lord of earth and heaven.  AB08392

Verily, Thou art the Creator of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them by Thy command, not from anything. And verily Thou art the Fashioner of all things by Thy command, not from anything. Thou hast ever been, existing before all things, and Thou wilt ever be, existing after all things, and Thou art at all times the Maker of all things.  BB00257

Thou art He Who hath brought all things into being from nothing, and hath established all things without anything, and hath ordained the stations of all things by Thy power, and hath made known to all things the dawning-places of Thy power, and hast caused all things to witness the settings of Thine eternity, so that nothing might be veiled from Thy countenance.  BB00028

Question: What is the nature of the connection between God and His creation, between the Absolute and Inaccessible One and all other beings? Answer: The connection between God and His creation is that of the originator and the originated, of the sun and the dark bodies of the universe, of the craftsman and his handiwork.  AB00876

When this luminous reality appeared in the realm of existence with all its stations, distinctions, determinations, characteristics, mysteries and phases, that all-encompassing Word was explained and interpreted. The world of creation became illumined with the realities of existence, the ordinances and manifestations of the universal truth and all-encompassing identity.  AB05275

When we look upon all forms of phenomena we observe that they are the results of composition. For example, certain single atoms are brought together through the inherent law of elective affinity existing between these various particles, the result of which is the human being. A number of primordial atoms have gone into the makeup of a plant, the result of which is the flower.   ABU0591

It is therefore evident that the original matter, which is like unto the embryo, initially took the form of composed and combined elements, and that composition gradually grew and developed over a myriad ages and centuries, passing from one shape and form to another, until through the consummate wisdom of God it appeared with such completeness, order, arrangement and soundness.   AB00077

Thou hast raised up the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them from nothing by Thy command. Then Thou didst create the creation of all things by Thy power, and didst nourish the creation of all things by Thy will, and didst cause all things to die through the sovereignty of Thy oneness, and didst give life to all things through the manifestations of Thy eternality.   BB00253

Through a wave from the ocean of His endless mercy, He hath adorned all created things with the ornament of existence, and through a breath from His peerless paradise, He hath honored all beings with the robe of His holy grace. Through an overflowing drop from the deep of the sea of His Sovereign Will, He hath brought infinite creation out of utter nothingness into the realm of being.   BH00512

Through His all-embracing mercy, He brought all created things from the realm of nothingness into existence, and from the treasury of the unseen into the visible world. He endowed each reality among created things with excellences and perfections befitting its station and realm, such that these characteristics, excellences and perfections would become its eternal felicity and true paradise.  AB00111

For instance, it is said in the Old Testament that certain things were created in the first day. The narrative shows that at that time the sun was not yet created. How could we conceive of a day if no sun existed in the heavens? For the day depends upon the light of the sun. Inasmuch as the sun had not been made, how could the first day be realized? Therefore, these statements have significances other than literal.  ABU0033

Glorified be He! There is none other God but Him. How wondrous is His handiwork, how magnificent His creation! He hath brought forth from utter nothingness the vast expanse of being, and with His hand of power hath given existence to the merest atom from naught, endowing it with speech. Through His Own effulgences He hath transformed absolute nothingness into pure existence, bestowing absolute being through His grace.  BH00648

Through the manifestation of His power and sovereignty, He brought into being all contingent things from nothingness through His Will and its expressions so that all atoms might be illumined by the radiance of His creative light, and become eager to behold the raiment of His Beauty's countenance, and become fearful of His justice, and see naught in anything save His manifestation, which is more evident than all things.   BB00647

God did not create the world out of nothing. The early Christian church teachers have spoken in incorrect interpretation of the bible, of a creatio ex nihilo, that is creation of out nothing. That is an error. Moses teaches: In the beginning, God created heaven and earth. And the earth was deserted and empty, and it was dark in the depth and the spirit of God floated above the water. And God said: there shall be light! and there was light, etc.  ABU0017

My God, my God! Through Thy power Thou hast brought into being a new creation, and created and fashioned and brought forth an unerring age. Thou hast created the heaven and adorned it with the lights of guidance, and prepared a luminous white earth and blessed spot, and embellished it with dense gardens. Thou hast made the seas to surge and the rivers to flow and the clouds to rain, and hast purified the meadows and made the herbs and sweet-basils to grow until there appeared of every fruit two kinds.  AB00171

I have created what I have created in such wise that none besides Me can comprehend it. How then can ye hope to understand the extent of the worlds set forth in the Book until the time of Adam? Until this moment, what ye would enumerate hath been ordained. Creation reached its culmination at the appearance of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, and We sent down the Furqan (Qur'an) unto him that ye might be assured of the signs of God, that the fruits of your faith might be manifested on the Day of My Manifestation.  BB00129

Furthermore, it is a philosophical principle that the existence of phenomena implies composition and that mortality, or nonexistence, is equivalent to decomposition... Then what have we left as a form of composition? It is the voluntary form of composition, which means that composition is effected through a superior will, that there is will expressed in this motive or action. It is thus proved that the existence of phenomena is effected through the eternal Will, the Will of the Living, Eternal and Self-subsistent.   ABU0102

Praise be to God Who created water through His utterance manifest in the Kingdom of immortality. Then He gazed upon it, and it trembled within itself, and a portion of it was frozen. Thereupon the dusty earth appeared through His decree established in the realm of origination. When they separated and divided, the Tongue of Grandeur spoke another word. Then that water, brought into being through the Will manifest in creation through the essence of possibility, moved upon that earth brought into existence through the will of the All-Merciful.   BH00843

He honored and established the darkness of the existence of created things through the encounter with absolute existence, that all beings, both seen and unseen, might not be deprived of His all-encompassing mercy nor be excluded from the ascendancy of the throne of justice. In every existence He ordained a symbol, and from every symbol He established a command, that the pure essences of the abstract realities of all created things might move with diverse motions, so that His celestial dominion might become manifest and evident in the realm of earthly existence.   BH00951

The truth is that the Cause is the Handiwork of God which He created by Himself for Himself and made it the cause of all His creation, as the Imam indicated: The cause of things is His handiwork, and it hath no cause. This is attested by all the horizonal and personal signs and the verses of the Book, for the One that proceedeth from the One is the One that is known through duality, which necessitates the existence of trinity - and this is clearly false by proof of separation. Nothing can proceed from the One, which is the essence of origination, except the First Mention.  BB00064

Verily, Thou hast created the universe and fashioned the human soul. Thou hast brought forth the entire creation and hast raised up all beings by the influence of Thine all-penetrating might. The Sun of the world of existence rose, with manifest splendour, above the horizon of the All-Praised. Ages passed and cycles rolled away, until the heaven of knowledge was again raised up and the earth of certitude was outstretched unto all, the ocean of bounty surged and the Luminary of the world shone resplendent, the stars of the world of creation gleamed brightly, the breeze of the All-Merciful wafted, and the full and brimming clouds of Thy grace and generosity rained down.   AB00121

And when We desired to manifest the Cause in the kingdom of creation, We took a handful of clay in the grasp of Our power, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Wise. Then We kneaded it with the waters of holiness and breathed into it a spirit from the spirits We had created in the heaven of eternity, and We fashioned it according to a temple from among the temples of holiness, and We named it Adam in the heaven of names  BH00227

Praise be to God Who created water from His utterance manifest in the Kingdom of immortality. Then He gazed upon it and it trembled within itself, and a portion of it froze. Thus did the dusty earth appear through His decree, established in the realm of origination. When they separated and divided, the Tongue of Grandeur spoke another word. Then that water, brought forth by the Will manifest in contingent being through the essence of possibility, moved upon that earth created by the will of the All-Merciful. And there arose from them both a subtle, spiritual, luminous heat by its power to the highest station, that it might attain that station wherein speaks the tongue of its Most Glorious Lord. When it reached the ultimate of its station, it paused in that most exalted station which is mentioned in creation as the highest sphere. Then the water mixed partially with the earth and another heat arose from them both, but due to its weakness it did not reach the first and paused in another station which is mentioned as the second sphere. And likewise did heat arise from them again and again until the stations mentioned as the spheres were completed. Then the Tongue of Grandeur spoke another word and the stations and spheres revolved, and from the intensity of revolution a light shone forth and formed a dome over the face of heaven. Then brilliant stars and gleaming planets appeared.  BH01184

All the saplings of the world have appeared from one Tree, and all the drops from one Ocean, and all beings owe their existence to one Being.  BH11459

This is God, your Lord, and unto Him shall ye return. Is there any doubt concerning God? He hath created you and all things. The Lord of all worlds is He.   BB00622

