
The principle of exclusiveness poisons even today the Western civilized states.   ABU3038

the people of Paris and most Europeans believe that man is for work, not work for man.   ABU1373

The Americans are a satiated people who hunger -- this in contrast to the Persians, who in their state of hunger and privation believe themselves to be satiated and without need.  ABU3671

"I find England awake; there is spiritual life here. But your poor are so very poor! This should not be. On the one hand you have wealth, and great luxury; on the other hand men and women are living in the extremities of hunger and want. This great contrast of life is one of the blots on the civilization of this enlightened age.  ABU2299

The people of America have a great capacity for the acquisition of spiritual qualities but they are immersed in material affairs. They are like machines which move uncontrollably; they move but are devoid of spirit.   ABU2138

"The fruit was brought from California to New York and kept in the hands of a few, and sold at high prices; and rather than give it to the poor or sell it for lower price, it was thrown into the sea. The poor would see it and long for it. What greater cruelty than this! Everything is monopoly in America except the water and air."  ABU0680

In the first place, people were very negligent. Especially in Paris no one would mention the name of God. I used to speak about God to many people and they would ask me to take another topic. It had reached to such a state, but now they realize and are better than before. The hearts have become a little more tender.  ABU0155

unlike people in some European countries, they are not wholly devoid of spiritual susceptibilities   ABU3159

not like Western women who go out with uncovered heads, with head and neck and half their arms exposed.  ABU1837

Europe is steeped in a sea of materialism. People are either agnostics or full of religious superstitions.  ABU3039

Soon you will see that even the civilization of Europeans will lead to worldwide war and end in revolution and chaos   ABU1660

When people of the West become wealthy, they begin to collect antique objects in order to render a service to the world of art.  ABU2216

Then the aforementioned person submitted that the people of Europe completely deny the promises of the Prophets and spiritual matters.  ABU2043

now the East must benefit from the material civilization of the West and the West must benefit from the divine civilization of the East   ABU3322

In every quarter they have elaborate buildings for their own pleasure and entertainment, yet they leave the poor in such a state of hardship and melancholy   ABU3000

However, the modern thoughts of some European countries involve compulsion rather than free choice, and this destroys the foundation and causes chaos in all lands.  AB00582

Our necessary wants were originally very few but with the increasing tide of modern civilization, our ancestors and fathers have added to our loads of superficial obligations.   ABU1397

The Master deplored these radical measures and said if such is the case the future of the French Republic is frought with great danger. It cannot stand on such atheistic foundation.  ABU3367

Throughout all of Europe, a meeting similar to this, with such depth of love and spirituality, is never seen. Even among the same family members, such affection is not experienced.   ABU2319

Europe is submerged in the ocean of materialism; its inhabitants are even as cows that have busied themselves with grazing in the pasture. They can see nothing at all, for their gaze is ever cast down.  ABU3706

People are not thinking of God. All their attention is turned toward matter and nature. Like unto the cows they graze in the meadow, which is overgrown with grass. They can see nothing beyond their noses.  ABU2453

Paris is like a very large, clean stable where many millions of horses are well-fed, well-kept and well-trained; but you do not expect to find spirituality, the Knowledge of God, the Love of God in a stable.   ABU3235

other Iranian students in foreign countries gain nothing except confused thoughts and base desires. They do not apply themselves to their studies but are always occupied with combining that which is meaningless.   AB03249

The deeds which are perpetrated by the present civilized, Christian nations of Europe are opposite to the commandments of Christ. He shuns their association and shudders at the very thought of their foul actions.   ABU0426

The people of Paris are of two kinds, first the followers of the so-called religion; second the free-thinkers. The former follows blindly the priests; the latter does not like to hear the word of religion mentioned  ABU2438

We are indeed the philosophers and the wise men of the age; we are the professors of universities and we have searched the whole laboratory of nature and have found nothing of what you call God and spiritual things.   ABU0116

Now having arrived I find that the inhabitants of this city are steeped deeper in the darkness of materialism. Every mention is on their lips except the mention of God. They entertain every thought except the thought of the Kingdom of God.  ABU2381

It can be observed that the people of the West cling to the most trivial things which in truth yield no fruit, to such an extent that thousands upon thousands have sacrificed and continue to sacrifice their lives for their manifestation and advancement.  BH02699

Now Europe in reality is in the utmost beauty and adornment. Material civilization has advanced greatly. It is a body in the utmost of comeliness, but regrettable it is that it is not animated by the spirit. How pitiful that it has not the heavenly illumination!   ABU1673

"Here we do not have much talking, but there (in America) they speak so much that nobody can follow what they say. Every place has its special customs. Every nation likes its own ways. At Christian weddings they smoke cigars and the room becomes filled with smoke."  ABU0697

Now, in which European country can a similar civilization be found? Nevertheless, the Europeans consider these people as animals and barbarians, whereas today, in truth, in none of the [so-called] civilized countries of the world can a similar civilization be seen.   ABU0887

In every land if they seek reform, they resort to corruption, and if they seek remedy, they pursue pain. They raise the banner of freedom yet commit injustice. They seek destruction while claiming to establish foundations. This harm is present while benefit is absent.   AB04718

Materially you are very well off, but you are in need of what I would term "divine" civilization -- that which is concerned with morality and ethics, because material civilization is concerned only with bodies, or matter, but divine civilization has to do with morality.   ABU0365

I do not feel happy in Paris. I do not know whether it is its depressing atmosphere or the effect of the indifference of the people in spiritual things. As I look upon these crowds and these buildings my heart is compressed. I wish to leave this city as soon as possible.   ABU3074

How complex is the life of the present age and how much more complex we are making it daily! The needs of humanity seem never to come to an end. The more men accumulate the more they want...contrary to the city people who are always haunted by the nightmare of livelihood.  ABU1920

Today all the nations of earth are sullied by the vices of the satanic realm, and are devoid of the virtues of the divine world. All are bloodthirsty and sharp of claw, are unjust and act precipitously... This is the result of the "civilization" of the peoples and nations.  AB00341

To the Occidental his God is - if he even acknowledges a God above him - a metaphysical Being in a remote, strange and nebulous beyond, to Whom one pays homage on Feasts and Holy Days, and Who does not count in every-day life, in commerce and politics, in general behaviour.  ABU0429

Some Parsis have become enamored with Western ways and manners, not knowing that Western morality has become greatly corrupted. The proof of this is this terrible, relentless war the like of which hath never occurred in any age - a conclusive evidence of moral degradation.   AB00138

Especially in these countries which are exceedingly prosperous - in truth it is like a beehive. All are immersed in materialism. Indeed the difference between these souls and the inhabitants of central Africa is that these are civilized animals while those are savage animals.  ABU2574

though we saw the people of the East had very few material comforts, yet their happiness and peace was very great, and they had no cares... whereas the reverse in the case is true with the Western Nations, - the more they have of comfort and riches, the more they need and want   ABU1287

These people are parts of their machinery. Just as the machinery are constantly working in a factory automatically without knowing why or wherefore, so these people are working. The machinery is oiled once in a day to run smoothly. These Westerners are oiled three times a day.   ABU0173

material civilization creates dynamite and Krupp cannons, increases instruments of war, and advances both good and evil. All this bloodshed and these instruments of war and battle are results of material civilization... from this material civilization, just as good advanced, evil also advanced   ABU1246

"Paris is like unto a green meadow, the people are like unto the sheep, they graze in this meadow, they drink of the flowing streams. The philosophers cow-like, graze with the rest. They never raise their heads to see whether there is any heaven or any stars. They are submerged in the Sea of materialism."   ABU3192

The Persian students spent their time in profitless pursuits in London and Paris! Not only the Europeans look down upon them as members of an inferior race and half-civilized but they (the students) confirm them in this opinion by indulging in questionable pleasures and vices of the European lower society.   ABU3095

Indeed how much superstitions, how much hatred, how much animosity exist amongst the religionists and the nations! Ignorance and lack of intelligence degrade mankind lower than the brute! The Pseudo-teachers of religions beguile these unsuspecting girls by unreal pleasant pictures of solitude and retirement.  ABU0496

By your life, this helpless man has not understood the purpose of the freedom of which the people of Europe speak. He should come into My presence that I may teach him and acquaint him with what they say. He has heard a statement and followed it without comprehending its reality and the intent of its speaker.  BH01770

I have pondered over the condition of the masses of the people of Europe. They are like machines that work day and night unconscious of their motive power. They seem to be divided into two classes. The religionists are submerged in superstitions and prejudices, and those who are not religious are materialists.  ABU0574

If graduates of scientific institutions achieve a deed, it is prompted by interested motives such as attainment to fame and renown or some other material and personal interest. But the beloved of GOD have no desire or intention save that of the good pleasure of the Lord, the Divine Will; that only do they seek.  ABU1270

I see the people of Paris like bees and ants, coming and going in swarms, moving and stirring like waves, extremely busy - but if you ask what they are doing and why they are moving about, they are completely unaware of their origin and end, and seek no perfection beyond eating, sleeping and immersion in desires.   ABU2975

Today I called at the hotel Nassar and met a number of Christian gentlemen who boasted of the perfection of European civilization and the sagacity of their statesmen in being capable to solve the intricacies of every problems through their intellectual powers...But all their very best treatments are temporary and palliatives.  ABU0159

Certainly, the women teachers from Europe give instruction in language and scripts, and housekeeping, and embroidery and sewing; but their pupils' character is completely altered, to such a point that the girls no longer care for their mothers, their disposition is spoiled, they misbehave, they become self-satisfied and proud.   AB02464

Western nations have perfected the machinery of natural civilization yet they are far left behind in divine civilization. My object in taking that long journey through the West was to awaken them out of this sleep; that they may not grovel all the time in the world of matter and that they may not only think of eating and drinking.   ABU2251

"Germany and France are one country, but the division is made by an imaginary boundary line. These two parts of one Continent have become differentiated or separated; one is known as Germany and one as France, and with the greatest enmity have they arisen against one another, whereas, they belong to the same Fatherland and to the same race."  ABU0803

The reformers and civilized people of the world who outwardly claim peace have brought the world's affairs to where they have afflicted the world with corruption and great danger...It is very strange that each of these civilized ones who claim love for humanity and love for country, all of it is for displaying their own personality and fame.   ABU0548

"Fie upon your town and your civilization and your snobbish manners! I hate them! I cannot bear to look at them! They are all cheap tricks sanctioned by your so-called society. You come abroad to display your crafty etiquette of mock modesty and respectability, while in reality you are physically and morally corrupt, afflicted with loathsome diseases."   ABU1106

And today if one were to ask those same civilized people and European intellectuals, from whom such objections have spread to the Eastern peoples: "If in this time, which is the age of civilization, you were to find in your own country or near your homeland such savage tribes and gross aggressions, how would you deal with them?" - what would they answer?  ABU1441

When educated people see the priests taking bread and wine in their hands, blowing a few breaths over them and saying that the bread and wine are now changed into the flesh and blood of Christ, or hear them saying that by making a confession before a priest their sins are pardoned, they will begin to despair of their religion and become totally irreligious.  ABU2993

Europe is submerged in materialism. People are not thinking of God. All their attention is turned toward matter and nature. Like unto the cows they graze in the meadow, which is overgrown with grass. They can see nothing beyond their noses. America is much better. People in that country are investigating the Reality. They are more susceptible to spiritual life.  ABU2453

How dead to all spiritual emotions are the people of Paris! The inhabitants of this city are engrossed in the whirlpool of pleasure and self-gratification. When I look upon Paris it seems to me it is like unto a corpse on which creep thousands of worms. These worms climb up and down through the dead, putrid corpse sucking its blood and pleased with its flesh. They do nothing else.  ABU2733

Is the materialistic philosophy of this Europe, so much praised by contemporary agnostics and atheists, a philosophy to be admired? Are these people wooers of the spirit? Nay, they have drowned that capacity and are out of touch with the kingdom of reality. Is this an enviable goal to which humanity may aspire? Is this a system of philosophy through which people may become glorified?  ABU2415

I see the people like bees or ants, coming and going by troops, surging past like waves, continually engrossed in their business. But if you should ask them, 'What are you doing? Why all this commotion?' you would find that they know nothing at all of their origin or their end, and that they look for no other good except eating and sleeping and assiduously pandering to their sensual desires.   ABU3069

The attacks are successive, and the armies and forces are like consecutive waves. From one direction is the army of commerce which attacks, from another the forces of industry which follow in succession, from one direction are the hosts of learning which are in constant conquest, and from another direction are the enthusiastic armies of political schemes which assault near and distant kingdoms   AB00386

But this seems unlikely, for although this magnificent people are full of distinction, they are captive to the world of nature and without opportunity. Though they are grateful birds, they are deprived and slow of perception. They are a thousand rose gardens but without the song of nightingales - they are the world of civilization but without melody and voice. No tune, no song, no warbling, no hearing.  AB02122

The philosophers of Europe and America have an idea that unity may be settled among the people and they have tried very much. They have conceived this idea and have written many books concerning this matter, but they have not been able and the result was contrary, for differences and opposition were raised up more than before. Therefore, we say that what the philosophers tried is without result, useless.  ABU0508

The dawning-point of these lights have been always in the East. The holy, divine Manifestations, the philosophers and thinkers have had their birth-places in the Orient. Life in the Orient is very simple, very charming, while in the occident it has become very complex and wheels within wheels. In the Eastern countries, the hearts are undisturbed and calm but in these regions the minds of men are engaged with the solution of civilizing problems.  ABU2385

Paris is the jungle of nature. The world of nature is the prototype of the animal kingdom and the natural instincts of the animals are materialistic. As the world of nature is the embodiment of the animal kingdom and as the instincts of the animals do not go one hair's breath beyond that of that nature, therefore Paris is akin to it. The laws of the animal Kingdom are the laws of the material world and these laws hold a general sway over the minds of the materialistic France.   ABU1927

The German in his true nature is the opposite, his natural predisposition to be a boundless world citizen stands in the way of his business efficiency. Boundless world idealism impedes his pedantic sense of duty and work. The German knows everything, both what he wants and what he does not want; he can do both and often does what he does not want but someone else wants, and most often he wants to do more than he is capable of. The German is an illusionist, researcher into the past and seeker of the future.   ABU1894

it behooveth the men of the East to ponder the consequences and startling results of Western policy, and to reflect on remedying these sudden maladies, safeguarding the future and preserving independence. Otherwise the people of honor and justice shall weep blood over their heedlessness concerning these vital matters. The land of Egypt is a lesson to those possessed of insight...Let men of high endeavor reflect on a power that can resist the Western assault on the East and repel the aggressive forces against the realm of Asia  AB12246

Consider how unwise and short-sighted are the leaders, the politicians and the philosophers of the present age! The American continent and Europe, that is, Germany and France, are a small portion of the terrestrial globe. What is the importance of this globe?-for it commands no importance when compared to these infinite bodies that abound in the limitless space; it is like unto an insignificant spot on the surface of the wide ocean. No importance should be attached to the terrestrial globe, how much less to one of the countries of the globe. The inhabitants of countries are so immersed in their imaginations that they carved for themselves statues of imagination, which they worship, when actually they are naught but fantastic images, yet in spite of that they are worshipped by everyone. How heedless, unintelligent and unwise are the leaders and philosophers of today!   AB01150

I have come to Europe and to Paris, and I have observed that Europe is highly advanced in material civilization, but the influence and effect of spiritual things is not as it should and must be.  ABU0179

We do not deprecate physical development, for the sound mind should work through a sound body, but We think that the people of the West are too much concerned with mere physical development. They forget the need of spiritual development.   ABU1926
