the Easterners depended entirely upon their spiritual leaders for their inspiration and advancement. During the days of these leaders, they made great advancement but this gradually died out   ABU1287

Although in Western lands, through the achievement of justice, hatred and enmity between religions and nations had diminished, in Eastern lands conflict, strife, enmity and hatred between religions and faiths had reached such a degree that they would drink each other's blood like sweet water. If they had the opportunity, they would set fire to each other's homes and burn each other's books.  AB00763

The Arabs we met today were deprived of civilization, and yet they think they are not in need of civilization or knowledge. They never prefer others to themselves, while in reality they are in absolute need of civilization and education.  ABU1517

all inventions and improvements in civilization came from the West, whereas the Eastern Nations cared for none of these things   ABU1287

The veil of women prevents education and learning. The religious scholars went to extremes in this matter, even considering it impermissible to hear women's voices. Yet it is established that Aisha, who was the consort of the Prophet, would sit and people would ask her questions which she would answer. During the circumambulation of the Ka'bah she called out "No face covering and no veil!" And Sakinah, daughter of Imam Husayn, would sit while poets would recite poetry in her presence and make her their judge. So it was permissible. Certainly if one can be unveiled among a hundred thousand pilgrims, by greater reason it should be permissible in other situations. Furthermore, hands and face are not included in the veil - rather the hair and other parts should be covered. This was how it was in the early period, but later they added to it to the point where they imprisoned women and prevented them from education and learning, bringing them to the utmost degradation. This is why Eastern women have remained backward. Chastity is necessary and self-control is very important, but not to the degree that it prevents education and learning, for the Law of God establishes virtues - they should not be prevented from acquiring virtues. ABU1604

The Americans are a satiated people who hunger -- this in contrast to the Persians, who in their state of hunger and privation believe themselves to be satiated and without need.  ABU3671

Baha'u'llah has made the Oriental women free from the fetters of bondage and captivity.  ABU0870


the disintegration of Ottoman Empire under the despotic and fanatical rule of the Sultans   ABU3193

Yet the children of the East gather under the banner of discord, entirely heedless and veiled.   AB03298

The Occident has great capacity and its people are less fettered by vain imaginings and imitations.  ABU3150

the Egyptians are fearful people with weak character, having been accustomed to subjugation from the beginning   ABU0688

How foolish are the people of the East to have incarcerated for wellnigh fifty years the like of this glorious Personage!   AB02805

They pay fabulous prices for these works of art and ancient paintings which are not at all appreciated by the Eastern people.   ABU2494

now the East must benefit from the material civilization of the West and the West must benefit from the divine civilization of the East   ABU3322

Wonder upon wonder and regret upon regret that the West has become alert while some in the East are still unaware of this melody and song.  AB10909

"If the people of Iran had acted thus they would not have become disordered. But instead of trustworthy guardians, traitors took charge."   ABU0535

In the Islamic Dispensation, the veil had become such that women could not walk in the streets and bazaars - they were like purchased slaves.  ABU1837

He deplored the short sightedness and ignorance of the leaders of that country and illustrated it by a story at the court of Sultan Abdul Aziz.   ABU2641

Women in the East were often times so weak that the term 'the weak one' was always applied to woman. This was because they were despised and scorned.  AB05762

But alas, we have come to the realm of the Copts, for they are frozen and lifeless, cold and unworthy of praise. The blazing fire will not impart warmth to these people.  AB10374

But when Persians become wealthy, they keep one hundred horses in their stables, give themselves up to pomp and show, engage themselves in satiating their selfish desires.  ABU2216

Praise be to God, notwithstanding this great gift (of the Cause) the Persians are captives of the neglectful sleep, and in relationship to this Cause they are ashamed and disgraced.  AB02228

Asia is pressed from all sides and no matter toward what horizon she looks anxiously for a ray of hope so that she may be delivered from this death, she cannot see but threatening clouds.  ABU1571

When the people of Europe look at the Arabs, they say - and they are right - that the Arabs are entirely deprived of every kind of knowledge, but they themselves think they are independent.  ABU1517

"Gentlemen, Westerners have taken everything from us: the sciences, the arts and the laws they took from the East. Now we fear that they may wrest from us the Cause of Baha'u'llah, as well."  ABU2711

Consider the gatherings of the Arabs. Rank upon rank of them come to visit the ill, sit, tell tales, smoke pipes and other tobacco, to the point that the atmosphere of the room becomes foul.   ABU0823

This wonderful age has rent asunder the veils of superstition and has condemned the prejudices of the people of the East. Among some of the nations of the Orient music and harmony was not approved  ABU2304

Therefore it behooveth the people of the East to contemplate discovering effective means whereby they may preserve their glory, honor, independence and protection from the meddling hands of the West.  AB00192

for the group of women had fallen to such a degree in the East that when mention was made of women in the Arabic language, one would say "Far be it from thee" just as one would say "Far be it from thee to be a donkey."  AB03153

In truth, there was not a single capable, knowledgeable person in Iran, and no aware soul could be found. Now they hope that some people from the East will study in Europe and return to Iran to become a cause of development.  ABU2058

The text criticizes the decline of Iran and its leadership: "in these recent times it has declined so much as to cause the regret of the wise and the sorrow of well-wishers" and "Observe to what a base level the leaders and nobles of Iran have fallen"  AB00607


"In these days Iran is in turmoil, the fire of oppression is ablaze, truthfulness, sincerity and justice are concealed, while tyranny, corruption and oppression prevail. Glory be to God! Most of the people of Iran are observed to be deprived of human virtues."   BH01114

Throughout Europe and America, we strived to elevate Iran's reputation and made people love Iran, presenting Iranians favorably in the public eye. But the thoughtlessness of Iranians destroys whatever we build...Yet Iranians rise up to shed each other's blood within Iran itself  ABU3761

The ground of Palestine is holy but its inhabitants are mercenary. Avaunt with the people here! They have no life, no vivacity nor animation. They are the captives of their stomachs. Their first thought in the morning is food and their last thought is food. They are worse than slaves.  ABU0488

The wisdom of my sojourn here in Paris, as well as the results it will yield, consist in the admonitions I have imparted to the people of the East, and the awareness I have instilled in the Persians -- and this to a degree greater than has been achieved with the inhabitants of Paris themselves!  ABU3752

"Yet despite this, the Iranians strike at their own roots with axe and hatchet, while the Baha'is have so glorified Iran in the eyes of others that today vast multitudes from all seven climes pay homage to Iran, for the Sun of Truth has dawned from that horizon and it is the holy homeland of Baha'u'llah."  AB00132

The Ottomans still don't know what to do, even though they can now easily keep their opponents busy fighting each other and thereby secure their own protection and preservation. Like the Iranians, whose affairs have become so disordered that their women have resorted to seeking protection from some German lady.   ABU2743

Iran is in ruins and truly all parties have taken up axes against the roots of this ancient foundation, completely unaware that this pickaxe is foundation-destroying and this axe is root-severing. Each party thinks it is engaged in construction, but in the Quran it states "They destroy their houses with their own hands."   AB02523

The nomads are utterly destitute of the knowledge of God. They live an animalistic life and all their thoughts are centered upon their cows, goats and crops. When they come together they speak of nothing else save these things. They know nothing else. Nominally they are Moslems, but they are unaware of the ideals of Mohammed.   ABU2111

Alas! Alas! These old, rotted trees will yield no more fruit. Rather, these peerless, fresh saplings of Iran will soon grow and develop by the stream of truth, will blossom and flower, will bring forth leaves and fruits, and will perfume the world with their divine fragrance and make fragrant the nostrils of the people of the West.  AB00137

And because they have performed so many passion plays and dramas about previous Imams and Prophets day and night, and have greatly exaggerated in their dramatic presentations - for instance, showing angels descending from heaven and making extremely exaggerated narrations - drama has become like a plaything and has absolutely no effect.   AB01246

"They say such and such an ullema has gone to heaven, and while there he stole a part of the throne of heaven and brought it down. In the Talmud it tells about the cocks who sang. Also how they beheaded the cocks and for six months they were eating them. They have written books on those things, and these books have retarded them very much."  ABU0208

The people of Iran are captive to the sleep of heedlessness. They are unaware that the wise ones of the West have become enamored with the Moon-faced Beloved of the East... Iran is the dawning-place of lights and the dayspring of the Sun of Truth. Despite this, the Iranians are in eclipse while the wise ones in distant climes are illumined and manifest.   AB04021

Although in the past all the great Spiritual Teachers have arisen in the East, there are still many men there who are quite devoid of spirituality. With regard to the things of the spirit they are as lifeless as a stone; nor do they wish to be otherwise, for they consider that man is only a higher form of animal and that the things of God concern him not.  ABU0555

The apparent lethargy in the Islamic world is not because the religion of the Arabian prophet was or is false but it is because the Mohamadans have forgotten the pure, democratic principles of the first age of Islam and have taken hold of spurious ceremonies, false premises and are spending their times in the study of dead theology and worthless metaphysics.   ABU1230

"The East is regarded in the eyes of the West as consisting of savage peoples, considered an inferior race, abased and detested. Now the power of the Most Great Name has so penetrated the very arteries and sinews of the Western world that in all regions of the earth, multitudes worship the Persians. Despite the manifestation of this mighty power, still the Persians remain heedless and absorbed in negligence."   AB00130

Still the Iranians do not awaken, they are afflicted with a rabbit's sleep, and these mindless leaders have so dominated them like a nightmare that they have not had a moment's relief from their stupor. Especially since "another tune was added to the tambour" - namely the interference of the shameless people in all affairs. The Iranians still have not understood that these calamities were brought upon Iran by this losing party.   AB00221

We hope through the grace and favor of the Divine Unity that this journey will result in the health and well-being of His Imperial Majesty, and likewise that the attendants of the court will discover beneficial matters of European civilization, observing with their own eyes and noting how civilization has been achieved in that clime through various means, so that they may adopt those same means and methods and implement them in Iran  AB12244

The Persians have tested every system for the salvation of their country. In Government they tried absolutism for many ages, and finally they realized it did not work; then they tried constitutionalism; this also did not yield any result; then they organized various political parties, Democratic, Liberal, Conservative, Union and Progress Republican, etc., these parties also worked against each other and instead of bringing order out of confusion, they made confusion worse confounded, and hastened the ruination of Persia.  ABU2136

Yet ironically, the Iranians take axe and hatchet to their own roots, for the Baha'is have so glorified Iran in the eyes of others that today vast multitudes from all seven climes pay homage to Iran, since the Sun of Truth dawned from that horizon and it is the holy homeland of Baha'u'llah. Observe what a bounty God has bestowed upon Iran and the Iranians! But what benefit, for if pearls and jewels fall into the hands of children, they will not adorn crown and diadem, and may be scattered by stones of cruelty, as Rumi said: "A child would trade a pearl for a piece of bread."   AB00141

The saved sect of Islam, from beginning to present, has occupied itself with rejecting, reviling, and denouncing one another as infidels, until those parties who lay in wait in ambush found their opportunity and inflicted that which has become the cause of this greatest weakness. Reflect upon these servants and what befell them. We have ever been occupied with goodly counsel and have spoken that which benefits the servants. Nevertheless, that which occurred caused every fair-minded one to lament and wail. The eye of the world has shed tears because of what befell the friends of God from various parties and peoples.  BH06409

The thoughts of the statesmen of the East are atrophied. Their hearts are devoid of the love of the progress of the nation. Their ideas are petty and not sublime; selfish and not disinterested, local and not general. They think more of the advancement of their own interests than that of the country. They are not far-seeing patriots but inexperienced tyros. They sell the resources of their own country, if they realize they can fill their own pockets. Except in two instances the two Mohamadan countries of the East have not produced real statesmen for the last 200 years. The rest have been ordinary men with less than ordinary political sagacity.   ABU1240

Iran was once a supreme paradise and had a precious faith. The people of Iran were at the forefront of knowledge and wisdom, and Iran's scholars were the educators and teachers of humankind. Its glory was enduring and the fame of its greatness was world-embracing. Its morals were the virtues of the human world and its ways were divine perfections. But alas, that light turned to darkness, and the people of Iran fell into conflict with each other until they mixed with other peoples. The soil of Iran became the battleground of foreigners, and nations of East and West invaded. The ancient foundation of the Iranians was shaken and collapsed. That supreme paradise became a sorrowful furnace, and that bright horizon was concealed by dark clouds. No trace of former virtues remained, and it fell from the heights of glory to the depths of abasement.   AB00803
