

The language of criticism and fault-finding is bad. It has become however the second nature in some people. All these evils are issued from self-adulation and personal conceit.  ABU1094

We must be just. We must not speak with our eyes closed to our own shortcomings and expatiate on those of others. 'Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?'   ABU1709

no censure is permissible towards any of the ruling sovereigns, neither as indications, nor as hints, nor even as subtle allusions. For this is a matter explicitly recorded in the Book and it is not permissible to deviate from the explicit Text.  AB03866

Consider how through their negative words, some can change an eager seeker into one disinterested and indifferent. Yet sometimes, just a single word causes guidance and the awakening of a multitude. At times a medicine can cure a patient, and at other times, the same can cause his demise.   ABU0824

However, the language should be moderate, tempered, and infinitely courteous. Look not at the language used by that hostile writer, for he was prejudiced and unrefined. Any person with the slightest degree of fairness will understand that his writing is totally biased and inspired by enmity.   AB05283

There is a school of philosophers today in Europe who deny not only the authenticity of the Bible but who claim that there is not such a Person as Jesus Christ. This is an ideal Christ invented by the apostles. Moreover the Evangelists in writing the Gospels stole away the utterances of the ancient sages and attributed them to this ideal Christ. All these are mere statements. They cannot prove them.   ABU2485

However, the language was somewhat harsh - if the expressions were more moderate it would be better. The magazine should be universally recognized as a herald of truth and benevolence, such that its mere hints would be equivalent to profound complaints. For instance, if it writes of someone that "this person deserves careful attention," this phrase should be equivalent to a book of complaints, such that readers would conclude that clearly this person must be extremely offensive, murderous and oppressive for Khurshid to make such an allusion.   AB00166

