His Holiness the Christ was fighting even upon the Cross, and His triumphant work continued through ages and cycles.  ABU1806

the enemies of Christ persecuted and crucified Him, yet He loved them all.  ABU2911

Pilate and Herod had realized that the Jews had falsely instigated Christ's execution and that Jesus was innocent   ABU2142

thou must become the manifestation of divine mercy and the dawning-place of the bounty and grace of the sovereign Unity. When they crucified Christ (may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him), a soldier thrust his spear into His blessed side. That holy Soul immediately offered this prayer: "O Lord! Forgive these souls, for they know not what they do. If they knew, they would not do it. Therefore, grant them Thy forgiveness."  AB07667

In the days of Christ the Jews denied Him, and jeered at Him and at last crucified Him   ABU1055

When Christ appeared, all objected, all denied, and even denounced Him as an infidel, and finally crucified Him.  ABU0103

The people of Moses consider themselves first in obedience to Moses and practitioners of all commandments, yet they crucified the Spirit (Christ).  AB00543

The first group to arise for His annihilation was Israel--Christ's own people and kindred. To all outward appearances they vanquished Him and brought Him to grievous abasement, even placing a crown of thorns upon His head and crucifying Him.  AB01520

We must strive to understand the divine hidden mysteries so that in the appearance of Christ we do not become veiled like the Jews, for the Jews were awaiting Christ but when Christ appeared they did not recognize Him but rather crucified Him because they did not understand the meanings of the Book.   ABU0250

This exactly mirrors Christ's ceremony. Christ performed a religious ceremony in past centuries...Christ's ceremony was on the cross with utmost humiliation, torment and cruelty. In this ceremony the Cardinal wore a jeweled crown, in that ceremony Christ wore a crown of thorns. This ceremony was with utmost celebration and glory, that ceremony with utmost oppression. In this ceremony fifteen thousand fell prostrate, in that ceremony the apostles were cursed and reviled. In this ceremony His Eminence the Cardinal wore silk and fine clothing, in that ceremony Christ was naked on the cross. In this ceremony the Cardinal held a jeweled staff, in that ceremony Christ didn't even have a stick.  ABU3665

Hence what injustice and inadvertence it was for those who believed in Moses as a prophet of God to apply the opprobrious term Beelzebub to His Holiness Christ... Inadvertence so blinded the people to the light of Christ that they crucified that glorious personage who had been the cause of life to man.  ABU0454

They thought that after Moses no other Divine Man must appear in the world; that he revealed the law and God's revelation was consummated in him. For this reason the Rabbis and the high-priests gave him the title of Belzebub, thought of him as a pretended upstart and cried out: 'Crucify him! Crucify him.'   ABU2092

Later they realized who He was; that He was the Sacred and Divine Light, and that His words held Eternal Life. His heart was full of love for all the world, His goodness was destined to reach each one -- and as they began to realize these things, they repented -- but He had been crucified!   ABU0619

He at length gave His life in sacrifice for humanity. All through His blessed life He suffered oppression and hardship, and in spite of all this humanity was His enemy!   ABU0619

As can be observed, when Christ departed to the vast world, His banner was raised high and His Cause became glorious.   AB04489

The interpretation of the dream is this: that certain souls will strive to extinguish the Fire of God that has been kindled, but through their efforts the flame will grow mightier and the penetrating power of the Word of God will increase. It will become clear and evident that Christ remained unharmed, and "they slew him not, neither crucified him, but it appeared so unto them." AB09387

So Christ never suffered upon the cross. From the time the crucifixion began His soul was in Heaven and He felt nothing but the Divine Presence. He did not say, speaking in Aramaic: 'O God! O God! why hast Thou forsaken me?', But this word Sabacthani is similar in sound to another which means glorify, and He actually murmured, 'O God! O God! How thou dost glorify me!'  ABU3683


When Jesus Christ was on earth He taught for three years and was then crucified. As He hung on the cross, during those dark hours one might imagine that He looked afar through the vista of time and saw the great honors the world would render Him. One might think that He saw the various churches and cathedrals erected in His name. But these were not His thoughts. He was thinking of the disciples,- the little group that had been freed from the toils of the world and belonged to the heavenly kingdom, and His thoughts went out lovingly to them.  ABU1874

The station of sacrifice is the great foundation. When you read the Old and New Testament, you will find that constantly the word "sacrifice" is mentioned. It is recorded that the Israelites sacrificed sheep so that their sins may be forgiven. In the time of Adam, Cain made sacrifice of sheaves of wheat and Abel made sacrifice of sheep. Now this is a symbol, and this word extended after the time of Christ. What is the symbol? Just as the sheep sacrificed its life, likewise this natural state of man, which is the animalistic state, must be sacrificed. How should it be sacrificed? The vices of the animalistic state of man must be entirely annihilated, and he must be characterized with divine virtues. It was a symbol and before His Holiness Christ appeared, all the Israelitish prophets made sacrifice of animals. This was a mystery of that higher sacrifice and when Christ came he said, I will sacrifice myself for the sake of the salvation of all. What did He mean? He meant to change their characters, and in this way make them heavenly, in this way make them God-like, spiritual and divine.  ABU1014

When I was in America a number of Christians came to me and asked a most subtle and difficult question. It was this: 'While the apostles longed with perfect resignation and radiant acquiescence for the station of martyrdom and many of them and thousands of later converts sacrificed their lives with joy and happiness, how is it that his holiness Jesus the Christ, just before his crucifixion prayed to His Father to take away this cup from him, saying: 'The spirit is truly ready, but the flesh is weak?' (St Mark Chap 14.v. 38)... I said: The answer to your question is very simple and given in a few words: The body or the flesh was 'sorrowful and very heavy' (Math chap 26th v. 37) because it loathed to be separated from the companionship of such a divine, celestial Spirit and be returned to clay and dust. This was the secret of its weakness, sorrow and heaviness.  ABU1363

As you have observed, after His ascension the greatness and glory of Christ was established both in the realm of the hearts and across the reaches of the earth, even unto the very dust itself.  So long as He dwelt in the corporeal world He was despised and reviled by the weakest nation on the earth, the Jews, who saw it fit that a crown of thorns be placed upon His blessed brow.  But after His ascension the gem-studded crowns of all the kings became humble and submissive before that crown of thorns.  AB01528

Finally matters reached the point where they mounted that Noble One on a donkey, placed a crown of thorns on His head, paraded Him through the streets and bazaars, and finally hung Him on the cross.   AB02958

When they pressed it upon His blessed head and spat in His beautiful face, they laid the foundation of His everlasting Kingdom. He still reigns, while they and their names have become lost and unknown.  ABU0126

Then We sent forth the Spirit [Jesus] and dispatched Him with a spirit from Our presence and a mercy from Our side, and He called the people unto this Great Name. He said: "Verily He shall come with the truth and shall fulfill for you what ye possess." Thus was the matter decreed from the presence of One knowing, informed. He would hasten through the field of praise and remembrance, and proclaim the mystery of this Secret that hath appeared with the ornament of God, the Powerful, the Supreme, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  Thereupon necks were stretched forth in hypocrisy and they arose to extinguish that resplendent, luminous Light. There befell Him in My path what hath not befallen anyone before Him - verily We were aware. BH00791

But when Jesus came, the oppression and cruelty were so great He was crucified. This Kingdom, wherein even the animals must live in peace, was not fulfilled in the time of Jesus, for even He was crucified.  ABU0783

When Jesus Christ was crucified and ascended, Mary Magdalen and the other disciples had fallen into such a state of excitement and agitation that during three days the Cause of God was annihilated for them.  ABU1136

"You must think of His Holiness Christ so that you may be real pilgrims. You will be conscious of how Christ suffered, how much he endured, and how they denied Him; how He was falsely accused until at last they crucified Him."  ABU0680

And His ascension to heaven, likewise, is spiritual and not material in nature. Aside from this, it has been established by science that the material heaven is a limitless space, void and empty, wherein countless stars and planets move.  AB00575

Remember Christ, when they placed the crown of thorns on His head. At that very moment, as the thorns wounded His brow, He looked down the vista of the centuries and beheld innumerable kings bowing their jewelled crowns low before that crown of thorns.  ABU1963

He Who was Thy Spirit (Jesus), O my God, withdrew all alone in the darkness of the night preceding His last day on earth, and falling on His face to the ground besought Thee saying: "If it be Thy will, O my Lord, my Well-Beloved, let this cup, through Thy grace and bounty, pass from me."  BH01887

If a king wished to forgive his subjects, would he send his son to be killed by them? Certainly not. If this would be unjust in a king, how much more unjust would it be on the part of God to send His Son to be killed. Christ came of His own will to be a sacrifice that the people might become educated and progress.  ABU0848

But at the hour of His crucifixion, He knew He was leaving the mortal for the immortal life; He knew He was leaving the physical to ascend to the spiritual world. When they put on His head the crown of thorns, He thought of the crown of the Kingdom. While He was hanging on the cross He thought of the eternal throne.  ABU0495

If His Holiness Christ had not been martyred, His Cause would not have become so famous. When they placed the crown of thorns on the head of Christ, and carried Him around the streets, His Holiness Christ used to see that all the sovereigns of the world were bowing before Him. All the crowns bowed before his crown of thorns.   ABU0304

Verily the heaven into which the Messiah rose up was not this unending sky, rather was His heaven the Kingdom of His beneficent Lord. Even as He Himself hath said, 'I came down from heaven,' and again, 'The Son of Man is in heaven.' Hence it is clear that His heaven is beyond all directional points; it encircleth all existence, and is raised up for those who worship God.  AB01866

Their speeches in the meeting will be to the effect that Christ sacrificed Himself in order to redeem us from our sins. But they do not understand the inner meaning. After the meeting He spoke extensively on this subject, saying that the redemption of sins depends on our acting upon the admonitions of Christ, and the martyrdom of Christ was to cause us to attain praiseworthy morals and supreme stations.  ABU3144

Every trouble befell Him; they crowned Him with thorns, and finally killed Him. Imagine how ignorant they were. Some of them shouted out, 'Crucify Him for he is not the true Messiah, whose coming is to be under special conditions, which must take place according to the facts mentioned in the Bible: but this man is from Nazareth, and we know where He lives, how does He claim to have come from Heaven while we know He is the son of Mary.'  ABU1911

The redeeming death of Christ has been misunderstood for centuries. Go to the monks of the monastery of Elijah, and they will tell you the following: "God harbours such anger for the sinful, fallen human beings, that only the voluntary sacrifice of Christ, which lies in His suffering and death, could win back for the human race the forgiveness and mercy of God and had the power to justify it anew. The wrath of God had to be quenched by the most noble blood!" O you disciples of Elijah, what then? According to this view Christ would have had nothing more important to do than to suffer and to die as quickly as possible! O Christendom! Did not Christ have to live a pure, perfect earthly life as an eternally shining example to his deluded contemporaries; did not He, the great Master, have to refresh and teach again the Revelation, the guidance of God, and imbue with the laws and ordinances of the All-Highest a generation gone astray, blind and deaf? Surely, my daughter, you automatically ask: "Yes, but why then did Christ have to suffer and die vicariously on the cross for our sins?" One important reason I will unveil for you today: "Each Manifestation of God, from Buddha and Confucius to Baha'u'llah, lived a life in God, with God, for God, and such a life, according to the eternal and inscrutable laws of the Creator, is only possible through the creature's obedience and sacrifice. With His life Christ, the Holy One, proved His obedience, in His death he proved His complete sacrifice! Even you, O Baha'i friend, will be able to walk the way to the Kingdom of God only through a life of action in obedience to God's Will and through daily suffering and dying in self-sacrifice. - How much more then the Holy Heralds of God?"  ABU1479

Christ was living and enduring, and was ascending to the heaven of reality. By heaven is not meant the physical heaven but the spiritual heaven. As He came from heaven, so did He return to heaven; and yet outwardly He had not come from the visible heaven but was born of Mary. But in reality He had come from the spiritual heaven, as He said: "I came from heaven." Thus it became evident that the reality of Christ came from the divine heaven, not from the physical heaven, and likewise He ascended to the divine heaven, not to the physical heaven  AB12232

When the holy breaths of Christ and the sanctified lights of the Most Great Luminary were spread abroad, human realities, that is, those souls who turned toward the Word of God and partook of His manifold grace were saved from this attachment and sin, were granted eternal life, were delivered from the chains of bondage and entered the realm of freedom. They were purged of earthly vices and endowed with heavenly virtues. This is the meaning of Christ's words that I gave My blood for the life of the world. That is, I chose to bear all these trials, afflictions and calamities, even the most great martyrdom, to attain this ultimate objective and to ensure the remission of sins--that is, the detachment of spirits from the material world and their attraction to the divine realm--that souls may arise who will be the very essence of guidance and the manifestations of the perfections of the Kingdom on high.   AB00100

When the Lord Christ was crowned with thorns, He knew that all the diadems of the world were at His feet. All earthly crowns, however brilliant, powerful and resplendent, bowed in adoration before the crown of thorns!   ABU1175

His holiness Christ after his crucifixion had only eleven disciples. One of his disciples betrayed him, another denied him thrice and the rest deserted him on the crucial night of his life. He was left all alone, friendless and helpless.  ABU1889
