If the rain does not pour down, the wind does not blow, the storm and tempest do not rage, - the soul-refreshing spring does not appear. If the clouds do not weep, the meadows do not laugh. The hurricane, and tornado, the cyclone and the blast are the harbingers of the spring.   ABU1272

Though in winter days severe cold, snow and rain prevail, with thunderbolts, hardships, whirlwinds and storms, yet this bitter cold is followed by a gentle spring, and this intense cold by a perfectly temperate season. If there were no winter storms, spring flowers and herbs would not display their beauty  AB02156

As there are four seasons in this material world, so it is in the spiritual world. When the divine spring is over and the heavenly bounty ceases, the trees of being lie dormant. Lifelessness and stillness prevail over the world of man. People become spiritless and withered. Autumn and winter set in. There exists no flower or greenery, no cheerfulness or mirth, no happiness or joy. Then the spiritual spring spreads its tent once more. The gardens of the hearts regain their freshness, charm and verdure. The buds of knowledge open and the anemones of reality appear. The world of man becomes another world, This is the divine law and is a requirement of the world of creation. This is the cause of the appearance of the many Manifestations of God.  ABU2228


The Sun of Reality is like unto the physical sun. It will rise and set everlastingly.  ABU1557

Unless the season of winter appear, thunder roll, lightning flash, snow and rain fall, hail and frost descend and the intensity of cold execute its command, the season of the soul-refreshing spring would not come, the fragrant breeze would not waft, the moderation of temperature would not be realized, the roses and hyacinths would not grow, the surface of the earth would not become a delectable paradise, the trees would not bloom, neither would they bring forth fruits and leaves.  AB02481

But for winter's harsh storms, its rain and snow, and rising waters, the meadow could not smile, its flower patches could not be renewed, the trees could not blossom, the breezes of spring could not bestow their reviving breath, and the musk-laden fragrances could not delight the sense of smell. The gifts, delights, and freshness of the season of spring are the result of the severity and harshness of winter's storms.  AB02085

Until the winter season comes, and lightning strikes, and thunder peals, and snow and rain fall, and ice and storm occur, and the intensity of cold exerts its influence, the life-giving spring does not arrive, and the perfumed breeze does not blow, and moderate weather does not come, and flowers and fragrant herbs do not sprout, and the earth's surface does not become supreme paradise, and trees do not blossom and bring forth leaves and fruit. That intensity of cold and snow and storm and tempest were prerequisites for the appearance of these flowers and fragrant herbs and blossoms and flowers and fruits.   AB01873

when you look at the globe of earth in autumn, you observe it is but a heap of black soil and cheerless dust. There is neither flower nor hyacinth, neither sweet basil nor jasmine, neither verdure nor freshness, neither grace nor beauty. The beauties of the garden have neither comeliness nor charm. But when the spring clouds and April showers pour down, and the rain of divine bounty descends, and heavenly grace arrives, and the clouds weep, then the meadow laughs and the desert and wilderness come alive.  AB01589


The words of the astrologers are for the most part doubtful and unreliable. But the whole of creation is interrelated like the different parts of the human body which have a complete affinity from the toenail to the hair on the head. Every part is perfectly connected with the other. Similarly, the whole of creation forms a chain composed, as it were, of many links connected with each other. It is therefore obvious that they all greatly influence each other and are part of organized, regular cycles. ABU3146

God works in cycles - day and night, summer and winter, life and death, and human beings are subject to these laws.  ABU0299

When the cycle of existence and the realm of manifestation progressed through all degrees and stations of ascent and elevation, the time arrived for the appearance and emergence of the realities of perfection, the mysteries of the Kingdom, and the subtle and wondrous secrets of the Beauty which were hidden and concealed in the potentialities and innermost realities of being like seeds and grains beneath the soil. AB03121

For every night is followed by a day, and every day has a night. Every spring has an autumn, and every autumn has its spring.   ABU0394


A man may with the utmost care attend to a garden for a hundred years, but if it be neglected for a single year it will become a wilderness.  ABU2089

Just as in the physical world they observe a spring season, summer season, autumn period, and winter days, in the same way there are seasons in the spiritual world.  ABU0633

Youth is followed by old age, a tender plant becomes an old, decrepit tree, dynasties are born, wax strong, reach to the zenith of glory and then totter to the ground.  ABU2675


In this most great age, the majority of human souls are in continuous resurrection, and this gathering and dispersion will perpetually continue until the end of the greatest cycle.  AB01271

'To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the sun. A time to be born and a time to die; a time to weep and a time to laugh; a time to keep silence and a time to speak.'  ABU2693

Christ said, 'What has happened in the past will happen again in the future.' The reason of this is that all things are under the operation of Divine Law which is the same today, yesterday, and forever.   ABU3202

The human world, like the terrestrial globe, has its seasons and cycles. The winter season has its requirements and the summer season its necessities. Similarly, the human world today has its requirements and necessities.   AB00769

At two times is the clamor and cry of the people of contingent existence raised up - once at the beginning, that is, at the first creation, and again at the return. Although the beginning is and ever shall be identical with the return.  BH03732

Glorified art Thou, O my God! How many Dispensations hast Thou manifested unto them through themselves, making them the Throne of Thy Revelation, causing them to die through Thy power and raising them unto Thee through Thy sovereignty.  BB00003

In the time of spring the blossoming of the wilderness gives loving pleasure... But, in the season of falling leaves, it is well to seek shelter and rest within a house. In the time of winter a small room in the simplest dwelling is desired.   AB01456

The world is a manifest book which, at every moment, has borne and continues to bear witness to its own transience. Indeed, from the beginning of the world until now it has proclaimed "Depart! Depart!" and with most eloquent utterance declares: "O servants! Observe the changes in me. At times I appear in the darkness of night, and at other times in the light of dawn. My trees are sometimes seen in the fullness of greenness and freshness, and sometimes appear yellow, withered and dry."  BH05793

God causes trees to grow, reach perfection and then decline, followed by new growth from their seeds - "This is the example of the new creation, the miraculous cycle and the second resurrection, which is in conformity with the first creation."  AB00778

The months of December and January have passed, and the life-giving springtime hath arrived. The plains and wilderness have become as paradise on high, and the gardens and meadows have been transformed into the rose-garden of the Supreme Heaven.  AB09361

This is among the laws of existence, and thou wilt find no change in His law, for everything save God is subject to lassitude and alteration with the passing of centuries and ages, except the outpouring of the All-Forgiving Lord which continues throughout all cycles and ages.  AB00967

With respect to the species, however, return and recurrence are plainly visible in material realities; that is, the trees which in years past bore leaves, blossoms and fruits will in the years to come bear the same leaves, blossoms and fruits. This is called recurrence of species.  AB00036

Abdul Baha then gave an illustration of the four successive seasons, - spring, summer, autumn, and winter, and said that no man of intelligence would venture to state that because the spring of last year has come once that it is sufficient for all time, and we do not need another spring  ABU1928

The subjects of the great king are continually changing. Some pass away, but other come. Sometimes we see some of the countries rising, while others flourish. Thus it is with the reign of god. Sometimes it is greater than at other times. Events are continually taking place in the world.   ABU0810


A seed comes into the world of existence. It is planted, and it sprouts and grows. The plant puts out branches, leaves, and flowers, and bears fruit. The seed has disappeared, and has appeared again in all these forms. After all this it returns as seed; that is, seeds appear like the seed which was sown.  ABU2645

At one time it is autumn, at another spring; at one time summer, at another winter. When it crosses the equator, spring appears in all its splendor. When it reaches the summer solstice, fruits attain their full perfection, grains yield their harvest, and earthly beings reach their most complete development.  AB00921

"Briefly, there were many universal cycles preceding this one in which we are living. They were consummated, completed and their traces obliterated. The divine and creative purpose in them was the evolution of spiritual man, just as it is in this cycle. The circle of existence is the same circle; it returns."  ABU0403


The Bab and Baha'u'llah taught: The creation, the emanated, is the descending curve of the Logos (the breath of life of God) and the development (evolution) is the ascending curve; this (curve) is, however, nothing else than the coming back or returning of all things to God, be it for destruction or for absolute perfection.  ABU0017

There were some lovely pink rosebuds on the table that came from the New Tomb. Our Lord said: we had these flowers last year and to-day we see the same. We are in the habit of saying these flowers are the return of last year's flowers. We do not mean the identical substance but the same properties, such as color, fragrance and appearance.   ABU0525

Heedlessness had encompassed the world and darkness had encircled the universe. Coldness had gripped all living men and torpor afflicted everyone. Then the sea of divine mercy billowed forth again and the fragrance of a loving Providence was wafted over the world. The morn of guidance shone once more and the Sun of Truth revealed its glory.  AB03759

After the passage of time, once more man returns to his base nature and is seized in the grasp of darkness and unfaithfulness. The original condition is reinstated, the bright day is darkened, the world of humanity becomes the animal world, splendor is transmuted to obscurity, and heavenly attraction turns into fullfilment of carnal desires.  ABU1172

Praise be to God Who made the seasons manifestations of His names amongst His servants, through which He takes and gives, that all existence, both seen and unseen, may be assured that He is the Bountiful Giver and the Just Taker. We find ourselves now in a cold that tells of bitter frost, through which man bears witness to the grace of spring.   BH00964


Although the signs of the Most Great Resurrection and the Supreme Catastrophe were specific to the Day of the Manifestation of the Revealer of Sinai, yet His ordinances continue and His outpouring descends and His light shines forth and His dawn gleams bright. For every age has its Day and every cycle is the extended period between two Manifestations.   AB01761


So there are four seasons in the perishable, outer world-spring, which brings the vegetables, refreshes the animals, and promises fruits; summer, which charges the trees with fruits; then follows, the autumn, after which comes the winter, when the trees are bare and empty. Such is the condition of the spiritual world, which has its four seasons-spring, summer, autumn, and winter.  ABU1318

When anything has been renewed in this contingent world it is found to be in a better condition, and if renewal did not take place from time to time, annihilation would be the result of all contingent beings. If the planets had no rotation they would soon cease to exist. This is the reason that God has ordained rotation and renewal. Even the sun itself revolves around another center.  ABU0895

Every universal reality in this world has its rising and setting, its night and day. The days of the appearance of the Holy Manifestations are days of dawning, days of reunion, days of the shining forth of the lights of beauty. After the setting of the Sun of Reality, it is the time of separation, the time of absence, the night of remoteness - until the next manifestation and another rising.  AB11678

The spiritual world is like unto the phenomenal world. They are the exact counterpart of each other. Whatever objects appear in this world of existence are the outer pictures of the world of heaven. When we look upon the phenomenal world, we perceive that it is divided into four seasons; one is the season of spring, another the season of summer, another autumn and then these three seasons are followed by winter.  ABU1161

From a biological standpoint, when a tree is planted, day by day it will grow and develop till it reaches the stage of fruitage. For some years, at stated times, it produces leaves, blossoms and fruits: it will inevitably start on the retrograding path of decay and dissolution. In the world of genesis, every phenomenon goes through this process of growth and decay, life and death, spring and winter, cold and heat.   ABU1089

Let us give another illustration: Last year's seed was sown, branches and leaves appeared, blossoms and fruits came forth, and in the end a new seed was produced. When this second seed is planted it will grow into a tree, and once more those leaves, blossoms, branches and fruits will return, and the former tree will once again appear. As the beginning was a seed and the end likewise a seed, we say that the seed has returned.   AB00419

For example, the requirement of winter is cold weather, snow, storm, hail, rain etc. we cannot call a winter a winter unless these things are made possible...After the velocity of the gale the soul-refreshing breeze will waft. After the sterility and apparent death; fertility and life will manifest. After the hurricane and storm quietness and calmness will reign. After the silence of the birds they will all break forth into joyous songs of spring.   ABU1022

This thousand years or fifty thousand years are approximate limits and metaphors for ages and cycles. In that promised day, divine bounties descend clearly from the Kingdom of the All-Merciful and the heaven of oneness, and since those bounties do not find eternal establishment in this lower world, but rather that radiating light returns again to the shining star, and that rain of mercy which comes from the effusions of the sea of oneness returns again to the mighty ocean   AB00355

The seasons have their wisdom and the times their requirements. In springtime the birds of the meadow break into song and the spring season reveals wondrous artistry. The nightingale in this wondrous season grants the listeners their share of various melodies. The dove of the garden of inner meanings is stirred into motion. But in autumn all songs grow silent and the birds of the meadow, placing their heads under the wing of pain and tribulation, cease their songs and melodies.  AB11663

But the natural order established by divine decree is that after death this body must pass through different states until, according to the relationships that exist in the world of being, it systematically mixes and combines with other beings, passes through various stages, undergoes chemical decomposition, transfers to the plant kingdom, becomes flowers and fragrant herbs, and transforms into trees of the highest paradise, acquiring a musk-like fragrance and seeking delicate colors.  AB00949


Each of the luminous bodies of this limitless firmament has its cycle of revolution, that period wherein it completes the full circuit of its orbit before beginning a new one. The earth, for example, completes a revolution every three hundred and sixty-five days, five hours, forty-eight minutes and a fraction, and then begins anew along the same orbit. In the same way, the entire universe, whether with respect to the realm of nature or the realm of man, proceeds through cycles of major events and occurrences.   AB00206

It is an established fact that Man travels through these various kingdoms. The indivisible atom in the mineral kingdom appears through infinite changes, and in each change it manifests a peculiar virtue. - Having perfected its journeys through the mineral kingdom it acsends to the vegetable kingdom - Again in the vegetable kingdom this indivisible atom manifests itself throughout all the different varieties of plant life, and having again finished its experiences in this kingdom it will appear in the animal kingdom.  ABU0234

The spiritual spring hath appeared, and the April clouds, through divine bounty, have bestowed pearls and gems. The rain clouds of the Lord's mercy, through the outpourings of mysterious grace, have made the garden's expanse a supreme paradise and adorned the spiritual gardens with the anemones of truth and meaning. From every direction the flowers of the meadow have shown their faces and appeared in the utmost freshness and grace, and the birds of dawn have been stirred and have sung and spoken the mysteries of love.  AB00953


Now several blessed trees in former times grew and developed in this garden of existence and divine paradise of bounty until they manifested their perfections in the meadow of reality. Divine grace and bounty became evident, and all that was necessary of true influence and human virtues became manifest and visible. The tree grew mighty, its branches extended, cast shade over the world of creation, and nations and peoples found rest beneath its extended shade and were nourished by its good fruits. When its life cycle ended, renewal became necessary and another sapling from that same blessed tree began to grow and develop.   AB00200

The luminous celestial Sun has its rising and setting, and because of this the universe has its night and day, its springtime and autumn, its summer and winter seasons. This cycle is eternal and, being inherent to the world of existence, knows neither change nor alteration. When springtime arrives, the Sun bestows a new bounty, its heat and rays shine forth, April clouds pour down rain, and life-giving breezes blow. The clouds weep and meadows smile, the spring breeze becomes musk-laden, and plain and mountain become flowering gardens. The vernal equinox manifests, the world finds renewed spirit, and a new resurrection takes place.  ABU0215

The spiritual cycles associated with the Prophets of God proceed in like manner. That is, the day of the advent of the Holy Manifestations is the spiritual springtime. It is divine splendour and heavenly grace; it is the wafting of the breeze of life and the dawning of the Sun of Truth. Spirits are revived, hearts are refreshed, souls are refined, all existence is stirred into motion, and human realities are rejoiced and grow in attainments and perfections. Universal progress is achieved, the souls are gathered up, and the dead are quickened to life--for it is the day of resurrection, the season of commotion and ferment, the hour of joy and gladness, and the time of rapture and abandon.  AB00086

Among the divine customs and consummate wisdom of the Eternal is this: when springtime arrives and autumn's might is broken, when life-giving spring appears and the radiant sun steps into Aries, when April's clouds shed their pearls and May's winds blow, when March's life-giving breezes pass, the trees turn green and branches burst into bloom, when plains and wilderness, mountains and hills become as emerald green, putting to shame the finest silk, when flowers and tulips adorn the meadows and pastures and flower gardens rival the gardens of Paradise, when cypress trees grow tall in the gardens and nightingales sing their laments, when buds become wordless with wonder, and all these divine gifts unveil their countenance--yet the time of fruit and the appearance of fresh produce and the result of these effects comes in summer, in the season of intense heat, in the severity of midsummer's blaze, in the fierce burning of the celestial sun.  AB01122

Just as the solar year has four seasons--spring with its life-giving qualities, summer with its intense heat, autumn when all things shed their leaves, and winter with its great upheaval--outwardly spring is beneficial and life-sustaining, when all things grow and develop, plains and wilderness turn green and verdant, all things put forth leaves and blossoms, and every living thing is quickened by the vernal breeze, blood courses through veins and arteries, and life is renewed. Summer is intense, autumn brings withering, and winter brings storms, fierce winds, snow and blizzards, hail and rain--a mighty revolution. Yet when you look to reality, all seasons serve the world of existence; without them it would be incomplete. It is winter's revolution, winter's storm, winter's cold, its ice and blizzard that creates the life-giving spring. Without winter's storm, the world of existence would not don new garments in spring. The gentleness of spring comes from winter's severity.  ABU0239
