This is the circle of the Command through which the heaven's sphere doth turn   BH10395

O my God! Thou hast sent forth the honored Temple and the Greatest Talisman in the form of the square within the shape of the triangle.  AB05992

For safekeeping, a Most Exalted, Most Mighty, Most Glorious circle in the handwriting of Mirza Aqa Jan has been sent for your honor and Shams Shama Haji.   BH09807

ye shall write the temple of Unity and preserve it as ye desire. All of these are eleven units from the Names which ye write in nineteen temples, and whatsoever ye desire to add.   BB00108

And since this Revelation hath been made manifest in the name of Ha, it hath, through its Ha-like effulgences, caused all the letters of contingent being and of creation to become manifest.  BB00005

Concerning the mystic circle you mentioned, the written text has been sent to your presence. As far as possible, it should be written with musk and saffron. This servant has also added some red ink for its color and permanence.  BH00197

The text provides detailed instructions for creating and using the Da'iratu'l-Ayqagh, including the specific timing (19 days starting from the 5th of each month), the recitation of seven divine names 19 times, and an accompanying prayer.   BB00351

When a need befalleth thee or anyone desireth to be gathered with the people of Truth, then make upon a sheet of white paper seven circles whose width between the lines is equal, with yellow water whether it be gold or saffron, and divide it into nineteen parts wherein no part is less than another by a hair's breadth with that influential water.  BB00032

It was previously submitted that a circle would be sent, the details of which are as follows: The origin of this circle existed before, and at the beginning of the Manifestation of the Point of the Bayan - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - permission was granted to some to keep it with them specifically for protection and countless affairs. However, its greatest pillar remained concealed and was not completed except in this most mighty, most holy, and most wondrous Revelation.  BH11677

These are the keys of knowledge in the number of all things. When these nineteen invocations have reached you, multiply each one by the number of the Vahid and then by all things. This is from God's grace and mercy upon you, that ye may be thankful. Say: Verily God hath created for you the ring and made its adornment for you in your hands that ye may at all times comprehend. And if ye inscribe upon it a verse from the Book of God, ye shall attain your sustenance in the most expeditious manner whether ye be on land or sea.   BB00373

As to the manner of preserving the sacred talisman after performing ablutions: Wholly detached from all else, and turning to God, the Lord of Earth and Heaven, one should sit facing the Qiblih. Then recite the verse of power which is inscribed in the first line, followed by the Names of God which are recorded in the second line. Then, with the utmost humility, reverence, detachment, attention and sincerity, fold it and keep it without opening it again. And if at any time, for any reason, it is opened, all that was mentioned must be performed anew.  BH00831

