
the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds  BH11226

It [the state of sleep] likewise beareth witness to the resurrection and revival after death, even as Luqman said to his son: "If thou art able not to sleep, thou art able not to die. And if thou art able not to awaken after sleep, thou art able not to be raised after death." Even as death is a reality, so is sleep a reality, and even as there is awakening after sleep, so is there resurrection after death. Sleep sometimes varies according to the differences in souls, thoughts, food and drink. In the dreams of holy souls there hath been and is no variation, for they are pure wakefulness.  O questioner! Man is the greatest index and the mightiest talisman. He is an index in which are found the representations of all that hath been created in earth and heaven. When the spirit is freed from incidental limitations and earthly conditions, it traverseth all stations, and the more it is detached, the swifter, more constant and more truthful is its journey. If it be said that the human temple is, in one station, the kingdom of God, this is the truth in which there is no doubt, for the representation of all things is found and witnessed therein. Though some have called it the lesser world, yet We bear witness that it is the greater world. BH00135

to raise me up from my resting-place on the Day of Resurrection  BB00599

On the Day of Reckoning He summons all unto the Lord of Creation.  BH10801

and to the Last Day when people shall stand before the Lord of the worlds   BH05245

The Day of Resurrection hath come, yet the heedless are in a strange sleep.   BH10897

That Day is the Day of God's victory and the Day wherein God shall manifest Me  BB00004

The Cry hath been raised and the Hour hath appeared and the Trumpet hath been sounded   BH11103

This is the proof by which God shall resurrect all who are in the graves, though you know it not.  BB00004

As to thy question about resurrection, that which hath been revealed in the Book of Certitude is sufficient. Well is it with them that understand!  BH00433

The Day of Resurrection has been decreed to be fifty thousand years, and all were veiled from it.   BB00350

Verily We have unveiled the secrets on the Day of Resurrection from within your own selves with truth through truth  BB00002

In a former tradition it was mentioned that on the Day of Resurrection God, glorified be His majesty, will raise up Friday   BH04663

the great resurrection occurred, the mighty Day of Judgment arose, the pavilion of glory was raised in the land of gathering  AB06346

Verily He is the One through Whom the Greater Resurrection hath come to pass and all created things have been gathered together   BH09411

All shall return unto Him. Say: All shall be resurrected unto Him. Say: All shall be transformed unto Him. Say: All shall be brought before Him.  BB00004

Through Him the Resurrection and its might have appeared, and the Hour and its signs have been made manifest, yet most of the people are in evident doubt.   BH05459

"Hath the Resurrection come to pass?" Say: "Yea, by My All-Knowing, All-Wise Self!" "Hath the Hour arrived?" Say: "Yea, by the Lord of the Mighty Throne!"   BH07205

that same cry that appeared once in the form of the Trumpet, wherein it was blown, and all who are on earth were struck with swooning, save whom God did will  BH05688

The Day which ye were promised in the Tablets hath come unto you, and every soul hath come with its deeds, though none comprehend this save those possessed of understanding.   BH04361

God will soon show you your true Lord upon His throne on the Day of Resurrection upon the straight path, and ye shall surely witness that His power extendeth equally over all worlds.  BB00002

And the great resurrection came to pass, and the mighty catastrophe occurred, and all that were in earth and heaven were brought together-one group in paradise and one group in the fire  AB08478

Verily We have waited patiently on the Day of Resurrection fifty thousand years that all things might be tested, until naught remaineth save the face of thy Lord, possessed of glory and majesty.   BB00273

Then shall I enumerate for thee the names of the Day of Resurrection that thou mayest be of them that remember what hath been mentioned regarding the visitation of the Apostle of God on the Promised Day  BB00506

That which is meant by judgment in the Gospel is a spiritual judgment. It is not meant that the world of divinity will be ended, the divine bounties will cease, and the Revelation of GOD will be finished.  ABU1557

On the Day when the Spirit and the angels shall stand in ranks around the Remembrance, by God's leave, in extended array. None shall enter Paradise save he who beareth in his neck a mighty covenant from God.  BB00002

This is the Day whereof ye were promised in the Tablets, when the heavens shall be folded up in the right hand of Power, when the earth shall be grasped by the hand of Will, and when the seas shall be set ablaze.  BH00783

The Hour hath passed and the Resurrection hath come to pass, yet the people see and perceive not. The Call hath been raised between earth and heaven, and the earth hath been transformed, yet the people understand not  BH05838

Verily We shall unveil the secrets on the Day of Resurrection from within yourselves in truth by truth; there shall ye bear witness unto the Most Great Remembrance through what God hath placed within you of His signs.  BB00002

Entertain no doubts about the Day of Resurrection, for it is a day like unto your own selves. God may bring about the resurrection and judge between the people and decree fifty thousand years in five years or a day.  BB00004

And when that Tree ascendeth to heaven, no one shall be raised from their resting-place until the Day of Resurrection. On that Day God shall raise up from among the people whomsoever He willeth, from believers and others.  BB00004

This is the Day of hearing, for the Call hath been raised from the direction of the Throne, would ye but hear it. And this is the Day of vision, for the lights of the Countenance have shone forth from the horizon of manifestation.   BH06381

Fear ye not the Day when no master shall avail his master in aught, and the Kingdom on that Day shall belong in truth to the All-Merciful and to the family of God and their true followers, as hath been inscribed in the Mother Book.  BB00002

Verily ye shall have a station on the path on the Day of Resurrection where ye shall in truth be questioned. God will question His servants concerning what they do in God's religion without the judgment of truth concealed in that Book.  BB00002

Verily We have unveiled the secrets on the Day of Resurrection from within your own selves with truth through truth, whereupon ye shall surely bear witness unto the Most Great Remembrance through what God hath placed within your souls of His signs.  BB00002

This Day is truth from your Lord. There shall ye not possess for yourselves even a fragment of the Book's knowledge, cut off in truth. On that Day, true sovereignty shall belong to the All-Merciful, and ye shall not be able to utter a word in truth.  BB00002

Has the Resurrection come to pass? Nay, the Self-Subsisting has appeared with the kingdom of verses...Have the souls been gathered?" Say: Yea, by my Lord...The breeze of the All-Merciful has wafted and souls have stirred in the tombs of their bodies   BH02116

The Day of "Am I not?" is the Day of Manifestation. It is the hour of resurrection and revival. It is the time of the revelation of light. It is the moment of effulgence upon Sinai and the Mount. It is the Most Great Resurrection and the Supreme Catastrophe  AB05701

All whom God created in every world have returned, believer and otherwise. All have been raised in the tombs of the living - the believers among the foremost of the righteous, and others whom We love not to mention, yet people remain veiled from God's Cause.  BB00087

Verily the opposers, on the Day of Presence and the Day of Manifestation, shall hang down their heads before their Lord, and thou on that day shalt be veiled from the Gate. And naught veileth thee from Him save that which thy vain imaginings have veiled thee therefrom.  BB00244

On the Day of Resurrection, all shall be present before God. Say: On the Day of Resurrection, all shall stand in devotion before God. Say: On the Day of Resurrection, all shall humble themselves before God. Say: On the Day of Resurrection, all shall be brought low before God.  BB00004

Were ye to possess the whole earth, yet shall ye die and unto God, your Lord, shall ye return. None can benefit you from your graves save God Who created you. And the sovereigns who existed aforetime - were God to will, He would raise them from their resting-places by their names.  BB00004

O Muhammad! Say: Verily He is the True One Who shall gather mankind on the Day of Resurrection through His command, that He may recompense every soul according to what it hath earned, and before Him shall all be brought. And from death until an appointed time ye shall all be resurrected.   BB00454

That Day is filled with conditions, signs, verses, events, wonders, manifestations and appearances that establish the firm foundation of fifty thousand years, though this number is symbolic and greater than that. For example, with one call of "Am I not?" the gathering and dispersion was realized.   AB02699

On the Day of Resurrection there shall be no ties of kinship between you save what God hath ordained for you in the Book. That is the Day whereon the Primal Tree shall recite from God that which God desireth to decree concerning all things. Fear ye God on that Day, then continue in the fear of God.  BB00004

The first to prostrate before Me was Muhammad, then Ali. These are the witnesses after Him, then the Gates of Guidance - they who hastened to the Cause of their Lord, and they are the triumphant ones. Verily, the beginning of that Cause is the first Day of Resurrection when all shall be brought before God.  BB00330

Resurrection is soul-exciting and the Day of Judgment full of blessings. The Turk turneth into a kinsman, the Arab into a foreigner and the Persian into a stranger. Distant becometh near, the deficient perfect, the learned ignorant, the poor wealthy, the rich impoverished, the mighty abased, and the abased mighty.  AB09824


This is the Day wherein whatsoever hath been hidden and concealed in existence becometh manifest and evident. God, exalted be His glory, speaking of the Day of Resurrection, hath said: "The Day when all secrets shall be tried." Now this hath been partially revealed that all may acknowledge with clear certainty that which He hath proclaimed and promised.   BH01221

Glory be to Him Who established the Greater Resurrection! Glory be to Him Who created and fashioned! Glory be to Him Who extended the Path and raised up the highest heavens! Glory be to Him Who set the Balance and gathered together all in existence for the next creation, and caused those who believed to enter into His mercy, and the heedless into hellfire and torment  AB09082

God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. He will gather you all together on the Day of Resurrection - this is God's decree wherein there is no doubt. Say: All on that Day shall return unto God, thy Lord. God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. Say: All on that Day shall ask of His grace. God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. Say: All on that Day shall act by God's leave.  BB00004

Fear the Day of Truth. We shall gather you around the Fire and question you concerning what you have done with the Remembrance. By the Truth, We shall make the polytheists taste the heat of the Fire with severe punishment, and We shall fully reward the patient ones with the finest reward in the Land of Saffron, according to the decree of the Book, from the judgment of the Gate, in comfort.  BB00002


At the time of the appearance and manifestation of the rays of the Daystar of Truth, all occupy the same station. God then proclaimeth that which He willeth, and whoso heareth His call and acknowledgeth His truth is accounted among the inhabitants of Paradise. Such a soul hath traversed the Bridge, the Balance, and all that hath been recorded regarding the Day of Resurrection, and hath reached his destination. The Day of God's Revelation is the Day of the most great Resurrection.   BH00827

By God! This is the Day of Distinction. And what shall make thee understand what the Day of Distinction is? Woe on that Day to the deniers who deny the Day of Judgment! None denieth it save every transgressor, every sinful one. This is the Day whereon the Interlocutor of Sinai hath spoken, whereon the Trump hath been blown, those in the graves have been raised, and all who are in the heavens and on earth have swooned away, except whom God hath willed, the Mighty, the All-Praised.   BH01506

These are the verses of the Spirit sent down in truth from the presence of One powerful, mighty, and omnipotent, bringing glad tidings to the people of the Day of Gathering - the Day whereon God shall come with His Cause upon clouds of a Name that hath been resplendent with truth. On that Day shall the believers rejoice in God's joy, and victory shall appear from the horizon of glory. On that Day shall the Balance be set up and the deeds of all, both small and great, shall be weighed.   BH07016

The Day of Deception, the Day of the Imminent Event, the Day of Mutual Loss and Gain. Then look at the loss of him who was the most learned soul in Islam, for one whom no one knew hath been exalted through the sublimity of guidance and faith, while he through his veiling hath been brought low through the baseness of servitude and the veil - what loss could equal this? Then He said: The Day of Separation - observe how God hath separated through His verses between the people of Paradise and of the Fire  BB00506

Therefore bear thou witness with the eye of thine heart and on the Day of Resurrection, for all are asleep concerning that Day, and God hath created naught save for that Day. And verily that Day hath been mentioned by God in the Qur'an aforetime in numerous places... Every manifestation before its resurrection appeareth in the subsequent manifestation - for example, the resurrection of the Gospel appeared in the twenty-third year of the revelation of the Furqan (Qur'an), and the resurrection of the Qur'an appeared in the manifestation of the Bayan, and the resurrection of the Bayan shall appear in the manifestation of Him Whom God shall make manifest  BB00506

Know that regarding what you asked about the meaning of the Day of Resurrection - it has endless ranks in God's knowledge. Among them is the Day of Origination, the Day of Creation, the Day of Production, the Day of Bringing into Being, the Day of Formation, the Day of the Term, and the Day of the Book. In brief, every matter has its day. When "Day" is applied in the realm of the First and Pre-existent Manifestation, it is the very sign of Manifestation which has no beginning and no end in the station of concealment, due to the all-encompassing nature of God's grace in the beginning and end. When applied in the eternal realm, it has a beginning in the station of existence but God has not given it an end in His knowledge, for His grace never ceases for an instant. When applied in the realm of perpetuity, it has a beginning in relation to eternity and an end in relation to itself. When applied in the realm of time, it is determined by the motion of the celestial spheres. For all these meanings, mention of the Day of Resurrection is true, for it is the Day of Standing before the Lord of mankind. The Lesser Resurrection is the day of the rise of God's Messenger (peace be upon him and his family) with prophethood in the Return. The Greater Resurrection is the Day in which God gathers all that His knowledge encompasses to judge between all in truth concerning their differences, and He does not wrong His servants. Today the mystery of the Day of Resurrection has appeared to judge between all in truth. In this dark, deaf, blind and gloomy trial, all people will be distinguished. Today God's judgment is like His judgment in the past. Then afterwards, glorified and exalted is He above what they describe. BB00324
