
He resorted to every means and wrote in his own hand to Sultan Abdu'l-Aziz, requesting the Blessed Beauty's banishment from Baghdad, claiming that Iran was in danger, the government was apprehensive, and ultimately both states would suffer harm. Thus came Sultan Abdu'l-Aziz's decree, and the Blessed Beauty's departure was arranged. Although it was a matter of exile and banishment, He moved to Najib Pasha's garden with utmost authority. During those twelve days there, the Cause of God was so exalted that the Governor Namiq Pasha, all military and provincial officials, religious scholars, and notables of the nation would come day and night to attain His presence. Though it was ostensibly an exile, due to the penetrating influence of God's Cause in those few days, the exaltation of God's Word, and the diffusion of the divine fragrances, those days passed with such joy and delight that they became the Festival of Ridvan, and He departed with perfect sovereignty, to which all the people of Iraq bear witness.   AB00050

For twelve years We associated and consorted with the people of Iraq with perfect love, harmony and favor. At the time of Our departure from the house and arrival in the garden which was named Ridvan, most of the officials and notables of the government and country were grieved to witness it, and some of the princes wept. In truth, a new resurrection arose. From every soul radiated the light of love.  BH10938


When We were about to depart from Baghdad, We moved to the garden of Najib Pasha. We remained in that garden for twelve days, and each day a group from among the inhabitants of Baghdad would come to bid Us farewell.  BHU0029

When they wanted to move the Blessed Beauty from Baghdad, Namiq Pasha sent the order and official papers to His presence with the message that "Once before an order came and we wrote some excuses to the Sublime Porte. This is the second time these orders have come and there is no choice but to execute them." At that time the Blessed Beauty, may His glory be exalted, accepted and preparations for departure were made. Although He never liked pomp, nevertheless He said "In these days we must depart with utmost majesty." Therefore He went to the Pasha's garden and stayed for twelve days, arranging festivities and celebrating the Most Great Festival. But Mirza Yahya was afraid and very unstable in temperament. At one point he said "Send me to Mosul and change my name." This was accepted and it was arranged that his name would be Haji Ali and his profession would be selling lace. Then he came and said "No, this is not good - they will figure out who I am. Tell them to build me a reed house in Huvaydar in Shaykh Sultan's garden. I will go stay there and have someone assigned to look after me, and let no one come to see me." This was accepted and when Shaykh Sultan was instructed he carried out his request. Then Yahya said "It won't work - people will find out and kill me. Send me to Mosul, but send me ahead. Whatever happens will happen on the road - meaning if they hand you over to Iranian officials or kill you, I won't be among you." This was accepted and he was sent ahead. Siyyid Muhammad Isfahani was with us and always spoke ill of Yahya. When we reached Diyarbakr, Siyyid Muhammad came and said "Mirza Yahya is here wrapped up like a dervish in such-and-such a way to show he is one of the dervishes." I said "Tell the truth." He said "Do you want me to bring him?" He went and brought him, but he pretended not to know us, saying "What is your name?" He said "Haji Ali," then spoke nonsense about having been to Mecca and other places. Haji Mirza Ahmad wanted to sleep and was annoyed. After he left, he quarreled with Siyyid Muhammad saying "Who was that man you brought? The smell of his beard bothered us." Later when Yahya saw there was no fear or danger, and the arrangements were splendid since all his family were with the Blessed Beauty, he sent word "I will come among you at night but let no one know who I am." This was accepted and he would come at night to a tent that had been pitched for him, and during the days he would go away and keep his distance. Siyyid Muhammad would always debate with him and he was unable to answer, until he complained to the Blessed Beauty. The Blessed Beauty, may His glory be exalted, prohibited Siyyid Muhammad from bothering him, until certain behaviors were observed from Siyyid Muhammad and the Blessed Beauty banished him. At that point he went and joined Yahya. ABU0642


As the Ridvan Festival marked the beginning of the announcement of Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest, and as the Ancient Beauty, though banished and exiled, manifested and shone forth to all horizons with perfect joy, majesty and divine glory in Najib Pasha's garden outside [Baghdad]   AB02737


The All-Compelling One hath appeared after the Qa'im and is seated upon the throne of the Bayan.  BH08386

Now the light of Baha'u'llah has illumined East and West and set the world of creation in motion.   AB01676

At this time, Baha'u'llah, like the sun, rose from the eastern horizon and through the lights of truth promoted teachings  AB01419

The Truth hath come with manifest sovereignty!" And hear from the air: "By God, the Glory hath come from God, the Mighty, the Loving!"   BH04608

The Divine Messenger, Who speaketh naught but the truth, hath announced unto you the coming of the Best-Beloved. Behold, He is now come.  BH02747

until the radiant Sun shone forth from the East of Iran and its world-conquering rays reached from East to West and gave life to soul and spirit   AB04903

He informed the world of the Most Great Manifestation and gave them glad tidings of this Name whereby every heedless and remote one hath lamented.  BH06305

At such a time as this Baha'u'llah dawned from the horizon of Persia. He reformed and renewed the fundamentals and realities of Christ's teachings.   ABU0394

At a time when the East was enveloped and thickly beset by the gloom and darkness of such prejudices, Baha'u'llah appeared like the sun upon the horizon.   ABU1661

Nearly sixty years ago, at a time when the Orient was engaged in warfare, when there was enmity between the different religions, . . . Baha'u'llah appeared.  ABU2365

The title of Baha'o'llah was given by himself. The Blessed Beauty gave the name 'Baha'o'llah' to himself and He wrote it to his holiness The Supreme (The Bab).  ABU1012

In Baghdad He proclaimed himself as the One whom God would manifest, but Baha'o'llah was known to the believers (before this time) as the manifestation of Huseyn.  ABU1012

In the days when the Sun of the horizons dawned from the East of Iraq and illumined with its brilliant rays the daysprings of the world and the foreheads of nations   AB05088

for the Most Great Luminary, the Ancient Beauty, the Sun of Glory hath shone forth upon all regions and directions, and the earth is illumined by the light of its Lord   AB06518

Say: He hath come with the truth, and by Him the fruits have fallen from the trees, and the souls of the righteous were stirred, and the pillars of creation were shaken.   BH03401

this is the year of the manifestation of the Ancient Beauty, as the Most Glorious Beauty, exalted be He, hath said: "Then in the year nine ye shall attain unto all good."   AB11685

"He hath come, He at Whose mention Paradise and the Most Exalted Garden were attracted."...This is He at Whose appearance the Books of the peoples bowed down in submission."  BH04504

Baha'u'llah was a Persian personage descended from prominent lineage. During His early years a Youth Whose name was Ali-Muhammad appeared in Persia. He was entitled the Bab, which means door or gate.  ABU0040

The sea hath testified to the Most Great Sea, and the sun to this Luminous Orb. The heaven hath borne witness to the Lord of Names, and the light to this Revelation whereby the horizon of the world hath been illumined.   BH05859

His Holiness Baha'Ullah appeared about sixty years ago in Persia, at a time when among the people of Persia there was strife and enmity unspeakable, to the extent that each considered the other religionists as outcasts.  ABU0171

That illumined Orb hath risen from the horizon of sanctity and holiness to shed Its Rays upon the expanse of the universe and that mysterious Beloved hath rent asunder the veil of concealment and appeared in the Assemblage of Humanity  AB01100

The Beloved calls out: "The Best-Beloved has come with clear sovereignty!" And the Spirit proclaims before His face: "That which was hidden in the heaven of your Lord's will, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed, has been made manifest!"   BH06425

His Holiness, BAHA'O'LLAH, like unto the sun, shone forth from the horizon of the East and with radiating splendor He illumined the Orient. The light of that Sun of Reality consisted of heavenly teachings which were spread in the Orient  AB00481

At a time when the darkness of ignorance had obscured the horizon of the East, at such a time Baha'u'llah appeared. His light in the East was like the light of the sun, illuminating the world of thought after it had been in utter darkness.   ABU1080

This is the day when the Ancient Beauty moved toward another palace, despite those who denied the Day of Judgment - the Day in which the veils were rent asunder, the clouds were dispersed, and the lights of the Face appeared from this luminous horizon.  BH05462

And when this intense darkness - meaning the traditions of ancestors - encompassed the world and the original light of divine religions completely disappeared, the true dawn broke and the Sun of Reality rose from the horizon of Iran, casting the ray of heavenly unity upon the human world.  AB00866

Praise be to God, a world-illumining ray made the universe the court of the Sun and bestowed a new spirit upon the world of the soul. The dark night of deprivation passed and the luminous morn of effulgence dawned. The Beloved of the horizons stepped gracefully into the garden court and became the Beauty of the assembly.   AB02421

"The divine morn has dawned! The Sun of Reality has shone forth! The divine springtime has arrived and the life-giving breeze of the Kingdom has wafted! The Most Exalted Beauty appeared and the Sun of the horizon of truth became manifest and evident! He made the world a paradise of Ridvan and made the earth the envy of heaven!"  AB01952

This is the Day wherein that which lay hidden in God's knowledge, the Lord of the Day of Judgment, hath been made manifest, and wherein the Dove of Knowledge hath warbled upon the highest branches. The gate of heaven hath been opened, and the Lord of Names hath come with such authority as the hosts of earth and heaven cannot withstand.  BH11515


The Baha'o'llah stepped forth from his tent and explained the birth of a new cycle - that the horizons were flooded with new ideals - the antiquated laws were no longer valid - that a new revelation, a new light had come. He exhorted them to sacrifice themselves for it. From that moment the cause of Baha'o'llah leaped into a flaming torch.  ABU0306


This was then the beginning of the memorable days of Rizwan. For twelve days He was in this garden. The Door of Meeting was open to all the inhabitants of Bagdad. The Clergy, the theologians, the noblemen, the poets, the Pashas, the laity, all those who came were ushered into His Divine Presence and listened to His Words. No one was sent away, not one soul was excluded.   ABU1779

When Baha'u'llah returned from Sulaymaniyyih, He illumined Baghdad with His light: The call of God was raised anew and a tumult arose in Persia. In Baghdad Baha'u'llah stood firm before all peoples. The government of Persia was extremely hostile in those days, and all were seeking by every means to cause Him suffering and to bring Him to harm. At last the Persian government, having grown alarmed at His influence, said: "Baghdad is close to Persia and is a place of passage for the Persians. Thus, in order to put out this fire Baha'u'llah must be banished to a distant land." The Persian government then petitioned the Ottoman government, and Baha'u'llah was as a result transferred with all due honour out of Baghdad. Leaving the city, Baha'u'llah went to the garden of Najib Pasha and resided there for twelve days. During that time many people, both high and low, and even the Governor and a number of other officials, attained His blessed presence. These are the twelve days of Ridvan. In any event, it was by means of hints and allusions that Baha'u'llah first declared His mission during those twelve days. Certain among the friends grasped His intent, but others did not fully understand. At last Baha'u'llah came to Constantinople and the Surih of pilgrimage was revealed, wherein the instruction is given to circumambulate the House of Baghdad. In that Surih the Cause is openly manifest, but the phrase "He Whom God shall make manifest" does not appear. AB00097

The Sun of the heaven of the Glorious Lord and the unique Light has risen from the horizon of the world with a world-illumining ray that brightened the infinite expanse of the material and spiritual realms and made the plane of contingency the envy of rose gardens and meadows. The cloud of January poured down, the spring breeze wafted, the light of truth shone forth, the glad tidings of attainment arrived, and the Blessed Beauty became the witness of the gathering.   AB04787

In that garden His blessed tent was raised, and in that very hour, to spite the enemies, the Festival of Ridvan was proclaimed. At such a time, during the Blessed Beauty's exile when the friends were in anguish, with supreme power in the afternoon of Ridvan, immediately upon arrival at the garden, the Festival of Ridvan was announced and the Cause was proclaimed. Outwardly, until that day there had been no mention of Him Whom God shall make manifest - on that day He made mention of it.  ABU0351

This was the ninth day that the Blessed Perfection leaving Bagdad, stayed in the garden of Najib Pasha before starting for Constantinople.   ABU1533

It was an hour like unto this and on such a day that Baha'u'llah was bidding farewell to the friends in Bagdad, preparatory to his departure for the garden of Rizwan outside the town.   ABU1779
