The spirit of prayer which animates My soul is the direct consequence of a dream which I had in the year before the declaration of My Mission. When I awoke, I felt that the Spirit of God had permeated and taken possession of My soul. My heart was thrilled with the joy of His Divine presence, and the mysteries of His Revelation were unfolded before My eyes in all their glory.  BB00605




on the Day of the Declaration of His Holiness the First Point   AB12119


This, verily, is He Who appeared in the year sixty, and this is one of His mighty signs.   BH02033

Verily I say, I am the Bab, the Gate of God, and thou art the Babu'l-Bab, the gate of that Gate.  BBU0009

The Bab was banished from Shiraz to the banks of the Araxes, but this exile was full of blessing  AB01183


Yesterday, which was the fifth of Jumada al-Awwal, the Day of the Declaration of His Holiness the Exalted One   AB02203

that honored region, which was the native land of His Holiness the Exalted One, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him   AB02567

He said, "I have come from the fortress of Maku, having attained the honor of meeting His Holiness the Exalted One."   ABU0986

He was in the prime of youth, having completed twenty-five years of His blessed life, when He arose to proclaim His Cause.  AB01889

His holiness the Bab gave to Himself the titles 'Bab', 'First Point,' (Noqteyeh Qala) and 'The Mention of God' (Zekrullah).  ABU1012

And the Primal Point appeared and gave glad tidings unto all of My manifestation and My Book and My presence and My firm and mighty Cause   BH05389

Shiraz at the beginning of the dawning of the Sun of Truth became a sanctuary of mysteries and the melody and song of the Supreme Concourse began.   AB05092

the dawning of the Morn of Guidance--the Primal Point--and that the glad tidings He gave concerning the blessed appearance of Baha'u'llah will be recited  AB12267

If the Blessed Perfection had not exerted Himself to raise up the Cause of God, the Cause of the Primal Point [the Bab] would have been completely effaced.  ABU2972

That city was illumined with the presence of His Highness, the Bab, after he left Shiraz; the Word of God was promulgated; many blessed souls became believers  AB03593

Bear thou witness in thy soul, thy being and thy spirit that the Tree of Sinai hath been raised up in truth in the year sixty and hath spoken in the most exalted voice  BH04385

"the fifth day of Jamadiyu'l-Avval 1260, near the evening hour when the Exalted One...made His declaration to the Babu'l-Bab"   BH02278

There I shall deliver the Message of God to the Sharif of Mecca. I then shall return to Kufih, where again, in the Masjid of that holy city, I shall manifest His Cause.  BBU0009

And in this second year of my Revelation -- a Revelation which took place at Thy behest -- I bear witness that Thou art the Most Manifest, the Omnipotent, the Ever-Abiding   BB00426

From the East, from Iran, the Great Dawn of Guidance, the Bab, appeared. Then the luminous candle of Baha'u'llah shone forth and the teachings of Baha'u'llah were promoted.  ABU0633

You wrote about the celebration of the Day of the Declaration of the Bab, that on that day you arranged a feast and engaged in mention of God, recited verses and said prayers.  AB12177

The letter that you have written on the anniversary day of the declaration of the First Point (the Bab) - may my life be a ransom to him - became the cause of great happiness.  AB01885

This is the day of the Proclamation of the Bab! It is the Festival of the Forerunner of the Blessed Beauty (Baha'u'llah). It is the day of the dawning of the Morning of Guidance.   ABU2110

The congratulations for the Day of the Declaration of the Bab (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) arrived and I was very pleased that such a grand celebration was held in Paris.  AB04120

The Primal Point appeared from the Dawning Place of God's Will with divine majesty from the unseen realm into the visible world, and gave tidings of this blessed and wondrous Day.   BH04898

"At such a time the Dawn of Guidance, His Highness the Supreme, the Bab, appeared, His Holiness Baha'u'llah, like unto a sun, shone forth and all this darkness was converted into light."  ABU2255

He hath manifested the Manifestation of His Self with the name of 'Ali, to give glad tidings unto all men of the Revelation of God, the Powerful, the Supreme, the Mighty, the Compelling.   BH06182

The Bab appeared in Shiraz seventy years ago and gave the glad tidings of the appearance of the Kingdom. He sacrificed His life in the path of God and made souls ready for the love of God.  ABU0618

Thy letter, concerning the celebration of the anniversary of the declaration of His Holiness the Supreme --may my spirit be sacrificed for Him!--which was held on the land of the Mashrak-el-Azcar, was read.  AB04046

Regarding what you wrote about the Day of the Declaration of the Bab (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him), it is recorded in the Questions and Answers that the Day of Perfection falls in the Month of Greatness   AB05139

This is the Day when the Sun of Truth was hidden behind the clouds of divine providence. This is the Day when that shining Moon did set. This is the Day when that sacred and delicate Body rolled in dust and blood.   AB03056


This day is a blessed day. Many Tablets have been revealed for this day by Baha'u'llah. The Blessed Beauty celebrated this day every year, for this day of the Bab's Declaration is the dawning of the advent of this Cause.  ABU0907

By calculation, the Day of the Bab is foretold, and also the prophecies of the Koran, as to the twelve Imams. One prophecy says that in 1260 A.H. (1844 A.D.) the Day of the Lord shall appear (after the flight of Mohammed).   ABU0601

meaning that focal point is the Remembrance of God, and what He announces will become manifest and evident in the year after sixty-eight, which corresponds to the numerical value of "time," and after "time" is sixty-nine, meaning it will bear fruit  AB04613

When the people -- after forgetting the teachings of Christ and His example of love to all humanity -- had again grown tired of material things, a heavenly Star shone once more in Persia, a new illumination appeared and now a great light is spreading throughout all lands.   ABU1446

After 1260 years this Mehdi or Bab appeared and He said "the morning has dawned and the hour has come. I am this door and have come to prepare the way before Him." The Bab has explicitly declared in the Book of Bayan, that after 19 years the Promised One will appear or come."   ABU0718

On the Day when God caused me to speak by His command, eight and twenty years had elapsed from my life, and three months save a few days. On that Day I was upon the mountain. This excludeth the time I spent in the womb, which God had ordained for me as nine months and nine days.  BB00004

The Bab - may my spirit be sacrificed for His most pure blood - like a lion emerged from that jungle and raised such a cry throughout all regions that trembling and tumult seized their foundations. That noble Being taught all the lesson of the love of God and kindled the fire of divine love  AB12798


Today is the anniversary of the declaration of the Bab - Peace be upon thee! Today the Bab declared this cause in Shirza, Persia. The appearance of the Bab resembles the dawn, for the dawn holds the promise of the sun. The dawn of the Bab promised the rising of the sun of truth that is to envelop the whole world.   ABU0127


This is the Night from the orient of whose Day the Morn of Eternity hath dawned and the whole world hath been illumined by the splendour of its light, shining forth above this radiant Horizon. Say, verily this is the Day in which God hath entered into a covenant concerning Him Who proclaimeth the Truth when He sent forth the One bearing unto mankind the tidings of this Great Announcement.   BH01928

The beginning of the year 1260 marked the first appearance of the Mystery, and for this reason was revealed the phrase "There is no power nor strength except through God, the Exalted, the Great" after the number of the negation and affirmation. The year 1260 concludeth, and every six is the manifestation of the Mystery of Muhammad and His Family, upon them be the blessings of God and all His glory.   BB00170

That which Mirza Abu'l-Fadl stated is proven by the Sacred Text. In the Ahsanu'l-Qisas, which is the first Book of the Bab, He addresses Siyyid Akbar. The Speaker is the Bab, and He says regarding who this Siyyid Akbar is: "By God the Truth! I am verily a Houri whom Baha gave birth to in a palace of moist crimson ruby" and "I and those who dwell in Paradise yearn for the soul who is martyred in His path."   ABU1986

"According to the text of the Religion of God and the irrefutable command, the fifth of Zamadi-Avval (May 23rd) is the day of the Declaration of His Highness the Supreme (the Bab)--may my life be a sacrifice to Him! Consequently, they must celebrate and adorn that Blessed Day in the name of the Declaration of that Orb of regions; make rejoicing and happiness, and impart the glad-tidings of heavenly beatitude to each other."  AB00644

On the night of the fifth of Jamadiyu'l-Avval, Mulla Husayn was seated in the presence of the Bab, who was preparing the tea. As the Bab was serving the tea, He recited certain verses. Mulla Husayn was amazed and astonished to hear a young man, with no religious education or training in the Arabic tongue, recite verses of the utmost eloquence and power, a feat which he could have never thought possible. This led to his awakening and allegiance.  AB00046

This Day is a blessed day, and many Tablets have been revealed for this Day by Baha'u'llah. The Blessed Beauty celebrated this Feast every year. For this Day of the Bab's Declaration is the dawn of the Manifestation of the Cause. The dawn of the day is a very blessed time. Though at dawn the fullness of the Sun's splendor is not manifest, yet as the dawn bears the glad tidings of the rising of the Sun, it is found with exceeding purity and brilliancy and the air is then at its purest.   ABU0558

This is a Tablet from Our presence to glorify the Night in which heavens and earth were illumined by the Day-Star whose effulgent splendour hath encompassed the dwellers of the whole world. Immeasurably blessed art thou, inasmuch as the Day of God hath been born in thee -- the Day which hath been singled out by Us to be the lamp of salvation unto the denizens of the cities of names, the chalice of blissfulness for such as dwell within the immensities of the realm of immortality and the source of joy and gladness unto all the inmates of the world of creation.   BH02162

This is 23 May, the anniversary of the message and Declaration of the Bab. It is a blessed day and the dawn of manifestation, for the appearance of the Bab was the early light of the true morn, whereas the manifestation of the Blessed Beauty, Baha'u'llah, was the shining forth of the sun. Therefore, it is a blessed day, the inception of the heavenly bounty, the beginning of the divine effulgence. On this day in 1844 the Bab was sent forth heralding and proclaiming the Kingdom of God, announcing the glad tidings of the coming of Baha'u'llah and withstanding the opposition of the whole Persian nation.  ABU0346

In the year one thousand two hundred and sixty [A.H.], when He was in His twenty-fifth year, certain signs became apparent in His conduct, behavior, manners, and demeanor whereby it became evident in Shiraz that He had some conflict in His mind and some other flight beneath His wing. He began to speak and to declare the rank of Bab-hood. Now what He intended by the term Bab [Gate] was this, that He was the channel of grace from some great Person still behind the veil of glory, Who was the possessor of countless and boundless perfections, by Whose will He moved, and to the bond of Whose love He clung.  AB00003
