The protection of the Cause is incumbent upon thee.  BH02714

protect the stronghold of Thy Cause from those who would break away from it  AB09142

exert utmost effort in protecting and preserving the Cause that no harm may occur   BH05139

Of course, the believers are vigilant to deal with such accusations convincingly.   ABU2464

Guard thou the pearls of the love of God lest they be stolen by every rejected traitor.   BH09838

due to the excessive mischief of the stubborn people there wasn't the courage to post it  AB01559

The matter of the reply to Browne is important and takes precedence over other writings.   AB04565

The Divine Cause is blessed, but dangers surround it from every direction among all peoples.  ABU1023

become a mighty barrier of iron between Thy servants and Gog of commotion and Magog of upheaval.   AB05148

Great care and caution are needed so that no breach occurs in the mighty fortress of God's Cause   AB01591

Ye are God's hosts upon earth. Guard ye the fortress of My Cause from every doubting transgressor.   BH04976

They must be vigilant at all times concerning the Trust of God, lest the treacherous seize and steal it.   BH09213

This servant beseeches the Most Great Unity that you may be protected and preserved under the shadow of His grace   AB03268

This degree of disclosure will cause great agitation and its harm will reach the Holy Land. Much wisdom is required.  AB01641

In times when the oppressed friends were in utmost danger, they would protect and defend. This will not be forgotten.  AB00491

The enemies of the Faith have been and are lying in wait - preserve yourselves through the blessing of the Most Great Name.   BH08972

The friends of God must, like clear verses, dispel doubts and drive away that unknown ignorant one through the power of proof.   AB06797

Regarding sending someone to be present during the typesetting of Abu'l-Fadl's book of proofs - God willing, this shall be arranged.  AB04593

It is incumbent upon you to strive to safeguard the Cause to the extent of your power, lest the Pharaohs prevail over the hosts of God  BH04372

The gathering with the divines of Sangalaj and the presentation of luminous proofs and conclusive testimonies was a cause of great joy.   AB09302

However, a mighty effort is needed so that the pearl of divine love may remain safe in the heart from the guile of thieves and traitors.   BH06120

Unsheath from the scabbard of thy mouth a tongue like unto the sword of Haydar, and charge the ranks of those who follow ambiguous texts.  AB07604

Be sure to visit Miss Rosenberg at the Chinese Professor's and explain matters to him, making all of Brown's errors completely clear to him.  AB03398

Because some sects will send certain men to mingle with you in order to throw suspicion upon those who are weak, therefore avoid them carefully.   AB04527

if I should fail to make an effort to protect you, I should be not only responsible for your injury, but also guilty of connivance with the enemy.  ABU3546

There are times that one is obliged to speak, otherwise the opponents go away and spread the rumor that we have been unable to solve their problems.   ABU1390

Guard the divine trust through the hosts of steadfastness and righteousness, lest the armies of idle fancies and vain imaginings seize and plunder it.  BH05682

This much is sufficient - that they praise this Cause and its great station, and deny the false rumors that the unfaithful ignorant ones have spread.   AB00386

A response was written and sent to be published and distributed. Show it to some of the impartial members of the assembly but do not give them copies.  AB11639

You should properly record in the margins his additions, alterations, sophistry and injustices, and explain these to the seeking souls in that region.   AB06681

When His Cause is protected, we all remain protected and preserved under the shade of His blessed Tree. Otherwise, alas for all from that great terror!  AB11789

that thou mayest be unto Him and unto that which He desireth to convey regarding the remembrance of God a beauteous protector. Guard thou it and thyself  BB00567

Therefore, O friends of God, gird up firmly the loins of service and protect the people of the world from the deceit and hypocrisy of the people of discord.  BH01361

In this day, the most useful books are those which demonstrate the validity of the Cause with logical proofs, intellectual evidences and spiritual arguments.   ABU3075

But the guardians must protect that garden and meadow from autumn winds and preserve it safe and secure from the hands of thieves and transgression of neighbors   AB11757

yesterday there was a detailed discussion proving His station and the power and universal influence of His Word, with clear proofs and brilliant evidences presented   AB01951

It is necessary to prevent people from entering such places and to make every possible effort to protect the Cause from all directions, lest the satans make a breach.  BH05325

Take thou the reins of the Cause with the power of thy Lord, then make mention of Him amongst the servants with such remembrances as will cause spirits to be attracted.   BH02489

I hope that the Hands of the Cause of God, may the glory of God be upon them, will, like bars of iron, protect the mighty fortress of the Cause from the attack of others.   AB04925

First, it is not permissible for this servant to engage in confrontation with such persons, as it would cause rebellion and cut off hope and lead to despair in that author.   AB06478

You must exercise the utmost protection regarding others, especially the leaves of the blessed tree, lest anyone cast doubts and misgivings upon them verbally or in writing.  AB03534

And as for the matter of the aforementioned person - if, as you wrote, he is occupied with raising doubts, certainly vigilance and protection of the Cause of God is necessary  AB05797

Therefore, O my God, protect it from the perversion of the extremists and the innovations of the innovators, and preserve the fortress of Thy Cause from those who would break away  AB09142

Such souls are nothing but pure harm to The Cause of God, and it is very well that they go out, for the abominable deeds of such souls are like unto an axe at the root of The Cause.  AB11439

Protect ye the weak lest they follow every remote clamourer. From their outward appearance thou hearest the voice of men, but from their inward reality We hear the croaking of ravens.   BH05087

The mighty fortress of God's Cause must be protected from the arrows of hatred and malice of such persons. Otherwise, the very foundation of God's religion will be completely destroyed   AB02900

In any spot in the Caucasus, as soon as news arrives of these foolish ones, that soul must, like a piercing flame and striking lightning and swooping eagle, arrive and drive away that failing bat.   AB03654

You must protect the Cause of God and write to everyone and awaken them that they must absolutely not meet with any Iranian person without a document from me in their hand with my writing and signature.   AB03122

Many prejudiced missionaries had written voluminous books against the prophethood of Mohamad and we cut clear through those iron walls of misrepresentations and made manifest the truth as the sun in midday.   ABU1230

"arisen to aid Thy Cause, to silence Thy opponents, to compel Thy disputants, and to break the power of those who war against Thee, by spreading proofs and presenting decisive evidence with clear exposition"  AB11686

Beware, O people, lest ye commit that which would dishonor the Cause of your Lord, the Mighty, the Loving, for whatsoever ye commit, the people attribute to the Source of the Cause, as ye yourselves witness.   BH01706

Had the Amir-Nizam been aware of My true position, he would certainly have laid hold on Me. He exerted the utmost effort to discover the real situation, but was unsuccessful. God wished him to be ignorant of it.  BHU0044

This servant's hope is that in those regions, in a short time, souls will arise who will compose treatises and writings proving the Cause of God with utmost eloquence and fluency and the ultimate power and might   AB03963

Our purpose in such utterances has never been and is not anything save the protection and preservation of souls, the exaltation of the blessed word of trustworthiness, and the elevation of the station of religion.  BH06760

The friends should not gather in large numbers in one place, for the ill-wishers are extremely hostile and lying in wait. As soon as they see several people together, they become suspicious and resort to slander.   AB11636

You must certainly strive with all your might to make clear that this history of Haji Mirza Jani has been poisoned and distorted, and that the Azalis conspired with Edward Browne to introduce these calumnies and intrigues  AB06329

O ye members of the shining assembly! Each one of you must resist doubts (or false rumors) in those parts like unto a great barrier, until the invisible confirmations may appear and merciful assistance may become manifest.  AB03619

They had heard many things which were not true, and I wanted to dispel those wrong notions- thus they may realize that even in the realm of philosophy and scientific attainments the followers of this Cause are not deficient.   ABU1103

A few foxes have taken to prancing about in the field and plain, and several hyenas have fallen upon the sheep of God. Since thou art a lion, thou must make an attack and show forth thy might, and drive away these weak animals  AB08803

Be vigilant in all regions regarding the Cause of God, lest any matter arise that might cause harm to the loved ones of that land, for these souls are known by the name of God and their protection is necessary in all circumstances.  BH02386

Hereafter, if any Persian or Oriental come to those parts, even though he be from the very city of Akka, if ye find he does not possess a letter written by the hand and sealed by the seal of Abdul-Baha, you must decidedly avoid him.  AB11108

The sheikh of Islam, of Caucasia, wrote against the Cause. Some of the friends answered him. Sheikh of Islam wrote a second time a criticism. After that, Agha Mirza Abul-Fazl wrote a full, convincing answer. It surprised the sheikh.   ABU0594

If possible, you yourself should travel to that area and, with the utmost kindness and affection, block this breach of loss and strive to awaken them, answering the contents of the papers of doubts so that no one else can make inroads   AB02835

form a group of knowledgeable friends to respond to the fabrications of these souls. This will cause the friends to gain proficiency in the teachings, glad-tidings and answering doubts, and to progress in degrees of knowledge and understanding   AB03380

If he is God, whatever he does is right. If he is false, whatever he does is also false - even though he may not marry. There are religious devotees in India who do not marry at all. Is this a proof of their truth? This is the essential (proof)  ABU2190

Regarding the treatise (or pamphlet) which thou didst compile in proof of the appearance of the Kingdom of God--thou didst well! I shall read it at a leisure time, and ask God to aid thee in compiling other useful writings in demonstration of God.  AB03254

O God! Assist Your servant Abu'l-Fada'il to prove Your religion, proclaim Your proof, clarify Your evidence, exalt Your Word, repel Your opponents, turn back Your adversaries, silence Your enemies, and confound those who dispute against the Truth   AB11858

Any Persian, whether Baha'i, or belonging to the ancient religions of Persia--in short, any Persian--without carrying in his hand a letter either in my handwriting, or signed with my signature, the believers must not associate with him or speak to him  AB11090

Whosoever desires to know the history of this Cause and its tenets must come to us and not go to those who are predisposed and biased. For if the seeker goes for gaining information to the latter people he will surely deprive himself of the real facts.   ABU3421

His Honor Mirza Abu'l-Fadl has written a treatise answering the criticisms of a London preacher. Each one of you should have a copy. Read, memorize and reflect upon it. Then, when accusations and criticisms are advanced by those unfavorable to the Cause, you will be well armed.   ABU0554

Say: Were all the clergy and mystics on earth, and all the kings and emperors, to be gathered, I would stand before them and recite the verses of God, the king, the glorious, the wise. I am he who fears no one, even should all who are in the heavens and the earth assemble against me.  BH03710

When these Yahyayi Babis, who are the enemies of the Baha'is, commit any shameful act, they accuse the Baha'is, and the ill-wishers cry out that all are corrupt. But the truth will not remain hidden - it must surely become evident and manifest. Therefore do not tremble at these calumnies   AB01483

Our methods are different, we do not attack, neither calumninate; we do not wish to dispute with them; we bring forth proofs and arguments; we invite them to confute our statements. They cannot answer us, but instead, they write all they can think of against the Divine Messenger, Baha'u'llah.  ABU0181

As for my own letters, they are of no importance except for some detailed letters written to dispel people's delusions or journalists' fabrications or to clarify the spurious content of certain books and treatises written in rejection of this Cause - there would be no harm in publishing such letters.   AB11825

O Ali! Exert the utmost endeavor and guard the edifice of the Cause from the thieves. Consider the physical house: if slumber overtaketh its guardians, assuredly the thieves will enter and intrude. However, if the guardians remain engaged in their watch and protection, the thieves shall never gain access.   BH00718

When, O my God, I had taken my station facing the Spot around which circle those that are nigh unto Thee, lo, there was before me a written letter, a guarded tablet, and an outspread roll containing cogent proofs, clear testimonies and lucid evidences in refutation of one who had striven to repudiate Thy truth.  AB03562

Now you should immediately write a healing and sufficient response to his doubts so that it may be printed and distributed. And as for the Most Holy Book of the Bayan, it is being sent with Jinab Aqa Abdul-Husayn. You must definitely write responses to the doubts of the followers of Yahya with texts from the Bayan.   AB02624

My purpose is this: That his honor Mirza Abul Fazl has written a treatise answering the criticisms of a London preacher. It is published in Chicago; each one of you should have a copy of that book, and read, memorize and ponder over it. Then when anybody advances any accusations or criticisms, you will be well armed.  ABU1952

But the friends must be aware and alert, and eschew the company of such masters of deceit, and if they see someone who has supporters and followers, they must exercise great care and find out what plans are in his heart and what ambitions motivate his mind, since these people have no motive but to infiltrate the Faith.   ABU1268

Regarding the new book that has been written in rejection of God and His Manifestations, you had requested permission to write a response. This is very appropriate. When someone from among the doubtful commits such an excess, people of fairness must strive to dispel his tyranny. Write a convincing and complete response.   AB00768

Some distinguished people think that by giving currency to tales and legends the Cause of the Baha'is can be discredited. Amongst them is this person, who, encouraged by some wealthy Persians in Egypt and hoping for support from known and unknown, has recently devised to write a history in order to cast aspersions on Baha'is  AB12280

Therefore the firm and steadfast friends must be ready and prepared so that if the Holy Land becomes disordered, they may protect the Cause of God, gather together the loved ones of God, and raise high the Word of God until all the world awakens - so that no weakness may come to the Cause of God from the turmoil in the Holy Land.  AB02244

Before the faces of princes and divines, We have, with the pen of justice and utterance, struck at the swords of tyranny and rebellion, and We have been and continue to be like a brilliant and manifest light. Should the entire world unite and rise up to harm the Truth, it would be and is absolute nothingness. Verily, We fear no one.  BH01511

The books of Sijjin have become the cause of humiliation in all regions, therefore I assigned His Honor Abu'l-Fadl to write a response, and truly with utmost effort he is occupied in writing the response. Soon, through the confirmation of the Abha Kingdom, I hope that the written response will be completed and distributed in all regions.   AB11720

Though not wearing the garb of the people of learning, We have again and again faced and reasoned with men of great scholarship in both Nur and Mazindaran, and have succeeded in persuading them of the truth of this Revelation. We never flinched in Our determination; We never hesitated to accept the challenge from whatever direction it came.  BHU0002

Thus it became necessary that an articulate response, a clear exposition, and a brilliant proof be established against the cawing of the cawer... Although the Blessed Beauty with the Most Exalted Pen in the Most Glorious Kingdom wrote a convincing response to Muhammad Khan - a response that cut off his tongue and made his speech mute forever   AB11669

The previous publications caused no harm to the Cause of God, and I hope that, on the contrary, they will yield positive results. We harbor no ill feelings toward him; rather, we have guided all to kindness and non-interference. Even now, whatever he may write in his new book will cause us no harm, though it may ultimately lead to his own regret.  AB01908

The editor of this newspaper wished to cast aspersions of corruption, yet praise be to God, he published in the very newspaper itself a letter which is the foundation of reform and reconciliation. Read that letter to people and translate it for them. For any fair-minded person it is sufficient proof that the servants of Baha'u'llah are the mercy of the Lord.  AB12278

Dr. Wilson, a priest in Iran who is heedless and hostile to the Cause of God, has authored a book to mislead people, similar to books written against Christ during and after Christ's time by the Pharisees and Roman scholars...Now the best course of action is for you to author a rebuttal to that book with utmost eloquence and excellence, print it and publish it  AB02955

By God the Truth, the words of God have never been and shall never be confused with those of others. Yes, since he knew people to be content with mere conjecture and imitation, he therefore wrote words which, by God besides Whom there is no other God, any person of insight would, upon comprehending even a single passage thereof, never pay any attention to them.  BH00814

As previously mentioned, you should accomplish your task step by step with utmost caution, care and calm, lest this matter should create alarm and perturbation in the hearts of the people who, being ignorant of the actual facts, would conceive the idea of a large organisation. Then the mischief-makers would engage in intrigues and a great commotion would ensue.  AB07567

And regarding refuting the external fabrications and proving the alteration of the book, you must render a distinguished service at the Divine Threshold. Your honor, along with all the capable friends, must unite on this matter. Include Mr. Samandar as a partner in this matter so that everyone's knowledge can be gathered and a healing, sufficient response can be written.   AB03969

Would I not be responsible to Baha'u'llah if I stand aloof and do not stop the man who with an axe in his hand is trying to undermine the foundation of the religion of God? Should I utter no word and approve his destructive work? I am not interfering with the dictates of his conscience. I simply say if he desires to be a laborer in this edifice he must build and not destroy.   ABU0368

Any Iranian or non-Iranian person who comes from the East without having a letter from me bearing my signature, even if they are among my relatives, the friends must absolutely not accept them nor allow them into their gatherings. For wolves will come from Iran to those regions to tear apart the divine sheep and cause corruption and discord, especially those associated with Mirza Yahya.   AB01202

The Hands of the Cause of God must strive night and day to utterly demolish these calumnies, else the satans lie in wait, and the wolves of malice, in fellowship with every heedless soul, secretly whisper their promptings. Even as they have turned Brown upside down, ere long that hapless one shall discover that following such irreligious souls yielded no mighty gain, but rather manifest loss.   AB00101

Half of this person's book consists of fabrications and he has altered and changed many words. Soon he will find himself in manifest loss. In Azerbaijan, with perfect wisdom spread word that this person's writings were purely intended as slander. If you want the truth of this matter, the books and treatises of proofs are available - observe that none of these fabrications are mentioned in them.   AB00507

Iscariot must not be forgotten; the Divine sheep must constantly be guarded against devouring wolves; the light of the Cause of God must be protected from contrary winds by means of a chimney; the oppressed fowls must be shielded against the birds of prey; blooming roses should be saved from the outstretched hands of injustice and the lambs of God must be fortified against the fierce ravenous animals.  AB05591

It is my hope that thou mayest succeed in writing thy book. However, the language should be moderate, tempered, and infinitely courteous. Look not at the language used by that hostile writer, for he was prejudiced and unrefined. Any person with the slightest degree of fairness will understand that his writing is totally biased and inspired by enmity. This is enough proof that what he hath written is spurious.   AB05283

These souls are the protectors of the Cause of God on earth, who shall preserve its beauty from the obscuring dust stirred up by every rejected disbeliever. In the path of their Lord they shall not fear for their lives; rather will they sacrifice their all in their eagerness to behold the face of their Well-Beloved and His exaltation in this Name, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, the All-Glorious, the Most Holy.  BH00007

All opponents know that we prove Christ's Prophethood to the Jews with proofs and evidences, establish the universal Prophethood of Muhammad to the Christians with rational, traditional and conclusive proofs, and demonstrate to the Zoroastrians with clear evidence the Prophethood of all Prophets and Messengers from Adam to the Seal, sacrificing our lives in the path of the Prophets and crying out under the sword.   AB00283

How can it be imagined that we - the father, mother and brother - would travel a distance of ninety stages with all hardship and difficulty, and bear heavy expenses, only to bring - God forbid - strange men with us and dishonor our sheltered daughter and have them beat her and punch her and violate her sanctity? Can any rational person imagine this? By God, by God, by God, all of this is pure fabrication and invention.  AB05033

None should acknowledge that which he possesseth, for the protection of those who have turned towards the Countenance - a command from the presence of One mighty and powerful... O concourse of loved ones! Conceal the pearls of divine knowledge from the eyes of the treacherous ones. None should acknowledge the Cause of God before the faces of those through whose tyranny the dwellers of the Most Exalted Paradise did lament   BH02772

Through his and his master's decree, the horizon of treachery hath appeared and the dawning-place of falsehood and calumny hath become manifest. Among other things he hath said that someone went to 'Akka and returned saying "Praise be to God, I am relieved." He said "I asked what this enigmatic statement meant." The man related "I went to 'Akka and attained the presence. For four hours they attempted to write two lines but could not."   BH00461

However, divine wisdom continues to prevail, for today it is beloved that such souls protect themselves. For if all were to be consumed, who would remain to propagate His Cause? Though He could indeed raise up whomsoever He wishes through His sovereignty, We have ordained that each soul should teach with wisdom, lest that befall him which befits not these days. In brief, the protection of such souls is today counted as victory before God.  BH01773

The matter is now beyond their criticism and rebuke...These refutations which are being launched out against the Cause are like unto the work of the gardener who lops off the lower branches of a tree and clears the ground from thorns and underbushes. This will cause the growth of the tree. Although outwardly the lopping of the branches may be considered as afflicting wounds to the tree, yet in reality, they will speed along its development.  ABU0480

However, in truth, if a soul were to be found who harbored doubts due to the intimations of the polytheists, it would surely be appreciated were he to mention his doubts, for we in this land have no occupation and stand ready, should anyone experience any doubt, to provide an answer according to our station and capacity and his station, that perchance through divine grace his heart might be sanctified from vain imaginings and empty suppositions.  BH00004

Say to the handmaiden of God Mrs. Cochran that the meaning of verse sixteen in chapter fifty-four of Isaiah is this: I have created a soul who, through intense heedlessness, has become proud and arrogant and prepares instruments of destruction, but these instruments will not demolish the divine edifice. Rather, that pickaxe will bring firmness to this foundation. As you observe, how many evil souls desired to overthrow the divine edifice, yet in the end they were disappointed and lost.  AB08178

The Mu'tamid then desired to hold the assembled conference in his own presence so that the actual truth might be disclosed and hearts be at peace. He accordingly sent Him forth from Isfahan with a company of his own mounted bodyguard; but when they reached Murchih-Khar he gave secret orders for His return to Isfahan, where he afforded Him a refuge and asylum in his own roofed private quarters; and not a soul save the confidential and trusty dependents of the Mu'tamid knew aught of the Bab.  AB00003

Whenever appropriate, they should explain to the Ambassador what the Blessed Beauty has said about obedience to kings and loyalty and goodwill toward crowned rulers, especially the prayers He has offered for His Majesty the Sultan and His Majesty the Shah of Iran, so that the truth of the matter becomes clear and evident to the authorities. For enemies both familiar and foreign have risen and will continue to rise with endless calumnies and accusations to completely obscure the truth of the matter.  AB07567

When these are firmly established, private gatherings shall be abolished. However, since public gatherings cannot at present be established in various lands, as they would cause the agitation of the wicked and the interference of the ungodly, there is no objection to establishing private gatherings wherein the number of those present corresponds to the sacred number of the Greatest Name. The purpose of this is to prevent large crowds from gathering, which would cause alarm, distress and the lamentation of the ignorant.  AB01546

O where are they that gaze upon these subtle verses, these exquisite stations, these radiant signs? Where are the sincere ones before their majesty? Where are the monotheists who stand before the City of Beauty? Where are those detached unto the depths of union, and where are they who tread the path of separation? [continues with multiple Where are... challenges] Why do you not fight in the field of struggle? Why do you not recite your verses of challenge like this Youth who stands and rides forth upon the steed of attack?  BB00089

I have observed what thou hadst written with brilliant proofs and radiant evidences concerning the establishment of God's Kingdom and the dawning of the Sun of Truth in perfect brilliance and splendor. God willing, it shall be studied with complete care and attention at the first opportunity. Indeed, the proof is brilliant, the evidence radiant, and the argument conclusive. If the prejudiced would but be fair, upon reading this book from thy pen they would testify that the Promised Beauty was the Educator of the world of existence.  AB11073

The letter they forged in the name of this servant truly degraded that sacred station which should be the source of the light of truth, but has now become the source of fabrications and great slander. Among the divine confirmations was that they investigated at the Baghdad consulate and discovered the truth, not opening their mouths to allegations but investigating and examining secretly with complete composure, privately comparing that letter with Abdu'l-Baha's handwriting, signature and seal. It became clear that it was a fabrication and forgery.   AB00596

We should investigate the truth. Refer to history. You have striven for eleven hundred years. Have you caused the name of Moses to reach Constantinople? If you mention the name there, they say they have never heard of it. The Bible had not reached Damascus. But Christ spread the Bible all over the world and had it translated two hundred times. Can you find a single home in America without a Bible? Who did this? Had Christ not come, the name of Moses would not have reached America. Christ has proven that the Jews are the chosen of God. Only Christ has proved that Daniel, Solomon, Moses, Jeremiah, etc., were all Prophets of God.   ABU0693

Pay no attention to the newspapers. It is better and more pleasant to remain silent about them. If anyone asks about the newspapers, say: How is the person who wrote these corrupt articles? Then recite that verse and say with complete indifference that they do not know and are therefore excused. These articles have no effect. In Iran, the most learned scholars of the age, such as Karim Khan, wrote many refutations, as did others among the most excellent scholars of the time, but in the end it produced the opposite result and became the cause of promotion. The writers of these newspapers cannot even be counted among their students.  AB11204

Through various intrigues and schemes he seduced the notorious Jamalu'd-Din. Outwardly, with complete impartiality, the latter confirmed all these matters, and this corruption had such effect that it became established and accepted by the ministers. He demonstrated that the uprooting and elimination of all this corruption and sedition depended upon and required the execution of this group in 'Akka; otherwise this fire would soon blaze so fiercely that it could not be extinguished. The deliberation, patience, justice and fairness of His Majesty the Sultan, may God support and assist him, prevented and hindered this, or else the corruption would have been most severe.  AB04989

But the Babi chiefs composed treatises against them, and set in order replies according to their own thought. Were these to be discussed in detail it would conduce to prolixity, and our object is the statement of history, not of arguments for believing or rejecting; but of some of the replies the gist is this: that they held the Proof as supreme, and the evidence as outweighing traditions, considering the former as the root and the latter as the branch, and saying, If the branch agree not with the root it serves not as an argument and is unworthy of reliance; for the reported consequence has no right to oppose itself to the established principle, and cannot argue against it.  AB00003

When Sultan Mohamad, the Victor of Constantinople besieged the city and his army was constantly commanding the walls and the fortresses, one of the Greek or Roman generals entered into a cloister and saw a monk is busily writing. He asked him, what are you doing? He said, I am writing an apologetic book against the religion of Mohamad. The general got furious and kicked the monk out of his cloister. 'Get out of here, you idiot! When the banner of Mohammed was waving in Arabia, then it was the time to write a book against his religion but now that the noise of his cannons is reaching our ears you are booming forth behind our walls and fortifications what good thy book will achieve?'   ABU1648

O thou who gazest upon the Kingdom of God! In the days when the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name illumined the horizon of Iraq with the lights of His dawning, all the leaders of the peoples - whether scholars, men of learning, princes or nobles - would present themselves in His holy court and verbally pose their most difficult and complex questions. These would be answered immediately from His pure lips with the most wondrous utterance and perfect exposition. They would then depart in complete contentment, acknowledgment and recognition of the all-encompassing power of the All-Merciful. They would inquire about every branch of conventional and complex knowledge, and from the Mouth of Divine Will would issue, in the clearest terms, the resolution of truth.   AB00125

I know that today none can face me in battle - not from among the sincere monotheists, nor from the detached who have attained, nor from the foremost of old, nor from the latter-day emigrants, nor from the perfected illumined ones, nor from the striving philosophers, nor from the eloquent Yemenis, nor from the masters of discourse from the Hijaz, nor from the western servants of the sea, nor from the eastern servants of the land, nor from the southern quarter the truthful Muslim servants, nor from the northern quarter the lying, false servants, nor from the possessors of understanding who seek light, nor from the possessors of vision who seek dawn, nor the dwellers in the depths of paradise, nor those who ascend to the heaven of holiness, nor those who enjoy the earthly life with the bounties of paradise, nor those of might and power, nor those who bow down, nor those who profess religion, nor the people of Basra, Damascus, Constantinople, Turkey, Rome, Iraq, Persia, nor anyone, nor anyone among those who dwell upon the earth.  BB00089
You opened your tongue in proof and established clear evidences and decisive arguments for the appearance of the Promised Beauty. You wrote apologetic treatises and spread them throughout all the countries of the world.  AB12837
 
