To be a Baha'i is to be the embodiment of all human virtues.  AB00144

He is a true Bahá’í who striveth by day and by night to progress and advance along the path of human endeavour, whose most cherished desire is so to live and act as to enrich and illuminate the world, whose source of inspiration is the essence of Divine virtue, whose conduct and behaviour is the cause of infinite progress. He should, to the best of his ability, become a source of mercy to all people and of bounty to the whole world. Only when he attaineth unto such perfect gifts can it be said of him that he is a true Bahá’í. For in this holy Dispensation, the crowning glory of bygone ages and cycles, true faith is no mere acknowledgement of the Unity of God, but rather the living of a life that will manifest all the perfections and virtues implied in such belief.  AB00171

He whose deeds do not accord with his words is not a true Baha'i.  ABU2799

The real, true Baha'is are the seeing, the perceptive, the knowing  ABU3332

Every soul who in this Day manifesteth spiritual qualities is accounted among the people of Baha.   BH08715

If the people ask thee whether thou art English or French, tell them I am a Baha'i.  ABU2718

"When they see each other, they must feel the vibration of the heat. That is the condition of being a Baha'i."  ABU1475

These souls are Baha'is, they are divine, they are luminous, they are of the All-Merciful. They cast no shadow, but are rather light from head to foot.  AB04292

According to our faith whosoever investigates independently the reality, he is a Baha'i, although he may not know this himself.   ABU0763

This movement is neither a Sect nor a Mohamadan denomination. It is the religion of love and brotherhood toward all humanity.   ABU0878

these deeds must appear from a person who calls himself a Baha'i; otherwise one does not become a Baha'i by merely acknowledging the station of Baha'u'llah.   ABU0956

If a man is named a "Bahai" but his deeds do not assert the fact, what is the use of that? The balance, or standard, is action. A Bahai is to be known by his actions, not only by his words and pretensions.  ABU0714

A person may claim to be a Baha'i or may be known as a Baha'i for all his life and may not know at all what a Baha'i means. Another person may never have heard the name Baha'i and may at the same time practice all the attributes which are necessary to make one a Baha'i. That is why his holiness Christ says, those who are not against us are with us. You must know the tree by its fruits.   ABU0763

"I consider him [Tolstoy] a Baha'i, a real Baha'i, because he lived and acted in accord with the good-pleasure of Baha'u'llah, because he divided all his estate between himself and his farmers."  ABU2934

the man who lives the life according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah is already a Baha'i. On the other hand a man may call himself a Baha'i for fifty years and if he does not live the life he is not a Baha'i.   ABU3033

Question: Are not all Christians Baha'is? Is there any difference?  Answer: When Christians act according to the teachings of Christ, they are called Baha'is. For the foundations of Christianity and the religion of Baha'u'llah are one. ABU0086

a believer cannot prove he is of the faithful simply by announcing himself to be a Baha'i. Only by serving and sacrificing, and by dedication to the needs of others whether they are Baha'is or not, can a Baha'i prove that he is of the people of Baha.  ABU1910

Question: "What is the Baha'i Faith?"  Answer: "Trust in God. Be kind to thy fellowmen. Fill the world with the spirit of Love. The Spirit of Faith in a Baha'i is very strong. His trust is on the Grace of the Holy Spirit."  ABU3416

Even if one is not a believer, one acknowledges that this law is truly like the spirit in the human world. It promotes itself without people becoming believers. For example, previous religious laws were abrogated without people becoming believers. These laws superseded religious law, itself was superseded, and civil law came in place of religious law. ABU1163


Mr. Lawson. Would this idea imply an abandonment of the denominational associations? Abdul Baha. No, no one will give up his affiliation with his own religion, but the point is made they will hold more tenaciously to the fundamental of their own religion. For example, what does the Christian have as an essential basis? It is the basis of divinity. Christ was the Word of God, the spirit of God. In the Baha'i religion this is held too -- this faith, the law of Christ. Such moral precepts as "Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also," and "Love your enemies," are all reproduced here. They are not discarded. (Matt. 5:39) In short, the reality of the religion of Christianity will be held to here, but with insight, not blind belief.  ABU0365


The fundamental basis of the divine religions, having been forgotten, is being reformed and reestablished by the Baha'i movement. It is a reformation. The basis of the divine religions is one. It is not multiple, for reality is one and not multiple. The fundamental basis of all divine religions is one and the same. In that sense the Baha'i movement is not a new religion.   ABU0365

If a soul is not severed, if he is not pure and holy, if he is not thoughtful of others, if he is not radiant, if he is not divine, if he is not god-like and celestial, -- no one can say he is a Baha'i. It will be only a name and not the reality.  ABU3277

A student of the modern methods of the higher criticism asked Abdu'l-Baha if he would do well to continue in the church with which he had been associated all his life, and whose language was full of meaning to him. Abdu'l-Baha answered: "You must not dissociate yourself from it. Know this; the Kingdom of God is not in any Society; some seekers go through many Societies as a traveller goes through many cities till he reach his destination. If you belong to a Society already do not forsake your brothers. You can be a Baha'i-Christian, a Baha'i-Freemason, a Baha'i-Jew, a Baha'i-Muhammadan. The number nine contains eight, and seven, and all the other numbers, and does not deny any of them. Do not distress or deny anyone by saying 'He is not a Baha'i!' He will be known by his deeds. There are no secrets among Baha'is; a Baha'i does not hide anything."   ABU2303

Thou hast asked whether to enlist in the Socialist party.  The Baha'ís must be in the Baha'í Cause which comprehends all the degrees and is perfect from every standpoint. AB11555

They must become Baha'is. That only their idea that Baha'is are good is not enough. People are ignorant, they must become wise; they are blind, they must have sight; they are deaf, they must find hearing; they are sick, they must be treated; their children must arrive at maturity; they are earthly, they must become heavenly,-then they will become Baha'is.   ABU2657

"The Cause of Baha'u'llah embraces all the past Dispensations and manifests all their benefits to human society. It is like a tree that has many strong branches. The Faith of Baha'u'llah contains all the teachings beneficial to the world of humanity and will profit every segment of society."  ABU1991

The Cause of Baha'u'llah is the same as the Cause of Christ. For example this room is now lighted, but some one comes in and turns off the light through his ignorance, and we are steeped in darkness. Then another person coming in and hearing voices and lamentation turns on the lights and the room is again illumined.  ABU3052

The Blessed Beauty has provided the means for the unification of the world of humanity and has removed religious and social conflicts. No longer is a person to be defined by such labels as Jewish or Christian. All are embraced by the effulgence of the Faith, and all dwell beneath the tabernacle of unity.  ABU3293

Today the Baha'i Tree has sprung up from the root of all the former prophetic Trees. To serve this Tree, to irrigate this Tree, is to serve and irrigate all the other Trees.   ABU1089

Q: Kindly ask him as to his own religion. Does he adhere to any particular denomination? Is he a Mussulman, or does he inherit any other religion? A: Being a Baha'i, my affiliation is with all religions.   ABU3639

This Cause is comprehensive. Every community finds the reality of its principles in this Cause. The Baha'i Cause is like a tree and these various communities, or gatherings or societies, are branches. When you compare the tree with the branches you find every branch in the tree, and this is the Baha'i Cause. For example: The real principles of the Masonic Order are found in the Baha'i reality. The principles of Christ are found in the Baha'i Cause, and so are the principles of all other faiths. It comprehends all contrarieties. For example: these ministers of Christian denominations are against the Masonic Order, and the Masonic Order is against the Jesuits. The Baha'i is on good terms with all of these -- there are no quarrels and each person finds all in the Baha'i Cause.  ABU2306

Now it behooves Persians to engage in one more experiment, that is, to act according to the Teachings of the Blessed Beauty. They need not become Baha'is if they do not wish to; they simply need to act according to the Teachings of Baha'u'llah. Were they to do so, they would see what results are obtained in a very short time.  ABU3762

Certainly one may belong to a church, be a member of a Christian society and continue to call one's self a Baha'i, because the teachings of Baha'o'llah in no way conflict with the teachings of Christ. They are in perfect harmony. One accepts the true teachings of all true disciples of God. It is not necessary even to label one's self. One may call one's self a Baha'i and in no way live the life, on the other hand one may live the life and never be known as a Baha'i.   ABU0835

Convey affectionate greetings to all the divine friends in Hamadan, both Jewish and Muslim, and say that the terms "Jewish" and "Muslim" are incomplete expressions. I hope these titles will be completely forgotten and the term "Baha'i" will become everyone's designation, so difference and distinction may be entirely eliminated. All these figurative communities should melt like iron in the furnace of reality from the fire of God's love and be cast in a single mold. If this is done and "Baha'i" is said, these multiple designations are unnecessary - the single designation that testifies to reality, which is the word "Baha'i", suffices.  AB00827

Mr. Lawson: Would this idea imply an abandonment of the denominational associations?  Abdul Baha: No, no one will give up his affiliation with his own religion, but the point is made they will hold more tenaciously to the fundamental of their own religion. For example, what does the Christian have as an essential basis? It is the basis of divinity. Christ was the Word of God, the spirit of God. In the Baha'i religion this is held too -- this faith, the law of Christ. Such moral precepts as "Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also," and "Love your enemies," are all reproduced here....  Mr. Lawson: A man may join this movement and still retain whatever his original religion may have been? Abdul Baha: Yes.  ABU0365

The Baha'i message is a call to religious unity and not an invitation to a new religion, not a new path to immortality, God forbid! It is the ancient path cleared of the debris of imaginations and superstitions of men, of the debris of strife and misunderstanding and is again made a clear path to the sincere seeker, that he may enter therein in assurance, and find that the Word of God is one Word, though the Speakers were many.  ABU2950

On being a Baha'i He said: "Up to now, to believe was to acknowledge, to make a confession of faith, but in this greatest of all Causes, believing means to have praiseworthy qualities and to perform praiseworthy acts." ABU3506

In name and letter, in the hidden and manifest, in form and garment, in mystery and appearance, in the concealed and revealed, in deed and word and conduct - in all these become truly Baha'i   AB06111

Being a Baha'i means following the divine teachings and walking the path of the people of the Kingdom. One's soul must be Baha'i, not just one's tongue. Being a Baha'i is not easy - it is very difficult.   AB06245

Tell them a Baha'i is a person who is free from all prejudices--racial prejudices, religious prejudices, political prejudices, social prejudices, economic prejudices. A Baha'i is one in whom the human perfections are active.   ABU3501

Any person undergoing the process of purification, know ye of a certainty that he is a Baha'i, otherwise he has only changed his ideas and is a Baha'i in name. All the present communities do only change their ideas, but in the Baha'i Movement it is different.  ABU2016

The Baha'i Movement bestows upon man a new spirit, a new light and a new motion. It enlarges the sphere of thought. It illumines the horizon of the intellect. It expands the arena of comprehension. This is the ultimate goal of human life. This is the fruit of existence. This is the brilliant pearl of cosmic consciousness. This is the shining star of spiritual destiny.  ABU1777

Act in accordance with the counsels of the Lord: that is, rise up in such wise, and with such qualities, as to endow the body of this world with a living soul, and to bring this young child, humanity, to the stage of adulthood. So far as ye are able, ignite a candle of love in every meeting, and with tenderness rejoice and cheer ye every heart. Care for the stranger as for one of your own; show to alien souls the same loving kindness ye bestow upon your faithful friends. Should any come to blows with you, seek to be friends with him; should any stab you to the heart, be ye a healing salve unto his sores; should any taunt and mock at you, meet him with love. Should any heap his blame upon you, praise ye him; should he offer you a deadly poison, give him the choicest honey in exchange; and should he threaten your life, grant him a remedy that will heal him evermore. Should he be pain itself, be ye his medicine; should he be thorns, be ye his roses and sweet herbs. Perchance such ways and words from you will make this darksome world turn bright at last; will make this dusty earth turn heavenly, this devilish prison place become a royal palace of the Lord -- so that war and strife will pass and be no more, and love and trust will pitch their tents on the summits of the world. Such is the essence of God's admonitions; such in sum are the teachings for the Dispensation of Baha. AB00915

You had asked about the belief of 'Abdu'l-Baha. My belief is the oneness of humanity - that is, all created beings are God's sheep and God is the kind Shepherd of these sheep. All people, of whatever religion or creed, are human beings. We have no objection to or quarrel with religions. We simply call all to the oneness of humanity. But all people must drink from the fountain of Baha'u'llah's teachings so that this war and strife and conflict and tribulation may be removed from among humanity.  All people are like diverse birds, but they must gather at this fountain and be satisfied from this spring, and that spring is the teachings of Baha'u'llah. First is the independent investigation of truth, second is the oneness of humanity, third is that religion must be the cause of love and fellowship - if it is not the cause of love and fellowship it has no purpose, fourth is that religion must accord with science, fifth that religious prejudice, sectarian prejudice, racial prejudice and national prejudice destroy the foundation of humanity - all people are God's sheep and of one race and the earth is one homeland, sixth that one must be free of all imitations and hold fast to the foundation of divine religions, seventh is unity of language - one language must be chosen or newly invented that will be universal so that misunderstandings between religions and races and nations will disappear, and likewise the equality of men and women, and likewise the spread of sciences and knowledge, and likewise the union of women and men among all religions and nations, and likewise justice and equity, and likewise political unity and so forth. All humanity must be satisfied from the fountain of these teachings so that the oneness of humanity may raise its banner at the pole of contingent being.  The details of these teachings are many but I have mentioned them briefly and from this summary you can understand the full detail. In any case, today the darkness of the world of nature has encompassed the horizons. Only through the heavenly teachings of Baha'u'llah can humanity be saved from this darkness and become illumined. All these teachings pertain to the world of morals - they do not interfere with any of the religions. The teachings of Baha'u'llah are spiritual, heavenly, luminous, free, freedom of conscience, deliver humanity from the world of dust and bring it to the pure world, are the breathings of the Holy Spirit, are eternal life, are the lights of the Sun of Reality, illumine the world. Do not look at the present - later all matters will become ordered. Christ says these are the days of the wedding feast - during wedding days there is disorder but afterwards order will be established.  AB07457
