The mineral is the lowest form of life, it could not go lower.   ABU3064

Regard this globe. Its divisions are mineral, vegetable and animal. Man is the result of all these; therefore man is the sum of all existence here.  ABU1155

he spoke about the sensitiveness of the plants and how they have a degree of "feeling" according to their environments.  ABU1149

Although sensitivity in plants is slight as compared with that manifested in animals, within their own kingdom they have sensitivity and vegetable spirit.   ABU2758

In the world of existence there are three stages, the mineral, the vegetable, and the animal. In the animal kingdom the most distinguished product is man. These kingdom form an endless chain of existence, and one is merged imperceptibly into the other.  ABU1868

The greatest power in the realm and range of human existence is spirit -- the divine breath which animates and pervades all things. It is manifested throughout creation in different degrees or kingdoms.  ABU0262

The spirit radiates in all the realms of nature according to the receptive degree. In the mineral world the spirit shows itself, but limited to that mineral condition. It is proved through science that the mineral has the power of attraction, the vegetable has the power of growth; life is according to capacity.  ABU0819

When we look at creation, we see that every being possesses perfections. The mineral kingdom has its perfections, the vegetable kingdom has its perfections, but the vegetable world possesses the perfections of the mineral kingdom and additionally has vegetable perfections. Likewise, the animal possesses vegetable perfections and beyond that has animal perfections, until we come to man who is the noblest of all creatures and who combines all shared perfections plus the special human perfection.  ABU0056

You ask about the soul and its multiple stations. People have concluded that it is a single reality which multiplies according to ranks and stations, for it progresses from the lower realm to the higher realm - like the progression of the mineral from the realm of solidity to the realm of growth, and the progression of the plant from the realm of growth to the realm of sensation. When it reaches the human realm it becomes determined and individualized with complete determinations. And when it is baptized by the Holy Spirit, it attains eternal life.  This matter is correct, but what is meant by spirit is existence and life, for existence has a single concept that is not multiple. Existence has ranks, and in each rank it has determination, individuation and special capacity. For example, the mineral, plant, animal and human realms are all in the realm of existence, and none of these realities is deprived of that concept. However, existence has manifestation, emergence and conditions in each of these ranks. In the mineral rank it has a special determination distinguishing it from other determinations and individuations. Then in the plant world it has conditions and manifestation specific to the plant realm, with its own determination and individuation. Then in the animal rank it has conditions, perfections, determination and individuation specific to it alone. And in the human rank, existence has manifestation, radiance and appearance with the greatest power conceivable in the world of thoughts.  AB00709

"The mineral has existence, the vegetable has existence, but the existence of the inferior kingdom as compared with the existence of the human kingdom is as non-existence. Even the mineral is living in relation to its own kingdom: but the mineral kingdom in comparison with the vegetable kingdom is non-existent, and the vegetable with the animal is non-existence."  ABU0681

There are various degrees of sensitiveness in all the Kingdoms of creation.  ABU1149

God created the mineral, the vegetable, the animal, and man. Had He created only man there would be no world.  ABU3102

When one considers the mineral, vegetable, animal and human kingdoms, it is observed that each progresses within its own degree.  ABU2566

The Bounty of God is bestowed upon the mineral, the vegetable, animal, and man, but their life, or essence, is not the Spirit of God.   ABU2034

Life progresses from the mineral kingdom to the vegetable kingdom, from the vegetable to the animal, and from thence to the human kingdom.  ABU0495

"Ignorant people imagine this to be the only world of existence, but there are many, very, very many worlds of existence, many more than we can see."   ABU3370

Beginning with the mineral, the vegetable and the animal, the human follows, being at the end of the descending arc, and therefore the very lowest point of life.  ABU2609

For example, the mineral kingdom in comparison with the vegetable kingdom is lifeless; also the existence of the animal kingdom in comparison with that of the human is death.  AB07139

The three spirits - the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit and the human spirit (that is, the rational soul) - do not return after death to this world of the first creation.  AB04973

These lower kingdoms are not without certain sensibilities, but compared to man they are without sense. There is nothing without life: The spirit is according to its degree in creation.   ABU0475

In the world of existence there are higher and lower stations, and the ranks of the highest heaven and the depths of hell are visible, and the zenith of virtues and the nadir of vices are proven and known.  AB06311


though minerals have existence and life, compared to humans they are utter nonexistence and deprived of life, for when humans transition from life to death they attain mineral existence, thus mineral life is human death   AB01398


Furthermore, spirits progress through all the worlds - just as the mineral spirit ascends to the plant world, the plant spirit to the animal world, and the animal spirit ascends and transfers to the human world. In the same way, the human spirit ascends to divine worlds and higher stations.  ABU1969

For instance, a mineral substance contains life, but this life compared to the life of the vegetable is death; in like manner the life of the vegetable compared to the life of an animal is death; in like manner the life of human beings compared to the life of the children of the Kingdom is death.  AB07834

spirits are divided into animal spirit, human spirit, divine spirit, and heavenly spirit...Beyond these spirits that I have explained and mentioned to you, God has created countless other spirits, including the vegetable spirit, the angelic spirit, the celestial spirit, and the intellectual spirit  AB00479

Behold then with true sight and spiritual vision how the realities of created things exist in different ranks and diverse stations. That which exists in a lower rank cannot comprehend, much less inquire about, that which exists in a rank above it. Consider the ranks of mineral, plant, animal and man.  AB00247

Now if we cast a glance in the mineral Kingdom we see that a piece of ground left without a gardener, thistles and thorns will grow on its surface and weeds and tares abound and the earth looses its fertility... When we look at the animal Kingdom what a difference we find between the domestic and the wild animals!  ABU0605

As to the question concerning the soul, know thou, verily, that "soul" is a term applied to numerous realities, according to the exigencies of the following relations with respect to development in the world of existence: (1) In the mineral kingdom, soul is called "latent force," silently working for the disintegration of the substance of the mineral. (2) In the vegetable kingdom it is called "virtue augmentative" or the power of growth, which attracts and absorbs the delicate materials of inorganic substance found in the mineral kingdom of matter, and transforms them into the condition of growth.... (3) In the animal kingdom it is called "sense perception" or instinct. This term soul, as applied to the animal kingdom, is also a natural quality resulting from the mixture of the elements, and it appears from their mingling and combination, for it is a quality which results from the composition of bodies (organisms), and is dispersed at their decomposition.... (4) In the human world, soul signifies the "rational being" or mind. This has a potential existence before its appearance in human life. It is like unto the existence of a tree within the seed. The existence of the tree within the seed is potential; but when the seed is sown and watered, the signs thereof, its roots and branches, and all of its different qualities, appear. Likewise the "rational soul" has a potential existence before its appearance in the human body, and through the mixture of elements and a wonderful combination, according to the natural order, law, conception and birth, it appears with its identity.... (5) If the angelic aspect becomes more powerful, and the divine power and brightness surround man, then the second birth takes place, and eternal life is found at this point. Man becomes then the noblest among creatures. ABU0185


Once it was said that the plant had a spirit and the spirit of the plant is the name which was given to it. Once it was said that the animal had a spirit, and the spirit of the animal is the sensation which it feels; that is, animals are a composition of the elements. They have feeling and sensation, but no mind (comprehension).  ABU1316

Some people grew and developed with plant life, some groups became alive and animated with animal life, some communities were raised up with human spirit, some became living and vital through the spirit of faith, and some souls were resurrected through the divine spirit. These differences in degrees of life result from differences and variations in reality, capacity and aptitude   AB11846

For instance, a stone is nonexistent in comparison to man, even though it existeth in the mineral condition. The intention of this discourse is that both the ignorant and the wise possess existence, but the existence of the ignorant is like that of a stone, while the existence of the perfect individual resembleth the existence of man. The stone in comparison to man is nonexistent.  AB07480

The mineral kingdom is distinct in its conditions from the vegetable. It is impossible for the mineral to comprehend the powers of the vegetable, which grows and changes from a seed into a flower or tree, drawing its nutriment from earth and air and water. So, again, it is impossible for the vegetable to conceive of the kingdom above it, the animal who powers and senses so entirely transcend its own.   ABU1355


It is evident that man is the highest of God's creatures on the face of the earth. For example, there are certain attributes which are apparent in the mineral kingdom. The vegetable kingdom has the attributes existing in the mineral kingdom with another attribute, which is the power of growth. The animal has the attributes of the mineral and the vegetable kingdoms but with another attribute, which is the power of instinct.  ABU0089

In the mineral kingdom, it appears as the power of attraction, which causes these individual constituents to join together. It is the life force of the mineral, because the mineral in its own station is alive and not dead. In the plant kingdom, the power of growth is the vegetable spirit; and in the animal kingdom, the faculty of sense perception is the animal spirit, which results from the mingling and combination of elements.  ABU0179

When we view the world of creation, we find that all living things may be classified under two aspects of existence. First, they possess bodies composed of material substance common to all -- whether vegetable, animal or human. This is their point of agreement or, as it is philosophically termed, their point of contact. Second, they vary and differ from each other in degree and function -- that is to say, in their respective kingdoms.  ABU0627

Thus there are three classes of beings and each class has its associated species. Man is the most distinguished species in that he combines the perfections of all three classes--that is, he possesses a material body, the power of growth, and the power of sensation. Beyond the mineral, vegetable and animal perfections, however, he also possesses a special perfection of which other created things are bereft, namely, the perfections of the mind.  AB00420

When we say man, we mean one endowed with all the attributes of the contingent beings. These properties are common to all men, i.e. man has the mineral property, yet he has an animal quality. Man has three powers - the power of growth, feeling and intellect. These three powers are called by different names, according to different interpretations, signifying powers. One signifies spirit, soul - the growing soul - the sensitive soul - and the intellectual soul.   ABU0960

The word "spirit" has several different significations, or rather there are several degrees of spirit. Spirit in the vegetable world is the life of plants- the power by virtue of which they grow. Spirit in animals confers the capacity of sensation upon physical bodies compounded of associated elements. By virtue of it animals see, hear, feel, and have other sensations. Spirit in man is the perceiving soul, able to understand the realities of things and predominating over all things else.   ABU0647

In the vegetable kingdom it is the augmentative spirit or power of growth, the animus of life and development in plants, trees and organisms of the floral world. In this degree of its manifestation spirit is unconscious of the powers which qualify the kingdom of the animal. The distinctive virtue or plus of the animal is sense perception; it sees, hears, smells, tastes and feels but is incapable, in turn, of conscious ideation or reflection which characterizes and differentiates the human kingdom.  ABU0262

For example, the invisible molecule first appears in the mineral Kingdom, migrates in all the forms of the Mineral life, and in every form acquires a certain virtue, then having completed its apprenticeship and gained all the experiences pertaining to that world, steps into the vegetable world fully prepared for its new experiences. Slowly and by degrees it travels through the vegetable, and animal, and human Kingdoms, gathering up at every step new experiences, new forms, new images and new virtues.   ABU0371

It was previously explained that all spirits are divided into five categories: the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, the human spirit, the spirit of faith, and the Holy Spirit. The vegetable spirit is the power of growth which results from the interaction of other created things with the seed. The animal spirit is a comprehensive power of the senses that comes into being through the composition and combination of elements, and when this composition dissolves, that power also vanishes and disappears.  AB02018

There are three general classes of creations-mineral, vegetable, and animal. Nothing is outside of these three classes. The mineral is a solid body. Its only power is that it has form; its only virtues are in having this body. The vegetable is distinguished from the mineral because in addition to the virtues contained in the mineral, it has also the power of growth. Then comes the animal kingdom, which possesses the virtues of the other two kingdoms, and in addition to them has the faculty of sensation.  ABU0667


All beings are divided into the mineral, vegetable, animal and human kingdoms. The mineral has the chance to advance in its own kingdom--as coal has the chance to advance into diamonds, it can advance into the highest station in its own kingdom, but it cannot attain a step in the vegetable kingdom, for it has not the power of growth. As to the vegetable kingdom, a plant has the opportunity to reach the highest stage in its own kingdom, but it is not possible to leave its kingdom and enter into that of the animal. And the animal cannot enter the human kingdom.  ABU0584

In the world of existence -- that which is comprehensible -- there are stages of mortality: the first stage is the mineral world, next is the vegetable world. In the latter world the mineral doth exist but with a distinctive feature which is the vegetable characteristic. Likewise in the animal world, the mineral and vegetable characteristics are present and in addition the characteristics of the animal world are to be found, which are the faculties of hearing and of sight. In the human world the characteristics of the mineral, vegetable and animal worlds are found and in addition that of the human kind, namely the intellectual characteristic, which discovereth the realities of things and comprehendeth universal principles.  AB01382

For example, the mineral, plant, animal and human realms are all in the realm of existence, and none of these realities is deprived of that concept. However, existence has manifestation, emergence and conditions in each of these ranks. In the mineral rank it has a special determination distinguishing it from other determinations and individuations. Then in the plant world it has conditions and manifestation specific to the plant realm, with its own determination and individuation. Then in the animal rank it has conditions, perfections, determination and individuation specific to it alone. And in the human rank, existence has manifestation, radiance and appearance with the greatest power conceivable in the world of thoughts.  AB00709

The expression of manifestation through four descriptions is outward, and God the Most High hath no description save through His deeds. Though the way of knowing Him is through the breaths of creation, it is confined to eight worlds in succession, and these are their universals: First, the world of the Point, the Alif, the Letters and the Word - this is the world of Muhammad and his household. Second, the world of the Prophets and Trustees. Third, the world of man. Fourth, the world of the jinn. Fifth, the world of angels and devils. Sixth, the world of animals. Seventh, the world of plants. Eighth, the world of minerals. The description of each subsequent world describes the nature of the world before it unto the end of its station. BB00098

"If we look with a perceiving eye upon the world of creation, we find that all existing things may be classified as follows: first, mineral -- that is to say, matter or substance appearing in various forms of composition; second, vegetable -- possessing the virtues of the mineral plus the power of augmentation or growth, indicating a degree higher and more specialized than the mineral; third, animal -- possessing the attributes of the mineral and vegetable plus the power of sense perception; fourth, human -- the highest specialized organism of visible creation, embodying the qualities of the mineral, vegetable and animal plus an ideal endowment absolutely absent in the lower kingdoms -- the power of intellectual investigation into the mysteries of outer phenomena."  ABU0145

Now as to what thou askest concerning the spirit and its "return" to this world of humanity and this elemental space: Know that spirit in general is divided into five sorts--the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, the human spirit, the spirit of faith, and the divine spirit of sanctity. The vegetable spirit is the virtue augmentative, or growing or vegetative faculty, which results from the admixture of the simple elements, with the co-operation of water, air and heat. The animal spirit is the virtue perceptive resulting from the admixture and absorption of the vital elements generated in the heart, which apprehend sense-impressions. The human spirit consists of the rational, or logical, reasoning faculty, which apprehends general ideas and things intelligible and perceptible.   AB00460


The glory and eminence of every created thing depends upon certain conditions and is related to specific qualities. The excellence, beauty and perfection of the earth lie in its becoming verdant and luxuriant through the bounty of the vernal rain, in plants sprouting forth, in flowers and herbs blooming, in trees becoming fruitful and laden with fresh and tender fruit, in gardens being formed, in meadows becoming adorned, in fields and mountains donning garments of green, and in gardens, plains, cities and villages becoming beautified. This is the happiness of the mineral world. The highest eminence and perfection of the vegetable world, however, consists in a tree growing by the water's edge beside a gentle stream, caressed by gentle breezes and warmed by the sun, tended by a gardener's care, growing day by day, yielding fruit. The glory of the animal world lies in possessing perfect members, organs and powers, with all needs met and provided for - this is the ultimate dignity, honor and elevation possible to it.  AB00476

Know that in general there are five kinds of spirit. First is the vegetable spirit, which is the power that results from the composition and combination of the elements according to the wisdom and decree of the Most High, and from their mutual arrangement, their influence upon and their interconnection with other created things. When these parts and elements are separated, the associated power of growth likewise ceases to exist. After this is the animal spirit, which also results from the combination of elements that are brought together in a single composition. But this composition is more complete, and when by the decree of the almighty Lord it reaches a fuller degree of combination, the animal spirit, which consists in the power of the senses, comes to exist. This power perceives sensible realities--that which can be seen, heard, tasted, smelled or touched. As to the human spirit, its likeness is that of a glass and the bounty of the sun. That is, the body of man, which is composed of the elements, is the most perfect form of composition and combination, the soundest arrangement, the noblest composition, and the most perfect of all existing things.   AB00266

Know thou that spirits are divided into the animal spirit, the human spirit, the divine spirit, and the heavenly spirit. As for the animal spirit, which is shared between man and animal, it is perishable in itself and becomes non-existent when bodies perish and forms dissolve, for it is of material elements. Since its substance is subject to non-existence and changeable through the passage of time, it must inevitably perish. The human spirit, which is the rational soul that distinguishes man from animal, is not of the physical elements but rather of spiritual substance that is not subject to corruption. It is tormented when veiled from God, its Lord, and prevented from beholding its Creator and perceiving His signs in the worlds of souls and horizons. It has the power to comprehend all things and encompasses the realities of all contingent beings as they are, should it turn to the center of guidance among the concourse of creation; otherwise it descends into the depths of ignorance and blindness and falls to the lowest levels of error and misguidance. The divine spirit, which is of God's command, represents the holy power, divine confirmations, heavenly assistance, divine knowledge, and celestial sciences with which God aids whomsoever He willeth among His righteous servants. Through it they attain mystic revelations and undoubted visions, win the complete preceding mercy and abundant grace, enter the garden of oneness and the divine paradise, and rejoice and delight in what God hath given them of His bounty, thanking Him for His favors and blessings. As for the heavenly spirit, it is a holy essence, a perfect word, a complete sign, the mystery of existence, and the reality hidden from the eyes of all beings. It is the Supreme Pen, the Most Merciful Soul, and the manifestation of Truth from the dawning-place of creation and its sun at the point of invention. This is specifically for the Prophets in the worlds of creation. Besides these spirits which I have explained and mentioned to thee, God hath created spirits beyond count or reckoning, including the vegetable spirit, the celestial spirit, the spirit of might, and the intellectual spirit. Likewise, among the Prophets there are shared spirits and specific spirits, such as the Faithful Spirit which is specific to the Most Exalted Word and the Supreme Pen, Muhammad, the Messenger of God, peace be upon Him, as God the Exalted said: "The Faithful Spirit descended upon thy heart." However, were we to explain this, pages would not suffice nor could ears bear to hear it, therefore we conclude our words at this point and consider it sufficient. BH01497


There are seven general stages. The first is the stage of the inorganic being. From the mineral kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the plant…, and from the plant kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the animal….When it reacheth the stage of soul, spirit, and mind, then in accordance with that stage, it hath a death which will certainly destroy all privative aspects. Finally, the command will reach the stage of the inmost heart, which is the gulf of immortality and pure life, in the presence of the Lord of creation. There, for evermore, the servant will gaze towards God.  BB00613

We shall speak briefly and say that all created things possess life, but the life of each creation is according to its capacity. For example, in the mineral kingdom there is life, but it is exceedingly weak, like the embryo in the mother's womb which, though possessing a spirit, is very feeble. When thou considerest the vegetable kingdom, thou seest that it too hath life, but stronger than that of the mineral kingdom. And likewise in the animal kingdom, life manifesteth itself more abundantly than in the vegetable kingdom.  ABU0085

When we look with the eye of truth upon all created things, we observe that every created thing possesseth life. In ancient philosophy it was held that mineral matter was lifeless, but through profound investigation it hath now been established that minerals too possess life, and scientific proofs in modern philosophy have been advanced to demonstrate this.  ABU0085

Although sensitivity in plants is slight as compared with that manifested in animals, within their own kingdom they have sensitivity and vegetable spirit.   ABU2758

Consider the degrees and kingdoms of contingent beings: from mineral substances to vegetable substances, from vegetable substances to animal substances, and from animal substances to the rational human reality.  AB00282



