
Awaken, awaken! And become detached, become detached from demons and evil spirits. AB10441

Regarding what thou hadst written about the evil eye - this is superstition. The effect lies in the souls, not in the glances, and the influence is in the hearts, not in the eyes.  AB02689

Q. Why and how is it that evil or unseen forces have the power to control one's affairs and why is it permissible for those forces to influence a person in any direction?  A. This is but the imagination of mankind.  ABU3641

There are no earthbound souls. When the souls that are not good die, they go entirely away from this earth and so cannot influence anyone. They are spiritually dead. Their thoughts can have influence only while they are alive on the earth.  ABU3101

In regard to the dominance of evil spirits about which you inquired - how can evil spirits, who are deprived of eternal life, have any influence? However, holy souls, since eternal life is assured for them, their outpourings exist in all divine worlds.   AB00075

There is no power exercised over the people by those evil souls that have passed away. Good is stronger than evil, and even when alive they had very little power. How much less have they after they are dead, and besides they are nowhere near this planet.  ABU1809

The jinn refers to imperceptible forces which influence human souls, and the word jinn in Arabic means hidden, that is, realities and forces which cannot be seen. Likewise devils and what people imagine are mere superstitions and have no existence whatsoever.  AB02401

Superstition hath somewhat overcome her. When the imagined Satan overpowers, let her say: "O Baha-el-ABHA!" She should then turn to the highest Kingdom. Thus will the imagined Satan leave her. [She] has a form of obsession; therefore, you may not heed her sayings.   AB02627

regarding the matter of jinn, ghoul and al [spirits], what is revealed in the heavenly books has meaning, but what is in the mouths of common people is all pure fantasy. By jinn is meant hidden souls whose faith or denial is not apparent or witnessed. The Bab says: "The jinn is one in whom the fire of denial is hidden." And as for ghoul and al, what is meant by these are manifestations of heedlessness and error  AB00767

As for what was written about the evil eye... you had asked whether the evil eye has any effect. There is no such effect in the eye itself, but there is consummate wisdom in the influence and impressions between souls. This is in general, but steadfast and firm souls are protected from this occurrence. And if someone experiences any imagination or effect, they should repeat "Ya Allah'u'l-Mustaghath" ninety-five times.  AB00548
