You forsook your own comfort and rest and sacrificed your life and wealth in the love of God.  AB06896

How sweet then is that moment when a true lover sacrifices his life in the path of the Beloved   AB05513

Seek not a moment's rest nor ask for comfort. Open thy tongue and turn to the Abha Kingdom and present proofs.   AB05892

Through his zeal, he will sacrifice everything in the path of God, and quaff from the chalice of eternal life.   AB04610

Let every soul make the sole object and entire concern of his being nothing less than the teaching of the Faith of God  AB09857

Dedicate your lives to the service of the Beloved of Truth and sacrifice all your ambitions in the Path of the Merciful.  ABU0567

you have arisen with heart and soul and, beneath the banner of the Covenant, have devoted yourselves to sacrifice in the path of Baha'u'llah.   AB02978

They gathered on top of a mountain, and made a pact whereby they would consent to bear tribulations, renounce their comfort, and spread guidance.  ABU3730

Consider what the Disciples of His Holiness Christ did by throwing away comfort and rest and devoting all their times to the promotion of the Cause.   ABU2936

for you made such a commitment to serve at the Sacred Threshold with utmost sincerity of heart, self-sacrifice and purity of soul, and with perfect sanctity  AB08387

with the utmost devotion and consecrate your time, night and day, to promote the Word of God, to diffuse the fragrances of God and to guide all the people of the earth   AB06285

"Some of the friends of the All-Merciful have forsaken their physical comfort and ease, and have gone from city to city and village to village diffusing the divine fragrances."  AB04629

The believers of God have accepted this Cause through self-sacrifice. They have given up their lives for it. They have accepted happily chains and fetters in order to promote these Teachings.  ABU2428

He has travelled toward the West, leaving behind his sweet country, and has accepted hardships in Thy Path...He has forsaken rest and composure, tranquility and peacefulness, serenity and calmness  AB02629

Truly I say this beloved of Abdu'l Baha left his native land, turned his back upon the comforts and pleasures of home, accepted the difficulties of travel, and crossed the Pacific and the Atlantic Oceans.  AB03623

Striving meaneth this, that ye should live and move according to the divine counsels and admonitions and be filled with zeal and fervour, that ye should seek no rest and be engaged at all times in service.  AB04003

These souls know no rest - they strive night and day to complete the tasks assigned to them... At every breath they have sacrificed a hundred thousand lives and have not rested for a moment upon the pillow of comfort.  AB01893

We must sacrifice our comfort for Him; sacrifice all our conditions in the pathway of His service. If we do this, our service will be productive of great results. Otherwise God will raise up souls to do this work in our stead.   ABU0436

Our aim is not to rest but to become assisted to serve the Cause no matter where we are. Our purpose is to become enabled to render service at the Holy Threshold. If this is realized it will be very good, otherwise life itself is meaningless.   ABU2481

Praise be to God that the Favors and Bounties of Baha'u'llah have caused the appearance of such friends who are the spreaders of the Glad-tidings and ready at every moment to sacrifice their lives. They think of no other idea save self-sacrifice, they dream of no other thought save self-sacrifice. With heart and soul they are devoted to the Cause.  ABU1148

Day and night we must think and plan how to become more self-sacrificing in the Path of God, how to become more faithful and loyal in the religion of God, how to concentrate all our attentions around the promotion of the Word of God, and how to renounce our will and choose the Will of God. Having attained to this spiritual condition the Divine Confirmations will encircle us...   ABU1234
