Adam is the symbol of the childhood of the race of man. Childhood has not a great capacity, therefore when he put out his hand to take the apple, he had not the capacity to receive such great knowledge as the apple symbolizes. Moses taught only the material things and Christ of the Spiritual. So if Adam attempted the knowledge of Jesus Christ, he was bound to fail. ABU3083

Each Manifestation was alike great in himself, each spoke with the same authority, each alike breathed the spirit of God. The same fundamental truth underlies the doctrines of each. The differences between them were not in themselves, but in the evolutionary stages of the peoples whom they taught. When Christ appeared, the people among whom he came were in a low state of intelligence there was little or no discussion of abstruse questions among them. Buddha, though earlier, came to a part of the world where civilisation was much more advanced, which was ripe in philosophical and metaphysical speculations. Mahomet found wild tribes and hordes of uncivilised barbarians. On the one hand, each of these great teachers had to meet a problem peculiar to himself-that of guiding and satisfying his contemporaries and associates; and, on the other, the condition of the world's advancement in general-the state of communication between different parts of the world-was such that the teachings of each were confined to the people of that region to which they came and for whom they were especially adapted. The progress of the world during the past fifteen hundred years has greatly modified the conditions which prevailed when these teachers were on earth. Man has learned to control the forces of nature and to harness them in his service. All the nations of the world are in constant, easy, and rapid communication: closely united by the telegraph, the telephone, steam and electric locomotion. A World-Teacher appearing now, after so long a lapse of time since the last, and under the changed world-conditions which now prevail, might be expected to be greater than his predecessors; and such he is. He is a World-Teacher in a broader sense than they. His teachings cannot be limited to any nation or race. His problem is to guide and instruct the whole world as it is to-day; his teachings must meet every condition of the world. ABU1396


The Manifestations of God are as the heavenly bodies. All have their appointed place and time of ascension, but the Light they give is the same. If one wishes to look for the sun rising, one does not look always at the same point because that point changes with the seasons. When one sees the sun rise further in the north one recognizes it, though it has risen at a different point.  ABU2108

Mr. Meakin asked, "Are not all the Prophets Manifestations reflecting the Word?"  'Abdu'l-Baha: "Yes, but the Word as reflected in Jesus has a special meaning. The sun shines in all the months, but in July it is brightest. "Speak to Me, Mr. Gregory."  I stated that I was glad to hear this explanation, as the Christians would be glad to know that He had thus spoken of Jesus the Christ. ABU2479

Our Lord said the Muhammadans were accustomed to think Mahomet the greater because of his title "Seal of the Prophets," but in the time of Jesus spirituality and spiritual life was far greater.   ABU3507

The question is that to the Jews Moses is the last, to the Christians it is Christ, to the Muslims it is Muhammad and to the Parsis it is Zoroaster. But their differences are only those of names. If these names are set aside, it is evident that their aim is one.  ABU1619

The Manifestations of God are like so many different mirrors, as They each have Their own distinct individuality, but that which is reflected in these mirrors is one and the same sun. Thus, it is evident that the reality of Christ is different from that of Moses.  AB00477

It has an appearance, emergence, radiance, flame, ray, power, light, influence, arrangement and destiny at each divine dayspring and horizon of the All-Merciful. But in this Manifestation the constellation is divine and all-merciful, and the star is the Most Great Luminary, brilliant, radiant, apparent, evident and glorious.   AB03854

The Manifestations are greater or less in degree according to the Message they are able to reveal. Muhammad was preceded by a Forerunner or Announcer. Before the Manifestation of this Day, as it is the full Reality of Revelation, there were two Heralds, Ahmad and Kazim. It will be a long time before the rise of another Manifestation.   ABU0107

One branch bears fruit and others are not laden so abundantly. All the Prophets are lights, they only differ in degree; they shine like brilliant heavenly bodies, each have their appointed place and time of ascension. Some are like lamps, some like the moon, some like distant stars, and a few are like the sun, shining from one end of the earth to the other. All have the same Light to give, yet they are different in degree.   ABU2524

The other station is that of distinction, which pertaineth to the ranks and conditions of the Holy Manifestations. In this station it is said: We have caused some of these Messengers to excel others. The similitude of this station is like unto the zodiacal signs, wherein the sun hath in each a special influence and different degrees of heat - as in Leo where the sun's heat is most intense, and in Aquarius and Pisces where it is moderate.  AB00940

Know that the attributes of perfection, the outpourings of divine grace, and the effulgences of divine revelation shine resplendent in all the Manifestations of God, but that the all-encompassing Word of God--Christ--and His Most Great Name--Baha'u'llah--have appeared with a revelation beyond all conception. For not only do they possess all the perfections of the former Manifestations, but they also evince beyond those such perfections as to make all others even as their followers.   AB00105

In some ages there hath been a single Soul, and in other times multiple Temples have appeared from the Dayspring of the Cause, as is recorded and evident in all the Books of old and recent times. Were this servant to undertake a detailed exposition, a lengthy volume would need to be written. And if in certain utterances of the Manifestations of the Cause and holy Dawning-places thou perceivest limitation to one, be not veiled thereby but consider the origin of the divine Tree and holy Sapling, for the Cause of God hath ever appeared and shall ever appear without limit or number.  BH00011

The sun hath ever had diverse manifestations and influences. The sun that riseth from the sign of Aquarius is, upon its appearance, effaced before the sun that ariseth from the sign of Leo. Every person of insight observeth countless differences.   BH00372

Christ and Baha'o'llah are mentioned as being One in degree of power.  ABU0252

The Chief of the Israelites had His way, the Star of the Christians had His radiance, the Pride of the Arabs had His commandments, and the Sun of the supreme heaven had His religion and effulgence. The words, deeds, religion, way and commandments of each one were different.  AB00068
