
You may know ten children of one country, in the same school, under the same master, treated and fed in the same way. One of these children may make great progress, others may remain stationary. In the innate nature there are differences of memory, perception and intelligence. There is a superior, a middle and an inferior degree which corresponds to the difference in the fundamental estates of creation. While recognizing the influence of education we must also become acquainted with the innate disposition.   ABU1016

It is clear that human realities differ one from another, that opinions and perceptions vary, and that this divergence of thoughts, opinions, understandings and sentiments among individuals is an essential requirement. For differences of degree in creation are among the essential requirements of existence, which is resolved into countless forms.   AB00063


The ultimate reality is that in the world of existence there are degrees - the degree of imperfection and the degree of perfection. We must strive night and day so that imperfection may be transformed into perfection. For example, children in their childhood do not know, yet they are not deserving of blame. These children must be educated until they reach maturity. These saplings must be nurtured until they bear fruit. This soil must be cleansed so that the seed may yield its blessing. This patient must be treated so that healing may be obtained. No soul should be held in contempt; all humanity must be loved.  ABU0235

Although all existent beings are in their very nature created in ranks or degrees, for capacities are various, nevertheless every individual is born holy and pure, and only thereafter may he become defiled.  AB00398

So in many ways the existence of different degrees is in reality the perfection of harmony and each may attain perfection in its sphere.   ABU3387

As for the good earth, the blessed soil - it brought forth its vegetation by the leave of its Lord. But that which is corrupt bringeth forth naught but that which is worthless.   AB05914

Each soul hath received these outpourings according to its capacity.  AB12671

As capacities differ, the purpose must be to satisfy the degree of hunger  ABU2289

Q. Are the Manifestations limited? A. They are limited only by the capacity of souls to whom They reveal the Word.   ABU3576

I speak according to the demands of the time and the capacity of my listeners.   ABU3480

There would be variety, and differing degrees of attainment, as in this world.   ABU1243

[When I first met the wonderful man whom his followers call "Master," I was deeply impressed with the breadth and liberality of his views, and ventured to call his attention to statements of another tenor, which I had seen. He deprecated them unreservedly, and continued:] "They see from their own standpoint. But these people are pure in heart and simple in spirit; therefore, though not intellectually advanced, they are capable of grasping their portion of truth, for truth is for all. They give it out according to their understanding. " ABU3375

the radiance and effulgence of the Sun of Truth varies according to the capacity of each soul  BH04993

Every bounty is possible to be bestowed according to capacity, worthiness, merit and capability   AB05779

Thus there must be different conditions and stations that the Mercy of God may be appreciated and known.   ABU1333

That child has capacity - if he is properly educated he will achieve success and prosperity in the future.   AB04715

Were unnumbered mirrors to be placed before it, each would, according to its capacity, reflect the splendor of that sun  BB00575

One man may be highly sensitized and responds quickly to all advices and exhortations but another may need sharper measures.  ABU1149

It is the Holy Spirit of God which insures the safety of humanity, for human thoughts differ, human susceptibilities differ.   ABU3406

How strange that those present were asleep while those absent from ten thousand leagues away heard the call and were awakened   AB04770

The blind are deprived of beholding the light of the sun, the deaf receive no share of hearing the melody of the Concourse on High  AB06614

"Some flowers have color and no fragrance. Some have both fragrance and color; some have neither. So it is with the hearts of men."  ABU2124


those who bestow the garment of knowledge and understanding and sew the robe of guidance must consider capacity, capability and worthiness   AB05818

Many a child of ten is sufficiently developed and advanced to receive some teaching, and some are ready for it at the age of eight or nine.  ABU2199

Though both appear in human form, one is like the moon and the other like cattle - such is the difference that exists within the human species!   AB00701

How many a prince turned away from the Truth...And how many a poor one heard and hastened until he reached the shore of the ocean of divine knowledge   BH07753

Today the station of the friends of God and the degrees of remembrance and utterance remain, by reason of mankind's lack of capacity, concealed and hidden   BH07761

The eye is the most finely organized part of the body; the nail is of a coarser fibre. But the body could not be all an eye and the nail is equally necessary.   ABU2886

If everyone lived to be a certain age--the same--the creation would be a machine. It is on account of this difference that we know everything is in the hands of God.   ABU2188

Among them are those who gaze upon Thee, who are submissive unto Thee and humble before Thy Cause, and among them are those who rise up at one time and fall at another   BH09852

Souls possess two types of capacity: one is derived from innate powers and the other is acquired through the education imparted by the Teacher of the world of humanity.  ABU1691

Now there is a child who cannot remember things. It has no mind, no power of understanding. However much it may progress, it will not become like an intelligent person.  ABU1516

Thus it becomes clear that the ocean of generosity is boundless and the Most Holy Outpouring is endless. Yet provisions are apportioned and blessings are according to capacity.  AB04084

Owing to environment, soul-needs differ; rich and poor, wise and ignorant, etc. Environment has its dark side and its light side. Development has its good aspects and bad aspects.  ABU0744

All believers have attained the Heavenly Gift, but each in a different degree. All have arrived at this Great Rolling Ocean, but each one has taken that which will quench his thirst.   ABU3504

When 'Abdu'l-Baha writes tablets, he is calling the souls to a station which they are potentially able to attain. It does not mean that they have attained that station at the time of the writing.  ABU3270

What I have spoken is according to the capacity of the people and the exigency of the time. "The father makes gurgling sounds for the newborn infant, although his wisdom can measure the universe."   ABU3464

And the Day was one and the Light was one and the Manifestation was one and the Call was one, yet souls were at great variance and creation was in ranks differing from each other by a straight line.   AB01761

The sun is always shining upon mines, but all of them do not become gold and silver mines. In every mine neither are diamonds to be found. It depends upon the capacity of the mine to become diamond.   ABU2913

And some souls are like rocks and stones - they catch no ray of light, and even if they remain in contact with fire for a thousand years and associate with flames, they will not ignite or become aflame.  AB05718

"Your creation and your resurrection are but as a single soul." Every soil according to its capacity and worthiness produced its vegetation, yet the bounty was one bounty and the effulgence one effulgence  AB05835

The essence today is to partake of the ocean of divine bounties - one should not look at the size of the vessels. One has taken a handful, another a cup, another a pitcher, and yet another a large vessel.   BH01034

"The people of the world are all divers, they plunge in the deep ocean of existence. Most of them when submerged bring out a few shells filled with mud; whereas others bring out with them peerless pearls."  ABU2354

As for him whose vision hath deviated and whose ears God hath covered with deafness, he findeth no trace of this. Signs and warnings profit not - stone and clay are hardly set ablaze by the heat of sparks.   AB03259

Not every nest is worthy to be the dwelling place of the celestial bird, and not every house and dwelling is befitting for the divine lamp. Rather, not every earthly bird is worthy of the heavenly rose garden.  AB03202

Thus, there are two great blessings in the world of existence: one is innate capacity which is bestowed by the Creator; and the other, acquired perfections which depend upon training by a teacher and educator.  ABU2331

This is the difference between the perfect man and the child. Both have the underlying qualities of simplicity and sincerity -- the child through the power of weakness and the man through the power of strength.   ABU0528

The unfoldment of human happiness depends upon the exercise of the hidden functions of intellect. It is through the Love of God, the Knowledge of God, the spiritual susceptibilities, and the attractions of the heart.   ABU2011

A small child cannot comprehend the laws that govern nature, but this is on account of the immature intellect of that child; when he is grown older and has been educated he too will understand the everlasting truths.   ABU0493

A little child cannot understand or comprehend the words of a man of twenty years. Those who have human minds cannot understand and comprehend the heavenly mind, any more than a child can comprehend a man's mind or words.  ABU1762

Since distinction is in faith and certitude, the one who is more attracted and further aflamed, that person excels the other, be he a man or a woman. This is the distinguishing feature, and the endearing factor lies in this.  AB01957

You find a man will be wakened by a single call. Another is never quickened even if you discharge a cannon! As soon as the ray of the sun shines through crystal it will burn, but if the same ray fall on a stone, no effect is produced.  ABU1331


How many a child, though young in years, is yet mature and sound in judgement! How many an aged person is ignorant and confused! For growth and development depend on one's powers of intellect and reason, not on one's age or length of days.  AB07782

Souls differ in their capacity to receive and manifest the Light of the Spirit. The Blessed Perfection said, 'There are as many ways to God as the breaths of His Human creatures.' Each soul must develop according to its individual capacity.  ABU0321

Difference of capacity in human individuals is fundamental. It is impossible for all to be alike, all to be equal, all to be wise. Baha'u'llah has revealed principles and laws which will accomplish the adjustment of varying human capacities.  ABU0437

"At most some souls are like children who have not reached maturity - we must educate them until they mature; or they are sick - we must treat them until they are cured; or they are ignorant - we must teach them until they become knowledgeable."   ABU0457

Some, like pure soil, brought forth flowers and fragrant herbs from this bounty, while others, like solid rock, remained deprived of this gift - it had no effect and made no impression. For the manifestation of grace and bounty depends on capacity.  AB07562

"He says in the days of the Manifestations of God, when infinite bounty descends, souls each receive according to their capacity and measure. Like rivers which flow according to their capacity, souls receive illumination according to their capability."   ABU1605

How many elderly people are deprived of intelligence and understanding, and how many young children have achieved abundant progress in faith and certitude and knowledge and perfection, becoming centers of wisdom and radiant candles in human gatherings.   AB04404

"The capacities of men differ. If you pour water into two vessels, a large and a small one, though both may be filled one will contain more water than the other. So of men-one may have more truth than another; but the one who has less, may still have truth."  ABU1046

Those men around them who heard their voice were those who were capable and desirous of hearing them... If you speak with a magician about the Zodiac he understands you because he is a learned man; but if you speak of it to a carpenter, he will say it is nonsense.  ABU2100

Not every heart is capable of acting as a repository for divine love. For not every soul is suited for growing wondrous herbs--only the heart of a human being who continues to bear the trustworthiness of the All-Merciful and to give the fruit of wisdom and eloquence.  BH10402

There are two kinds of animate beings. One kind feels the breeze, and receives its benefit as it is passing. The other kind, though in the breeze, receives no breeze therefrom. The more healthy one is (in a good, spiritual condition), the greater will be the benefit.  ABU0694

Each individual perceives with the faculties peculiar to his own evolution. The Manifestation appeared not for all, but for a few. To the simple, as to the great, he is the same: but some see him in one light, some in another, according to their capacities to perceive.   ABU1853

Not every ear was worthy to hear the divine call, and not every eye was fit to behold the lights of His countenance. How many among the learned and the princes among men were deprived of the recognition of the Best Beloved of the world, while the common people attained thereunto.  BH06980

There was a very wise person here, and I asked him, 'How is our friend?' He replied, 'He is unlettered and unrefined.' I asked, 'How is his work?' 'Very profitable,' was the reply. 'And how is your own work,' I inquired. 'I do not know where I will get money for tonight's bread.'   ABU1914

Some possessed a pure reality and were recipients of these universal outpourings, and like luminous crystal the heat of the Sun so influenced their essential nature that they acquired the heat of the ether. Others received but a reflection and a ray, while some were entirely deprived.  AB08113

Now the people that one meets, those who are ready become quickened instantly, as it was stated before, that as soon as the wick of the lamp is touched by the fire it is ignited -- those who have a little capacity are developed by degree, but those who have not any capacity are deprived.  AB08891

Moreover, knowledge is a human attribute but so is ignorance; truthfulness is a human attribute but so is falsehood; and the same holds true of trustworthiness and treachery, justice and tyranny, and so forth. In brief, every perfection and virtue, as well as every vice, is an attribute of man.  AB00420

The other class resembles the man who is sick and incapable of enjoying the blessings and surroundings of the country, or of eating the wholesome foods. Now the food is rich and edible, but the man sick and hence incapable of obtaining nourishment therefrom. Thus he goes back in the same condition as before.  ABU1764

Thus Christ spread the table of his spiritual food and called a great number of people in order to take their portions. Out of these only eleven came and attended the table. And these eleven, how did it happen that they gained from the blessing? It was because they had desired to come and take. They had the appetite!  ABU2476

In beings there are degrees; all are not in the same station. Observe the various characters to be seen and compared, say, among ten children who have received identically the same treatment, training and food. Three degrees will be found, which might be classes as, rapid development, less rapid, and almost stagnant.  ABU2186

Observe that when spirits are attached to bodies, they are distinguished from each other in all aspects - some at the highest level of perception and perfection, others at the lowest degree of deficiency and abasement. Similarly, after their return to divine realms, this distinction and differentiation continues to exist.   AB01050

They have capacities. For instance, one has a capacity for politics, he attempts to become a merchant. He will not be successful, for he hasn't capacity for this. Then one who has the capacity for merchandise interferes in political affairs. He will not be successful here, but if he becomes a merchant he will be confirmed.  ABU0177

These universal outpourings which illuminate and encompass all directions, lighting up East and West - their radiance had no effect on the eyes of the blind, their sweet fragrance did not perfume any nostrils, their wondrous bounty yielded no fruit for the ignorant soul, their precious gift gave no benefit to the base person.  AB06056

In training mankind we must especially keep in mind: 1. The inherent capacity of an individual, the hereditary factor, is an unknown entity for the educator and teacher. 2. Not quite so obscure and mysterious are the moulding powers of the environment in which man grows up, in which he - according to the decree of God - was born.   ABU0376

But in the sight of Abdul-Baha, every soul that believes in the Most Exalted Beauty and is assured of the Blessed Beauty of Abha is accepted, for there are degrees among souls - one must look to the degrees and not expect every perfection from all. All are praiseworthy in their own degrees since they are believers and assured ones.   AB01236


Who hath the power to soar in that exalted atmosphere or to cherish another beloved than Him? We all abide beneath His shadow and seek our portion from the ocean of His grace. However far the gnat may fly, it can never traverse the length and breadth of heaven, and however high the sparrow may soar, it can never attain the tree of immortality.  BH01050

Some of the attributes of those people possessing this capacity are, for example, devotion, attraction towards God, separation from the world. All food is good, and a gift from God, but we must have the appetite to eat it. Suppose the rain is falling in abundance, no good is done by it in a salt desert which only grows thorns and useless plants.  ABU1768

The soul which possesses sight can see in a moment, while the blind never see. An awakened soul is like a precious pearl in the midst of a load of pebbles which have but little value. To some it is given to hear and know the Message of Life in a short time, while others hear and receive nothing even though they make a long stay in this holy place.  ABU1854

This being the case, no argument remains for the remote one against the Absolute Bestower, for according to his own acceptance and seeking has he settled in that station. Otherwise, there is no suspension in the bounty of the Generous One, no cause for distancing from the source of bounty and generosity, no aversion of the Creator from the created without reason.  BH00380

In short, an infinitesimal incident gives happiness to some, and the most inconsequential event makes others sad. In the morning, they are boiling over with the exuberance of joyousness, and in the evening, they have simmered down to the point of despondency and sheer disappointment. This is a sign of the weakness of their characters and the feebleness of their faith.  ABU1296


From an economic standpoint in the law of living there is a great deal of difference. Some are poor, others wealthy; some are wise, others ignorant; some are patient and serene, some impatient and excitable; some are prone to justice, others practice injustice and oppression; some are meek, others arrogant. In brief, there are many points of distinction among humankind.   ABU0387

Now, the differences among mankind are twofold: One is a difference of degree, and this difference is not blameworthy. The other is a difference with respect to faith and certitude, the absence of which is blameworthy; for the soul must have fallen prey to its own lusts and passions to have been deprived of this bounty and bereft of the attractive power of the love of God.  AB01359

Good people are of two kinds,- those who are so by natural goodness of heart, and those who attain to it by an after gift of the Spirit. All those who are truly taught of God, will accept this Truth when presented to them, but as it takes some fruits longer to ripen than others, so some will accept it immediately, and others after a long time of gradually ripening in the Sun.  ABU2000

How can one who is disturbed by mention of divine authority be capable of bearing mention of divinity? Souls who considered themselves among the mighty ones and learned of the Bayan were struck down by mention of divinity - how much more so those souls who were raised in the Dispensation of the Furqan and were afflicted for centuries at the hands of the divines of idle fancy.   BH02623

Capacity and privilege in this Cause are intrinsic. Whosoever has a greater power of speech, whosoever has a greater power of attraction, whosoever has a greater sincerity, will advance, no matter what happens. In other movements, positions are like public offices; but in this Cause the people advance because of their innate qualities,--because their works echo in the hearts of men.   ABU0341

When we consider god has made a stone to be a stone, man to be man, etc., can we say god has shown oppression to a stone, because it is not a man? God has given according to capacity. He has created men with nails and eyes. Can nails say, "I am oppressed because I am not the eye? Can the foot say, "O, God, Thou hast not shown Mercy because I am not the brain?" God has given according to station.   ABU0507

There are certain gifts which God grants after request. There are others which God grants without request. The Lord gave us the eye without our seeking it, for he gave it to us in the matrix of the mother, and there we were not conscious of any supplication for it. He conferred upon us hearing without our seeking it. All the parts and members of the human organism were given it without its asking for them.   ABU1116

Surely human souls differ in their original nature. If several children from the same father and mother are raised in the same school with the same teaching, the same education and the same food and nourishment, some will reach the highest levels of knowledge and understanding, some will be average, and some will learn nothing at all. Thus it becomes clear that differences between people stem from differences in ranks and creation.  AB00060

Souls are diverse: some drink from the pure water of certitude while being detached and independent of all other waters of the earth, while others drink from different springs, and these springs too are various. Consider the Companions of the Apostle of God - may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake. Some were at the highest pinnacle of faith and assurance, while others would at times ascend and at times descend.  BH00628

The capacities of souls are different. Their conditions are various. For example, certain minerals come from the stony regions of the earth. All are minerals, all are produced by the same sun, but one remains a stone while another develops the capacity of a glittering gem or jewel. From one plot of land tulips and hyacinths grow; from another, thorns and thistles. Each plot receives the bounty of the sunshine, but the capacity to receive it is not the same.  ABU0456

In brief, O loved ones of God, though the bounty is infinite, what spiritual benefit or physical gain can come to those who waste it? They are utterly deprived, forbidden, despairing, rejected, tormented and subdued. What fault lies with the morning light if the night-blind bat seeks no shelter save the cavity of endless doubts? What blame attaches to the holy fragrances if the dung beetle finds no pleasure in sweet scents and its nostrils remain unperfumed?  AB01512


It has been witnessed and known that the root of all differences, from the highest realms of meaning to the lowest levels of words, stems from the differences in the forms of mirrors. Each one relates and narrates what exists within itself. For example, observe this very river, which flows in one manner and whose relation to all palaces and edifices is equal, yet each valley receives according to its capacity, and each barrier resists according to its strength.   BH00394

For a child will sooner or later make manifest his natural abilities and gifts. To train his natural abilities in a manner different from this is not right. For it has often been found that certain parents forced their child to study a certain line desired by them for which, however, the child had not natural aptitude. Thus the child lavished years of his life in that line, with no progress whatever. This shows that the child's abilities were adapted to some other line of study.  ABU2502

There is much variance among human souls and great diversity in the potential and capacity of human beings. Some have the ability to be enlightened by the rays of divine unity from the lamp of sanctity but others are more attracted to those who are spiritually deprived. Some are able to breathe in the fragrant breezes of purity and others have dulled senses and cannot enjoy the perfume of the Divine. A few like certain animals, actually prefer to linger over odours which are vile.  AB04982

The Prophets also confirm this view that education has the utmost effect on human beings, but They state that minds and perceptions also differ in their essence and innate nature, and this is self-evident and undeniable. As we observe, children of the same age, homeland, and gender, even from the same family, raised under the training of one person, nevertheless have different minds and perceptions - one progresses rapidly, another learns slowly, and another remains at the lowest level.  AB00142

Ten children of the same age, with equal station of birth, taught in the same school, partaking of the same food, in all respects subject to the same environment, their interests equal and in common, will evidence separate and distinct degrees of capability and advancement; some will be exceedingly intelligent and progressive, some of mediocre ability, others limited and incapable. One may become a learned professor, while another under the same course of education proves dull and stupid.  ABU0293

there are certain souls whose capabilities are very great, having in themselves the latent power of igniting - As soon as they come in touch with a flame they take fire like a torch - others have but little capability like unto a piece of wet wood - they have the power of enkindling, but it may take some time before the wood is dry enough to light. Other souls are like unto the stones, if a stone is put into the fire for a thousand years it will not burn - it has no capability of lighting.  ABU0287

The meaning is that the existence of a heedless person in comparison to the existence of a perfect individual is like being nonexistent. In brief, all souls exist, but the existence of the heedless and the ignorant in comparison to the existence of the perfect and the wise is like nonexistence. The intention of this discourse is that both the ignorant and the wise possess existence, but the existence of the ignorant is like that of a stone, while the existence of the perfect individual resembleth the existence of man.  AB07480

In the world of existence one must look in everything to the capacity and ability. For instance, if a man wishes to attain the art of writing, he must look to himself to see whether he has the ability or not. If a man wishes to teach, he must feel sure that he has the ability. So it is with a captain; he must first realize in himself whether he is fitted for that work or not. In short, every work depends upon capacity and ability, that is man must first see whether he has the ability for working in some profession, or not; without regarding this matter he would at last be disappointed.   ABU1511

With regard to differences in character that are inherited, they arise from the strength and weakness of man's constitution, that is, if the parents are of weak constitution then the children will be likewise, and if they are strong then the children will also be robust. Moreover, the excellence of the bloodline exerts a major influence, for the goodly seed is like the superior stock that exists likewise among plants and animals. For example, you see that children born of a weak and sickly mother and father will naturally have a weak constitution and nerves, will lack patience, endurance, resolution, and perseverance, and will be impulsive, for they have inherited the weakness and frailty of their parents.   AB00117

If a cow should go to a prosperous town, a city full of bounties and divine blessings, and should be asked as to what it had found in this town, it would say, 'Nothing but cucumber peels and melon rinds.' But if a nightingale should fly to a rose garden, when it returns the reply would be, 'Verily, I have scented delicious fragrances, seen most beautiful flowers, most delightful verdure, drunk most refreshing water from gushing fountains; and I have found new life!' Now the reply of a beetle would be, 'All you have heard concerning the rose garden is false. There is neither a delightful fragrance nor beauty of verdure, nor is it joyous. In fact, when I entered it, I was displeased. All you have heard is false. Had I not escaped, I should have died!'  ABU1563


From what source does it come? What are its attributes? What are its characteristic features or aspects? Personality is of two kinds. One is the natural or God-given personality which the western thinkers call individuality, the inner aspect of man which is not subject to change; and the other personality is the result of acquired arts, sciences and virtues with which man is decorated.  ABU0384
