Do not look to your own capacity and worthiness, but rather trust in the favors and confirmations of the Blessed Beauty, for that eternal bounty makes a plant into a blessed tree, and makes a mirage into cool water. It makes a lost particle into the essence of existence, and makes a non-existent ant into a scholar in the school of knowledge. From thorns He causes roses to grow, and from black soil He brings forth precious, fragrant flowers. He turns stone into rubies of Badakhshan, and fills the sea shell with brilliant pearls.   AB00616

Know that the blessings of the Kingdom of Abha are not dependent upon the capacity and the worthiness of any one; the blessings themselves are the worthiness. As the action itself, when it reaches the thing acted upon, makes it (that which is acted upon) the action,--so the blessings themselves then become identical with worthiness. In like manner, when the action itself descends upon the recipient, the recipient becomes the action.  AB00666

do not look to your own capacity and worthiness, but rather look to the endless favors of the Blessed Beauty and rely on the breathings of the Holy Spirit. If the rays of the Sun of Truth shine forth, metaphors become reality, and if that confirmation does not arrive, all realities become metaphor. The meaning is that when divine assistance comes, a drop becomes an ocean, and when assistance is cut off, the sun becomes an atom.   AB02883

Look not to thine own capacity; rather must thou look to the favors of the Blessed Beauty, for His outpourings are endless and His grace and bounty are limitless. He transformeth the sparrow of faithlessness into the nightingale of fidelity, and bestoweth upon the weak ant the throne of Solomon's sovereignty. He maketh the black earth a rose garden, and granteth the sinful servant shelter in the sanctuary of His mercy.  AB00170

From the bounty of this mighty century and the favors of the Manifest Beauty this is not far-fetched. Look not to thine own capacity; rather, consider the divine bounty that can transform a drop into an ocean and make of a gnat a Solomon. He can cause an Ethiopian Bilal to excel over a Qurayshi chief, and make a Qurayshi Abu Lahab assume Ethiopian features. This is not difficult for God.  AB07160

Look not to your own capacity and ability. Rather, look to the grace and bounty of the Ancient Beauty, Who can make an ant into a Solomon, and a drop into a vast ocean, Who can turn an atom into a sun and a mirage into a sweet flowing sea, Who can make black soil full of flowers and plants and a colorless stone into a royal pearl.   AB03338

When I look to my own capacity and capability, I have no hope at all, but when I consider the divine confirmations and indubitable assistances of the Desired One, I see the gnat as an eagle and observe the mosquito with rainbow wings - and this is certain, absolute truth.   AB00163

Do not look to your own capacity, place your trust in the Kingdom of Abha, for the Kingdom of Abha makes an atom into a sun, a drop into an ocean, the weak strong, the ignorant knowing, the blind seeing, the mute speaking, the deaf hearing.  ABU0309

Whatever occurred was His confirmation, else what capacity or power did we possess? Praise be to God, the Mighty Sovereign wages war with the hosts of the near angels and achieves great victories in East and West.   AB01046

Now we must not consider our ability and capacity, nay, rather, we must fix our gaze upon the favors and bounties of God, in these days, Who has made of the drop a sea, and of the atom a sun.  AB00956

Do not look to your own capacity - divine confirmations will reach you. I was a weak imprisoned servant, but divine confirmations arrived.  ABU0318

They should not look to their own capacity, but rather rely and trust in the favors of the Lord of Majesty  AB04783

This is from God's grace and bounty, not from personal capacity and capability.   AB11871

Do not look to your own capacity - look to the divine confirmations.  AB05670

If we look at ourselves, we see only our weakness.  ABU3206

You must not look to your own capacities but to the bounties of the Abha Kingdom  ABU1990

Look not to thine own capacity and capability. Turn thy gaze to the Abha Kingdom   AB06879

Rely not therefore on thy capacities but in the effusive grace of the All Loving Lord  AB06892

do not look to lack of capacity or weakness of ability, for capacity and ability depend upon the bounty of your Lord   AB06567

Do not look upon thyself and thine own capacity...Do not look upon thine own incapability.   ABU2053

Look not to your own power and capacity - consider instead the bestowal of the Ancient Beauty  AB04703

You must not consider your own capabilities. You must consider how great are the favours of God.   ABU2269

in thy conduct, behavior and speech thou shouldst not consider the capacity and worthiness of people   AB07047

Consider not thy capacity and merit, nay rather consider the grace of thy Lord, the Clement, the Merciful.  AB07132

They should not look to their own capacity, but rather rely and trust in the favors of the Lord of Majesty  AB04783

do not look to weakness and inability, but rather gallop in this field through the power of the love of God  AB04572

do not look at your weak body and limited thoughts - look to the favors and bounties of the Lord of the Kingdom  AB04790

One must not look at one's self, for the more he does this, the more he sees his faults and feels guilty and useless.  ABU3206

Thou hast spoken concerning thy lack of ability and capacity. Wert thou without ability and capacity, thou wouldst not have advanced toward the Kingdom of ABHA.   AB07141

If you look to His gifts and bounties, you will become the very essence of hope from head to toe, but if we look to ourselves, we become hopeless and despondent.   AB03338

Do ye not look upon your own capability and merit...Therefore in this glorious Cause we must not consider our own capabilities but rather expect the Graces of God.  ABU1859

if a weak ant should arise with firm resolve, profound effort and mighty endeavor to promote the Faith of God, the ranks of the hosts of the Kingdom will, like an impregnable edifice, support him  AB09397

If a lamp is extinguished and darkened, this has no bearing on the brilliant sun and radiant moon. Keep thy attention and vision fixed upon the sun, not the atom. Gaze upon the ocean, not the drop   AB03029

If we do not like to associate with some people, very well, it is not compulsory. We can let them alone and become so busy with constructive work, that there is no time to waste upon such matters.   ABU3687

Whenever there is any work to be done and I see that physically I am not equal to it, I have just to resolve and supplicate Divine Assistance and arise in its performance. It will be done without delay.  ABU2790

The object which I wish to convey to you is this - you should not look at your capacity or ability, nay, rather, rely upon the confirmation of the Holy Spirit - do not doubt. Be confident and sure. It will help you.   ABU1511

We must not look to our own capacity and ability - we must look to the great confirmations of the Lord of the Kingdom, which through the bounty of rain and the farmer's effort can make a seed into a robust and fruitful tree.   AB01322

Let us not regard our own respective capacities; nay, rather, let us regard forever the favors and bounties of God. The drop must not estimate its own limited capacity; it must realize the volume and sufficiency of the ocean, which ever glorifieth the drop.  ABU0260

It was not given to every star in the heavens to be the first magnitude, but it was given to each star to shine in the position assigned to it, no matter what might be its size or importance. So, not any one of us can do everything, but everyone can do something to cheer, comfort or to encourage someone who is struggling along the pathway of life.   ABU2015

Corporally man is not important, but spiritually he is mighty. The physical side of his life is weak and easily overcome but the ideal side of his life is the all-conquerer. The physical side of man is like an animal but the ideal aspect of his existence is humanistic - Physically man is aggressive, tyrannical, ignorant, overbearing, blood thirsty; - ideally he is just, gentle, wise, patient and benevolent. He is peaceful - he seeks unity - He bestows Life. He is the cause of honour in the world of humanity - He is conducive to progress of mankind.  ABU0163

True friends are even as skilled physicians, and the Teachings of God are as healing balm, a medicine for the conscience of man. They clear the head, so that a man can breathe them in and delight in their sweet fragrance. They waken those who sleep. They bring awareness to the unheeding, and a portion to the outcast, and to the hopeless, hope. Wherefore, look not on the degree of your capacity, ask not if you are worthy of the task: rest ye your hopes on the help and loving-kindness, the favours and bestowals of Baha'u'llah -- may my soul be offered up for His friends!   AB00128
In truth, in all matters and conditions, keep in view that blessed verse which states: Look not upon the creatures and their actions, but upon God and His sovereignty.  AB12836
 
