

In the "Bihar" it is recorded: "In our Qa'im there shall be four signs from four Prophets, Moses, Jesus, Joseph, and Muhammad. The sign from Moses is fear and expectation; from Jesus, that which was spoken of Him; from Joseph, imprisonment and dissimulation; from Muhammad, the revelation of a Book similar to the Qur'an." BH00002

By the righteousness of God! This Wronged One is not capable of dissimulation. He, verily, hath revealed that which He desired; He, truly, is the Lord of strength, the Unrestrained.  BH00005

In that letter mention was made of teaching them. In this matter wisdom is required. Drink thou the sealed wine in the name of the Self-Subsisting in the innermost mystery. Well is it with thee and pleasant it is to thee. In all circumstances We counsel you to wisdom. "Concealment is better than revelation." The people were not and are not worthy. Not every soul was or is worthy of this most pure Kawthar.  BH04701

This year all have been commanded to practice concealment lest clamor be raised among the people.  BH00051

"Observe the word of dissimulation while thou art imprisoned, and grieve not for what hath passed from thee in the path of thy Lord."  BB00287

And he, peace be upon him, said: "Guard your religion and conceal it through dissimulation, for there is no faith for one who has no dissimulation."  And he, peace be upon him, said: "People were commanded two qualities which they have lost, thereby becoming as nothing: patience and concealment."  BB00415

And as the believer from among Pharaoh's people who concealed his faith said: "Will ye slay a man because he saith, my Lord is God?" This concealment is greater than open acknowledgment, for therein lies infinite wisdom.  AB09642

In accordance with the revealed wisdom, We have forbidden all to acknowledge and confess this Cause before the faces of men. All must hold fast to what was said before: "Dissimulation is My religion and the religion of My forebears."  BH05984

The condition of the people of the earth is observed to be so base that the Supreme Pen hath uttered the previous word and reminded His loved ones of the words "Dissimulation is My religion and the religion of My forefathers". Today it behooveth no one to confess before the faces of men. This is a command that hath been sent down anew from God, the Ancient Commander.  BH11375

Regarding smoking in certain gatherings, performing prayers, attending lessons, and associating with some deniers as a form of prudent dissimulation (taqiyyih). It is related from Abu Abdullah, peace be upon him: Prudent dissimulation was established to preserve life, but when blood is at stake, there is no prudent dissimulation. Prudent dissimulation is my religion and the religion of my fathers. Whoever has no prudent dissimulation has no religion.  BB00407

O God! Thou knowest the ruling of dissimulation in the days of concealment, as mentioned by Thy proof speaking with justice, Muhammad ibn 'Ali, peace be upon them both, who said - and his word is truth - that "these teachings of yours cause men's hearts to recoil; who accepts them, give him more, and who denies them, leave him be. There must needs be a trial wherein close companions will fall away, until he who splits a hair in two will fall, until none remain save us and our followers."   BB00157

As to what was previously written regarding the arrival of divine Tablets wherein the command of dissimulation [taqiyyih] was revealed - this is true. After the martyrdom of His Holiness Badi' - upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty of God - who appeared and shone forth from the horizon of power, the command of wisdom [hikmat] was revealed, such that most Tablets were adorned with this command. And after the martyrdom of His Holiness 'Ali from the land of Mim - upon him be all the most glorious Beauty - the command of non-confession ['adam-i-iqrar] was issued. Glory be to God! Those oppressive, heedless souls wished to utter words contrary to truth, yet they [the martyrs] refused and sacrificed their lives with the utmost joy and fragrance. At the time of the revelation of the second command, the Tongue of Grandeur would utter words that would melt the hearts and dissolve stones. At one point He said: The Supreme Pen lamenteth and declareth: "Conceal what ye possess." The oppression of the oppressors and the heedlessness of the heedless have reached such a state that the Supreme Pen spoke the words of one of the former Letters: "Dissimulation is my religion" et cetera. The purpose was to preserve sacred souls.  BH00037

