Diversity is really harmony. If our food were to be all of one kind it would become monotonous.   ABU3387

God created the mineral, the vegetable, the animal, and man. Had He created only man there would be no world.  ABU3102

All are from God but all have different stations. Both men and animals are from God but what a difference there is between them.   ABU1840

This variety in forms and coloring which is manifest in all the kingdoms is according to creative Wisdom and hath a divine purpose  ABU0120

due to the diversity and differences of parts, the multiplication and contrast of the infinite diverse realities of existing things come into being   AB06872

If all men were birds instead of human beings, there would be no minds to comprehend any of His attributes. Thus there must be different conditions and stations   ABU1333

The combination of diverse elements through spiritual force in the contingent world is the cause of the manifestation and emergence of divine perfections and attributes   ABU2988

There are two kinds of differences: one kind is essential and innate differences, which do not prevent the manifestation of general unity and fellowship, but rather support it  ABU2135

Souls are like birds - one is an eagle soaring to the heights of glory, another a white falcon that hunts its prey, another a turtledove of meadow and garden, another a partridge of mountain, desert, tulip field and valley. "And God created souls in diverse kinds."  AB08140

It wouldn't do for all phenomenal beings to be mineral, animal or vegetable--or for all phenomenal beings to be man. For instance, it isn't possible for man to be given all eyes--he must have ears, nose, legs, etc. For if man were only an eye, perfection couldn't become visible in him.   ABU0507

Though the greenness of tree leaves may appear outwardly to be of one hue, yet in their effects and qualities they are so distinct that none save God can enumerate their characteristics. Know that each leaf of every tree has its own effect, and another has a different effect - who has been able to enumerate them and who has encompassed them?  BH01398

The Kingdom of God is also likened unto a garden of trees. We all know that a garden, in order to be beautiful, must contain a good number of trees, various in size and different in colours, flowers, and fruits. Some of the trees are tall and some are short, some bear good and sweet fruits, some sour and some bitter, but all the trees are necessary to form a garden.   ABU0050

Were you to enter a certain garden, and where all the flowers were white in color, or yellow, or all blue, there would be no attraction, but when they are variegated, then it is perfectly charming. In short all the personalities which we possess are admirable, and we hope that the difference of personalities may be that source of attraction which lends charm to this garden.   ABU1936

Created things cannot therefore be realized in a single degree, station, manner, kind, or species: Differences of degree, distinctions in form, and a multiplicity of kinds and species are inevitable. So there must necessarily be mineral, vegetable, animal, and human kingdoms; for through man alone the world of existence could not be adequately arranged, adorned, organized, and perfected.  AB01359

Are the wise and the foolish equal? Or can Canopus and the dim star be the same? Nay! God hath created souls in diverse stages and appointed for each a station and measure. Among them are flies and eagles, weak birds and mighty falcons. Among them are blessed trees bearing delicious fruits and zaqqum trees bearing deadly poison. Among them are delicate shells and crude clay, brilliant gems and black stones.  AB00191

These differences of color are in truth an adornment. If all flowers in a garden were of one color, what fragrance would it have? But if you see a garden where flowers of different colors have bloomed, it appears supremely delicate and beautiful to behold. Likewise if the human world were of one color what distinction would it possess? But differences of color are the cause of the manifestation of the power of the All-Merciful.   AB02583

When we look upon the world of existence, we realize that all material things have a common bond; and yet, on the other hand, there are certain points of distinction between them. For instance, all earthly objects have common bodily ties. The minerals, vegetables and animals have elemental bodies in common with each other. Likewise, they have place in the order of creation. This is the common tie or point of contact between them.   ABU0387
