Creation is an emanation from the creator. It is impossible that the eternal should become limited. Creation is like the sunlight; God is the sun. This light comes forth from the sun; that does not mean that the sun has become the light. The light emanates from the sun.  ABU0766

Helping grace is from that state which is eternal. This grace flows continuously to the temporal. If it should fail, that which is temporal would perish. Therefore the grace of the perfections of God flows forth continuously to the beings of the visible world.  ABU0524

The mighty sun is the source of all physical light and the growth and development of all things depend upon its munificent heat, its radiant emanations. Likewise, spiritual bounty too requires a mighty source, an ancient and eternal origin.  AB05728

That Kind Friend manifested Himself to contingent existence and illumined the horizons with His eternal bounty... Yet His outpourings are everlasting and His effulgences eternal.   AB04026

The hidden divine bounty, however, is everlasting and unchanging, never to be altered or transformed, for it is the eternal outpouring of God and the perpetual gift of the Lord.  AB08215


Glory be to God! The rain-clouds of the All-Glorious pour forth their bounties at every moment  BH07834

The outpourings of the All-Merciful descend successively upon all created things, yet each being receiveth according to its capacity and ability.   ABU0830

The Divine Grace like the rain pours down upon the Earth...His Grace is all-encircling; His Clouds are pouring, and the rays of His Sun are descending.  ABU0287

If we determine a beginning and an end for creation, it is as if we determine a beginning and an end for God. There can be no creator without a creation.   ABU3115

The rain of mercy bestows life upon all created things, even unto the pearls within the seashells of the ocean, which are connected to this boundless grace.  AB09486

The Creator has ever had a creation, and the rays have ever emanated and shone forth from the Sun of Truth, for a lightless sun would be impenetrable darkness.  AB00839

The dawning of the Sun of Truth from the horizon of oneness was for the illumination of the horizons of the human world...His bounty is everlasting and His shower is abundant  AB10970

God has no beginning and his creation has no ending, for the bestowal of God is never failing. The effulgence of God cannot be suspended. The sovereignty of God cannot be interrupted.  ABU0055

The power of God is eternal and there have always been beings to manifest it; that is why we say that the worlds of God are infinite - there has never been a time when they did not exist.  ABU0766

The favors of God, like a boundless ocean, surge over His servants and handmaidens, and like the clouds of spring, cause the garden and meadow of the hearts of those attracted to Him to become fresh and verdant.  AB09573

The light of Beauty hath illumined the horizons of the world and hath bestowed the bounty of the All-Merciful... It shineth from the invisible Kingdom and bestoweth eternal bounty upon the horizons and continueth to do so.   AB05834

I can have no doubt that should the holy breaths of Thy loving-kindness and the breeze of Thy bountiful favour cease, for less than the twinkling of an eye, to breathe over all created things, the entire creation would perish, and all that are in heaven and on earth would be reduced to utter nothingness.  BH00769

It is evident that the Reality of divinity is possessed of infinite grace and that its merciful effulgences have no break or interruption for the divine kingship is eternal and pre-existent and the reference to endless grace and the great universe is clearly not to finite years and limited number of created things.  AB03894

When we observe that in the kingdom of minerals the divine bounties are continuous, how much more shall we expect and realize in the divine spiritual Kingdom! How much greater the radiation of the lights of God and the bounty of everlasting life upon the soul of man! As the body of the universe is continuous, indestructible, the bounties and bestowals of the divine spirit are everlasting.  ABU0041

There is no beginning nor end for the Divine Sovereignty. The purpose is this; that if the physical food be withheld from the body, it causes death. Likewise if the Divine Manifestations come to an end, and the Heavenly Table becomes finished, what then will take place? It is certain that existence will be entirely dispersed. If the rays of the light of the sun cease from the earth for one hour, It will be ruined.  ABU1557

Glory be to God! They desire to prevent the waves of bounty from the ocean of grace, and seek to stop the life-giving breeze from blowing. How far from possible, how far! The cloud of invisible mercy shall not cease its outpouring of grace, and the most luminous Sun shall not be prevented from shining upon land and sea. There is no end to the fruits of the blessed Tree of Tuba, and no cessation to the rustling of the divine Lote-Tree.   AB00617

If the bounties of God should cease existence itself would cease. The darkness of non-existence would then become universal, even as the phenomenal world would perish if the sun that shines upon all phenomena were for one moment to cease shining. If it were reasonable or possible as a hypothesis to suppose that there ever had been a time when the sun had existed without its rays and heat, we should be forced to the conclusion that the sun had never existed, for the essential requirement of the sun is continuous outpouring of light and heat. Likewise, if we assume that there ever had been a time when the bounties of God had had a beginning, we must perforce believe that at one time there had been no divinity; or, if we assume that a time may come when the bounties of God will cease, we must conclude that divinity will sometime cease to exist. But this is impossible, because the essential requirement of divinity is continuous outpouring of bounties, and for the bounties of God there is neither beginning nor ending. God is eternal and his bounties are everlasting.  ABU0045

"The Sun of Reality has eternally been sanctified in its own center of holiness from rising and setting. Its lights are ever-shining, its dawning continuous, and its bounties unceasing."  AB11678

the eternal bounty and merciful manifestation from the All-Glorious One in the contingent world is constant and continuous  AB02999
