
Is the materialistic philosophy of this Europe, so much praised by contemporary agnostics and atheists, a philosophy to be admired? Are these people wooers of the spirit? Nay, they have drowned that capacity and are out of touch with the kingdom of reality. Is this an enviable goal to which humanity may aspire? Is this a system of philosophy through which people may become glorified? No, by God, the philosophy of glory needs no scholastic curriculum.  ABU2415

Reincarnation is a very abstruse question. If one desires to give a satisfactory explanation, one must write a book, so that the real meanings may be fully revealed. This subject can only be explained through divine philosophy, not through mere exposition of theories. Briefly stated, the idea is as follows: -- Man is indestructible. The man you see before your eyes has travelled through all the worlds of existence. Those molecular atoms which go into the make-up of the human body were originally in the mineral world, and these atoms have had journeyings and coursings through all the various phases of the mineral kingdom, appearing under various forms and images. Stepping up into the vegetable kingdom these atoms have been transferred from mineral to vegetable. In the vegetable kingdom they have manifested under various shades, and in a myriad of forms. Rising into a higher scale of life, we see them again in the animal kingdom, expressing themselves through multitudes of forms and images. And now we see these indestructible atoms dawning upon the horizon of man. In the world of man they become evident through many many pictures and forms. In brief these primordial atoms have coursings and transferences in infinite images. In every image they had a certain peculiar virtue. Therefore, these primordial atoms, which have now appeared in man, have had myriads of transferences in phenomena, and in each degree appearing with certain virtue and function. This is a brief statement of reincarnation.  ABU1774


Philosophy is of two kinds: natural and divine. Natural philosophy seeks knowledge of physical verities and explains material phenomena, whereas divine philosophy deals with ideal verities and phenomena of the spirit. The field and scope of natural philosophy have been greatly enlarged, and its accomplishments are most praiseworthy, for it has served humanity. But according to the evidence of present world conditions divine philosophy -- which has for its object the sublimation of human nature, spiritual advancement, heavenly guidance for the development of the human race, attainment to the breaths of the Holy Spirit and knowledge of the verities of God -- has been outdistanced and neglected.  ABU0150

Scientific knowledge is the highest attainment upon the human plane, for science is the discoverer of realities. It is of two kinds: material and spiritual. Material science is the investigation of natural phenomena; divine science is the discovery and realization of spiritual verities. The world of humanity must acquire both. A bird has two wings; it cannot fly with one. Material and spiritual science are the two wings of human uplift and attainment. Both are necessary -- one the natural, the other supernatural; one material, the other divine.  ABU0346

The materialists hold to the opinion that the world of nature is complete. The divine philosophers declare that the world of nature is incomplete. There is a wide difference between the two. The materialists call attention to the perfection of nature, the sun, moon and stars, the trees in their adornment, the whole earth and the sea -- even unimportant phenomena revealing the most perfect symmetry.  ABU0109

Later it became clear that he was not an earthly bird but a heavenly bird, not a natural philosopher but a divine philosopher.   AB02740

Make philosophical matters the basis of discussion, not beliefs.   AB05823

By heavenly sciences I mean divine philosophy and spiritual teachings; by the songs and fragrances of the rose garden I mean the mysteries of the kingdom of kingdoms, the secrets of the degrees of existence and the knowledge of the results of human life.   ABU1290

Natural philosophy is not sufficient - it must be in conformity with divine philosophy.   ABU1811

The philosophers of the East consider the perfect criterion to be reason or intellect, and according to that standard the realities of all objects can be proved; for, they say, the standard of reason and intellect is perfect, and everything provable through reason is veritable.  ABU0029

They divided Divine philosophy into two parts: one kind is that of which the knowledge can be acquired through lectures and study in schools and colleges. The second kind of philosophy was that of the Illuminati, or followers of the inner light. The schools of this philosophy were held in silence.  ABU0395

The unseen Hand of God has now opened the portals of discovery, and reality hath emerged from behind the veils of mysteries and it is manifest even within natural philosophy. It is such that should any soul contemplate in the mysteries of divine philosophy, he will surpass Aristotle in discovering reality.  AB02372

"I talked with some of their wise women and their minds quickly grasped my meaning although we were discussing the profound subjects of divine philosophy. I have spoken on similar topics with the Professors of El Azkar and they were as far from understanding my talk as the tadpole is from visualizing the condition of man!"  ABU2631

The philosophers also each say that a force or universal reality is the source of all created things. Their difference with the Prophets is only in this: that the Prophets say that universal reality and all-encompassing aspect is the absolutely wealthy, perceiving and choosing by will, while the philosophers consider it poor, non-perceiving and powerless.  ABU2461

How can we compare philosophical thoughts with religious thoughts? Know that this nether world is the mirror of the kingdom, and the former is exactly the counterpart of the latter. The sound opinions of the world, which are the results of philosophical right thinking, correspond to the Traces of the Kingdom, and there does not exist any difference whatever between them.  ABU2887

By materialists, whose belief with regard to Divinity hath been explained, is not meant philosophers in general, but rather that group of materialists of narrow vision who worship that which is sensed, who depend upon the five senses only, and whose criterion of knowledge is limited to that which can be perceived by the senses. All that can be sensed is to them real, whilst whatever falleth not under the power of the senses is either unreal or doubtful. The existence of the Deity they regard as wholly doubtful.  AB00020

They put some questions pertaining to wisdom and philosophy to his honor Paul. He said that before he recognized Christ he knew everything; but after he came to know Christ, he forgot everything. He was filled with Christ and so they should ask him about Christ, besides whom he was ignorant of everything whatsoever. In the Tablets of His Holiness Baha'Ullah, there are many philosophic questions. For example, the Tablet of Wisdom, but it has not yet been translated. It may be found that his honor Fazel Mazandarani gave this Tablet to a Persian expert to translate into English. In His Tablets He has encouraged and rather urged (the people) to study philosophy. Therefore, in the region of Baha'Ullah philosophy is highly esteemed.  AB01223

This is the difference between philosophers who are Spiritual Teachers, and those who are mere philosophers: the Spiritual Teacher is the first to follow His own teaching; He brings down into the world of action His spiritual conceptions and ideals. His Divine thoughts are made manifest to the world. His thought is Himself, from which He is inseparable. When we find a philosopher emphasizing the importance and grandeur of justice, and then encouraging a rapacious monarch in his oppression and tyranny, we quickly realize that he belongs to the first class: for he thinks heavenly thoughts and does not practise the corresponding heavenly virtues. This state is impossible with Spiritual Philosophers, for they ever express their high and noble thoughts in actions.  ABU1414

Philosophy in this age consists in the fact that man is out of touch with God; he is out of touch with the Kingdom of God; he is out of touch with spiritual susceptibilities; he is out of touch with the Holy Spirit, and out of touch with the ideal verities. To wit: he may be an agnostic and a captive of the tangibilities. In reality her highness the Cow enjoys this attribute and quality. The Cow is naturally a denier of God, a denier of the Kingdom, a denier of spiritualities and a denier of the heavenly verities. She has attained to these virtues without labor. Therefore she is the philosopher emeritus. Our philosophers of this age after twenty years of study and reflection in the universities attain to the station of the Cow. They know only the senses as the verities.  AB02076

The metaphysical concepts of Mulla Sadra and Muhyi'd-Din are mostly vain imaginings. For example, the concept of the universal archetype is imagination, conception, not reality. For instance, Mulla Sadra's ten intellects were taken from the idolatrous Greek philosophers. When Aristotle would go forth with Alexander, they would carry nine idols before him. These ten intellects are Aristotle's theory. For example, [he says] motion is of two kinds: forced motion and circular motion. Circular motion is evidence of will. Since we see circular motion in these spheres, they possess will, therefore in these spheres there is an intellectual force which is the controlling power of that sphere. In each of the spheres there is an intellectual force which is the source and controller of the nine spheres. There are eight spheres, in each of which there is one intellect, and all are expressed as the eight intellects, in the ninth sphere there is one intellect under whose shadow are all the others. There is one Universal Intellect ruling over all in the tenth sphere. This is imagination.   ABU0675

