all the atoms of contingent beings, from the most exalted summit to the lowest point, to rejoice and hath given them to drink of the wine of radiance and the sweet crystal water   BH10241

All things - fruits, trees, leaves and flowers - are singing melodies and are occupied with the praise and glorification of God.   BH06421

The sign of the manifestation of the Blessed Beauty is deposited and concealed within the reality of all things, and the diffused rays of the Sun of Truth are reflected and visible in the mirrors of all beings  AB10136

The reality of all things proclaims with eloquent tongue "Glory be to my Lord, the Most Glorious!" and the essence of rock and clay and tree cries out "Glory be to my Lord, the Most Exalted!"  AB08573

He has given every atom the capacity to receive divine grace and bestowed upon every drop the surge and swell of vast oceans of favor  AB01123


they will see the blue heavens studded with luminous stars, rivers flowing with salubrious water, gardens bedecked with fragrant flowers, trees adorned with blossoms and fruits, birds singing songs of light, humanity ever striving forward, every atom of existence breathing life and force - the universe of God a wonderful theatre upon the stage of which every created thing plays its part.   ABU1290


Everything can speak to us of God - everything can reflect to us the light of the Spirit. When we look at people, we must look at them for the spirit that is in them; we must see them in their relation to God - they are His creatures and belong to Him.  ABU0322

All atoms in creation are in motion yet unaware of the Mover and Creator. A wondrous melody reaches all yet they know not the Singer. They acknowledge the supreme movement of existence and minds, and observe the intense power of the mystery of being, yet are heedless of the center of this great outpouring.   AB01569

He hath created all things from nothingness, and hath placed the essence of all things within things, and the essence of a thing within all things, and the essence of all within the Primal Unity, so that all contingent beings might attain unto the summit of His bounteous grace and reach the horizon of His holy glory.  BB00005

Verily God is near in His remoteness and remote in His nearness. Will ye not stand in awe? Say: Were there an atom in a rock beneath the seventh sea, verily God would know it and would be nearer to it than itself, and would know its secret and its whisper and its beginning.  BB00003

I have come to this world to extract essences. If there exists an atom of essence in a stone beneath the seven seas, I will not cease until I have extracted that essence from it.  BHU0001

When thou ponderest deeply into the realities of things thou wilt see them all emanating from the reflections of God's names and attributes and the signs of the One Who shineth from the Sinai Mount - names and attributes which are entrusted in the realities of things.  AB08921

Were you to observe with the eye of the All-Merciful, you would witness all the atoms of existence in joy and vibration from this perfect bounty and all-encompassing grace   AB04463

All the phenomena speak with man, explaining to him in an eloquent tongue all the secrets of creation.   ABU3381

Every atom proclaimeth and giveth glad tidings   BH09716

all things have proclaimed: "The Sovereign hath come!"  BH11419

all things spoke and the earth and heaven were stirred   BH03470

Reference was made to the recently discovered "Sayings of Jesus" found in the fragment of a Papyrus book in Egypt, and especially to the saying "Lift the stone and thou shalt find me. Cleave the wood and there am I."  The Master said that as we can only see different objects by the light of the sun, one might in one sense and with truth say the aim is in everything. In this sense also is our Lord Christ in everything. As all things are nourished and sustained by the light and warmth of the sun, so are all created beings filled with the overflowing bounty of Christ.  ABU3187

these perfections in other realities are borrowed from that Sun of Truth, and each reality according to its capacity and worthiness   AB04398

All things forever bow down before Thee to the utmost of their capacity and seek Thy good-pleasure to the fullest extent of their station. Indeed, he hath supposed Thy good-pleasure to lie in his standing still, and worship of Thee in his being veiled. Else, glory be unto Thee and exalted art Thou! All shall worship Thee according to their capacity, all shall prostrate before Thee according to their capacity, all shall glorify Thee according to their capacity, all shall thank Thee according to their capacity, and all shall remember Thee according to their capacity.   BB00199

For instance, the sun shineth upon the black stone, the white stone, and the mirror, but each reflecteth according to its own capacity and absorbeth the sun's rays accordingly. The measure of benefit and illumination depends upon the capacity, portion and taste of the thing itself. The clouds, for example, pour down rain equally from the sky. In one place it falleth upon fertile soil where seeds are sown, and in another place upon barren salt land. Though the rain hath fallen equally upon both, from one there springeth forth a harvest, while from the other only useless weeds.   ABU0830

The spirit is an emanation from God which has shone forth upon all created things, and all beings have a share and a portion thereof. Consider the sun that sheds its illumination upon all the creatures of the earth. All the beings on this planet are sustained and nourished through the bounty of the sun and receive its light and radiance. But this bounty appears in every grade according to the requisites of that grade.  ABU0179

the diffused rays of the Sun of Truth are reflected and visible in the mirrors of all beings  AB10136

Verily God is near in His remoteness and remote in His nearness. Will ye not stand in awe? Say: Were there an atom in a rock beneath the seventh sea, verily God would know it and would be nearer to it than itself, and would know its secret and its whisper and its beginning.  BB00003

Every leaf and stone and clod hath testified to the appearance of God and His sovereignty   BH08273

His light encompasseth the heavens and earth, and there is nothing but is illumined by it.   BH02670

not an atom exists but that it reveals the manifest signs of Thy oneness throughout all regions  AB00978

God is the source of all things that are made, and all things that are, are mirrors reflecting His Glory.   ABU2080

All existence is but a ray from the sun of His bounty, and all that was and will be is but a reflection of the radiance of His grace.  BB00005

Thou art He Who hath deposited within all things among created things the traces of Thy handiwork and the manifestations of Thy grace and loving-kindness   BH03060

All things testify to Thy oneness through their very being, all things magnify Thee through their essence, and all from the heights to the lowest atom exalt Thee through their reality.   BB00434

Today the Tongue of God speaks in all things, yet no hearing ear is to be found that might perceive it. The signs of God are manifest in all things, yet no seeing eye is found that might behold them.   BH03467

Today all atoms proclaim "The Sovereign hath come!" and all the Concourse on High give glad tidings to the people of creation that "Thy Lord hath come, and on that day sovereignty belongeth unto God."  BH00872

Thou hast placed in all things a sign of Thy love.  BB00283



He hath brought into being the Temple of Oneness in the essence of creation that the atoms might give voice to whatsoever their Creator willeth, and He hath deposited the likeness of Unity in every atom of creation.   BB00216


Notwithstanding the fact that the Reality of Divinity has become effulgent or resplendent in all phenomena, not a single phenomenon amongst phenomena has been bereft of the bounty of God. All phenomena are submerged in the sea of God's eternal bestowals.  ABU0022

Through the pure bounty of His grace and the sublime excellence of His mercy, He hath deposited within all things that are seen and known the sign of His knowledge, that no thing might be deprived of recognizing His presence according to its capacity and station. And this sign is the mirror of His beauty in creation  BH00210

All things within their limits manifest the signs of the One in His presence. Can ye not see? Even if ye were to look upon an ant, ye would find within it all these most excellent names in its creation. Therefore, belittle not any of God's creatures, but look unto Him Who created all things by His command.  BB00003

O thou who seekest My traces! Know thou that My traces encompass the heavens and the earth, and in every station My traces are found, if thou be of them that know. Verily, the heaven is the trace of My exaltation and the earth the trace of My tranquility... The clouds are the trace of My movement and the winds are sent forth by My Word   BH02361

In a single leaf of a tree are inscribed and visible volumes of knowledge and wisdom, and the ocean of creation is apparent and surging. BH02373

When, however, thou dost contemplate the innermost essence of all things, and the individuality of each, thou wilt behold the signs of thy Lord's mercy in every created thing, and see the spreading rays of His Names and Attributes throughout all the realm of being. And not an atom of all the atoms in existence, not a creature from amongst the creatures but speaketh His praise and telleth of His attributes and names, revealeth the glory of His might and guideth to His oneness and His mercy.   AB00083


The true believer in divine unity is one who sees all things as manifestations of God's primal sign, and beholds in all things the expressions of His names and attributes, while seeing that sign as sanctified above all things and sovereign over all things   BH01972
