Blessed is the soul that hath attained unto true unity   BH11050

Thou didst open the gate of Divine Unity to all servants   BH10753

...calling to oneness in all affairs in the realm of being.  AB04615

We beseech God to illumine all with the light of true unity   BH10471

All things have borne witness to Thy oneness and singleness   BH06592

that sign of oneness grew more firmly established day by day   AB07502

This is the station of true divine unity and spiritual oneness.   BH06371

thou hast been illumined with the lights of the Word of Divine Unity  BH09671

"In all things there is a sign pointing to the fact that He is One."   BB00511

Through them was raised the standard of divine unity upon the heights   BH07135

All created things have borne witness to His singleness, and all beings to His oneness.  BH06373

the Bird of Oneness hath soared into the atmosphere of holy and luminous sanctity   BH06695

This is the Surah of Unity. In the Name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate.  BB00002

the lights of oneness are shining and the mysteries of divine unity are manifest and evident  AB07440

The Light of Truth shineth radiantly in the lamp of Divine Unity and in the niche of Oneness.  AB08039

True unity is not established except through the sanctification of His holy Being from all else.  BH11118

By God's life! Were the station of true unity to be mentioned, all would be struck unconscious, save a few.   BH02425

the money-changers of divine unity distinguish and differentiate between the pure and that which is otherwise  BH07314

Who hath dawned from the daysprings of unity and gleamed, shimmered, flashed and sparkled in the horizon of divine unity  AB12164

O my Lord! These are Thy loved ones who have held fast to the cord of Thy oneness and clung to the hem of Thy singleness  AB06484

to plunge into the ocean of Thy oneness and to draw from the river of Thy sanctity, to enter the paradise of Thy uniqueness   AB03711

through Whom the light of unity shone forth amongst the servants...whose hearts God hath illumined with the light of His unity  BH06817

immerse yourself in the ocean of oneness, ascend to the heaven of detachment, abide eternally in the paradise of divine unity   AB06783

O Lord, cause our souls to depend upon the signs of Thy Oneness, our hearts to be dilated with the Bounties of Thy Singleness   AB04598

Under the shade of the all-embracing Word of unity, which is among the signs of divine power, thou shalt attain to every desire  AB08199

The effulgence is one effulgence, the rising is one rising, and the Manifestor is one Manifestor, yet the effect is of two kinds   AB06359

The day will soon come when the light of Divine unity will have so permeated the East and the West that no man dare any longer ignore it  AB11414

By Thine aloneness the Sun of Oneness shone, and by Thy banishment the land of Unity was adorned. Be patient, O Thou Exile of the worlds.   BH00687

Enter beneath the shade of the Word of Unity...The sign of unity hath become resplendent and the mysteries of divine uniqueness have become manifest.  AB08880

make them as one servant, and one light, and one name, that they may exemplify oneness in Thy land...then cause them to enter the depths of the sea of Thy oneness  BH09618

The atoms have spoken even as the Revealer of Verses spoke when He came with clear proofs such as none in the heavens and earth could bring forth the like thereof.  BH11757

May eternal bounty become universal, and may witnessed unity culminate in existential uniqueness, and may the fruit of essential unity become manifest and evident.  AB02913

Verily He is the Truth, there is no God but Him, and God hath power over all things. He is the One like unto Whom there is nothing, and He is God, the Mighty, the Wise.  BB00002

The letters of multiplicity within it only tell of its station of unity. There is no ruling regarding the meanings of its words except through the evidence of its reality.  BB00345

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who speaketh is indeed the One through Whom the standards of divine unity were raised above all other standards   BH07707

My tongue beareth witness to Thy unity and singleness, to Thy might and sovereignty, to Thy power and dominion, and that Thou art God and there is none other God but Thee.   BH06416

Verily He is the One calling in the atmosphere, manifest from His most exalted horizon, and speaking forth that "I am God, the Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens."  BH07304

Written by the Finger of God, say: This is the Hidden One, and whoso affirmeth aught beside Him hath indeed joined partners with God, and thus hath the matter been decreed.   BH10615

Although divine decree is irrevocable and outwardly may not accord with the desire of God's servants, in truth it is, to those possessed of insight, dearer than life itself.  BH07895

that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath appeared from the horizon of the Unseen is verily the Sovereign of existence in both the unseen and visible realms   BH08678

If in this divine springtime of the Most Great Cycle the birds of holiness do not sing the most wondrous Merciful melodies upon the branches of oneness, how can they find rest?  AB01284

There is no God but Him, the Single, the Most Exalted, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy...wherein all things have proclaimed that there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Generous.   BH03232

Say not "ah" - nay, rather say "There is no God but God." Verily, ye must negate negation and then affirm affirmation. This is the foundation of religion, would ye but reflect.   BB00436

Enter beneath the shade of the Word of Unity and drink of the wine of detachment. The sign of unity hath shone forth and the mysteries of divine uniqueness have become manifest.  AB08880

In the Name of Him Who is mentioned in the Tablets! Verily the clouds pour down rain, and the verses descend, and the light hastens before the Face, yet the people perceive not.   BH09749

O handmaiden of God! The fragrances of divine revelation have perfumed the realms of earth and heaven, and the effulgences of the Light of Manifestation have illumined the world.  BH03291

Thus hath the matter been decreed, but the people are in a mighty veil. And verily His remembrance hath appeared in the temple of the Youth. Blessed be God, the Best of creators!   BH06526

God is truth and all else beside God is creation, and verily the letters of truth are eighteen Vavs, each Vav being one of those who have hastened to the Cause of their Lord.  BB00004

Thus it is neither of the eternity of firstness nor of the everlastingness of lastness, but rather it shines forth from the Sun of Oneness, gleaming from the might of the Eternal   BB00240

Everything is interlinked. A link cannot be broken without affecting that natural order. Everything that happens is in conformity with this order and is based on consummate wisdom.  ABU2457

Whosoever ascribeth partnership or similarity to the Lord of Batha (may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake), such a one is deprived of the light of true divine unity.   BH10009

The Sinai hath smiled in this Revelation whereby the standards of idolatry were lowered and the banners of divine unity were raised by the command of God, the Lord of all existence.   BH03278

Bear thou witness that there is no God but Him, the King, the All-Praised. He it is Who hath sent down the Book in truth wherein there is no doubt. Say: All are submissive unto Him.   BB00446

Now the beloved of God must rise from the horizon of oneness in such wise that all who dwell on earth become intoxicated from the wine of unity, become immersed in the sea of oneness  AB05259

Fix thy gaze upon this blessed Word, which is even as the Most Great Luminary for the world of vision: "Make mention of Me on My earth, and I will make mention of thee in My heaven."   BH10963

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him... there is none other God but Him, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise... there is none other God but Him, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy   BH07144

those souls who have been adorned with the new raiment, who are turned towards the horizon of oneness, and who revolve, through their essential, original motion, around the Will of God.  BH01881

Does not love include sacrifice and service and meekness? Is not the magic word oneness synonymous with unity and peace? And the blazing flame of truth, is it not fed by love and peace?  ABU0452

And glory be upon you and upon those with you and upon those who have testified to that which God hath testified: that there is none other God but Him, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH01567

The signs of the sovereignty of Thy mercy have ever been realized from Thee, and the manifestations of the wonders of the dominion of Thy oneness have ever existed through Thy creation.   BB00149

Through the word "no," caused all the manifestations of negation to perish, and through the blessed word "except," guided the manifestations of affirmation to the station of immortality.   BH04010

He called thee aforetime with a call whereby the unitarians took flight, the polytheists were thunderstruck, and the sincere hastened to the dawning-place of thy Lord's Most Exalted Beauty   BH06060

We testify that there is none other God but Him, in acknowledgment of His oneness and confession of His singleness. There is none other God but Him, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH04886

I bear witness before God and what is in His knowledge that there is no God but Him, alone with no partner. His is the Kingdom and Command, there is no God but Him, the Great, the Exalted.   BB00166

Having adorned the food of glory and submission with the spices of unity and sanctification, enter into the verdant, joyous shallow waters of the Beloved Lord, veiled with the veil of light.  BH01905

God, there is no god but He, has revealed unto me that this is the truth from God, and God has not decreed any alteration for Our words in aught of the Book concerning the Point of the Gate.  BB00002

Today the very essence of proof crieth out amidst all creation, and the reality of testimony calleth, with most exalted utterance, all who dwell on earth to the shores of the sea of oneness.   BH07550

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath come with the truth is verily the Ocean of My knowledge, the Heaven of My wisdom, and the Sun of My loving-kindness.   BH09417

We verily behold the Kingdom - it speaketh and saith: "O people of the Realm of Might! By God, the King of Kings hath come with a sovereignty that hath encompassed all who are in existence."   BH06246

O people! By God the Truth! The signs of God shine forth amidst the signs of men as the sun shineth forth between the heavens and the earth. Beware lest ye compare them with aught else.   BH02584

The Truth by truth declareth: There is no God but God, alone with no partner. None is like unto Him, neither peer nor similitude. And He is God who hath ever been ancient in truth upon truth.  BB00002

He was first in the unseen and last in the visible realm, that the word might be fulfilled that He is the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden, and that He encompasseth all things.   BH08327

the fragrance of confession to the word of unity was wafted therefrom...to guard those who believe in His unity, through the hosts of the seen and the unseen, from the evil of the polytheists   BH06998

O people! None may test God his Lord, the Lord of the heavens and earth; rather doth God test whomsoever He willeth of His servants. He, verily, is the Ruler over whatsoever He pleaseth.   BH03272

who broke the covenant and pledge of the idols and cast away their ordinances and pulled up the tent-pegs of the pavilions of polytheism and raised the pavilion of divine unity among the world   BH02252

He that riseth at one time and falleth at another is not worthy to draw nigh unto this Fire, for by it all things are consumed save him from whom emanateth the fragrance of the love of his Lord   BH06751

God cannot be known by anything, for He is what He hath ever been, and there was naught else besides Him. And now God is as He hath ever been, and there is no mention of aught else besides Him.   BB00205

He is the Single One, the Eternal, the Everlasting, the Unique, the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting, Who has taken neither consort nor son, nor partner in might, nor protector out of weakness.   BB00279

I bear witness to that which God has testified in His knowledge that there is no God but Him, the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting, the Most High, the Most Great, the Lord of Majesty and Bounty.   BB00289

He hath come with the knowledge of "He doeth what He willeth." Should He prefer an atom to the sun, or a drop to the ocean, all must accept it, for none knoweth the requirements of divine wisdom.   BH02655

This is the Greatest Sign that proclaimeth the unity of its Lord at all times, before time and after time. That is the Furthermost Temple wherein the name of God is remembered morning and evening.  BB00004

Bear thou witness that there is no God but Him, the Sovereign, the Holy. He is God, there is no God but Him, the Knower of the unseen and the seen, the Living, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BB00285

This is the Day wherein the gates of grace, glory and bounty have been opened wide, and that which was hidden and treasured in the Book hath been revealed by command of God, the Lord of all men.   BH02171

Consider with the eye of reality. The aim of life is reality, and reality is one. Reality does not accept multiplicity. This is the essence of the teachings, and an established, self-evident fact.   ABU1406

Glorified is He Who sends down verses for people who act with justice, who walk upon the straight path and hasten unto good deeds, who speak pure truth amongst the servants and perform what is right.  BH05394

These are the verses of God which have been sent down in truth from the heaven of exalted glory and which call the people to the recognition of His Self, the Most High, the Supreme, the All-Knowing.   BH03473

Verily the first principle of religion is what ye proclaim: There is no God but God, and then whatsoever God ordaineth in every Dispensation whereby that Word is established, if ye be of them who know.  BB00003

The Throne hath appeared and there hath sat upon it the Temple of God, Lord of the unseen and the seen. And at the first moment of His sitting, He shed His effulgence upon all things through all names.   BH07196

O namesake of 'Abdu'l-Baha! If thou seekest the essence of numbers, lay hold of the hem of the True One, for all numbers are powerless and wanting, but the True One is effective, mighty and penetrating.  AB09406

Call not upon any god besides God, for whatsoever is besides God is His creation, and all are devoted unto Him. This is the path of God upon which all do travel. He is the Truth, there is no God but Him.  BB00004

Naught is seen therein save the mystery of Divine Unity and pure Oneness. We beseech God to open the eyes of all humanity that they may recognize Him and bear witness that there is none other God but Him.  BH00088

I bear witness at this moment, from this station, even as Thou hast testified to Thine own Self by Thine own Self, that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee. Thou hast ever existed and wilt ever exist.   BB00565

If thy gaze be upon the depths of the sea of Oneness, then be the praise of God, besides Whom there is no God, the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting, alone - for God hath raised it above opposites and peers  BB00325

how sweet is beholding the signs of Thy oneness in realities informed by the outpouring of Thy mercy... and evanescence at the gate of Thy oneness is the ultimate hope of the stars in the heaven of lights   AB01539

"without reference to multiplicity or differentiation, but rather in the aspect of unity - and this is the garden of oneness: he who is within it has not gone out, and he who is without it has not entered"   BB00318

Yet in reality these three are one. In philosophical terms: motion, mover and moved; cause, effect and affected; creation, creator and created; knowledge, teacher and taught; grace, bestower and recipient.   ABU2844

Is there doubt about God, or about this Manifestation Who hath appeared with the truth with clear evidence, or about that which hath been revealed unto Him of the verses of your Lord, the All-Merciful?   BH02555

O people of the earth! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and oppose not Him through Whom the sincere ones have soared unto the Kingdom of Meeting, and the pure in heart unto the heaven of nearness and reunion.   BH03282

God hath created Joseph and his brethren from the Blessed Tree of Unity, and people know not from their expressions the mystery of what was inscribed with God, the Truth, in the Mother Book, around the Fire.  BB00002

Blessed is the one who hath turned unto Him and attained unto true divine unity, which is the station wherein the Ancient Being is sanctified from all else save Him and His Essence is purified from all things.  BH04007

All are from God and unto Him shall all return Say: We all believe in God and His signs Say: We all are certain of God and His words Say: We all are worshippers of God Say: We all are prostrate before God   BB00110

This is a day wherein grace hath encompassed all religions, and the Divine Lott Tree hath called out from the Most Exalted Horizon: 'Verily, there is none other God but Him, the One, the Single, the All-Knowing.'  BH10491

God testifieth that there is no God but He. His is the kingdom and the dominion, then the might and the omnipotence, then the power and the divinity, then the strength and sovereignty, then the dominion of earth.  BB00003

Praise and its essence befitteth that Beloved One Who, through His perfect power, uttered a Word whereby was made manifest all that had been mentioned in the divine Books concerning the Resurrection and its signs   BH02775

If a soul is confirmed in hearkening unto this one word, there has not been and is not any danger for him. All atoms bear witness to his faith, certitude and steadfastness in the path of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH00665

Truth is like the Light which is always the same. The souls of Believers are as mirrors which reflect the Light. Truth is like the light of a candle which does not vary, yet the candlestick which holds it may change.  ABU2267

My God beareth witness how that Branch from the branches of the tree of Thy love hath unified Thee through what Thou hast created in his essence of the truth of Thy unity, through his heart, spirit, soul, body and form.  BB00293

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the Kingdom of the divine essence of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them. Therefore glorify ye God on that Day in the true religion with a sublime glorification.  BB00004

We went racing in the land of the cloud and left Joseph with the goods of Divine Unity from our Lord, besides Whom there is no God, and the beholders consumed him with their glances toward him in the depths of innovation  BB00002

Glorified be He Who created all things by His command and ordained the measures of every matter in a Preserved Tablet of might, and established therein the laws of the Cause through the tongue of the Messengers aforetime   BH09441

At this time when the effulgence of that Self-Subsisting Sun hath from the unseen aspect of existence cast its rays across the earth and heaven and irradiated the farthest horizons with its dawning lights of primal unity   AB06300

And what is meant by true unity is that God hath no likeness or similitude. All bear witness that He was and is sanctified above peers and likenesses, and exalted above that which the hearts of servants have comprehended.   BH02275

That which ye imagine to be the unity of God is but fancy - profess not His unity except with certainty. This is the Tree of Affirmation - take shelter in its shade that your profession of unity may be raised unto God.  BB00004

Indeed, the Religion is supported by four pillars:  1) Tawhid  2) Nubuwwa 3) Walaya, and 4) Shi'a. These are four gates of which no one is of any use without the others. And all of this is the Face of God which will never perish.   BB00297

Thus hath the Most Exalted Pen spoken, and the Dove of Utterance warbled upon the branch of knowledge that there is none other God but Him, the One Who, through His word, hath power over all things, the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH04090

For those possessed of truth and wisdom, there is in every station an explanation. Know thou furthermore that each letter of these sacred words hath two aspects - one turning toward the inner meaning and one toward the outer.  BH00380

the Sun of Truth from the Dayspring of Oneness hath shed the lights of unity upon the temples of detachment, and the Most Great Sea hath bestowed upon the shores of contingent beings the luminous pearls of unity and detachment   AB06937

O my God! Thou art He Whose mercy hath preceded all things, Whose grace hath encompassed all, Whose proof hath been perfected, Whose evidence hath been completed, Whose sovereignty hath appeared, Whose power hath become manifest  AB09142

so that the mirrors of contingent being may ascend from the unseen realm of existence to the divine holy world, and after the removal of the veils of majesty they may become strong and resplendent from the pure Beauty of the Eternal   BH10408

The Sun of the Divine Countenance shines forth from the horizon of will, yet most turn away. The verses of the Lord descend at every moment from the heaven of merciful purpose, yet most of mankind remain veiled and remote therefrom.   BH05001

has two rising places, two dawning places, two horizons and two setting places: an outward, material, concrete horizon in the external world, and an inward, heart-centered, spiritual, knowledge-based, consciously-experienced horizon   AB01288

Who hath distinguished between the polytheists and the monotheists through the blessed word "There is none other God but God." This blessed word is the decisive utterance. Through their belief in unity the limbs of polytheism trembled.  BH01722

Knowledge is only with the Gate from God, and He is God, the True Witness, and God is All-Knowing of all things. And He is God, the Truth, He is the All-Merciful - we believe in Him, and He is the Truth, independent of all worlds.  BB00002

Today the Sun of Divine Unity is shining, and whosoever turneth unto Him and beholdeth Him as the One dominating, prevailing over, and encompassing all things, he shall be reckoned before the Divine Throne as one of the people of unity   BH05529

The meaning of unity has been explained by the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit and being be sacrificed for His steadfast loved ones - in the Tablet to Salman and in the Book of Certitude and other divine Tablets with clearest exposition   AB00445

O people! Purify your vision and turn towards the Dayspring of lights. The Day hath come whereof God's messengers and prophets gave you tidings. Read ye what hath been sent down in the Tablets from God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH03450

Did We not make a covenant with you, O servants of God, in Our true covenant with truth upon truth - a weighty covenant - that ye should speak naught concerning God save the truth, with the Most Great Truth, in confirmation and submission?  BB00002

Whenever something is related to Thee, the decree of the Will is applicable to it, and whenever it is related to itself, the decree of Purpose is established in it. When this duality is realized the decree of predestination is manifested.   BB00590

O people of the Throne! Hear My call from around the Fire: Verily, I am God, there is no God but I, so worship Me and establish prayer for the Greatest Remembrance, purely, apart from the people, for your Lord God, the Truth, is the Truth.  BB00002

How can I consent that Mine eyes, alone, gaze upon this emblem, and that no heart except Mine heart recognize it? By My Beauty, which is the same as Thy Beauty! My wish is to hide Thee from Mine own eyes: how much more from the eyes of men!   BH09299

Purify their hearts, illumine their sight, and expand their breasts through the light of Your oneness and the mysteries of Your uniqueness, so that they may worship You alone, alone - You have no partner, no peer, no likeness, and no minister   AB02177

Therefore, be conscious of God and flee unto His presence from the mention of anything other than His Essence in the station of His worship. This is difficult for the sincere ones except for whom God wills, for He is the Generous, the Bestower.  BB00061

Thanks be unto Him Who hath caused all created things to subsist without any means. Exalted is the sanctuary of His unity above all understanding, and manifest are the emblems of His majesty and glory beyond the praise of any who would praise Him.  BB00005

Thus do We cast down the verses of the Spirit and spread the carpet of grace over all who dwell in the kingdom... O Ocean of Oneness! Be thou gladdened within thyself, for upon thee hath settled the Ocean of Joy - and this is indeed a great bounty.   BH01069

Praise be to the One Who is worthy and deserving, Who has sanctified the world through the word "No" and guided it to the city of "Except," Who has adorned the foreheads of the believers with the seal of the blessed words "There is no God but God."   BH01769

Today ye must all be occupied with the remembrance of the sovereign of eternity and hold fast to the cord of unity. Unity is like unto an architect, and is as a door leading to the divine commandments and laws, while discord is the destroyer thereof.   BH00193

Thou hast made the paths of the monotheists lead to the station of Thy creation, and the ultimate portion of the mystics to the glory of Thy oneness, that all created things might receive their share of wisdom from the Word of Creation at every moment  BB00102

The Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name has shone forth from the horizon of the world with radiant lights upon the realities of existence from the realm of the unseen and the visible, illuminating the dark and gloomy world with divine manifestations  AB02716

Blessed is He Who hath spoken amidst the world and caused those near unto Him to speak forth in remembrance of His Most Great Name. He, verily, is the Omnipotent over whatsoever He willeth. There is none other God but Him, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH07014

My God, my God! Deliver souls from vain imaginings, that they may not suppose Thy lights to set, or Thy sun to decline, or Thy reality to descend, or Thy being to ascend. For Thou art sanctified above all such attributes and holy beyond all such mention.   AB00424

I testify that through Thee the breezes of the All-Merciful have wafted through all contingent beings, and the Most Exalted Pen hath stirred amongst all religions, and the ocean of knowledge hath surged, and upon it hath sailed the Ark of the All-Merciful   BH05582

Yea, whosoever relies upon God, his Lord, and is among those who have recognized the unity of God and call upon none besides Him - these are they who shall not grieve, neither in the life to come nor in this life, and these are they who shall triumph.  BB00004

This is why in every age the Sun of Truth shines forth and from the dawning-place of the horizons bestows the light of unity, so that the human world becomes the dawning-place of divine lights, and limited and restricted realities become temples of oneness  AB02999

Your God is but one God. There is no God but He, the Sovereign, the Self-Subsisting. Say: The number one, then one, God created from it. Will you not then attribute numbers to God? For all numbers are His creation, and all are devoutly obedient to Him.  BB00003

Praise be to Him Who caused the tongue of existence to speak forth His praise and attributes, and made the tongues of all created things in the realm of the Kingdom utter His glorification, and manifested the conditions of the Divine Realm in the world of nature   AB01369

Pass beyond both separation and union,/That thou mayest attain the highest heaven, O son./While thou art in separation, thou art surely in flames;/And in union too art feverish and unwell./Set foot in the pure realm of immortality,/Where all save Him is nothingness.  BH00108

O people of the earth! Hearken unto the call of God from the divine Lote-Tree in this sacred and luminous Valley, that there is none other God but Him, and that 'Ali-before-Nabil is the Sovereign of existence, all are His servants and all shall return unto Him.   BH01363

Through Thee have I known Thee, O my God, Thou Who alone art, there is no God but Thee. Through Thee have I loved Thee, O my God, Thou Who alone art, there is no God but Thee. Through Thee have I glorified Thee, O my God, Thou Who alone art, there is no God but Thee.  BB00011

The world hath become pregnant through this oppression, and soon shall its signs appear. The heedlessness of the servants hath reached such a state that were God to seize them all and spare but a few, those few would again rise up in sedition, except whom God willeth.  BH03636

I testify that the ocean of Thy bounty surgeth throughout existence, and the signs of Thy manifestation have encompassed both the unseen and the seen. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word, through whose appearance all things have acknowledged Thy unity and singleness  BH04322

I bear witness that there is none other God but Him. He hath distinguished between the worlds through His Most Great Name, and made those who have turned to the horizon of Revelation to become the dawning-places of love and concord and the daysprings of mercy and unity.   BH01372

And verily, were the names to free themselves from the limitations of creation, they would all become the Most Great Name, if thou be of them that know. For the Ancient Beauty hath, in these hallowed, mighty and inaccessible days, shone forth upon all things with all names.  BH00597

And how swift is this Fisher, who catches His prey before releasing the arrow - nay, in every instant brings a world of fishers into His net! With a single hair He has ensnared hundreds of thousands of necks, and with one glance from His eyelashes has wounded countless hearts.  BH05138

Glory be to Thee, O my God! Thou hearest my lamentation in this Prison and knowest that I have summoned the servants only to the court of Thy mercy and favors, and have commanded them only what Thou hast commanded in the kingdom of Thy decree and the dominion of Thy judgment.   BH03404

Whatsoever God willeth; there is no power except through God, the Lord of the heavens and the Lord of the earth, the Lord of all worlds. Say: Whatsoever God willeth; there is no glory except for God, the Lord of the heavens and the Lord of the earth, the Lord of all worlds.  BB00004

He is He, and there is naught except Him. There is no essence except His Essence, no attributes except His attributes, no virtues except His virtues, no beauty except His beauty, no tongue except His tongue, no light except His light, and no manifestation except His manifestation.  BH01771

This is the Day wherein names are not mentioned, for He Who hath appeared with truth speaks naught but of God, as the Point of the Bayan informed, saying: "Verily He is the One Who speaks in all things: 'I am God, there is none other God but Me, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.'"   BH00388

Religion consisteth of two letters - one letter is that there is none other God but He, the Lord of all things, and the other letter is that all besides Him is His creation. Between them there is no third letter, nor beneath them a fourth letter, nor besides them a fifth letter.  BB00004

God is my Lord and your Lord in truth. He hath appointed me as a witness to this Greatest Word in truth. I am but a man like unto you. God bestoweth His favor upon me as He willeth, with what He willeth. And there hath been no limit set to your Lord's command in the Mother Book.  BB00002

Therefore praise be unto Thee for having taught me Thy oneness and caused to flow from my tongue the word of Thy glorification. I bear witness that there is no God but Thee, even as Thou hast testified to Thine own Self, though none of Thy creation can comprehend the knowledge thereof.   BB00360

For verily, he who is unable to annihilate negation except through His Word - that is the most exalted path in establishing Your unity by negating negation from the court of Your holiness, the seat of Your glory, the sovereignty of Your self-subsistence, and the dominion of Your lordship.   BB00189

He is the Subduer over His servants and the Manifest in the kingdoms of the heavens and earth and whatsoever lieth between them by His command. And verily He is the Guardian, the Inaccessible, the Most Exalted, the Compelling. He judgeth with truth and He is the One, the All-Compelling.  BB00004

The Supreme Pen hath testified that there is none other God but Him, and that He is the One Who hath revealed Himself unto all things through His most beautiful names on the Day wherein the horizon of Divine Unity was illumined by the Sun of His Name, the All-Subduing Lord of all possibility.  BH03690

Therefore do all describe Thee with that which they know not of Thee, and were they to know Thee, they would not describe Thee. Hence, O my God, do they proclaim Thy unity, for Thou hast ever been while naught else existed, and Thou wilt ever be even as Thou wert in the eternity of eternities.   BB00176

Know then, O questioner, since these are days of grief, I answer thee from behind veils, naked, that thy heart may grieve as thou hast grieved me in thy letter. For thou desired naught but to test me, and showed no great concern before my face. Thou remained as thou art, and we became as we are.  BB00012

Consider the term Divine Unity, which the Manifestations of God have uttered in every Dispensation, a goodly term which all the divers peoples and kindreds of the world have spoken. Nevertheless, in each Dispensation, it hath been made new and hath in no wise been divested of its novel character.  BH11916

Know thou that at the time of Manifestation, all names are on one plane. Whoso ascendeth unto God, all Our beautiful names apply to him, but whoso standeth still on the path shall never be mentioned before God. Thus have We sent down the command in all the Tablets, wert thou to be informed thereof.  BH00155

Fix your gaze upon this blessed, firm and goodly Word, which is as a torrential rain for the meadows of the All-Merciful's utterance, and drink thereof. You will not see or find the exalted Truth with the eyes of creation. Turn your eyes from all else that you may attain to His presence and meeting.  BH00057

These are they who have mounted the cloud of love and speed through the atmosphere of the spirit. These are they for whom the word of immortality hath been fulfilled, and who abide forever in the heaven of holiness. They pay no heed to aught else but hasten to do good deeds and walk the paths of truth   BH04386

I shall ever glorify Thee, for this is what Thou hast ordained until the Day of Resurrection. Blessed art Thou, O my God! I shall ever love to praise Thee in a manner befitting the sublimity of Thy praise, and I have not sanctified Thee in a way worthy of Thine Essence from the holy court of Thy oneness.  BB00028

Thus do We announce unto you from the signs of the unity of God and from that which you were bidden so that you may declare the Oneness of God, your Creator, with your inner and outer tongues in such wise that His signs appear in all your limbs and you may be counted among them who acknowledge His Unity.   BH01394

He is that Word which hath been called by all names, appearing at every moment in a wondrous form, and in a certain station. He it is Who, between heaven and earth, proclaimed the blessed word "The Beloved of the Worlds hath appeared!", and He was that Cry whose mention was recorded aforetime in the Books.  BH00237

This is the day of the manifestation of true divine unity. Blessed is the soul that hath recognized and laid hold on the hem of Him besides Whom there is none other God. In past ages and centuries this blessed word hath issued from the tongues of people, yet they remained heedless of its meaning and reality.  BH02494

The Most Holy, the Most Great, the Most Glorious, exalted be He Who hath revealed His Hidden Beauty with such lights as have encompassed the heavens and the earth, and hath caused every thing to voice the praise of the Dawning-Place of His Command when He came from the heaven of majesty with manifest sovereignty.  BH05717

The Eternal Essence, exalted and glorified be He, hath ever unified, and will forever continue to unify, His Essence through His Essence, His attributes through His attributes, and His deeds through His deeds, and praiseth His own Self with that which befitteth His eternal exaltation and His primordial supremacy.  BB00003

Praised be God! Praised be God! God's will prevails, His purpose penetrates. We are all as nothing; all that exists is Him. The reins of awareness are in His hand, and the cord of knowledge is in the grasp of His power. What are we? Who are we? We are but manifestations of ignorance and embodiments of forgetfulness.   BH00535

I testify that the first thing God revealed in every religion from a beginning that hath no beginning, and will reveal henceforth unto an end that hath no end, is the word There is no God but God. The elaboration of this word is the mention of him whose remembrance God hath joined with the remembrance of His own Self  BB00005

For when thou sayest except the sun of heaven there existeth no sun to oppose it; likewise when thou sayest there is no god but God there existeth no god besides God, and there is none before Him to oppose Him. And verily what thou seest of the conditions of negation are but weaker than this and more feeble than that.  BB00003

There is no God but God, to the number of all that He hath created and shall create...There is no God but God, from the beginning that hath no beginning, to the number of all numbers. There is no God but God, unto the end that hath no end, to the number of all that the Sun of Truth hath risen upon or shall rise upon.   BB00108

The essence of the matter and the pure intention in explaining this Most Great Sign and Most Great Evidence is that God concealeth all that He hath created and will create in the ocean of names, such that they see naught in the countenance of Him Whom God shall make manifest save the manifestation of God, exalted be He.  BB00027

I shall glorify Thee, praise Thee, proclaim Thy unity, magnify Thee, extol Thee, sanctify Thee, exalt Thee, and elevate Thee, and I shall testify before Thee as I hope to testify on the Day of Resurrection before the Point, the Manifestation of Thy Divinity, that there is none other God but Thee, alone with no partner.   BB00057

Until now the true meaning of Divine Unity hath not been made manifest. Were the Most Exalted Pen to unveil but a little thereof, all would testify to their own polytheism. However, the Name the Concealer hath not withdrawn the hem of grace, and the Name the All-Bountiful hath not permitted justice to reach this station.  BH00122

We beseech Him to raise up those possessed of acute hearing and keen sight who may, through witnessing, observing and hearkening, attain, and may enlighten the people on behalf of God, glorified be His majesty, so that all may gain access to the ocean of utterance and remain not deprived of the horizon of manifestation.   BH10029

This servant feareth no one, even should all the kings of the earth and all who are behind them rise up against Him, for We desire for Ourselves naught save what God desired for Us before the creation of the heavens and earth. He who desireth God will desire naught else besides Him and will fear none other than Him.   BH03471

O servants of the All-Merciful! Doth aught besides this Most Great Word command you to worship none but your Lord God, the Truth, with sincere devotion to Him, turning away from all gates? This is God's eternal religion established with justice in truth throughout all the Tablets, and hath been inscribed in the Mother Book.  BB00002

Look not upon the proofs, for all these are established by what God hath revealed in the Book, and naught can establish the Book save that which would render all on earth powerless, as they are unable to produce the like thereof. When the Cause hath reached unto God, look not upon your proofs, for all this hath been revealed by God.  BB00085

They have sacrificed their spirits and bodies and limbs, all in the path of His Cause. After reading and understanding it, and experiencing joy and attraction, it was taken to the Presence and presented in its entirety before the countenance of the Lord of mankind, and these verses were revealed from the Creator of names and attributes.  BH00067

I bear witness that Thou art God, the Single, the One, the Subsisting, the Unique, the Eternal, the Ever-Living, Whom no description can describe and no attribute can qualify, and Whom nothing can know through anything else, for the rule of knowing between two things is forbidden and the word of conjunction after separation is cut off.   BB00062

Thou hast ever been triumphant over all created things, manifest unto all contingent beings, powerful over all who dwell in the kingdoms of earth and heaven, exalted above all beings, inaccessible above all who dwell in the kingdoms of earth and heaven, sovereign over all things, and supreme over all creation with power and independence.   BB00191

God createth not a single thing but He createth from itself what He willeth through His command, which quickeneth all things. God createth not a single entity but He createth from itself its counterpart, for God, the Lord of all worlds. And God createth not a pair but He createth from itself a single entity, for God, the Lord of all worlds.  BB00004

Know thou that the foundation of religion is the knowledge of God, and the perfection of knowledge is unity, and the perfection of unity is the negation of attributes and names from His holy Essence, and the perfection of negation is entrance into the depth of oneness, through certain knowledge and witnessing the manifestation of His bounty.  BB00017

Praise, sanctified from reality and metaphor, befits the Self-Sufficient Lord Who, through His Most Exalted Word, has bestowed infinite love between the hearts and souls of His friends and established spiritual unity. No blessing has been or is greater than this blessing. Every knowledgeable one bears witness and every informed one testifies.   BH00738

Praise be to God Who has manifested the Light and through it illumined the world of inner meanings and expression, and Who has revealed the Fire and through it shone forth upon Moses on the Mount of mystic knowledge... There is none other God but Him. He has ever been in the heights of power and majesty, and in the summit of might and grandeur.   BH01537

They should establish beyond a shadow of doubt that by Unity of God is meant that the Manifestations of God Who inaugurate each Dispensation are to be regarded as one soul, unique and peerless, and all others, whether high or low, are, without exception, to be regarded as servants, utterly submissive before the Dawning-Place of God's Revelation.  BHU0036

I ask Thee, O my God, by Thy Power, Might and Dominion which have encompassed all who are in Thy heaven and earth--to point out to Thy servants Thy straight pathway, that they may acknowledge Thy Oneness and singleness with a certainty that shall not be clouded by the imaginations of doubters, nor veiled by the conjectures of straying wanderers.  AB07826

Dost thou reckon him as one among the servants? Nay, by the Lord of all existence! Through him have all tribes been seized with earthquakes, the pillars of tyranny have trembled, and the countenance of victory hath shone forth from the horizon of power. Can names attain unto him? Nay, by their Lord! He hath ascended unto a station beyond all mention.   BH01786

If somewhere mention is made of a station or knowledge of all things, it is due to the greatness of the station of unity, before which all stations are humble and non-existent... Further, regarding the command of the Most Great Name to Satan, I did not understand, for the call was to unity and the ordinances of the Qur'an, no aspect of polytheism was intended.   BB00671

By Thy glory, O my God, whenever I have sought other than Thee, I found it naught, and whenever I desired other than Thee, I witnessed it not. And whenever I descend from the most exalted heights to the lowest depths of earth, I find nothing except signs of Thy oneness, tokens of Thy singleness, intimations of Thy lordship, and evidences of Thy self-subsistence   BH01073

Lord, cause me to enter the depth of Thy oneness and the ocean of Thy unity." Most people in the station of reality have not truly perceived - were they on the pure path wherein there is no mention of [...] For the speaker hath not beheld God and His works, neither doth he act with pure devotion to God, nor doth he pursue the intention of drawing nigh unto Him.   BB00054

His first mercy in the world of contingent being was the casting forth of the blessed Word of Divine Unity. Praise be to God, then thanks be to Him, then glory be to Him and bounty, for He hath favored us with the Word of Unity, and hath made us know the sanctity of His Being, and hath taught us the transcendence of His Essence above all likenesses and comparisons.   BH01221

Verily the Lord Who manifested Himself upon the Mount with the power of Revelation has caused two seas to flow - the sea of darkness and the sea of light. They meet together - one sweet, palatable, cool and refreshing to drink, the other salty and bitter, nay putrid and mirage-like. And He has placed between them a barrier and boundary that they may not mix or mingle.   AB03565


Whosoever claimeth to unify the Essence through his own essence by unifying the Essence itself - his unification is void, the aspects of his abstraction are compound, and the stations of his uniqueness are limited. For all that is other than the Essence was created only through the manifestations of limitation from the six directions and the appearances that indicate them.  BB00042

Verily all things enter into what God loveth, for they are in Paradise and are among His creation which God hath created in the Book of the Exalted Ones, and it is recorded therein. And should it be among that which God loveth not to mention, yet it is among God's creation, His proof hath been perfected concerning it, and God will purify it when He willeth through His command.  BB00004

O ignorant ones! O heedless ones! O oppressors! Your deeds and words on the day of reckoning deprived you of God's Most Great Name and the ocean of the All-Merciful's mercy. The oneness of God, exalted be His glory, is not established save through the Manifestation of His Self, the Dawning-Place of His Cause, the Dayspring of His Revelation, and His Representative among creation.  BH01235

The station of absolute self-surrender transcendeth, and will ever remain exalted above, every other station. It behoveth thee to consecrate thyself to the Will of God. Whatsoever hath been revealed in His Tablets is but a reflection of His Will. So complete must be thy consecration, that every trace of worldly desire will be washed from thine heart. This is the meaning of true unity.   BH01850

Recognize no essential relationship between them, for God hath created for everything the names of all things. Therefore hath God ordained that in the instant when there is no essential relationship between them, nor conceptual substantiality, nor existential reality - yet those who gaze upon the forms of limitation know not the stations of the All-Merciful's manifestation of all through all.  BB00088

The Second Station: The Ha in the rank of meanings is a pillar of Unity and the place of Will, and it is the first speaker in the sea of contingency with mention of the All-Merciful - there is no God but God, the Powerful, the Supreme. That is the station of Divine Love, True Guardianship, Secondary Eternity, and Universal Lordship manifest in the secret of the elevated Ali, peace be upon him.  BB00022

Thus doth the Tongue of truth and knowledge inform thee. All names have been transformed, the wailing of all things hath been raised up, and every soul hath been shaken, except those who have been quickened by the breathings of the All-Glorious that have wafted from the direction of your Lord, the All-Merciful, and awakened them from slumber and purified them from the defilement of the idolaters.   BH00195

He is the One manifest above His creation, and He is the Mighty, the Beloved. He is the One Who createth whatsoever He willeth through His command Be! and it is. Such is the Creator of the heavens and of the earth and of whatsoever lieth between them, the Mighty, the Beloved. He is the One before Whom bow down in adoration all who are in the heavens and who are on earth; unto God shall all return.  BB00004

Cast aside vain imaginings and their manifestations, idols and their likes, and conjectures and their sources. Thus have We revealed the Cause and sent down that which hath attracted the hearts of those who are nigh unto God. O concourse of loved ones! Can any among you cast behind him all names and set aside all that the people possess, turning unto the Kaaba of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy?   BH01495

Thus hath it been revealed in the tradition regarding the mention of the Proof: Whoso desireth to behold from Adam to the Seal, let him behold Him, for all stand by one Command, and that Command is with Him. Nay, the Command is more exalted and sublime in the view of one who looketh with the eye of unity, for such an observer seeth naught save the Face of God, and thus speaketh not of created limitations.  BB00003

This is His Day and His Cause. Blessed is the soul that hath attained unto true divine unity. The people of the past never attained the fragrance of unity, much less its station. Each day they would ascribe a partner unto God, and yet deemed themselves to be believers in His unity... True unity is to turn unto the horizon of the one Manifestation; to exceed this is accounted as polytheism in the Book of God.   BH05587

And verily all the worlds are confined to those eight, for the first determination of the Primal K is the station of Muhammadanness, which is the Paradise of Eternity, wherein through manifestation He hath never departed, and whereunto He hath never entered from without. Then verily that Paradise is the portion of the Family of God, who are the Imams of Justice, and no one among creation hath any share therein.  BB00021

Expressed mathematically, God is the great One. - Religion is the zero, or the zeroes, which only gain significance and value through the One connected with them! Take the number 100 or 1,000 or 100,000 or more, what are the zeroes without the One which precedes them? The High Religions are several zeroes preceded by the great One, the Godhead. The lower religions have only one or two zeroes after the great One.   ABU1484

None has established what God has decreed in the Book, for all food is that which the All-Merciful detailed in the Qur'an aforetime. He defined what He wished and forbade what He wished, and He forbade naught save what Israel forbade for himself. Verily all that is unlawful for mankind is that which the Will beareth, magnifying the Manifestation of the Divine Purpose and exalting the dawning of the sovereignty of Oneness.  BB00247

I testify, O my God, that Thou hast ever been and wilt ever be. At no time can there be separated from Thee what befitteth Thy creation or beseemeth Thy handiwork. Thy dominion in Thy kingdom and the manifestations of Thy creation in Thy dominion have ever existed and will ever endure. Were I to say at any time that Thou art Thou and hadst no creation, I would negate my knowledge of Thy power and certainty of Thy Lordship.  BB00011

Unity is to know the One as One and to consider Him sanctified above numbers, not to regard two as one. The essence of unity is to recognize the Manifestation of Truth as one with the Unknowable and Inaccessible Essence, meaning that thou shouldst regard His acts, deeds, commands and prohibitions as being from Him, without separation or connection, mention or indication. These are the ultimate stations of the degrees of unity.   BH00586

This is the foundation of religion: in the beginning glorify God, in the end praise God, outwardly profess the unity of God, and inwardly magnify God. And in this Day, so long as the sun shineth, the whole of religion is "There is no God but God," outwardly and inwardly, first and last, then Muhammad is the Apostle of God, then the Imams and the Holy Leaf are God's proofs, then the Gates are the Manifestations of magnification.   BB00306

Through Thee have I known Thee - there is no God but Thee. Through Thee have I found Thee - there is no God but Thee. Through Thee have I been guided to Thee - there is no God but Thee. Through Thee have I drawn near unto Thee alone - there is no God but Thee. Through Thee have I ascended to what lieth with Thee alone - there is no God but Thee. Through Thee have I become independent of all save Thee alone - there is no God but Thee.  BB00011

The primary Oneness is a divine reality, abstracted from every attribute, sign, and indication. Could multiplicity, plurality, or distinction be conceived therein from the viewpoint of the perfections of the Essence, its relationship to attributes, and its all-comprehensiveness of divine and lordly names which necessitate the existence of contingent beings? God forbid! Blessed be the name of thy Lord, possessed of majesty and bounty!  AB00013

Thou shalt surely grant companionship unto whomsoever Thou willest, and withdraw companionship from whomsoever Thou willest. Thou shalt exalt whomsoever Thou willest and abase whomsoever Thou willest. Thou shalt honor whomsoever Thou willest and humble whomsoever Thou willest. Thou shalt assist whomsoever Thou willest and forsake whomsoever Thou willest. Thou shalt enrich whomsoever Thou willest and impoverish whomsoever Thou willest.  BB00608

All begin from God and all return unto Him. All show patience in the Cause of God, all dwell in the good-pleasure of God, all strive for the exaltation of God's Cause, all endeavor to uphold the inviolability of God's commandments. All proclaim: We are all servants of God, we are all His worshippers. We have no god but God; He is our Lord and the Lord of all things, the Lord of the visible and the invisible, the Lord of all the worlds.  BB00005

O people! By God, I have come to you from the direction of the Throne with a message from God, the Powerful, the Most High, the Great, and in my hand is a proof from God, your Lord and the Lord of your fathers of old. Weigh it with the true balance of whatsoever proofs ye possess from the Prophets and Messengers. If ye find it to be the truth from God, beware lest ye dispute concerning it or render your deeds vain, and be not of the idolaters.  BH00144

Know then that this connection is not what the servants understand, for He, exalted and mighty be He, is never joined to anything nor connected to any soul, and there exists between Him and His servants no similarity, no link, no geometry, and no sign. He is the Self-Sufficient, the Holy, the Luminous. Rather, union, connection and nearness exist only through the Manifestations of His Self and the Dawning-Places of His Cause, if you be of those who attain.  BH02557

God is One, above every possessor of oneness! None can escape from the sovereignty of His oneness, neither in the heavens, nor on the earth, nor in whatsoever lieth between them. Verily He hath ever been single, one, and unique. Say: God is One, above all creation! None can escape from the sovereignty of His unique oneness, neither in the heavens, nor on the earth, nor in whatsoever lieth between them. Verily He hath ever been single, one, and unique.  BB00005

Glorified and exalted art Thou! All shall worship Thee according to the truth of the sovereignty of Thy oneness, and all shall prostrate themselves before Thee according to the truth of the might of Thy singleness, and all shall unite in Thee through the manifestations of the glory of Thy divinity, and all shall magnify Thee through the revelations of the holiness of Thy eternity, and all shall glorify Thee through the modes of the glory of Thy singleness.  BB00003

The recognition of the manifest pre-eternity in the station of the First Remembrance, and the recognition of perpetuity, then the recognition of eternity, then the recognition of time. Therefore it was indicated by His evidences that the mention of pre-existence and pre-eternity are applied according to the different stations, ranks and conditions. When applied to the knowledge of the Essence, it is the Essence itself without mention of the Names and Attributes.  BB00014

Those pre-eminent Sufis who founded the doctrine of the "unity of existence" never intended by this term the universally predicated existence which is conceived by the mind. For such an existence is but an accident among others occurring in association with the realities of things. That is to say, these realities are the substance, whereas that existence which is conceived by the mind, the universally predicated existence, is but an accident associated with them.   AB00153

Know that when the lights of Divine Unity and the effulgence of the radiance of Oneness dawned upon the manifestations of creation from the heaven of Will and the atmosphere of Purpose, nothing came into being except that it served to guide souls to the Dawning-Place of creation and His bountiful Countenance. In this station may be understood what was mentioned aforetime in the tradition: I have not seen a thing except that I saw God before it, after it, or with it.  BH00081

The Command hath descended from the primal causes in all things until it reached the station of letters. In that station God made the name of the letter of unity and its mystery His Word, corresponding to the higher realm. Those possessed of understanding know not what is there except through what is here. God, through His subtle handiwork, hath joined the letter Vav with Ha, as no specification can be seen in the letters themselves, and it is closest to the Source.  BB00010

The Nightingale of Unity twittereth upon the branches of the Divine Tree in the Garden of Beauty with the most hidden of secrets upon yellow leaves, and the Hoopoe of Eternity crieth out upon the twigs of the Lote-Tree of Glory in the thicket of exaltation with the mystery of fidelity, that verily there is no God but Him and that the Primal Point is His servant and His beauty, and that the guides of the Living One are the letters of His Cause, all working by His command.  BH00181

Until now they have not found true unity and have not comprehended the station of the Day of God. They cling to vain imaginings, return to vain imaginings, and are oriented towards vain imaginings. Praise and gratitude be to Him that thou hast attained and beheld the Most Exalted Horizon, and been honored to hear that for which ears were created. Strive that perchance thou mayest, with joy and fragrance, illumine the people of the world with the effulgent rays of the Sun of true unity.   BH00692

And by these stations their ranks become manifest, if ye would understand. All these are stations in the manifestations of mirrors when the Sun shines forth, yet in these days ye inquire not about the Sun. Then bear witness that It hath ever been one in Its essence, one in Its attributes, and one in Its deeds, and apart from this no verdict of absolute unity can be established for It, nor can the sanctification of Its essence from similitude and limitation be confirmed, if ye would understand.  BH00011

When thou hast unified thy Lord in the station of the Essence through negating names and attributes, through effacing signs and obliterating tokens and forgetting all existence, then hast thou comprehended thine essence to the extent it can bear of grace. Therein doth the land of camphor shine with the light of its Lord, and the swelling sea with the remembrance of its Creator, and the Tree of Sinai with the praise of its Revealer, and the leaves of manifestation with the conditions of their Originator.  BB00032

Yet others, assisted by the grace of the everlasting Friend, consume these veils with the fire of His love and step into the meads of ancient glory. That is, forsaking the wilderness of the "unity of existence", they attain unto the ultimate abode of the "true appearance of the Divine Unity". So clearly will they witness in this stage God's all-encompassing mercy that in every created thing, both in the world and in the souls of men, they will behold Him Who hath been interpreted as the Holy Outpouring.   BH00693

And do Thou establish this Tree by Thy power which hath sustained the heavens and the earth and all that is between them, and send down upon it at every moment the water of Thy mercy from the places of Thy manifestation, that it may bring forth at all times the fruits of Thy sanctification, the gardens of Thy glorification, and whatsoever beseemeth the loftiness of Thy praise, the sublimity of Thy holiness, the elevation of Thy oneness, the inaccessibility of Thy magnification, and the joy of Thy uniqueness.   BB00198

I testify, and all things testify, that everything to which the name of a thing can be applied, from the beginning that hath no beginning to the end that hath no end, are Thy servants, prostrate before Thy face, humble before Thy Being, thankful for Thy presence, praising Thy countenance, submissive to Thy Lordship, and lowly before Thy divinity. There is nothing that doth not sanctify Thy Being, glorify Thy remembrance, magnify Thy holiness, extol Thy might, revere Thy grandeur, proclaim Thy singleness, and honor Thy transcendence.  BB00005

O people! What relationship can there be between the Imagined and the Self-Subsisting, and what similarity between creation and the Creator, when they were created by the stroke of His Pen, and this effect itself is sanctified, holy and exempt from all else? And passing beyond this station, consider in the station of signs that the sun is one of the divine signs. Can one consider it in the same station as darkness? Nay, by His very Self, the Truth! None would speak thus save he whose heart is straitened and whose vision is dimmed.  BH00245

I testify, and all things testify, to that which Thou hast testified concerning Thyself, and all things bear witness thereunto, that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee, alone, without peer. And no heart can know from anything, for above that there is no victory in affirming Your unity, nor below this is there abasement for one whom You have forsaken by Your power. I testify with my heart, my spirit, my soul, my body, my hearing, my sight, my blood, my skin, my hair, and all that You have caused me to possess, that there is no God but You.   BB00051

Then after this, Thou didst create by Thy will and manifest all beings by Thy wisdom, and didst send unto them Messengers from Thy presence and reveal unto them Books from Thy side, and didst manifest Thyself unto the chosen ones among Thy Messengers through the lights of Thy mighty Self-Subsistence, and didst raise them to the heights of Thy glorious Divinity, such that Thou didst make them the Dawning-Places of Thy oneness and the Manifestations of Thy Self-Sufficiency and the Daysprings of Thy Identity and the repositories of Thy eternal wisdom.   BH01699

Indeed, how eloquent, profound, firm and sound is the way the Lord of all worlds relates in the Qur'an the stories of those who came before, showing that triumph belongs to the mighty Divine Power. The tribes of 'Ad and Thamud, with all their might, power and courage, were defeated and destroyed before the Divine Power. The obstinate Nimrod, with all his greatness and power, what could he do against the Cause of God? His Majesty Pharaoh, with all his glory, strength, power, civilization and mighty sovereignty, what advantage did he gain in resisting the Divine Power?  ABU0189

His beginning hath had no beginning other than His Own firstness and His end knoweth no end save His Own lastness. All the most excellent Names belong to the Will, while the depth of His Essence is sanctified above any Name or praise, the purity (kafur) of His indivisible unity (sadhij) is exalted above any glory or loftiness, and the substance of His transcendence is glorified above any height or sublimity. He is the First, yet not defined by it, and He is the Last, but not described by it. He is the Seen, and not praised by it, and He is Hidden, and not recognized by it.  BB00001

Glorified art Thou, O my Lord and my Beloved! I render thanks unto Thee for the wondrous favors of Thy oneness, which Thou hast caused to flow forth and hast sent down from the heaven of Thy holy Being. By Thy might, O my God! Thy favors have attained such heights that no point can be seen in Thy kingdom but that from it have been detailed the mysteries of the wisdom of the sovereignty of Thy Lordship, and no speck of dust can be found but that it testifies of itself, by itself, to Thy unity through that which hath shone upon it from the effulgences of the lights of Thy oneness.   BH01266

When He desired to make Himself known unto His servants and to manifest the signs of His power to all who are in His heaven and on His earth, He removed the veil from the beauty of His concealment and lifted the covering from the essence of His majesty, that thereby His manifest Name might be distinguished from His hidden Name, and His first Name might be differentiated from His last Name, that the word might be fulfilled in the unseen and the visible, in the hidden and the manifest, that He is the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden, and that He is cognizant of all things.  BH00073

Praise be to God, Who causeth the oceans of light to surge with divine, fiery waters; Who stirreth up the letters of manifestation through the Point of the Divine Cloud of Unity; Who unfoldeth the mountain of the unseen from the heaven of manifestation - the essence of hiddenness and the countenance of eternity; and Who causeth the Point of Lordship to revolve in the most glorious and eternal manner - that all may testify that verily He is the Truth, there is no God but Him, and that He is indeed the Single, the One, the Eternal, Who begetteth not nor is begotten, and there is none like unto Him  BH00267

Let thy self praise God, thy mind proclaim there is none other God but Him, and thy heart declare God is Most Great. Look not upon these Manifestations with the eye of difference, for this is not the path of those endowed with insight and understanding. Rather, He Who created you is He Who sustains you, and He Who created you is He Who causes you to die, and He Who causes you to die is He Who gives you life. No partner hath He in His work and no rival hath He in His dominion. These are mirrors proclaiming that there is none other God but Him - He creates what He willeth and doeth what He pleaseth.  BB00247

It is clear and evident that, in this Dispensation wherein the banner of utterance hath been raised aloft and the candle of discernment hath been lit, there is no Lord but the Exalted One. He it is Who is one in His essence and one in His attributes, single in the kingdom of names and peerless in the realm of actions. It is by virtue of His blessed name that the seas of Divine Unity have been made to surge; it is through the power of His resistless command that the immutable decrees of destiny have been enforced; it is through the potency of His sovereign might that the dictates of fate have been fixed.  BH01050

When thou art illumined by the gleaming rays of the Sun of Utterance in the first sphere, manifest from pre-existence - not the pre-existence that is manifest through pre-existence - and when thou art enlightened by the effulgences that have shone forth from the light of the Morn of the pre-existence of meanings in the second sphere, then know thou the Command of God in the station of the Vav in the five stations: the Vav of the Gates, of the Imams, of the Pillars, of the Deputy, and of the Beloved, even as We have taught thee concerning the manifestation of the meaning of the surging ocean of Oneness after Unity.  BB00006

And as to what you asked about unity (tawhid), this station has been elaborately explained in numerous tablets from the Divine Authoritative Pen, sufficient for all the peoples of the world. You should endeavor to collect, as much as possible, the Persian and Arabic books that have been revealed from the Divine Source in this Most Great Revelation. There remains no knowledge except that which has been mentioned in the tablets of my Lord and your Lord, and no station except that which has been detailed therein. In one of the Persian tablets He says, exalted be His glory and sublime be His praise: The purpose of unity is not to consider two as one, rather its purpose is to consider the One as sanctified above all, for He is not associated with His creation nor is He known through any other than Himself. And one should observe the lights of His manifestations in all things, that is, to see all things sustained by Him and dependent upon Him. This is the station wherein He says "God was, and there was nothing else besides Him." He has ever been, in the heights of inaccessibility and in the summit of exaltation, sanctified above all things and ever shall be. Some who count themselves among the people of unity are walking on the shore of polytheism and wandering in the wilderness of multiplicity, yet they do not perceive it. In another place He says, exalted be His remembrance: "Through My Name were raised the banners of unity and were planted the standards of detachment" to the end of His holy utterance, exalted be His remembrance. And these stations depend upon acceptance of the Truth, for if a person should practice unity his entire life, yet if from the Pen of the Cause a word of negation is revealed concerning him, he would be counted among the people of polytheism. As you observe, most nations today utter the blessed words "There is no God but God," yet in the sight of God they were not and will not be considered among the people of unity, as the Supreme Pen has testified in most tablets to the polytheism of those souls. Today it is incumbent upon the one who turns to God not to look to what he or others possess. He must purify his ears from all that the people possess to hear the divine utterances, that he might attain to what God has intended. In brief, whosoever is accepted today is counted among the people of unity, and without this he is deprived and forbidden.  BH00199

As for his state of anger, it was due to God's manifestation to him, whereby his inner and outer being were drawn to God at the station of His manifestation. In this station, his identity and overwhelming power tell of none save God alone. Thus he attributed the unseen to God alone, metaphorically indicating that his knowledge of the unseen is God's knowledge, and there is no account save of God. None knows the unseen save God, for he was in the station of manifesting his knowledge of Divine Unity, and that station is one of pure oneness and absolute obscurity, wherein there is no mention of self save of God's signs alone   BB00307

Since the affirmation of affirmation is contingent upon affirming the Manifestation of Affirmation, it is for this reason that the mention of prophethood has become conjoined with the mention of divine unity. For whosoever fails to acknowledge the second will remain veiled from the first. Therefore in every Dispensation, the Exponents of God have hastened to exalt and elevate His Throne, and have striven to establish and glorify the Seat of His transcendent Oneness, so that through this means the Sun of the Divine Unity might shine upon the mirrors of all created things, making them ready to receive the Word of Unity in the next Resurrection.  BB00005

Whoso speaketh in the Dispensation of the Bayan the word There is none other God but God, he hath turned unto God through Him, even as the Beginning of his creation hath been caused through Him, and it is through Him that the Return of his creation shall be carried out. The fruit of this true knowledge is this, that in the Day of Resurrection, ye would not say that we bear witness unto the word There is none other God but God, and that this is the root pillar of religion. For all that ye bear witness is merely a shadow of His Transcendent Sun, which hath been manifested in His first Revelation, while He Himself is more true to this word, than the truth of the inmost realities of all created beings to their own being.  BB00001

How many there are who glorify and unify Him throughout all days and nights, yet are among the most heedless of servants, for they recognize not Him Whom they unify at morn and eventide. And how many a believer in divine unity is today a polytheist before God, though he perceiveth it not within himself and is numbered among the idolaters. Consider, for example, the philosophers and the leading figures among the Shaykhis - they established four degrees of divine unity: unity of Essence, then of Attributes, of Actions, and of Worship. They bid people to believe in their doctrines and have written numerous books to prove these four degrees. Yet they remain veiled from Him Whose knowledge they sought to prove to themselves.  BH11628

And upon the other are two rivers in the lands of the West - that is, he who refused, grew proud, turned away and retreated, frowned and denied, drew back on his heels, led his two companions astray, and whose face was covered with the dust of fire, known as the Calf, who burned in the lowest fires with the flames of remoteness. Indeed, God bestowed upon him the grace of approaching the two rivers which branched from the Most Great Sea, flowing in the name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Ancient, the two Most Exalted Names and the two adorned inscriptions which gave glad tidings to the nations of the manifestation of the Ancient Beauty, the Primal Point, and awakened the people to the rising of the Most Great Luminary from the horizon of guidance.  AB00017

I bear witness before Thee and before all things that there is no God but Thee, alone with no partner. Thine is the kingdom and the dominion, Thine the might and the sovereignty, Thine the power and divinity, Thine the strength and majesty, Thine the dominion and the realm, Thine the glory and grandeur, Thine the countenance and beauty, Thine the face and perfection, Thine the might and deeds, Thine the similitude and parables, Thine the mercy and grace, Thine the authority and justice, Thine the greatness and sublimity, Thine the bounty and favor, Thine the loftiness and elevation, Thine the power and invincibility, Thine the joy and gladness, Thine the tribulation and detachment, Thine the grandeur and majesty, Thine is all that is seen and unseen from the highest heights to the first speck of dust.  BB00003
