Say: All Revelations have ended with this Most Great Revelation. Beware lest ye follow any ignorant doubter.   BH00468

The Promised One of the Blessed Beauty will come after a thousand years or thousands of years.   ABU0736

The sovereignty of God has no beginning and no end and the outpouring of His bounties is endless.   ABU2314

until the Manifestation who will come after the thousand years. This is the truth, and after truth there is nothing but manifest error.   AB06626

Say: The Revelations have reached their end. Whosoever before the completion of a thousand years maketh any claim, whosoever he may be and whatsoever he may bring forth, is false and untrue.   BH00601

By those words which I have revealed, Myself is not intended, but rather He Who will come after Me. To it is witness God, the All-Knowing.... Deal not with Him as ye have dealt with Me.  BH11369

By those words which I have revealed, Myself is not intended, but rather He Who will come after Me. To it is witness God, the All-Knowing.... Deal not with Him as ye have dealt with Me.  BH11369

Were someone to appear every day, the Cause of God would not be established in the cities and lands. This is a Manifestation that revealeth Himself but once in every five hundred thousand years. Thus have We lifted the veil and removed the coverings. Blessed is he who hath recognized the purpose of God - whoso knoweth it, his heart rejoiceth and he remaineth steadfast in the Cause in such wise that all creation cannot deflect him therefrom. We have disclosed in this Tablet one of the mysteries of this Revelation, and have concealed that which is hidden lest the clamor of the ungodly be raised.  BH00902

The moment when I spoke unto Muhammad what I spoke - that was the first instance of the Day of Resurrection, and what was decreed until that day was five years. Should God will, He could decree for each nine nineteen ten moments like unto a thousand thousand years, or that which none can reckon save God. However, what God hath mentioned regarding fifty [thousand] years was what was previously revealed in the Qur'an, that ye may be mindful.  BB00004

My proof hath been My manifestations of power that have encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth, and I have made verses the path to My knowledge as a grace from Us to all the worlds. And since My previous Manifestation designated verses as the proof of this most mighty, most holy and most glorious Manifestation, We have therefore caused verses to be sent down from the heaven of Will and have established them as proof for all who are in the heavens and on earth. Until this Manifestation, verses alone have been proof for all, for We had sent down this decree in all previous Books. Although in this Manifestation all signs of power, manifest proofs, wondrous verses, glorious manifestations and divine attributes have appeared - and all this as a grace from Us to all created things - yet henceforth the matter resteth in God's hands, that He may designate what shall be proof for future Manifestations. We shall soon send down His decree in the Tablets, for verily We have ever been the Ruler over all things. All matters are within Our mighty grasp; We do what We will and decree what We please. For in this Manifestation God, exalted be His mention, hath willed that many of the sincere seekers should speak in verses. Therefore We shall, by His command and His will, ordain what shall constitute proof of the next Manifestation, lest anyone who produceth words should exalt himself over God, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Almighty  BH11742

what will appear after the manifestation of the Qa'im regarding the mysteries of the world of being, realities of things, arts and wonders, human knowledge, hidden secrets and guarded mysteries, is equivalent to twenty-five letters.   AB03186

Concerning the holy Manifestations who will come in the future "in the shadows of the clouds" - in terms of receiving divine bounty they are under the shadow of the Ancient Beauty, but in terms of their outpouring they "do whatsoever they will."   AB03565

It is not however definite that it will be one thousand years; it may be 2000 or 10.000 or 20.000 yrs; but it is definite that for the coming one thousand years there shall appear no Manifestation; for one thousand years there shall arise no sun.   ABU0128

He said: 'Great events would happen and people will become irreligious. There will be tumult and because of irreligion there will be such confusion that all will be indistress. Then they will return to religion. As long as there is no religion, the happiness of the world of man is impossible.'   ABU0402

The last of the Days of Judgment will dawn, when the Prophetic Cycle will have come to an end and the world returns to God, when all becomes lost in Him through the crashing and bursting of the elements, which means annihilation for those turned away from God, but spiritualization for those resting in God, and for those souls still in need of purification and development it is a triumphant sinking into God's infinite grace and mercy.  ABU0170

O Pen! Write upon the Tablet and inform the people that the Manifestations have ended with this luminous, resplendent Manifestation. Whosoever claims this most mighty, most great, and most precious station before the completion of a thousand years hath indeed fabricated a lie against God and is of the mischief-makers, for thereby the Cause of God would be corrupted and His command would not be established among His believing servants.   BH01391


if any soul should appear with all the verses before the completion of a full thousand years - each year comprising twelve months according to what was revealed in the Qur'an, or nineteen months according to what was revealed in the Bayan where each month consists of nineteen days - you must never acknowledge him. In one of the Tablets it is revealed: "Whosoever makes a claim before the completion of a full thousand years is a lying impostor. We beseech God to graciously assist him to retract and repent. If he repents, God will verily turn unto him. If he persists in what he claims, a bearer of divine chastisement will be sent who will deal mercilessly with him. Verily God is severe in punishing!"   BH00312


As for the "thousand years" mentioned in the Most Holy Book - this means that before the thousand years any Manifestation is absolutely impossible and inconceivable, and all holy souls are under His blessed shadow. But after the conventional thousand years among people it is not impossible or inconceivable. Now that period could potentially be extended - each day could represent a thousand years, as stated in the Qur'an: "Verily a day with thy Lord is as a thousand years." The meaning is that after the passing of the conventional thousand years among people, a second Manifestation is not immediately ordained - it could be extended much longer.   AB01325

The meaning of this is that any individual who, before the expiry of a full thousand years--years known and clearly established by common usage and requiring no interpretation--should lay claim to a Revelation direct from God, even though he should reveal certain signs, that man is assuredly false and an impostor. This is not a reference to the Universal Manifestation, for it is clearly set forth in the Holy Writings that centuries, nay thousands of years, must pass on to completion, before a Manifestation like unto this Manifestation shall appear again. It is possible, however, that after the completion of a full thousand years, certain Holy Beings will be empowered to deliver a Revelation: this, however, will not be through a Universal Manifestation.  AB01673

By God! I fear not for Myself, but for him who shall come after Me with mighty and impregnable sovereignty. By God! Whoso objecteth unto Me shall object unto him.   BH01392


That Light of Truth - its outpouring is all-encompassing and its grace is perfect, whether in the Day of Manifestation or after its setting. Its Day is a thousand years and its cycle is a hundred thousand years. AB07279

Baha'o'llah said that this cycle of Baha'o'llah would last about 400,000 years.   ABU1009

His Day is five hundred thousand years and His Dispensation will endure unto eternity.  AB12600

Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation direct from God, ere the expiration of a full thousand years, such a man is assuredly a lying impostor.  BH00001

The Divine Manifestation Baha'u'llah is the Lord of His Cycle, Master and Lord of His Age, which may last for a thousand years, but which may, in accordance with the development of mankind toward truth and unity, come to its conclusion before a thousand years are up.   ABU0227

The revelation ended with Him Who conversed on Sinai, and this cycle will extend for a thousand years, nay, a hundred thousand years. My purpose is this, that ere the expiration of a thousand years, no one has the right to utter a single word, even to claim the station of Guardianship.  AB00203

Know thou furthermore that the Revelations have ended with this Most Great, this Most Mighty Revelation. Whosoever shall lay claim to this exalted, mighty and impregnable station before the completion of a thousand years, hath indeed corrupted the Cause and falsely attributed that which is not unto God, thy Lord and the Lord of all creation.   BH01062

Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation direct from God, ere the expiration of a full thousand years, such a one is assuredly a lying impostor. We pray God that He may graciously assist him to retract and repent. Should he repent, God will, no doubt, forgive him. If he persisteth in his error, God will, assuredly, send down one who will deal mercilessly with him.  BH00812

Concerning the thousand years mentioned in the Bayan, He says whosoever claims a Cause - it does not mean that a Manifestation like the Ancient Beauty would not appear for a thousand or thousands or multitudes of years. Rather, it means that before the thousand years, no one can claim any matter whatsoever. All must be completely obedient and submissive, and gathered beneath the Word of God.  AB09911

By My life! The Revelations have ended with this Most Great Revelation. Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation before the completion of a full thousand years, such a one is assuredly a lying impostor. And whosoever interpreteth this verse is one who hath turned away from the All-Merciful and is counted among the losers. Although for those possessed of insight, mention was made aforetime of the dominion of Husayn lasting eighty thousand years, yet the people of Baha must at least hold to a thousand years.   BH01043

Wherefore every day of the cycle of the Blessed Beauty is in reality equal to one year, and every year of it is equal to a thousand years. As to the cycle of the Blessed Beauty--the times of the Greatest Name--this is not limited to a thousand or two thousand years.… When it is said that the period of a thousand years beginneth with the Manifestation of the Blessed Beauty and every day thereof is a thousand years, the intent is a reference to the cycle of the Blessed Beauty, which in this context will extend over many ages into the unborn reaches of time.  AB01673

As for what thou hast mentioned regarding certain differences, this is what hath been sent down in the Tablets from thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed: "Whoso layeth claim to a Cause before the completion of a full thousand years is verily a lying impostor. And whoso interpreteth this verse differently is indeed among the most lost." And in another Tablet: "Whoso layeth claim to a Cause before the completion of a full thousand years is verily a lying impostor. We beseech God that He may assist him to repent should he repent. Verily thy Lord is the Ever-Forgiving. And should he persist in what he hath claimed, there shall be raised up against him one who will show him no mercy. Verily thy Lord is severe in punishment." For these souls have been and shall continue to be the cause of harm to the root of the Cause and the source of discord among the people. Were it to be thus, that every ignorant one might understand as he pleased, then never would the divine Tree of the Cause be established amongst men, nor would God's commandments and laws become effective and operative. Strange indeed is the lack of understanding among the people! However, some attribute certain things to others out of their selfish desires, but with thy Lord is the knowledge of all things in a clear Book. BH00965

A question was asked about the phrase 'seventy thousand years' which appears in the statements of Baha'u'llah.  Answer: The intention is temporal extension, meaning the laws and ordinances of this dispensation will undoubtedly manifest in the world even if it takes several thousand years.  ABU3151

Thou hast asked concerning the blessed verse "From the heaven to the earth He ordereth all things, and hereafter shall they come up to Him on a day whose length shall be a thousand of such years as ye reckon." By this "day" is meant the Day of the Great Resurrection, the Day of Judgement, for on that Day there shall appear such signs and events, such splendours and occurrences, marvels and wonders, truths and mysteries, precepts and writings, that the revelation of those splendours and signs cannot be contained even in fifty thousand years. Moreover, the precepts and laws, and the writings, teachings, and manifold bounties associated with that Day, which is none other than the "appointed time of a known day", shall remain valid and binding for a full thousand years, nay for five hundred thousand years. Such a span of time is merely an approximation that alludeth to ages and centuries. And on that appointed Day, the outpourings of divine grace shall visibly descend from the kingdom of mercy and the heaven of oneness.  AB00355

Verily these verses are sealed in this Most Holy, this mighty Manifestation. Whoso claimeth revelation after Him hath indeed lied against the Lord of Baha and this mighty Throne.  BH07583

And likewise He saith: Should anyone, ere the lapse of a full thousand years - that is, make any claim - such a one was and is false. For if the divine Law were to be abrogated every day, no matter in this world would remain constant - this is clear and evident to those endowed with insight.   BH00812

From this thou canst imagine the magnitude of the Baha'i cycle -- a cycle that must extend over a period of at least five hundred thousand years.  AB01330


The minister: "Now tell me, will there be another cycle after this Baha'i cycle?"  The Master: "The sovereignty of God has no beginning and no end and the outpouring of His bounties is endless."   ABU2314

He is the Founder also of the new long cycle of 500,000 years when another great Manifestation will come. In the meantime throughout this coming long cycle of 500,000 years there will be cycles like that of Moses, Jesus, etc., only on a higher scale, as this is the Kingdom of Heaven on Earth. None will be as great as Baha'u'llah until 500,000 years is accomplished.   ABU3763

For the universal outpouring of grace, the all-pervading mercy, the Beauty of the Divine Essence, and the Ocean of Oneness are not always in flow, in expansion, in manifestation, and in surge. The outward spring, which is charged with the nurturing of all visible things by the command of the Creator of Names, appeareth but once a year, and likewise the spiritual spring, which traineth spirits and illumined hearts and bestoweth eternal and everlasting life, doth appear but once in a thousand years or more, conferring upon all things, both seen and unseen, the garment of existence and the revelation of divine lordship.  BH00507

As the Pen of the Ancient of Days and the Most Great Name now declares: should anyone appear with all the signs before the completion of a full thousand years - each year comprising twelve months according to what was revealed in the Furqan, and nineteen months according to what was revealed in the Bayan, with each month being nineteen days - you must never believe them. In one of the Tablets it is revealed: "Whosoever lays claim to a Cause before the completion of a full thousand years is verily a lying impostor. We beseech God that He might graciously help him to retract and repent. Should he repent, God will surely turn unto him. If he persists in his claim, God will assuredly send one who will deal mercilessly with him. Verily God is severe in punishing!" For the harm of such souls returns to the Divine Tree itself and has been and will be the cause of dissension, disputation, strife, the wavering of weak hearts, and the instability of the Cause among the people.  BH00199

None but God is aware of the completion of a cycle. Sometimes perfection appears in less than that, and sometimes it does not appear in a thousand years or more. It is very clear that the perfection of all things is through God's confirmation, not through length of time and the appearance of people's vain imaginings. The very appearance of a subsequent Manifestation is itself proof of the perfection of what appeared in the previous Manifestation. Look to the Truth, not to the length of time and season, for the Truth is able to cause all times to pass in an instant, or to extend a single instant to a hundred thousand years. His is the creation and the command; all act by His command.  BH00004

It hath been known that until now the details of this most wondrous and most glorious Manifestation have not been mentioned. Were they to be mentioned, all would testify that He is the One Whom no one hath preceded and none shall succeed. Whosoever claims before the thousand years hath fabricated against God, for thereby the Cause would be corrupted and the temple of the Divine Will would not be established upon the throne of mighty glory. At the beginning of this exalted Manifestation, verses were revealed concerning this matter, some of which are mentioned in certain Tablets. Witness them that ye may be steadfast in the Cause and be of the firm ones.   BH00004

Concerning what was asked about the blessed verse revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, His words, blessed and exalted be He: "Whoso layeth claim to a Cause before the completion of a full thousand years..." etc. This matter was presented, and this is what the Tongue of Grandeur spoke: "O thou who gazeth upon the Countenance and circleth round the Cause..." That which all are bound to recognize hath been revealed in this blessed verse, and all are obliged to acknowledge it and hold fast to it. Most of the ignorant are heedless and walk in the paths of delusion, and most people are unaware. Therefore was this blessed verse revealed as a bounty, that they might not follow every barking dog and become the cause of dissipating the Cause of God.  BH00051

And as for the blessed verse: "Whoso layeth claim to a Cause ere the completion of a full thousand years..." -- the beginning of this "thousand" is the Manifestation of the Blessed Beauty. Each of its days is a thousand years -- "Verily, a day with thy Lord is as a thousand years of what you reckon" -- and each year is three hundred and sixty-five thousand years. This mention of "a thousand" betokeneth the utmost extremity of number, for numbers end at a thousand: units, tens, hundreds, and thousands; thereafter there is but repetition. The Cycle of the Blessed Beauty is endless. Only after ages and epochs have passed, and when entirely the Tablets, Books, Writings, invocations and traces of this Dispensation shall have been effaced, to the degree that naught of the teachings of the Blessed Beauty remaineth in men's hands, then will a new Manifestation appear. Otherwise, so long as the traces, Tablets, teachings, utterances, mysteries and lights of the Blessed Beauty are manifest in the world of existence, there shall be no appearance, no rising, no forth-going of another Dispensation.  AB04989
