Outside of Teheran We had a great park planted by the Father of the Beloved Perfection. This was a wonderful garden. It contained our gates, Eastern, Western, Northern and Southern. As you entered the Eastern gate, the Western gate was visible, similarly form the Northern you can see the Southern gate, In the Center of the garden a great throne was built and four straight avenues branching off toward the gates,- so that you could see all the four gates as you sat on that throne. On both sides of these avenues, poplar trees were planted to the number of ten thousand. These trees rising erect and majestic toward the sky. Under these trees thousands of rose bushes were planted, the fragrance of which filled the air. Often we used to sleep at night on this throne. The moon clear, full, silvery stone upon us, the galaxies of the stars shedding their rays, now faintly and again with a lustrous twinkle over the calm and mystic scene of the garden. Long before sunrise, I would open my eyes admiring with wonder this infinite universe of God. Then all at once the nightingales, in sweet melodies break into sweet concert of divine music, the gentle murmur of the rills flowing on all rides reached to the ears and the zephyr passing through the leaves making the noise of a soft sweeping handclap and applause. In the early morning the blessed Perfection would rise and prepare tea for all of us and while the sun was dawning from the Eastern horizon we were gathered around him, drinking tea and enjoying the heavenly scene all around us.  ABU1439

In the days of Our childhood, one day We went to visit one of the noble ladies who was adorned with kinship. After entering, We observed two persons with exceedingly large turbans who were expounding spiritual knowledge from behind a veil to the lady of the house. Finally, their discourse culminated in one of them, who was the greater and more prominent, stating that we must know whether Gabriel is higher than Qanbar. When this Wronged One heard these words, His whole being was set aflame, yet We chose silence. After a few minutes it was mentioned: "O honored one, if Gabriel is he who is referred to in 'The Faithful Spirit brought it down upon thy heart', then at that station Master Qanbar was not even present." Now consider the heedlessness and unsuitable knowledge of the people. The station of Gabriel is the inner reality of the Messenger of God, yet he was arguing that Qanbar was more exalted because he was related to Ali. Glory be to God! That party inflicted upon the Messenger of God a wrong that had and has no equal. In difficulties they should take refuge with Him, yet His mention is entirely absent while they cling to letters that were created by His Word, as ye have seen and continue to see.  BH00226

In the days of Our childhood, one day We went to visit the grandmother of the Most Great Branch during the time when she was married to the late Mirza Isma'il-i-Vazir. Upon arrival, We observed a person wearing a large turban sitting there with another individual. From behind a special curtain, that holy and believing leaf made inquiries. Among other things, she mentioned that we must know and understand who was higher - Gabriel or Qanbar, the servant of the Prince of Believers. Although this Wronged One had not yet reached physical maturity, He was greatly amazed at the understanding of those two heedless ones. In any case, that person, in his own imagination, counted such utterances among divine knowledge and supposed himself to have ascended to the highest station of mystical insight, unaware that he was recorded and numbered before God as among the worshippers of names. After pausing for a few minutes, this Wronged One stated that if Gabriel was the one referred to in the Mighty Book where it states "The Faithful Spirit hath descended with it upon thy heart," then Qanbar had no station in comparison. And when We journeyed to the land of Qum, this same person was present there. Repeatedly, similar words were heard from him in several places. Among them, one day he mentioned that we must know who was higher - Salman or 'Abbas. What fruit or effect have they observed from such discussions, and what is gained from such mentions? The purpose is that the people of God should know that those people were worshippers of vain imaginings and for this reason were deprived of the recognition of Truth, exalted be His glory, in the days of His Manifestation. We hope that such matters will not appear in this Revelation. May they know the Truth as Truth and creation as creation. Blessed are the fair-minded.  BH00018

This Wronged One, in the land of Ta [Tehran], would fast on the eve of Ashura, and on the following day would partake of tea and bread after noon. This was the practice of the Wronged One, and some of the souls present are aware of this and know it.  BH00218


Mirza Taqi became very frightened, for if the Blessed Beauty were killed, there would be bloodshed between two tribes. Therefore, he arranged for them to remove the bricks from behind the platform, and when they reached the last layer, to suddenly collapse it and thus extricate the Blessed Beauty from among the crowd, so that the people could not reach Him. He brought the Blessed Beauty to his own house, and the people rushed to the governor's residence. Thus the Blessed Beauty proceeded to Darreh-Gaz, and during this time Muhammad Shah sent a messenger with orders to kill the Blessed Beauty wherever He might be found.  ABU0273

Yes, when We were in the prison of Shimiran, before the manifestation of the Greatest Spectacle, the noble princes, including Murad Mirza titled Husam-us-Saltanih, Farhad Mirza, and Imam-Quli Mirza titled Imad-ud-Dawlih, along with Sayf-ud-Dawlih, son of Zill-us-Sultan, came twice to the prison and attained the blessed presence. As for Fereydun Mirza, titled Farmanfarma, the Ancient Beauty visited his house once since he lived in the vicinity.  BH00304

The time of the Blessed Beauty was spent in the manner described until the appearance of The Bab, but when The Bab declared himself, the Blessed Beauty began to spread the cause of The Bab.   ABU0497



In my childhood, this wronged one read in a book by Mulla Baqir Majlisi about the raid on the Banu Qurayzah. From that moment I was distressed and full of sorrow, to the extent that my pen cannot express it -- even though what happened was the decree of God, and its intent was only to foil oppressors. But when the ocean of forgiveness and grace appeared, therefore in those days I beseeched God for that which was the cause of love, fellowship and unity among all who are on earth -- until, on the second of the month of the Birth before the Dawning, all my mental states, my words and thoughts, were turned upside down, an inversion that bore the glad-tidings of the Ascent. This revolution was manifest for twelve days continuously and unremittingly. Afterwards, the waves of the ocean of utterance appeared, and the effulgences of the luminary of tranquillity were radiant. Then the matter eventuated in a time of full revelation (zuhur), when I attained to that which God rendered the basis of the joy of the worlds and the dawn of bestowal on all who dwell in the heavens and the earth. After the Most High Pen [the Bab], We abrogated all that which was the cause of hardship and discomfort and strife by Our decisive decree, and We revealed and implemented all that which was a source of concord and unity. BH02329

At one time the government of Iran wished to grant Taliqan as a fief to the Blessed Beauty, but when the call of the Supreme Concourse was raised and the lights of the Abha Kingdom shone forth, the government changed its mind   AB03379

Had the Amir-Nizam been aware of My true position, he would certainly have laid hold on Me. He exerted the utmost effort to discover the real situation, but was unsuccessful. God wished him to be ignorant of it.  BHU0044

the country house and mansion of Baha'u'llah in Mazindaran were seized and destroyed by the oppressors.   AB04701

One day, as the Blessed Beauty was traveling from Kazimayn to Baghdad, He remarked how far removed the Shi'ih people were from proper conduct, for despite their belief in the tradition "The believer is alive in both worlds", they would enter holy places with mouths reeking of garlic and onions and wearing unclean attire. He said that He was not affected by such unpleasant odors to a degree that could be expressed.  BHU0006

In Tehran one night we had everything, the next morning all was plundered. It reached the point where we did not have sustenance to stay alive. I was hungry with no bread. My mother would pour some flour in my hand which I would eat in place of bread.   ABU1073

When Baha'u'llah returned from His pilgrimage to Karbala, the brother of the Grand Vizir Abbas Goli Khan according to the custom of the country invited him to stay with him the first few days of his arrival. Baha'u'llah accepted the invitation and took possession of the quarters which were prepared for him.  ABU1551

The Amir-Nizam asked Us one day to see him. He received Us cordially, and revealed the purpose for which he had summoned Us to his presence... We vehemently protested against such accusations, and refused to accept the position he hoped to offer Us. A few days after that interview, We left Tihran for Karbila.  BHU0018

This servant was not among the learned ones and had not traveled to distant lands, and according to outward appearance was born in the household of one of the government officials and was related to him.  BH11395

At a time when the forces of Prince Mihdi-Quli Mirza had besieged the fort of Tabarsi, We resolved to depart from Nur and lend Our assistance to its heroic defenders...The hand of Omnipotence spared Us from their fate and preserved Us for the work We were destined to accomplish.  BHU0002

On the second day of Muharram 1233, the blessed birth occurred in Tehran, in the Shimran Gate quarter, in the columned mansion in the garden courtyard. The mother of the Blessed Beauty was completely devoted to Him, to such a degree that she had no rest and was astonished by His blessed conditions. For instance, she would say that this Child never cried, and none of the traits seen in other nursing infants were observed in this Child, such as screaming, wailing, crying, lamenting, restlessness and agitation.  ABU0123

From early childhood He achieved an extraordinary reputation among family and relations, for this child possessed a remarkable power and showed great distinction in understanding and intelligence. All were astonished at His intense acumen. Some would say this child would not live long, for it was believed that brilliant children did not survive. When He reached maturity, He never attended any school nor had any teacher - this was well known to all. Nevertheless, He would solve difficult problems. When He attended scholarly gatherings, all would ask Him important questions and He would give sufficient answers.  ABU0223

Since We were renowned among the ministers of Iran, they all expressed friendship toward Us, but they feared lest some dangerous command concerning Us might issue from the government. When the government of Tehran heard about the incident at Badasht, where a group was with Us, they swore an oath, saying: Many times I have heard things about him and overlooked them, but this time I will surely kill him. They had issued orders to the chiefs of Mazandaran to arrest Us and execute Us. However, His Majesty passed away. Later, the Amir-Nizam also said in the assembly of nobles that he had caused much harm to the government, yet he dwells in Tehran in utmost glory. It was a dangerous time, and most of the nobles were urging Me to travel somewhere else.  BHU0005

After His father's ascension, the Blessed Beauty accepted no position. All were amazed that a child of such intelligence, from a family of ministers, would have no desire whatsoever for rank and position, even though any position was possible for the Blessed Beauty. Despite this, He showed the utmost detachment and generosity, giving charity to every poor person and consoling every destitute one. The door of His blessed house was open, and this caused even more wonderment that without accepting any work or position He showed such generosity and munificence. They said the Blessed Beauty would exhaust this wealth since His expenses were unlimited while His income was little, yet with such power He gave no thought to His personal affairs. Some wise ones said that the Blessed Beauty had other thoughts and was pursuing a lofty cause not yet apparent - a day would come when this matter would become clear.  ABU0223

The Blessed Perfection was very young. He was in the early years of life. At this time he was going to Mazaderan. As he was travelling from stage to stage, he arrived at a town called "Yall-Roud". There was in this town a celebrated thinker and lecturer who attracted to his courses of lectures people from all parts of Persia. Thus he was very famous. At night Baha'u'llah called on this thinker and found his room filled with many students and theologians, especially four of them were the followers of the school of Mirza Mohamad Taki. As Baha'u'llah was very young and he had not on his head the insignia of learning which is "Turban" no one gave any attention to him. The lecturer after awhile proposed a tradition to the audience to be interpreted. It was this:- "Verily Fatima was the best woman in the world, except that woman which was born of Mary." Everyone gave his own interpretation but the lecturer waved it aside. Then Baha'u'llah to the amazement of all arose from his seat and asked permission to be allowed to give the interpretation of the tradition. Immediately all the eyes were turned against him in an incredulous manner. He said: - The second sentence in this verse is an "affirmative negation"; because it says "except that woman which was born of Mary." and as we know to Mary was born no girl, therefore it is impossible to find another woman equal to Fatima. She is peerless according to this tradition. When writers desire to say that such a person is better than all the rest of the world, they express their convictions with these literary expressions. For example we might say: This King is the greatest of all the Kings of the past except that King which came down from heaven and as we know well, no King has ever come down from heaven, therefore he is unique and peerless." When the lecturer heard this wonderful explanation he remained silent and the audience realizing their defeat shifted uncomfortably.  Baha'u'llah tactfully withdrew from the room. Then the lecturer addressed his students that he had greater hope in them. He thought it was a shame that upon the learned class that a youth with the hat of a layman on his head should so eloquently explain the real significance of the tradition and the students after years of study be ignorant of it! ABU1364

The Amir-Nizam asked Us one day to see him. He received Us cordially, and revealed the purpose for which he had summoned Us to his presence. 'I am well aware,' he gently insinuated, 'of the nature and influence of your activities, and am firmly convinced that were it not for the support and assistance which you have been extending to Mulla Husayn and his companions, neither he nor his band of inexperienced students would have been capable of resisting for seven months the forces of the imperial government. The ability and skill with which you have managed to direct and encourage those efforts could not fail to excite my admiration. I have been unable to obtain any evidence whereby I could establish your complicity in this affair.'  BHU0018

As for the change of air in Shimran in Murgh-Mahallih, it is a gift of the All-Merciful. That place is not a district of birds - it is the nest of the Phoenix of the East and the dwelling of the Simurgh of Mount Qaf, for the Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) dwelt in that pure and sanctified farm for one summer. In Haji Baqir's garden, which was three stories and overlooked the lake, was the seat of the King of the Kingdom. It was in the beginning of the Cause. In the middle of the lake they had built a large stone platform. In the middle of the platform was a pavilion and around the platform was a garden. Nearly one hundred and fifty of the friends would gather. At night there were songs of glorification that reached the Supreme Concourse. It was a very happy time. The Blessed Beauty would always mention that place.  AB01467


In the early days of the Cause, in the year '65, the Blessed Beauty chose that place because it was somewhat secluded. In summer there was a mountain like this Mount Carmel. At the foot of that mountain there was a garden with a stream of water - most delightful. There was an upper level with a garden and building. From there, one would descend thirty or forty steps to the second level, which also had a garden and grapevines.  ABU0080

The Blessed Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - made two journeys to Baghdad and Karbala. One journey was after the martyrdom of the Bab - may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him - during the time of Mirza Taqi Khan, the Prime Minister Atabik, and one journey was after the attempt on the Shah's life when He was exiled and banished. When the Blessed Beauty was brought from Niyavaran bareheaded and barefooted in chains and fetters to Tihran, Mirza 'Abdu'l-Vahhab attained His presence in the prison.  ABU0352

Last night we were relating the story of the Blessed Beauty's imprisonment. We spoke of the first instance, and now we come to the second. The second time, the Blessed Beauty was imprisoned in Amul, and it happened thus: After Badasht, He proceeded to Nur where He taught the Cause. He went to a village there known as Takur and taught a group of people. All the notable persons of the village became believers, and several of the common folk also embraced the Faith. The only one who did not believe was His uncle, Mirza Azizu'llah.  After Takur, He proceeded to Qishlaq, for Nur has both summer and winter quarters - Takur and Nur being in the summer quarters. He went to Dar-Kula in the winter quarters, and this village belonged to [...]. Day and night He taught, without a moment's rest. Many souls became believers. There were even four mujtahids there, two of whom were sons-in-law of the former mujtahid, Mirza Muhammad-Taqi, and the rest were his relatives. In one gathering, He taught all four mujtahids in such a way that afterward, all four rushed to kiss His blessed shoes. The brother of Mirza Aqa Khan, the Prime Minister, was also among those who accepted the Faith. At that time, Mirza Aqa Khan was the Minister of War....  ABU0011

