He who is with Christ shuns Pharisees and abhors Judas Iscariots.  AB11246

Just as in the time of Christ, when the Pharisees and worshippers were deprived   AB04648

One of the monarchs in France realized that no matter how many Christians were slain, it bore no fruit.  ABU3657

The Standard of the Roman Emperors on account of their opposition to the Cause of God was shattered to pieces.   AB03300

Indeed, all of the foregoing statements are of the evil opinions which the Pharisees used to proclaim through every man's tongue.  AB04596

In the time of Christ, outwardly the acceptance of the disciples had no importance - people mocked them, saying "What station or worth do fishermen have?" They ridiculed and laughed at them.  ABU1544

Study the lives of the Apostles of His Highness Christ, how they were subjected to troubles and tests but eventually those trials became the greatest gift; nay rather their martyrdom was the means of Eternal Life.  AB02715

"The girl, her mother and grandmother went through great hardships. Her grandmother was very good, very noble, had great knowledge, was severed, - was busy continuously with the mention of God, not resting for a moment."  ABU0816

Behold the apostles of His Highness, Christ! They accepted all trials and persecutions and received all kinds of oppression and trouble until they became assisted by great bestowals and confirmed in the guidance of the people.  AB07842

in the Christian Dispensation and the Messianic cycle, after the ascension of the Spirit of Being to His glorious station, all the companions and friends were scattered  AB06396


Consider ye! What calumny, slander, cruelty and oppression were brought down upon the apostles by the Israelites for the sake of faith and assurance! They unlocked the hands of pillage, persecuted and tortured those sanctified souls.  AB01661

The Jews who became Christians in the apostolic and after apostolic age were not attracted to the Christian doctrine by hospitals etc. On the contrary, they were beaten, persecuted and killed. Notwithstanding these things they accepted Christ.   ABU1592

"This aroused jealousy in the Jews who began to make trouble. The multitude, aroused by these seditions, attached the Apostles and beat them until they fell unconscious. Then their bodies were dragged along the road and thrown outside the city."   ABU2367

In the time of Christ, Christians suffered greatly. Twelve massacres took place. In France there was Louis, the King of France, who greatly opposed the Christians. He was exceedingly antagonistic. He strove mightily to uproot Christianity, but failed.   ABU0774

Consider the early centuries, how much the apostles of Christ were reviled and reproached, how they were persecuted and oppressed, and how due to religious prejudice their properties were seized and they were killed, and no extreme of cruelty and oppression was spared.   AB12076

You realize that a thousand Pharisees worshiping in the Holy of Holies were not accepted in the Kingdom: But the disciples, who were fishermen, carpenters, and some other souls, were accepted. Peter, who was a fisherman, was accepted in the Kingdom of GOD, but Caiaphas and some others, while outwardly of the learned ones, were not accepted.   ABU1506

Thou must, no doubt, have read in the Bible how the disciples of His Holiness Jesus Christ were scoffed and scorned at, how they were cursed and vilified, how the Pharisees assaulted and assailed them; and yet, how finally the ensigns of the disciples were hoisted and raised aloft, while the standards of the Pharisees were toppled to the ground.  AB02247

During their lifetime the Apostles were always under taunt and persecution of the enemies and no one deigned to consider their degrees and stations. Now they were prisoners in the dark jail, and anon thrown beneath the contempt and punishment of the adversaries. Finally many of them sacrificed their lives upon the cross for His Highness the Almighty.   AB01504

Read the treatise of Mirza Abu'l-Fadl. It is recorded in church history that among others the Patriarch of Alexandria arose to cast doubts, and one and a half million people followed him, even the Emperor of Constantinople, and he caused a great tumult in the Christian nation. But ultimately he was obliterated and destroyed and fell into evident loss.  AB00366

"Therefore, when men like Caiaphas came in their own name, full of worldly power and qualities, they were accepted by the Jews as leaders of the people. Christ explained their unbelief, their rejection, when He said: How can you be a believer when you are looking to others who are imperfect, and thereby reject the everlasting honor which GOD can give?"  ABU1878

One of the blessed and revered souls who was in reality following Christ, went to the king. After the king asked many questions and received answers he said: 'If one wishes to become a Christian what is one to do? We want to come under this flag of Christ and announce it, so that all our country may become Christian - what are we to do?' The Christians said: 'You have repented - that itself is faith - all your sins will be forgiven, and you will enter the everlasting life.'  ABU0609

God be exalted! Always, in the beginning of the Cause, common souls, who in the estimation of the people, were of no importance whatever, have advanced to the divine Manifestation. For example, these fishermen believed in His Holiness Christ. In the Koran it is revealed that the ignorant of the people would say to His Holiness the Messenger (Mohammed), 'None have followed thee except the most degraded of the people; the learned sages, the nobles and the high class count thee as a fool.'   ABU1258

At first they were alarmed, but then he proved it with arguments and proofs, saying: Consider how the Roman emperors and Eastern kings persecuted them, yet there is no doubt they will ultimately triumph. Therefore it is better that we enter into this Cause. He sent for and summoned some sincere Christians, gave them safety, and asked what one must do to enter the Christian religion. They said to empty one of the great temples, cast out the idols, renovate it, and on Sunday to come to the temple, repent, supplicate and pray.  ABU0175

Gracious God! Although people see with their own eyes that in the dispensation of Christ the eleven disciples were ordinary men who, because of their faith in Him, found eternal life and shone from the horizon of perpetual honor; and that the Jews, with all their worldly honor, became contemptible; and that Caiaphas, the greatest enemy of Christ, was, together with his whole family, obliterated from the face of the earth while a simple fisherman, because of his belief in Christ, became the great Peter, yet, despite all this, still they take no heed.   ABU1377

Where is the authority of the Messiah? Where is the throne of David, the Glorious? Where is his iron rod? Where are his innumerable hosts? Where are his attacking armies? Where are his angels of heaven? Where do we see justice of government existing among people and even among beasts and insects? Where is his great majesty? Where is his power, which shaketh heaven and earth? Is not this a claim of one who is bewildered and wandering amidst valleys and hills? Doth he not ride upon as ass, while on his head there is a crown of thorns and he is despised?  AB03825

Consider when Jesus was asked at the time when the Pharisees had gathered round Him; He said to the questioner: "Thou sayest," and gave no other answer. Thus was the matter ordained in the Book. The hour hath come wherein the Spirit glorified His Lord, but ponder thou that hour whose knowledge was concealed from all who are on earth, and none discovered it save the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Whoso attaineth its recognition at the time of its manifestation hath attained eternal life and entered the Kingdom and partaken of what hath been perfected therein. Blessed is he who hath found the fragrance of the utterance and turned towards it, detached from all else. Beware lest the veils hinder thee. Look, then remember when the Spirit came: He was denied by the Pharisees who possessed knowledge of the Law and its minutiae, while those who caught fish believed in Him, as did those who were publicans. Take heed and be of them that remember. Reflect upon the cause of these men's rejection and the reason for those men's acceptance, that the truth may become manifest to thee and thou mayest behold the light shining from its manifest and luminous horizon. Among the Pharisees were those who cited the Torah as proof of His falsity, after the Torah had testified of Him and what was revealed in the scrolls of the Messengers. Had they understood the Books and what God intended therein, they would not have been debarred from recognizing that which was their purpose. To this testifieth every fair-minded one possessed of knowledge. When they interpreted what was in the Books according to their desires, they were veiled from the Spirit and committed that which caused the eyes of them that are nigh to shed tears.  BH00817
