Today, if it be said that the whole world is but a single eye, or a single ear, it would be true, for not an atom's weight of deeds remaineth concealed or hidden. Should any movement arise in the East, the people of the West become aware of it.  BH11778

We have much to learn from the East, especially, culture, humanity and spirituality. In its place, we can offer science, technology and industry.   ABU2319


From the beginning of time until the present day, the light of Divine Revelation hath risen in the East and shed its radiance upon the West.  AB11112

I, a Persian, am delighted to meet an eminent Westerner like you in utmost harmony and fellowship. This meeting of ours is an example of the joining of the East and the West.  ABU1617

has made the East and West intimate companions and has established such a connection between Iran and America that Iranian and American have become as one soul   AB03317

This interaction and cooperation between the East and the West is a sufficient and irrefutable proof of attaining unto this blessed goal.  AB11827

In this gathering are assembled people from East and West. All are as one kind - there is no difference in their thoughts.  ABU2710

the hearts may affiliate with each other, the souls be attracted, and the East and West may embrace each other  AB11086

Baha'o'llah brings East and West together. Go back, search history, you will not find a precedent for this.  ABU1590

Regarding what thou wrote about correspondence between East and West - this is very beneficial and causes enthusiasm and joy on both sides   AB02366

Physical power when it touches a thing will have effect upon it, but the spiritual power in order to have effect does not require direct contact. For instance, while this spiritual power is in the East, its effect is felt in the West. For instance, Christ appeared in the East, but the effect of the Holy Spirit manifested in the West.  ABU0602

The question of correspondence with other assemblies, both native and foreign is of the utmost importance - thus they may learn of each other methods and ways.  ABU1224

Therefore, a divine universal good cause cannot be confined to either East or West, for the Sun of Reality sheds its rays upon both East and West and its heat penetrates both South and North. It is not specific to one region rather than another.   AB00430

that blessed Tree that belongeth neither to the East nor to the West.  BH00005

The effulgence of the Sun of Truth, the Daystar of the heaven of mercy, illumineth the world and His benevolence hath encompassed both the East and West. The clouds of His bounty overshadow all and the showers of His mercy shed their floods of rain upon all.   AB01492

Correspondence between the believers of the Orient and the Occident, as well as between the different states of America, is of the utmost importance and is conducive to the enkindlement and attraction of the hearts.   AB00820

The question of East-West relations has assumed importance. Some souls are exerting their utmost efforts in this regard, and an executive committee for East-West relations should be elected so they may engage in this work.  AB08550

Communication of the beloved of God from all parts of the world with America, and the correspondence of America with all parts is most agreeable and the cause of attracting the hearts. Endeavor greatly to accomplish this important matter and write to all parts.  AB07150

It is incumbent upon the assemblies of those regions to be connected one with another and to correspond with one another, and also to communicate with the assemblies of the east, thus to become agencies for union throughout the world.  AB00774

The correspondence of the believers of God with all parts of America and from America to all directions is very acceptable and seasonable. It will be the means of drawing the hearts together. Unquestionably show ye the utmost of effort in this matter and correspond with every part.  AB08449

Now if the believers were to travel and give glad tidings to the friends and stay a night or two in each place and share the news of the Holy Land and other parts of the East and West with the people of that place and associate with them with the utmost happiness, joy and love, the result will be enkindlement and attraction. Souls will be trained and become stirred and enraptured and all this will encourage the diffusion of spiritual fragrances and raise of the Word of God in every land.  AB01081

Though the distance is great and the boundless ocean lies between us, you are companions and confidants, friends and intimates. For the power of the Word of God has brought the far near and made distant spaces close. East and West have become as one gathering, as one feast adorned.  AB04495

In reality, there is no East and West - all points on the earth have the same status, and each point is west in relation to one point and east in relation to another point. Therefore these are relative and conventional matters. All points are one sphere and one homeland, and humanity is one race and one family. Therefore I am very pleased to observe this assembly that is the cause of progress for Easterners and their fellowship and harmony with Westerners. ABU2469

Trees, stones and clay were moved to joy and ecstasy. Land and sea became adorned and delightful. The seas became the manifestation of mighty signs. The air became the place of ascent and flight of weighty bodies. Great mountains began running across plains, hills and deserts. East and West began to hear each other's secrets.  AB04697

I proclaimed that the foundation of divine religions is one and these differences are from traditions - if the people of religions abandon traditions, all will unite. In brief, I invited all to love and unity and guided them toward the promotion of universal peace so that struggle and conflict may not remain between human beings, all may become one family, and associate and behave with one another in utmost love and harmony, and East and West may embrace.  ABU1848

Shed splendours on the Orient, And perfumes scatter in the West, Carry light unto the Slav, And the Turk with life invest  AB06477

the diffusion of Brotherhood between the East and the West  ABU3443

"The East must assist the West and the West must assist the East."  AB04820

its fundamental object the ultimate union of the East and the West.   ABU1165

"We see an Eastern guest received with love and courtesy in the West."  ABU1638

so that all people of the East and West may become brothers and sisters  AB12230

Otherwise how would Westerners show such consideration to us Easterners?  ABU2751

East and West will embrace, North and South will become beloved and lover   AB02094

When He promulgated this principle in the Orient, the people were astonished.  ABU3456

Consider thou how the power of the Word of God has united the East and the West  AB05981

Soon this will cause a great connection to be established between East and West.  AB04421

the East would illuminate the West and the West would transmit lights to the East  AB05886

The East and the West should unite to give to each other what is lacking in each.   ABU3405

unity of the East and West... Lord Curzon's talks regarding the unity of East and West  AB01509

the receptivity of the West increaseth day by day and the lights must shine from the East   AB05452

This is through the power of the Kingdom which has made the East and West embrace each other.  AB10277

what have we Persians in common with the Americans on top of this mountain and valley in Dublin?  ABU3114

For the East is the dawning-place of the Sun of Truth and the growing place of the Blessed Tree.   AB01231

It shall become the tree of the unity of the human world and cast its shadow over both East and West.  AB10593

During this period, although I was in the West, my face was always turned towards the friends in the East  ABU2736

I am an Eastener and you are from the West. It is the power of the Spirit that has gathered us together.   ABU1476

See! the Americans and the Germans have been hostile and yet how the Germans, are receiving the Americans!  ABU3670

Baha'o'llah established Christ in the East...Throughout the Orient Bahais have illumined the lamp of Christ  ABU3240

Praise be to God that through the bounty of the Ancient Beauty, East and West are in connection and are quickened.  AB10014

How it has changed the Occidentals into Orientals, and illumined the Western Horizon with the Luminary of the East!   AB03648

Thus, hope lies in the lights of the dawn of guidance which will again rise from the East and spread across the horizons.  AB05931

In this gathering are assembled people from East and West. All are as one kind - there is no difference in their thoughts.  ABU2710

One of my greatest hopes is the connection between East and West, for this is the greatest service to the world of humanity.  ABU2469

Thy letter was received, and the copy of the message from the friends in the West to the loved ones in the East was perused.  AB11161

The East and the West have embraced, distant lands have drawn near, and all on earth have become even as a single assemblage.  AB01510

I want the misunderstanding between Eastern and Western peoples to be removed so we may all find complete love for each other   ABU1246

Since the people of the East have not treated the attendants of this ship well, they now look upon those people with contempt.  ABU3733

We are striving for the East and West to attain complete bonds, and this coming of mine to these places is an introduction to that.   ABU2336

become the tree of the oneness of the realm of humanity and cast its all-encircling shade over the people of the East and the West.   AB01883

The day will soon come when the light of Divine unity will have so permeated the East and the West that no man dare any longer ignore it  AB11414

This is indeed a blessed meeting, for the East and the West are joined here in love and harmony. This was the Will of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU1520

Erelong shalt thou witness East and West embracing each other as two lovers, and Eastern and Western nations being intoxicated with the same cup.  AB02626

The East hath verily been illumined with the light of the Kingdom. Ere long will this same light shed a still greater illumination upon the West.  AB11311

Always from the beginning until now it has been thus that the divine light has shone from East to West, but in the West its rays have been greater.  ABU0309

Thus, thou dost behold the East and the West in close embrace, and dost witness how the Occident and the Orient are attracted like unto two lovers.  AB09925

Regarding travel to Iran, if possible beneficial results will be achieved and it will be a cause of connection and commingling between East and West.  AB11338

if this Cause had appeared among any of the nations and kingdoms of the West, that nation would have boasted of it before all the peoples of the world   ABU2973

if the Americans themselves undertake to make contributions with the utmost gratitude, for the sake of connecting East and West there is no harm in this  AB12522

equipped and empowered to accomplish that which will adorn the pages of history, to become the envy of the world, and be blest in both the East and the West  AB11528

I hope that the Western people will now receive this New Light and become illuminated by it, and that the East may have improved civilization from the West.   ABU1600

Consider the Power of the Covenant! Where is Acca and where is Los Angeles? Yet the Power of the Covenant of Baha'u'llah has united these two distant points!   ABU2088

I hope that thou wilt correspond and communicate with them so that a divine connection and heavenly relationship may be established between the East and the West.   AB02818

He hath joined East and West in close embrace, and brought all horizons beneath the canopy of concord. This is through the bounty and bestowal of the Sun of Truth.  AB09834

He has made strangers into friends and brought the distant near, bestowing through spiritual power such connection that East and West are contained in one gathering.  AB02258

He has come from the East and all spiritual souls of the West pray that He may promote spiritual teachings...only this spiritual power of love can unite East and West  ABU1127

Since we discerned no fruit from the counsel we gave our countrymen, nor could we find a hearing ear among them, we felt it necessary to turn our attention to the West.  ABU3737

praise be unto Thee for having bound the East to the West, as they cleave to each other with all love, ardor, attraction and joy, cooperating and supporting one another  AB12558

Soon thou shalt see that the East hath embraced the West and that the Occident and Orient are attracted to each other. They will become as one soul, one heart and one body.  AB11432

These foolish people wish, in their depraved state, to oppose a Cause that has stirred both East and West and directed the attention of humanity to the kingdom of sanctity.  ABU3736

May the East embrace the West, may Europe hasten without delay along the path of love, may the Turk consider the Tajik an intimate companion and count him as dear and kind.  AB05355

"Persia was the center of one of the oldest civilization and religion in the East." "Yes." Our Beloved concludes "The lights of the Sun have ever shone forth from the East."  ABU0940

The East has been the Founder of Divine Civilization but the West the spreader of material civilization. The East has been the scatterer of the seeds, the West the irrigator.  ABU3049

The East and the West will then have a feast, and in one direction the song of the nightingale will be heard, and in the other direction you will hear the songs of other birds.  ABU2090

The day is approaching, when ye shall witness how, through the splendor of the Faith of Baha'u'llah, the West will have replaced the East, radiating the light of Divine Guidance.  AB11552

Consider what a difference exists between his country and thine and what a great effect this Bahai spirit hath manifested that an Oriental sacrificeth his life for an Occidental!  AB01567

Thou must thank God that, although I am a Person from the East and you are a revered lady from the West, yet we are gathered in this place with the utmost of spiritual affection.   ABU1934

Here we are from the East and you are from the West. This very fellowship and assembly is proof that harmony between East and West is possible, for it is the first radiance of love.  ABU0056

"Consider and thank God that the Power of Baha'u'llah has so united and bound the East and the West together that the Persian poetess translated the poem of the American composer."   AB04788

I hope that through divine power, heavenly bounties, and merciful inspirations these two seas of East and West may become one, and these two branches may be grafted to become a single branch  AB09660

Now we have a glorious purpose before us and a mighty goal in our hearts, which is that the horizons be illumined with the light of harmony, and that East and West embrace like two beloved ones.  AB01606

By its power and strength it hath conquered the East and the West. The East proclaimeth: 'Sanctified be Our Lord the Most Exalted One!' The West declareth: 'Sanctified be Our Lord the All-Glorious!'  AB05413

It is through the grace of the Divine Unity that the friends of the East are occupied with thoughts of the friends of the West, and the beloved ones of the South are intimate with the faithful ones of the North.  AB04293

The hope is that they will take the lead in virtues and attainments, in closeness to the Court of Almighty God, in faith and certitude--and that the women of the East will become the envy of the women of the West.  AB04966

Holy and sanctified is the Most Great Name that, through one divine subtlety and merciful breeze, has joined East and West hand in hand and made them intoxicated and bewildered with the wine of fellowship and love  AB11637

In the Orient scatter perfumes, And shed splendors on the West. Carry light unto the Bulgar, And the Slav with life invest. In a letter I wrote, "Soon will the East and the West embrace each other like two lovers."   ABU1748

Unquestionably, this publication shall serve the world of humanity. If it is continued, its arena shall become broadened and it shall attain to such a station as to bring about the unity of the East and of the West.  AB06541

Now, praised be God, the light of love hath spread in both East and West, and the tabernacle of fellowship amongst hearts and souls is raised in the midmost heart of the world. The teachings of Baha'u'llah have been spread in the East and the West, the fame of the Kingdom hath encompassed the earth, and the tidings of the world’s Great Peace have created tumult in the realm of the hearts.... It is because the East and the West are illumined by the one sun, all races, nations and creeds are the servants of the one God. The whole earth is one home, and all the people are bathed in the ocean of God's mercy.  AB00242

If it remains firm and steadfast, in the future it will become an association for the unity of the human world and will give perfect connection and harmony between East and West, rendering a great service to the human world.   AB00968

The world-illuminating Sun is turning toward the West, while this servant gazes toward the East...Though we are people of the West, yet in intelligence, knowledge, freedom and wisdom we are leaders over the people of the East.  AB06107

An especial meeting was held in Mrs Whyte's house for the Oriental students. They were from China, Japan, Persia, India Turkey, Syria, Arabia, Turkey, etc. It was a wonderful demonstration of the union of the East and of the West.   ABU0737

The Sun of Truth dawned in the East, thousands of devoted ones in the Orient hastened to the field of sacrifice, and now from the invisible horizon of the Most Glorious Kingdom, an intense ray has been cast upon the regions of the West.   AB05104

We must strive until East and West find harmony with each other, the darkness of prejudices is completely eliminated, and the unity of the human world becomes apparent. East and West will embrace like two lovers and engage in the utmost love  AB03417

Europe is submerged in the ocean of materialism; its inhabitants are even as cows that have busied themselves with grazing in the pasture. They can see nothing at all, for their gaze is ever cast down. America, at least, fares better than they.  ABU3706

The holding of meetings at which people from the East come to the far West and sit together with you with such love and affection was impossible but through His penetrative power Baha'u'llah has made this easy and has joined the East and the West.  ABU2735

The East and the West are becoming one and showing the signs of Unity and Love. The hopes of Baha'o'llah are that there be no more separation or discord, for ye are all the waves of one sea, the birds in one heaven and mirrors of the same Bounty.   ABU1600

Christ says that when the Promised One appears from the East, His signs will be manifest in the West. Now give thanks to God that when the Most Great Light rose from the East, its radiant lights shone upon the West, illuminating the western world.   AB01608

Praise be to God, the eastern horizon is illumined and the nostrils of the people of the West are perfumed. The Sun of the East has cast such rays upon the West that it has illumined it. The divine call has been raised in that land and the divine religion has been spread.  AB03822

"Today the most important affair in the world is co-operation between the East and the West. Is it possible that I may be against such a great principle? The Orient Occident Unity has undertaken to carry out this wonderful idea and it needs the assistance of all the friends."  ABU2057

He has assisted all with heavenly confirmation and has pitched such a tent under which all nations and people will gather. He commands us to unfurl the banner of the oneness of the World of Humanity and become the means of the closer relationship between the East and the West   ABU0631

We have come from the distant Orient to create the bond of amity between the East and the West, hoping that by this means humanity at large may advance to an extraordinary degree, for if the Orient and the Occident would unite to hold aloft the banner of international peace...  ABU0219

Now praise be to God that His Principles have illumined the East, the souls and the intellects are delivered from morbid dogmas, the Flags of Guidance are unfurled and the people of the Orient and the Occident are increasingly united through the bond of spiritual brotherhood.   ABU2338

The illumination thus shed hath, however, acquired in the West an extraordinary brilliancy. Consider the Faith proclaimed by Jesus. Though it first appeared in the East, yet not until its light had been shed upon the West did the full measure of its potentialities become manifest.  AB11112

My chief aim is remove the present misunderstanding between the nations of the East and West, so that we may express cordial love toward each other and promote the essentials of the heavenly civilization. I hope that such a confirmation may be vouchsafed us, so that we may become united.  ABU1353

Let this be cause for thanksgiving to the Divine Unity that praise be to God, such confirmation has been granted that East has embraced West. Know the value of this great bounty, that such an impossible matter has become easy and simple through the assistance and favor of the Blessed Beauty.  AB02051

The wisdom of my sojourn here in Paris, as well as the results it will yield, consist in the admonitions I have imparted to the people of the East, and the awareness I have instilled in the Persians -- and this to a degree greater than has been achieved with the inhabitants of Paris themselves!  ABU3752

"How can the East and the West be illumined with the light of the Cause and the whole world be perfumed by the sweet fragrance of the Word of God?' Now behold how this great union has come about and how the hearts of the people of the East and the West have been enlightened with this manifest light."  ABU2133

Particularly in the matter of the Tarbiyat School, the friends of the East assisted the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of America despite being in utmost straitened circumstances and internal upheaval. If the friends of the West likewise render assistance to the Tarbiyat School in Tehran, this will surely bring joy.  AB10173

through these means the spirit of unity has been breathed and signs of connection between Eastern and Western nations have somewhat appeared. What service is greater than this - that Western nations used to consider Easterners savage, but now they praise them and count them as founders of human virtues?   AB12113

"The Cause of God has always appeared from the East but it has been more effective in the West. Once Badri Pasha said in an address, 'Gentlemen, Westerners have taken everything from us: the sciences, the arts and the laws they took from the East. Now we fear that they may wrest from us the Cause of Baha'u'llah, as well.'"  ABU2711

I fervently hope that the same self-sacrifice, spiritual attraction, and the flame enkindled in the heart and soul will be manifested in the regions of the occident, so that the East and the West may embrace each other, may be filled with blissful rapture, and that divine light may illuminate and enlighten the whole world.  AB01854

This is a very joyous evening, an evidence in itself of the possibility of uniting the East and the West -- an eastern man appearing before an assemblage of reverent western people. The East and West, the Orient and Occident, shall be united. The Orient and Occident will be conjoined, and the banner of international peace will be unfurled.  ABU0192

"The Blessed Beauty has gathered the East and West together. For this reason we are very happy. It is not in fun, but is a serious matter. It is beyond comprehension. From the beginning of time to the present day such an event has never happened, that the hearts of the East and West should be united. There should be no differences between them."   ABU0071

In the future the East and the West shall become one. They shall be united. I have said in My letters that the East and the West will become as two lovers. That each is beloved of the other. That the East and the West will take one another in their arms will give one another their hands, each as the beloved of the other, each embracing the other.   ABU0713

The East and the West must unite to give to each other what is lacking. This union will bring about a true civilization, where the spiritual is expressed and carried out in the material. We must pray that by the Bounty of God, Persia will be enabled to receive the material and mental civilization of the West, and by Divine Grace to give in return her spiritual light.  ABU0937

This meeting provides a tangible demonstration of the love and unity that is possible between the East and the West. His Excellency the Ambassador is from the East, while his wife is an American. Similarly, His Excellency the Ambassador of Persia is from the nobility of the Orient, while his wife is also an American. This is a proof that the Orient and Occident can meet, love and unite.  ABU0110

It is for this reason that I have accepted this long journey and come here, that East and West may find complete harmony, achieve the utmost connection, assist one another, and become the cause of each other's comfort. If East and West become united, the banner of universal peace will wave and the oneness of humankind will be manifested, and comfort and tranquility will be achieved for all.  ABU0082

Therefore, you must become the manifestations of these lights, become bright lamps, shine forth like brilliant stars, and be the cause of love amongst all nations, so that the world may testify that the East has always been the source of illumination and the cause of fellowship among humanity. Be at peace with all the peoples of the world, love all, serve all, for all are the servants of God.  ABU0039

The Occident on the contrary is the place of expansion. The West applies and solidifies that which the East suggests. It gives physical form and shape to the ideals of the East. Yet the Word of Christ has been developed in the West. It was the Occident which unfolded the teaching of Christ into a great civilization, which shows how wonderful was the Word of Christ, and how wonderful is the West.  ABU1239

The feeling that existed between the East and the West is changing in the Light of Baha'o'llah's teaching. It used to be that if a Westerner drank from the cup of an Easterner the cup would be thought polluted, and the Easterner would break it. Now it is, with believers, that when a Westerner dines with an Easterner, the vessels and the plates that he has used are kept apart and reverenced in his memory.  ABU2060

The East has ever been the dawning point of the Sun of Reality. All the Prophets of God have appeared there. The religions of God have been promulgated, the teachings of God have been spread and the law of God founded in the East. The Orient has always been the center of lights. The West has acquired illumination from the East, but in some respects the reflection of the light has been greater in the Occident.  ABU0019

In the past, as in the present, the Spiritual Sun of Truth has always shone from the horizon of the East. Abraham appeared in the East. In the East Moses arose to lead and teach the people. On the Eastern horizon arose the Lord Christ. Muhammad was sent to an Eastern nation. The Bab arose in the Eastern land of Persia. Baha'u'llah lived and taught in the East. All the great Spiritual Teachers arose in the Eastern world.  ABU0937

All speak in praise of the East, its illumination, its nations, its parties, its kings and its ministers. They look upon them with admiration and show them true respect, after having previously ridiculed them and looked upon them with contempt, believing the nations of the East to be the barbarians of the earth, devoid of intelligence - mere rabble without opinion, reason, determination or understanding. Now the situation has reversed.  AB00191

The Orient is the germinating place for the soul. It is here that the Breeze of God is felt. Here Moses' Law was given, here Christ's Word was spoken, here Mohammed's banner was flung to the air. The Breeze of God is no longer felt in the West. Its power is stilled, while in the East it is again forceful, fragrant, alive. Once more the West must receive the Breeze of God from the East. It cannot be stayed or hindered, it will blow from the East to the West.  ABU1239

This is the dawn of the light of unity between the Eastern and Western people. In Persia the English language is being studied widely and in America the Persian tongue is beloved by some dear souls. In both countries the respective languages are being studied. This is in itself a proof that the East and West (literally, place of sunrise and sunset) shall clasp hands as two families. The standard of unity shall be raised, and the means of love and friendship will be accomplished.   AB06344

In reality this trip will become the cause of joy to all the Friends, will be the evidence to the unity between the East and the West, the fire of the Love of God will become more brilliant and the souls will become more attracted. It is my hope that the Orient and the Occident may embrace each other like unto two beloved, be mixed with each other like unto honey and sugar, and be mingled like water and wine so that the unity of the human race may illumine all the regions like unto the rays of the sun.  AB06144

At present, the East is captive to the West, and Europe and Asia are in constant warfare. The mighty army of European commerce continually invades Asia. The forces of European industry break Asia's back. The host of European knowledge causes dominion over Asia. The political army of Europe destroys Asia's national foundations. The assault of these armies is continuous, the conquest of these forces successive, and the waves of these consecutive armies attack like successive breakers, while Asia has no power to resist any of these forces.  AB11806

The Cause of God has always dawned from the East, but its spread has been greater in the West, like the Cause of Christ whose influence was more intense in the West. The Eastern Christians say that Christ's Cause was from the East but the Westerners took it from us. Even Badri Pasha, one of the Ottoman ministers, said in a gathering, Do you know what I fear? The Westerners have taken everything we had - they took our sciences, our industries, our laws, they took everything from us. I fear they will take this Cause of Baha'u'llah from us too.  ABU0245

An Oriental personage, having come from the most remote part of the Orient, were he to inhale the fragrances which are wafting from the distant parts of the West, he would say: "How fragrant are they! Evidently the rose garden of the West is most beautiful...Most magnificent flowers have become apparent therein. Variegated flowers can be seen there. White flowers have grown in it; colored flowers have grown in it; red flowers can be seen in it; and yellow flowers can be seen in it, and all of these together are in the utmost of freshness and verdure, and each lends a charm and harmony to the others."   ABU1008

And perchance these scientific and technological systems may be established in the countries of the East, and the promotion of science may occur in the East. When I return to the East, I shall encourage and urge all to acquire sciences and arts. My hope is that you too will strive and establish important schools in the Eastern lands. Likewise, the children of the East who are here from India, China, Japan, Arabia, and Armenia are acquiring sciences and arts. When they return to their homelands, they will promote sciences, crafts and innovations so that the countries of the East may also become like the countries of the West.  ABU0121

The European and the American very often do not understand the oriental concepts in matters of the law. The basic difference between western and eastern legal concepts lies in the different relationship of the Occidental and the Oriental to one God and Creator. To the Occidental his God is - if he even acknowledges a God above him - a metaphysical Being in a remote, strange and nebulous beyond, to Whom one pays homage on Feasts and Holy Days, and Who does not count in every-day life, in commerce and politics, in general behaviour. But to the Oriental the Godhead is a real personality, present in everything and everywhere. Every-day life, the orders of nature, in brief the whole of human and animal life are the work of God, are subject to the Laws of God.  ABU0429

When a man has found joy in one place he returns to that same place to find his joy again. When a man has found gold in a mine he will return again to that mine to find more gold; this is a natural law and shows forth the vital and spiritual powers which God has bestowed upon man, and the natural instinct which is born in him. The Great Light of the Spirit has ever arisen in the East, but it has shed forth its radiance into the West. And in the West has it found its greatest force of expansion. The Christ rose like a star in the horizon of the East, but the Light of His influence has taken root more firmly in the West. This shows us how that the people of the West are very faithful in their hearts and they do not easily forget. The West is like a good plant. When the rain falls gently upon it to give it nourishment and the sun shines upon it to give it warmth, then does it blossom forth and bear good fruit.   ABU0845

Although that brilliant ray brightened the eyes of some of the people of that region, the results have not yet been achieved as they ought to be. Glory be to God! The West became the envy of heaven through the radiance of that Joy, while the East has not yet been illumined by this Most Great Bounty as it deserves to be.   AB05811

This book [Some Answered Questions] hath been written for the people of the West, not for the divines. For the divines, the Fara'id is most suitable. This book hath been penned for the Europeans, and the discourse therein hath been fashioned according to their disposition, as though spoken at their table. The divines have their own disposition, the mystics have theirs, and likewise the Christians, Zoroastrians and Jews have theirs. This Cause embraceth the aspirations of all souls. It is for the spiritualists, the theosophists and all the peoples of the world, that they might have no argument before God. The Cause must needs be all-embracing, that every afflicted one may find therein his remedy - a divine elixir. The metaphysical concepts of Mulla Sadra and Muhyi'd-Din are largely fanciful. For instance, the concept of the Universal Spirit is but fancy and imagination, not reality. For example, Mulla Sadra's ten intellects were derived from the idol-worshipping Greek philosophers. When Aristotle would go forth with Alexander, they would carry nine idols before him. These ten intellects are Aristotle's concept. For example, [he says] motion is of two kinds: forced motion and circular motion. Circular motion is evidence of will. Since we observe circular motion in these spheres, they possess will, and therefore in these spheres there exists an intellectual force which is the governing force of that sphere. In each of the spheres there is an intellectual force which is the source and governor of that sphere. There are eight spheres, each containing one intellect, comprising the eight intellects, and in the ninth sphere there is an intellect under whose shadow all others exist. There is one Supreme Intellect governing all in the tenth sphere. This is but imagination. Now it is known that all motion is forced motion. This sun is compelled to move, even these other spheres are compelled to move. All motion is forced, not volitional. Man is distinguished from all created things; nature - all things are its captive. The sun, for all its greatness, is its captive. But man, whose body is so small, God hath created within him a sacred power that can break the laws of nature. Speaking of the philosophers, they said: What hath illuminative philosophy accomplished in all this time? It could not produce even a match or a needle. It is all talk. But observe how natural philosophy hath yielded the telegraph, the steam engine, electricity and so forth. For instance, had Murtada applied in mathematics the same careful study he devoted to jurisprudence, what discoveries he would have made! The first intellect influenced the second - the fish rotteth from the head, not the tail. There is no circular motion; that connecting force that exists between all created things is one single motion. From the first day of Mulla Sadra until this day, what result hath been achieved? Man must strive in matters that give him life. What [use] are matters that cause lethargy and lifelessness? ABU0675

The two words, East and West, are imaginary words; there is no East and there is no West.  ABU0476

One of the organizers of the Races Congress present spoke of the Western ideals of Baha'u'llah as differing from those of former prophets which were tinged with the ideas and civilization of the East. He then asked whether Baha'u'llah had made a special study of Western writings, and founded his teachings in accordance with them.  	Abdu'l-Baha laughed heartily, and said that the books of Baha'u'llah, written and printed sixty years ago, contained the ideals now so familiar to the West, but, at that time, they had not been printed or thought of in the West. Besides, he continued, supposing that a very advanced thinker from the West had gone to visit Baha'u'llah and to teach Him, would the name of such a great man and the fact of his visit have been unknown and unrecorded? No! In former days, in the time of the Buddha and Zoroaster, civilization in Asia and in the East was very much higher than in the West and ideas and thoughts of the Eastern peoples were much in advance of, and nearer to the thoughts of God than those of the West. But since that time superstitions had crept into the religion and ideals of the East, and from many differing causes the ideals and characters of the Eastern peoples had gone down and down, lower and lower, while the Western peoples had been constantly advancing and struggling towards the Light. Consequently, in these days, the civilization of the West was much higher than that of the East, and the ideas and thoughts of the people of the West were much nearer to the thought of God than those of the East. Therefore, the ideals of Baha'u'llah had been more quickly realized in the West.  ABU0769
