
In this school all branches of learning must be taught with perfect unity. Divine knowledge, which is recognition of God and teaching of His Cause, must be given the utmost promotion in that school, and likewise other sciences. The teachers of the school must be educators - they must both educate and teach the children. They must teach spiritual qualities and heavenly attributes, so that the children may become like brilliant candles, bestowing the lights of human perfections. The matter of education is most important. This is among the greatest divine foundations. All the Prophets came to educate souls. The crooked branch becomes straight through education. The wild tree becomes fruitful through education. The ignorant child becomes wise through education. The ill-tempered one becomes well-behaved through education. Therefore all the teachers of that school must be souls who are believing, assured, of good character, of good conduct, knowledgeable and educators. Only then will results be obtained from the children's school. Otherwise the result will be defective. ABU0949

If you carry out the plan I outlined for your school, it will afford me great spiritual joy.  AB11039

After this, let the teacher write the letters in combination,and say, "This is such and such a syllable," and let the children copy the syllable, and pronounce it. Let the teacher proceed in this manner until they come to words, to phrases and sentences. With this method, in a very short time the children will learn to read what is written. Once they become skilled readers, let the teacher instruct them in the Persian Tablets, also the "Secret of Divine Civilization", and some of the poetry collections. When they have made some progress, if it be feasible let them be taught basic principles of science, the divine proofs, the knowledge of the oneness of God, algebra, arithmetic, the Arabic language, geography and geometry.  AB02191

Once they have become skilled in these fundamentals, let them go on to learning the elements of the other branches of knowledge, and once they have completed this study, let each one who is able and hath a keen desire for it, enrol in higher institutions of learning and study advanced courses in the sciences and arts. Not all, however, will be able to engage in these advanced studies. Therefore, such children must be sent to industrial schools where they can also acquire technical skills, and once the child becomes proficient in such a skill, then let consideration be given to the child's own preference and inclinations. If a child hath a liking for commerce, then let him choose commerce; if industry, then industry; if for higher education, then the advancement of knowledge; if for some other of the responsibilities of humankind, then that. Let him be placed in the field for which he hath an inclination, a desire, and a talent.   AB00236


"For instance: students should not have more than six hours a day, lessons and preparations included. Otherwise they will not succeed. The brain becomes tired."   ABU0326

whatever matter the divine friends undertake should be carried out with utmost perfection, thoroughness and order. The lessons should be organized, the times fixed, the teachers accomplished, and the students should make every effort, so that the desired results may be achieved from these established schools and day by day the young plants of the divine garden may progress in all branches of knowledge and win the trophy of excellence over all other children. AB01632

Schools and universities should be free from religious and racial prejudices. All schools and colleges should have three foundations: First, they should sincerely train souls, discover nature's mysteries and expand knowledge of art, commerce etc. so ignorance passes away and knowledge shines forth. Second, training in morality is necessary. Third, service to humanity should be obligatory.  ABU0938

Teach lessons in spiritual truths and meanings. Train the children in such wise that each one may become proficient in academic and material sciences and divine meanings  AB09481

From childhood the mothers train the minds of their children with noble ideals and make them look at pictures giving them object lessons;- so that in the long run it becomes a second nature to them.   ABU2358

The news of organizing a special school for the young ones of Mahabbatu'llah has brought joy and delight. We hope, through the hidden favors of the Divine Unity, that the children of God's loved ones will be educated in this school in all aspects. That is to say, they should receive divine education, first in heavenly beliefs, faith and certitude, and in general proofs and conclusive evidences of the truth of God's Cause. This should be taught with utmost facility. For instance, each day the teacher should present one divine topic for the children to discuss among themselves. The children themselves will become extremely enthusiastic, and in a short time even a young child will be able to cite verses and traditions as proof. Secondly, they should be taught manners, character, proper conduct, goodly deeds and actions, reading and writing, algebra, arithmetic, geometry, languages, history, geography, and other beneficial sciences. AB01331

in such schools, since only material subjects and natural philosophy are taught, they do not produce highly accomplished souls. Whenever both divine and natural philosophy are taught, extraordinary souls and great advancements will result.  ABU1166

Rather, the people of Iran themselves should promote education without foreign interference. Similarly, they should promote beneficial knowledge and useful sciences, not letting schools become places for promoting worthless ideas and corrupt teachings.  AB05039

the educator must be a physician--that is, he must teach the children, refine their character, impart knowledge and learning, and nurture them with divine qualities. He must be a physician of character, that he may heal the children of the world from spiritual ills and maladies.  AB01170

"The object of such a Baha'i school will be the cultivation of the spiritual and intellectual instincts in the child by arranging a thorough program for his moral and scientific training. The teachers and professors will be spiritual and their idealism sublime and transcendent. Their sympathetic and artistic natures will be acute and most refined. Aside from the purely technical side of the program, which I do not need to dwell upon it for obvious reasons, there will be prepared a program spiritual in character, consisting of ethics, prayers, supplications and those divine, religiously - undenominational subjects which will tend to uplift the thought of the student toward his Maker and instill in his mind a glowing love for his fellow men. This spiritual program will be graded from the very simple lessons to the more complex subjects. In order to obtain satisfactory results the pupils must be taken in this school from the very beginning. Here the very foundation of their education must be laid on the solid rock of purity, cleanliness, sanitary observances and physical examinations. The teaching-rooms must be large and airy and perfect sympathy and comradeship be established between the teachers and the pupils. Every little child will have a Slate before him on his small desk. The teacher will stand up beside the black board facing the pupils. With chalk he will write the first letter of the Alphabeth 'A'. All the children will follow the motion of his hand and write [on] their slates 'A'. Then he will tell them aloud this 'A' and they should repeat it after him. In this manner they will study the writing and reading of the alphabet at the same time. The next step will be the simple combination of two or three letters until the children are well-grounded in them. Having learned the forms and shapes of the letters the teacher will begin to teach them 'words'. For example he will write on the black board the Word 'God'. Immediately all the pupils should write it on their black boards. Then he [will] ask them one by one to see whether they can pronounce it. If there is any one who does actually pronounce it correctly, he will praise and encourage him with 'Bravo' and 'Well done' etc; if not, he will pronounce it and ask them to do it after him. Then he will ask them what is 'God' in French? If they do not know he will write 'Dieu' on the black board and pronounce it for them. In the same manner he will ask them in one or two more languages. Then he will write for them the Word 'Prophet' and repeat the same questions, then the words, for example, Christ, Come, from, Heaven, forming it afterwards into a sentence and translating the same into French, Persian or Esperanto etc. Books are not necessary at this stage of teaching. Oral instruction is the best. In this manner the child will learn in one year what he would have learned ordinarily in 3 or 4 years. The same program, with necessary modifications to suit the developing brain of the child and the changing environment of the country - can be applied to the teaching of preliminary mathematics, history, Geography, physics etc. What I have said here is only the first incomplete chapter of the educational system in the Baha'i Movement."  ABU0568

I have carried in my memory an educational system but so far there has been no means for its realization. Once that system is beaten into a workable shape in two years the children will study four languages; at the age of ten they have studied science and at the age of twelve they are graduated. I wanted to establish a trial school of 81 pupils (9 x 9) all at the age of 6 years, the children to be brought from Persia and Ashkabad, the teachers to be engaged from America, but a number of unforeseen difficulties prevented me." ABU1452

Most ideas must be taught them through speech, not by book-learning. One child must question the other concerning those things and the other child must give the answer. In this way they will make great progress. For example, mathematical problems must also be taught in the form of questions and answers. One of the children asks a question and the other must give the answer. Later the children will on their own accord speak with each other concerning these same subjects.   ABU2054

children's schools must be perfectly organized, teaching and learning firmly established, and the refinement and improvement of character properly systematized, so that in early childhood divine foundations may be laid in the reality of children and a godly structure raised. Consider this matter of education, refinement, improvement, encouragement and stimulation as most important, for it is the very foundation of divine teaching. God willing, from these divine schools may arise illumined children endowed with the noblest human perfections, who may become the cause of the enlightenment of Iran and indeed the entire world. Education and refinement after maturity becomes extremely difficult. Experience has shown that despite utmost effort to change even one trait in someone's character, it proves impossible. If today they become somewhat aware, after a few days they forget and return to their habitual state and accustomed ways. Therefore, this firm foundation must be laid in childhood, for while the branch is fresh and tender, it can easily be made straight and upright.... The teachings for children's schools are extensive, and there is no time now to elaborate, so a brief outline is provided: First, training in manners and character, refinement of qualities, encouragement to acquire perfections, urging adherence to the religion of God and firmness in God's law, complete obedience and submission to just government, truthfulness and trustworthiness toward the present throne, benevolence toward all humanity, kindness to all peoples, learning beneficial arts and foreign languages, good conduct, persistence in offering prayers for the good of kings and subjects, and avoiding the reading of books of materialistic sects and naturalistic peoples, as well as love stories and romantic compositions. The essence of all lessons is confined to the acquisition of human perfections. These are the teachings and arrangements for schools that are briefly recorded here. AB00251

The goal is to make the child, the human being, into a citizen of the Kingdom of God. A human being with goals beyond the transient will always be a good citizen for the authorities and for his fellow citizens! The ideal man should be at home in two worlds, in the material, earthly home, and in the world of divine thoughts, the eternal goals in the 'Malakut-i-Allah' = in the Kingdom of God.   ABU0376

Examine that method and you will find it matchless. It is my own creation. With a method of that kind, one year's work is equal to five years by other methods. Try it! From the beginning, give the children pencils so that they may write the letters. They will then learn to read at the same time. The way I have pointed out is an exceedingly easy one, and the children will learn their lessons joyously. For example: You write the letter "A" on the blackboard. Then ask the children, "What is this?" If anyone should say "A" you should say, "Bravo, well done." But, if no one answers, you may say again, "This is A." And again, until they understand. And so on until they have learned all the letters. If they know the letters you write, praise them. If they do not know, write them again and again. In one week they will learn them. It should not require more than a week. Next, word formation. Later, composition. For instance, you write the word "heaven." You ask, "What is this?" One pupil may point up to the sky. You say, "Bravo." Then you ask, "What is this in French?" If some one says it, you say, "Bravo." If no one knows the word, you should write it, first in English, then in French, and ask again. If anyone can pronounce it, say "Very good." If not, try again. Follow the same procedure in teaching them the German word for "heaven." Similarly with other words. Every day twenty words. In one month the children will know six hundred words. In three months they will have learned eighteen hundred words; and in four or six months -- at most a year -- they will be able to read, write and speak three languages fluently, for they will have learned English, French and German simultaneously. Likewise with other subjects. Let the lessons be in writing. This is a perfect system. The teaching should be by questions. For example: In geography, you may ask, "How many continents are there in the world?" "What are their names?" "How many continents are therein the Eastern hemisphere?" "How many in the Western hemisphere?" All questions and answers. You will request the children to draw a map of America. They will begin to draw, talking and laughing together, teaching and correcting one another. Then the teacher should draw for them a map which is correct. By means of this method the children will learn easily and will enjoy their lessons. This is a very wonderful system, and the beauty of it is that it will not be laborious for the children, nor fatigue them. The lessons will be so interesting that learning will be like play and the children will be happy all the while.  ABU0517

when the child hath reached the age where he can make distinctions, let him be placed in a Baha'i school, in which at the beginning the Holy Texts are recited and religious concepts are taught.  At this school the child is to study reading and writing as well as some fundamentals of the various branches of knowledge, such as can be learned by children.  At the start the teacher must place a pen in the child's hand, arrange the children in groups, and instruct each group according to its capacity.  When the children have, in a given place, been seated in rows, and each holdeth a pen, and each hath a paper before him, and the teacher hath suspended a blackboard in front of the children, let him write thereon with his chalk and have the children copy what he hath written.  For example, let the teacher write an alif ( a ) and say, "This is an alif."  Let the children then copy it and repeat:  "This is an alif." And so on, till the end of the alphabet.  As soon as they properly recognize the letters, let the teacher make combinations of the letters, while the children follow his lead, writing the combinations on their paper, until, by this method, they come to recognize all the letters, singly and combined in words.  Let the teacher then proceed to writing sentences, while the children copy what he hath written, each on his own sheet of paper.  Let the teacher then explain the meaning of the sentence to the children. And once they have become skilled in the Persian tongue, let the teacher first translate and write out single words and ask the students the meaning of those words.  If a pupil hath grasped a little of this, and hath translated the word, let the teacher praise him; if all the students are unable to accomplish this, let the teacher write the foreign language translation beneath the given word.  For example, let him write sama (heaven) in Arabic, and ask: "How do we say this in Persian?"  If one of the children replieth, "The Persian translation of this word is asiman", let the teacher praise and encourage him.  If they are unable to answer, let the teacher himself give the translation and write it down, and let the children copy it.  Later, let the teacher ask:  "How do they say this in Russian, or French, or Turkish?"  If they know the answer, excellent.  If not, let the teacher say, "In Russian, or French, the translation is thus and so", write the word on the board, and have the children copy it down.  When the children have become skilled in translating single words, let the teacher combine the words into a sentence, write this on the board and ask the children to translate it.  If they are unable, let the teacher himself translate the sentence and write down the translation.  It would of course be preferable for him to make use of several languages.  In this way, over a short period -- that is, three years -- the children will, as a result of writing the words down, become fully proficient in a number of languages, and will be able to translate a passage from one language to another.  Once they have become skilled in these fundamentals, let them go on to learning the elements of the other branches of knowledge, and once they have completed this study, let each one who is able and hath a keen desire for it, enrol in higher institutions of learning and study advanced courses in the sciences and arts.  Not all, however, will be able to engage in these advanced studies.  Therefore, such children must be sent to industrial schools where they can also acquire technical skills, and once the child becomes proficient in such a skill, then let consideration be given to the child's own preference and inclinations.  If a child hath a liking for commerce, then let him choose commerce; if industry, then industry; if for higher education, then the advancement of knowledge; if for some other of the responsibilities of humankind, then that.  Let him be placed in the field for which he hath an inclination, a desire, and a talent. But the indispensable basis of all is that he should develop spiritual characteristics and the praiseworthy virtues of humankind. This is the primary consideration. If a person be unlettered, and yet clothed with divine excellence, and alive in the breaths of the Spirit, that individual will contribute to the welfare of society, and his inability to read and write will do him no harm. And if a person be versed in the arts and every branch of knowledge, and not live a religious life, and not take on the characteristics of God, and not be directed by a pure intent, and be engrossed in the life of the flesh -- then he is harm personified, and nothing will come of all his learning and intellectual accomplishments but scandal and torment. If, however, an individual hath spiritual characteristics, and virtues that shine out, and his purpose in life be spiritual and his inclinations be directed toward God, and he also study other branches of knowledge -- then we have light upon light: his outer being luminous, his private character radiant, his heart sound, his thought elevated, his understanding swift, his rank noble. AB00236

In this age the college which is dominated by a denominational spirit is an anomaly and is engaged in a losing fight. It cannot stand long the victorious forces of liberalism in education. The Universities and colleges of the world must hold fast to three cardinal principles. First; Whole-hearted service to the Cause of education, the unfolding of the mysteries of nature, the extension of the boundaries of Pure Science, the elimination of the causes of ignorance and social evils, the standardization of a universal system of instruction, and the diffusion of the lights of knowledge and reality. Second: Service to the Cause of Morality, raising the moral tone of the students, inspiring them with the sublimest ideals of ethical refinement, teaching them altruism, inculcating in their lives the beauty of Holiness and the excellency of virtue and animating them with the excellences and perfections of the religion of God. Third: Service to the oneness of the world of humanity; so that each student may consciously realize that he is a brother to all mankind, irrespective of religion or race. The thoughts of universal Peace must be instilled in the minds of all the scholars, - in order that they may become the armies of Peace, the real servants of the body politic - the world. God is the Father of all. Mankind are His children. This globe is one home. Nations are the members of one family. The mothers in their homes, the teachers in the schools, the Professors in the colleges, the Presidents in the Universities, must instruct these ideals to the young from the cradle up to the age of manhood.  ABU1650

They must have rules and regulations to prevent the children reading books of romance and exciting stories; even the teachers must not refer to such things in their lectures or class-rooms. When the moral tone of the community is raised to a higher level through this system of ethical education, they will make great advancement in sciences and arts and crown their lives with success and prosperity.   ABU2358


