
The individuality of each created thing is based upon divine wisdom, for in the creation of God there is no defect. However, personality has no element of permanence. It is a slightly changeable quality in man which can be turned in either direction.  ABU0384

One must learn to distinguish black from white, light from darkness; one should listen to the response of the spirit and receive the answer to perplexing problems. You have large capacity and much is expected of you. Responsibility is also increased.  ABU1473

Civilization and education add a new perfection to the perfection of man, and education transforms stone into crystal, brings the light from the oil, changes an ignorant man into a clever one, and places him above the animal.   ABU0272

With Spiritual food the capacity to know increases with the will to serve.   ABU3090

By unceasing effort, striving to do right, and to attain spiritual qualities.   ABU1243

nurturing you with the hand of lordly education until you have become fruitful   AB04634

Question: Is there any predominant quality which man should develop in order to obtain especial excellence or power after death?  Answer:  No, man should develop all his qualities for each quality has its own use and function.  ABU3555

Material civilization prevents humans from causing harm through punishment, while divine civilization educates souls to avoid sins without fear of punishment and consider sin itself their greatest chastisement  AB00754

Beseech God to bestow upon thee capacity and capability, that the lights of the Sun of Truth may shine forth.  AB10126

the rain of mercy from the Most Great Beauty has watered and saturated the lands of capacity with the flood of divine knowledge  AB05835

Today, every essence that becomes more delicate grows more luminous, and every heart that develops greater capacity becomes more radiant in its lights  AB04435

The enjoyment of man comes through the unfoldment of his intellect, intelligence, the virtues of the world of humanity and the divine characteristics.  ABU2552

Through education alone can these gems of spiritual virtues and praiseworthy deeds be brought forth from the mine and appear in the realm of visibility.  BH06970

capacity is necessary, receptivity is essential, and worthiness is required. Ask thou from the Truth for great capacity, that mighty grace may be revealed  AB10826

Capacity attracts. Develop capacity to receive the Word of God. First develop the thirst, the capacity; then you will receive the precious Water of life.   ABU3205

that tender plant in the rose-garden of the love of the All-Glorious is growing and developing and is occupied in acquiring spiritual and physical perfections  AB09424


I hope that through the heat of the Sun of Reality, the dewdrops of the cloud of bounty, and the breeze of the winds of guidance, you may grow and develop in the stream of divine knowledge  AB12368

Capacity in all things attracts divine confirmations. Observe how when the earth develops capacity, the bounty of the spring rain pours forth in torrents, and likewise with all other things.   AB05788

I hope that day by day the friends will increase in capacity and potential, so that through the downpour of the rain of mercy, the seed of divine gifts will flourish in the soil of the heart.   AB11769

Every soul that enters under the shadow of Baha'u'llah, day by day their capacity increases, like a tree that is under the care of a perfect gardener - it will surely grow and develop and achieve perfect cultivation.  ABU2471

The development of innate capacity is completely dependent on education and on man's own exertions. In other words, innate capacity is not realized without education and exertion on the part of man and its perfection demands effort and training.  ABU1691

Consequently we must pray and supplicate that we may gain the capacity to receive, for no one will profit by drinking water unless he is thirsty, and no one will find unless he is seeking. He who has the greatest capacity will receive the greatest bounty.  ABU0694

Look not to thine own capacity and ability; rather, fix thy gaze upon the eternal bounty of the Glorious Lord. Capacity and ability are like unto a drop which hath no capacity indeed, but look thou to the divine favors which are like unto a limitless ocean  AB12435

Divine bounties are of two kinds: One station is that of capacity, wherein each is given his due according to his merit. This comes through effort - the more one prepareth himself, refineth himself, and polisheth the mirror of his being, the more light he will attract. The other station is the special station of the Prophets, wherein God raiseth up an individual to the station of Prophethood without regard to capacity or qualification, as in the case of Moses, Christ, and Muhammad. ABU0830

Confirmations and success arrive from every direction, but capacity and worthiness are necessary, for while spring rain adorns the garden, in salty soil it brings forth nothing but thorns. Thus it became clear and evident that first capacity and then assistance is needed  AB02402

Therefore strive to obtain capacity. The bounties of the kingdom of Abha are successive; the effulgences of the Sun of Reality shine gloriously. But capacity is necessary. The soil of the hearts must be receptive and pure so that it may be benefited by the downpour of rain.  ABU0574

The favors and confirmations of the Blessed Beauty encompass every expanse, and bounties flow successively and continuously from all directions. But capacity and receptivity are the condition for receiving them, and receptivity comes through servitude, service and thralldom   AB11841

Education is a necessity. If a piece of ground be left in its natural and original state, it will either become a thorny waste or be covered by worthless weeds. When cleared and cultivated, this same unproductive field will yield plentiful harvests of food for human sustenance.  ABU0109

This is how innate capacities and divine gifts in the human world become perfected through education - the thorny wilderness of ignorance and cruelty becomes the rose garden of knowledge and purity, and the dark abode of enmity and hatred becomes the temple of love and fidelity.  ABU1208

Good behaviour and high moral character must come first, for unless the character be trained, acquiring knowledge will only prove injurious. Knowledge is praiseworthy when it is coupled with ethical conduct and virtuous character; otherwise it is a deadly poison, a frightful danger.   AB03797


Nevertheless, the friends of God must in all these fields excel others and especially in the acquisition of bounties and perfections. They must endeavour with the utmost of their ability for these sanctified souls are aided before all others, they are confirmed beyond anyone's expectations.  AB02126

The efforts of all the Divine Teachers have been directed to the end of so educating mankind that the souls of men shall attain the capacity to reflect in their essence the rays sent forth from God -that the light of the Sun of Reality should shine in the mirror of the heart, giving forth radiance.  ABU0565

If you educate a savage, he becomes a complete human being; if you cultivate a dunghill, it becomes a rose garden; if you nurture soil, it becomes a flower bed; if you refine a stone, it becomes a brilliant ruby. This is why an educator is necessary - without an educator, man does not become human.  ABU1077

Therefore man needs a teacher by whom his spiritual powers may be developed-that his lamp may be lighted. For this is the coming of the Messengers of God: that man may be educated, that his latent perfections may be brought forth and made manifest, that his spiritual and heavenly estate may be realised.  ABU0927

Consider, then, the effectiveness of education in the human kingdom. It makes the ignorant wise, the tyrant merciful, the blind seeing, the deaf attentive, even the imbecile intelligent. How vast this difference. How wide the chasm which separates the educated man from the man who lacks teaching and training.  ABU0900

But according to the life we have lived here depend the conditions of life on that next plane. What we sow here, that we reap there. Even though on leaving this body we enter upon a life of the sprit, the conditions of the spirit-life must depend upon the degree of development to which the spirit has attained.  ABU2537

Parents must find out as to that calling or profession for the acquisition of which their children show the most aptitude and natural desire - and then they must train them in the same, by engaging their attention in that direction. For a child will sooner or later make manifest his natural abilities and gifts.  ABU2502

Man has the power of knowledge which will exalt him to heaven, and the power of ignorance which will debase him to the lowest condition. The more a person advances in Divine matters, the more he will receive the attributes of light; and the more he retrogrades, the more he will receive the qualities of darkness.   ABU1999

The criterion of human beings is the manifestation of humanity, which is the expression of those spiritual perfections that lie hidden within. Assuredly, neglect not, throughout thy days and nights, the acquisition of spiritual and outward perfections, that the fruits of existence may be made manifest through thee.  BH08732

For instance, this flower cannot by itself reach this perfection and attain this charm, color and loveliness. Thus, there are two great blessings in the world of existence: one is innate capacity which is bestowed by the Creator; and the other, acquired perfections which depend upon training by a teacher and educator.  ABU2331


Hence in thanksgiving for this great bounty, we must manifest great capacity and worth, because if capacity be not proportionate to the bounty the result will be unworthy of the bounty. For example, consider the shining of the sun upon a common stone. Even though the sun should shine upon it for ages the stone would never become a ruby or a diamond, as it lacks that capacity.  ABU0820

we need not only lessons and knowledge, we need, even more, education and character training. We Baha'is say: By nature man is not an unalterable entity with bad or good tendencies or with a more positive or more negative mixture of tendencies. The great Rousseau maintained - despite knowledge of his own self (Les Confessions = his famous description of his life) - that man is by nature an uncorrupted being with good qualities, whose education should consist only of guiding and protecting. Instruction was to fill the mind with knowledge, and the character need only be cared for, to keep all obstacles from it, after which one could be sure of an educated, efficient man full of character. It is equally false when the Christian missionaries place the whole emphasis on original sin, consider man as impure and corrupted from the time in the mother's womb, and when they, as the 'instrument of the Almighty', expect all salvation from their schooling and training of the small sinner. ABU0376

For human reality is the dividing line between light and shadow, the confluence of the two seas, and the ultimate point in the arc of descent. Therefore it hath the capacity for all stations: through education it acquireth virtues, and without education it remaineth in the lowest depths of deficiency. Every child may become either a source of illumination for the world or a cause of darkness throughout the horizons.  AB01170

Among the special favors of the Ancient Beauty in this Most Great Century is that He has adorned the human temple with wondrous capacities and abilities, such that children have attained the station of the mature, and youth have acquired the wisdom, intelligence and knowledge of the elderly. The unlettered one becomes learned in the school of divine knowledge, and the common man becomes aware of the mysteries of reality.   AB02582

Though the plant be weak, yet the power of the sun is intense. Consider this clearly and evidently: the disciples were like other humans, outwardly mere fishermen with absolutely no capacity or capability. But since the outpourings of Christ were like the radiance of the sun, these weak souls surpassed the mighty ones of the world. Thus it became clear that one must not look to capability but must look to divine bounties.   AB02045

On the other hand, the divine reality is unlimited and immeasurable and can never stop or deteriorate, therefore the holy souls who are confirmed with this divine power are likewise endowed with eternal motion. Their progress becomes unlimited. Day unto day their lives are strengthened, the circle of their comprehension becomes wider, the sphere of their intellects becomes more effectual and their capacities are increased.  ABU0989

Clay, however much trained, will not become a brilliant pearl; a black stone will not become a world-illumining gem; and the colocynth and zaqqum trees will not become blessed trees through education and training. That is, education does not transform the human essence, but it has a complete effect and through its penetrating power brings forth whatever perfections and capacities are embedded and inherent in human reality.  AB00142

As regards the personality which is the result of acquired virtues, let us take this mirror as an example: In the beginning it was a piece of black stone; now, through the process of purification, it has become a mirror and has reflecting power and displays its innate perfections so that they are clearly visible to all. The rock was endowed with a distinct individuality which acquired a personality through the process of education.  ABU0384

Education and refinement after maturity becomes extremely difficult. Experience has shown that despite utmost effort to change even one trait in someone's character, it proves impossible. If today they become somewhat aware, after a few days they forget and return to their habitual state and accustomed ways. Therefore, this firm foundation must be laid in childhood, for while the branch is fresh and tender, it can easily be made straight and upright.   AB00251

If she advanceth in this manner, maketh more effort and day by day groweth in spirituality, sincerity, devotion and severance, in a short time she will become purely merciful and will spiritualize others; she will progress in the stations of sanctity and purity; she will become the possessor of a fluent speech and will find her heart brilliant and full of serenity and faith to such an extent that her pure breath will so take effect even in stone, tree and clay (i.e., in all people), that she, herself, will be astonished.  AB06079

