All mankind should partake of both knowledge and education, and this partaking of knowledge and of education is one of the necessities of religion. The education of each child is obligatory. If there are no parents, the community must look after the child.   ABU0225

In truth, the magnet which attracts these bounties is the education of children. If mothers, as they ought and must, rear their children from infancy with spiritual training, divine organization, and physical discipline, this vigilance is service at the Threshold of Oneness, nay rather, worship at the Threshold of the All-Merciful.  AB05045

Children must be provided with all means of health from the moment of birth... When the child begins to show some sensitivity and understanding, the mother should establish proper conduct and education, and speak of all manner of things, so that in childhood he may learn proper behavior and training, acquire spiritual sensibilities, gain understanding of religious mysteries to the extent possible, and obtain a general knowledge of all physical matters. When the time comes for a teacher, then education regarding knowledge and learning belongs to the teacher at school, and to the father and mother at home.  AB05045


Likewise, they consider education and training to have a mighty and established influence. For example, if a child is deprived of schooling, he will certainly remain ignorant and unlearned, his knowledge limited to his own discoveries. But when he studies sciences and knowledge with a learned teacher, he becomes informed of the discoveries of thousands of souls. Thus education becomes the cause of guidance for the misguided and sight for the blind; it makes the ignorant wise and the worthless noble; it makes the mute speak and the false dawn become the true dawn; it makes a tiny seed become a lofty palm tree and a runaway slave become a triumphant king.  AB00060

They have established schools that are considered gardens of delight for children, furnished with all manner of toys, or in other words, means for children's joy and exercise, whereby their nerves and muscles are strengthened and active, and they avoid [weakness] and lethargy, keeping their mental faculties alert and vigorous. Under the supervision and training of male and female teachers, hundreds of children like flocks of blessed birds spend their days in utmost simplicity and purity in play and joy - but in reality they are becoming accustomed to physical exercise and [not readable] and learning good social manners and fellowship.  ABU0084

For example, if children remain in the wilderness and receive no education at all, they will certainly remain ignorant, they will certainly remain unaware of the civilized world. No crafts, no commerce, no agriculture - like the peoples of central Africa who are in the utmost savagery. What has distinguished the world of Europe from the world of Africa? Certainly it is education, for the people of Europe are educated while the people of Africa are not educated.  ABU0400


it is incumbent upon the father and mother to train their children both in good conduct and the study of books; study, that is, to the degree required, so that no child, whether girl or boy, will remain illiterate. Should the father fail in his duty he must be compelled to discharge his responsibility, and should he be unable to comply, let the House of Justice take over the education of the children; in no case is a child to be left without an education.  AB03494

The ninth admonition is in regard to education. All the children must be educated so that there will not remain one single individual without an education. In cases of inability on the part of the parents through sickness, death, etc., the state must educate the child. In addition to this widespread education, each child must be taught a profession or trade so that each individual member of the body politic will be enabled to earn his own living and at the same time serve the community.   ABU0083

In this new and wondrous Cause, the advancement of all branches of knowledge is a fixed and vital principle, and the friends, one and all, are obligated to make every effort toward this end, so that the Cause of the Manifest Light may be spread abroad, and that every child, according to his need, will receive his share of the sciences and arts -- until not even a single peasant's child will be found who is completely devoid of schooling.  AB04334

In this wondrous Cycle, the firm foundation is the establishment of education in sciences and knowledge, and by explicit text all children must acquire sciences to the necessary degree. Therefore, schools and educational institutions must be established in every city and village, and all children must strive to acquire learning to the necessary degree in cities and villages.  AB03755

Thus it became clear and evident that minds differ in their innate nature, and education also has a mighty influence and powerful effect. Without an educator, all souls would be like beasts, and without a teacher, all children would be like insects. This is why in the Divine Book in this wondrous age, education and training are obligatory, not optional  AB00142

Education holds an important place in the new order of things. The education of each child is compulsory. If there is not money enough in a family to educate both the girl and the boy the money must be dedicated to the girl's education, for she is the potential mother. If there are no parents the community must educate the child.   ABU0108

Children especially must be trained and taught. If the parent cannot afford to do this owing to lack of means, the body politic must make necessary provision for its accomplishment. Through the broadening spirit of education illiteracy will disappear, and misunderstandings due to ignorance will pass away.  ABU0012

The seventh teaching of Baha'o'llah concerns itself and is in accord with this system of universal education; it is that all the children should study and acquire a profession, that there should not remain a single individual without a profession whereby he can earn his livelihood.   ABU0036


And in this blessed matter there is no exception among the people - the children of friends and strangers, foreigners and acquaintances are equal. That is, the perfect human must engage in educating and teaching all.  AB04286

As to helping one another, this refers to the various pursuits of life, as commerce, trade, professions, etc. In whatsoever of these a believer is in need of help, that help should be rendered. But nobody should ask for this aid; it is the privilege of those of wealth to do this work; but it is optional. One should not ask for aid. It is better to die first in the faith. The beloved of God must be in the utmost state of severance. They must teach the whole world this sense of severance. How shameful it is in the sight of God for a person to impose upon another! Such people must be elevated. The work must attain such a pitch that should a wealthy person offer a gift to a poor man, the poor man should feel himself independent and not accept it. The time must come and the work get so high that every community will have a box for charity which may be full to the brim of gold and yet a poor man will refuse to take any so long as he is able to work for himself. The work must reach such a pitch. Now, in Persia many very poor believers will not accept anything from anyone. They are true believers. They want to serve themselves and to contribute themselves. Poor believers in Persia never ask of the rich; it is not customary. But the rich will do this themselves without being asked. In Esphahan there was a famine and two brothers gave all they had, but no one asked them. But the world will reach a state wherein neither absolute poverty nor great wealth will exist. Giving should be a joy to the giver, however poor he maybe, or however small his gift.

It is better for Bahai children to be educated in Bahai schools.  ABU1047

character training... is more important than instruction, for it is the primary accomplishment of humankind.   AB05542

The environment consists of one's home country (ground, climate, water etc). More important is the family, the professional class, the social conditions, degree of communication, in brief the human environment of the child. What we do know of each child, even of a foundling, is the sex and to some extent its constitution. As the teacher is least of all able to judge the heredity, the hereditary factors, of his pupil and will only be able to understand them in the course of many years, he should set his lessons and particularly his educational ways and means according to the goal of education.   ABU0376

Education holds an important place in the new order of things. The education of each child is compulsory. If there is not money enough in a family to educate both the girl and the boy the money must be dedicated to the girl's education, for she is the potential mother. If there are no parents the community must educate the child.   ABU0108


There can be no improvement unless the girls are brought up in schools and centres of learning, unless they are taught the sciences and other branches of knowledge, and unless they acquire the manifold arts, as necessary, and are divinely trained.  AB01967

Now in this greatest of centuries the bounty of the All-Bountiful hath encompassed the girls as well, and many schools have been founded in Persia for the education of girl children   AB05542

From their childhood the children must be given a Baha'i, spiritual and godlike education. Should they be so instructed they will be protected and guarded from every test.   AB04065

If the human self is left to its natural state, the character of all children will become reprehensible and satanic... This is what nature requires, and all these corruptions come from nature  ABU2246

Now it is thus: people quickly form attachments to the caller of desires. Call children to play and frolic, and they will immediately respond with enthusiasm and joy, considering it blissful pleasure. But direct them to school and lessons and teaching, and they will react with aversion and curse it. Human nature inclines toward the life and freedom of wild beasts, but divine education ultimately prevails. When children reach maturity, they themselves abandon play and become independent of foolishness.  AB03972

In short, the mothers must not think of themselves but of the progress of their children because upon the children of today - whether boys or girls - depend the moulding of the civilization of tomorrow.  ABU0973

Everything praiseworthy spreads rapidly. But the children must first be taught religion so that they may be sincere and trustworthy.  ABU3483

It behoveth thee to nurture them at the breast of the love of God, and urge them onward to the things of the spirit -- that they may turn their faces unto God; that their ways may conform to the rules of good conduct and their character be second to none; that they make their own all the graces and praiseworthy qualities of humankind; that they acquire a sound knowledge of the various branches of learning -- so that from the very beginning of life they may become spiritual beings, dwellers in the Kingdom, enamoured of the sweet breaths of holiness, and may receive an education religious, spiritual, and of the Heavenly Realm.  AB03824

Give lessons in divine love to children who are studying, and teach them heavenly teachings, for children and youth require training in character, morals and proper conduct more than they need learning and knowledge. Therefore, train the children in Baha'i schools in divine characteristics and guide them to purity and holiness, so that each one may develop an angelic nature and be adorned with the attributes and character of a true Baha'i.  AB07846


Among the children many blessed souls will arise, if they be trained according to the Bahai Teaching. If a plant is carefully nurtured by a gardener, it will become good and produce better fruit. Even so in God-like affairs. Verbal questions must be asked and the answers must be given verbally. They must discuses (these affairs) with each other in this manner.   ABU2054

Through training, a crooked branch becomes straight, a wild tree becomes cultivated, a fruitless plant becomes fruitful, an ignorant person becomes wise, a wild bird becomes tame, and fierce beasts become gentle. Training has a profound effect - a tremendous influence.  ABU1031

I supplicate God that thou mayest become a kind parent to orphaned children, quickening them with the fragrances of the Holy Spirit, so that they will attain the age of maturity as true servants of the world of humanity and as bright candles in the assemblage of mankind.  AB08817

Children must be nurtured from infancy at the breast of the love of God and in the embrace of divine knowledge, that they may become illumined, that they may become merciful, that they may acquire knowledge and learning, and that they may attain the character of the angels.  AB01170

Children must be greatly nurtured, protected and educated. This is the true meaning of parental compassion; otherwise they will grow like weeds and become a cursed tree, unable to distinguish between good and evil, or virtues from vices, becoming raised in vanity and detested by the forgiving Lord.  AB02095


The tender plants in the garden of unity who are studying moral education are under the gaze of favor and in the shadow of the grace and bounty of His Holiness the One. 'Abdu'l-Baha, with utmost supplication and entreaty, beseecheth their progress and advancement in the sublime degrees of the human world.  AB11158

The teachers of the school must be educators - they must both educate and teach the children. They must teach spiritual qualities and heavenly attributes, so that the children may become like brilliant candles, bestowing the lights of human perfections.  ABU0949

Aid the children of this glorious age to delve and plunge into the depths of the ocean of beneficial knowledge. Expand their breasts with the light of sciences, brighten their eyes with rays from the sun of arts, perfume their souls with divine knowledge  AB01632

Rear it in the teachings of Baha'o'llah.  ABU2399

O divine teachers! You have arisen to render a service that is truly worthy of praise and commendation, for you are educating and training tender saplings in the Garden of Abha. This service excels all other services and this endeavor deserves a thousand praises and glorifications.  AB04066


Give the child a Baha'i religious education so that he may become illumined, may become divine, and may manifest infinite bounties.  AB10952

I want these children to get Baha'i education so that they may progress in both this world and the Kingdom and prove to be the cause of the happiness of thy heart and soul.  AB10738

That is to say, they should receive divine education, first in heavenly beliefs, faith and certitude, and in general proofs and conclusive evidences of the truth of God's Cause.  AB01331

This matter is of the highest importance, for the children must, from their infancy, be educated according to the rules of God, and their behaviour must be improved and corrected.  AB01097

the education of humans is through heavenly spring rain - if one is deprived of spiritual knowledge and certitude, one is a wild animal, even counted among the earthworms underground  AB01258

teach those divine newcomers heavenly manners, and in the school of unity become a teacher of love, and teach the children of the merciful friends the ways and customs of the love of God   AB06321

Teaching in the school of education is service to the Cause of God...likewise engage in the spiritual education and divine character development of these tender plants of the garden of oneness  AB07325

Man is like steel whose essence is hidden - through mention, utterance, counsel and education its essence becomes manifest and evident, but if left to itself, the rust of lustful desires and passions will destroy it.   BH00228

Hands which have labored in the Cause of education are ever blessed. I am pleased with your hands. I love such hands very much, because they have worked for the children. May thou become a great educator and guide to humanity!   ABU3431

love them and educate them in divine education   AB04083

so that they may safeguard the rights of children  AB09903

I pray to God that you may excel others in service to humanity and become unique in the world in the education and training of students.  AB06774


The education of children is infinitely beloved.   AB01597

It is the duty of all to look after the children.  ABU3422

Children must be taught both learning and a craft.  AB11395

Teach the divine culture to the children of the world  AB02520

Give great importance to the boys' and girls' school   AB00323

strive with pure intention in the education of children  AB07963

attention to the education and nurturing of her children  AB01230

They must educate the children and teach them useful arts  AB00325

do not fall short in knowledge, calligraphy and character.  BH11037

endeavor to educate children according to divine commandments  AB04485

My hope is that she will exert the utmost effort in her studies  AB03501

As far as thou canst give a Bahai education to thy little child.   AB07534

thou thyself art a new flower in the rose-garden of Baha'i education  AB10640

Educate and train thou that dear child with the utmost perseverance.  AB08222

teach your sons the blessing of obedience and the happiness of sacrifice   ABU3539

Let their education be directed in the ways of purity and useful service.   ABU3040

The Supreme Pen counseled all regarding the education of children and youth.  BH07562

Education is the bed-rock of the modern civilization of Europe and America.   ABU2358

assist all who strive and all who exert effort in establishing this great school  AB10254

Today a world-illumining effort is needed so that young children will be educated   AB11925

Give two kisses to Ruhi Effendi on my behalf and tell him to strive in his lessons.  AB10234

Bend your minds and wills to the education of the peoples and kindreds of the earth   BH06328

The school for girls is of the utmost importance. You must certainly strive for this.  AB08660

enable him to teach the youth Thy clear and manifest proof and Thy conclusive arguments   AB03213

Children must be educated and taught, attain joy and delight, and seek progress and success  AB09932


Make them lamps of guidance, stars of the heights, and meteors blazing from the Abha Kingdom  AB01632


The gathering you have established for the education of children is most acceptable and beloved.  AB12499

Praise be to God that with your soul and with your heart you are striving to guide the children.  AB11081

that these children may receive divine education and each one become aware of truths and meanings  AB03100

Praise be to God that you are engaged and successful in educating and teaching children and youth.   AB03635

Those without children should, if possible, make themselves responsible for the education of a child.  ABU3422

The Sunday School is very important...because the children are there taught the Words of Baha'o'llah.  ABU2803

It is especially necessary to educate the children. They are the young tender trees of God's planting.  ABU2282

O thou who hast been nursed at the breast of the Kingdom of God and reared in the bosom of His guidance!  AB09005

You must certainly make a strenuous effort to master this language with utmost eloquence and excellence   AB06270

suffer me to be nurtured with the milk and honey of Thy love and train me under the tree of Thy knowledge  AB10053

Enlighten the minds with the light of knowledge. Illumine their hearts with the rays of useful sciences.   ABU2935

It is my hope that thou wilt become a child of the Kingdom, wilt study arts, sciences and divine knowledge  AB08929

And regarding what you had arranged concerning teachings for children, God willing it will be carried out.  AB08302

In truth, children must be observed and nourished with gentle, suitable sustenance until they attain maturity.  BH02951

And choose one of his children and send them here to be educated in the schools under 'Abdu'l-Baha's supervision.  AB11657

Give thanks to God that thou wert nurtured in the divine shell and, through heavenly education, acquired radiance.  AB09487

The Master provides guidance on children's education: "You must let the children study that which they like best."  ABU2928

Encourage and urge the children to learn crafts, writing and other skills, and strive greatly in their education.   AB00296

As much as you can, train the youth through divine education and quicken them with the breath of the All-Merciful.   AB05852

Strive in their education and do not be hopeless of their progress, for "man receives naught save what he strives for."   AB04429

All people are in need of education. They who are endowed with insight must turn their attention to this momentous matter.   BH02680

likewise engage in the spiritual education and divine character development of these tender plants of the garden of oneness  AB07325


You must certainly exert your utmost effort so that these leaves may acquire the highest proficiency in the English language  AB09440

Therefore is it essential to train the children in early childhood, and this cannot be accomplished in the schools of others.  AB01097

The other kind consists of accidental differences which, due to lack of education, become the source of ignorance and cruelty  ABU2135

I ask God to help thy children to gain knowledge, to attain virtues and morals which are the refinements of the reality of man  AB05205


Among the most important affairs is the education and training of all children, and you must give great attention to this matter  AB02794

Regarding what you wrote about the school, that is, the educational institution for children - this is most acceptable and beloved.  AB05039


We have named the school "The School of the Unity of Mankind" so that all peoples and groups may send their students to that school   AB06638

Day by day may you progress until each one becomes a peerless sapling in the divine garden, full of leaves and blossoms and fruits.   AB05515

Everything praiseworthy spreads rapidly. But the children must first be taught religion so that they may be sincere and trustworthy.  ABU3483

They who possess speech and utterance and who are associated with the Truth must, with perfect wisdom, educate the children of earth   BH06030

Today the education and training of the children of the loved ones of God is among the greatest aims and desires of the chosen ones.   AB04715

Baha'i children must excel other children in the acquisition of sciences and arts, for they are the recipients of the glance of favor.  AB06122

Strive thine utmost to give his child a Baha'i training so that when he attaineth maturity he may be merciful, illumined and heavenly.  AB04032

If a child is left to its own natural proclivities, without education, it will embody all human defects. Education makes of man a man.  ABU1956

Likewise, the news of the establishment of the girls' school and the excellent organization of the boys' school has brought great joy.  AB06680

And now you have undertaken to teach the newcomers to the Abha Paradise. You present proofs and establish clear and brilliant evidence.  AB03196

You must all exert such intense effort and decisive endeavor in your studies that you may distinguish yourselves among all the students.  AB09070

And now there they have begun work on a pilgrim house and school so they can educate the children of the friends with divine education.   AB02742

But the children of men are in need of education and civilization, and they require to be polished, till they become bright and shining.  ABU0257

This is among the decisive obligations and immediate duties of the Law of God in this divine cycle... to establish a school for children   AB06573

The children of the martyrs of Manshad will, God willing, through thy endeavors, make the utmost progress in reading, writing and crafts.  AB08642


God hath prescribed for every father to educate his children, both male and female, in learning and letters, then crafts and professions.   BH11102

The construction of the school building on the Most Great Land, meaning the repair and completion of the existing building, is acceptable.   AB02086

Children should acquire Baha'i education so that they may attain prosperity in both worlds, otherwise they will fall into trouble and pain.  AB10738

Regarding the school that you had arranged with the friends in Alexandretta, this is very acceptable. First, this is necessary and essential.  AB11764

In truth, were humanity to be blessed with the education of the true Educator, most of these visible means would be observed to be fruitless.   BH02144

When the years of your children reach the number of eleven, ye shall teach them this science as a bounty from God, that they may be grateful.   BB00108

the education of the successful rising generation to establish Thy proofs and evidence, and the instruction of youth in the proofs and tidings   AB02635

It is most clear and manifest that national affairs will never revolve around their proper axis until the whole people have received instruction  ABU3525

Therefore upon arrival in Tehran send him to Sadru's-Sudur for lessons in teaching and encourage him to learn French. If he refuses, let me know.  AB11630

educating the children and training them in the training of God, and in early childhood enkindling in their hearts the lights of spiritual morals   AB05987

It is the hope of Abdu'l-Baha that those youthful souls in the schoolroom of the deeper knowledge will be tended by one who traineth them to love.  AB02921


Blessed is that teacher who shall arise to instruct the children, and to guide the people into the pathways of God, the Bestower, the Well-Beloved.  BH10982


"You are all receiving the teachings of God and learning how to act and live and some day you will be great and wise for having learned the truth."  ABU1951

The divine school is established and the Teacher of Love is engaged in lessons and instruction, and you are occupied with teaching God's newcomers   AB12146

It is necessary for children to learn Persian and Arabic and one of the foreign languages - that is, whichever language they or their parents choose.  AB06183

The most important of all matters in question, and that with which it is most specially necessary to deal effectively, is the promotion of education.   ABU3170

I hope that through the favors of the Blessed Beauty, the students of the blessed Tarbiyat School will progress in such a way as to surpass all others.  AB12496

For instance, when a mother learns to teach the Cause of God and explain divine proofs and evidences, she will also educate and teach all her children.  AB07059

Let these saplings which have sprouted by the stream of Thy guidance become fresh and verdant through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy tender mercy  AB07303

that young sapling in the rose garden of the love of the All-Glorious is growing and developing, occupied in acquiring spiritual and physical perfections  AB09424

Verily, thou hast a great reward with God for having raised honored daughters who are for thee a spiritual lineage continuing through ages and centuries.  AB09635

teaching the peerless children of this wondrous age and nurturing the fresh saplings of God's garden with the droplets from the cloud of divine knowledge  AB05776

When the Children of Israel taught both material and religious sciences together in their schools, this resulted in the education of skilled individuals.  ABU3160

"Educate her according to the divine precepts that she may become a true Baha'i, and endeavour with all thy heart that she may be born of the Holy Spirit"  AB06054

I am very glad to be among you, who are blessed in God's name with children. They are the true signs of his spiritual love. The most divine gifts of God.   ABU3040

As for bedtime, mothers should recite the verses of the Blessed Beauty so that from childhood these children may be educated with the verses of guidance.   AB04387

Teach your children that which hath been sent down from God, that they may recite it in most melodious tones. Thus hath it been ordained in a mighty Book.   BH05246

Since thy dear child is taking his examinations, my fervent wish at the divine Threshold is that, by the grace and favour of God, he may meet with success   AB12015

The class of the Junior Bahais at Glendale is important and his honour Mr. Beckett is a revered teacher to the children, deserving the favor of the Kingdom.   AB01963

Immature souls must at all times be nurtured with the hands of mercy and kindness until they reach maturity and become aware of what benefits and harms them.   BH02839

Devote ye particular attention to the school for girls, for the greatness of this wondrous Age will be manifested as a result of progress in the world of women.   AB02250

since he is occupied with watching over and protecting children who have drunk from the breast of the love of God, his service and his wife's trouble are accepted  AB02322

"from their early childhood, eagerly wish to acquire Baha'i education that they may, from the period of their childhood, engage in service to the world of humanity"  AB05042


Through education we must free ourselves from these imperfections. The Prophets of God have been sent, the Holy Books have been written, so that man may be made free.  ABU2403

Give thanks to God that you have been enabled to teach the young plants of the Garden of Abha, and in this process other children also receive their share and portion.  AB03674

All the people of the earth are like young children and ignorant pupils reciting their lessons. Therefore, sit in the school of knowledge and become a teacher of love   AB02647

The care, protection and assistance of them all is obligatory and necessary so that they may be well educated and become worthy successors to those noble predecessors   AB02116

Every possible means of education must be made available to Baha'i children, tender plants of the divine garden, for in this consisteth the illumination of humankind.   AB02250

Enroll the children in the divine school and, like a teacher of love, impart to them realities and meanings so that through the celestial power they may attain maturity  AB10853

O saplings of the divine garden! You have sprouted from that tree of mystic knowledge and grown and developed in the garden of the guidance of the All-Merciful Beauty.   AB06958

And service consists of purity of intention, abundance of effort, and self-sacrifice in diffusing the divine fragrances and educating the saplings of the divine garden.  AB04259

The first and the most important lesson is the inculcation of morality, the refinement of character, the beautification of the inner man and the cleansing of the heart.  ABU1705

Thou hast written regarding the education of the children. It is very acceptable and beloved. Unquestionably these children shall make ideal and spiritual advancements.  AB11492

The children's school on Sunday and the reading of the Tablets and teachings of Baha'u'llah and the delivery of the Word of God to the ears of children is very blessed.   AB06394

Blessed art thou, who in thy tender age hast acknowledged the grandeur and majesty of God. Blessed be the mother who nursed thee and fulfilled her duty as was befitting.   BH10837

The beloved ones must be educators of souls, nurturing them with spiritual virtues and conscientious attraction. The right of guidance is one of the aspects of education.  ABU1735

in Ardistan they may so educate the children of the friends that each one may become a flower in the garden of faithfulness and a cypress tree in the paradise of guidance   AB04313

The blessed School of the Oneness of Humanity serves the entire human world, and the Girls' School, like a blessed tree and plant, will surely grow and develop day by day   AB02691

Hands which have labored in the Cause of education are ever blessed. I am pleased with your hands. I love such hands very much, because they have worked for the children.   ABU3431

Confirm them in their lessons. Make them successful in their studies; - so that when they reach the age of maturity they may arise in the service of the world of humanity.  ABU3070

the progress of the children in the Kingdom of God, who with faces luminous and tongues eloquent are familiarizing themselves with the qualities and attributes of the Almighty  AB12231

Train the children in such wise that each one may become proficient in academic and material sciences and divine meanings, and may become an adornment to the world of humanity.  AB09481

Elijah gathered some of the young men and taught them the religion of God in the cave. They became holy souls. Having educated them, he sent them out to teach among the people.   ABU0408

In truth you exerted the utmost effort in the Primary School, and now in the School of Tarbiyat as well you have engaged in teaching children freely. This too is a noble service  AB07346

You should establish a school in Isfahan or in the villages and become engaged in the education of children. Consider this important matter as one of the most important affairs.   AB07254

For example, if children remain in the wilderness and receive no education at all, they will certainly remain ignorant, they will certainly remain unaware of the civilized world.  ABU0400

As for the spiritual gatherings which are assemblies for presenting proofs and evidences and for the progress and education of youth - these are truly worthy of the utmost praise.  AB03115

O thou who art firm in the Covenant! Give thanks unto God that thou art a teacher in the Hamadan school and art educating and training the fresh saplings of the garden of humanity.  AB07996

engage in teaching the students of that illustrious person and educating the children of the newcomers, and give lessons in teaching and impart a necessary portion of the sciences   AB03640

My hope is that this gathering may become, in that region, a source of divine outpourings and the cause of the manifestation of divine illumination and the education of human souls.  AB06745

From the beginning of his life, ever make mention to him of the Blessed Beauty that he may become a Baha'i child and become spiritual, and receive a share and portion of eternal grace.  AB08823

Due regard for the education of girls is, therefore, necessary. This is a very important subject, and it should be administered and organized under the aegis of the Spiritual Assembly.  AB01967

If the school is deficient, it must absolutely be brought to completion, for if students go from this school to other schools, eventually their character and behavior will deteriorate.   AB03249

"After children in school strive and acquire sciences and reach the utmost degree of perfection, everyone testifies that they are perfect - their very deeds testify to their perfection"  ABU1437

Endeavor to educate children, that thou mayest witness heavenly inspiration, and make a mighty effort in the progress of the young plants, that thou mayest receive heavenly confirmations  AB10338

From the very beginning of his life, always mention the Blessed Beauty to him so that he may become a Baha'i child and become spiritual, receiving his share and portion of eternal grace.  AB08823

Make this school of ours the envy of Paradise and a musk-diffusing rose-garden. Make our hearts worthy of Thy boundless grace and our breasts worthy of the realities of divine knowledge.  AB09134

The entire letter concerns education, particularly: "I hope that through your efforts the children will progress day by day in the acquisition of knowledge and excel all other schools."   AB02683

Leave a child to himself and he becomes ill-mannered and thoughtless. He must be shown the path, so that he may become acquainted with the world of the soul - the world of divine gifts.   ABU1016

He nourisheth the suckling babes with the milk of His loving kindness and doth educate the young through the outpouring clouds of His generosity, like saplings in the garden of His grace.  AB03520

And teach the tender sapling of the garden of guidance, that is, the noble son, wonderful praises and odes that perchance one day he may recite them in the gathering of the yearning ones.   AB02341

Inform the near (dear) maid-servant of God [thy wife], who hath organized a school of industry in order that children may learn an industry and chant communes, that this is very agreeable.  AB00587

Inform the near (dear) maid-servant of God [thy wife], who hath organized a school of industry in order that children may learn an industry and chant communes, that this is very agreeable.   AB00587

Praise be to God the schools of education were not disrupted through your assistance. The schools of education are of utmost importance and to assist them is an obligation binding upon all.  AB08643

When 'Abdu'l-Baha remembers you, he finds ultimate joy, and when he looks upon you, he observes that you are matchless saplings growing with utmost freshness and grace in the Garden of Abha.  AB01547

Although thou art small, yet I hope thou wilt become great in the Kingdom. His Highness Christ says: "Happy is the condition of the children." God willing, thou shalt be one of these children.  AB08281

They should set an example to their fellow-men, manifest a true and sincere love towards each other and educate their children in such a manner as to blazon the fame and glory of their family.  ABU2222

Praised be God that there is now a school of this type in Tihran where young maidens can, through His bounty, receive an education and with all vigour acquire the accomplishments of humankind.  AB04966

Since you are engaged in teaching at the Zoroastrian school, this praiseworthy deed is highly acceptable in the sight of God... for the education of children is service to the Court of Oneness   AB03426

God willing, may the Almighty and Exalted One grant unto those who expound a motherly nature and fatherly compassion, that the children of time may be educated and attain unto hearing and sight   BH03206

This evanescent servant beseecheth God - exalted be His glory - to aid and grant success to those souls who have unanimously determined to serve the Cause, that is, to educate and refine souls.   BH01579

A teacher trains and reproaches his students and this comes from love, but the children would be happy at the death of the teacher. When they hear the teacher is ill, they rejoice and celebrate.  ABU0630

Never employ an inexperienced person in the school. On behalf of Abdu'l-Baha, request five hundred tumans from Jinab-i-Amin for assistance to the Tay'yid School, and deliver the enclosed letter.  AB10851

If the human self is left to its natural state, the character of all children will become reprehensible and satanic... Now the difference between you and the people of Central Africa is education  ABU2246

Now must ye widen the scope of your endeavours and draw up plans to establish schools for higher education, so that the City of Love will become the Baha'i focal centre for science and the arts.   AB02250

They must also organize the affairs of the school in such way that day by day it may progress; otherwise, it will become a disgrace and the friends of God will surely not allow for this to happen.  AB00640

Today, they who have recognized God must strive mightily to educate heedless souls, that all may attain unto that which God desireth and may arise to aid the Cause through tongue, heart and deeds.   BH05339

Praise God that thou hast been assisted and confirmed in educating Baha'i children. This is a great bounty - know thou its worth and strive day and night that thou mayest progress moment by moment.  AB12416

educating children who were born in the bosom of Thy love and nursed from the breast of Thy care and raised in the cradle of Thy guidance and nurtured by the outpourings of the cloud of Thy favors   AB05455

And in accordance with the recommendation you had made about Monsieur the School Principal, we met with him and showed the utmost kindness. The person in question is noble, gentle and mild-mannered.  AB05675

You educated a new generation of youth in the knowledge of your Lord with all joy and fragrance, and gave them to drink from the cup of divine knowledge, and nurtured them in the cradle of assurance  AB01162

I hope that you will be educated as you ought to be and that each of you will become the pride of your family. May God assist you to acquire divine knowledge in the school of the world of humanity.   ABU2244

It appears that you are engaged in teaching the daughters of the martyred one. This service of yours is acceptable at the Threshold of Oneness and a cause of drawing near to the Most Great Threshold.  AB09440

God be praised, thou art engaged in serving at the Tarbiyat School and occupied with the service of the Cause. Thou art instructing the young women and expounding the luminous verses of God unto them.  AB05426

The greatest consideration must be shown towards orphans; they must be taught, trained and educated. The Teachings of Baha'u'llah, especially, must by all means be given to them as far as is possible.  AB08817

Would that a group of young saplings from the divine garden were present in that school, and day and night with the utmost joy and fragrance would receive proofs and arguments from that eminent leader   AB01320

My hope is that you will ever nourish those children from the breast of the love of God and grant them fresh life at every moment through the life-giving breeze of the rose-garden of the Kingdom of God.  AB12462

Today, at the Threshold of His Holiness Baha'u'llah, there is nobody more favored than thee, because thou art busy in the service of the orphans and in the education of the destitute, helpless children.  AB09116

A man intellectually may become enabled to educate a few, but general education is imparted to the world of humanity through the prophets of God, because they are the real Instructors of the human race.  ABU2383

Train the children in such wise that each one may become proficient in all the sciences and arts, both literary and material, and in divine meanings, and may become an adornment to the world of humanity.  AB09481

Children must first be trained in divine virtues and encouraged and urged to improve their character. Thereafter, efforts must be made to teach them sciences, crafts and knowledge to the extent possible.  ABU2705

As I am eager to learn and have lost my chance in this fashion, therefore I weep...Baha'u'llah teaches him so well that after a few months Azziz will become well-known for his extraordinary intelligence.  ABU2005

How many children are seen in the land without father or mother - if no attention is paid to their education and training they will remain fruitless, and a fruitless soul's death is preferable to its life.  BH01525

The establishment of charitable assistance for the education of children and support of teachers and students from the Teaching Assembly, as well as sending teachers to various regions, is very appropriate.  AB07567

To teach in the universities and schools ideas concerning universal peace, so that the student may be so molded that in after years he may help carry to fruition the most useful and human issue of mankind.   ABU3349

If some children are poor, they are accepted into the school free of charge and their needs are provided for. Moreover, the Tarbiyat School is not the only school in Tehran - there are other schools as well   AB02073


Today the spread of beneficial sciences, the discovery of material mysteries of creation, the promotion of useful arts, and the education of children are counted among the greatest gifts of the Lord of Glory  AB01485

I supplicate God that they may become the servants of the Cause of God as their father and mother have, and be trained according to Bahai education, so that they may become two great signs of the love of God.  AB02956

It is not permissible even to strike an animal. When an animal is trained properly, it becomes domesticated. Thereby is the crooked branch made straight, and the thorny thicket transformed into a rose-garden.  ABU3738

In Baha'i schools children learn not only sciences, but also moral rectitude and are well protected. In such schools, however, the teachers must be Baha'is so that children are nourished with divine teachings.  ABU2818

As the children are few in number, it is not possible to have different classes and naturally only one is necessary. Concerning the last question regarding differences among children, act as ye deem advisable.  AB07530

The matter of the school is very important. It is hoped through the effort of the divine friends that the 'Ishqabad school will become among the highest institutions, even surpassing the advanced schools abroad.  AB01713

Especially must one be vigilant and strive for the children, that each may become a manifest standard in the divine world and achieve the utmost progress in knowledge, sciences, arts and present-day civilization.   AB03230

They needlessly drove these helpless ones away from here; at the very least they could have educated the girls. Although they are prejudiced and constantly teach prayers to the children, this is due to ignorance.   ABU2041

Today the diffusion of sciences, the training in arts, and the instruction of children - both boys and girls - are amongst the greatest and most fundamental principles of this radiant century and this glorious age.  AB02747

teachers who came to Iran did not cause the progress and civilization of the Israelites, but rather stripped the youth of the adornment of faith and imbued them with the opinions and thoughts of Voltaire and Darwin  AB01258

Give lessons in divine love to children who are studying, and teach them heavenly teachings, for children and youth require training in character, morals and proper conduct more than they need learning and knowledge.  AB07846

Through His training these oppressed and downtrodden people, slaves and captives of the Pharaohs, established the splendor of the Solomonic sovereignty. This is an example of a universal Teacher, a universal Educator.  ABU0280

Let handmaidens be educated and nurtured such that each may praise Him with her own distinct voice and shine forth so brilliantly in the world of creation as to render obsolete the mention of the women of former times.  AB09183

they conducted themselves well and I was pleased with them... such a mother raised these two worthy youth well, nourishing them at the breast of the love of God and nurturing them in the cradle of the knowledge of God   AB04967

They must foster them with the milk of the love of God from infancy and rear them in the bosom of His knowledge. They must animate and stimulate them to show forth praiseworthy character and good behaviour and demeanour  AB01549

If this college had been a Baha'i college, it would have been excellent, producing accomplished graduates. Now our hope is that although the administrators are not Baha'is, yet accomplished Baha'is will emerge from it.   ABU1488

Let us see what the students will do. God willing, may they acquire such proficiency in English that they may succeed in this task. They must attain the utmost proficiency in English, and likewise in Persian and Arabic.  ABU0561

the greatest means is education of the child. To this must each and all hold fast. We have verily laid this charge upon you in manifold Tablets as well as in My Most Holy Book. Well is it with him who deferreth thereto.   BH09181

There are some mothers who have a strange, inexplicable love for their children. One may call it the inversion of love or as we call it in Persia "bearish love". This kind of love does more injury to the child than good.  ABU0973

Christ - may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him - praised the children, meaning those children who enter the Kingdom are like fresh flowers that have blossomed in the meadow of reality, in the utmost freshness and delicacy.  AB12368

Consider that Abidor-Rahman Pasha receives one fourth of the entire crop and produce from the farmers in his village, Mokoubé, just next door to you. On the other hand you are charged only one per tenth and nothing more.  ABU1467

Give great importance to the Ta'yid School. Make every effort through all means that it may make great progress and become distinguished and renowned among the schools of Iran, for it is connected to this momentous Cause.  AB01016

His honor Aqa Mirza Masih Khan and his honor Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'llah, praise be to God, are confirmed in service to the Cause of God in the School of Ta'yid and are engaged with utmost effort in teaching Baha'i youth and others  AB04121

Indeed, the news of the occupation of the apple of my eye, 'Inayatu'llah, was a cause of joy and gladness. Praise and thanks be to God. However, you must be informed of his movements, for he is a child and requires education.  BH03267

If you leave children to themselves and provide no training, they will become evil. For example, if one ill-mannered child is among a thousand wise and learned children, after one day with them he will make them ill-mannered.  ABU2247

The infant, while yet a suckling, must receive Baha'i training, and the loving spirit of Christ and Baha'u'llah must be breathed into him, that he may be reared in accord with the verities of the Gospel and the Most Holy Book.  AB06337

Now you should focus on the diffusion of divine fragrances and on organizing children's schools. Today two things are necessary: one is the diffusion of fragrances, meaning teaching, and the other is the education of children.  ABU3666

Children and grandchildren who, being of noble lineage, are aided by goodly character - that is to say, who are illumined by the effulgences of the Luminary of the horizons - are to be counted among righteous deeds that endure.  AB09418

I beseech God that He may enable them to raise an honoured family, for the importance of marriage lieth in the bringing up of a richly blessed family, so that with entire gladness they may, even as candles, illuminate the world.   AB05176

Therefore you must look upon him with the eye of grace and nurture him in the embrace of education and watch over him day and night so that, God willing, he may become like his father and be born of the element of heart and soul.  AB01392

"Regarding this martyr's daughter whom the Persian friends have educated and taught to read - if she could teach at the girls' school in Rahat-Abad without causing agitation among the ignorant ones, it would be very appropriate."  AB01965

In all circumstances, they must focus their thoughts on educating people so that the nation becomes educated and knowledgeable. When this purpose is achieved, the prosperity of government and people will become manifest and evident.  AB02264

Parents must find out as to that calling or profession for the acquisition of which their children show the most aptitude and natural desire - and then they must train them in the same, by engaging their attention in that direction.  ABU2502

This education of children is one of many matters. Each beneficial matter that causes the progress of the human world is like an element - a single element does not bestow life, but when elements combine, a being comes into existence.  AB01335

Praise be to God, He enabled children to acquire knowledge and wisdom and made newcomers into unrivaled saplings in the garden of guidance. He made each one, like the morning bird, speak forth spiritual mysteries with celestial songs.  AB01172

This is the explicit command of the Blessed Perfection and all mankind must abide by it. I desire for you that which would become conducive to the exaltation of your own station and the increase of your moral and intellectual stamina.  ABU0510

May handmaidens be raised up and nurtured who shall each, with their own voice, sing His praise, and who shall appear and shine forth in the world of creation in such wise as to render obsolete all mention of the women of former times.  AB09183

"Concerning the teacher for the Bombay school - whoever you deem appropriate, who is truly qualified and skilled, perfect in character, and who will not be weakened by India's climate - write to Tehran so that Jinab-i-Amin may send him"  AB12241

I want to release them from this water and clay, clear their wings from these impediments but they cry out 'no, no we are suns and stars; we are not in need of thy education.' Notwithstanding this, I must open the way for their freedom.  ABU2348

The Ta'yid School is the centre of confirmations in Hamadan and among the important institutions of this great age. Although outwardly it has no importance at present, in the future, its fame and renown will perhaps encompass the world.  AB03279

Let thyself be reared in the cradle of the loving providence of God and suck the milk of divine knowledge from the breast of His bounty... O Lord! Graciously assist this child to grow and be quickened in the meads of Thy tender affection  AB10915

These lovely children are the handiwork of the fingers of Thy might and the wondrous signs of Thy greatness. O God! Protect these children, graciously assist them to be educated and enable them to render service to the world of humanity.  AB10714

Nurture children from infancy at the breast of education, raise them in the cradle of virtues, and develop them in the embrace of bounty. Make them proficient in every beneficial science and grant them a portion of every wonderful craft.  AB00551

If thou givest true Baha'i education to those two young trees in the garden of Abha, know thou of a certainty that the highest glory, prosperity and success will become ready and prepared for them. This is the cause of everlasting honor.  AB10575

God willing, through divine favor they shall grow up and attain to lofty stations. Every great one was small before the manifestation of His grandeur, except these little ones who are great in the divine Kingdom and whose station is mighty   BH02601

teach them the basics of English now and train them in praiseworthy characteristics...You must now strive with complete dedication to teach them morals, good beliefs, and divine education. Endeavor night and day that they may learn English.  AB06654

For the Tarbiyat School a knowledgeable teacher who is learned and skilled in the English language is needed, because in the Tarbiyat School there is no knowledgeable English-speaking person - they need both knowledge and English language.   AB04684

As to thee, have for them an abundant love and exert thine utmost in training them, so that their being may grow through the milk of the love of God, for as much as it is the duty of parents to perfectly and thoroughly train their children.  AB02613

As to what you wrote concerning the establishment of a primary school and that which raises the stations of man, after it was presented before Him, He said: "Excellent is what they have undertaken." In the realms of knowledge and wisdom, the advancement of the world, and the refinement and tranquility of nations, the education of children holds the foremost rank. Blessed is the one who has arisen to educate children for the sake of God. Time and again, in the past and present, We have counseled the friends of God and commanded them to this firm decree. We beseech God to assist His friends in that which He loves and is pleased with. BH00954

"Take your dear child away from those heedless ones, for they are after him to completely lead him astray from the straight path. Keep him with you for a while and educate him as you should, then send him to another school in another place."  AB05047

the Christians intend, whenever they find opportunity and means, to establish a school in Najafabad and teach the children...they completely transform the morals of the children to such a degree that they rise up in opposition to their parents  AB03999

Know that the most noble of all professions, crafts and occupations is teaching children. If this duty is carried out as it should and must be, universal results will be achieved. One becomes the cause of insight and awareness for many people.  AB04286

O ye young Baha'i children, ye seekers after true understanding and knowledge! [...] Ye must therefore put forth a mighty effort, striving by night and day and resting not for a moment, to acquire an abundant share of all the sciences and arts   AB06380

If thou conduct thyself with faithfulness, and, God willing, comport thyself in such wise as to bring consolation to the hearts, and ensure for the children a goodly upbringing and education, it will be a source of the greatest joy and happiness.  AB05519

That is to say, seek out such a way and conduct, strive after such a character and disposition, and choose such manners and behavior, that like honey and sugar they may be full of sweetness. Then will the secluded women of Iran follow your example  AB09464

Through the training in the Lucid Book, may you provide the children of tender age with the wisdom and understanding of elders; and endow the unwise amidst those advanced in years with the perception and intelligence of the bright and vivid youth.  AB10587

Today the education of children and their protection is regarded as the most meritorious of all deeds in the sight of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High. Though outwardly it may be toilsome, yet it is the cause of eternal rest and has ever been so.  BH11469

As for the matter of the school, this matter is important. Refer to the Department of Education so that specific allocations for that school may be established. I will also write to the Spiritual Assembly to send a complete teacher for that school.   AB02068

Services to the divine Threshold are manifold, but the greatest of all services and the most meritorious deed is the education of the children and of the daughters of the friends of God, and the instruction of the orphans and minors of His chosen ones.  AB07202

The education of children is a great service, that they may be trained with divine instruction, and their character must be developed lest they become wayward. Children are like fresh branches: a fresh branch may be trained in whatever way one desires.  ABU1077

Briefly, some are mere children; with the utmost love we must educate them to make them wise. Others are sick and ailing; we must tenderly treat them until they recover. Some have unworthy morals; we must train them toward the standard of true morality.  ABU0268

It is for this reason that Baha'Ullah in all this tablets has made it incumbent upon all to study sciences and arts, encouraging everyone in the acquirement of learning and a liberal education for the eternal happiness of mankind lies in these (things).  ABU0472

You must sow the seeds of Peace in the plastic minds of the children, teach them the victories of Peace, surround them with the lessons of Peace, envelope them with the atmosphere of Peace and inspire their hearts with the glorious achievements of Peace.  ABU1639

Although the realm of India is lethargic and in need of the education of souls who are in the utmost weariness and lethargy, yet if they are nurtured through divine education, in a short time they will become alive and attain the utmost joy and expansion.   AB05370

Today I am going to speak to you on the object of the appearance of the prophets. It is evident that the world of humanity is in need of educators. As we look at the phenomenal world we observe that growth and development depend upon culture and education.  ABU0605

In truth, poor children are also accepted into the school free of charge, and moreover the friends are attentive to their clothing and sustenance. If possible, please correct this matter to indicate that the Tarbiyat School, praise be to God, has no needs   AB00968

That thou art nurtured and developed by the outpouring of the Cloud of the Most Great Guidance; art stirred into cheerfulness by the wafting of the Breeze of the Divine Spring and art adorned with foliage and blossoms by the gentle rays of the Sun of Truth.  AB07308

The servants must be educated and, with joy and radiance, be made aware of that which profiteth them, that they may become cognizant of the cause and purpose of their own existence and creation, and may see themselves free and detached from all else but God.  BH06586

The matter of the school is most important. Through God's help and favor, it must be established before all that this is the first school of Iran and the students must achieve complete success; otherwise, its non-existence would be better than its existence.  AB05281

For in this wondrous Dispensation, after the recognition of the exalted Truth, the greatest excellence of the human world is the acquisition of material and literary sciences and arts. Therefore, the loved ones of God must strive diligently in their studies.  AB02950

Train your children from their earliest days to be infinitely tender and loving to animals. If an animal be sick, let the children try to heal it, if it be hungry, let them feed it, if thirsty, let them quench its thirst, if weary, let them see that it rests.  AB00890

The Beha'is in Akka have a boys' school. Every Friday the pupils are brought by their teacher to the Master's house, to submit to his inspection exercises which they have prepared in Persian and English penmanship and in translation from Persian into English.  ABU1483

Know thou, that as you are the only son of that illumined and erudite scholar, the expectant eyes of many, including mine, await and look forward to your becoming the inimitable and fruitful tree of that stream, possessing the merits of both virtue and nobility.  AB08625

My hope is that the Tarbiyat School may be under the protection of the one true God, and may achieve extraordinary progress. And may all the friends strive that day by day it may attain greater organization and that sciences and arts may spread more abundantly.   AB11746

The education of children and the nurturing of youth is the noblest of all human accomplishments and attracts the favors and bounties of the All-Merciful Lord, for it is the very foundation of human excellence and the cause of eternal ascent to everlasting glory.  AB01170

You are at the beginning of growth and maturity, and in the prime of youth. Therefore, like a sapling of paradise, grow and develop through the outpourings of the cloud of the All-Merciful, and with spiritual freshness and heavenly grace, bring forth sweet fruits  AB09693

Regarding the education of children in faith and certitude, knowledge and wisdom, and devotion and supplication to the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, this was written about in detail in a previous lengthy letter that was sent. Surely the utmost effort must be made.   AB00781

Ye who are the teachers thereof must devote more of your efforts to character training than instruction, and must raise up your girl children to be modest and chaste, of good character and conduct -- and in addition must teach them the various branches of knowledge.   AB05542

His Holiness the Chief of Chiefs, who attained the highest station in the world of joy (may the spirit of those near to God be sacrificed for him), established an institute of learning. He was the first blessed person to lay the foundation of this mighty enterprise.  AB00787

The training of children is a great service when they are educated according to divine instruction. The character of children must be trained so they do not become wayward. Children are like fresh branches - a fresh branch can be trained in whatever way one desires.  ABU1031

The teacher of material principles is limited. The philosophers who claimed to be the educators of mankind were at most only able to train themselves. If they educated others, it was within a restricted circle; they failed to bestow general education and development.  ABU1034

Praise be to God, the Tarbiyat School has become a school of truth, and the young saplings of humanity's garden are acquiring arts and sciences with perfect integrity and uprightness, while the esteemed teachers have arisen to teach the children with utmost capability  AB01485

The mothers in the homes, the teachers in the schools, the professors in the universities, and the leaders in the lofty gatherings, must cause these thoughts to be penetrative and effective, as the spirit, circulating in the veins and nerves of the children and pupils  ABU0938

Praise be to God that ye are illumined by the light of knowledge and are earnestly striving to acquire noble virtues. At the threshold of the Abha Beauty ye are regarded with favour and in the school of education ye are suckling babes at the breast of arts and sciences.  AB09999

As to the question about the death of a child at the age of maturity - although a child becomes responsible after reaching maturity, some children in their early years drink from the breast of guidance. Surely these children are manifestations of divine grace and bounty.  AB01330

Therefore, according to divine commandments, every child must learn reading and writing and acquire necessary and beneficial sciences, as well as learning a craft or trade. These matters require the utmost effort; negligence and laxity in this regard are not permissible.  AB02095

Suckle your children from their infancy with the milk of a universal education, and rear them so that from their earliest days, within their inmost heart, their very nature, a way of life will be firmly established that will conform to the divine Teachings in all things.  AB06584

This school is the cause of fellowship, the cause of love, the cause of children's progress. Every effort must be made so that in that city it becomes a glorious school and all will testify that in this school the children are being educated as they should and ought to be.   AB03110

Education and training are the most important issues in the world of existence. Without an educator, little progress can be made in material affairs, still less in spiritual affairs and divine morals. How can humanity find composure and eternal happiness without an educator?  ABU2331

If man reflects well, he will find how important is the spiritual education of children from an early age. Whatever is impressed upon minds in early life, and in which a child grows and develops for a time, becomes so firmly rooted in his heart that it becomes a second nature.  ABU1816

Kindness, training and education extended to prisoners is exceedingly important. Therefore as thou hast exerted an effort in this, hast awakened some of them, and hast been the cause of the turning of their faces to the divine Kingdom, this praiseworthy deed is highly acceptable.  AB03471

There exists a great Confirmation in the School of Tarbiat which is founded by the friends. Although at this moment it is observed but by a few, yet it is assisted by the Almighty. If the believers of God display generosity, that school will progress day by day in all its grades.  AB11303

Regarding Ghulam-'Abbas whom you placed in the agricultural school six leagues from Tehran - this is very good. However, regarding Jinab-i-Ghulam-Husayn, if his being sent to Beirut is not possible, it does not matter. In this there is consummate wisdom which cannot be mentioned.   AB03633

A wise young man ever thinks of and studies those means which are conducive to his progress - mental, intellectual and spiritual. He lets all amusements and recreations go and applies himself to the acquirement of knowledge - thus he may become a useful member of the body politic.  ABU2391

The education of the children of the friends, who are nurtured in the embrace of the love of God, is among the most important matters and most beloved pursuits, and is the foundation of the divine religion and the greatest obligation of parents, relatives and spiritual companions.  AB11823

O divine teachers! You have arisen to render a service that is truly worthy of praise and commendation, for you are educating and training tender saplings in the Garden of Abha. This service excels all other services and this endeavor deserves a thousand praises and glorifications.  AB04066

"Then this duty performed I went to the school and examined the pupils. Those who were doing well I gave them money or gifts, others I encouraged to push forward. Thus all the students graduated from that school received much praise and scholarships in Damascus and Constantinople."  ABU1452

It is essential that the children be educated, and their lessons and exercises must be seen to with the greatest of care; for bringing up children in the ways of God is the very foundation of the foundation, and so long as the foundation is not solid, it is useless to build thereon.  AB11404

The education of children, both boys and girls, is among the most fundamental principles of this wondrous Cause and mighty Message. According to the sacred law of God, it is obligatory and essential for parents, and even relatives, to educate and teach the child reading and writing.  AB03229

These will become very good, because they will receive Baha'i education. They will be reared beneath the shelter of Baha'u'llah. Therefore, they will be very well educated; they will become fruitful trees; they will become very blessed trees; they will become most delectable trees.   ABU1781

Either establish your own schools or do as we are doing. We have many students in the [Beirut's] University. Last year there were thirty of them. They associate only with themselves [i.e. other Baha'is] and at the time of instructions attend classes. Therefore they are well-protected.   ABU0793

Praise be to God, you are engaged in teaching children and educating them, and the children are occupied with reciting clear verses, glad tidings, prayers, Ishraqat, and holy words. I hope that each of these children will become a peerless teacher and a cause of guidance to the people.   AB04660

Thou writest in thine own hand and acquirest knowledge and understanding, that thou mayest present proof and evidence to others. Make an effort to study properly, that thou mayest, God willing, translate and interpret the verses of the Divine Books for the handmaidens of the All-Merciful.  AB08514

Baha'i children must excel other children in the acquisition of sciences and arts, for they are the recipients of the glance of favor. Whatever other children learn in the course of one year, the tender plants of the paradise of recognition - the Baha'i children - must learn in one month.  AB06122

And when God gives you sweet and lovely children, exert yourselves in their education and training, so that they may become the imperishable flowers of the divine rose-garden, the nightingales of the ideal paradise, the servants of the world of humanity and the fruits of the Tree of Life.   ABU0364

Give great importance to the matter of educating children, for this is the foundation of the Law of God and the cornerstone of the edifice of the Religion of God. If you only knew how much joy results from the matter of children, assuredly all the friends would educate children in this way.   AB07328

Consider likewise the animals: If an animal is trained it becomes domesticated; whereas man, if he is left without education, becomes like an animal. Indeed, if man is abandoned to the rule of nature, he sinks even lower than the animal, whereas if he is educated he becomes even as an angel.  AB00081

Praise be to God that thou hast a kind father and a mother firm in faith and certitude, who desire thy protection, safety, preservation and defence from every direction, and who seek thy lofty station and exalted rank. I beseech God that they may be assisted to raise thee with divine education.  AB09283

teaching the tender young plants in the garden of the love of God with utmost effort in science and culture, instructing them in spiritual qualities, and teaching them proofs and evidences - is so they may become fresh and graceful saplings of matchless beauty and sweetness in the Abha Paradise  AB02923

The well-known Persian students of the past were unable to bring about any advancements in their native land, but God grant that you all, on the other hand, will be able to render some service to Persia - that you will study such disciplines as will redound to the rehabilitation of that country  ABU3712

"The school of Ishkabad has great importance. You who are going there, strive that it may become orderly, so that the children may progress. May they reach such a degree in knowledge and sciences that the fame of this school may reach to the horizons. Great effort is necessary to accomplish this."  ABU1035

He hath two dear sons and hopeth they may receive a goodly education, acquire sciences and arts, and become true Baha'is. However, in Rasht the means of education are lacking. Therefore, exert yourselves and request these two children from Rasht and enroll them in the Tarbiyat School without charge.  AB11354

The Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah has stressed in all His Holy Writings, in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, in the Ishraqat, in the Kalimat-i-Firdawsiyyih, in the Lawh-i-Bisharat etc, in brief in all His glorious Revelations, the necessity for a well-directed educational system for boys and girls, rich and poor.   ABU0376

If her dear daughter Margaret be trained according to the instructions of God, she will grow to be a peerless plant in the garden of the heart. It is incumbent upon the father to choose for his daughter the glory that dieth not. Nevertheless, this is up to him; he may educate her in any way he desireth.  AB00263

That divine Teacher hath given lessons in spiritual stations in this school, hath expounded divine mysteries, and hath spread true teachings so that human souls, who are like suckling babes, may be nurtured in the arms of grace and receive sustenance from the breast of spiritual bounties, grow and develop  AB03816

Teach your children to recite the verses of God at morn and at eventide. God hath prescribed for every father to educate his children, both male and female, in learning and letters, then crafts and professions. Thus have We taught you in Our Most Holy Book which We have sent down from Our hallowed Kingdom.   BH11102

A child is as a young plant: it will grow in whatever way you train it. If you rear it to be truthful, and kind, and righteous, it will grow straight, it will be fresh and tender, and will flourish. But if not, then from faulty training it will grow bent, and stand awry, and there will be no hope of changing it.   AB02464

The fourth obligation is the protection and preservation of all the friends in all circumstances and situations, and the administration of general affairs such as the education of children, refinement of character, teaching of beneficial sciences in all aspects, establishment of schools for both males and females  AB01545

Aid him to educate the youth who have grown up in Thy love and been nurtured in the embrace of Thy knowledge and reached maturity through Thy bounty and grace, that he may teach them the proofs of Thy Manifestation, the evidences of Thy Cause, and the signs of Thy dawning, and instruct them in the Book and wisdom  AB00852

You have to make the children familiar with the prophecies in the Gospels and mentioning the name of God and about this Revelation, that is to say instruct them how to become teachers, so that the Love of God may be established in their hearts while they are young children. They should develop spiritual feelings.   ABU2419

In the Tablets of Baha'u'llah it is mentioned that if a rich man neglects the duty of educating his children, the House of Justice is authorized to compel him to assist financially and to educate them. But this is a matter for the family of that wealthy man and comes under the jurisdiction of the House of Justice.  ABU1072

these luminous children stepped into the human world. I beseech God to increase the confirmations and adorn the garden of existence with those smiling hundred-petaled roses, and that day by day they may achieve progress and advancement until they become signs of guidance and verses of the Book of Clear Distinction   AB06244


Blessed art thou, since thou art engaged in rendering a service which will make thy face to shine in the Abha Kingdom, and that is the education and training of children. If one should, in the right way, teach and train the children, he will be performing a service than which none is greater at the sacred Threshold.  AB07272

Train the children there and encourage and urge them to acquire knowledge in school. If there was a school here, I would have brought them here by decree, but there is no school, and I will arrange for their training and education, therefore watch over them carefully there so they receive proper training and education.  AB05076

Mothers are the first educators of children. They must nurse their infants from the breast of the religion of God and the law of God, so that the love of God may flow with the milk and depart with the soul. Unless mothers educate their children and establish divine principles, education will not yield complete results.  AB00965

Assuredly, an untutored child who can read is better than one who has acquired all knowledge but has not entered beneath the shadow of a divine educator, for from the latter harm will result while from the former it will not; and if one has received no education but has received divine training, that will yield results.  ABU1988

We have been greatly cheered and refreshed to know that ye have organized meetings for the education of children. Whoso is active in those meetings whether as a teacher of the children or a sponsor, will certainly become the recipient of confirmations from the invisible Realm, and endless bounties will compass him about.  AB08705


The world is dark as pitch-black night from the ignorant ones. The men of the field must kindle such a light that this darkness of error may be transformed into the light of guidance. And souls that are like animals must receive such divine training that they become the source of glory and pride for the tribes of the world.  AB04437

Train these children with divine exhortations. From their childhood instill in their hearts the love of God so they may manifest in their lives the fear of God and have confidence in the bestowals of God. Teach them to free themselves from human imperfections and to acquire the divine perfections latent in the heart of man.   ABU0528

This purpose is most acceptable and praiseworthy. I hope that through God's eternal bounty they will be assisted and enabled to render this service, which is the greatest endeavor, and cause those young children to benefit from divine sciences and knowledge, acquire the power of teaching, and be trained in divine education.   AB11902

Your services and labors in this most glorious Cause are well-known and renowned, and the honored Tavangar has written of them in detail. But for this service at the Sacred Threshold, great thanksgiving is necessary and ordained, for the education and training of girls leads to servitude at the threshold of the Lord of Verses.  AB07093

Until now no significant enlightened souls have appeared in the assemblies of Iran, and if there be any, the rare is as the non-existent. However, it is understood that in those regions there exist intelligent and capable youth who, if educated in human perfections, would become the cause of Iran's and Iranians' eternal glory.  AB09913

The establishment of girls' schools is among the most important matters and, according to the decisive texts of the All-Forgiving Lord, is of infinite importance and absolute necessity in the view of the people of understanding. For it is the foundation of human education and the basis for the prosperity and success of humanity.  AB07694

And when you had grown somewhat, he carried you to the divine homeland, the blessed spot near the sacred valley of the right side of Mount Sinai, where for a time you lived beneath the shadow of God's loving-kindness and became a pupil in the school of divine favors. You received instruction in penmanship and studied your lessons   AB06961

These human creatures are even as children, they are brash and unconcerned. These children must be reared with infinite, loving care, and tenderly fostered in the embraces of mercy, so that they may taste the spiritual honey-sweetness of God's love; that they may become like unto candles shedding their beams across this darksome world   AB00189

It is incumbent upon that Spiritual Assembly, that assemblage of God, to exert every effort to educate the children, so that from infancy they will be trained in Baha'i conduct and the ways of God, and will, even as young plants, thrive and flourish in the soft-flowing waters that are the counsels and admonitions of the Blessed Beauty.  AB01616

Schools must first train the children in the principles of religion, so that the Promise and the Threat recorded in the Books of God may prevent them from the things forbidden and adorn them with the mantle of the commandments; but this in such a measure that it may not injure the children by resulting in ignorant fanaticism and bigotry.  BH00111

As regards the members of school committee, in reality they are serving with heart and soul and are performing their duties with rejoicing. They put forward extraordinary exertion in the organization and systematization of the school and the instruction of the youth, while all the other believers are assisting and co-operating with them.  AB01158

Concerning what thou didst write about the education of children, it is obligatory and essential. If the father has the capacity and means - otherwise "God does not burden any soul beyond its capacity" - the father must strive to the extent possible to educate the child so that he will not be deprived of the gift of knowledge and learning.  AB12222

O fresh sapling in the garden of God's bounty! Praise be to God, thou hast a kind father and a mother firm in faith and certitude who desire thy protection, safety, preservation and support from every direction, and who seek thy lofty station and exalted character. I beseech God that they may be assisted to raise thee with divine education.  AB09283

Among the greatest of all services that can possibly be rendered by man to Almighty God is the education and training of children, young plants of the Abha Paradise, so that these children, fostered by grace in the way of salvation, growing like pearls of divine bounty in the shell of education, will one day bejewel the crown of abiding glory.   AB07264

Give great importance to the matter of character. All fathers and mothers must continuously counsel their children and guide them to that which is the cause of eternal glory. From an early age, guide the school children with perfect speeches so that in times of leisure and rest they may engage in eloquent speech and make excellent presentations.   AB00904

Every day at first light, ye gather the Baha'i children together and teach them the communes and prayers. This is a most praiseworthy act, and bringeth joy to the children's hearts: that they should, at every morn, turn their faces toward the Kingdom and make mention of the Lord and praise His Name, and in the sweetest of voices, chant and recite.   AB06194

So too, the education of girls in all the rules of righteous conduct, that they may grow up with a good character and high standards of behavior. For mothers are the first educators of the child, and every child at the beginning of life is like a fresh and tender branch in his parents' hands. His father and mother can train him in any way they choose.  AB08656

Children are of two kinds: Those capable of distinguishing and those incapable of distinguishing (right and wrong). Now, this child is too young to have the power of distinguishing and his sense or feeling has not yet developed. He should therefore be allowed to remain as he is until he grows older and develops capability and adaptability to training.   ABU1326

Nurture the tender saplings of the Abha Paradise with the flowing waters of spirit and fragrance, and through the showers of the bounty of the Lord God grant them growth and development. Strive as much as you can that these children may shine forth like peerless trees in the gardens of the All-Glorious with the utmost delicacy, freshness and sweetness.   AB06321

The school for girls taketh precedence over the school for boys, for it is incumbent upon the girls of this glorious era to be fully versed in the various branches of knowledge, in sciences and the arts and all the wonders of this pre-eminent time, that they may then educate their children and train them from their earliest days in the ways of perfection.  AB03327

There have been some young men who have been educated through my solicitude and recommendation. While they were going through their studies in the college they would write me most earnest letters that as soon as we finish our terms we will devote all our times in the service of the Cause. But once out of the college they were engaged with their own ideas.  ABU1335

Thou hast undertaken such a service that shouldst thou glory over all the teachers of the world, thou art deserving. For the teachers of the world confer a material education, so that human faculties, physical and ideal, may grow and develop; but thou art bestowing heavenly instruction and the lessons of the Kingdom to the new plans of the divine garden.   AB04065

"All children should be educated, but if parents cannot educate both the boys and the girls, then it would be better to educate the girls, for they will be the mothers of the coming generation. This is a radical idea for the East, where I come from, but it is already taking effect there, for the Bahai women of Persia are being educated along with the men."  ABU0516

They have arisen and remained steadfast in what You commanded them in Your firm scriptures, scrolls and tablets concerning the teaching, training and education of children who were born in Your days, nursed from the breast of Your love, raised in the cradle of Your care, nurtured in the bosom of Your grace, and brought up in the shelter of Your protection.   AB04553


And further, those present should concern themselves with every means of training the girl children; with teaching the various branches of knowledge, good behaviour, a proper way of life, the cultivation of a good character, chastity and constancy, perseverance, strength, determination, firmness of purpose; with household management, the education of children   AB03742

Children and descendants who, being of noble lineage, are confirmed in goodly character - that is, who are illumined by the effulgences of the Luminary of the horizons - are counted among good deeds that endure. Otherwise, they are detested, subject to wrath, rejected, and the father is addressed with the words "he is not of thy family; his conduct is unrighteous."  AB09418

A gathering is now convened and an assemblage hath united to strive with heart and soul that they may bestow upon the friends a share of the bountiful showers of Thy grace and may, through Thy nurturing power, rear their young children in the bosom of knowledge, make them the pride of the learned, teach them the divine religion, and manifest thereby the bounty of God.  AB01999

Now your continuous services in the Tarbiyat School are remembered in this servant's heart, that praise be to God through your efforts the Tarbiyat School has gained the light of guidance and day by day finds new organization. I hope that this school will become a nursery for the peerless saplings of the divine rose garden and produce brilliant scholars of the horizons.  AB02727

People do not know how magnificent a Baha'i school is, otherwise all would yearn for its establishment. A most excellent school, with such spirituality that it would render great service to the realm of knowledge, not merely education. It would render great service to the realm of morality and great service to the realm of truth. It would be the epitome of spirituality.  ABU2151

Thou didst make mention of the son of His Honor Hakim Mirza Ayyub, upon him be My Baha and loving-kindness, that he attendeth school, and thou didst likewise seek permission for thine own children. These ordinances have been revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas and other Books, and have been inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen; renewed questioning concerning them is not permitted.  BH08564

When a mother observes a praiseworthy action from a child, she should praise and commend it and gladden the child's heart. If the slightest useless action occurs, she should counsel the child and rebuke them, employing reasonable means including mild verbal correction if necessary. But hitting and beating is never permitted, for it completely corrupts children's character.   AB01105

You must administer the boys' school with utmost order and establish another school for girls, since the education of girls is also essential for the human world. A time will come when these girls will become mothers and must educate their own children. Certainly if they are knowledgeable, intelligent and aware, they will provide better education and teach more effectively.  AB04735

For children in their early growth and development enter these schools and receive refinement and education, and like fresh saplings planted by the hand of the Divine Gardener they are educated and acquire human manners and teachings and spiritual characteristics and qualities. And when they bear fruit they produce sweet fruits and send flowers and fragrant herbs to market.  AB04434

The Pen of Glory counselleth everyone regarding the instruction and education of children. Behold that which the Will of God hath revealed upon Our arrival in the Prison City and recorded in the Most Holy Book. Unto every father hath been enjoined the instruction of his son and daughter in the art of reading and writing and in all that hath been laid down in the Holy Tablet.  BH00053

Indeed, in Isfahan the establishment of a school for Baha'i children is obligatory and essential. If the divine friends would make an effort in this matter, it would be a cause of attaining the good-pleasure of the All-Merciful Lord. When children study in other schools to acquire knowledge and skills, they become of the same disposition and character as the ill-mannered ones.  AB02948

The day we were your guests and you presented the Baha'i children with their radiant faces was truly a blessed day that will never be forgotten...I supplicate to the Abha Kingdom that you may ever be the means of giving these children a Baha'i education, so that like saplings in the garden of the Kingdom they may be nurtured by the rain of heaven and each become a fruitful tree.  AB12581

This school is one of the vital and essential institutions which indeed support and bulwark the edifice of humankind. God willing, it will develop and be perfected along every line. Once this school hath, in every respect, been perfected, once it hath been made to flourish and to surpass all other schools, then, each following the other, more and more schools must be established.   AB05463

O Muhammad! The Countenance of the Ancient One has turned toward you and makes mention of you, and counsels the party of God regarding the education of children. If a father neglects this mighty command which has been revealed from the Pen of the Lord of Eternity in the Most Holy Book, the right of fatherhood will be forfeited and he will be accounted among the negligent before God.  BH09698

She remained for years, patiently enduring fatigue morning and evening, striving to cultivate the minds of innocent children from noble lineage. Never did she weaken in carrying out what was ordained for her in that distant region. Rather, she persevered night and day, evening and dawn, in serving Your loved ones and teaching the young ones nourished at the breast of Your providence  AB00927

I supplicate God that these children may be reared under His protection and that they may be nourished by His favor and grace until all, like beautiful flowers in the garden of human hopes and aspirations, shall blossom and become redolent of fragrance. O God! Educate these children. These children are the plants of Thine orchard, the flowers of Thy meadow, the roses of Thy garden.   ABU0129

Regarding the schools about which you wrote, certainly give the utmost importance to the Tarbiyat School. The Hands of the Cause must exert such effort in developing this school that it becomes adorned with the finest excellence - in its organization, furnishing, decoration, instruction and education. God willing, may it become a school that shines like a candle throughout all of Iran.  AB04989

May your parents educate you spiritually and give you thorough moral training. May you develop so that each one of you shall become imbued with all the virtues of the human world. May you advance in all material and spiritual degrees. May you become learned in sciences, acquire the arts and crafts, prove to be useful members of human society and assist the progress of human civilization.   ABU0666

Think of God, and let thy thought be of God, and let thy brother be trained according to the highest moral standard. In the tenderest years of their youth the pure hearts of boys and girls must be illumined with the light of love of God. Then when they grow up, most astonishing results will be produced, because the maps of their whole lives would be drawn with the hand of the spiritual Educator.  ABU1718

About what thou hadst written concerning the attraction and arising of Jinab-i-Shaykh Muhammad-'Ali, in truth, should any soul, like his honor and Jinab-i-Aqa Shaykh Haydar, engage in serving and educating the children of the friends, there is no doubt that they will become the recipients of the Blessed Beauty's glance of favor, and this deed will be adorned with acceptance in the Most Holy Court.  AB07999

Concerning what you wrote about 'Ata'iyyih, upon her be God's peace, and the gratitude you expressed, all was presented at the Holy Threshold. They said: Praise be to God, the favor of the Truth has encompassed and continues to encompass us, her, and all those associated. Now she is engaged in her studies with the utmost joy and delight. We beseech God to aid her with the hosts of words and knowledge.  BH09330

The Most honorable profession is the promotion of education. Thank ye God that in Hamadan in the school founded by the Baha'is ye have become teachers and Professors. 'Abdu'l-Baha is expecting to hear good news from that school; i.e. that the young fruits of the divine garden are being developed and educated in the college of realities and significances and are graduated in physical and spiritual sciences   AB06543

Do not refuse to teach and educate children in any school, for this Dispensation of the Blessed Beauty is the Dispensation of fellowship, love, kindness and goodwill toward all humanity, service to all mankind, and striving for the progress of all people. Therefore, any servant of God who is a teacher and seeks God's good pleasure should teach and educate children of any nation in whatever school possible.  AB02510

From the very beginning the educators instill the love of music in the hearts and minds of the children. In their common schools they are taught in a concrete manner the laws of harmony and motion. They memorize many songs and sing them quite unconsciously. The parents must see to it that their children are taught the best, classical music, such masterpieces that refine the souls and etherealize the aspirations.  ABU0742

The father must always endeavour to educate his son and to acquaint him with the heavenly teachings. He must give him advice and exhort him at all times, teach him praiseworthy conduct and character, enable him to receive training at school and to be instructed in such arts and sciences as are deemed useful and necessary. In brief, let him instil into his mind the virtues and perfections of the world of humanity.  AB05586

In the past, they used to prevent girls from learning to read and write. In fact, these things were considered so sinful that should a woman know how to read or write she would not be desirable for marriage. But afterwards, through the influence of the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, the friends of God devoted most of their time to training their children. Now, they have established schools in Persia for teaching girls.   ABU1807

In childhood it is easy. Whatever a child learns during childhood, it will not forget. There is a proverb in Arabic that says: 'Teaching a child is like carving upon stone. It can never be erased.' A child is like a fresh branch. It is tender. In whatever way you wish you can train it. If you want to keep it straight it can be done. But when it grows up, if you want to straighten it, it cannot be done except through fire.  ABU0155

They should first be taught the reality of religion as a foundation. For instance, in the Catholic Church the child is taught that through some act of the priest the bread and wine of the sacrament become the flesh and blood of Jesus Christ. The mind cannot accept this. The child must be taught that this transformation is symbolical of the truth that Christ is the food from heaven, the eating of which produces eternal life.  ABU0147

It is essential that the fundamentals of knowledge be taught; essential that all should be able to read and write. Wherefore is this new institution most worthy of praise, and its programme to be encouraged. The hope is that other villages will take you for a model, and that in every village where there is a certain number of believers, a school will be founded where the children can study reading, writing, and basic knowledge.  AB04334

O sapling of the garden of divine unity! Though thou art but a small child, yet in the Abha Kingdom thou art great, for thou hast drunk the milk of bounty from the breast of guidance, and been nurtured in the cradle of favors, and art being raised in the embrace of the love of God. I hope that through the power of the knowledge of God thou wilt attain to maturity and growth, and become a spiritual youth and a merciful young man.  AB09555

You must give your daughter a Baha'i education, so that she may become an excellent teacher of the Cause. She must receive a spiritual education. Then she will make extraordinary progress. Religious teachings are essential for the proper development of the mind and the spirit. If religious instruction is not given to the children they will grow heedless and forget moral susceptibilities. They will laugh at all moral obligations.  ABU2583

Regarding the school for the poor, and the formation of a new committee of men and women to organize this momentous undertaking, and the arrangement of examination sessions and the success and prosperity of the children, and likewise the girls' examination committee and the gathering of friends and strangers in these two assemblies in utmost fellowship, love, unity and kindness - all this has brought the greatest joy and delight.  AB08225

Now you must give importance to the education of the children - this is what matters to a father. If he does not pursue all means for the education of his sons and daughters, he will be held accountable before God. Therefore, set aside all other thoughts and strive day and night that these children may be educated in divine training. When you do this, the end result will be spirit and fragrance, joy and prosperity in both worlds.  AB04322

O sapling of the rose-garden of divine unity! Though thou art but a young child, yet in the Abha Kingdom thou art great, for thou hast drunk the milk of bounty from the breast of guidance, and been nurtured in the cradle of favors, and art being reared in the embrace of the love of God. I hope that through the power of the knowledge of God thou wilt attain to maturity and growth, and become a spiritual youth and a merciful young man.  AB09555

But if the masses were educated so that knowledge and learning increased day by day, understanding was broadened, perceptions were refined, morals were rectified and manners reformed, in a word, that progress was made with respect to every degree of perfection, then the occurrence of crime would subside. Experience has shown that crime is less prevalent among civilized peoples--that is, among those who have acquired true civilization.   AB00090

Very good. Nothing can equal them. Examine that method and you will find it matchless. It is my own creation. With a method of that kind, one year's work is equal to five years by other methods. Try it! From the beginning, give the children pencils so that they may write the letters. They will then learn to read at the same time. The way I have pointed out is an exceedingly easy one, and the children will learn their lessons joyously.   ABU0517

For verily, I see not the people possessed of knowledge, rather I see them as the embryo in its mother's womb, finding it difficult to emerge, and seeing itself as though God had created no world for it save that wherein it dwelleth, and God had created no sustenance sweeter than that which nourisheth it. Yet God bringeth it forth without its consent, and day by day it witnesseth the bounty of its Lord and the generosity of its Creator.   BB00097

The people of the East were very ignorant. Baha'u'llah announced that all people must acquire knowledge, that all children whether in the cities or in the villages must go to school, that it is the duty of all to teach and educate the children. Should the father and mother be unable to educate the children and have not the means therefor, then society must take care of them and educate them so that not one single soul remains in ignorance.  ABU0010

It is incumbent upon you to train the children from their earliest babyhood! It is incumbent upon you to beautify their morals! It is incumbent upon you to attend to them under all aspects and circumstances! Inasmuch as God--glorified and exalted is He!--hath ordained mothers as the primary trainers of children and infants; this is a great and important affair and a high and exalted position, and it is not allowable to slacken therein at all.  AB02847

It is incumbent upon you to train the children from their earliest babyhood! It is incumbent upon you to beautify their morals! It is incumbent upon you to attend to them under all aspects and circumstances, inasmuch as God--glorified and exalted is He!--hath ordained mothers to be the primary trainers of children and infants. This is a great and important affair and a high and exalted position, and it is not allowable to slacken therein at all!  AB01141

The primary, the most urgent requirement is the promotion of education. It is inconceivable that any nation should achieve prosperity and success unless this paramount, this fundamental concern is carried forward. The principal reason for the decline and fall of peoples is ignorance. Today the mass of the people are uninformed even as to ordinary affairs, how much less do they grasp the core of the important problems and complex needs of the time.  AB00004

The children of today are the citizens of tomorrow. The mothers of today inculcate so many material ideas in the minds of their children. They tell to the children in the way of encouragement: 'Study hard and thou shalt become the general of an army.' They do not incite them in the acquirement of the ideal virtues. They do not tell them:- 'Strive that thou mayst become a sincere, a just man; that thou mayst serve faithfully the world of humanity.'   ABU0985

The question of training the children and looking after the orphans is extremely important, but most important of all is the education of girl children, for these girls will one day be mothers, and the mother is the first teacher of the child. In whatever way she reareth the child, so will the child become, and the results of that first training will remain with the individual throughout his entire life, and it would be most difficult to alter them.  AB02690

These children must be given a good training from their earliest childhood. They must be given a systematic training which will further their development, in order that they may receive greater insight, so that their spiritual receptivity be broadened. Beginning in childhood they must receive instruction. They cannot be taught through books. Many elementary sciences must be made clear to them in the nursery; they must learn them in play, in amusement.   ABU2054

it is incumbent upon the father and mother to train their children both in good conduct and the study of books; study, that is, to the degree required, so that no child, whether girl or boy, will remain illiterate. Should the father fail in his duty he must be compelled to discharge his responsibility, and should he be unable to comply, let the House of Justice take over the education of the children; in no case is a child to be left without an education.  AB03494

Nourish the children at the breast of the love of God, teach them the praise and attributes of the Intended One, and nurture them in the cradle of the Cause of God until each becomes a luminous child, a divine youth, and a sapling in the garden of the All-Merciful. O handmaiden of God! Keep those children occupied day and night with the mention of God and make them familiar with the holy fragrances, that they may become signs of bounty and lights of guidance.  AB06596

We are establishing an examination assembly where children are being tested in scientific and technical subjects. This is among the gifts of the Blessed Beauty. We hope this will endure. May examination assemblies be established with the utmost order in all countries and cities where the loved ones reside, and in every examination may the Baha'i children demonstrate such prowess as to earn praise from all, nay, receive commendation from the Concourse on High.  ABU2335

from the beginning children must be raised with divine education and ever be reminded of the remembrance of God so that the love of God may become fixed and established in their nature and mix with their milk. Now their mother is unaware, inevitably this must have an effect on them. You must, as much as possible, mention the mention of the All-Merciful in the presence of the children so that the fragrances of the love of God may influence their veins and arteries   AB03355

Teaching young children is like unto gardening in the divine gardens. Children must be made to grow and develop like seedlings beside the stream of knowledge and knowledge and wisdom, and with the utmost kindness must be nurtured like pearls within the shell of truth and meaning, so that through the bounty of arts and sciences they may grow and develop, becoming fruitful trees bearing sweet fruits of the mysteries of existence and adorning the rose garden and meadow.  AB08205

Parents must educate their children and nurture them in the sciences and knowledge. If they show neglect in this matter, they shall be held accountable, condemned and rejected before the watchful Lord. This is an unpardonable sin, for they will have left that helpless child to wander in the wilderness of ignorance, making them wretched, afflicted and tormented. Throughout life, that oppressed child will remain captive to ignorance and pride, unlearned and unconscious.  AB00142

As for the children, We have commanded that they first be educated in the principles and laws of religion, and afterwards in beneficial sciences, in trade adorned with the ornament of trustworthiness, and in such works as would serve to promote His Cause or give rise to that which would draw the servant nearer to his Lord. We beseech God to assist the children of His loved ones and to adorn them with the ornament of understanding, courtesy, trustworthiness and religiosity.  BH04860

No greater service can be imagined, in this day, than the education and training of Baha'i children as it ought to be done, inasmuch as this service is like unto gardening in the Divine orchard. I fervently hope that ye may be graciously aided to befittingly succeed in this endeavour, so that these children may be trained and nurtured according to the divine Teachings, that each one may grow to become even as a fruitful tree, and become conducive to benefits and good results.  AB04839

Our meaning is that the friends must direct their attention toward the education and training of all the children of Persia, so that all of them, having, in the school of true learning, achieved the power of understanding and come to know the inner realities of the universe, will go on to uncover the signs and mysteries of God, and will find themselves illumined by the lights of the knowledge of the Lord, and by His love. This truly is the very best way to educate all peoples.   AB05463

Do thou establish a heavenly school and be thou a teacher in that house of learning. Educate the children in the things of God; and, even as pearls, rear them in the heart of the shell of divine guidance. Strive thou with heart and soul; see to it that the children are raised up to embody the highest perfections of humankind, to such a degree that every one of them will be trained in the use of the mind, in acquiring knowledge, in humility and lowliness, in dignity, in ardour and love.  AB07881

Schools should be opened, not closed. In all civilized countries, every party, nation and religion has schools, and both the government and people of that country provide the utmost assistance. Only in savage lands, like those of the cannibals who in their extreme savagery eat the slain, do they forcefully prevent the spread of education. Closing schools severs the root of humanity, especially the School of the Oneness of Humanity, whose foundation is fellowship, love and unity among all religions.   AB00141

God willing, the children must exert their utmost effort in acquiring knowledge and penmanship. What was sent was seen. We beseech God to grant the capacity that they may perfect the art of calligraphy. Although for some, sufficient penmanship to meet their needs may suffice - and it would be better and more fitting to spend time in beneficial sciences - yet since God, exalted be His glory, hath loved every craft at its most perfect, therefore that which flowed from the Most Exalted Pen was revealed.  BH01117

Man is the supreme Talisman. Lack of a proper education hath, however, deprived him of that which he doth inherently possess. Through a word proceeding out of the mouth of God he was called into being; by one word more he was guided to recognize the Source of his education; by yet another word his station and destiny were safeguarded. The Great Being saith: Regard man as a mine rich in gems of inestimable value. Education can, alone, cause it to reveal its treasures, and enable mankind to benefit therefrom.  BH00140

Training in morals and good conduct is far more important than book learning. A child that is cleanly, agreeable, of good character, well-behaved -- even though he be ignorant -- is preferable to a child that is rude, unwashed, ill-natured, and yet becoming deeply versed in all the sciences and arts. The reason for this is that the child who conducts himself well, even though he be ignorant, is of benefit to others, while an ill-natured, ill-behaved child is corrupted and harmful to others, even though he be learned.  AB00824

They had arranged their time in such a way that these three months of holiday would not be wasted, and during this period they would study and exercise their bodies to such an extent that they all became physically strong. Barefoot and bareheaded in light clothing, they would run through those forests until they became accustomed to conditions such that if they should find themselves in a desert with no civilization, it would make no difference whatsoever to them - it would be as if they were in a city like any other.  ABU0295

As for the children who found no rest in the cradle of contingent existence and hastened to the vast expanse of that other world, they become manifestations of grace and benevolence and recipients of endless favors. For they did not remain in this way station long enough to become responsible for striving and service - they traversed the stages with utmost speed and passed through this realm like a breeze. The fruit and result of their existence is the favors of the All-Loving Lord and the grace of the Promised Beauty.  AB04678

From an early age, encourage children to study every branch of learning and urge them to acquire every art, so that through God's help and grace, the heart of each one may become like a mirror revealing the mysteries of existence and discovering the reality of all things, becoming renowned throughout all regions in sciences, knowledge and crafts. Most assuredly, do not show any negligence or laxity in the education of children. Nurture them with divine characteristics and be confident of the bounty and grace of the Lord God.  AB01427

Utilize every means to make this School a garden of the All-Merciful, from which the lights of learning will cast their beams, and wherein the children, whether Baha'i or other, will be educated to such a degree as to become God's gifts to man, and the pride of the human race. Let them make the greatest progress in the shortest span of time, let them open wide their eyes and uncover the inner realities of all things, become proficient in every art and skill, and learn to comprehend the secrets of all things even as they are   AB03797

According to the statement of philosophers the difference in degree of humankind from lowest to highest is due to education. The proofs they advance are these. The civilization of Europe and America is an evidence and outcome of education, whereas the semicivilized and barbarous peoples of Africa bear witness in their condition that they have been deprived of its advantages. Education makes the ignorant wise, the tyrant just, promotes happiness, strengthens the mind, develops the will and makes fruitless trees of humanity fruitful.  ABU0293

from the age of five they should enter into training, meaning during the days they should be kept in a place where there are teachers, learn manners, and be taught some letters and words and basic reading in the form of play. As is done in some countries where they make letters and words from sweets and give them to the child - for example, they make the shape of alif from candy and its name is alif, and they make ba from candy and its name is ba, and likewise the other letters are given to young children. Children learn letters quickly.   AB04387

The life of men must be productive in some results, otherwise his non-existence is better than existence. As I said before this teaching of the children is a service to the Blessed Perfection. The education of the children is one of the most great services. All these children are mine. If they are educated and illuminated, it is as though my own children are so characterized. They will become the servants and the maid-servants of the Cause of God, the gardeners in the Vineyard of [His] Kingdom and the lights of the assemblage of mankind.   ABU2495

The fathers and especially the mothers must always think how best they should educate their children; not how to fondle and embrace them and thus spoil them. By every means at their disposal they must knead with their growing bodies, souls, minds and spirits the basic principles of sincerity, love, trustfulness, obedience, true democracy and kindness toward all the races, thus, hereafter the world civilization may flow in one mighty current and the children of the future generation may secure the foundation of human solidarity and good-will.  ABU0973

The instruction of these children is even as the work of a loving gardener who tendeth his young plants in the flowering fields of the All-Glorious. There is no doubt that it will yield the desired results; especially is this true of instruction as to Baha'i obligations and Baha'i conduct, for the little children must needs be made aware in their very heart and soul that "Baha'i" is not just a name but a truth. Every child must be trained in the things of the spirit, so that he may embody all the virtues and become a source of glory to the Cause of God.  AB04470

Not only the Europeans look down upon them as members of an inferior race and half-civilized but they (the students) confirm them in this opinion by indulging in questionable pleasures and vices of the European lower society. They hardly do any study. The major part of their lives is spent in the gratification of the appetites, sensuality, dancing halls and theatres, wine drinking, association with undesirable stratum of the community in which they live and leading an insipid, voluptuous and profligate life, ruinous to themselves and the nations alike.   ABU3095

Mothers must educate their children thoroughly from an early age, teach them good character, guide them to human virtues, prevent them from engaging in blameworthy actions, and nurture them in the cradle of Baha'i upbringing. This is so that newborn children may drink the milk of the knowledge of God and love of God from the breast, grow and develop, and learn good conduct, nobility of nature, determination and wisdom in affairs, steadfastness in all things, lofty thoughts, love of progress, high aspiration, chastity and purity. Then they will succeed in whatever they undertake.   AB01105

Today it is well understood that the foundation of children's education and training is laid in those years when they are still too young to enter schools, for it is then that the seeds of thoughts and habits are planted and the foundation of beliefs and characteristics is established in their mental faculties, and they learn manners, conduct, speech, and social interaction. Thus, if during those times they develop with pure and broad thinking, good habits, manners, and praiseworthy morals, their school education will carry them to the highest degrees of progress and advancement.  ABU0084

The mothers and fathers must not leave any stone unturned in the thorough education of their children according to their aptitudes and potentialities. Day and night they must exert themselves. One moment of negligence is culpable. If they have not received a technical and manual education in their childhood, when they grow up they will be poor, miserable, homeless, shelterless, hopeless, walking all nights in the streets, or at the best sleeping in public lodging house and becoming imbued with the sinful and unpardonable quality of beggary and mendicacy, either directly or indirectly.  ABU0106

We must be guided entirely by the intelligence and development of the child, as to how soon we should begin to teach it. Many a child of ten is sufficiently developed and advanced to receive some teaching, and some are ready for it at the age of eight or nine. The great thing that is necessary to teach children is to be characterized with the attributes of God, and to be good. Their hearts and minds must be prepared to receive truth as soon as they are old enough to be taught anything--but children should not be taught facts and details which they may not speak of openly to their fellows and companions.  ABU2199

The first educator of the child is the mother, for the child is like unto a fresh and verdant sapling that is at the beginning of its growth, thou shouldst direct it through education. If thou teaches them heavenly virtues, they will grow straight and balanced. It is clear and evident that the mother is the first educator and the establisher of the upright conduct of her child, therefore, do thou know O thou kind mothers, that in the sight of the Omnipotent One, educating children with Divine virtues is among the greatest of all worships that can be rendered and a greater recompense can not be imagined.  AB02098


"These are blessed children. They are very illumined. In their faces the rays of the Love of God can be seen. I pray in their behalf. His Highness Christ said, these are the children of the Kingdom. Their hearts are like pure mirrors. They are in utmost cleanliness. When the hearts of the grown people become as pure then the Kingdom of God will come on earth. Children in their childhood are beloved because of the purity of their hearts. I Pray for them. You too must pray for their assistance, so that each of them shall become pure plants, and be watered by the downpour of Mercy, and may bring forth blessed fruits."  ABU2725

Through education the ignorant become learned, the cowardly become courageous, the crooked branch becomes straight, the acrid and bitter fruit of the mountains and woods becomes sweet and succulent, and the five-petaled flower puts forth a hundred petals. Through education barbarous nations become civilized and even animals take on human-like manners. Education must be accorded the greatest importance, for just as diseases are highly communicable in the world of bodies, so is character highly communicable in the realm of hearts and spirits. The differences caused by education are enormous and exert a major influence.   AB00117

It behoveth thee to nurture them at the breast of the love of God, and urge them onward to the things of the spirit -- that they may turn their faces unto God; that their ways may conform to the rules of good conduct and their character be second to none; that they make their own all the graces and praiseworthy qualities of humankind; that they acquire a sound knowledge of the various branches of learning -- so that from the very beginning of life they may become spiritual beings, dwellers in the Kingdom, enamoured of the sweet breaths of holiness, and may receive an education religious, spiritual, and of the Heavenly Realm.  AB03824

Regarding the girls' school, you wrote that adequate steps have been taken for its establishment and organization, and that through the efforts of true friends a sum has been collected in the gathering, and that the Illustrator of the Merciful has presented the school supplies. As to the letter of the Minister of Education written to the school principal, the occurrence of this matter should cause increased effort and diligence by the members and teachers of the Tarbiyat School, until it reaches such a state that every wise and knowledgeable person, whether stranger or friend, would desire their children to enter that school.  AB00225

Your child will have extraordinary capacity. It will be a friend of God. Rest assured your child will be assisted by the divine concourse and through this assistance it will exhibit a universal consciousness -- for this cause encompasses the west and the east and children born under these conditions in this day will have the advantages of the universal illumination. Today some children are called prodigies, but the inheritors of this cause will attain to a degree that the others, even though educated in the best schools and with every advantage, know nothing of. Children blessed in this way before they are born are of the new race.  ABU2399

Therefore, children's schools must be perfectly organized, teaching and learning firmly established, and the refinement and improvement of character properly systematized, so that in early childhood divine foundations may be laid in the reality of children and a godly structure raised. Consider this matter of education, refinement, improvement, encouragement and stimulation as most important, for it is the very foundation of divine teaching. God willing, from these divine schools may arise illumined children endowed with the noblest human perfections, who may become the cause of the enlightenment of Iran and indeed the entire world.   AB00251

The school for Baha'i children, these flowers of the garden of inner meanings, is most important. Praise be to God that the friends in Hamadan have succeeded in establishing it. Now the teachers must show forth remarkable effort. As for the youth among the friends, they are saplings in the divine garden. They must certainly strive in their study of teaching, so that they may acquire proficiency in establishing divine proofs and evidences, demonstrating the existence of God and His consummate wisdom, proving divine unity, bringing sufficient and satisfying proof for the reality of revelation, and establishing the truth of all the Prophets and Messengers.  AB01758

They should nourish the children from early childhood in the bosom of the love of God and teach them the ways of the divine religion. They should admonish them day and night, and safeguard them from all pernicious acts by teaching them good behaviour. They should constantly encourage them to read and write and urge them to acquire divine knowledge. They should do all in their power to teach good manners, to rectify their conduct and to sanctify their characters, because the educators of children are mothers. If mothers do not establish good behaviour and proper conduct in the beginning, no matter how much effort and volition are at work later, complete result will not be achieved.  AB01894

That is to say, they should receive divine education, first in heavenly beliefs, faith and certitude, and in general proofs and conclusive evidences of the truth of God's Cause. This should be taught with utmost facility. For instance, each day the teacher should present one divine topic for the children to discuss among themselves. The children themselves will become extremely enthusiastic, and in a short time even a young child will be able to cite verses and traditions as proof. Secondly, they should be taught manners, character, proper conduct, goodly deeds and actions, reading and writing, algebra, arithmetic, geometry, languages, history, geography, and other beneficial sciences.  AB01331

Regarding the young ones of the All-Merciful, you had written asking to which place you should send them for the acquisition of language and sciences. The schools and colleges of Beirut are not very well organized. Perhaps the schools of London and Paris would be preferable, but the children are still young and small and cannot bear separation. Their constitution would be weakened and they would become frightened and distressed. For now it is better that they be educated in their familiar homeland through suitable teachers and educators. After acquiring the fundamentals of language and sciences, if they are sent to famous schools it would do no harm. But now they cannot bear separation and would always be sorrowful and grieved, which is not permissible.   AB04310

Those children who, sheltered by the Blessed Tree, have set foot upon the world, those who are cradled in the Faith and are nurtured at the breast of grace -- such must from the beginning receive spiritual training directly from their mothers. That is, the mother must continually call God to mind and make mention of Him, and tell of His greatness, and instill the fear of Him in the child, and rear the child gently, in the way of tenderness, and in extreme cleanliness. And when the child hath reached the age where he can make distinctions, let him be placed in a Baha'i school, in which at the beginning the Holy Texts are recited and religious concepts are taught. At this school the child is to study reading and writing as well as some fundamentals of the various branches of knowledge, such as can be learned by children.   AB00236

You wrote about the construction of the pilgrim house and also about the numerous meetings held regarding the establishment of the school, which is in accordance with divine counsels. This too is very important, for Baha'i children should be educated in Baha'i schools, not in the schools of others. Moreover, children of other religions should be educated in Baha'i schools with the utmost care, good conduct, and attention. Therefore, thank the friends of God on behalf of this servant for this purpose. If anyone in Hamadan wishes to offer Huquq, it is acceptable, beloved and desirable in the sight of this servant that those rights be spent on establishing schools for children and educational institutions for the divine youth. Children of any religion who are without means should be admitted to this school free of charge and should receive the utmost attention and consideration.   AB00185

I hope thy brother will also study well and become a useful member of the body politic. Now that you are going to America, go with the intention and aim of teaching the Cause of God and spreading the Fragrance of God. Then thy study and worldly affairs will likewise prosper. Think of God, 1st thy thought be of God, and let thy brother be trained according to the highest moral standard. In the tenderest years of their youth the pure hearts of boys and girls must be illumined with the Light of the Love of God. Then when they grow up, most astonishing results will be produced, because the maps of their whole lives would be drawn with the hand of the spiritual Educator. A Baha'i child must be trained according to the moral precepts of Baha'u'llah, he must be taught daily of the Love of God; the history of the Movement must be read to him, the love of humanity must be inculcated into every fiber of his being and the universal principles be explained to him in an easy manner as possible devise.  ABU0623

In the days of Lycurgus they educated their children according to a special law and order. First, they did not give permission for marriage except to healthy boys and girls. And women would engage in difficult work from the beginning of pregnancy so that the child would be nourished with hardship even in the womb. After birth they would wash it with cold water, and if the mother became ill at that time they would give another's milk to the child. They did not protect them from cold, and from age three they would accustom them to much walking. From age eight they would have them spend half the day studying sciences and half the day in games that strengthened their bodies. And they would arrange strengthening foods for them until at age twenty they would possess strong constitutions and be skilled in sciences and arts. This type of education was special to the children of nobles and notables. Certainly the more children are raised with difficulty and hardship from the beginning of life, and the less they are protected from cold and heat, the better.   ABU1531

Our hearts must be like the hearts of the children which are without any deceit or dust. The susceptibilities of the children rule over their wills. If the children do not love some one they do not approach him. Of double-dealing they know nothing. They are not hypocritical. Their outward and inward are one. The children must be well educated. These children are like unto the tender plants. If the plant is trained straight by the skilful gardener it will become straight and if it is trained crookedly it will become crooked. From babyhood, the Love of God must be deposited in their hearts. They will, then, be well educated, they will become illumined, they will be imbued with praiseworthy qualities. I love the children very much, because they are near to the Kingdom of God. ABU0005

The perfection of man lies in educating, to the extent possible, the children of the poor and others, treating them like one's own children and making absolutely no distinction between them. Rather, whoever shows more intelligence should receive more attention and education so they may become a source of perfection and promoter of human virtues. Although educating one's own child is praiseworthy and attracts the bounties of the Forgiving Lord, this is something that everyone naturally desires to do. Therefore, distinction, honor and benevolence toward humanity lie in educating orphaned children and the children of the poor and weak, for such children will always remain grateful and appreciative of their benefactors, and will be more content and thankful, unlike children who consider themselves entitled heirs and see their parents as obligated to educate them - they are not as appreciative nor as eager to learn and grateful to their teachers as other children without guardians become. This condition is frequently observed. Blessed are those holy souls who are confirmed and assisted in rendering this service and who act upon this duty in the world of existence. ABU1684


Therefore, train the children in Baha'i schools in divine characteristics and guide them to purity and holiness, so that each one may develop an angelic nature and be adorned with the attributes and character of a true Baha'i.  AB07846

Then it was asked as to the early training of small children, as for instance if it were allowable to punish children? 'Abdu'l-Baha answered: "If by punishing is meant striking, no, this is very bad for the child. Children should be trained through love."  ABU1147


The great educator of man is woman, for it is the mother who is the first teacher. If the mother be deficient in her attainments, if the teacher be illiterate, how can the pupil be perfect? Therefore the teacher must be well qualified that the pupil may be equally qualified. In the world of humanity the most productive and useful member, after all, is woman, for it is woman who educates man, not the reverse. She rears the children; she cares for the home upon which the body politic is founded; she gives birth to mighty leaders.  ABU0067


Through the educational laws of 'attention' and 'suggestion', encourage and incite the children to characterize themselves with merciful ethics, spiritual qualities, praiseworthy deeds and moral principles. Study well their moods and feelings and through the many pleasurable enterprises direct them into inspiring channels.  ABU0106

The mothers in their homes, the teachers in the schools, the Professors in the colleges, the Presidents in the Universities, must instruct these ideals to the young from the cradle up to the age of manhood.   ABU1650

Second: Service to the Cause of Morality, raising the moral tone of the students, inspiring them with the sublimest ideals of ethical refinement, teaching them altruism, inculcating in their lives the beauty of Holiness and the excellency of virtue and animating them with the excellences and perfections of the religion of God.   ABU1650

Here the very foundation of their education must be laid on the solid rock of purity, cleanliness, sanitary observances and physical examinations. The teaching-rooms must be large and airy and perfect sympathy and comradeship be established between the teachers and the pupils.  ABU0568

The more cleanly the pupils are, the better; they should be immaculate. The school must be located in a place where the air is delicate and pure.  AB00824

