Thou must strive day by day   ABU2980

Seize thy chance, exert every effort, and pay no heed to matters that do not yield any fruit.  AB12855

Strive in your work but trust in God.   AB06354

But effort is needed until thou emigratest from the realm of self and desire and soarest to the sacred precincts of holiness and becomest intimate with the sanctuary of the soul and findest the way to the heart of the Friend. How sweet is this utterance and how excellent must be the deed! If thou hearkenest to the counsel of the Friend and journeyest in the paths of His good-pleasure - keep far from thyself and draw near to thy Lord; cast away what thy self desireth and seek what thy Lord willeth; forget all else and remember His light. BH03210



A third class of men and women to whom nature has bestowed an iron will, an adamant determination, an unwavering strength, a sterling character, a dominating personality, a passionate desire in doing good,- look upon all hindrances and stumbling-blocks as so many ladders or stepping-stones to rise and rise till they have grasped into their mighty hands the scepter of glory.   ABU0833

"Even a little bird perched upon the loftiest branch of a tree on a hill-top commands a view and occupies a height that Kings might envy. He has no troubles or trials. But such freedom and loftiness are of no consequence; while a man who endures trials, and sacrifices ease and comfort to great achievements, is endowed with true independence."   ABU1097

Deprive not thyself of the portion of striving   BB00580

Capacity is in accordance with striving and sincerity.  ABU0819

Therefore, strive thou to become confirmed and assisted.   AB08870

Rest thou not for a moment, seek thou to draw no easeful breath.  AB05247

endure and be patient, and by patience thou wilt attain thy desire  AB04436

increase in hope and strive until the greatest bounty unveils its countenance   AB06879

Strive ye that ye may attain unto that wherefrom the fragrances of eternity are wafted.  BH07129

You must strive. A child does not know, in learning he obtains knowledge. Search for Truth.   ABU2287

Increase also thine efforts, and day by day settle more in the Kingdom, and be nearer to God   AB05717

The thirsty one must run after the water; the fountain will not run after those who are thirsty.  ABU3760

He has called them to striving and seeking that He might bestow upon them that which they desire.  AB09071

Let him cultivate manners and morals for the betterment of souls; indeed he must strive for years.  ABU0263

Man must seek with his soul and strive with his body and strength and tread the path of the free ones  AB07108

Not through idleness do we accomplish anything but through ceaseless, joyful, ever expanding activity.  ABU1931

an effort is needed to gain a portion of this divine bestowal and to receive a share of this great bounty  AB10121

Strive that thou mayest be set ablaze by its effulgence and attain complete attraction through its revelation.  AB09528

In the world of existence, every gift can be attained through effort and endeavor, through seeking and yearning  AB09503

Whether or not men will reach the higher place, under the wings of God, depends upon the efforts which they put forth.  ABU1220

Man's duty is to persevere and struggle, and to hope for God's help. Not for him to sit idly by, proud and unconcerned.  ABU3371

God willing, may they fix their gaze upon lofty stations and strive with the utmost effort and endeavor to attain them.   BH07544

Strive thou that there may appear from thee that from which the sincere ones may inhale the fragrance of the love of God  BH06387

No matter what level a human being reaches, he can still attain higher ones, so he is always making effort and desiring more.  ABU2560

One must not look to the beginning of matters - one must strive in affairs with pure intention and ultimately await the results.  AB03774

Time is a cutting sword and thy Lord's bestowals are a brilliant flash. Seize the opportunity and strive in the Cause of thy Lord  AB12279

Praise God that thou hast spurred on thy charger in this field and, with the mallet of endeavor, carried away the ball of success.  AB06443

Be like men and cast your ball into the field. I hope you will be a man of the field, wielding the polo stick and seizing the ball.  AB04285

When man discovers the Path of the Heavenly Kingdom, he must strive day and night to develop along the line of spiritual Realities.  AB11604

O ye who soar in the atmosphere of divine recognition! Make a mighty effort that ye may attain unto that which hath been mentioned.   BH07273

This is the day of the arena and the time of polo mallet and ball. Make an effort to snatch away this ball of precedence and victory  AB01476

But you too must strive to the extent possible and take hold of the means, for "He provides for whomsoever He wishes without measure."  AB05073

Effort and endeavor are needed, zeal and enthusiasm are required, and in this arena, striving is necessary and hunting is obligatory.   AB02582

O friends! Strive ye to receive your portion from the ocean of divine bounty and take your share from the infinite cornfields of grace.   BH09305

Strive night and day that capacity, worthiness and merit may increase, and advance day by day in the degrees of recognition and certitude   AB04767

God willing, ye must strive with utmost endeavor that perchance ye may attain to the recognition of this most exalted and most high station.  BH08124

The more effort is expended, the more bounty will be received, and the more one ascends, the more progress will be achieved in all directions.  AB03707

One's efforts should be focussed on the object of one's quest. Many people labored for years to explore the North Pole but Admiral Peary reached it.  ABU2727

But one must show forth perseverance and self-devotion and consecrate his thoughts, until the tree of hope may give fruit and produce consequences.   AB04000

Man must rise up with complete effort and striving in every matter so that he may fulfill its conditions and reach the highest degree of perfection.   ABU0822

Let not time slip from thy grasp nor beneficence escape thy hand. Make mighty effort and tremendous endeavor that thou mayest attain to this glorious purpose.  AB03770

desire with your heart and demonstrate humility and lowliness with your soul, show forth the strength of your arms with your body, and strive with all your powers  AB05265

The establishment of the School of Happiness is the cause of happiness, but it requires effort and zeal and with pure intention patience and forbearance are fitting.  AB04434

In the world of existence, every gift can be attained through effort and endeavor, through seeking and yearning, but guidance is a divine bestowal and a heavenly gift.  AB09503

Once his effort is directed in the proper channel if he does not succeed today he will succeed tomorrow. Effort in itself is one of the noblest traits of human character.  ABU2961

God has ordained stations for His loved ones in all ranks and conditions, and has called them to striving and seeking that He might bestow upon them that which they desire  AB09071

So now you must strive until the result is achieved and the fruit obtained and the lamp of eternal life is kindled and the gifts of the Lord of the Kingdom become manifest   AB01873

The Blessed Beauty often remarked: 'There are four qualities which I love to see manifested in people: fourth, the ability to carry a task, once begun, through to its end.'  ABU3292

Man must drink from every fountain. His Holiness Baha'u'llah says: 'Your thirst must be so great that if you quaff the seven seas of the world you may yet be thirsty and dry.'  ABU3117

A person must be rapid in motion and not slow and tortoise-like. When a soul is severed and quick in attending to all his duties, his station is great in the Kingdom of Abha.   ABU2939

"Thus he who is endowed with any degree of capacity and ability must constantly exert himself in order to increase them, or he will see the beginning of failure and decadence."   ABU1474

Show ye an effort! Work unceasingly! Labor diligently;--so that the Everlasting Bounty be realized, Eternal Life be destined, and the nostrils be perfumed with the Holy Fragrances!  AB03886

Therefore night and day we must strive and endeavor that perchance in gratitude for the favors of the one true God we may draw breath and make the world a companion to this abundant grace.   AB02557

In this age of grace, make a boundless effort and endeavor, that thou mayest become sanctified above the signs of past ages and become a brilliant moon among the renowned ones of the age of unity.   AB07538

Let them not seek rest even for a single moment nor procrastinate for a second. Let them feed the flame of search through their midnight hours and with the sunrise let their faces shine with radiance.  AB03849

Today striving is necessary, and likewise meditation on the signs in the horizons and within yourselves. His exalted Word: "And those who strive in Our path, We shall assuredly guide them to Our ways."   BH05704

While there is still oil in thy lamp, therefore, while there is yet some strength left in thy body, make thou a mighty effort that thy faith may burn brightly within the globe of divine grace and bounty.   AB01601

Striving meaneth this, that ye should live and move according to the divine counsels and admonitions and be filled with zeal and fervour, that ye should seek no rest and be engaged at all times in service.  AB04003

Eschew all feebleness and weakness and succumb to weariness or lassitude. Strive with all thy determination so that thou mayest be aided and confirmed day by day, so that thou mayest grow nearer to the sacred Threshold.   AB04288

Yes, striving and endeavor, effort and exertion are necessary and obligatory, while negligence and laxity are blameworthy and reproachable. Indeed, one must not be idle for a moment day and night, nor let a minute slip away.   AB03357

All the difficulties and hardships which they endured! How many ships were wrecked, how many souls were lost, how much property was destroyed until they could discover the North Pole! Finally they found it, and it was nothing.   ABU1509

In this court we must be humble and meek, active and progressive, wide-awake and thoughtful, true and sincere, noble and good, straightforward and zealous. This is the outcome of life! This is the result of ceaseless endeavour!   ABU2526

In acquiring the attributes and characteristics of spiritual ones, show forth a manly resolve, that thou mayest attain to the station where "I shall make all my remembrances and prayers but a single prayer, and my condition in Thy service eternal."   AB08835

Therefore look at the degrees of existence - whatever you observe of the gifts of the Loving Lord, seek it with heart and soul and run in the path of its pursuit until you become a center of the merciful emanations and the pole of the circle of divine guidance.  AB05756

It is not sufficient only to distinguish the way of the Kingdom, only to discover the heavenly way: you must travel upon it until the end is reached. For example, that a man discovers the way to America is not sufficient. He must travel in it that he may reach that country.  ABU0499

Consequently we must strive in order to obtain the capability - so that this divine Grace may have its effect upon us and may enrich us with its inexhaustible favours - We must make an effort - so that when thirsty we may drink with utmost relish and enjoyment this water of life.  ABU0287

Know thou that this effort was like the sowing of a seed that shall yield a bountiful harvest. As mentioned in the Qur'an: like a grain which groweth seven ears, in every ear a hundred grains - so shall it be. Ere long, praiseworthy results and acceptable effects of this deed shall become evident and manifest.  AB06146

First must we meditate upon it and consider the hardships, trials, and calamities, then must we resolve and commence our journey. We witness how people sacrifice their wealth and much else to discover the North Pole, with great devotion. How much greater must our devotion be in seeking the Pole of the Kingdom!   ABU0506

When a pupil enters the school first, he will not understand a thing at all, but when he persists in his studies, he will learn his first lessons. Even so it is with the Kingdom of God. When a person enters, when he concentrates his thought and is steadfast, he will learn good lessons, very good lessons indeed.   ABU2795

It requires determination - let us see what their determination will accomplish. It requires enthusiasm - this is the essential thing. When one has enthusiasm, wonders are wrought. In whatever matter one develops enthusiasm, in that thing one acquires proficiency. But without enthusiasm nothing is achieved; it brings weariness.  ABU2132

How long shall we maintain silence and muteness? How long shall we remain quiet and forgotten? The bright candle - the moths behind the veil are withered and distressed. It is time to surge like the ocean and soar to the Pleiades. If we seek to ascend to the highest horizon we must spread our wings, and if we wish to dive into the ocean's depths we must learn to swim.  AB03550

In this Cause, he who is active and who makes an effort will always meet with success. In worldly matters how often we see a man work hard for a lifetime and never achieve success. But the worker in the cause of God is like a gardener. The more attention he gives his garden, the more fruit will reward his efforts, or, like the traveler who has a great goal before him, no matter how hard the road, if he only keep on walking and is not turned aside by discouragements, he is sure, eventually, to reach his goal.  ABU2868

A few souls, unaware of the power latent in human endeavor, consider this matter as highly impracticable, nay even beyond the scope of man's utmost efforts. Such is not the case, however. On the contrary, thanks to the unfailing grace of God, the loving-kindness of His favored ones, the unrivaled endeavors of wise and capable souls, and the thoughts and ideas of the peerless leaders of this age, nothing whatsoever can be regarded as unattainable. Endeavor, ceaseless endeavor, is required. Nothing short of an indomitable determination can possibly achieve it.  AB07838
