The remaining eight should elect one.   ABU1111

"consult with the friends so that the location is determined by majority vote"   AB04336

But where thousands are considering these questions, we have more essential questions.   ABU3362

Whatever the Convention decides by majority vote is acceptable and shall be carried out.   AB06031

when the House of Justice is established, all its members will be elected by universal suffrage  AB11384

The elected members must be religious persons, God-fearing, high-minded and followers of the law.  ABU3100

As for the matter of election, it pertains to the general vote, that they may elect with complete freedom  AB04428

The rules for election are those which are customary in that country. The period of election is five years.   AB04626

Election is only permissible when its reality becomes clear and it occurs with the permission and authorization of the government.   AB02819

The text discusses election procedures, stating "every fifty or hundred people electing one person and a majority vote being implemented."  AB09088

The election should be carried out with sincerity and good will. People should be elected who when united together will give the most harmony.   ABU3220

The text discusses issues around Baha'i elections, including disputes over election methods and temporary suspension of elections to restore unity.  AB09088

The text outlines a specific election process involving 81 distinguished believers divided into groups of nine, with each group electing one person  AB01843

Elections take place in different provinces and the House of Justice is formed, and they will determine the center according to their own judgment.   ABU3290

In the Spiritual Assembly members can be from both men and women - indeed this is better so that complete connection is achieved between men and women.  AB05229

Consider how many election meetings are held in the world, how many great assemblies are established - no outcry, no clamor, no conflict and no disputation.  AB01400

Now since formation of the Universal House of Justice is not yet possible, it was decided that spiritual assemblies in America would renew their elections every five years.  AB00696

It was observed that this commotion in Tehran would not subside unless the election was not renewed at this time. Therefore, the continuation of the previous body was cabled.  AB00670

You have written regarding the election of delegates from among the Oriental Bahais. The season for this work has not yet come. God willing, in its opportune time they will be sent.   AB05544

"They would be elected similar to the plan adopted in electing members of Congress in the United States, each country electing a representative, the same as each state does in the union."  ABU1572

The text discusses the Convention system as similar to the House of Justice: "The Convention is similar to the House of Justice to a certain extent. Its decision and laws must be carried out."   ABU3081

Question: Is the method they use in Persia of appointing a committee of selection which appoints the members of the House of Spirituality suitable for America? Abdul-Baha: "Yes, you should do the same."   ABU3220

"Like this - first all the members must choose a committee of certain persons from among themselves and then this committee should choose the Spiritual House." The duration of it is better to be four years."   ABU3239

the auxiliaries must also be by election of the community, meaning those who receive the majority of votes after the elected members should, with the knowledge of the Spiritual Assembly, be designated as auxiliaries   AB05129

In the election of the members of the House of Spirituality no political tactics should enter. They must be free from self nor anxious to further their own personal ambitions. The people must be free and untrammelled to choose whomsoever they want.   ABU1582

At present, wisdom and prudence do not permit the implementation of election rules, as this would cause commotion and sedition. But when the time comes and circumstances permit, the rules and laws of election must certainly be implemented with complete freedom  AB02837

Every group, that is every hundred or fifty people, should elect one person, whoever they wish, and these elected individuals will elect the members of the Spiritual Assembly. Whether in the first election or the second election, they should consider the majority.   AB06481

The president must be a man who does not insistently seek the presidency. He should be a person free from all thoughts of name and rank; rather, he should say, 'I am unworthy and incapable of this position and cannot bear this great burden.' Such persons deserve the presidency.  ABU2720

In the city the mass of the people elect a delegation or a committee and this committee appoints or elects the members of the local House of Justice. The members of the local Houses of Justice convene at some given place and elect directly the members of the national House of Justice   ABU0392

Should you observe that through a general election the Spiritual Assembly will gain increased influence and no one will have cause for objection or hesitation, and all will acknowledge the decisions of the Spiritual Assembly, in such case a general election would be better and more fitting.  AB08982

I asked if at time of an election many were brought in who seldom attend the meetings, in order to cast their votes, what shall we do? He answered, The members of the spiritual assembly must be well known and firm Baha'is. Those souls who come once in a while to the meetings are not Baha'is.   ABU3191

In a city where the friends of God are few in number, every twenty, thirty, forty or fifty people, depending on whether there are fewer or more friends, should elect one person. These elected individuals are representatives of all and by proxy from all souls should elect the Spiritual Assembly.  AB05929

It is evident that it is better if the people elect the noble ones among them, and then these elect the president of the republic. That is to say, the president should be the elect of the elect, because the public in general are not as well informed as they should be in regard to political affairs.  ABU0001

The nations will choose directly the International House of Justice and everything will be in its hands. For instance, Syria will have a House of justice. The people will elect it. Then this House of Justice of Syria [as a state under the Turkish Empire] will elect the House of Justice of Constantinople. Then Constantinople, London, Paris, Washington and so on will elect the International House of Justice.   ABU0494

Regarding the matter of elections: if after being elected a member commits an evident wrong that is proven in court, they are removed. Without this, even if they lack capability, it is not possible [to remove them]. However, in the next election they can be dropped. In this case another person is elected in their place. If an elected member resigns their membership, they are free to do so and this resignation is acceptable.   AB07328

Then they should observe which person received the majority of votes from these fifty - that person is the elected one. Those elected should then choose the members of the Spiritual Assembly. Observe how in the West, what great assemblies are elected that are of utmost importance - no clamor, no outcry, no discord, no dispute. Yet now in the election of one Spiritual Assembly, the loved ones of God show such discord, and one or two persons become the cause of such differences.  AB05741

The friends elect a committee of, say, thirty-eight as a selection committee, and this committee appoints the spiritual assembly. Abdul Baha says that in the West both men and women should associate in the same assembly. Members are elected for periods of two and three years. All retire together at the end of the period of office and a new spiritual assembly is appointed in the same manner. Abdul Baha says that this method of election which is used in Persia should also be used in the West.   ABU0649

In America and Europe, even in Egypt, when the matter of elections arose, there was absolutely no clamor, no outcry, no discord, no conflict. They referred to the votes, and the citizens of the country, each person in complete tranquility, designated someone. Then whoever had the majority became the representative of the others, and they elected the members of parliament in utmost calm, without any noise or clamor. When it was finished, it became known through the newspapers that the election had taken place.  AB09517

First, that the election, in the presence of discord, will not take place as it should, and second, it will become a cause of embarrassment for the divine friends before other governments, nations and parties of Iran. However, the election of the friends is good if it takes place in a state of calm and dignity, without creating commotion. Observe how the Parsees conduct their elections - no clamor, no tumult, no noise, no outcry - in perfect peace and composure. If it is done in this manner it is acceptable; otherwise it will cause the attack of other groups and result in calumny, slander, hatred and enmity of the thoughtless ones.  AB12183

Since the election of a general Spiritual Assembly is not possible or feasible at present, there is no choice now but to make do. To the extent possible, an assembly must be arranged that will attend to necessary matters and all the friends will accept its decisions wholeheartedly. This is difficult without authority, and until authority is established nothing will be accomplished and time will be wasted. Therefore it appears that the Hands of the Cause, upon them be the Most Glorious Glory of God, and several wise and unbiased friends should gather and name eighty-one distinguished believers. Then divide those souls into groups of nine. Each group of nine should gradually gather in a location and elect one person. Then those nine elected ones should join with the Hands of the Cause to establish a Spiritual Assembly, and all the friends should obey and submit to that Assembly and serve it and strive to uphold its authority. No one should have the ability to utter a word of objection. 'Abdu'l-Baha will also strive with heart and soul to uphold that Assembly's authority. Since the Hands of the Cause of God attained this honor in the blessed days, therefore showing them consideration and respect is obligatory upon all. Thus in that Spiritual Assembly, which is a temporary body until the prescribed assembly is formed, the Hands of the Cause of God are permanent members. Without this approach, the necessary authority will not be achieved. And in this period all matters must be accomplished through willing acceptance, not through command and independence. The members of the Spiritual Assembly are highly respected by 'Abdu'l-Baha, to such a degree that I will not deviate from their opinion, will confirm all their decisions, and will not give my own opinion. This is the reality of the situation and what the time requires. AB01843
