the atom is indestructible and subject to coursing and journeyings throughout interminable space  ABU1593

Man is indestructible. The man you see before your eyes has travelled through all the worlds of existence.  ABU1774

Not one atom is annihilated nor the storehouse of energy is ever exhausted in the production of such multitudes of beings.   ABU0441

The world of elements cannot be annihilated, because pure existence cannot be annihilated; and what we observe are but transformative modifications in the composition of the essence. Complete annihilation cannot take place.  ABU0766

For instance, the body of man being the resultant factor of the composition of these atoms, when this body becomes the subject of decomposition we call that death, but those atoms of which the body of man was composed, being simple and primordial, are indestructible.   ABU0591

When we examine the natural world, we see that every being is composed of diverse elements, so that from the mingling of these elements this creature has come into existence while another has passed away. This transition of the elements is evident and cannot be denied.   ABU0078

The simple elements always retain their nature as simple elements. So, if iron be alloyed with some other metal, it will display qualities which it did not have before; but on the dissolution of the alloy it will return to its original state and display the ordinary qualities of the metal.  ABU1139

Therefore, within all beings exist the mysteries of all beings. Behold what unity exists! There is no unity greater than this, and this is from divine bounties that He has established such connection, such unity, and such bounty between beings. He has not deprived any thing -- He has given every particle a share of every bounty. Thus for beings there is never annihilation -- there is only transfer from one rank to another. For example, when man dies his elements are not annihilated; those single elements transfer to another rank. Thus there is no annihilation for existence -- existence is ever-living. Everything is alive, living, existent. The ultimate truth is that it transfers from one station to another, and until beings circulate through all ranks, perfection is not attained.  ABU0151


It is a scientific fact that the elements which make up the body of man are indestructible. They will return again to the animal and mineral kingdoms. The animal is eaten again by man and it is transformed into the body of man. This is an endless circle.  ABU0234

As for created things, their life consists in composition and their death in decomposition. But matter and the universal elements cannot be entirely destroyed and annihilated. No, their annihilation is merely transformation. For instance, when man dies his body becomes dust, but it does not become absolute non-existence: it retains a mineral existence, but a transformation has taken place and that composition has been subjected to decomposition.  AB00876
