
Know this- that the Revelation of Baha'u'llah is the Word of God. There will not be a home which does not contain a believer. Look not at the present. Turn your vision upon the future. All the books written concerning the History of this Revelation number about fifty volumes. ABU3364

From all parts of the world host after host enter under its Radiance.  ABU1724

It is certain that a group will arise with utmost love and enter the Kingdom of God.  AB04047

Soon shall the spiritual armies and their mighty onslaught seize the pillars of the world.  AB09623

"And thou didst see men entering the religion of God in troops" must become clear and evident   AB02333

people are entering into it in troops throughout all regions - east and west, south and north.   AB04160

Today, praise be to God, "And thou seest men entering the religion of God in troops" has been fulfilled.   AB11632

This heavenly gathering will grow day by day, the intoxicated friends will increase in rapture and ecstasy  AB04446

Soon the reality of "thou shalt see men enter into the religion of God in troops" will be fulfilled in Iran.  AB01429

Soon most of the people of the world will become enkindled, for there has not been and is not any escape for anyone.   BH01798

Then you will observe how humanity will enter, group after group, beneath the canopy of the unity of the human world.  AB08065

Soon you will observe that the blessed verse "and they will enter the religion of God in troops" has been fulfilled.   AB05084

Each person must become the intimate companion of someone, guiding them through divine counsels, heavenly proofs, godly arguments, the way and conduct of those near to the Divine Court, spiritual qualities and pure and goodly deeds. If this is carried out, but a brief time will pass before souls will fly to the heights of guidance in successive waves. AB01310

This most powerful of dispensations will encompass all the earth, and beneath its banner will all peoples gather and be sheltered together.   AB01720

Grieve thou not, for soon there shall descend from the clouds of grace that which shall cause people to enter into the religion of God in troops.   BH02151

Soon the victory of the Kingdom will appear beyond all expectation, and "thou shalt see men enter into the religion of God in troops" will be fulfilled.  AB09671

As for others, a group will gradually enter under the shelter of the Kingdom but only later. But the glory is in souls turning toward [the Faith] today.   AB03101

Praise be to God, the sun of joy has risen and the lamp of gladness shines and the morn of truth has dawned and "they enter the religion of God in troops."  AB01414

Though they are few in number, they shall soon become many. The power of the Covenant shall give them a brimming cup and shall make them taste of the sealed wine  AB06699

Its lustre, radiance and effulgence shall appear in future centuries when the signs of God will be spread abroad and the Word of God will encompass the hearts of all the peoples of the earth.   AB05887

The cries of supplication and invocation will be raised to the Highest Kingdom therefrom and, verily, the people will enter into the Religion of God by troops, with great enthusiasm and attraction.  AB00438


Strive that the day when "people shall enter into the religion of God in troops" may be manifested in our time. Otherwise it will be regret upon regret that others after us will succeed in rendering this service while we remain deprived   AB02470

Eleven persons in the time of Christ became believers and were assured - now see what is happening: millions of bells ring out "O Christ! O Christ!" After a short time you will hear that from all regions the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" is raised.   AB03937

Although this call which thou hast raised hath not many hearers in those regions at present, yet know thou of a certainty that ere long multitudes will respond to thy call with yea, and will chant this anthem with the most delightful melody and song, bringing the world to a state of joy and gladness.  AB09391

But, by God besides Whom there is no other God, if the friends of God had acted according to what was revealed in just one of the Tablets of the Ancient Beauty, may His Most Great Mention be exalted, by now all who are on earth would have attained to the bounty of faith and the earth would have become the supreme paradise.  ABU2206

Know thou that the doors of the Kingdom are being opened to the East and West. Verily, the people have neglected the mention of their Lord after expecting Him for centuries and ages! However, those whose consciences are pure and whose hearts are sanctified hasten toward Him and enter therein through every door with radiant faces and with hearts and spirits rejoicing.  AB09015

