

His Holiness the Messenger in the Battle of Badr struck off the heads of the opposers and was victorious. The Prince of Martyrs in Karbala had his body torn to pieces, yet was still victorious.   ABU2444

When Mohamad travelled with his uncle Abou Talib, as far as Bostra and met the Christian Monk Sergius, or as the Mohamadan name him Boheira, he was only eleven years old and stayed one night in the monastery.   ABU0409

This statement was the first breach in Islam and was the saying of the second Caliph who said "The Book of God is sufficient for us," as mentioned in Bukhari which is considered an authentic book of hadith by the Sunnis  AB01009

The blessed utterances about the historical accounts from the time of Islam were very detailed, including among them the story of Hajjaj the Oppressor and the burning of the minister's tent for the organization of the army.   ABU2565

On the occasion of the farewell pilgrimage at Ghadir-i-Khum, situated between Mecca and Medina, the Apostle of God seized 'Ali's sash and, raising him up, said: O people! Whoever hath Me as his Lord, let this 'Ali be his Lord.  AB08296

Even the hateful company of the oppressors in the desert of Karbila, showed an outward semblance of devotion to Him, but although they made mention of Him with words yet in reality they were insincere, ill-intentioned, and deceitful.   AB03851

At one time during His migration journey, while surrounded by enemies who were exerting their utmost in reducing the believers and in this regard were succeeding, the Prophet Muhammad ordered a moat to be dug so they could hide therein.   ABU1995

Hajjaj had a wife who was a source of torment to him. One day, while looking in the mirror, he said, "O God, make my character as beautiful as You have made my creation." His wife cried out, "Look at this one who fabricates against God!"  ABU0479

In the days of the Prophet, there was one named Nu'man who was quite mischievous, and one named Mu'ayth who was dark of countenance. The Prince of the Faithful was engaged in battle with one of the tribes and appointed Mu'ayth as storekeeper.   ABU0884

Thirty-six persons sat upon the throne of the caliphate, and all were bound to name and fame, yet of none of them does any trace or sign remain. But because Bahlul was known as the madman of God, they are still building domes and shrines in his honor.   ABU2742

At one time, the holy divine fragrances perfumed that land and region, and the call of the Beauty of Muhammad was raised from all sides and directions of the Hijaz, and that Orb of Guidance had risen from that Batha horizon, and heavenly sustenance was being sent down.  AB01008

The Messenger of God was in Mecca for thirteen years, and He was constantly subjected to torment and hardship. His opponents persecuted Him, murdered and plundered His companions - some fled and some were taken captive. They sought to kill the Messenger Himself, and so He emigrated.  ABU2230


At the time of Muhammad, He sanctioned war for the preservation of the lives of His followers. The laws of individual justice were confused and preliminary in the souls of men. Therefore, the law of general justice of the community was revealed by this Prophet. He commanded His followers to carry the Religion of God by the sword.  ABU2396

At the time of Muhammad's migration to Medina under divine protection, Abu Bakr, was with Him. He said to Abu Bakr, 'Be not afraid, God is with us.' These very words became afterwards the cause of his succession to the Caliphate because the word 'with us' included him also. Many proofs and arguments based on these words have been advanced.  ABU2564

Notwithstanding that the Jews had made a pact with the Prophet Muhammad, a pact which guaranteed the protection of the Jews so long as they remained faithful to it, they formed an alliance nonetheless with the tribes of Quraysh and arrayed themselves against Islam. This development forced the Prophet Muhammad and His companions to dig a trench, where they remained confined for some time.  ABU3692


When in March 629 the Prophet made the well-known pilgrimage from Medina to Mecca at the head of two thousand camel-riders, all devoted Muslims, the Prophet was asked by His servant how he should safely care for El-Kaswa, the famous camel of Muhammad, the Lord Muhammad answered him: 'First give it to drink and eat, then tie it up, and afterwards commend it to the protection of God the Most High.'  ABU0414


Before the Messenger of God, the Arab people were barbaric, more ignorant than animals. The Arabian Peninsula was immersed in deep darkness. But the dawn of divine grace broke and the lights of the Sun of Truth shone upon the Arabian desert. That land and region became illumined. In a short time, they reached the highest degrees of progress, to such an extent that the Arabs became the exemplars of all nations  ABU3761

In the battle of Khandag the enemies hordes rushed forward and besieged the city Medina. Mohamad and his companions were in the town and had no other recourse but to defend it. The prophet's uncle being amongst the enemies cut all the ways of communication and the innocent inhabitants were on the verge of starvation. All the foodstuffs were consumed and the animals killed to appease the appetite of the people.   ABU0582

In the time of His Holiness, the prophet (Mohammed) there were two tribes - Ous and Khazraj. These tribes were in the utmost hostility and hatred. For several centuries they were at war. As soon as they would meet they would kill one another, whether in villages, towns or cities. It was impossible for one of the tribes of Ous to meet one of the tribe of Khazraj, without killing him. Then these two tribes became believers and became as brothers.  ABU0470

In the days of the Prophet--may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him--despite the spread of power in Yathrib, in a single day a great multitude from the Bani Zafar tribe, with their families and children, apostatized and joined the enemy. In the Battle of the Confederates, on the Day of the Trench, when affliction and severe hunger intensified, the companions of the Prophet--who numbered close to six or seven hundred--three hundred showed hypocrisy.  AB01753

They razed to dust the site of martyrdom in Karbila and Najaf, then plowed it under. For nearly eighty years they plowed and planted crops so that no trace would remain. After eighty years, people came and said: "Yes, it was here." They built up that site of martyrdom. This was in the time of the Umayyads. Then when the Abbasids came, they built it up. In the time of Mutawakkil they destroyed it again and cultivated crops for nearly two hundred years.   ABU2587

Division first appeared in the house of the Prophet. When the Messenger of God [Muhammad] was ill and His companions gathered about His deathbed, He asked for a pen and paper to write His Will. `Umar said, 'He is delirious.' His Holiness `Ali responded, 'Sickness and fever have no effect on the condition of the Prophets; they are always inspired. Present Him with writing materials and see what guidance He gives.' `Umar responded, 'The Book of God is sufficient unto us.'  BHU0067

After the conquest of Mecca, the Battle of Hunayn, which is between Mecca and Ta'if, took place. After the victory, much wealth was gathered before His Holiness, including camels, sheep, and other things. His Holiness bestowed upon the nobles of Mecca, such as Abu Sufyan and others, one hundred camels each, and to those below them, forty each. Someone remarked, "I do not see you acting justly." The Messenger became angry and said, "If justice is not with me, then with whom is it?"   BH00346

In the year 622 A.D. Mohamad, after several years of preaching and teaching his Islamic doctrines in his own native city Mecca and receiving all manner of rebuffs and persecutions, he decided to migrate to Medina. From that memorable year began the Arabian Calendar and it is named by them the year of Hegira or Migration. But another remarkable migration took place in the fifth year of the mission of Mohamad, not by himself but by his persecuted disciples, not to Medina but to Abyssinia.  ABU0312

These words caused four thousand memorizers of the Qur'an, the most prominent companions of 'Ali, to turn into the wretched rabble of the Seceders. These words scattered the ranks of the believers and divided the lines of the faithful. These words changed the affection of the lovers of the Muhammadan Beauty into swords and spears, into injury and enmity. These words became a dagger of hatred and, in the land of Taff, lacerated the throat of that luminous beauty, staining the earth with his blessed blood. These words brought about that most great disaster and most profound disgrace on the plain of Karbila.  AB00005

It is recorded in the books that one day Abu-Jahl so tightly gripped the throat of His Holiness in the House of Ka'bih that He was near to yielding up His spirit. At that moment Hamzih, the uncle of His Holiness, was returning from a hunt with bow in hand. He rushed upon Abu-Jahl and saved His Holiness from the torment of that wretched one. Then Abu-Jahl said, Have you too become a follower of this person? Until that time Hamzih was not a believer, but his sense of honor was aroused and he replied, Yes, I too have become His follower. This very act of protection caused him to be blessed with the light of faith.  AB00226

Today I read in history about Ibn Mashtub in Diyar Bakr, who was among the most fortunate of early Muslim kings, blessed with every means of success. Throughout his reign, no event occurred that caused him distress. His domains were in utmost security and peace. He waged several battles against the Crusaders and was victorious in all encounters. By chance, he did not suffer headaches for many years, and he was also highly favored by the Caliph. At that time, when the surrounding kings were under the shadow of the Abbasid Caliphs, he was so close to the Caliph that the latter dismissed his own vizier, saying "Go be Ibn Mashtub's vizier instead."   ABU0955

He who was well-grounded in knowledge came to be dismissed and disregarded, while obscure and undistinguished individuals such as Abu- Hurayrih and Abu-Sha'yun were honoured and regarded with favour. He who was the object of the invocation O Lord my God! Befriend his friends and battle his foes was disparaged and confined to his house, while the one who had inspired the words God curseth the She-Camel, and its rider, and its guide became a beloved friend. He who had received the accolade of No valiant hero is there save 'Ali, and no blade save His two-edged sword! became a wanderer through hill and hollow, and the accursed tree alluded to in the Qur'an was established upon the throne of the Caliphate and the seat of the Sultanate.  AB00005

The opponents of [His] Cause came from such tribes as Bani Kananih, 'Atfan, Nazarih, Khazraj and Qurrayish. When His Holiness was striking the boulder with His staff, some of the munafiqin were remarking to their lukewarm friends [among the believers], "Out of our fear, not a sign of our courage, we wet ourselves. Therefore, how can He speak so boldly?" Which is why the following verse has been revealed, "God shall mock them, and keep them long in their rebellion, wandering in perplexity." In this battle the number of defenders were seven hundred, of which nearly three hundred were either of the munafiqin or lukewarm in their convictions. But when they reached the Ayvan-i Kasraw and saw the divine prophecies fulfilled, they were all ashamed and remorseful.   ABU1493

The son of 'Affan was assassinated and the son of the Eater of Livers anointed. The battle of the Camel was engaged, and deceit and duplicity were introduced. The Red-hued One rode upon the gray she-camel, spurred on in the field of rebellion, and sought to avenge 'Uthman's blood. Mu'aviyih reared his head from his corner and shed a torrent of tears in grieving his loss. He ascended the pulpit, brandished the severed finger of the Prophet's daughter and 'Uthman's blood-stained shirt, and with tearful eyes cried out: Behold the bloodied garment of 'Uthman! Behold the severed finger of that light of the Apostle's eyes! Woe to us! Woe to our faith! Woe to our religion! The assemblage wept and wailed in turn, and arose in opposition to 'Ali. The darksome dust of the Night of Clangour reached the highest heaven and the bodies of thousands of the chosen companions of God's Apostle lay dead in blood and gore.  AB00005




This cleric always had on his tongue "Oh, would that I had been with you to attain a mighty triumph!" But when he found himself on the plain of Karbala in the field of tribulation under siege, he took his horse and sword and fled.  ABU1252


In my childhood, this wronged one read in a book by Mulla Baqir Majlisi about the raid on the Banu Qurayzah. From that moment I was distressed and full of sorrow, to the extent that my pen cannot express it -- even though what happened was the decree of God, and its intent was only to foil oppressors.  BH02329

Seven hundred of those covenant-breaking enemies were massacred in the span of a single day. If this massacre had not taken place, the Jews would have made pacts with like-minded tribes once again - bending every effort to lay axe to the root of Islam, and rendering its firm and secure establishment a most difficult prospect.  ABU3692

This concerned the Battle of Banu Qurayza. After the Battle of the Trench, Gabriel descended and said, "O Messenger of God! The Lord of great command orders you and your companions to pray the afternoon prayer at Banu Qurayza." The Prophet commanded his companions as ordered and departed with them to Banu Qurayza. When they arrived, God's forces surrounded them and terror seized their hearts.   BH00346

Furthermore, consider what transpired with the Banu Nadir and Banu Qurayzah, and likewise in the fortresses around Medina. By His command, Ali and Zubayr beheaded nine hundred souls in two days, and they either took possession of that people's belongings or sent them to other regions and sold them. They dealt similarly with other tribes in ways I prefer not to mention. Open thine eyes and recognize the truth. Whatever ye say has been said before by the idolaters. In any case, this Wronged One's purpose is to remove hatred, malice, strife and contention from the world.  BH00126
