

"It has been objected by some that woman is not equally capable with man and that she is deficient by creation. This is pure imagination. The difference in capability between man and woman is due entirely to opportunity and education."  ABU0098

It must be admitted that in the past woman has not had the same educational opportunities that man has received, but when she is given equal advantages undoubtedly she will become his peer in knowledge and attainments. Brain power is not dependent upon the size of the skull or upon its contents, but upon the character of the convolutions of the brain. The brilliancy of electric light is not dependent upon the lamp, but upon the character of the electric energy.  ABU0067

In the world of existence there is nothing so important as the investigation of reality, for the illumination of mankind is dependent upon the Sun of Reality. People are divided into two classes concerning this question. Some believe that man is the greater and preferable member of the body politic, that he is created with certain superior virtues, and that woman, however great may be her attainment, can never reach man's level, because she is not endowed with equal faculties. At present the majority is of this class. The other class, now representing the minority, but which ere long may become the majority, is of the opinion that perfect equality already exists.  ABU0067

Until woman and man recognize and realize equality, social and political progress here or anywhere will not be possible. For the world of humanity consists of two parts or members: one is woman; the other is man. Until these two members are equal in strength, the oneness of humanity cannot be established, and the happiness and felicity of mankind will not be a reality.   ABU0146

In this cycle females have the station of males, rather in the West women have achieved superiority over men.   AB06277

Throughout the kingdoms of living organisms there is sex differentiation in function, but no preference or distinction is made in favor of either male or female. In the animal kingdom individual sex exists, but rights are equal and without distinction. Likewise, in the plane or kingdom of the vegetable sex appears, but equality of function and right is evident.  ABU0153


Although in the Dispensation of the Furqan (Qur'an) women were considered the weaker sex and received few rights - "Men are the protectors and maintainers of women" was revealed and "To the male the equivalent of the portion of two females" was sent down - yet the people of the Furqan went beyond bounds and exceeded all limits, such that poor women became captives and like purchased slaves. But praise be to God, in this divine Dispensation of justice such a pavilion and tent has been raised at the pole of the horizons that women have become equal sharers and partners with men in all rights, and they have raised the banner of "How many women kept in seclusion and behind veils have surpassed men!" In the field of tests they have seized the ball of precedence and victory, and in bearing hardships and calamities they have become the greatest sign, and in chastity and purity they have become the banner of the Kingdom of righteousness. AB04638


Sixth is equality between men and women   AB01118

thy daughters must speak with moderation concerning the emancipation of women in Europe. They must not appear strident, for stridency bringeth about other harms. One's speech must be mild.  AB09937


and likewise the equality of men and women  AB07457

In this day men and women are regarded as equal in rank.   BH07600



In the Kingdom of God, women and men are one and the same.  ABU3756

Seventh, unity between men and women and equality of rights  AB01419

These handmaidens are accounted as men in the sight of God.   BH09296


uphold the doctrine of perfect equality between men and women   AB05484


Man and woman both should be educated equally and equally regarded.  ABU0257

the upholders of the inviolable rights of equality between men and women   ABU1561

For it befits the wise to seek equality through prudent and educative means.  ABU3723

When He promulgated this principle in the Orient, the people were astonished.  ABU3456

the education of women to such a degree that they may have equal rights with men   ABU2221

Among them is the equality of men and women, with some exceptions in certain matters.  AB01534

The fifth teaching of Baha'u'llah is that there must be equality between women and men.   ABU1080

Today the handmaidens of God are accounted as men. Blessed are they and joy be unto them!   BH03015

He speaks with rational proofs and arguments about equality of rights between men and women   AB00966

Taken in general, women today have a stronger sense of religion than men. The woman's intuition is more correct; she is more receptive and her intelligence is quicker. The day is coming when woman will claim her superiority to man.... 	in the sight of God sex makes no difference. He or she is greatest who is nearest to God. ABU2288


Any soul, whether male or female, who has turned to the Truth is reckoned as being of the Truth   BH06465

Why do we have inequality of sexes? We all are children of the same father and the same mother.   ABU0994

In this new meeting, especially for the establishment of the Temple, ladies are also to be members.  AB02577

They are the equals of men. Man and wife are partners and life companions and not master and slave.  ABU0870

Therefore, male and female are one and the same, and men and bridal handmaidens enjoy an equal station.  AB07887

in this Dispensation women are equal to men and can even surpass them in some cases   AB00619

In this mighty Dispensation women are accounted the same as men except in some negligible circumstances.  AB07195

The talks which were given about the 'rights of women', praise be to God, now their signs have appeared!   AB00565

The girl's education is of more importance today than the boy's, for she is the mother of the future race.  ABU3422

the light of faith shines radiantly and brilliantly from the brow of every human being, whether man or woman  AB09818

Q. I see that in his tablet to Ex-Governor Sulzer the Master says that the Universal Arbitration Tribunal will consist of the best men and women of the different countries. Will women in the future sit in the Beit-ul-Adl also? Abdul Baha: Men and women are equal in this respect, with the condition that women should reach to the degree of men. As yet they have not reached this state. They will become members of the Beit-ul-Adl in the future. The time will come when women will reach the degree of men (as regards education). Then they will be equal. ABU1350




Baha'u'llah did away with the idea of distinction between the sexes, proclaiming them equal in every capacity.  ABU0587

"Now in America most of the teachers are maidservants of the Merciful, and they have truly excelled over the men."  AB05520

Yet another of the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the equality of men and women and their equal sharing in all rights.   AB00197

They establish the equality of both sexes and propound economic principles which are for the happiness of individuals.   AB02574

women have been raised up who, in recognition, certitude, utterance and explanation, have won the palm of victory from men  AB09812

Regarding women's liberation, a detailed confidential letter was written to you. Now observe how it was the essence of wisdom   AB11713

God has created man and wife as one, and perfect unity is established when these two are considered as one.   ABU0034



The parallel declarations and equal positioning of bride and groom on stones demonstrates their equal status in the marriage ceremony   ABU3005

In the estimation of God all men are equal. There is no distinction or preference for any soul, in the realm of His justice and equity  AB11562

The education of women is more important than the education of men, because when women are educated, children also develop in spiritual life.  AB07059

In this mighty Dispensation and ancient and living Cycle, women have been distinguished by such a bounty that they have become equal to men.   AB05342

This is the age of woman. She should receive the same education as her brother and enjoy the same privilege; for all souls are equal before God.   ABU3028

Another teaching is that there shall be perfect equality between men and women. Why should man create a distinction which God does not recognize?   ABU0038

Equality of men and women, except in some negligible instances, has been fully and categorically announced. Distinctions have been utterly removed.   AB12042

He establishes the equality of man and woman. This is peculiar to the teachings of Baha'u'llah, for all other religions have placed man above woman.   ABU0130

Man and woman should truly be friends and should be in sympathy with each other. They should be like one soul in two bodies, with no difference between them.  ABU2846

For the world of humanity has two wings - one male and one female. If one wing is weak, the bird cannot fly. When both wings gain strength, then it can soar.   AB03403

His sixth teaching is the equality of rights between men and women; they must achieve equality of rights so that women may attain all perfections equal to men.  ABU0056

By this is meant the Universal House of Justice; and in the election of the members of the Universal House of Justice women have the same voice and vote as men.  AB09218

Divine bounty hath ever encompassed and continueth to encompass all - the seeing and the blind, the learned and the ignorant, male and female - all stand in one spot.  BH07409

The question of the equality of right between male and female is one of the fundamental laws of nature, and it will be realized sooner or later. It is bound to come.   ABU1463

Did anyone previously imagine that women would one day demand equal rights with men and achieve their aim? Now in nine states of America women have gained the right to vote.  ABU0242

The emancipation of women is one of the pillars of the Cause of God...That Cause compriseth all that is good, among which is the emancipation of women and their equality with men.  AB09937

In this most wonderful Dispensation God hath clothed the women with a new garment and hath crowned their heads with a glorious diadem - and that is equality between men and women.  AB10778

"The seventh principle is the equality of rights for men and women. The education of women must be equal to that of men so that they may advance and achieve the same status as men."  ABU0521

In Europe and America, women are truly respected but their legitimate rights have not yet reached the degree of perfection, for their education in sciences and arts is not yet complete   AB12110

"Among the principles of Baha'u'llah's teachings is equality between men and women" ... "All created beings are male and female, and there is no difference between their males and females."  ABU1437

In Persia the men surpass the women. In the Kingdom there is no difference. All are good. Praise be to God, the Love of God is in their hearts! When women progress, some other fact is shown.  ABU1185

throughout the dispensations men were the heroes of the battlefield and the valiant members of the army of revolt, but in this great cycle some women will arise who will become the envy of men  AB05847

Praise be to God that over fifty years ago, the principle of Baha'o'llah was revealed; that women should have equal rights with men. He revealed this principle when no one else had thought of it.  ABU0298

In the East it was prohibited for men and women to assemble in the same room. However in this Dispensation, the women have the same rank as men, and there is not the least difference between the two.  ABU1742

"Unlike its Mohammedan neighbor, it teaches the equality of man and woman. 'The world of humanity has two wings,' is Abdul-Baha's view, 'man and woman. If one wing is weak then the bird cannot fly.'"   ABU0612

Glad tidings! For in this divine Cycle women will soon gallop in the arena of men. In America, the clamor of the handmaids of the All-Merciful has shaken the very foundations. Behold what is happening!  AB08516

both men and women are human and are like two wings for the world of humanity. If either of these wings is weak, the bird cannot fly. If both wings are strong, humanity will soar to the highest heaven   AB03499

in this Dispensation, women have assumed the same position as men, nay rather in Europe and America they have even surpassed men in the teaching work as well as in their attraction to the Divine fragrances  AB02832

Women's groups are advancing in this age and striving to become equal with men. This is a great intention. If women's groups progress and gain power, they will accomplish many things they are currently unable to do.  ABU0430

Although in ancient times the status of women was inferior compared to men, in this glorious Dispensation women are equal to men. Indeed, some of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful have outstripped men in the arena.  AB09954

If women had influence, the fire of this war would not have been ignited. If the women of Europe generally and the women of America collectively had the right to vote in all states, they certainly would not have agreed to war.  AB02500

The light of truth in this mighty Dispensation has cast its rays upon all, making no distinction between male and female. Women have attained the station of men, and those who were secluded have hastened to the arena of knowledge.  AB12640

Taken in general, women today have a stronger sense of religion than men. The woman's intuition is more correct; she is more receptive and her intelligence is quicker. The day is coming when woman will claim her superiority to man.   ABU2288


Today, the steadfast and assured maidservants are recorded and mentioned in the Crimson Book above the men. BH01021

Through the bounties of Baha'u'llah, exalted be His glory, such women are now endowed with a new garment. A crown of bounty hath been placed upon their heads. They have achieved dignity, have become peers of men, and have attained equality.  AB05762

His Holiness the Blessed Perfection has raised the station of woman and hath glorified her before the eyes of all the world. On her head He hath placed the crown of the Everlasting Glory, and in her hand He hath put the scepter of equality.  ABU2007

Today the women in the West lead the men in the services of the Cause, summon the people under the shade of the Blessed Perfection, and loosen their tongues in eloquent lectures, delivery of wonderful proofs and the elucidation of new arguments.  AB09113

Equality Between Men and Women: This is peculiar to the teachings of Baha'o'llah, for all former religious systems placed men above women. Daughters and sons must follow the same form of study and the same education. Having one course of education promotes unity among mankind.   ABU0225

I have said in America and Europe that there is only the question of votes in which women have been held back and claim equality with men. In California they even have this right. In all other respects it is men who must demand equality of rights.  ABU0319

"In all questions which concern the welfare of a nation, is not the woman's view as important as the man's, if one would get a just and true consideration of all sides of that question? Therefore I am in favour of votes for women on every subject."   ABU2697

I am the founder and promoter of women's freedom.   AB01316

Women have equal rights with men upon earth; in religion and society they are a very important element. As long as women are prevented from attaining their highest possibilities, so long will men be unable to achieve the greatness which might be theirs.  ABU0091

Regarding the matter of women seeking rights, this too is among the distinctive features of the teachings of Baha'u'llah, but this must be sought through the acquisition of perfections, the advancement of thoughts, the development of minds and souls, and divine spiritual power - not through impolite actions.  AB03188

Equality of the sexes, for mankind has two wings, male and female. When one of them is weaker than the other, the bird can not fly, and it is only when both wings have equal power that the bird can fly. Therefore when both do not have equal power, mankind can never prosper.  ABU0477

Another teaching establishes the equality of both sexes for the world of Humanity has two wings, one is the male sex and the other the female. Not until both wings are equally strong will the world of humanity be able to soar upon these wings and attain unto success and prosperity.   AB00374

In the sight of the Heavenly Father all are equal. The religion of God is for the equalization of rights and not for the gradation of classes and the distribution of privileges. The religion of God is the leveller of all social inequalities and the destroyer of sacerdotal distinctions.   ABU0722

In every Dispensation men had a greater share and portion from the ocean of divine bounties, and "Men are the protectors and maintainers of women" was evident. However, in this Most Great Dispensation, which is one of justice and equality, the closest and then the next closest are equal.  AB11202

After contrasting the general position of the Eastern and the Western women, and then describing how in many respects the Eastern woman has the advantage of her Western sister, Abdu'l-Baha turned and said to the visitor: "Give me your reasons for believing that woman today should have the vote?"  Answer: "I believe that humanity is a divine humanity and that it must rise higher and higher; but it cannot soar with only one wing." Abdu'l-Baha expressed his pleasure at this answer, and smiling, replied: "But what will you do if one wing is stronger than the other?" Answer: "Then we must strengthen the weaker wing, otherwise the flight will always be hampered."  Abdu'l-Baha smiled and asked: "What will you say if I prove to you that the woman is the stronger wing?" The answer came in the same bright vein: "You will earn my eternal gratitude!" at which all the company made merry.  Abdu'l-Baha then continued more seriously: "The woman is indeed of the greater importance to the race. She has the greater burden and the greater work. Look at the vegetable and the animal worlds. The palm which carries the fruit is the tree most prized by the date grower. The Arab knows that for a long journey the mare has the longest wind. For her greater strength and fierceness, the lioness is more feared by the hunter than the lion.  "The mere size of the brain has been proved to be no measure of superiority. The woman has greater moral courage than the man; she has also special gifts which enable her to govern in moments of danger and crisis. If necessary she can become a warrior."  ABU2700

The teachings of Baha'u'llah also proclaim equality between man and woman, for He has declared that all are the servants of God and endowed with capacity for the attainment of virtues and bestowals. All are the manifestations of the mercy of the Lord. In the creation of God no distinction obtains.  ABU0040

Baha'u'llah destroyed these ideas and proclaimed the equality of man and woman. He made woman respected by commanding that all women be educated, that there be no difference in the education of the two sexes and that man and woman share the same rights. In the estimation of God there is no distinction of sex.  ABU0006

His blessed speech and utterance concerned peace and reconciliation, the happiness and unity of humanity, explanation of divine teachings, and the necessity of education and refinement of women's manners and morals to such a degree that they would gain the capacity and worthiness for equality of rights with men.   ABU0795

In the Orient women were degraded and considered subordinate to man. Baha'u'llah proclaimed equality of the sexes -- that both man and woman are servants of God before Whom there is no distinction. Whosoever has a pure heart and renders good deeds is nearer to God and the object of His favor -- whether man or woman.   ABU0052

The Supreme Pen has removed the distinctions between servants and handmaidens, and through perfect grace and all-embracing mercy has established all upon a single plane. BH00733

Through the effulgent rays of divine illumination the capacity of woman has become so awakened and manifest in this age that equality of man and woman is an established fact. In past ages woman was wronged and oppressed. This was especially the case in Asia and Africa. In certain parts of Asia women were not considered as members of humankind.   ABU0146

This is the day of service and the day of deeds. Blessed are they, men and women, who have attained. Men and women are, in the sight of God today, beheld on the same plane, in the same realm.  BH06517

Furthermore, in the teachings of Baha'u'llah, as to the qualities of men and women, he declared years ago that man and woman are both human and are the creatures of one God; that in the estimation of God there is no distinction of gender. All were created after His image and likeness. All humanity is verily the image of God, whether male or female.  ABU0021

Day and night thou must strive so that the woman world may be adorned with complete culture and refinement, making extraordinary progress in the world of morality and be fully established in the realm of sciences and arts. This is the cause of the sublimity of the realm of woman. This is the means of the equalization of rights between all men and women.  AB10575

In this precious age, the century of the mighty and omnipotent Lord, women have placed the crown of men upon their heads, inasmuch as all are gathered on the same plane.  AB08520

In this divine Dispensation, and in this heavenly Age, mankind has become freed from the shackles of the distinction between the feminine and the masculine. The one who exerteth the utmost endeavor, is the one who advanceth and excelleth. How numerous are the men who remained behind [the veil], and how many the women who became the heroines of the field.  AB07653

Another teaching of Baha'o'llah is relative to the equality of men and women. In the human family of God there is no distinction. God is no respecter of gender. The religion of God is one. The human family share in common all the faculties; they share in common all the divine bounties. God has not accredited any difference between the male and the female.   ABU0036

Baha'u'llah declares the absolute equality of the sexes. The male and female in the mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms share alike the material bestowals. Why should there be a difference in the human kingdom? Verily, they are equal before God, for so he created them. Why should woman be deprived of exercising the fullest opportunities offered by life?   ABU0108

In this wondrous Dispensation, the favors of the Glorious Lord encompass the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, therefore they must, like men, snatch the ball from the field so it may be proven and established that the penetrating power of the Word of God in this new cycle has made women equal to men, and in the field of tests they seize the ball from the arena.  AB01261

Tenth, Baha'u'llah emphasized and established the equality of man and woman. Sex is not particularized to humanity; it exists throughout the animate kingdoms but without distinction or preference. In the vegetable kingdom there is complete equality between male and female of species. Likewise, in the animal plane equality exists; all are under the protection of God.  ABU0007

The sixth principle of Baha'o'llah regards the equality of men and women. The male and female of the human kingdom are equal before God. God is no respecter of gender. Whosoever practices more faith, whosoever practices more humanitarianism is nearer to God: but between the male and female there is no innate difference because they share in common all the faculties.   ABU0083

In this Revelation of Baha'u'llah, the women go neck and neck with the men. In no movement will they be left behind. Their rights with men are equal in degree. They will enter all the administrative branches of politics. They will attain in all such a degree as will be considered the very highest station of the world of humanity and will take part in all affairs. Rest ye assured. Do ye not look upon the present conditions; in the not far distant future the world of women will become all-refulgent and all-glorious, For His Holiness Baha'u'llah Hath Willed It so! At the time of elections the right to vote is the inalienable right of women, and the entrance of women into all human departments is an irrefutable and incontrovertible question. No soul can retard or prevent it. But there are certain matters, the participation in which is not worthy of women. For example, at the time when the community is taking up vigorous defensive measures against the attack of foes, the women are exempt from military engagements. It may so happen that at a given time warlike and savage tribes may furiously attack the body politic with the intention of carrying on a wholesale slaughter of its members; under such a circumstance defense is necessary, but it is the duty of men to organize and execute such defensive measures and not the women—because their hearts are tender and they cannot endure the sight of the horror of carnage, even if it is for the sake of defense. From such and similar undertakings the women are exempt. As regards the constitution of the House of Justice, Baha'u'llah addresses the men. He says: "O ye men of the House of Justice!" But when its members are to be elected, the right which belongs to women, so far as their voting and their voice is concerned, is indisputable. When the women attain to the ultimate degree of progress, then, according to the exigency of the time and place and their great capacity, they shall obtain extraordinary privileges. Be ye confident on these accounts.  AB00799

Humanity is like a bird with its two wings -- the one is male, the other female. Unless both wings are strong and impelled by some common force, the bird cannot fly heavenwards. According to the spirit of this age, women must advance and fulfill their mission in all departments of life, becoming equal to men. They must be on the same level as men and enjoy equal rights.   ABU0726

"If women were given the same advantages as men, their capacity being the same, the result would be the same. In fact, women have a superior disposition to men; they are more receptive, more sensitive, and their intuition is more intense. The only reason of their present backwardness in some directions is because they have not had the same educational advantages as men."  ABU0516

One of these principles concerns equality between men and women. He declared that as all are created in the image and likeness of the one God, there is no distinction as to sex in the estimation of God. He who is purest in heart, whose knowledge exceeds and who excels in kindness to the servants of God, is nearest and dearest to the Lord, our Creator, irrespective of sex.  ABU0009

In former times no one would have believed that women shall arise and demand equal rights and suffrage. Now in America the women have received suffrage in nine states and their cause is marching on. One of the meanings of the prophecy in the Old Testament that the lion and the deer shall graze together in one meadow is that men and women shall be equal and have the same rights.  ABU2930

Lack of equality between man and woman is, likewise, a cause of human dissension. Baha'u'llah has named this as an important factor of discord and separation, for so long as humankind remains unequally divided in right and importance between male and female, no unity can be established... God has created man and woman equal as to faculties. He has made no distinction between them.  ABU0023

There must be an equality of rights between men and women. Women shall receive an equal privilege of education. This will enable them to qualify and progress in all degrees of occupation and accomplishment. For the world of humanity possesses two wings: man and woman. If one wing remains incapable and defective, it will restrict the power of the other, and full flight will be impossible.  ABU0012

in the sight of Baha, women are accounted the same as men - all are created by God in His image and likeness, that is, as manifestations of His names and attributes. There is no distinction between them from a spiritual perspective. The nearer one is, the nearer they are, whether men or women. How many enkindled women in the shelter of Baha have surpassed men and excelled the renowned of the world!  AB02310

Men say that because women are weak and feeble in powers, and men are active in the field, therefore in existence women cannot be counted the same as men. But women claim: "We are equal with men in all the powers and in intelligence and understanding. There is no difference. We are all human beings and of humankind. What is the reason for this distinction? Nay this thought is tyranny and transgression."  AB01957

Girls are like boys - there is absolutely no difference. Ignorance in both is blameworthy, and lack of education in both types is repugnant. "Are those who know equal with those who know not?" This command is binding for both groups. In fact, if viewed with true insight, the education and training of girls is more necessary than boys, for these daughters will one day become mothers and nurturers of children.  AB00142


Women used to be oppressed in the Orient. They were in every respect humiliated. They were deprived of the opportunity to gain knowledge. They could not study science or art, and in politics they had no voice at all. Men did not consider them their equal. Baha'o'llah announced that women have the same right as men. He uplifted their conditions. He said, "The world of humanity has two wings, the one is man, the other woman."   ABU0212

In the olden time, it was not possible for women to sit at table in equality with the men, but in this Day it is different, and the change has been largely brought about by the position given to women in free America. It is the power of Baha'u'llah that made it possible for these American women to sit at this Table with these pilgrims. This is to show that in the Kingdom of Abha there will be equality established between women and men. They are equal.  ABU2523


Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the principle of equality of man and woman. Baha'u'llah has said that both belong to humankind and that in the estimation of God they are equal, for each is the complement of the other in the divine creative plan. The only distinction between them in the sight of God is the purity and righteousness of their deeds and actions, for that one is preferred by God who is most nearly in the spiritual image and likeness of the Creator.  ABU0153

O My Leaf! Bear thou witness that there is none other God but Him, the One, the Single, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting. Furthermore, let all know and be illumined in this matter by the lights of the Sun of certitude: male and female have been and always will be equal in the sight of God. The Dawning-Place of the Light of the All-Merciful has, with a single effulgence, shed His radiance upon all. He created the females for the males and the males for the females.  BH00086


in this manifest Cycle, since spiritual power has transcended physical bodies - and the dominion, influence and sovereignty in the human world belong to it - therefore the rule of masculine and feminine has been lifted, and the power and dominion of the spirit have become manifest, establishing equality between men and women. Today there is no difference or distinction in any aspect or condition between males and females; rather, they are on the same level and station with no difference or distinction  AB03015

"In proclaiming the oneness of mankind He taught that men and women are equal in the sight of God and that there is no distinction to be made between them. The only difference between them now is due to lack of education and training. If woman is given equal opportunity of education, distinction and estimate of inferiority will disappear. The world of humanity has two wings, as it were: One is the female; the other is the male. If one wing be defective, the strong perfect wing will not be capable of flight."  ABU0030


Now, in this wondrous Revelation, women have indeed surpassed men, and this limitation hath been removed. All have been accounted with the same station. Whosoever ariseth further, shall obtain a greater share; and the valiant hero who urgeth ahead and hit the polo ball of service, will carry off the prize, and it maketh no difference whether man or woman, whether male or female. The Lord hath exalted the veiled woman above the men, she hath triumphed over the largest of armies, and hath won the leading prize in the fields of ecstasy and delight.  AB04051


O handmaidens of God! The friends of the Beloved, both men and women, are accounted as leaves and fruits of the Blessed Tree, and all stand equally respected in one rank before the Most Sublime Vision. Distinction appears only through degrees of steadfastness, love, longing and devotion. Verily, the most honored among you in the sight of God is the most righteous. Through deeds are the stations of women and men made manifest; otherwise all are observed on the same plane, save those souls who have been specifically distinguished by the Most Exalted Pen.  BH00158


His Holiness BAHA'O'LLAH has set a brilliant crown upon the head of women, whose brilliant jewels will shine and gleam throughout all ages and cycles. In all the former dispensations, men were considered superior to women. Women were lower than men; nay, rather during some of the past ages women were made captives of men. For example during the Mosaic dispensation women were captives of men, but in the dispensation of BAHA'O'LLAH, His Bestowals have made men and women equal. He caused the people to put into active practice this social equality and declared that the women in this age shall make extraordinary advancement and they shall reach to such a degree, that no difference will be left between men and women.   ABU0483

The sixth principle or teaching of Baha'u'llah concerns the equality of man and woman. He has declared that in the estimation of God there is no distinction of sex. The one whose heart is most pure, whose deeds and service in the Cause of God are greater and nobler, is most acceptable before the divine threshold -- whether male or female. In the vegetable and animal kingdoms sex exists in perfect equality and without distinction or invidious estimate. The animal, although inferior to man in intelligence and reason, recognizes sex equality. Why should man, who is endowed with the sense of justice and sensibilities of conscience, be willing that one of the members of the human family should be rated and considered as subordinate?  ABU0051

He proclaimed the equality of men and women. In the Torah it is written that God said, Let us create man in Our image, after Our likeness, and in a tradition of the Prophet Muhammad it is stated: God created Adam in His image. The meaning of this image is the divine image, that is, man reflects the attributes of God and manifests the qualities of the Lord. God is Living, and man is living; God is Seeing, and man is seeing; God is Hearing, and man is hearing; God is Powerful, and man is powerful. Thus, man is a sign of the All-Merciful, created in the divine image and likeness. This applies generally and is not specific to men excluding women, for in God's sight there is no male and female. Whoever is more perfect is nearer to God, be it man or woman.  ABU0028


The equality of rights between men and women is better established in America than elsewhere, and is advancing day by day. However, until complete equality between male and female is achieved in rights, the world of humanity will not make extraordinary progress. Women constitute one important pillar of two mighty pillars and are humanity's first teachers and educators, for mothers are the first teachers of young children. They establish moral character and educate children, who later study in higher schools. Now if the teacher and educator is deficient, how can the one educated become perfect? Therefore, the progress of women brings about the progress of men, hence women must be given complete education so they may reach the level of men. Women must obtain the same education and privileges so that just as they share in life with men, they may also share in the perfections of the human world.  ABU0141
