
The Dawn hath appeared upon the Temple of Man. Verily this is the Book of the All-Merciful which was mentioned in the Scriptures of God, the Most High, the Most Great. Therein hath been inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen that which none knoweth save His Own Self, the All-Knowing. This Book can only be known through itself, and this Man can only be known through his own self.  BH08934

Similarly man makes advances along his discipleship in Christ; he does not become Christ. Christ is infinite, while man is finite in comparison to Him.   AB03068

"Say: Seek ye forgiveness for what ye have thought concerning Him Who was among you but as one like yourselves. Though ye traverse the earth, ye shall find none like unto Him - and God is witness to this."  BH05177

He Who is everlastingly hidden from the eyes of men can never be known except through His Manifestation, and His Manifestation can adduce no greater proof of the truth of His Mission than the proof of His own Person.   BH03835

The other station is the special station of the Prophets, wherein God raiseth up an individual to the station of Prophethood without regard to capacity or qualification, as in the case of Moses, Christ, and Muhammad.   ABU0830

Man has two planes: the physical and the intellectual. The divine revelators have three: their physical condition, which is shared by all mankind - they eat, they sleep, they are sometimes ill, they become well again, they become fatigued, they undergo all that man can undergo; their intellectual degree and their holy reality which surrounds all beings and comprehends secrets. Their horizons enfold the universe, for they are the suns of real truth illuminating all the regions of thought, dispersing the darkness, uplifting the world of mankind and making the material world heavenly. Were it not for these divine messengers there would be no consciousness of continuity....  Other men, although able to evolve to a high degree, are still in the second condition; this third state is alone partaken of by the divine messengers although great saints have attained extraordinary pre-eminence and reflect the splendor of the sun.  ABU1953

Those Prophets who are Manifestations of God, sent by God, (Avatars) are of the Essence (Logos) and quite untouched by the faith of disciples, but lesser prophets, those under the shadow of (Avatars) manifestations can be raised by the faith and love of their believers.   ABU3385

Look not upon all people with the same eye, for the likeness of all forms compared to the form of Him Whom God shall make manifest is as the likeness of suns in mirrors compared to the sun in heaven - all derive their existence from it and draw their sustenance from it, and have no reality except through it.  BB00003

The people see that holy reality manifest in a human temple, but they do not see the power of the Holy Spirit. They look at the human aspect, and since they see that in their human station they share qualities with other humans - they eat, they sleep, they become ill, they grow weak - therefore they make comparison with themselves and say: These are like us, they have no distinction.  ABU0103

A dull person, no matter how much severe discipline he may undergo, no matter how much he may strive and be transformed, can never attain to the station of the Manifestations of Revelation and the Dawning-places of inspiration. The zaqqum tree cannot become a lofty palm, nor can the bitter colocynth yield sweet fruit. What fantasies are these, what strange conjectures, that people give ear to such delusions!  AB01205

As for the possibility of all creation attaining the station of the Prophets, this is not possible since creation has ranks - the lower cannot comprehend the higher - "He created you in stages." A hard stone cannot become a red ruby, and pottery and shells cannot become brilliant pearls. Quddus was under the shadow of the Exalted One [the Bab], not independent, but Jesus and Muhammad were independent beings. The believers of this Manifestation can reach the station of the Prophets of Israel, but not the Manifestations of Universal Divine Authority, for they were Universal Manifestations. In brief, the Universal Manifestations of God who shone forth independently have another station and another condition - no one can attain their station and rank.   AB01558
