I testify that the essence of creation is the essence of knowledge in the realm of possibility, but knowledge in the Divine Essence is the Essence Itself - none knoweth how it is save Him   BH00952

His essential eternity is in itself indicative of the presence of His being, that it is as it is. Created things are cut off from the station of knowledge, and contingent beings are precluded from the station of explanation.  BB00173

That which is described as God's knowledge is other than what you describe. That which is described as God's hearing is other than what you describe. That which is described as God's sight is other than what you describe. And likewise you witness in all that is attributed to God.  BB00005

He is the First, but is not described by firstness; He is the Last, but is not characterized by lastness; He is the Manifest, but is not praised for manifestation; He is the Hidden, but is not known through hiddenness. He is the One Who made all first things without any first, and brought forth all last things without any last. He is the One Who created all outer things without any outer things, and originated all inner things without any inner things.  BB00005

existence as conceived by man or comprehended through human reason or intellect is a characteristic of matter...But it is not so with the Essential Self-Existent One. His existence is true existence which is self-subsistent, not an intellectually perceived and comprehended existence  ABU1537

We say God is Creator. This name Creator appears when we connote creation. We say God is the Provider. This name presupposes and proves the existence of the provided. God is Love. This name proves the existence of the beloved. In the same way God is Mercy, God is Justice, God is Life, etc.  ABU0041

Through mention of power, life, grandeur and attributes is His remembrance of His creation, lest they harbor doubts about their Lord or question their God, that He is He, not encompassed by what they have encompassed in contingent existence - far be such thoughts from God, the Lord of all worlds.   BB00062

Despite His manifestation in all things, He hath ever been sanctified above them and exalted beyond that which the people of mystical knowledge have uttered. Whoso hath recognized Him in His Manifestation hath attained unto Divine Unity, and whoso hath remained heedless is of the people of the veil.  BH03690

We further bear witness that He is One in His attributes, and all attributes are severed from His holy court... Know thou that the multiplicities of the worlds of attributes and names can never be associated with His Essence, for His attributes, exalted be He, are identical with His Essence, and none shall ever know how this is save Him.  BH00134

Verily the truth, according to the All-Bountiful, exalted be His mention, is that the servant should not ascribe to Him any name in the station of His Essence, nor attribute in the reality of His Self, nor description in the station of His Identity, for in that station He cannot be known by the how, nor described by the where, nor limited by indication, nor qualified by worship.  BB00042

And that essence of Primal Oneness, in that most great station in which it is said: There was God and there was naught else besides Him, is called by the names: the Hidden Treasure, the Hidden Ipseity [Huwiyyat], the Absolute Unity, Pure Essence [dhat], Absolute Non-specificity, the Hidden of the Hidden, the Primal Mystery, the Absolute Unknown, the Indescribable One, the Undiscoverable One and other Names.  AB00006

Rather, in truth His holy Essence has no attribute other than His Essence. And the attributes which the Holy Household, peace be upon them, have explained are, by the explicit word of His Holiness Rida, peace be upon him, for sweeping away delusions. God has ever been Knowing while nothing was known with Him. His Knowledge is His Essence. And whoever has sought to know His Knowledge and its modality, he is an infidel.  BB00017

That reality admits of no division, for division and multiplicity are among the characteristics of created and hence contingent things, and not accidents impinging upon the Necessary Being. The reality of the Divinity is sanctified above singleness, then how much more above plurality. For that divine reality to descend into stations and degrees would be tantamount to deficiency, contrary to perfection, and utterly impossible.   AB00713

If I say Thou art All-Knowing, I mean but to declare Thy sanctity from the existence of any known thing in relation to Thy knowledge, and if I say Thou art All-Powerful, I seek but to proclaim Thy holiness from mention of anything ruled alongside Thee. Thou art as Thou art - no description, no attribute, no quality belongeth to Thy Court, no measure, no name to Thy Being, no mark, for Thy Essence is known through Thy Being and Thy Being described through Thine Essence.  BB00029

He has ever been Lord without a subject, Knower without an object of knowledge, Powerful without object of power, Existent without any existent thing. And now God is as He has ever been: He is the Being without subject, He is the Knower without object known, He is the Powerful without object of power, He is the Existent without existent thing. He has no name, no description, no attribute, and no token. All are cut off from His essence and all are separated from His being.  BB00137

In this station, the attributes and names are not distinct from the Essence, and the realities of known things remain in the concealment of non-existence. Rather, the attributes are identical with the Essence, without any trace of distinction. Indeed, all are conditions considered within the Essence in a mode of simplicity and unity, without any trace of otherness. This is the station concerning which He, peace be upon Him, said: God was, and there was nothing else besides Him.  AB03551

God, exalted be His glory, hath ever been our Lord, knowing, and knowledge was His essence when there was nothing to be known; and hearing was His essence when there was nothing to be heard; and sight was His essence when there was nothing to be seen; and power was His essence when there was nothing over which to exercise power. When He brought things into being, knowledge occurred between Him and the known, hearing between Him and the heard, sight between Him and the seen, and power between Him and that over which power was exercised.   BB00064

Verily He, exalted be His glory, hath no need in His life for the existence of aught beside Him, and likewise in knowledge He hath no need for the existence of anything known, for He is His own Self. Similarly befitting unto God, glorified and exalted be He, are all the attributes of perfection and names of glory, and whatsoever name is attributed to Him pertaineth to the modes of His action, and these are the modes of His command. The names of the Divine Essence have ever described God, and the names of Divine Action shall forever glorify God. Yet the former is eternally ancient, while the latter is mentioned in connection with creation and origination.  BB00005

Furthermore, knowledge is of two kinds: One knowledge relates to the Divine Essence - it is essential divine knowledge, identical with the Essence, not distinct from it, for in that station there is pure unity, and the Essence comprises all names and attributes. That essential divine knowledge is incomprehensible. The other knowledge is in the realm of action, meaning it is identical with what is known, and that is realization externally. Sight connects with an existent thing, not with a non-existent thing. Knowledge can connect with a non-existent thing, but sight cannot. This is why He says "when He created, He saw that it was good." Those versed in divine mysteries maintain that knowledge is of two kinds: One kind is perception of a thing without a distinct form in the mind - this is essential knowledge. The second knowledge is formal knowledge, which is witnessed knowledge, meaning perception of a thing with its distinct form in the mind. This witnessing of Truth refers to witnessed knowledge. But existential knowledge is identical to God's Essence - like God's Essence it cannot be comprehended, and none can fathom its essential reality.  AB00954

