
And when that light of identity gleamed forth from the lamp of unity, names and attributes appeared and the divine archetypal forms of contingent beings became manifest  AB03187

Whoso maintaineth the existence of fixed archetypes in the Divine Essence to prove His exalted knowledge, as most have done save whom God willeth, this is pure association in the doctrine of the family of God. For mention of their otherness in existence testifieth to separation and indicateth division. God is the Eternal who hath ever been in one state.  BB00021

The philosophers have slipped in the station of recognizing that First Emanation...Therefore they were compelled to believe in fixed archetypes within the Essence, and the unity of existence in all particles, and the causality of contingent beings' origination in the eternality of the Essence, and the mention of the simple reality in the Essence and its manifestations in the attributes.  BB00042

And from this manifestation the Eternal Archetypes came into intellectual being. And each one, according to its inherent capacity, is distinguished from the others in the mirrors of the Divine Knowledge. And this secondary station is set up along the lines of the first stage, the stage of the Mystery of Primary Oneness. And this [second] stage is known as the Secondary Unknown, Manifested Oneness and the Eternal Archetypes.  AB00006

Essential Pre-existence, which has ever been, existed when nothing else existed alongside it, nothing accompanied it, and nothing else was mentioned at its level - this is the pre-existence of the Eternal Essence which exists without anything being mentioned with it or any multiplicity existing in the simplicity of its essence. Exalted is God above what the philosophers say when they claim that the cause of origination is the pre-existence of the Essence, thereby seeking to establish a connection between Truth and contingent being and to prove the existence of archetypes through the pure subtlety of simplicity in the Essence.  BB00064
