
Consider, for instance, at the time of the manifestation of the universal Manifestation, before that Ancient Being maketh Himself known and uttereth the creative Word, the world existed but none had knowledge of Him. Likewise, He was the Creator but no creation existed with Him, for at that moment the spirit is withdrawn from all to which the name thing can be applied.  BH00060

And when thou hast understood this, thou wilt be certain that creation hath no beginning whereby thou mightest reckon from its inception, and preserve this as one of the bounds of thy religion. In every Revelation all things are renewed and created anew.  BB00027

even as He was in the beginning that has no beginning   BH05265

since He is the Creator, without doubt He has always had a creation   ABU3569

He is the One Who originates what He willeth by His command, and unto God shall all be turned.  BB00004

If we determine a beginning and an end for creation, it is as if we determine a beginning and an end for God. There can be no creator without a creation.   ABU3115

This globe is indeed millions of years old, and its Creator has had no beginning and will have no ending. He has been, is and will be the Alpha and Omega.   ABU0723

Thou art He Who existed before all things through Thy Being above all things, and Thou art He Who will endure after all things in the everlastingness of Thine existence.  BB00028

Through a hundred thousand means He brought creation from nothingness into being, and confirmed it with all that leads to the elevation of its station and the exaltation of its rank.   BH01435

For Thou hast ever been and wilt ever be, existing before all things when naught was with Thee, and Thou wilt continue to be even as Thou wert, remaining after the passing of all things when naught shall be with Thee.   BB00149

just as there was no beginning to God's Divinity and Lordship, likewise there will be no beginning or end to His creative power, sustaining power and divine perfections. That is, creation has existed from a beginningless beginning to an endless end and will continue to exist.  AB02206

Days may pass away and times may come to an end, but the favors of the Blessed Beauty remain eternal and everlasting, and the bounties of the Most Great Name continue forever and ever, embracing eternity. Therefore seek thou that which is eternal, and desire thou that which is everlasting.  AB09244

There are two kinds of eternities. There is an eternity of essence, that which is without first cause, and an eternity of time, that which has no beginning. The universe has never had a beginning. From the point of view of essence it transforms itself. God is eternal in essence and in time. He is his own existence and cause.  ABU0766

Notwithstanding this, we read in Genesis in the Old Testament that the lifetime of creation is but six thousand years. This has an inner meaning and significance; it is not to be taken literally...Our purpose is to show that the divine sovereignty, the Kingdom of God, is an ancient sovereignty, that it is not an accidental sovereignty.  ABU0033

As for existence, creation and origination, these are requirements of God's names and attributes, for there can be no Creator without creation, no Provider without those provided for, no Lord without subjects, and no Sovereignty without citizens. God's sovereignty is eternal and everlasting without beginning, and the kingdom of that true Sovereign, His subjects, His majesty and His beauty are likewise eternal and everlasting.  AB03015

Pre-existence and Origination. Question: How many kinds of pre-existence and origination are there? Answer: Certain sages and philosophers hold that there are two kinds of pre-existence, essential and temporal, and that there are likewise two kinds of origination, essential and temporal. Essential pre-existence is an existence which is not preceded by a cause; essential origination is preceded by a cause. Temporal pre-existence has no beginning; temporal origination has both a beginning and an end.  AB00839

Know that it is one of the most abstruse questions of divinity that the world of existence--that is, this endless universe--has no beginning. Apart from this, absolute non-existence lacks the capacity to attain existence. If the universe were pure nothingness, existence could not have been realized. Thus, as that Essence of Oneness, or divine Being, is eternal and everlasting--that is, as it has neither beginning nor end--it follows that the world of existence, this endless universe, likewise has no beginning.   AB00077

In the world of existence and the realm of being, the ultimate desire of humanity is permanence and immortality. Despite physical afflictions and trials, and endless pain and calamities, still man yearns for everlasting life. If then this ephemeral existence, which appeareth as reality, is so greatly cherished as the ultimate goal and desire of man, how much more precious and exalted must be that eternal life and everlasting felicity in the realm of immortality and the world of sacrifice, which are among the fruits of divine guidance!  AB05732

Since the existence of the Eternal Essence is established by His own existence and not by anything else - as indicated by "O Thou Who hast proven Thy Essence by Thy Essence" - the existence of originated things is established through creation itself, not from anything else. And it has four ranks, among them the rank of manifest eternity in the First Remembrance and the manifest eternity in the station of action, which is the station God made in creation for the station of knowing through reasoning about the eternity of His Essence and His eternality  BB00064

When a discerning man considers the evolution of humanity and studies pages of the book of creation, it is evident that the world is not limited to six thousand years. The divine truth is an everlasting cause. The life of divinity if infinite. Is it possible for His eternity to come to an end? Sovereignty requires subjects, attendants, armies, courts, soldiers and people. Is it meaningful to claim that one is a king without having an army? Light and warmth are the essential attributes of the sun. Therefore, is it possible to say that at one time sun did not have light or energy, or perhaps it does not have these qualities now? Nay, it is impossible.  ABU0639

The purpose of creation is spiritual existence and divine being; otherwise, if one reflects a little, even children can understand that this infinite universe, this endless existence, this mighty system, this workshop of the Ancient Power is not merely six thousand years old - it is far more ancient than that. This has been proven through conclusive rational and scientific evidence to the learned and scientists in this illumined age. Today, remains have been discovered which conclusively establish their existence from ten thousand years ago. From the science of geology this hidden secret becomes evident - that the age of the world far exceeds human conception.  AB00262

Quintessential gems of divine unity and delicate pearls of holy praise ascend unto the court of the peerless Sovereign and glorious King, Who hath caused the realities of all created things and the subtleties and refinements of the essences of beings to emerge from utter nothingness into the realms of existence and immortality, and Who hath rescued them from the abasement of remoteness and extinction, exalting them to the kingdom of glory and eternity. This was naught but His Own prior grace and all-embracing mercy, for it is evident that absolute nothingness hath no capacity or receptivity for existence, and utter extinction hath no worthiness for being and creation.   BH00690
