When the ethereal force undulates, luminosity appears on the horizons.   AB03468

The material light is a vanishing matter and is known by etheric vibrations.  AB10179

Verily, the ray, being transmitted from the etheric sphere, rends the space and reaches the surface of the earth  AB10689

The light of the sun has only one function and that is to make things manifest. This light is not important. It is only the result of ethereal vibrations.   ABU2757

The spirit of faith is like the ether regarded as the vehicle of light. Etheric matter is found everywhere; but only where it is in undulation does light appear. The appearance of light is not caused by motions to and fro of the ether- by its goings or its comings -but by undulations in the ether every-where present. Thus at night we have etheric matter, but without undulations, and therefore darkness prevails; but by the power of the sun it is caused to undulate, and light appears.   ABU0647

The philosophers of old believed in the four elements, and contended that the element of fire was above ether, but these materialist philosophers now maintain that all these elements are compounded rather than uncompounded, and that, while ether cannot be detected by the senses, it nonetheless encompasses all creation. Although these philosophers believe ether to be intangible, yet they deny the existence of other intangible forces - this notwithstanding that the inability to perceive something with the senses does not necessarily prove the non-existence of that thing....  ABU3701

When we observe the world of created phenomena, we discover that each atom of the atoms of substance is moving through the various degrees and kingdoms of organic life. For instance, consider the ethereal element which is penetrating and traveling through all the contingent realities. When there is vibration or movement in the ethereal element, the eye is affected by that vibration and beholds what is known as light.  ABU0041


Although they themselves believe in the imperceptibility of ethereal force, they still deny imperceptible forces, while denial and lack of perception is no proof for the non-existence and absence of a force or perfection.  ABU1167

"The external light is created by waves in the ether It is an accident that emanates from light-giving bodies and it enables objects to become visible and apparent to the sight. However, in and of itself this material source of light is not capable of sensing the presence of objects nor can it give us any information about them."   AB07435
