
O leaf whose father hath ascended unto God!   BH06062

In commemoration of Muhammad who ascended unto God   BH08037

opening paragraph about the ascension of Mr. Minshadi   AB01981

Entire prayer is a eulogy for the martyred Mulla Ali-Jan   AB04623

O friends and relatives of him who hath ascended unto God!  AB04512

that illustrious person...that leader of the righteous ones   AB12103

reference to "the honored Ustad Ali-Akbar-i-Yazdi, martyred"   AB11944

O wife of Muhammad-i-Qabl-i-Ja'far, who hath ascended unto God!  BH05513

Thou hast kept alight the lamp of the late Haji Mirza 'Abdu'llah  AB10705

Account of the death of Zia Efendi and visit to console his widow  AB05033

Entire text is a eulogy for a child who passed away early in life   BH07610

The entire passage serves as a eulogy remembering Varqa and Ruhu'llah   AB02070

The description of Christ's three years of hardship in the wilderness   ABU0482

The entire tablet serves as a eulogy to the recipient's deceased father  AB07548

After the ascension of Jinab-i-'Andalib, a prayer was written and sent   AB06658

you are related to that pure soul and are the fruit of that verdant tree  AB06389

praise and remembrance of Abdul-Wahhab's spiritual qualities and service   AB01783

When the blessed leaf, the handmaiden of Baha, Fatimeh Begum, ascended...   AB03778

brother of him who was martyred in the love of his Lord, the honored Varqa   AB03945

Your father Rustam and your brother Faridun have renown in the world above.   AB05654

This sapling of hopes, greatest among men, is Thy near servant Ismu'llah Asdaq  AB04529

That predecessor was a sign of the All-Merciful and a standard of the Lord God.  AB09342

Notice of the passing of 'Ali-Qabli-Akbar and his station in the Supreme Horizon   BH01608

tribute to Vahid's station, sacrifice and spiritual qualities and accomplishments  AB00669

He became intoxicated from their cup and joined the luminous stars of the martyrs.  AB06019

O Leaf, daughter of the King of Martyrs! Upon you and those with you be the Glory of God   BH10596

The entire tablet is an extended eulogy and remembrance of a martyred believer in Isfahan   BH01885

The entire text is a eulogy regarding the persecution and eventual burial of a noble soul   AB03572

entire visitation prayer for Ustad Mirza the Martyr, praising his qualities and sacrifice   AB01138

This is a Book from God to her who hath believed in her Lord and was among the devout ones   BH07865

"Mahmud is in a praiseworthy station and Nur is seated upon the throne of joy and delight."  AB06387

Your revered father's radiant countenance shines bright in the horizon of the Lord's mercy   AB11978

The entire text is a eulogy commemorating the martyrdom and spiritual station of Abdul-Baqi   BH09662

This entire prayer is a eulogy remembering and praising Mulla Abdul-Fattah and his sacrifices  AB01458

praise for the recipient as descendant of a martyr and comparison to "two Most Great Martyrs"   AB04538

entire text is a eulogy remembering Mirza Isma'il Khayyat's spiritual qualities and martyrdom   AB01658

Prayer for the soul of Aqa Siyyid Rida Zargar, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.  AB09130

The entire text is a memorial eulogy for Abu'l-Vafa, describing his faithfulness and suffering   AB01775

his candle is already alight in the Supreme Concourse and his name is renowned in that gathering  AB12748

that pure and holy bird was a servant at the Sacred Threshold and rendered outstanding services   AB11735

This entire prayer is a eulogy and remembrance of Mulla Zaynu'l-'Abidin, the uncle of Baha'u'llah   AB02486

This entire tablet is a eulogy for Siyyid Mustafa, describing his spiritual station and ascension   AB02044

Khusraw is a person of pleasant countenance and good nature, faithful, truthful, and a kind friend   AB05182

Prayer of visitation for Ni'matu'llah, son of him who ascended unto God, Aqa Muhammad-Javad-i-Naraqi  AB12618

Your noble father in the Abha Kingdom takes pride in the steadfastness of his self-sacrificing sons   AB07347

This entire tablet is a eulogy for the deceased Mulla 'Ali, praising his steadfastness and sacrifices  AB02621

Previously, condolences were sent to Yazd regarding the ascension of two Afnans of the Blessed Tree.   AB11689

O handmaiden of Baha! I could find no name or title greater and more noble with which to praise you.   AB03916

Entire letter is a eulogy for the recently deceased Rida-Quli Khan, praising his station and character   AB06202

We were with her at the time of her ascension, and We made mention of her before and after her passing.   BH06880

Blessed are ye, for ye were endowed with faith in days when trembling seized the limbs of all religions.   BH11273

The soul of Jinab-i-Aqa Zaynu'l-'Abidin has ascended to God. Upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God.   AB05344

Blessed is your father who was with Me most days and bore witness to that which God Himself had testified   BH07972

Praise be to God, he was a believer and was certain, he was steadfast and firm, he was knowing and aware.   AB05661

These are the remembrances of those blessed souls - may the spirit of 'Abdu'l-Baha be sacrificed for them   AB03736

A eulogy for Sheikh Baqir Sadr al-Sultan, praising his spiritual qualities and steadfastness in the Faith   AB01988

The servant of the threshold, Jamshid, took refuge at the divine threshold and was among the truthful ones   AB06606

Letter discussing arrangements for shrine of deceased Hand of the Cause Ibn-i-Abhar and visit to his grave   AB11723

Know thou the value of Miss . . . . Truly I say, she was an angel of heaven and light beaming and sparkling.  AB05468

His honor your father, upon him be the Glory of God, is mentioned with a glance of favor in the Abha Kingdom  AB06253

"Give thanks to the Glorious Lord that thou hast made His Holiness Abraham proud in the Most Glorious Kingdom"  AB07340

The wise servant of the court, Gushtasp, turned his face from this dark world and hastened to the realm above.  AB06461

She was the very essence of loyalty. She assisted the believers very much and served them without ostentation.   ABU1502

This entire text is a eulogy and remembrance of a faithful female believer named 'Azziyyih who has passed away.   BH01983

This entire Tablet is a eulogy of Rahim, praising his faithfulness to the Covenant and his spiritual attainments  BH04547

This entire tablet is a eulogy to Siyyid-Rida, praising his steadfastness, faithfulness and service to the Cause   BH02191

Your esteemed father became a martyr in the path of the Lord, but praise be to God, he left you brothers behind.   AB11996

The glory of God rest upon thee and upon thy father who hath ascended to the Supreme Companion and upon thy mother  BH10122

This entire tablet is a eulogy for Muhammad-Taqi who passed away in prison, praising his steadfastness and services   BH02096

Verily the layers of light descending from heaven encompass your radiant resting place and your pure and holy grave   AB05032

Prayer for the calamity of the son of his honor Shaykh Ahmad who ascended to God, immersed in the seas of His love.   AB03603

She ascended and soared unto the Supreme Companion, attaining that which tongues and pens are powerless to describe.   BH06805

Thou and the departed one who hath ascended unto the Supreme Companion have ever been and continue to be remembered.   BH05222

Eulogy praising Sadiq's spiritual qualities, his belief in the Bab and Baha'u'llah, and his firmness in the Covenant   AB03470

The entire text is a historical reminiscence about Aqa Mirza Sadiq Qa'im-Maqam and his relationship with Baha'u'llah   AB01379

the fragrant tomb of His Holiness who ascended to God, who attained the Supreme Companion, Jinab-i-Ismu'llah al-Asdaq  AB01855

This entire prayer is a eulogy for the departed Afnan Mirza Ibrahim, recounting his spiritual qualities and services   AB12122

O successor of that blessed predecessor! That predecessor was a sign of the All-Merciful and a banner of the Lord God.  AB09342

The entire first section addressing Mirza Ali Asghar as descendant of Mir Amir Khan and praising the family's station   AB03959

Extended memorial prayer for multiple deceased believers listing their names and praying for their spiritual elevation   AB02939

We were grieved by the intensification of illness of the assured handmaiden of God, the mother of Aqa Mirza Baha'u'd-Din  AB02385

Prayer commemorating and praising the life and qualities of Mi'mar-Bashi, describing his spiritual station and services   AB01225

The entire text is a eulogy and remembrance of Sadru's-Sudur, praising his spiritual qualities and services to the Faith  AB01162

the honored Haji Ali of Qarabagh, who was firm in his faith and a believer in God, hath ascended to the Supreme Companion  BH08895

As for Muhammad-'Ali who attained repeatedly and then ascended to the Supreme Horizon - he is the Comforter, the Consoler  BH02823

Go every year to visit the grave of Mr Chase on my behalf, for he was a sanctified soul; his station will be known later.  ABU1679

The entire text is a eulogy for a departed female believer, testifying to her faith, recognition and spiritual attainment   BH04716

That embodied spirit and personified light, that possessor of an illumined visage and perfumed nature, His Holiness Ashraf  AB12647

He is the Eternal! Verily, the exalted leaf hath heard the call of the divine Lote-Tree and hath taken her flight unto it.   BH11569

O my Leaf and Mother of Afnan! Upon thee be My glory and My mercy which has preceded all who are in the heavens and earths.  BH10499

One of My leaves hath ascended unto the Most Exalted Horizon. We beseech God to send down upon her mercy from His presence   BH03909

The entire text is a eulogy for one who has passed away, Aqa Ali, offering comfort and spiritual perspective on his death.   AB06922

The handmaiden of God, Lua, has hastened from this world to another world...you should speak well of her in every gathering  AB05204

For in the days of her life she was accustomed to services and engaged in labors. In truth, she has great right of service   AB03784

The entire text is a eulogy remembering and praising the spiritual qualities and sacrifices of these two martyred brothers   AB02484

Those days were marvelously pleasant! Turks have a saying, "The memory and reminiscence of those days are worth the world!"  ABU2225

And We desire to make mention of him who ascended unto the Supreme Companion, who was named 'Ali-Akbar in the Book of Names.  BH04107

Praise and remembrance of Vahid: "that manifest light", "that noble soul", "that noble one", "that leader of the righteous"   AB05644

I bear witness that thou didst believe in thy Lord and His verses...Thus thy mention spread and circulated among all peoples   AB01364

Lua, Juliet, May, Ella--how attached to each other they are! Poor Lua! She is no more. She is very happy in the Kingdom of God!  AB10287

We testify that he stood firm in My service, spoke My praise, and drank the choice wine of My love from the hand of My bounty.   BH02255

His honor Sadru's-Sudur has hastened to the divine realm. During his lifetime, he rendered great and self-sacrificing services.  AB12548

That branch offered up his soul in the flower of his youth and with the utmost joy and gladness he hastened to the realm beyond.  BH03411

The days passed in ecstasy and joy and love and rapture, and the span of life was spent in love of the Beloved of the horizons.   AB06224

A remembrance of a recently departed believer who lived a life of faith and service, culminating in pilgrimage to the Holy Land   AB02049

references to following example of "the martyred Shaykh Ahmad" and statement that "divine bestowals to the martyrs are endless"   AB00897

O scion of that sacrifice upon the altar of love! How wonderful would it be if you were to become a branch of that ascending Tree  AB09401

This entire prayer is a eulogy remembering the life and qualities of Mulla Ali Baba, "known as 'the Great' among the loved ones"   AB03902

The entire text is a eulogy and remembrance for Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Aqa, praising his spiritual qualities and devotion to the Cause  AB02859

The entire letter eulogizes and reminisces about Haji Mirza 'Abdullah, praising his spiritual qualities and service to the Faith   AB03393

The entire prayer serves as a eulogy remembering the noble character and sacrificial death of Muhammad Taqi Khan and Abdul-Wahhab   AB00724

Details the noble qualities and stations of "His Holiness the sweet Martyr" and "Haji Ali Khan" as founders of a spiritual lineage   AB03911

"Thou wert the companion of that manifest light and brilliant star, and under the same constellation thou wert his intimate friend"  AB03215

O exalted leaf, handmaiden of God, mother of His Holiness the Martyr son of the Martyr, upon her be the Most Glorious Glory of God!   AB06842

The entire first paragraph is a eulogy for a departed soul, beginning "My Lord, my Lord! The fires of yearning have been kindled..."   AB01004

Although those two honored ones have hastened to the Kingdom of Mysteries, praise be to God that they left you two as their memorial.   AB11705

Lengthy eulogy for Engineer Volkov, the architect of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, praising his dedicated service and describing his passing.  AB12120

His honor 'Ayn and the honored wife, upon them be the Glory of God, have turned in that direction. May God ennoble their resting place.  BH11257

O descendant of that sacrifice upon the altar of love! Would that thou mightest become, like unto that ascending Tree, a branch thereof  AB09401

This entire tablet is a eulogy of a prominent Baha'i family, praising their services and steadfastness from the early days of the Faith  AB02548

This entire tablet is a eulogy for the deceased believer Aqa Mirza Na'im, describing his spiritual qualities and services to the Faith   AB00849

We had a great teacher in this Cause by the name . He lived a long life and up to his last breath he served the Cause most faithfully.   ABU0339

This entire tablet is a eulogy remembering the recently ascended Afnan Ja'far, praising his recognition, steadfastness and love for God.  BH04871

O remnant of that sacrifice at the altar of love! Honored Muhammad Hasan was present and mention was made of you, and we remembered you.  AB12624

This entire tablet is a eulogy and remembrance of Mirza Siyyid 'Ali Khan and exhortation to his son to follow in his father's footsteps   AB01779

This entire tablet is a eulogy for Haji Mirza Muhammad and his sons, testifying to their faith, steadfastness, and spiritual attainments.   BH02743

The martyr Aqa Ghulam-Husayn, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God... a visitation tablet has been written for that peerless martyr   AB11951

The virtues, excellences, and noble characteristics of that one who ascended unto God must needs be reflected in thee and become manifest.  AB11341

This entire tablet is a eulogy and remembrance of Muhammad-Taqi Khan, praising his devotion, steadfastness and sacrifice in the path of God   BH02434

After the ascension of your noble father, that illustrious prince, a prayer seeking forgiveness was written and sent for that bird of truth   AB11778

You will observe the results of this ascension later in his lineage, as divine favors will encompass them and eternal gifts will be attained.  AB05076

praises and remembers Shaykh Salman's life of service spreading divine Tablets through challenging journeys across deserts, seas and mountains  AB05948

This is Thy servant, sprung from the loins of one who believed in Thee and Thy signs, and descended from a noble father who affirmed Thy words   AB02003

You who were among the first to believe, who recognized the Ancient Beauty, who made the mighty fortress of the love of God your dwelling place   AB04882

After the ascension of the Blessed Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - 'Abdu'l-Baha was never so affected by any calamity.  AB10318

The divine gift has placed upon that family's brow a crown adorned with precious jewels whose royal pearls will shine through centuries and ages   AB05162

That illustrious person has made beautiful mention of you in his brief letter, and complete satisfaction with that writing was understood and known  AB04082

Verily, thy father hath ascended unto God, and he is in a praiseworthy station. We have, of a truth, forgiven him as a token of Our grace unto him.   BH03491

This entire tablet is a eulogy and remembrance of Aqa Mirza Hasan-i-'Amu and his descendant, praising their station and steadfastness in the Faith.   AB01235

Prayer commemorating Mulla Husayn and Haji Muhammad-'Ali ibn Husayn Lari, referring to their spiritual qualities and longing to visit the Holy Land   AB11641

This entire tablet is a eulogy for Muhammad-Qabli-'Ali, praising his faithfulness and devotion to Baha'u'llah from the earliest days until his death   BH02934

Verily Your servant Nazim was one who suppressed anger and forgave sins and harm, showing kindness to enemies even if they were the most bitter foes   AB06002

Praise for Varqa as one who spread the Faith, spoke truth in all gatherings, and remained firm in the Covenant until his martyrdom alongside his son   AB01038

"In these days certain news which outwardly causeth sorrow hath arrived, including the ascension of thy mother and her rise to the Supreme Companion."  BH02876

This is an extended eulogy and remembrance for Haji Mirza Muhammad-'Ali Afnan, recounting his noble lineage, spiritual qualities, and life of service.  AB00517

Praise be to God that thou hast shown forth a white hand and hast written the history of the martyrs in most eloquent terms and most wondrous allusions  AB09935

Your noble father was a free cypress in the garden of the love of God and a smiling hundred-petaled rose in the flower garden of the knowledge of God.   AB03211

This entire prayer is a eulogy remembering and praising a martyred believer (son of Ismu'llah al-Asdaq) and his son's subsequent services to the Faith   AB00717

The Ancient Beauty placed a crown upon that family's head whose brilliant jewel will shine forth forever and beam radiantly through centuries and ages.  AB12290

Although that cherished maidservant of God hastened from this mortal world to the eternal realm, yet praise be to God that she left you as her memorial   AB05350

that precious pure-hearted handmaiden has hastened from this mortal realm to the celestial expanse and joined the company of the pure ones and the free.   AB06741

I testify that you have walked the path and entered through the mighty gate and blazed like lamps and attained the greatest ascension on the Promised Day   AB04226

This entire prayer is a eulogy remembering and praising Mulla Ali Baba-yi-Saghir, describing his virtuous qualities and his suffering and death in prison.   AB04170

The ascension of your parents greatly saddened my heart, for Jinab-i-Samandar was my helper and supporter, but as a swift-winged bird he ascended quickly.   AB03391

The entire text is a eulogy for a faithful female believer who has passed away, particularly praising her steadfastness and early recognition of the Cause.   BH02188

They were the daysprings of Divine Love and the fountainheads of His Knowledge...The Horizon of this world was illumined with the light of their countenance  AB01027

O how I bewail this grief to You! Alas, then alas for his ascension to the Supreme Concourse. Never has time seen among the souls of the Shi'ih one like him.  BB00458

He is thirsty, seeking the waters of Thy mercy; he is ill, yearning for healing from Thy bounty; he is eager, hoping to attain the threshold of Thy holiness.  AB11326

The glory of God be upon thee and upon those who are with thee and upon him who hath journeyed unto God and upon his mother who is mentioned before the Throne.  BH10054

visitation tablet that the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - had revealed for he who attained His presence, Ismu'llah al-Asdaq   AB02973

"Everyone is engaged and familiar with some remembrance and thought, but I am intimate with your remembrance. Observe what love and kindness exists between us."  AB11802

His Holiness 'Abdu'llah, from the Most Glorious Kingdom, offers you a thousand praises, for praise be to God, after his passing you have acquitted yourself well  AB10217

For he has ascended in the shadow of the Peerless Beauty to the Kingdom of Glory and has attained to the threshold of the Throne of the Lord, the All-Bountiful.   AB05235

O fragrances of God! Pass by, perfumed with ambergris, over the earth wherein lies one who turned to God and returned to God, tranquil, content and well-pleased.  AB11776

[due to] the ascension and passing of the detached spirit attracted to the Beauty of Truth, Mirza Muhammad, upon him be the glory of his Lord, the Self-Subsisting  AB04943

Great indeed is Thy calamity and profound Thy tragedy. Were life in this first existence eternal, what Thou hast faced in Thy Lord's path would be better with God.  BB00329

News of the ascension and passing of the handmaiden of God, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting - the mother of the martyrs - has caused grief to encompass me.  AB09308

O leaf upon the Tree of Sanctity! Thine illustrious son like unto the birds of holiness sought the loftiest summit and soared to the paradise of the All-Glorious.   AB06969

Upon thee be salutations and praise, O pride of the female kindred of that Blessed Tree whose Root is firmly established and whose Branch reacheth to the heavens!   AB02620

Blessed is the earth that hath been honored by thee, and the precincts that have been ennobled by thy presence, and the air that hath been mingled with thy breath.   BH04156

That bird of the divine garden has built a nest in the branch of the All-Merciful Tree and has made its dwelling and shelter in the palace of the celestial Kingdom.  AB12526

What you had written to Jenab Aqa Seyyed Taqi regarding the details of the ascension of the nightingale of the garden of the Throne, namely Khudabakhsh, was noted.   AB02562

But the fame of the beauty of Joseph is still universal and the honor of the disciples of Christ still endures; their sufferings are the cause of life everlasting.   ABU2840

O glorious martyr Ziya'u'sh-Shari'ih, O renowned martyr in East and West Haji Malik Husayn, O radiant martyr Aqa Muhammad-Baqir, O smiling martyr Aqa Muhammad-Hashim.   AB03046

O noble descendant of that distinguished Siyyid! I have inhaled the fragrance of fidelity from the garden of meanings contained in that luminous and radiant letter...   AB01749

That blessed soul, throughout his life, experienced new afflictions at every moment and endured hardships. He sacrificed his life and demonstrated spiritual qualities.   AB05216

Through the martyr, son of the martyr...to the relatives, kindred and descendants of His Holiness Ismu'llah-i-Asdaq who dwells in the midst of the Most Glorious Kingdom  AB06210

The first fragrance that was diffused from the raiment of the mercy of thy Lord...Glory be upon you and upon those women who have believed in the One, the All-Informed.   BH02946

The passing of His honor Abu'l-Fada'il has grieved and saddened even the denizens of the sacred realm to such a degree that neither pen nor tongue can properly express.   AB05720

By thy life! If thou knew the loftiness of thy brother's station and the exaltation of his rank... He is now in the Most Glorious Kingdom, beholding, seeing, witnessing   AB05955

O martyred one whose son has ascended to the Supreme Companion, and O title of "The Name of God the Most Truthful" - upon both of you be the Most Glorious Glory of God.   AB02124

Thy servant Gushtasp became restless in separation and fell into fever and burning, therefore he took flight that he might become intimate and confidant with the holy ones  AB11362

O descendant of him who ascended unto God, Aqa Mirza Faraj'ullah...Though that bird of the rose-garden of divine knowledge hath winged its flight to the eternal rose-bower   AB05347

We have remembered you and your father with a remembrance that the kingdom of creation cannot rival. The Creator of heaven bears witness to this in this perspicuous Tablet.   BH09645

His Holiness Ismu'llah al-Asdaq, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, and to what extent he served the Sacred Threshold, and how pure, sincere and radiant he was.  AB07895

Upon thee rest the most sublime salutations and the most wondrous praise, O thou glorious soul who hast, under chains and fetters, laid down thy life in the path of thy Lord!   AB07084

that sweet-singing bird flew to the rose garden of the Self-Sufficient Lord and attained his desire, saw the faces of the friends, and drank from the cup of the Lord's favors   AB02524

Godspeedily closed his eyes to this world and hastened to Thy realm...Firuzih came as a beggar to Thy door...And Faramarz was Thy servant...And Rashid drank from Thy spring...  AB07058

Blessed are you, then blessed are you, in this most exalted station and infinite lofty degree. Bravo, bravo to you, O sign of guidance and banner of the Most Glorious Kingdom!   AB03895

A full eulogy for Ahsan al-Hasan Abu'l-Hasan, describing his recognition of the Bab, his steadfastness despite persecution, his service to the Cause, and his eventual passing.   AB00853

Praise and worship are befitting to the Lord Who made those assured souls to walk firmly in the footsteps of their noble father, so that they acquired his nature and character   AB11887

praise and remembrance of Radi'r-Ruh as "a star shining from the Kingdom of mysteries upon the hearts of the righteous, and a luminous lamp in the glass of the Supreme Concourse"  AB12297

Then after that came news of the death of the noble and learned Khalil, my teacher, may God's mercy be upon him... And I had informed some people of my dream before the news came   BB00240

"The peace of God, the One, the Single, be upon thee, O thou just and beloved Sovereign and noble and awesome King, and upon Muhammad and Ali and Fatima and Hassan and the Imams"   BB00574

A hundred thousand ladies of the world remained deprived, while thou hast become privy to divine mysteries and hast become the intimate companion of the birds of God's rose-garden.  AB10035

Ere long you shall observe that in the place of martyrdom, from the effect of that noble one's blood, tulips and sweet basil shall grow, and hyacinth and jasmine shall spring forth   AB04898

This entire text is a moving eulogy for a faithful believer who remained steadfast with Baha'u'llah through exile and imprisonment, serving Him until death in the Most Great Prison.   BH02247

I swear by the Intended One that that essence of being appears in the Concourse on High with such beauty as to be the envy of those near to God and the desire of sincere loved ones.   AB06912

a detailed mention was made of him and a complete visitation prayer was written for the King of Martyrs, the Beloved of Martyrs, the honored Minister and the Noble Brother of Purity   AB00895

I do not know in what words I could describe my longing for my honoured sister. Whatever I may write, my pen falls short. You must express my longing in whatever manner you know how.  AB11602

'Ali hath attained the presence of God, and there hath been ordained for him before the Throne a station that the hands of those who dwell on earth and its dependencies cannot attain   BH05915

Your illustrious grandfather was a sign of guidance and a standard of the Concourse on High, shedding light in Kashan. And in Tehran he was the essence of the love of the All-Merciful  AB12513

May his goodly character bring honor to his lineage, and may the child prove to be the mystery of his father. For if there is no similarity in character, noble descent yields no fruit.  AB07635

Although that distinguished soul is without name or trace in this world, in the realm above his name is renowned throughout all regions, for he was a mighty pillar and a great herald.   AB02535

The honorable one ascended to God, Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'l-?amid had a heart illumined by the lights of certitude and remained firm and steadfast in the religion of God until his last breath  AB02299

The Beloved of Martyrs, your illustrious grandfather, was unique among martyrs and peerless among the blessed. He shines forth like the sun from the horizon of the Most Great Martyrdom.  AB07640

Mehraban Bahram has turned his face from this world and hastened to the heavenly realm, completing his work. At the time of his ascension he chanted "O Glory of God, the Most Glorious!"  AB07307

that precious soul was filled to overflowing with the wine of the love of God, he has been delivered from great hardship in this lower realm and hastened to the zenith of eternal glory   AB04204

O relatives of His Holiness Mulla Muhammad-'Ali, the Martyr, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God! The martyrs in the path of Baha are the brilliant stars in the horizon of heaven.  AB08228

Verily He hath remembered thee and him who hath ascended unto the Supreme Companion, the station which was illumined by the lights of the countenance of his Lord, the Mighty, the Praised.   BH06410

May fragrant breezes encompass your perfumed resting place, and may clouds of forgiveness and pardon rain upon your amber-scented grave, O luminous leaf and handmaiden of the All-Merciful   AB05015

O visitor to the pure grave of Jinab Aqa Seyyed Hossein, their honorable wife Sughra, their children Bibi Taj Monavvar and Alieh, upon them and upon them be the Most Glorious Glory of God!  AB03162

Your novel missive arrived, and grief encompassed me upon learning of the ascension and passing of the handmaiden of God, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling, the mother of the martyrs.  AB09308

Praise be to God that Jinab-i-Sadiq has attained all these stations and achieved these gifts, and today in the heaven of sanctification he is visible and raised up with a face like the sun   AB07242

"The days in Paris are before my eyes and cannot be forgotten. Those few days we were companions passed very pleasantly - they were sweet and full of delight, joyous and full of happiness."  AB03995

O tomb of Jinab Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'l-Husayn Khan! O namesake of 'Abdu'l-Baha! You are 'Abdu'l-Husayn and I am 'Abdu'l-Baha, and these two names, though different in word, point to one meaning   AB04401

This is a Book sent down by the Wronged One to him who believed in God, the All-Protecting, the Self-Subsisting - he who departed from his homeland, advancing toward the Most Exalted Homeland  BH04810

And you are related to that holy soul whose countenance shines like the sun from the dawning-place of the Most Glorious Horizon and whose sanctified fame remains in the divine world forever.   AB07446

You are truly a part of that noble hero and a piece of the liver of that glorious, distinguished one, of his mighty essence and his progeny in whom he takes pride in the Most Glorious Kingdom   AB04614

His Holiness 'Ali-Qabl-Akbar rendered praiseworthy services at the threshold of the One. During his life he guided many souls and endured great hardships and severe trials in the path of God.   AB05874

Upon you be the fragrances of God, and upon you be the salutations of God, and upon you be the prayers of God, and upon you be the blessings of God, and upon you be the glory and praise of God   AB04956

"We have sacrificed in the prison one of the Branches...By My life! In that station he payeth no heed to those on earth, having been seized with the intoxication of the wine of thy Lord's mercy"  BH04158

The glory shining from the horizon of the heaven of My mercy be upon thee and upon every servant who turned and every handmaiden who turned and remembered thy days and visited thy resting place   BH03311

The entire first paragraph eulogizing Samandar as "that holy soul, that bright and brilliant star... That lion of the divine realm [who] spent his life engaged in promoting the clear verses..."   AB01047

By God! When his spirit ascended, the Concourse on High welcomed him and found from him the fragrance of the garment of thy Most Glorious Lord, and they ascended with him to the Supreme Companion  BH04966

Blessed is thy father! At the time of his ascension We perceived from him the fragrance of My love, to which the dwellers of the Most Exalted Paradise in the All-Glorious Companion bear witness.   BH03961

I testify that thou didst remain faithful to the Covenant, that thy face was illumined by the light of the Lamp of the horizons, that through thee were gladdened the eyes of the people of concord  AB09046

"I bear witness that thou wast adorned with the love of God in thy days, in thy rising up and sitting down, and at thy ascension to a station which the tongues of the world are powerless to describe"  BH02400

Indeed, Jamalu'd-Din, the renowned wayfarer in every clime who diffused the fragrance of the love of God, has become a wayfarer in the realms of God which are hidden from the eyes of the veiled ones.  AB11330

When I mention thee I am reminded of that sanctified spirit, thy noble father, and how with utmost joy he drank the supreme cup of martyrdom and gave his life in the path of the Most Glorious Beauty   AB02033

Prayer eulogizing a departed believer who served the Faith, was married under divine grace, responded to the Covenant, and is now being remembered with supplications for divine forgiveness and mercy   AB00471

Concerning Master Husayn, my brother, who hath ascended unto God, the Most Holy, the Most Exalted: The Spirit hath made mention of His servant in the Tablet, and he was indeed remembered by the Spirit  BH09338

Muhammad-Qabli-Rida dwelt for successive years beneath the shade, partaking of the fruits of the Blessed Tree and abiding beneath the pavilions of grandeur, until his days were ended by his ascension   BH03815

His honor Nush found every poison (zahr) sweet (nush) and was the embodiment of reason and intelligence. He spent his days in praise of the Lord of Creation and became the cause of guidance for many.   AB06880

this blessed Branch who turned to Thee, whom Thou didst guide to the Path and lead along the Straight Way. He clung to Thy hem on the Promised Day and received abundantly from Thy glorious outpouring   AB04164

"She was very spiritual. If one were to sit and talk with her from morning to night they would not become tired. She was very unassuming and when she spoke tears would come to the eyes of her hearers."  ABU0816

whenever there was a gathering commemorating the martyrdom and suffering of the Lord of Martyrs, would repeatedly say with great anguish "Would that I had been with thee and attained a mighty triumph!"   ABU1307

That eminent soul was a companion and confidant in Iraq, and a comfort to the sorrowful heart. The heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha had the utmost attachment to him, and his passing and loss had a profound effect.   AB04111

O children of that true friend Jinab-i-Javad who spent his days in the path of God with an illumined heart and spiritual soul. Now you are his remembrances and dear ones in the sight of this yearning one.  AB02502

Though that light of guidance set from that horizon and that star of faithfulness descended from that dawning-place, yet praise be to God that he left behind one like your honor as a memorial and remnant.  AB03070

Truly this departed one was accomplished, outspoken, articulate, calling out the appearance of God's Kingdom to both near and far. Though separation is unbearable, yet unto thy Lord is the ultimate return.  AB07722

O handmaiden of Truth! You are a memorial of Fath-i-A'zam and a descendant of that magnificent spirit. Therefore, be associated with his character and nature and be known for his qualities and attributes.   AB06585

We have sat together many times before, and we shall sit together again in the Kingdom. We shall laugh together very much in those times, and we shall tell of the things that befell us in the Path of God.   ABU3204

"Husayn hath attained the ultimate goal, the most exalted summit, and the Supreme Companion." "he drinketh from the ocean of nearness and reunion, and hath attained that which cannot be mentioned in words."  BH08611

in the end their plush beds will be transformed into course mats and humble dust within a narrow tomb. Their names and titles will be forgotten, and their days of ease and nights of pleasure will pass away.  AB03918

Thou hadst such a father who, from the inception of the Cause and the dawning of the Day-Star of the horizons, drank from the cup of the grace of the King of existence and found no rest in the bed of bounty.  AB12410

I said that a bird of the rose garden would not follow a bird of the dunghill, and a sense of smell perfumed by the fragrances of the Blessed Beauty would surely not take pleasure in the foul odors of hell.   AB03636

This is Thy servant, a branch of the Tree which was uprooted in Thy path by the hands of Thine enemies and was torn out in Thy love by the tempests of hostility that blew from the tyrants among Thy servants   AB02762

This is the Day wherein God maketh mention of one of His handmaidens who served His Most Truthful Name, who detached himself from the world by the command of the King of Names and turned toward the Crimson Spot  BH04301

We make mention of thy father. We testify that he ascended unto God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. At the time of his ascension the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the Cities of Names welcomed him.   BH02089

O descendant of that martyred leader, that luminous star! That manifest light is radiant in the ancient horizon, and that illumined candle is gleaming, shining and brilliant in the glass of the mighty Kingdom.   AB05711

Lord! She was an emblem of Thy love amongst women, a firebrand set ablaze through the heat of Thy love amongst Thy handmaidens. In the dark of night, she never ceased to remember Thee in the depths of her heart.  AB05993

This is Thy servant Ahad who was unique among those drawn nigh, peerless among the sincere ones, and distinguished among the steadfast. He remained firm in the Faith and grew in the garden of Thy good-pleasure.   AB02059

Description of the deceased as "a dove who raised her plaintive cry to the manifest horizon, a thirsty one who yearned to reach Thy vast and mighty ocean, and a moth who sought to circle round Thy luminous lamp"  AB03903

O Essence adorned with the adorning of ornaments of the ornate design of stone and the Presence of Camphor! Upon thee, O Essence of the Presence of Creation and the pure simplicity of the Presence of Origination!  BB00400

In Los Angeles there is the blessed tomb of Mr. Chase. He died a few days before our arrival...I offered a supplication and chanted a Visiting Tablet. Then we scattered flowers on his Tomb and kissed its ground.   ABU0377

Hearts have been consumed, garments rent asunder, and wailing and lamentation have risen up, and cries of sorrow have ascended, when news of the passing of the Most Great Nabil was heard from the furthest shore.   AB02836

References to illustrious family members: "your illustrious grandfather His Holiness Ali Akbar and your loving father His Holiness Ibn-Abhar, your mother the Radiant Flame, your grandmother the Illustrious Gift"   AB11775

The ascension of his honor Samandar (may the spirits of the sincere ones be a sacrifice unto him) has caused the utmost sorrow and regret. Whatever might be mentioned would fail to express what lies in the heart.  AB09845

Blessed is he who maketh mention of them and remembereth their remembrance and presenteth himself before their graves, saying: "I testify that ye have attained unto that which none before you have ever attained."   BH05808

O Mim of Glory! Thou didst ascend with joy and fragrance, while thy loved ones remained in grief...O Ha of the Divine Essence! Thou didst seek the heights of holiness and forsake the world in the path of thy Lord.   BH03402

I testify that thou didst rend asunder the veils and shatter, through the power of certitude, the idols of vain imaginings, and didst turn unto God in days wherein the people turned away from the Lord of all beings.   BH03198

The earthly frame of that embodiment of faithfulness, that essence of purity, that servant of Baha, has become hidden beneath the veil of dust, and his spirit has ascended to the highest horizon and the Abha Kingdom.  AB12593

...the bereaved family of the one who is established upon the seat of truth in the presence of Thy Lord and amongst the Concourse on high, his honour ?adru'?-?udur - upon him rest the glory of God, the All-Glorious.   AB05744

Prayer for forgiveness for those who have ascended to God - Dr. Zia'u'din, the handmaiden of God daughter of Nazim al-Hukama, and Aqa Siyyid Aziz nephew of Nazim al-Hukama, upon them be the Most Glorious Glory of God  AB05934

We wish to make mention of thy son who ascended unto Us and attained unto Our horizon and drank the choice wine of Our Revelation and immersed himself in the ocean of Our mercy which hath preceded all created things.   BH08552

The respected husband was a sacrifice in the path of the Most Great Name. He was [divine], he was enraptured, he was enthralled. Therefore he became the manifestation of the forgiveness and pardon of the All-Merciful.  AB09577

These are the verses of God which have been sent down in remembrance of one of His handmaidens who ascended to the Most Glorious Companion and entered the Garden of Paradise, and whom the mercy of her Lord encompassed.   BH02039

In truth, he ended his days in trials and tribulations in the path of God, drank from the cup of every affliction and tasted the poison of every ordeal until he reached a station that became the envy of the chosen ones   AB11700

Our name "Mahdi" is in the presence of his Lord, the Most High, the Most Glorious, the Mighty, the Bestower, at the Divine horizon, and the lights have shone upon him from the Beauty of God, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving   BH07495

And We make mention of him who hath ascended unto the Supreme Companion. By the life of God! At the time of his ascension the Concourse on High perceived from him the fragrance of the love of his Lord, the Most Glorious.   BH03579

The text eulogizes Mahdi's spiritual qualities and recalls his journey seeking God: "Thou art he who soared in My atmosphere, who spoke My praise, who arose to serve Me, and who bore afflictions and calamities in My path."  BH01695

My honored brother has attained the circumambulating spot of the concourse of those brought nigh, and my honored father dwells in the vicinity of the Mercy unto all the worlds. Both have attained and achieved every bounty.   AB07590

Through pure bounty and "He singles out for His mercy whomsoever He pleases", Thou hast caused these two handmaidens to be associated with that dear one of the Egypt of martyrdom and placed upon our heads the crown of glory.  AB09359

That illustrious person devoted his lifetime to diffusing the divine fragrances and was accepted and praised in the Most Holy Court. Whenever he attained the blessed presence, he became the manifestation of abundant favors.   AB11736

This title is most blessed, for praise be to God that nobility of lineage has been joined with excellence of character. Those souls are children of the heart and spirit of Fath-i-A'zam, not merely children of water and clay.   AB06897

That family and lineage, by virtue of the faith and certitude of his eminence Hakim, are under the protection of the Lord, the All-Bountiful. Therefore, the Sun of Truth has cast the radiance of eternal glory upon that family  AB05706

He attained such a station that his countenance shineth like a brilliant star at the dawning-place of hopes, and his remembrance remains ever-present upon the tongues and lips of those who dwell within the Most Great Pavilion.  AB08946

Your noble grandfather spent his days in life serving in the path of Truth and strove with heart and soul in transcribing the Words. He possessed an illumined heart, a merciful spirit, and pure intentions in the Divine Cause.   AB05163

Prayer for forgiveness on behalf of him who attained the presence of his Lord as a stranger in His path and as one nurtured in the cradle of His servitude, Muhammad Effendi Mustafa, who was immersed in the seas of God's mercy.  AB11807

Your services in this great and accepted commemoration at the threshold of the Lord, the All-Bountiful, are most welcome. The friends should be like this, striving to honor and venerate one another, whether living or deceased.   AB06914

Mr. Mirza Ahmad Qa'ini, that luminous figure and divine soul...reached the shore of the Holy Land with utmost difficulty...had no rest day or night...was immersed in the sea of prayers...demonstrated firmness and steadfastness   AB02116

O son of the martyr! You are the descendant of a martyr; therefore, you must endure severe trials. That illustrious person, the martyr in God's path, is shining and radiant like the morning star in the horizon of eternal glory.  AB09689

Lua was heavenly, divine, merciful, attracted to the divine fragrances. That blessed leaf became the cause of guidance for many, for she had an attracted heart and an eloquent tongue and was occupied with teaching day and night.  AB05128

Now that pure spirit has ascended to the Abha Kingdom, that dove has taken flight to the realm of immortality, and that moth has soared around the lamp of the Supreme Concourse. Thus his place in this lower world remains empty.   AB01881

Indeed in the rose-garden of God that young man was like unto a shrub in its utmost freshness and promising good fruits. Whoever has seen him or heard him has undoubtedly been shocked and grieved at the news of his passing away.  AB02232

That noble soul was in truth a distinguished servant. He rested not for a moment, nor drew a peaceful breath. He devoted his days to the services of the Cause of God. His endeavours were praiseworthy and his recompense abundant.  AB08012

Without doubt you are the shell that contains the hidden pearl and treasured gem, who nurtured that brilliant pearl in your embrace through the spring rains. Therefore you are infinitely respected in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Baha   AB04484

Concerning the holy, fragrant, and luminous resting-place of the illustrious wife--my soul yearneth to inhale the holy savour of its dust--it must be cared for with the utmost respect until the time cometh when it shall be exalted.  AB06024

This entire Tablet is a eulogy remembering martyrs and holy souls associated with the land of Sad (Isfahan), including "the two Husayns", "al-Kazim and those with him" and "al-Ashraf" who sacrificed their lives in the path of God.   BH03085

Make this respected person the chief of martyrs and the spiritual leader of the spiritual ones. Grant him a crown and diadem in the Abha Kingdom and place the crown of eternal glory upon his head, for he is deserving of this grace.   AB05111

Poor Haji Mirza Hassan has found peace at last. He was a very zealous man, steadfast and firm in the Blessed Cause...He was truly zealous. During his lifetime he did everything in his power to serve the Cause of God and the friends.  ABU1253

That family has been divine from the Day of Alast - they took up the cup of the love of God, drank from it and gave others to drink... All of this is due to the blessing of the sincerity of the respected grandfather and noble father   AB03400

O Badi', son of him who has ascended to the Supreme Companion...The Most Exalted Pen hath testified for him to that which nothing created in the kingdom of creation can equal, as doth testify unto this He with Whom is the Mother Book.  BH04902

When that blessed name was read, such a state overtook me that I involuntarily began writing a reply, although I had absolutely no time. This is due to the blessing of the blessed name of that martyr in the path of the Beauty of Abha.  AB01688

We have mentioned thee before, and thy father who hath ascended to the Supreme Companion, and We have revealed for him that from which the fragrance of the loving-kindness of his Lord, the Compassionate, the All-Bountiful, is diffused.  BH07244

The passing of his honor Adib and the ascension of that beloved one caused intense grief. Show much love and kindness to the survivors of that illustrious person. Console them. Soon prayers and a visitation tablet will be sent for him.   AB00999

Walk thou in the footsteps of thy father, for he witnessed such evidences from thy Creator and beheld such signs from thy Lord as no eye hath ever seen, and attained that which hath shone forth from this holy, mighty and wondrous Scene.   BH03455

Gudarz the Persian was asleep and awakened, was unconscious and became conscious...He was God-seeking, God-speaking, of goodly character and radiant countenance, until he went to Qazvin and became intimate and confidant with the friends   AB05410

The deceased, his honor Mr. Chase, was a blessed soul; he was a holy reality. His station in this life was not known. Yesterday I took a special trip and visited his tomb. At the time of visiting his tomb I found wonderful spirituality.   ABU1693

Praise be to God that, since thy revered father has ascended to the precincts of the Most Great Mercy in the Abha Kingdom, thou art associated with the Blessed Threshold and art successful and confirmed in serving at the Divine Threshold   AB05554

O Husayn, who was martyred in the path of God, his Creator! In the Name of our Lord, the Most Invincible, the Most Holy, the Most Glorious! Blessed art thou, for God hath named thee the first pillar of the two Names derived from this Name   BH03117

His Honor Aga Reza and His Honor Aga Mahmoud were most sincere. They were serving day and night. In reality they accomplished such services that cannot be duplicated by another human being, viz;- it is beyond the power of human endurance.   ABU0077

O My handmaiden and My leaf! Thou hast been mentioned in the presence of the Wronged One and hast not been forgotten. Today the glance of loving-kindness hath been directed toward the steadfast handmaidens of God, and will continue to be so.  BH07343

Remember thou the time when thou wert the seat of the Throne and His radiance was manifest and evident from thy walls and doors. How many sanctified and tranquil souls gave up their lives in their love for thee and sacrificed their spirits.   BH03564

We have remembered thy father with a remembrance whereby the Concourse on High and they who circle round My mighty Throne do remember him, and We have adorned him with the ornament of forgiveness as a bounty from thy Lord, the All-Merciful.   BH02658

O son of Nabil who ascended to the Kingdom of his Glorious Lord! May God assist you in all things and make you a brilliant sign and a radiant star in the horizon of possibility. Ask God that you may be a worthy memorial to that noble father   AB06485

Indeed, he sacrificed his soul for Prague and offered his body as an oblation for the friends. That pure and holy soul ascended to the luminous Kingdom, that spotless spirit passed beyond the spheres and became radiant in the eternal world.   AB01705

Glory, praise, radiance, prayer and peace be upon you, O fire of the love of God and light of the Kingdom of God and ray of the bounty of God, the unique pearl in the ocean of God's mercy and the mighty lion in the forests of God's guidance!   AB02852

O unique, peerless, and glorious martyr! I salute your pure dust and your holy, blessed, and fragrant resting place through the holy breaths that waft over you from the Supreme Concourse and the lights that fall upon you from the Abha Kingdom   AB03022

Your esteemed father was a mine of mysteries and a dawning-place of lights. He was near to the Most Holy Court and was tested and proven in faith and certitude. The gaze of God's favor encompassed him from every direction with complete bounty.   AB05346

Verily Your servant Akbar after Ali has believed in You and Your verses, acknowledged Your power and sovereignty, was attracted by the spirit of Your fragrances and enkindled by the fire of Your love while in the prime of life and bloom of youth  AB00847

I testify that you were born of pure loins and sanctified wombs, were nursed at the breast of grace, grew up under the protection of divine care, were raised in the lap of providence, reached maturity in the sheltering shade of the majestic Tree  AB00437

O My Most Exalted Pen! Make mention of him who is related to thee and who, among thy Afnans, was the first to attain the presence of his Lord, the Most High, the All-Glorious. He attained the presence when the people were in manifest remoteness.   BH05988

O companion of he who attained to the Supreme Friend, His Holiness Nabil-i-Akbar...I swear by the Educator of existence that that master of the people of prostration has lit his countenance like a candle in the gathering of the Supreme Concourse   AB04030

O thou whom God hath aided to follow in the footsteps of thy glorious uncle and unique and peerless ancestor! 'Abdu'l-Baha's utmost desire is that that illustrious family may become radiant and that lineage may become the dawning-place of lights.   AB05454

The Supreme Pen makes mention of the people of that household. By My life! The departed and blessed one who was named Muhammad-'Ali, upon him be My glory and mercy, and those related to him have ever been and are remembered in the Most Holy Court.   BH07226

Praise be to God, that handmaiden of God was cherished at the Threshold of Oneness and was cultured and distinguished. She hastened from the dusty realm to the sacred plain and departed from this world of darkness to the realm of the All-Merciful.   AB04307

O loved ones of God! Praise be to God that those pure souls were freed from the dusty world and joined the angels of the celestial realm, meaning they acquired heavenly attributes and found their way to the private chamber of the All-Merciful Lord.   AB07184

I testify that you showed patience in tribulation, remained steadfast in hardship and trials, drank the cup of cruelty, and became the target of arrows of accusations in those regions - all out of passionate love for God, seeking God's good pleasure  AB11747

He was a lion roaring in Thy thickets, a dove cooing in Thy gardens, a spirit attracted by Thy fragrances, a tongue speaking Thy praise, a heart melting in Thy love, a pulsing artery in the body of creation, and a cup brimming with the wine of faith.  AB00982

You are the memento of that illustrious martyr - how could I forget? Whenever I write to you, I remember that noble soul and become extremely affected. Indeed, most times while writing letters, such longing overcomes me that my eyes fill with tears.   AB00703

Praise be to God, you have traversed a great distance, reached the intended destination, arrived at the Ka'bah of existence, entered the Most Remote Temple, circled the sacred precincts of the Most Great, and perfumed your nostrils with the holy dust.   AB02733

Since that thirsty fish hath returned to the ocean, and that yearning bird hath taken flight to the rose-garden of the resplendent horizon... that pure light hath hastened to the divine realm. In truth he was a faithful servant and a harmonious friend.  AB07999

In mourning and lamentation for his holiness the Afnan of the Divine Lote-Tree, his honor Aqa Siyyid Mirza, you have spoken words and penned an elegy, giving full measure of eloquence and rhetoric. It was most novel and elegant, touching wounded hearts.  AB07618

O Lord, verily, these two were evident signs of Thy love and conspicuous words on the Tablets of Thy Oneness. They were two sanctified souls amongst Thy friends, two radiant stars on horizon of faithfulness and certitude of the heaven of Thy servitude.   AB05019

Ismu'llah's tomb is in Hamadan. Many a Tablet was revealed for him by the Supreme Pen of Baha'u'llah, including a special Visitation Tablet after his passing. He was a great personage, perfect in all things. Such blessed beings have now left this world.  AB00002

O first light that shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of the loving-kindness of the Lord of all beings, and first word uttered by the Tongue of Grandeur, and first fragrance that wafted from the garment of My Most Great Name amongst the nations!   BH01419

The salutation that shines from the Most Glorious Horizon and the praise that perfumes the highest heaven with the fragrance of musk be upon you, O flame of the fire of the love of God and ember of the fires of yearning and passion for the Beauty of God.  AB05006

Blessed is he who remembereth thy days and through thee draweth nigh unto God, thy Lord, the Lord of all who are in the heavens and on earth. O Salih, forget not thy loved ones in thy glorious station and thy blessed, exalted and manifest dwelling-place.  AB10241

Description of Imam Husayn's final moments and noble character: "Fear God, and shed not the blood through which the pillars of the Throne are shaken, and the foundations of Paradise do tremble, and the hearts of them that are nigh unto God are consumed!"   BH02270

And We make mention in this station of the handmaiden who hath ascended unto the Supreme Companion, and We have remembered her with that which God hath made a light and a mercy for her. Verily His grace hath encompassed all existence, both seen and unseen.  BH06508

From early childhood, that youth showed such signs of the flame of the fire of the love of God in his countenance as to cause amazement. What an eloquent and articulate tongue he had! How sweet-spoken he was! How graceful he was! What beauty he possessed!   AB01829

And We make mention at this time of him who hath ascended unto God, the Lord of the worlds. We have previously mentioned him in verses wherein the Fire appeared in the trees and the Tree spoke as it spoke unto Moses, son of 'Imran, on the Mount of Knowledge   BH04114

O ye who remain of that orb which dawned in the horizon of the Kingdom of Abha! Whenever I write to any one of you, my spirit becomes fragrant and my soul and consciousness are filled with honey and sugar, for mention of that embodied spirit flows from my pen  AB07229

He was the comfort of the loved ones, a fortress for the chosen ones, and a shelter for the mystics in the land of Iraq, deriving light from the radiance of the East and drinking from a brimming cup overflowing with the wine of Thy love throughout all regions  AB03899

"Among them was Thy servant, slave and attendant Ja'far, who rubbed his face and forehead in the dust of lowliness in humility before Thy greatness, in devotion to Thy sovereignty, in supplication to Thy kingdom, and in attachment to the hem of Thy grandeur."  AB12123

That pure soul was self-sacrificing in love for the face of the Beloved, and like an ocean was surging and billowing. He constantly yearned for that divine altar of sacrifice and always longed to offer himself as a sacrifice for the Beauty of the All-Merciful   AB06757

His Honor Khalil hastened to the glorious Kingdom and sought refuge in the shelter of the Most Great Mercy. He was freed from this transient dust-heap and soared to the pure world. He gained freedom from worldly darkness and became immersed in divine radiance.  AB04449

He heard Thy call and believed in Thee and Thy verses, confirmed Thy words, his heart overflowed with joy at Thy glad-tidings. He arose to serve Thee and stood firm in servitude to Thee, bore every affliction in Thy path and endured every hardship in Thy love.  AB00478

O ye who are related to him who hath attained the presence of the Glorious Companion! Although that well-favored one at the threshold of Grandeur hath hastened unto the precincts of unsurpassed mercy, he hath left you as a heritage to each of the friends of God.  AB09518

His Holiness Minshadi was in truth a resplendent garden whose sweet fragrance was diffused throughout the East and the West. Now that garden hath been transported to the eternal realm, that its sweet perfume may make fragrant the nostrils of the spiritual world.  AB08019

We bear witness that he turned to the Supreme Horizon in days wherein the hearts of the servants were troubled and the feet of the mystics did slip. He was, at the time of his ascension, adorned with the ornament of the love of his Lord, the Mighty, the All-Wise.  BH03044

The family of His Holiness who ascended unto God, the honored Aqa Siyyid Muhammad-Rida, are near to the Divine Threshold. Convey my greetings and praise to [list of names]. Those who are related to His Holiness who ascended unto God are very dear to 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB09288

O Zaynu'l-'Abidin! The Lord of the worlds maketh mention of thee from the Most Great Scene, that this mention may be a companion unto thee, a light unto thee, a glory unto thee, an honor unto thee, and a treasure unto thee in every world of the worlds of thy Lord.   BH03929

Your noble brother has traversed the realm of possibility...He never rested, never drew an easy breath, never sought comfort, never found repose, never settled down...until he ascended to the horizon of glory and became the object of praise of the Concourse on High  AB12564

I testify that My servant Baqir hath ascended on the wings of love and certitude unto his Lord, the All-Merciful. Upon him be My glory and the glory of them that are in the highest Paradise and the glory of those who circle round the Throne at eventide and at dawn.   BH10773

Your steadfastness in loyalty and your firmness in faithfulness made this condolence a consolation to hearts grieving the loss of this genius of the age and scholar of the horizons. By your life, he was the greatest loss and most noble deceased one in this new age.   AB07031

We make mention at this time of the handmaiden who hath ascended unto God, the Mighty, the Beautiful. We have ordained for her from Our Most Exalted Pen that which bringeth joy to all eyes, and have sent down for her that which attracteth the hearts of the righteous.  BH02932

Marzuban has abandoned the earthly realm and hastened to the boundless world. He had no hope except in You and planted nothing in the field of his heart except the seeds of Your love. He grew weary of life in the world of dust and soared to the Kingdom of mysteries.   AB07065

Thy father's title was "Light" and his disposition was one of attraction to the Beauty of Manifestation. Through divine love he possessed a radiant countenance and a joyous heart. He spent his days occupied in the remembrance of God and enkindled with the divine fire.  AB08905

A tribulation has struck that has demolished the edifice of patience and has laid waste the towers of joy...O regret that the mighty pillar has fallen, the glorious banner has been reversed, the lofty sail has been furled, and the fires of joy have been extinguished!   AB01863

Hearts have overflowed with sorrows and tears have streamed in grief from this deprivation when ears heard the bearer of sad tidings announce the death of Thy servant Muhammad Nazim, who has left the depths of dust and whose spirit has soared to the highest paradise.   AB02325

Such was his condition, when he died. Many and many a time, Baha'u'llah was heard to express His satisfaction with Ustad Isma'il. Blessings hemmed him round, and the eye of God was on him. Salutations be unto him, and praise. Upon him be the glory of the All-Glorious.  AB00002

Rif'at was clever, this young child was the lamp of the gathering and the sweet-singing bird of that dwelling. She would recite the verses and chant the words with the most wondrous melodies. She was like an articulate nightingale, in harmony with the Concourse on High.  AB07986

Among these realities is this noble Branch, this great Name, this manifest Light, possessed of wondrous character and radiant countenance. O Lord! Thou didst cause him to hear Thy call, to behold Thy beauty, to be guided to Thy path, and to be honored with Thy presence.  AB00970

He had a living heart and a becoming form. His countenance was moon-like and his nature musk-scented. He was a sapling of utmost freshness and delicacy, with a sweet appearance. His heart was enamored with the Heavenly Beloved and his soul yearned for the divine Kingdom.   AB02960

O descendants of His Holiness Mawzun and Siraju'sh-Shuhada, those two precious souls are alive through the breath of the All-Merciful and are intimate companions. In the Kingdom of holiness they chant the verses of the supreme gift and encourage you to follow their example   AB03621

For his holiness Vahid hath this been revealed, he who beheld the Countenance of God, the All-Glorious, the Almighty, and who in His path sacrificed himself, arose to serve His Cause and quaffed his fill of the draught of certitude from the Hand of his Lord, the Munificent.   BH02591

That bountiful grove, verdant garden, and fragrant bower adorned with Divine good-pleasure hath ascended unto the Kingdom of Abha. With the rose, myrtle, hyacinth, and jasmine of perfections, he was a sublime heaven and a lofty, light-giving paradise of the Luminous Horizon.  AB04103

He arose to guide humanity, healed the deaf, the dumb and the blind, and brought the dead to life through the spirit of guidance. He served Thy Most Exalted Threshold through the confirmation of the All-Powerful One. He spoke in praise and called to Thy Most Supreme Kingdom.  AB00688

That nightingale has flown to the most glorious rose garden and that yearning one has hastened to the assembly where the Luminary of the horizons manifests itself. That one who was thirsting for the sweet waters of the Euphrates has entered the eternal ocean of divine favors.  AB08953

"O sign of steadfastness and banner of firmness, Mirza Taraz! Praise be to God, he is harmonious and in tune. Like the spiritual spring breeze, he traversed every region and territory of Iran and gave new life to souls. Now he has reached the proximity of the Forgiving Lord."  AB07221

Know ye the station of your father, for he is among those who emigrated unto God and attained His presence and heard His most wondrous, most beautiful, mighty and invincible call, and succeeded in serving the Cause in His days when every distant polytheist turned away from it.   BH06993

Then the Blessed Beauty summoned me and asked why I was not writing to him. "Write to him." So I wrote him a reply with this meaning: "O honorable Varqa, have you not heard the call of the Supreme Concourse? Then why are you waiting and expecting the sound of a mosquito?" etc.   ABU1922

"Upon thee be the glory of God, O thou who hast recognized God and turned unto Him when most of the servants turned away from Him. I testify that thou didst fulfill the Covenant of God and His Testament, and didst attain unto the days when most of mankind were heedless thereof."  BH06146

I testify that thou didst fulfill God's Covenant and His Testament, and didst circle round His Cause, and didst achieve the most great steadfastness when the limbs of all names did quake with fear. Thus doth the Lord of all creation make mention of thee in this wondrous Tablet.   BH00411

Verily I received your eloquent letter, whose composition was wonderful. It was evidence of your firmness in the Covenant and your attraction to the Beloved of all regions. It demonstrated your great sorrow and intense grief over the death of that glorious personage, Abu'l-Fadl.  AB07830

During his whole life, thy great father followed the path of salvation and conducted himself in an upright manner. He was favored by the glance of providence and was the object of the bounties and bestowals of God until the moment he ascended unto the unseen Kingdom of existence.   AB07448

Blessed be the loins from which you emerged, and the womb from which you were born, and the breast from which you suckled, and the bosom in which you were raised, and the house in which you dwelt, and the earth on which you reclined, and the resting place in which you were buried   AB05014

O honored cousin, precious memento of that embodied spirit and that manifest light, my revered uncle! He was infinitely kind to Abdul-Baha. In the days of childhood when I was in that village he showed much affection and association. The sweetness of his love is still in my taste.  AB00937

Verily, those near unto God wandered through deserts and wilderness, mountains and valleys, seeking fragments of your bodies that perchance they might inhale from them the fragrance of the love of God, your Creator, your Beloved, your Goal, your Worshipped One, and your Quickener.   BH01271

Verily Thy servant...who was honored in the beginning of the Revelation by arriving at the Fortress wherein Thy blessed servants took refuge in the vicinity of the favors of that luminous Countenance...and who bore every hardship and calamity, every affliction and trial in Thy path  AB12208

Today a most painful news was received; its effect was agonizing and its anguish very harrowing. Truly I say Mirza Abu'l-Fadl was a glorious personage. From every standpoint he was peerless. It is a rare thing to find a person perfect from every direction, but he was such a person.  ABU1025

He was truly a great personage - noble and distinguished, eminent and excellent. He was an expounder of proofs and evidences, and an establisher of divine arguments and demonstrations. He trained children who today are distinguished, independent, and intimate with divine mysteries.   AB11661

They who are related to thee, who have exchanged this transient world for the everlasting realm, are immersed in the ocean of God's mercy. At the time of their ascension, the word of forgiveness shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of the favor of the Desired One of the worlds.  BH11217

That person suffered severe trials in this path. Each day he drank a draught from the cup of tribulation. No evening did he find rest in his bed, and no morning did he seek comfort of heart or repose of soul. He was ever the target of trials and the mark of the arrow of persecution.   AB11924

When I look at you, I see in you the joy of the loved ones who attained the Supreme Companion, His Holiness Aqa Siyyid 'Ali, and the essence of faithfulness who entered the Most Glorious Kingdom, Aqa Ghulam-Husayn Khan, and I smell from you the sweet and fragrant breaths of their love.  AB03505

Your esteemed father hastened to the presence of the Luminary of the horizons in the Iraq days and spent some time under His blessed shade, and he was a companion to this servant day and night...He returned to his homeland, and from there to Tehran, and from Tehran to the endless world.  AB02727

Thou hadst written of the passing of that faithful and assured handmaiden of God, Mrs. Hearst. Though unknown now, in future her mention shall be exalted and her fame shall spread. Mary Magdalene in her time had neither name nor fame - she was but a village woman. Now behold her renown!  AB00537

We have deposited his luminous remains in a land called Izmir. Verily it is God's trust in that blessed and wondrous spot. Blessed is he who draweth nigh unto it and visiteth it with that which hath been revealed from the Pen of his Lord's Revelation, the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.   BH04653

Convey yearning greetings to his honor Aqa Siyyid Baqir, that remembrance of that brilliant light... Likewise to that exemplar of the unitarians, that pure spirit Aqa Siyyid 'Ali-Muhammad, and also to that illustrious descendant of that luminous temple who has ascended to the divine realm   AB01103

As for Mr. Rashti who has attained the presence of his Lord - he was truly among the sincere and detached ones. He strove to exalt the Word of God night and day and expended his efforts privately and publicly. May God elevate his station and cause him to dwell in the midst of His paradise.   AB02448

O you who are a remembrance of that brilliant star! Now that you have reached that region and picked flowers and herbs from that garden of love, you must hasten to Bukhara on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha and visit the fragrant shrine of His Holiness the learned Nabil, upon him be the Glory of God.  AB06986

This honored soul is near in the Divine Court and immersed in the ocean of lights in the world of mysteries. His worth is not known now but soon it will become known. This noble person placed a crown upon your heads whose brilliant and radiant jewels will shine throughout centuries and ages.  AB02415

Though that illustrious branch was severed from the garden of contingent being, yet it became joined to the divine Lote-Tree and flourished fresh and verdant in the garden of the placeless. It was watered from the spring of Tasnim and stirred by breezes from the gardens of the Abha Kingdom.   AB00806

Then rejoice within thyself that thy father hath attained unto the presence of God and his spirit hath ascended to a station whereof the knowledge of the knowers is cut off. The maidens of Paradise shall now serve him and the denizens of the Supreme Concourse shall find solace in his company.  BH11729

During his lifetime he arose to serve those near the Divine Threshold and was confirmed in servitude at the Sacred Court. You who are the honored spouse of that pure soul should live according to his way and conduct so that you may become the cause of his joy and delight in the eternal world.  AB08173

Your esteemed grandfather possessed a heart full of lights, and a musk-scented spirit, and a soul made joyful by the bounty of the Lord. He was mentioned in the Most Holy Court and was accepted at the Blessed Threshold. From the purified mouth, mention of that pure soul was heard repeatedly.   AB06985

That luminous personage and manifestation of the All-Merciful was a great sign and mighty standard in the Supreme Concourse. Throughout his life he drew not a breath except in the good-pleasure of the Lord of Signs and had no desire save servitude at the threshold of the Source of evidences.   AB03333

O Ali, verily We made mention of thee before, and We make mention of My handmaiden who hath ascended to the Most Glorious Horizon and the Supreme Companion. We make mention of her with a remembrance whose fragrance shall endure as long as My most beautiful names and supreme attributes endure.   BH04575

Know thou, O my leaf, that the Word of Victory hath ascended to the Supreme Companion, and We were well-pleased with him. This Tablet beareth witness to that, and beyond it the Mother Book. He was among those who emigrated in the path of God until he came to rest beneath the shade of the Throne  BH05076

Thy noble father was a lamp of light and one near to the threshold of the Lord. He was constant in service and perpetual in servitude. He was Ghulam-Husayn, renowned throughout East and West. The Blessed Beauty was well-pleased with him, and he was the object of praise of the Concourse on High.  AB08944

Grieve not for thy father. He hath quaffed the choice wine of reunion and found intimacy with Him when he was in the land of Ta. Thy Lord is verily the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Be thou assured that he hath ascended unto God and attained what was ordained for him in My most exalted Kingdom.  BH07772

This is a day wherein the Tree of Utterance hath spoken at the heart of creation concerning that which hath appeared in the realm of origination and that which hath befallen its branches. Sorrows have encompassed Me by reason of your grief, as witnessed by the Divine Lote-Tree and its branches.   BH03279

His Holiness Ismu'llah-i-Asdaq, from the beginning of his life until his passing, night and day like a night-illumining candle was bright and burning in the gathering of teaching, and was one of the greatest pillars of promotion. Therefore he attained an important station in the Kingdom of God.   AB01302

Your noble father was a lamp of lights and near to the threshold of the Lord. He was steadfast in service and constant in servitude. He was Ghulam-Husayn, renowned throughout East and West. The Blessed Beauty was well-pleased with him and he was the recipient of praise from the Supreme Concourse.  AB08944

Mr. Chase was a man who will never be forgotten. His value is not now known, but will be in the future. Throughout the Orient his name was well known and they all longed to see him. Now, praise God, Mr. Chase did yield fruit. Mr. Chase was heavenly. Mr. Chase was spiritual. Mr. Chase was radiant.   ABU1194

I bear witness that thou hast believed in God and in His signs, and answered His Call, and turned unto Him, and held fast unto His cord, and clung to the hem of His grace, and fled thy home in His path, and chosen to live as a stranger, out of love for His presence and in thy longing to serve Him.   BH05264

"At the time of his ascension, the Concourse on High perceived from him the fragrance of My love, the Mighty, the Well-Beloved, and the hand of grace admitted him to a station whereof the pens of the world are powerless to make mention. To this beareth witness He with Whom is the Preserved Tablet."  BH01140

The splendor of God rest upon you, O Dayspring of faithfulness from God, Creator of heaven! I testify that through you the city of servitude was adorned, its banners were raised, its gates were decorated, and its birds sang. I testify that you turned to God and voiced His praise among His servants.  BH02408

O brilliant faces! O heavenly souls! O celestial severed heads! O orbs of oneness! O divine soldiers! Blessed are ye! Well done! Glory be upon you! Blessed are you for what you have done. Upon you be His Glory. Upon you be His Praise. Upon you be the assistance and the bounty of your Supreme Lord.   AB01514

You traversed valleys, hills and seas, and attained to the blessed spot radiant with lights, and fell upon the white sacred threshold, and longed for martyrdom in the love of Baha, and hastened to the scene of supreme martyrdom with such rapture that the faces in the Concourse on high were illumined  AB01998

Thou hast created a luminous essence, a divine reality, a radiant jewel, and a brilliant pearl, and made it to shine with lights, to radiate with signs, to unveil mysteries... he became renowned among people for finest character and noble lineage. He illumined the horizons with the light of guidance   AB01780

referring to 'Abdu'l-Vahhab-i-Shirazi, said: Before he left the prison to go to the altar of divine sacrifice, he came first and placed his head on Baha'u'llah's feet and kissed them. Having embraced all the friends, he hastened to the plain of sacrifice, dancing and snapping his fingers in ecstasy.   ABU2152

His guide on the path was Thy verses of unity shining forth from this blessed, holy and supreme Spot. He was honored at the luminous Holy Threshold and covered his face and hair with the dust of this earth which Thou hast ever made the center of Thy greatest signs and the dawning-place of Thy lights   AB00070

Today the birds of the holy gardens, the houris of Paradise, the Concourse on High, and the dwellers of the Most Glorious Kingdom are engaged in praising and extolling the self-sacrifice of that yearner for the realm above with the most wondrous melodies. Blessed is he and excellent is his final abode!  AB08023

He was clear-sighted, for he was confirmed in service at the Sacred Threshold and assisted in servitude at the Court of Oneness. He was firm and steadfast in the Covenant and Testament of the All-Merciful, and until his final breath and ascension he remained stable and upright like a mountain of iron.   AB07383

O descendant of Abraham! Truly you are from the family of that noble one and from the lineage of that radiant sun. The musk-scented fragrance of Khalil's nature emanates from the garment of your character, and the brilliant signs of Abrahamic inheritance are evident in your steadfastness and firmness.   AB04774

He was a tree bearing fruits, and a Lote-Tree bearing praise and remembrance. O My loved ones in Taft! Recognize the exalted station and make mention of it through that which hath been sent down from My Most Exalted Pen. Blessed is he who loved him and made mention of him before and after his ascension.  BH03410

O Jalal! He Who is the All-Glorious remembers you in this station, around which circle the denizens of the highest Paradise and the Daysprings of Names at eventide and at dawn. Blessed are you and your brother, and upon your mother and your sister, and upon those who believed in God on the Day of Return.   BH09646

During successive years she circled around the court of her Lord, and lauded Him in her anthems of praise, both in verse and prose, for which she gained the ornament of His acceptance, and received the light of His divine good-pleasure, as a token of heavenly grace from God, the Lord of this wondrous Day.   BH02098

That bird of the meadow of guidance hath hastened to the rose-garden of reality, and he hath left these companions as his heritage that after his return to the divine homeland, ye might irrigate the field he hath sown, arrange the flowers of true understanding in the boulevard of his hopes and aspirations   AB07227

Throughout his life his only aim was to serve the friends of God, and his supreme desire was to render assistance to the divine threshold. Through the grace and favor of God, he attained this cherished wish, was received and glorified amongst the Concourse on high, and drew nigh unto the Court of Grandeur.  AB00885

I swear by the Sun of Truth that thy mention hath been inscribed in God's Book by the Most Glorious Pen, and thou art remembered before the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the Most Exalted Paradise, for thou didst witness and hear in His path what the devoted women of former ages witnessed and heard.   BH05683

O noble man and distinguished master, descendant of the righteous and offspring of the virtuous. I testify that you believed in God and His verses, affirmed His words, manifested His evidences, called the people to guidance, gave them to drink of the wine of faithfulness, guided them to the Supreme Kingdom   AB02178

I testify, O my God and the God of all created things, my Lord and the Lord of all contingent beings, that Thy servant Ahmad, upon whom be Thy glory and Thy mercy, believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and turned toward the heaven of Thy Cause in Thy earliest days when most of Thy creation turned away from Thee.  BH07317

Consider how much 'Abdu'l-Baha cherishes the faithfulness of your illustrious father in the path of the Gracious Lord. He endured every affliction and trial, drank deadly poison as though it were pure water, diffused the divine fragrances, and finally passed away to the sanctified Kingdom in sorrowful exile.   AB06612

Truly both nobility of lineage and excellence of character are combined in you, and you are descended from the spiritual essence of that one ascended unto God, and emerged from his earthly nature. For you have taken up his path and found his way, and "the son is the secret of his father" has become manifest.   AB06362

News arrived from the palace that Aqa Baji has ascended from this mortal dust heap to the eternal heights of glory. After enduring eighty years of hardship and attaining to service, in her final days she escaped from the difficulties of physical realms and pitched her tent in the rose garden of divine mercy.   AB02414

I testify that, verily, thou hast believed in God, thou hast become assured of the Verses of God, thou hast trusted in the appearance of the Kingdom of God, thou hast turned unto God, thou hast kept firm in the Covenant of God, thou hast served the Cause of God, thou hast endeavored to promote the Word of God  AB03065

Verily this is a servant of Thine, who did believe on Thee and in Thy signs; verily he hearkened to Thy summons, turned to Thy Kingdom, humbled himself at Thy holy threshold, was possessed of a contrite heart, arose to serve Thy cause, to spread Thy fragrances, to promote Thy word, and to expound Thy wisdom.   ABU1818

O servant! Rejoice within thyself that thou wast confirmed in the good-pleasure of God and the recognition of His Self, and wast content with His good-pleasure until thou didst sacrifice thy spirit in His path. And verily We were with thee when thou didst ascend unto God with manifest humility and submission.   BH03150

This glorious soul was a luminous star, a bright lamp, a blessed and fruitful tree, a billowing ocean of knowledge, a fountain of everlasting life, and well-established in the Ark of Salvation. From the beginning of his childhood, he lived a life of utmost piety and spent all his days in acquiring perfections.  AB00726

His honor "he who attained the presence of his Lord," Jinab-i-Muntaha Aqa Mirza Mahdi, the pure brother, truly arose as he should to servitude and became the cause of exalting the Word of God in all regions. Like a life-giving breeze he traveled everywhere, was a divine herald and bearer of infinite bounties.   AB00630

As Shah-Siyavush was like an angel and a divine messenger, a devoted servant at the threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - therefore, after his ascension he became a guardian at the threshold of the Most Glorious Kingdom and was numbered among the true servants.  AB09806

Nabil-i-Akbar who attained Thy presence in Iraq in the gathering of divine manifestation, and was blessed with witnessing the light of effulgence, and who associated with this servant in love and harmony, and who in those days avoided the source of hypocrisy, the tyrant of Naraq, and remained firm in the Covenant  AB01980

"She hastened from this mortal world to the divine world and soared from this temporal realm to the expanse of the Kingdom...I hope her noble son may seek the Path wherein his mother walked, and may become better and more illustrious; nay, rather, the lights of his love may also take effect in his grand parents."  AB01262

These two are servants who believe in You and Your verses, who are certain of Your words, who acknowledge Your sanctity, who affirm the oneness of Your Essence. They have borne every hardship in Your path and endured every calamity in their love for You, and suffered in their days for their faith in Your uniqueness.  AB04235

May greetings of mercy and good-pleasure be upon your radiant dust, your white spot, your purified grave and your illumined tomb, O namesake of Glory, concealed in devotion, manifest in faithfulness, trusted one of the chosen ones, pillar of the pious ones, exemplar of martyrs and support of the people of sacrifice   AB03047

Abu'l-Fadl served humanity until his last breath and laid a foundation that will endure forever. A thousand regrets that this bright candle was outwardly extinguished, but it was illumined in the gathering of the supreme realm. And praise be to God that he left behind traces that will radiate light forever and ever.   AB03227

We make mention of thy father, through whom the lips of mystical knowledge smiled in all creation and who attained the presence of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. We make mention of him with that which nothing on earth can equal, and We remember him throughout the duration of the kingdom and the heavenly kingdom.   BH02690

The handmaiden of God, soaring in the boundless atmosphere, has returned to her Lord and arrived at her Master and reached the desired Rose. She has enjoyed the bestowed gift and attained the presence of her Lord and overflowed with her desires and achieved what she yearned for in the vicinity of the Most Great Mercy.   AB05183

Indeed that respected person served the Word of God and endured many hardships. His services in the Kingdom of God are recorded in the eternal ledger and are mentioned in the Supreme Concourse. They will never be forgotten. Soon they will yield magnificent results and become the cause of joy and honor for that family.   AB03754

He created thee from a father who believed in God and His signs, who was attracted by His fragrances, who remained firm in His Covenant, who hastened to His holy spot, who circumambulated the sanctuary of the concourse of the near ones, who pressed his forehead and covered his face with the dust of His divine threshold.  AB09000

May the shining light and brilliant radiance from the Supreme Horizon envelop the soil that contains your pure and purified grave... The eyes of the people of the Most Glorious Kingdom have wept, and tears have flowed from the eyelids of the people of the exalted scenes of grandeur upon the fragrant soil of your shrine   AB02636

That one who ascended to the Supreme Companion attained the presence of the Promised One at the Sinai of Manifestation on the day of the appearance of the light and flame of the Mount. He beheld the lights of the Most Great Luminary and the honored brilliant Star, and achieved the ultimate aspirations of those drawn nigh.   AB05710

And We make mention of Mirza Aqa who attained martyrdom in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds. There were revealed for him aforetime clear verses whereby honored servants were attracted. He testified to that which My Most Exalted Pen did testify: that there is none other God but Me, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH02103

The honored Master was known among the friends for his utmost truthfulness and love, and from the beginning of his life was regarded with the eye of providence and was renowned for his search after the light of truth, until he drank the wine of guidance from the hand of grace and strove in the path of the Most Great Unity.   AB11824

Your distinguished father has taken flight to the Kingdom of lights. However, after perfecting his servitude at the Threshold of the Lord and enduring boundless troubles and hardships, praise be to God, he possessed such conduct, speech and deeds that he was the envy of the righteous and the object of jealousy to strangers.   AB12104

That distinguished martyr, like unto a lucky star, shineth from the dawning-place of divine unity, luminous, resplendent and unmistakable, though mortal eyes are debarred from beholding him. With his face beaming with light, with a luminous brow and enthralling beauty, he is calling aloud from the summit of the heaven of glory  AB00743

O Husayn! After Ghulam, the Mighty, the All-Knowing remembers thee, when He was wronged at the hands of the heedless. Blessed art thou for having turned towards Him and believed when the people were in manifest rejection. Thou didst attain unto the traces of My Pen before thy ascension and after it through this luminous Tablet.  BH11608

The letter from that mine of faithfulness and essence of purity and herald of God's Cause, Aqa Mirza Mahdi Ikhvan-i-Safa, arrived. That honored person ascended to the horizon of glory in Isfahan... That blessed soul was fruitful and free from every bond. Now his worth is not known, but soon it will become evident and manifest.   AB01669

Truly, Mr. Chase was a glorious personage, having no desire save the good pleasure of God. His attention was directed to the Kingdom of God. He served during his lifetime. He was not at all wanting in service. He compiled certain books proving the validity of the Movement. As much as he could, he endeavored to guide the people.   ABU2341

We testify that she attained the presence of God and heard the call of her Lord when the Desired One was seated upon the throne of His mercy that hath encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth. Grieve not for her - verily she hath ascended unto the Sadratu'l-Muntaha, the Most Exalted Horizon, and the Supreme Companion.   BH01263

His honor Manshadi has attained eternal joy and hastened from this world to the divine realm. During his life he was engaged in service and throughout his lifetime was occupied with spreading the divine verses. Indeed, that distinguished and noble master was great and exerted all his strength in continuous and steadfast service.   AB01804

The Most Exalted Leaf of Paradise, upon her be the Glory of God the Most Glorious, was a manifestation of the supreme bounty and the recipient of endless favors. From the dawning of the Morn of Guidance and the rising of the Most Exalted Sun, she was attracted to the holy fragrances and enkindled with the fire of the love of God.  AB11817

I testify that you believed in God and were certain of God's verses and submitted to the Manifestation of God's lights and were humble before the Dawning Place of God's revelation and were attracted by the fragrances of God and protected the Dayspring of God's light and preserved the Center of Guidance from the evil of the enemies   AB03275

He was truly a blessed being and sincere in the Cause of Truth. During this time nothing was heard about him except praise and commendation. He was always engaged in his work with a detached heart, a joyous spirit and a breast dilated through divine favors. He was a calm being, content with his state, thankful, grateful and happy.   AB11816

Thy noble grandfather Mirza Jalal was illumined by the lights of the Beauty. Praise be to God, until his final breath he was intimate with the mention of the Beloved of the horizons and was firm and steadfast in the Cause. In truth, he was the brilliant lamp of that family, and now he shineth bright in the niche of the higher realm.  AB09316

With tearful eyes and burning heart you lamented and cried out over the ascension of your kind father. You are right to do so, it is fitting, for a loving father is most precious, especially one who lit the candle with the fire of the love of God and, like a moth, consumed his soul circling around the lamp of the Supreme Concourse.   AB03360

Although they have sacrificed their heads in the world of dust, they have raised them in the world of sanctity. Though they have spilled their pure blood upon the dusty earth, they have clung to the hem of grandeur in the kingdom of the Most Glorious and sweetened the cup of martyrdom at the banquet of reunion with nectar and sugar.   AB05653

O thou who art attracted by the breaths of God and enkindled with the fire of the love of God! I testify that thou didst respond to the Call and thy heart was stirred by the outpourings from the Most Glorious Kingdom, and thou didst believe in the Lord of the highest heavens and didst speak forth praise of thy Lord among all peoples   AB06459

When we were in Bagdad there was amongst the believers a young man by the name of Janabé Moneab. He was one of the most spiritual youths that I have known in the Baha'i revelation. He possessed a sweet, affable temper and a pure, sterling character. I was greatly attached to him and from the depth of my heart I admired and loved him.  ABU0959

There was a Mohamad Bey, a Kurd, of short stature, fat and a long beard. He had met Baha'u'llah when he was living in the mountain of Soleymanieh and became His ardent follower. When Baha'u'llah returned from the mountains after two years of absence, this Mohamad Bey also came to Bagdad bringing 46 mares for the governor Omar pasha.   ABU0711

The text eulogizes a deceased believer who recognized the truth: "The first light that dawned from the horizon of the Most Merciful's utterance and the first fragrance that wafted in the days of God, the Lord of all beings - upon thee, O thou who didst attain unto faith when the people were wrapped in the darkness of vain imaginings."  BH02146

And concerning what thou didst write about the elevated and blessed Aqa Mirza Aqa Baba, upon him be the glory of God, His loving-kindness and His grace, praise be to God that he ascended to the Supreme Companion with complete faith and perfect devotion, and the fragrance of certitude was diffused from him at the time of his ascension.  BH11311

The death of Sa'd was not the death of one alone, But rather was the collapse of a people's edifice. That bird of fidelity soared to the rose garden of eternity, that moth was consumed by the divine flame, that yearning soul hastened to the assemblage of the Day Star of all horizons, and that fish found its way to the limitless ocean.  AB11626

He was in truth, an embodiment of spirituality and an image of light. Whenever his radiant countenance is called to mind I feel a divine happiness. The splendors of truthfulness, love of God and knowledge of God emanated from his effulgent and luminous brow. His resignation and submission unto the Will of God was evident and manifest.   AB00611

What a shining candle was aflame in that black-colored lamp. Praise be to God that that lighted candle ascended from the earthly lamp to the Kingdom of Eternity and gleamed and became aflame in the Heavenly Assemblage. Although that sinless one was black in color, like unto the black pupil of the eye, he was a source of shining light.   AB00425

The love which 'Abdu'l-Baha beareth for the survivors of the martyrs is to the degree that the Concourse on high applaud it! These blessed souls laid down their lives. To use the popular expression, It is no laughing matter. They tasted the venom of the sword, and made their mirror-like breasts the targets of a hundred thousand arrows.  AB03413

for that precious soul who was the comfort of every dear one and the cause of joy to the hearts of rich and poor alike, has vanished like a luminous star behind the clouds of absence. The candle of the gathering has been extinguished, and from the intensity of pain and grief, it has caused tumult in the hearts and souls of the friends.   AB11660

This servant remembers Thy servant who was ever the recipient of the glances of Thine eye of mercy and the object of the gaze of Thy loving-kindness among Thy creatures. He was ever a servant of Thy Cause, a spreader of Thy remembrance, a counselor to Thy creation, a guide to Thy servants, a herald of Thy name, and a servant at Thy gate   AB06472

His Holiness Abu'l-Fadl, may my spirit be sacrificed for him, did not rest for a moment during his life, nor did he find comfort on any pillow at night. Day and night he engaged in promoting the Cause of God and exalting the Word of God, establishing proofs and evidence, and writing responses to the objections of every sinful falsifier.   AB02450

Your uncle who ascended to the Kingdom of Glory, Haji Mirza Kamal, hastened to the presence of the Luminary of the Horizons in Iraq and was honored to be there with his family for some time. Likewise, he who was close to the Desired One, your honored father Mahmud, also attained His presence and became the recipient of His supreme grace.  AB02997

Reflect upon Abu-Basir and Ashraf and that which was manifested from them...Blessed are they both, and blessed is he who visiteth them, who seeketh them out, who turneth toward them, who maketh mention of them, and who draweth nigh through them unto God, the Forgiving, the Generous. With illumined hearts and radiant faces did they ascend.  BH06368

O 'Ali! Thou art in the highest Paradise while the Wronged One remembereth thee in the prison of 'Akka, and remembereth the days of thy presence and thy meeting, and the love which took from thy grasp the reins of patience and forbearance, and brought thee time and again to this place wherein the Call hath been raised morning and evening.  BH01338

The family of His Holiness Nabil is associated with His Holiness the Glorious One, for in truth for sixty years that family has been serving the Threshold with the utmost faith and certitude. In every instance they were firm and in every station they were steadfast. This family, nay this lineage, possess eternal glory and heavenly bounty.  AB03659

he did not pass a day except in service at Your holy threshold, and no night passed except that his cry of supplication and burning sighs rose to the Kingdom of Verses. He would implore You in the darkness of the gloomy night with a heart throbbing with Your remembrance and tears flowing in Your love and attraction to Your holy threshold   AB00462

Bashin came into our household when he was a small child. He was a very excellent boy; he was sincere; he was faithful. When we were living in Acca, once he fell from the topmost story to the ground, a distance of 30 or 40 meters. Nothing happened to him. God had protected him. He was a very pure, good boy. He was a believer; he was firm.  ABU1042

Reflect upon the crimson leaf, upon whom be all the most glorious Glory of God. In view of the love and enkindlement and yearning and attraction that was in her, God, exalted and mighty be He, made her the object of mentions, for there was revealed in her honor that which shall endure as long as the kingdom of earth and heaven shall last.   BH04994

Real feasts were held during the days of the Blessed Perfection; for then we used to get up early morning with the utmost joy, exhilaration and happiness, addressing ourselves with transport:- 'This is the day of the Feast. Soon shall we stand before His Holiness Baha'u'llah, receive a new Grace and witness a new Confirmation and Bounty.'   ABU0730

The honored Nightingale of the garden of meanings, the trusted messenger of the All-Merciful, His Holiness Shaykh Salman, upon him be the fragrances of his Lord, the Bestower, rendered outstanding services to the Cause of God. His mention should always remain in spiritual gatherings, for in the Abha Kingdom he shines like a brilliant lamp.   AB07063

We desired to make mention of one of My maidservants who turned toward My horizon and hastened to the Dawning-Place of the light of My countenance until she entered My abode and stood before the throne of My grandeur, and her eyes were solaced by My beauty, and she drank the choice wine of reunion in her final days from the cup of My bounty.   BH05208

We make mention in this place of thy father who was adorned with the ornament of the loving-kindness of his Lord, the All-Merciful. He hath ascended unto God and the Concourse on High found from him the fragrance of My love, the Mighty, the Inaccessible. Blessed is he and blessed is he who remembereth him, and woe unto every heedless doubter.  BH03363

Thy distinguished grandfather, Mirza Jalal, was illumined by the lights of the Beauty of God. Praise be to God that until his last breath he was intimate with the mention of the Beloved of the horizons and was firm and steadfast in the Cause. In truth, he was the brilliant lamp of that family and now shineth in the niche of the supreme realm.  AB09316

We make mention in this station of Our servant Husayn, who believed in God and His signs, and bore witness to that whereunto the All-Merciful bore witness on the Day when the Ancient King was established upon the Most Great Throne. By the life of God! This testimony, whereat My Most Exalted Pen was moved in this glorious station, sufficeth him.   BH05947

We have desired to make mention of him who ascended to the Supreme Companion, having turned to God in His days. Blessed is he and joy be unto him. We testify that he acknowledged that which the Tongue of Grandeur did utter, and We were present at his ascension. The Concourse on High and the denizens of this exalted station bear witness to this.   BH01907

"Thy respected wife, Mrs. Maxwell, is indeed a lighted candle. Know thou her worth. That maidservant of God shall shine forth in the spiritual gatherings in such wise as to surpass the fame of Mary Magdalene and St. Barbara. That lamp of the love of God is in truth aglow and will be the cause of thy glory in this world and in the Kingdom above."  AB02989

O ye two remnants of the two noble souls, `Abdu'l-Majid and Siyyid Mu?sin. The truth is that I find myself incapable of befittingly extolling those two blessed souls. Both were taught by the Blessed Beauty, were revived by the Fragrances of the Holy Spirit, and they both, like unto immovable mountains remained firm, steadfast and strong in Iraq.   AB00510

She never wavered in serving Thy loved ones and comforting Thy servants. She spent her wealth upon the weak and the poor, seeking Thy good pleasure...She was a treasure to every poor one, a shelter to every captive, a refuge to every stranger. Her generosity was as a flowing spring to every thirsty soul, and a comfort to every wanderer and wayfarer.  AB02858

We were with him at the time of his ascension and made mention of him in such wise as caused the ocean of forgiveness to surge and the fragrances of God's tender mercy, the Forgiving, the Merciful, to waft. Blessed is he and blessed is he who maketh mention of him after his ascension through that which hath been sent down from One ancient in descent.  BH04916

How fair art thou in my sight! Will I ever see thee again with my physical eyes? Will I ever walk through thy narrow streets? Art thou not the city wherein Baha'u'llah spent His earthly life and then ascended to the supreme Concourse? Truly thou art the mother of all the cities of the world and thou art blessed beyond the grasp of human imagination!   ABU2025

We have desired in this Station to make mention of him who ascended unto Us and attained the Supreme Companion, the Station whereby the eyes of those brought near were solaced. He was named Lu?f-'Ali in the Kingdom of Names, and there was revealed for him from the Most Exalted Pen that which hath perfumed with its fragrance the heavens and the earth.   BH00985

Though that garden has become hidden from sight behind the veil of the unseen, praise be to God that He has planted a sapling like thee in the stream of existence. When we seek the fragrance of that rose garden, we smell thy perfume, for thou art the sign of that soul detached from all signs, and the fresh hundred-petaled rose blooming in that garden.  AB07630

We testify that thy father remained faithful to God's Covenant and did not break His pledge, and was among those who stood firm until his spirit ascended unto God, the King, the Mighty, the Inaccessible. Know thou that he is with Us and abides in manifest spirit and delight. Were the veil to be lifted, the servants would behold him in an exalted station   BH04854

The near ones make mention of him in the heaven of eternity, for the Most Exalted Pen hath been moved to his remembrance by the fingers of Glory. Thus did the bounty of his Lord encompass him...How wonderful art thou, O servant who hast ascended unto God and detached thyself from all else, for thy beard was reddened with thy blood in the path of thy Lord.  BH03026

We make mention of thy father who drank the choice wine from the hand of My bounty and soared in My atmosphere and acknowledged that which My tongue acknowledged and confessed that which My Pen proclaimed, and attained unto the Supreme Companion when he sought the most exalted Summit - the station which none save God, the Mighty, the Wise, hath understood.   BH04211

Upon thee, O thou who art martyred in the path of God, the Lord of the Throne and of the dust, be the glory of God and His praise, and the glory of all who dwell in the Kingdom of Names, and the glory of all things at all times. I testify that thou didst fulfill the Covenant of God and His Testament, and didst speak His praise, and wert steadfast in His Cause   BH03613

Consider that they did not bury His Holiness the Prince of Martyrs (may my spirit be sacrificed for him) and all his companions in Muslim cemeteries, but left them covered in blood and mixed with dust in the land of Taff. Yet observe that those built-up graves became covered pits with no trace remaining, while that pure earth is eternally radiant in the world.   AB01233

"The biographies of such blessed souls must be written in detail - thus the children of the next generation may try to imitate the virtues of their fathers. When these holy souls pass away from this life, in the supplications and Epistles that I write in their behalves, I touch briefly the history of their lives and the services they have rendered to the Cause."  ABU1422

Mary Magdalene - and Magdala was a humble village on the shore of Lake Tiberias. Glory be to God! Though this leaf was from among the veiled ones and from a village, she was confirmed with such a spirit of reinforcement that renowned men were rendered helpless, and she became the cause of steadfastness, firmness, constancy and tranquility for all the monotheists.  AB06396

The resplendent glory and radiant light encompass your luminous dust, and sweet fragrance surrounds your resting place from every direction, O you who were attracted by the divine breathings, enkindled with the fire of the love of God, believed in the words of God, chanted the verses of God, conveyed the glad tidings of God, and became aware of the signs of God.   AB03595

Blessed is she, and blessed is the one who maketh mention of her after her ascension in the manner in which the All-Merciful hath made mention of her in the Kingdom of Utterance. Thus hath the Tongue spoken in this most sublime station. We have forgiven her and purified her at the time of her ascension, and adorned her with the ornament of My wondrous remembrance.   BH04267

Blessed art thou for having sought the Ultimate Goal and the Most Exalted Horizon while the Wronged One was held beneath the talons of hatred through that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought. At the time of thy ascension there was revealed for thee that which hath diffused the sweet savors of the loving-kindness of thy Lord, the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH02989

O thou who art assured by the verses of God! If thou wert to open a hundred thousand tongues in praise of the Lord of Oneness for having been honored with kinship to that radiant candle of the gathering of sacrifice--that is, thine uncle who was accepted at the Divine Threshold--thou wouldst still not have rendered proper thanks or fulfilled thy debt for this bounty.  AB08249

Those souls who participated in the funeral procession of the pure body of Aqa Fadlu'llah are truly deserving of the favors of the Ancient Beauty, and assuredly the influence of this procession will become evident and manifest in all the worlds. For attending the funeral of the friends of God is among the requirements of love and steadfastness in the Cause of God.   AB01234

We have remembered thy father, both before and after, who turned to the Countenance and gave up his spirit in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds. We testify that he has ascended to the Supreme Companion, and from him have the dwellers of the highest Paradise inhaled the fragrance of the love of his Most Glorious Lord. Exalted be this noble and gracious station.  BH03379

He was a bird warbling in Thy Rose Garden, a lion roaring in Thy forests, and a leviathan swimming in Thy ocean, until the World of Existence was too confining for Him. So when the day of His destiny came He returned to Thee with a heart attracted to Thee, His countenance radiant, tears of joy flowing from Him, exultant in the knowledge of Thy forgiveness and pardon.   AB00980

O thou who art mentioned before the Wronged One! Call to mind when 'Ali-Qabli-Akbar proceeded to the Prison accompanied by My Name Jamal and a few other souls... The essence of remembrance and praise be upon thee, O thou who didst bear hardships in the path of God, the Creator of heaven, and didst drink from the cup of tribulation in His love, the Mighty, the Wondrous.   BH04240

He became a brilliant niche for the light of guidance and the horizon of the All-Merciful for the star of guidance. He raised such a banner that will wave at the pole of the horizons until eternity, and planted such a seed that will grow as a lofty tree in the Most Glorious Paradise. May my soul be sacrificed for the earth upon which his pure, brilliant blood was shed!   AB00910

And We remember thy father who attained unto the ornament of certitude and bore witness unto that which God did bear witness and uttered that which was recorded in My Preserved Tablet. We testify that he wavered not in this Cause and when he heard the call from the direction of his Lord, the Lord of Names, he said: "Here am I, here am I, O God of the unseen and the seen!"   BH01879

O peerless sapling in the garden of that glorious martyr! Blessed art thou to be a sapling of that garden! Blessed art thou to be a star in that heaven! Blessed art thou to be a lamp in that night-chamber! Blessed art thou to be a ray of that brilliant star! Blessed art thou to be a memento of that radiant orb! Blessed art thou to be a royal pearl from that ocean of mercy!   AB07629

I bear witness that thou wast born in sanctity and didst ascend unto God with a countenance unaltered by earthly conditions and tribulations, until thou didst enter within the precincts of the mercy of thy Lord, the All-Loving, the All-Merciful. I bear witness that thou wert mature before attaining maturity, and wert strong in the Book of God, the Lord of the mighty Throne.   BH04562

Blessed art thou, O brother! Verily he ascended to the Supreme Companion and God made him purified from the defilement of the world... O Hashim! Blessed art thou for having heard the Call and responded to thy Lord. We bear witness that thou didst turn and believe when the servants turned away, until thou didst fulfill thy pledge by the command of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH04535

From earliest youth until he grew helpless and old, that sacred bough of the Holy Tree, with his smiling face, shone out like a lamp in the midst of all. Then he leapt and soared to undying glory, and plunged into the ocean of light. Upon him be the breathings of his Lord, the All-Merciful. Upon him, lapped in the waters of grace and forgiveness, be the mercy and favor of God.  AB00002

That heavenly soul was love personified, and thus longed to ascend to the Kingdom so that, like the holy birds, she might nest in the garden of the Abha Kingdom and begin to sing sweet melodies and songs. Praise be to God, she left behind blessed traces in this world as well, such that her good name endures and remains. She attained eternal life and achieved everlasting glory.   AB05345

That illustrious Uncle is seated upon the throne of truth in the presence of the Mighty Sovereign and gazes upon those left behind, his pure soul being present. That embodied spirit was very kind to 'Abdu'l-Baha, and in childhood in Nur would shower affection day and night and embrace him. His kindness will not be forgotten and 'Abdu'l-Baha will not be silent in mentioning him.   AB03992

We testify that his tongue was created for the remembrance of God, his sight for beholding the signs of his Lord, the Possessor of Names, and his ear for hearkening to His sweetest call. From the beginning until now he has been speaking words of praise and glory. Great is the reward of this station and this deed, and from the Tongue of Grandeur he was named the Most Great Nabil.   BH07614

And truly, his honor Haji Abu-Yishan possessed a divine heart and a luminous countenance. He had a soul full of glad-tidings and meanings full of significance. In Iraq, in the presence of the Luminary of the horizons, he was an accepted servant and was received with perfect joy in His presence. Ultimate grace was bestowed upon him and the highest favors encompassed his condition   AB05523

O thou who art the descendant of that wonderful soul! Thine honoured father spent all the days of his life in sacrifice until he won the garland of victory in the field of service. He never rested for one moment nor was he at ease for a single day. Until he died he was always the target of darts and arrows, of curses and execration which rained down upon him from the wicked ones.  AB06231

We make mention of him at this time and beseech God to spread out for him the carpet of pardon and forgiveness, and to send down upon him at all times mercy from His presence and grace from His own Self. We bear witness that he believed in God and His verses, acknowledged His Books and His Messengers and His chosen ones, and recognized what He hath revealed in His Perspicuous Book.  BH03165

Concerning what you wrote about his honor, the elevated and blessed Haji Mulla 'Ali - upon him be God's peace, remembrance, praise, care and favors - through God's grace, exalted be His glory, during his life he drank what was to be drunk, and after his ascension he attained unto that which none save God can properly comprehend. Blessed is he, and his is a goodly beginning and end.   BH01397

His honor Ali Haydar was in the days of God a manifestation of favor and a dawning-place of the light of guidance. He was a believer and one assured in faith, and he stood firm in service. The Blessed Beauty showed him great consideration. After the Ascension also he remained firm and steadfast in the Covenant and exerted his utmost effort in service to the Cause of the Desired One.  AB12182

Through him Thou didst guide pure and goodly souls amongst Thy people. At all times he set his gaze upon Thy Most Glorious Kingdom and turned unto the Concourse on high, supplicating to Thee in the morning and the evening, in tears before Thy face. In the darkest of dark nights, his appointed time in this nether plane came to an end. He yearned to meet Thee in the Supreme Concourse.  AB02822

Your noble father attained the honor of meeting [Baha'u'llah] in Iraq, heard the divine call with his own ears, and became immersed in the lights of witnessing Him. He was a companion to this servant for some time, remaining steadfast at the Sacred Threshold day and night, until he returned to Farahan. The hearts and souls of the eager ones were gladdened and rejoiced at his memory.   AB06242

Praise be to God that from the dawning of the morn of oneness, that noble family have been devoted to the Truth and ready to render service. His honor Haji, who has ascended unto God, attained the honor of entering the presence of the Day-Star of the horizons in Iraq, and was confirmed therein. From that time until now they have ever been and still are occupied in service to the Truth.  AB07596

We make mention in this station of My servant who hath ascended to the Supreme Companion and who was named 'Abdu'l-Hamid in the Kingdom of Names. O Hamid! Upon thee be My glory and My loving-kindness and My mercy that hath preceded all who are in the heavens and on earth. I bear witness that thou didst hear My call and turn to My horizon and set thy face toward My luminous countenance.   BH04879

The steadfast and firm in the Covenant, Mashhadi Yusuf, truly spent his life serving in every instance and was foremost among the benefactors in giving. You wrote that he endowed a magnificent caravanserai to the two schools for males and females. This zealous person is highly praiseworthy and appreciated. In all matters he demonstrated lofty resolve, and the friends always praise him.   AB11835

We have previously made mention of him who attained to faith and recognition, who was named Habibullah in My perspicuous Book. Concerning him who ascended unto God there hath been revealed that which hath caused its fragrance to encompass the world. This Wronged One beareth witness to the turning, the devotion, the humility and the submissiveness of that deceased one in the days of God.   BH02915

O Breakwell, O my dear one! Where now is thy fair face? Where is thy fluent tongue? Where thy clear brow? Where thy bright comeliness? Where is thy fire, blazing with God's love? Where is thy rapture at His holy breaths? Where are thy praises, lifted unto Him? Where is thy rising up to serve His Cause? Where are thy beauteous eyes? Thy smiling lips? The princely cheek? The graceful form?  AB00398

The pure and holy handmaiden of God, the mother, although she cast off this physical garment, praise be to God she adorned the temple of the spirit with the robes of divine forgiveness and pardon and made it luminous. The ephemeral mirage was transformed into the eternal wine in the divine gathering. She was freed from deprivation and found her way to the private chamber of the Beloved.   AB11717

Among these is the calamity of Your maidservant who believed in You and Your verses, whose inner being was set aflame with the fire of Your love, whose eyes were consoled by witnessing Your traces, whose ailment was healed by the wine of the chalice of Your knowledge, whose thirst was quenched from the spring of Your bounty, and whose anguish was cooled by the breezes of Your providence.   AB06555

This servant had an indescribable attachment and devotion to His Holiness the illustrious Sadr, for he was a bright candle in the night-chamber of guidance and in the rose garden of divine knowledge he was occupied with designing flowers of truth and meanings. He had an eloquent speech and an articulate expression, and with utmost sincerity and detachment he strived in this wondrous Cause.  AB03926

Blessed art thou, O Muhammad-i-Yusuf, inasmuch as thou didst soar on the wings of detachment in the days of thy Lord, the Creator of all things, through Whose remembrance the earth and heaven were illumined, and before Whose command all things have bowed down, while the Herald hath cried out from every direction: "The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Possessor of all that was and shall be!"   BH00605

"O My leaf! Upon thee be the Glory of God and His mercy which hath preceded all who are in earth and heaven. I testify that thou didst turn to the Most Exalted Horizon out of love for the presence of God, the Lord of Names, and didst partake of the Choice Wine sealed by My Self-Subsisting Name in such wise that neither the veils of the divines nor the doubts of the theologians prevented thee."  BH03768

Blessed art thou, O Mas'ud, for having turned to the Supreme Companion in the Days of God, thy Lord and the Lord of thy forefathers, and for having attained unto His traces in thy life and after thy death. We make mention of thee at this time in such wise as the near ones bear witness to God's loving-kindness, His grace and His mercy that have preceded all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH00265

A Memorial Meeting was held in behalf of his holiness Abul Fazael... In reality that reverend souls was fully established in the Divine Religion and under the protection of His Holiness Baha-ollah he attained to a very lofty summit. He was a brilliant lamp and a shining star! His station was unknown in his lifetime, the luminosity of that star of guidance is destined fir the future centuries.   AB04215

Indeed, you are a distinguished descendant of your illustrious grandfather, and a brilliant lamp of that leader of the righteous ones' household. We are most pleased that that family laid such a solid foundation and established the base of such a lofty palace that its highest chambers reach to the canopy of heaven, and the spirit of that noble personage takes pride in the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB04397

O servant of Baha! Your honored brother spread his wings and flew until he reached the nest of the divine birds and circumambulated the most exalted station of the Ancient Beauty, chanting with spiritual melody divine praise and glorification. At every moment he remembered you and kept you in his heart. He fulfilled the requirements of brotherhood and sacrificed his life in fraternal devotion.   AB03348

Since that ascended leaf was related to His Holiness, the Most Truthful Name of God, the glorious martyr, and dwelt beneath the shade of the Word of Divine Unity, and was enkindled with the fire of love for the Most Glorious Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His sacred threshold - she is assuredly immersed in the ocean of forgiveness and immortalized in the paradise of pardon and bounty.  AB07658

O thou daughter of the Kingdom; O thou esteemed maidservant of God! O thou Mrs. Peeke, pure and sanctified is the Lord of the Kingdom who released thee from this earthly world and led thee unto the Divine World, who took thee into the pure world out of this world of dust, delivered thee from separation, longing and yearning, and caused thee to soar up into the rose-garden of vision and meeting.   AB01897

Blessed is thy father who migrated from his home in his longing to attain the presence of God and appeared before the Throne when the Cause was veiled in manifest obscurity. He drank from the Kawthar of reunion before its manifestation and attained to the Hidden Mystery before its revelation. To this testifieth He with Whom is a mighty Book. He was with Me for numbered days in the prison of Mim.   BH04122

O Greatest of the Great Ones and Leader of the Noble Ones and Light of the Eyes of the Distinguished Ones! O man of wisdom and glorious martyr, unique among the loved ones and peerless among the chosen ones! How blessed is the mother who bore you, the earth that carried you, the father who raised you, the city that contained you, the tribe that claimed you, and the souls that found comfort in you.   AB04964

This servant had the utmost heart attachment in Iraq with those two servants of the Luminary of the horizons. In truth they were noble and two sincere believers at the Threshold of the Lord. The Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones, was pleased with both of them and had Himself taught the Faith to Jinab-i-Haji. In truth he was zealous and patient and chaste and thankful.   AB03354

He is the All-Glorious! Blow O ye sweet fragrances of God! Breath O ye breezes of God! Proceed ye to the city towards the south, a land within which layeth to rest a soul breathed into its heart and soul the spirit of God, a land which embraced a body gathered under the banner of God, and a heart attracted by the sweet fragrances of God, and limbs and members enkindled by the fire of the Love of God.  AB02142

Praise be to God, you are descendants of that father and mother who, from the beginning of the Revelation, drank from the pure cup and tasted the honey of the divine presence, and found repose in the shade of the Tree of Sinai. Through the gift of the All-Merciful they rejoiced and in the paradise of the love of God they prospered, until they hastened to the Abha Kingdom and attained the supreme gift.   AB05657

and in particular that man of wisdom and that glorious radiant light, that fragrant musk, he who bore the name of 'Ali-Akbar, may his pure spirit be sanctified. O Lord! He was a brilliant light, a shining ray, a conclusive proof, and a piercing flame against the Covenant-breakers, a drawn sword against the violators, a clear guide for the seekers, and a gushing spring for those who thirsted and sought.   AB00750

Your noble uncle is established upon the throne of eternal glory in the Kingdom of Light, for in his days he was engaged in service, devoted to servitude at the Threshold of the One, and familiar with the holy fragrances. Now you too must follow his example and arise to that which befits one related to him, that you may become the cause of brightening his lamp and enter into the circle of the gathering.  AB10856

Blessed be he that entereth the Ridvan Garden, extolling the name of God, his Lord, the Most Compassionate. May the perfumed breezes wafting from thy flowers and blossoms blow over thee, O 'Abdu's-Sali?, O thou effulgent light! I bear witness that the evidences of thy handiwork in this garden are a testimony to thy living presence and to the services that thou hast rendered to thy Lord, the God of mercy.   BH03367

I bear witness that thou didst turn toward the all-highest paradise and didst attain unto that which most of the people have not attained. I testify moreover that thou didst verily bear hardships and tribulations in the path of God, the Fashioner of the heavens. So unwavering was thy conviction that neither the blame of blamers nor the denial of the ungodly among the women held thee back in the Cause of God.  BH06979

Your distinguished uncle ascended to the Kingdom of Mysteries, but praise be to God, his traces remain firm and established. He left behind noble sons and persons like yourself as memorials. I hope that the descendants will bring honor to their ancestors, so that they may water and nurture the sapling that that one ascended unto God planted, until it casts a mighty shade and yields fresh fruits and produce.   AB11714

O Shukru'llah! Thou art in the Most Exalted Paradise, and the Wronged One mentioneth thee in the prison of 'Akka. We beseech God to send down upon thee a mercy from His presence and a light from His own Self. Verily He is the Most Merciful of the merciful. He loveth His friends and remembereth them before and after their ascension, holding in His grasp the reins of grace, and He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH01384

I bear witness that you tore away the veils of glory, rent asunder the coverings, and dispersed the darkness through the power of clear verses. You responded to the call raised from the Abha Kingdom, guided the thirsty ones to the fountainhead of certitude and the spring of assured truth, called them to the manifest light, directed them to the straight path, and exalted the mention of your Lord among all peoples.   AB02323

The calamity of his honor, Mirza Abul-Fazl is indeed great. No matter how much we want to console ourselves, we cannot be consoled. How good for man to be like this, so that the hearts of all the friends are attracted to him in every way. While in Alexandria, every time my heart was depressed, I used to go and meet him and at once my depression vanished. He was very truthful. He never harbored deceit and revenge.   ABU0594

The first praise that appeared in the world of creation and the first mention that moved the tongues of the near ones be upon thee, O thou leaf that art firm and stirring upon the Lote Tree, ascending to the heaven of grace and mercy, and rising to the kingdom of power and grandeur! Blessed art thou for having been adorned with the ornament of eternity and for having cast off from thyself the garment of mortality.   BH00695

Remember thou the days when thou wert beneath the canopies of thy Lord's grandeur, when in the morning the breath of loving-kindness wafted over thee, and in the evening the fragrances of revelation were diffused before thy face, and at dawn the gentle breeze of God, the Kind, the Gracious. Blessed are the days when thou didst stand at the door, hearing His verses, beholding His horizon, and speaking His beauteous praise.   BH01473

Since that dove of love hath winged its flight to the garden of faithfulness, and that yearning one for the Beauty of the All-Merciful hath hastened to the eternal gathering of divine manifestation, and that parched and burning soul hath rushed to the living waters, and that consumed moth hath ascended around the lamp of the Concourse on High, this servant writeth in reply that the details of the event in Nayriz are known.  AB11160

And We have desired at this time to make mention of My handmaiden and My leaf who hath soared on the wings of longing unto God, the Lord of the Day of Mutual Meeting... We testify that she turned when the Call was raised and answered her Lord with the word "Yea." We testify that she attained unto My days, held fast to My loving-kindness, clung to the hem of My mercy, and spoke My praise amongst My handmaidens and My leaves.  BH02076

O remnants of that sanctified and blessed soul who was the namesake of the Desired One! Praise be to God that he attained his heart's desire, hearkened to the call of the loving Lord, turned unto the promised Beauty, took shelter beneath His outstretched shadow, and achieved a praiseworthy station. When he took flight toward the kingdom of mystery, he heard this call issuing from the Concourse on high: "Come onward and hasten!"  AB02119

The news of His Holiness Minshadi's ascension caused the utmost grief and sorrow, but that embodied light became a pure spirit and attained the joy of the righteous in the divine realm. From the beginning of his faith and certitude, he spent his time in complete steadfastness and constancy in service to the Divine Unity, and was confirmed and assisted in winning His good-pleasure. Blessed is he and excellent is his final abode.  AB07952

Truly I say the departure of Mirza Abu'l Fazl is an irretrievable loss for the people of Baha. In all the countries of the world, wherever the believers are found, they are deeply affected by the death of this glorious personage. For all of them loved him most cordially and admired him from the bottom of their hearts and souls. He attracted to himself the spirit of every one. Truly he was a worthy man! Truly he was a divine man!  ABU0444

All the Concourse on High and the birds of the gardens of Abha utter his praise and glorification, and the maidens of the exalted Paradise remember and extol him in pavilions of supreme glory. For that essence of being and that reality attracted to the fragrances of the Worshipped One became so intoxicated and bewildered by the sealed wine that in complete ecstasy and joy he hastened to the field of sacrifice and laid down his life.   AB01393

that cherished handmaiden of God during her lifetime chanted the evident verses and was the cause of exalting the Word of God. In every gathering she called to the Kingdom of God and in every assembly she shone like a candle with the light of the love of God. Her praiseworthy services at the Holy Threshold of the Blessed Beauty are remembered, and the trials and tribulations she endured in the path of God are well-known and evident.   AB11708

He was among those blessed souls who attained the presence of Baha'u'llah and was favored with His gracious regard and encompassed by divine loving-kindness. He became one of the Hands of the Cause of God and was steadfast in the Covenant with perfect firmness and constancy. I had a special love for him. He was a delightful conversationalist and like an intimate companion to all. He made a goodly ascension; he was in a blessed state.  ABU0919

And We have desired at this time to make mention of him who was named Muhammad-i-Qa'ini. He departed from his homeland, seeking his supreme homeland beneath the canopies of the mercy of his Lord, the Most Glorious. Fate prevented him from attaining the presence of the Lord of all beings, and he ascended on the path to the abode of the Guide, where the mercy of his Lord embraced him, until it caused him to enter the Most Exalted Paradise   BH03578

"O Letter ?a! By God, through thee the horizon of faithfulness dawned and that was manifested whereby the Cause of God, Creator of the heavens, was spread abroad. Blessed is the eye that hath wept for thy calamities, and the ear that hath heard thy praise, and the face that hath turned toward thee, and the soul that hath hastened until it reached thy resting-place - the spot honored by thy noble body and thy sacred and glorious temple."   BH01337

Indeed that brilliant star spent his life in utmost hardship in the path of the Divine Unity. He drank every bitter cup, saw every affliction, endured every ordeal, and was subjected to every torment. At all times his life was in danger and his heart was immersed in the sea of pain and grief. Despite this, he faced trials and tribulations with perfect joy. He was repeatedly imprisoned and fell under the torture and punishment of oppressors.   AB11633

Verily, We make mention of a handmaiden among the handmaidens of God who hath ascended unto Him, even as We mentioned her before. I testify that she turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon and believed in God at a time when most of His servants had broken His Covenant. We testify that she desired to plunge into the ocean of utterance, but We forbade her, as a wisdom from Our presence, and We mentioned her in such wise as nothing can equal it.   BH00731

This is one of the leaves of the Tree of Thy Oneness and a fruit of the Tree of Thy Singleness whose root is firmly established in the land of eternity and whose branch reacheth the highest heaven. O God, verily calamities have so encompassed her in Thy path that her flesh hath melted away and her bones crumbled to dust. She wasteth away as a burning candle in her separation from Thee and weepeth as a bereaved mother in her remoteness from Thee.  AB09041

Upon thee be greetings and praise, O thou who art the order of the tolerant and radiant Law, the organizer of the straight and most excellent Path, and the arranger of the wondrous and luminous pearl! Upon thee be glory from the Kingdom of Abha, upon thee be praise from the highest horizon, upon thee be greetings and good-pleasure from thy Lord, the All-Merciful, and upon thee be blessings and peace from the Kingdom of Peace throughout all days.   AB03853

Blessed art thou, O Nasir, for having heard and responded and believed and turned until thou didst enter and attain presence and didst hear what the Son of Imran heard on the Mount of Knowledge and didst see what the Beloved saw of the signs of his Lord, the All-Merciful. I testify that thou didst attain the lights of reunion and didst drink the choice wine of nearness and meeting from the hands of thy Lord's bounty in the beginning and the return.   BH03330

O thou who art the remembrance of that successful one, that angelic being of radiant countenance and musk-sweet fragrance! He set out for the dwelling-place of the Friend and so brightly did he shine in the gathering of the lovers and martyrs of the All-Merciful that he became a lamp in the sacred court and, like a resplendent flower, adorned the rose-garden and meadow. He became one of the chosen ones of God and found his way to the divine retreat.  AB08959

Regarding the passing of the honored Ibn-i-Abhar, a detailed prayer was revealed by the Pen of the Covenant and sent previously. He was truly self-sacrificing and, with utmost firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament, was patient, thankful, dignified and zealous. His two dear sons must be cherished and shown honor and kindness in every way. These two precious children are born of the Covenant and are near to the Luminary of the horizons.  AB08643

In truth, that honored personage was a luminous candle, a morning star and a heavenly luminary. He was the cause of the glory of the Cause of God and with his very soul was ever engaged in service to the Ancient Beauty, always desiring comfort and tranquility for the divine friends. Indeed, he was a helper to 'Abdu'l-Baha in the execution of affairs and a partner and associate with this captive of poverty and evanescence in servitude to the Most Great Name.  AB01113

Verily Thy servant Ata lifted the veil, rent asunder the covering, effaced all vain imaginings, and received bounty from the Known Beauty. His eyes were gladdened by witnessing the signs, his heart was assured by the brilliance of the lights, and his soul was pleased and his breast was dilated by discovering the mysteries. He traversed the lands and called the people to the straight path and the right way with speech that bewildered the minds of the hearers.   AB02028

This chapter refers to the Most Exalted Leaf, the mother of Abdu'l-Baha. And truly the humiliation and reproach which she suffered in the path of God is a fact which no one can refute. For the calamities and afflictions mentioned in the whole chapter are such afflictions which she suffered in the path of God, all of which she endured with patience and thanked God therefor and praised Him, because He had enabled her to endure afflictions for the sake of Baha.   AB07153

The passing of Jinab-i-'Andalib has brought grief and sorrow to 'Abdu'l-Baha. I became very sorrowful at this bereavement, for Jinab-i-'Andalib rendered abundant service at the threshold of the Forgiving Lord, and opened an eloquent tongue in praise and tribute to the Desired One, and composed brilliant odes flowing from his talent. This illustrious person had a lofty station of nearness to God which is not known now but will become evident and renowned later.   AB04713

The greeting whose holy fragrances have wafted over all regions and the praise whose sweet breaths have perfumed the East and West of the earth be upon you, O you who were martyred in the path of God and slain in the love of God - the divine sacrifice and heavenly offering, who gave up both soul and treasure on the spiritual path, who strove in God with true striving, who remained firm in His covenant and testament, who was illumined by His light and radiance.   AB01537

We miss Hadji Mirza Hyder Ali very much - we hear that he has passed away. Yes; he ascended. Hadji Mirza Hyder Ali was one of the souls who was immersed in the Kingdom of God; he was unaware of the material world; he lost himself in Baha'o'llah; he had no thought by day or night save that of the Kingdom of God. At the age of thirty he became a believer and remained firm until his death. For over sixty years he had no thought save that of service in the Kingdom.  ABU2094

Prayer seeking forgiveness for: Aqa Mashhadi Husayn Naddaf of Qom, Aqa Mashhadi Rida Naddaf of Qom, Aqa Mirza Ibrahim Naddaf of Qom, Ustad Muhammad Hasan Najjar, Aqa Muhammad Ibrahim Saffar, Ustad Quli Najjar, Aqa Muhammad Ibrahim Naddaf of Yazd, Aqa Mashhadi Abdul-Razzaq of Tabriz, Ruqiyyih Sultan, Narjis Khatun, Khadijih Sultan, Bilqis Sultan, Kawkab Sultan, Sultan, Qamar Sultan, Khanum Sultan, Khavar Khanum of Kashan, Ustad Hasan Naddaf of Yazd, Bilqis Khanum  AB12165

The tragic passing of Bashir was indeed sudden. Therein lies a great wisdom that will only become apparent at a later time. He was brought here as a child and was raised in our house. He was a good-natured lad, and all enjoyed his company. In 'Akka, while still very young, he once fell from a high roof, but no harm came to him. Immediately he rose and walked away. Indeed, destiny is an amazing phenomenon. In truth, he was a good youth and his death was well too.   ABU0861

Although that bird of the garden of divine knowledge has taken flight from the cage of contingent existence, praise be to God that it has winged its way to the nest of truth. In the garden of sanctity, upon the branches of the Tree of Paradise, it has built its nest, and in the eternal Paradise, among the boughs of the Divine Lote-Tree, it has begun to warble hymns of praise and glorification to God, for it has attained to such bounty and been blessed with such a gift.  AB07903

Say: Blessed art thou, O thou who hast ascended to the Most Exalted Companion and hast turned towards the Most Resplendent Station. I testify that thou didst hear the Call, didst respond, didst believe, and wast among the triumphant. Thou art he whom the affairs of creation did not prevent from the Truth. Thou didst arise to make mention and offer praise amidst the concourse of creation, and didst turn thy face toward the Face of God, shining from this luminous horizon.  BH00262

O Lord! Verily Thy servant, the father of Mas'ud, lived a praiseworthy life and was as a spring of water and a source of sustenance for the poor. He opened his breast to guests and clothed them with garments of the finest silk. O Lord! He was of expansive nature and generous disposition, enriching the destitute, offering assistance, and immersing himself in the sea of kindness. He possessed a noble character, a sound heart, a radiant countenance, and profound generosity.  AB04237

O servant of the Blessed Beauty! Convey loving greetings to Aqa Muhammad-Hasan and tell him that his honored father walked for a time in the path of God and has now returned to the horizon of forgiveness. He has left you as a remembrance for us, and in the Kingdom of pardon he watches over your condition and conduct. Walk in such a way as to bring joy to the spirit of that forgiven soul and become a worthy and distinguished successor to that one who has ascended unto God.  AB11146

Although that bird of the garden of truth hath winged its flight to the eternal nest and built its nest upon the divine Lote-Tree of the presence of the One True God, praise be to God, this bird of the branches of guidance hath been left as a remembrance for the beloved friends, that his character and loving nature and heart-attracting qualities may be manifest and present in the gathering of the friends, and that he may become the manifestation of his signs and attributes.  AB08315

Holy souls have abandoned their earthly habitation and have rushed to be at the side of Thy Mercy in the Everlasting Paradise: The place where loyalty was attained and praises were sung in Thy Celestial Garden, where they have rendered continual thanks and have sung continual praise of Thee, O Lord of Existence and Bounty. One of them, your servant Ibrahim, who placed the Crown of Thy Love on his brow has hurried from the Land of Doubt until he reached the Land of Certitude.   AB05022

Your letter of condolence regarding the supreme calamity of the passing of Abu'l-Fadl brought solace to our hearts. As for Abu'l-Fadl, praise be to God, in his own time, as soon as news of his death spread to distant cities, people mourned and shed tears, joined in sighs and laments, and sought the elevation of his station in their prayers. Yet his dear countrymen in Egypt would not approach his bier, lest they be humbled, even though that noble being was the glory of Iranians.  AB01635

I testify that you believed in your Most Exalted Lord, were drawn to the Most Glorious Beauty, submitted to the Lord of the highest heavens, were humble before Him to Whom bow the necks of the people of wisdom, served at the Most Exalted Threshold, worshipped your Lord morning and evening, strove to assist the captives, fulfilled what you were commanded regarding protection of the martyrs' survivors, and ceaselessly endeavored for every good and defended the weak from all harm.   AB01438

The Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) showed the utmost favor towards your distinguished grandfather and praised him in the holy Tablets. He was ever described and characterized by the blessed tongue, saying that this renowned person in the thirteenth century of the Hegira was a prince in the realm of wisdom and an unequaled, peerless secretary. Even when mentioning him, joy would appear on His blessed countenance, which indicated the height of His favor.  AB01494

For several years thy father had found shelter near the Ancient Beauty and reposed beneath the Lote-Tree of the Utmost Paradise, becoming intoxicated from the cup of nearness and specially blessed with the Most Great Bounty. For a long time, on most occasions, he was gladdened by the heavenly feasts of divine nearness and made drunk with the wine of reunion. Among the loved ones of the All-Merciful he was known and celebrated for his excellent character, manners, conditions and deeds.   AB01731

Verily Your maidservant who was attracted by the fragrances of Your holiness, who was set ablaze with the fire of Your love, who proclaimed Your name and spread Your verses among Your creatures...She gave drink to every thirsty one from the cup of Your guidance and healed every sick one with the antidote of Your knowledge. She traveled in Your path to distant regions and proclaimed Your Kingdom in various lands until her flesh and fat melted away from the hardships she endured in Your path.  AB03272

Ismu'llahu'l-A?daq was truly a servant of the Lord from the beginning of life till his last breath. When young, he joined the circle of the late Siyyid Kazim and became one of his disciples. He was known in Persia for his purity of life, winning fame as Mulla ?adiq the saintly. He was a blessed individual, a man accomplished, learned, and much honored. The people of Khurasan were strongly attached to him, for he was a great scholar and among the most renowned of matchless and unique divines.  AB00002

He served Your Sacred Threshold from tender youth... He turned to You night and day, and supplicated before You evening and morning. He served the righteous and strove for the comfort of the free, knowing no weariness and never tiring in serving them continuously... He reached maturity in servitude to You and grew and developed in Your service with a heart overflowing with Your love, a tongue speaking Your praise, a spirit gladdened by Your favors, and a heart aflame with longing to meet You  AB03081

How can I mention thy trials, O Crimson Leaf! By God, through thy fall from the Tree of the Cause, the leaves of the Divine Lote-Tree fell, the branches of the Tree of Eternity were broken, the boughs of the Tree of Blessedness dried up, the hearts of the near ones bled, the faces of the chosen ones turned pale, and the hearts of the pious in the Highest Paradise became entangled. The Faithful Spirit lamented in the presence of the All-Glorious, and the dwellers of earth and heaven cried out.   BH00478

Thou art he whom neither the clamor of the divines nor the objections of the wise deterred, nor did what the people possessed distract thee from God, the Lord of the beginning and the end. Thou didst continue to make mention of God and to praise Him until thy days were ended and thou didst soar on the wings of certitude unto the Supreme Companion and the Most Glorious Horizon, attaining unto that which was ordained for thee in the Crimson Scroll by the Pen of thy Lord, the Creator of all things.  BH11607

who plumbed the depths of knowledge and discovered the mysteries of learning, who contemplated the divine verses and through them found proof of the radiance of lights from the Dayspring of mysteries...he strove to lift the veil and sought reality behind the mask, and left no obstacle unscaled in his quest to reach Thee...He guided pure souls to the decisive Cause and gave them to drink of the choice wine in an elegant cup, guided them to the even path, and strove to exalt Thy Word in Thy kingdom  AB01757

As for the account of the departed and elevated mother, upon her be the Glory of God, at the very moment when news arrived of the ascension of that distinguished emigrant lady, this servant was engaged in writing in His presence. At that very moment, mention of her appeared from the horizon of the Pen. God knows that she attained. She was among the handmaidens who attained to His good-pleasure. In the nights and days she had no occupation except the mention of God. Blessed and welcome tidings to her.   BH00766

When the call of the Exalted One reached his noble ear, that revered martyr answered "Yes" to the divine call "Am I not your Lord?", became intoxicated with the wine of the love of God, and awaited the Great Glad-Tidings. When the morn of oneness dawned and the Sun of Truth shone forth and the horizons were illumined with the lights of the All-Merciful, with a radiant face and a merciful heart and spiritual attraction he turned toward the Luminary of the horizons and sought his portion from its dawning.  AB00857

From your early youth, nay from your tender age, you turned to your Lord and answered the call of your Master when it was raised between earth and heaven. You were attracted by the holy fragrances wafting from the garden of eternity, and were set ablaze with the fire of the love of God among His chosen ones... You sacrificed yourself completely for His martyred loved ones, and you sacrificed your affairs and the worthless things of this world and all you possessed in the lower realm in the path of God.   AB00594

I testify that thou didst answer thy Lord when His call was raised between earth and heaven, and thou didst fulfill thy covenant and pledge in such wise that neither the veils of glory withheld thee from the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, nor the barriers of names from God, the Creator of heaven. Blessed art thou for having remained steadfast in the Cause when most feet did slip, and the hearts of men were troubled - they who cast the command of God behind their backs and followed every heedless doubter.  BH01019

Verily I inform thee of that by which thy breast will be dilated with joy, thy heart will rejoice and thy soul will be delighted in every time and moment. And it is this, that verily thy honoured wife, who journeyed unto God and hastened unto the Blessed Spot, her heart ignited with the fire of the love of God and her sight and gaze extended toward the Kingdom of El Abha, was firm in the Testament, and was overtaken by death in the land of Beirut, is now attracted to "The Living One who shall never die."   AB03592

O My Pen! Make mention of him who loved Me with words that will set ablaze the hearts of all created things and illumine all contingent beings. Say: The Glory shining forth from the mouth of God's loving-kindness, the Lord of all worlds, be upon thee, O thou who wast named Muhammad before Husayn, before the throne of thy Lord, the Most High, the Most Great. I testify that thou didst cast away idle fancies and didst hold fast unto certitude when the Lord of the Day of Judgment came with manifest sovereignty.  BH02972

This is Thy servant who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs and been illumined by Thy glory. He hath discovered Thy mysteries and believed in Thy most exalted beauty and sought shelter beneath the shadow of Thy Sadratu'l-Muntaha and drunk to the full at the hands of the Cup-bearer of bounty. Eventually, he was attracted to the fragrances of Thine all-glorious Kingdom and hastened unto Thy Divine Presence and stood before Thy face, lowly, submissive, shaken, enkindled, enraptured and hearkening to Thy Call.   AB01296

Among them, O my God, was Thy servant Fattah, for whom Thou didst open the gates of knowledge, immerse in the sea of grace and bounty, and illuminate his heart with the light of certitude until he took shelter under the shade of the word of Thy oneness, drank from the ocean of the mention of Thy singleness, dwelt near the house of Thy divinity, and was content with Thy good-pleasure until he ascended unto Thee, arrived at the gate of Thy generosity and forgiveness, attained the meeting, and drank the cup of fidelity.  AB00281

His last resting-place is in Tihran. Although his body lies under the earth, his pure spirit lives on, in the seat of truth, in the presence of the potent King. I long to visit the graves of the friends of God, could this be possible. These are the servants of the Blessed Beauty; in His path they were afflicted; they met with toil and sorrow; they sustained injuries and suffered harm. Upon them be the glory of God, the All-Glorious. Unto them be salutation and praise. Upon them be God's tender mercy, and forgiveness.  AB00002

His honor Nabil-i-Qabil-'Ali--may my spirit be a sacrifice for his ecstasy--rose like the morning star from that horizon and so shone with the lights of the knowledge of God that he illumined those regions. What afflictions and trials he endured in the path of God, and what hardships and calamities he suffered in his love for God, until he became homeless and a wanderer far from his native land. At last he took refuge beneath the shadow of divine grace and hastened to the Supreme Concourse in the precincts of God's mercy.  AB11687

Blessed is he who enters the garden and remembers God, his Lord, the All-Merciful. O party of the Wronged One, when you reach his gate, say: The fragrant breezes which bring glad-tidings through thy flowers and blossoms be upon thee, O righteous servant, and the resplendent light. I testify that thy traces in the garden bear witness to thy presence, thy life, and thy steadfastness in serving God, thy Lord, the All-Merciful. I testify that thou art living in the Most Exalted Horizon and art mentioned in the Crimson Tablet.  AB03852

he held fast to the sure handle and acknowledged the shining of Your light from the highest horizon and arose to serve You among the people and strove a praiseworthy striving until he might attain an abundant reward and drink from a cup whose mixture was camphor, and he bore the blame of the base ones and the gloating of enemies, and he neither grew anxious nor frightened from the attack of foes; he spoke the truth and uttered honesty and submitted to Your sovereignty with all effort and disavowed every wicked disbeliever  AB12150

He lived with a pure face, a clear heart, a sanctified soul, and a joyous spirit in Thy mighty Dispensation and manifest Era. O Lord! He was set aflame by the fire of Thy love from the blessed Tree raised on the Sinai of Beauty, the Center of Glory - its oil would well-nigh shine even though no fire touched it. No blame of the blamer nor vengeance of the vengeful deterred him in his love for Thee. Rather, he sacrificed his spirit at every moment and feared not the might of kings nor the ranks and drawn swords of thousands.  AB12203

I testify at this moment that she turned unto Me when the horizon of the Manifestation appeared and responded when the call was raised between earth and heaven. She stood ready to serve the loved ones at eve and at dawn, at night and in the morning. Whenever a man or woman emigrant arrived, they found her to be an ocean of joy and a star of bounty. There was no traveler but remembered her before the presence, and no visitor but gave thanks for her and spoke well of her before the throne of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.  BH08252

Among them was Thy luminous handmaiden, the spiritual reality, the divine word, the celestial attraction, the radiant flame, the leaf of Thy wondrous Paradise, Thy submissive and humble handmaiden before Thy ancient light. She, O my God, was attracted by Thy radiance when the light of guidance dawned from the highest dayspring and the morn that illumined all horizons. She believed in Thee and Thy verses, gave glad tidings of Thy words, and was afflicted at every moment with tribulation and adversity from the people of hatred.  AB12089

The saints of Baha, may my life be a sacrifice to the dust of His martyrs, gaze down eagerly from on high and whenever they see patience and fortitude, strength and long suffering among such as follow in their footsteps. They glorify them saying proudly, 'Praise be to God that although we left the world of dust and flew to the kingdom of divinity those we left behind are faithful and steadfast in the Cause of God. The world of humanity is not bereft of this effulgence; the gathering of humankind still shines with this light'.   AB03286

Throughout his life in the divine path he was never safe from danger for a moment, and was constantly under threat of sword and blade, yet he showed no fear and did not shy away from great tribulation. He was courageous and fearless, luminous and radiant. He was imprisoned repeatedly and fell under chains and fetters, but never showed any weakness, and like a mighty mountain maintained perfect dignity and composure. For fifty years he was enthralled by the Kingdom of Beauty and sacrificed his life in the path of the All-Glorious.   AB01732

In his days, he was steadfast in his heart, resolute in his purpose, assured in his soul, radiating heavenly gladness, eloquent in his speech, wondrous in his utterance, powerful in proffering proofs with joy and radiance. How numerous were the evenings that he spent shackled by chains and bonds, and how many the days that he endured sorrows and hardships in the depths of the darkest of prisons while thankful for Thy favors, patient in the woes sent by Thee, reassured in his communion with Thee and proclaiming Thy sweet fragrances.   AB00818

The Lord of Manifestation in the Mount of knowledge, which is the prison-abode of the Desire of all worlds, maketh mention of thee... Mention was made in thy letter of several names, each of whom hath been honored with the verses of the Most Exalted Pen... We make mention of him who is named Muhammad-'Ali... We make mention of Muhammad-Husayn... The Countenance of the Ancient One hath turned toward thee from the direction of His Most Great Prison, remembering thee with a remembrance wherewith the books of the world have been adorned.  BH01037

The first fragrance wafting from the musk of inner meanings and utterance be upon thee, O thou who didst sacrifice thy soul in the path of the All-Merciful! I testify that thou didst cast away idle fancies and didst turn with the light of certitude to the Dawning-Place of inspiration, and the attraction of the Call drew thee to the supreme horizon in days wherein the fire of hatred blazed in the breasts of those who cast away godliness and denied God's proof, the Lord of all beings and the Lord of the Throne on high and of earth below.  BH01333

How fortunate a woman you were to have stepped into the cradle of existence in the age of the Ancient Beauty, to have grown and developed in the Most Great Century, to have been nurtured under the shade of the Tree of Providence, to have been guided by the light of guidance, to have heard the call of the Abha Beauty, to have turned your face toward the luminous countenance of the Sun of the Supreme Concourse, to have entered beneath the shadow of the Tree of the Covenant, and to have held fast to the pledge of the Luminary of the horizons.   AB04639

He was the first to carry Thy scriptures to other parts and spread those fragrances, O my God, and gladden the hearts of Thy loved ones with glad-tidings. When the affluent ones sent Thee, O my Beloved, to this destined prison and cut off news from those burning with the fire of deprivation in distant frontiers, that zealous messenger sought Thee out, undeterred by the censure of the masses, O my Forgiving Lord. He entered Thy Most Great Prison and came before Thee with a throbbing heart, burning breast, flowing tears and exhausted patience.  AB00599

O Crimson Leaf and Most Glorious Sign! I bear witness that through thee the fire of love and affection was kindled in the hearts of the servants. Thou art she who chanted in the nights and days the praise of God, the Lord of all beings. Thou art she who heard the Call in the beginning of days, and the attraction of the utterance of the All-Merciful seized thee in such wise that thy heart was melted and thy very being was set ablaze. Through thee appeared the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree and the cry of the Kingdom was raised amongst creation.  BH00124

Among them was Thy servant Husayn, who believed in Thee and Thy verses, was attracted by the signs of Thy oneness, was enchanted by Thy beauty, and was bewildered by the manifestations of Thy might and majesty, until he migrated unto Thee, arrived at Thy holy court, and took shelter under the shadow of the King of Thy Lordship... He sought refuge in Thy protection, lived beneath Thy shadow, found tranquility in Thy remembrance, and his heart was gladdened by Thy favors. He remained firm in Thy Covenant and Testament, served Thy Most Holy and Exalted Threshold   AB01527

O Karim! Verily My servant Asdaq has a great station with thy Lord. He is among those who attained recognition of God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, in the beginning of the Cause. We have mentioned him in the Books and Psalms and remember him in My days. Thy Lord is verily the Kind, the Forgiving. Blessed is he who found companionship with him in his lifetime and visited him after his passing. My Most Exalted Pen testifies that he perceived My fragrance, hastened to My Cause in My direction, and arose to serve this Cause whereby every firm edifice was shaken.   BH00483

Make mention in this station of him who drank the wine of certitude and attained the Companion, who believed in the Lord of all beings when the people of tyranny and oppression denied Him. He was named Muhammad-'Ali in the Book of Names...Thou art he whom the might of the oppressors deterred not from drawing nigh unto God, the Lord of lords, and whom the veils of the transgressors prevented not from gazing toward His Most Luminous Horizon. Thou didst shatter the idol of vain imaginings with the arm of certitude and illumine thy heart with the light of the knowledge of God  BH01808

The first light that shone forth and gleamed from the horizon of the heaven of the mercy of our Lord, the Master of creation, and the first splendor that flashed and glowed from the dawning-place of the will of the Lord of the Throne and earth be upon thee, O thou who hast turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon when those who dwell in the realm of creation turned away from it. I testify that thou didst take hold of the Book of God with power from Him and might from His presence, and didst believe in it and hasten unto it until thou didst enter and present thyself at the Gate.  BH01250

We have desired at this time to make mention of the Friend who hath ascended unto God, the Almighty, the All-Praised. Before his ascension We revealed for him that which brought solace to the eyes of them that are nigh unto God, and after his ascension We mentioned him from My Most Exalted Pen in such wise that the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the Most Sublime Paradise welcomed it, as bidden by the Ancient Commander. O Friend! We have desired to make mention of thee at this time once again, as a mercy from Us--verily thy Lord is the Most Merciful of the merciful ones.  BH01222

Mr. Mirza Mahdi Ikhvan-i-Safa devoted his life to the exaltation of the Word of God. He never rested for a moment, constantly traveling from city to city and village to village. He was a detached soul possessing an attracted spirit, with a pure and goodly heart and an eloquent tongue. Patient in tribulations, he occupied himself with the guidance of souls. Therefore, that pure spirit was cherished and respected in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Baha, nay rather, in the Concourse on High. Though his worth and station are unknown at present, they shall soon become manifest and apparent.   AB00378

And as for what you wrote concerning the honored and forgiven departed father - upon him be the ocean of God's care and mercy - in truth this servant is powerless to describe his station and offer fitting praise, for whatever might be said would not be worthy, as he was among those souls who were illumined and adorned by the lights of the sun of steadfastness. Such expressions of favor have been shown regarding him that every pen is incapable and falls short of their mention. A house has been built for him by the hands of grace that the passing of ages and centuries cannot alter.   BH01175

Praise be to God that thou art related to one who was renowned for service at the Most Holy Court and known for servitude at the Threshold. At the first dawning of the light he became illumined by its radiant effulgence, and at the beginning of the Call he uttered the word "yea." He became so intoxicated with the wine of "Am I not your Lord?" that, dancing and clapping and waving his arms, he rushed to the field of sacrifice and gave up his life in the path of the Beloved. He set from the horizon of this world and, like the morning star, rose from the dawning-place of the Kingdom.  AB07917

The favored servant of the Kingdom, Mr. Hannen, that pure and spotless soul, was the first self-sacrificing person in the path of the Merciful One. At night he was restless and during the day he was untiring. Not a moment did he rest and all his lifetime was consecrated to the service of the Kingdom. In the assemblage of Thy friends he was an active member and in the gathering of Thy favored ones an enkindled torch. In the horizon of guidance he twinkled like a radiant star and in the Abha Paradise he appeared a magnificent palm. He was an illumined soul, merciful, kingly, lordly.   AB01490

Mrs. Hearst has hastened from this dark and dreary world to the realm of Light; and has become detached from this nether world and has flown into the realm on High. O my God! Endowed with a seeing eye, she beheld the rays of the Sun of Truth and endowed with a hearing ear, she hearkened to the call of the Kingdom. Possessing a keen sense of smell, she inhaled the fragrant scent of the Paradise of Abha, and gifted with a pure heart she overflowed with Thy love. From the Far West, she journeyed to the Holy Land, attained the privilege of visiting the Sacred Spot and served Thy Kingdom.  AB02673

Mr. Chase was of the blessed souls. The best time of his life was spent in the path of God. He had no other aim except the good pleasure of the Lord and no other desire except the attainment to the Kingdom of God. During his lifetime he bore many trials and vicissitudes, but he was very patient and long-suffering. He had a heart most illuminated, a spirit most rejoiced; his hope was to serve the world of humanity; during the days of his life he strove as much as he could-he never failed-until he witnessed the lights of the Kingdom of ABHA, and he was guided by the lights of Guidance.   ABU1614

O My Most Exalted Pen! Make mention of him who was named Ahmad, who detached himself from all else save Me and turned toward My horizon, who bore hardships in My path and heard the taunts of the enemies for My sake in My days, who sought the Ultimate Goal and the Most Exalted Horizon, who traversed the path to attain the presence of the Glorious One and to hearken unto the proof and evidence from the tongue of his Lord, the Mighty, the Beautiful, until he arrived at the Prison and stood before the Gate, and heard the Call with his own ear and beheld the Most Exalted Horizon with his own eye.  BH00522

Among them was Thy meek servant of pure heart, named Ibrahim, who heard the call and responded to the summons, rent asunder the veils and pierced the coverings, dispelled doubts and recited the decisive verses. His soul found peace through Thy proof and evidence, his fears were calmed by Thy power and sovereignty, his eyes were gladdened by witnessing Thy mighty signs, his ears delighted in hearing the melodies of the Dove in the gardens of praise, his heart was expanded by knowledge of Thee, gladdened by love of Thee, his strength increased in Thy service and his back bent in worship of Thee.  AB00463

She proclaimed Thy remembrance among the maidservants, her eyes were gladdened by witnessing Thy greatest signs, her ears delighted in hearing Thy call from the highest horizon, and her nostrils were perfumed by inhaling the fragrance of faithfulness from the most glorious garden. She did naught but turn to Thy generous face, draw from Thy mighty announcement, and drink from the deep and vast ocean. She spoke with the most excellent utterance, her spontaneous eloquence flowed forth as she gave glad tidings of the brilliance of lights and appearance of mysteries among the women and the righteous.  AB11646

That blessed being, from the beginning of his growth and development, became intoxicated with the wine of the love of God, took in hand the cup of mystical knowledge, and in the rose-garden of certitude, distributed the crimson wine of the favors of the All-Merciful. In the love of God he was young, and in the knowledge of God he became a learned adult. In promoting the Cause he grew old and weak, and finally, with a radiant countenance, spiritual ecstasy, divine attraction and heavenly orientation, he hastened to the horizon of glory and found his place in the Abha Kingdom and the Supreme Companion.  AB12380

He who was named 'Abdu'llah in the Book of Names - we testify that he turned to the Lord of mankind in the earliest days when most in the land turned away, and we testify that he acknowledged what the Tongue of Grandeur spoke in the prison of 'Akka and before it, and recognized God, His sovereignty, His Manifestation, and His power amidst His world and His creation. He it is who endured hardships and tribulations out of love for God, the Lord of Names, and there befell him at the hands of the enemies that which caused the people of the pavilion of purity and chastity in the Most Exalted Paradise to weep.   BH01446

O ye survivors of two holy and blessed souls! Your letter was received. Its contents made clear and evident that through the protection and help of the Ancient Beauty ye remain, after the passing of his honour Sadiq, the august martyr's scion, firm and steadfast in the Cause of God. Ye are related to that servant of the Perspicuous Light, his honour Mishkin. That illustrious soul spent his whole life in humble, self-effacing, loving and sincere devotion to the Cause of God. He was the incarnation of spirit and the embodiment of light; and in outward perfections was distinguished from all his contemporaries.  AB00467

I testify that thou didst drink the choice wine of understanding from the hand of the bounty of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, and didst turn to the horizon of Manifestation and didst hear the call of Him Who conversed on Sinai when most of the servants turned away. Through thee the fragrances of love were diffused and a gate of the gates of Paradise was opened when the Tongue of God, the Mighty, the Bestower, spoke thy name. I testify that thou didst believe in God when the Light shone forth from the horizon of Manifestation and didst acknowledge what was sent down from the Pen of Revelation in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH01968

Although that bird of the nest of truth has taken flight to the Kingdom of mysteries and become the intimate companion of the Concourse on High in the privacy of the Lord, and has been delivered from this dark and narrow world to hasten to the life-bestowing and expansive realm of the All-Merciful - indeed, though lifeless, he has become alive; though a nightingale full of sighs and laments, he has winged his way to the eternal rose garden; though aflame with thirst, he has been satisfied at the ocean of forgiveness; and though a moth consumed by the fire, he has ascended to circle round the candle of the Concourse on High   AB02064

And further, Khajih Rabi`, with his wondrous character, delivered most eloquent speeches, he had a powerful utterance, and thus invited the souls and guided them to the new Faith. As such, he occupied a sublime station. Pages have been written in their remembrance. And now concerning the faithful friend, Aqa Mirza Mihdi Akhavan ?afa, whose passing brought [me] infinite sadness, grief, anguish and sorrow. He was a mighty pillar, and had attained the station of utter nothingness before the Blessed Beauty. He breathed no breath but one blessed with Divine good pleasure, and he cherished no hope except that of service to His Cause.  AB01942

O thou who didst race in the arena of the love of God! The fragrance of thy Lord's robe, the Lord of all names, stirred thee until thou didst seek the Most Exalted Horizon to attain the presence of the Throne and stand before the Gate. Now We see thee sleeping while the Beloved hath come and remembereth thee with a remembrance at which the clouds weep. I testify that thou didst drink the choice wine of mystical knowledge from the hand of the bounty of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, and didst hear the call and respond and turn and hasten until thou didst enter the noble station by the leave of God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds.   BH04313

His Honor Akhund Mulla 'Ali held an exalted station in this dispensation and was distinguished among the righteous for his steadfastness and firmness. For from the dawning of the morn of guidance, he rent asunder his collar in love for the Exalted One, tore away the veil and lifted the covering. He became bewildered and enchanted as a kind friend, and lost in the wilderness of the love of God. In the path of God's good-pleasure he endured successive afflictions and bore consecutive calamities. Throughout his life he never drew an easy breath, and from beginning to end he sacrificed himself, finding joy and delight in self-sacrifice.   AB03414

He was from the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree and a kinsman of the Exalted One, the Bab, may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him. From earliest childhood, signs of intelligence and wisdom, and evidences of understanding and discernment, were manifest in his blessed countenance. Even as an infant in the cradle, signs of nobility were apparent upon his brow. When he reached adolescence, both friends and strangers alike observed distinguished qualities in his bearing and were amazed by his conduct. Having received an excellent upbringing, he strove with the utmost zeal and determination to acquire both material and spiritual perfections.   AB00193

Concerning the ascension of His honor ?adru'?-?udur which thou didst write about - that lamp of light and one who acquired the flame of Sinai truly dedicated his days to serving the Forgiving Lord and persisted in servitude to His Divine Unity. He brought souls to life and set many free. He established classes for teaching and instructed with an eloquent and wondrous tongue. This foundation is eternal and will continue in succession, and his noble spirit will remain forever joyous and steadfast in the world of mysteries. His blessed name will raise such a melody in the world's assemblies that it will set the divine birds in motion and flight.   AB00368

The Wronged One wisheth to make mention of him who loved Him and spoke His praise and turned unto His countenance when they that wear white turbans and they of the green domes turned away... Blessed art thou, O 'Abdu'r-Rahim! Thou didst hear My call and turn to My horizon, and didst soar in My atmosphere and speak My praise in My days, and didst prostrate thyself before My countenance and humble thyself before My sovereignty, and wert assured of My Manifestation and My verses, and didst hearken unto My words and attain the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of My bounty, and didst arise to serve Me amongst My servants and to assist My loved ones.  BH05288

Your noble uncle, the venerable Haji Hasan, with a countenance bright as the moon, would day and night burn with passion in the gathering of the enamored and the assembly of the devoted. At times, from the intensity of the fire of the love of God, he would blaze like a flame and consume the veils of the frozen ones, and at times, like the spring rain with weeping eyes, he would begin to cry and lament. Though he never attended any school for lessons and learning, he was a sugar-breaking parrot of knowledge and understanding. Though he was raised in a merchant's chamber, in the gathering of divine knowledge he would speak with utmost eloquence and grace.   AB00239

O Pen of the Most Ancient Being! Make mention of him who turned towards the Most Great Prison, who circled round the Throne, and who sacrificed himself for God, the Lord of all worlds. He is now in the All-Glorious Horizon and the Supreme Companion, and was named Mahdi in the kingdom of creation - he who heard the Call when it was raised betwixt earth and heaven, who turned unto the Countenance, and who took hold of the Book with the power of God, the Sovereign Lord, the Mighty, the All-Praised. He ascended unto God as a stranger and was buried in His vicinity, whereupon the Ocean of Pre-existence shed upon him that which the creatures are powerless to describe.   BH00923

Among them was the Fire-Dragon of the Cause and the Lion of the thickets of bounty, the Dove of the gardens of knowledge, who believed in Thee and Thy verses from his tender youth, who was nourished at the breast of Thy favor from the beginning of his life, who was reared in the cradle of Thy love and grew and developed in the bosom of Thy knowledge. He became intoxicated with the wine of understanding and was inebriated with the choice wine of certitude while yet a suckling child among his peers. When he reached maturity and attained his full strength, the fire of Thy love blazed forth within him and the waves of the ocean surged through the winds of Thy knowledge.  AB00110

He was born in the cradle of chastity and perfection, suckled at the breast of love, infallibility, and beauty, and was reared in the lap of guidance, growing up in the embrace of piety and righteousness until he reached maturity. Then he was drawn to the Supreme Concourse, speaking words of praise, glorification, and thanksgiving, his tongue engaged in extolling the reality of Thy oneness and the essence of Thy singleness among all people. He became renowned in that noble homeland for every virtue that spread and became known in the fairest of regions, until both high and low bore witness that he was the sign of piety and the banner of faithfulness in that luminous spot.  AB00133

We testify that she departed from her home, turning toward the Supreme Horizon, and traversed deserts, mountains, land and sea until she arrived at the fortified City mentioned in the Books and Tablets, and attained the presence of the Face, and was blessed with what God had revealed in His Books. We testify that she believed in God and His signs, and responded when the Call was raised between earth and heaven, and drank the cup of reunion from the hands of the bounty of her Lord, the Self-Sufficing, the Most Exalted, and heard what the near ones heard on the Mount of Knowledge, and saw what eyes and visions were prevented from seeing, save whom God, the Lord of lords, willeth.  BH02066

In the days when the Ancient Beauty was residing in the palace, the aforementioned departed one took flight to the Supreme Companion at the first light of dawn on the twentieth day of Rabi'u'l-Avval. That very night, the Most Great Branch - may my spirit, my being and my essence be sacrificed for the dust of His footsteps - visited his home and remained with him for some time. This was one of the special bounties that was bestowed upon him. The next day when news reached the palace, at that very moment the Most Great Branch and the other Branches - may my spirit and being be sacrificed for the dust of their footsteps - by command proceeded on foot to accompany the funeral procession.   BH00492

O thou who hast believed in God, gained certitude in His signs, testified to the truth of His words, were consumed by the fire of His love, radiated with the light of His Oneness, and were illumined by the Sun of His Mercy. I testify that thou hast believed in the Essence of the Desired One, were set ablaze by the fire lit in the tree of existence, reached the station of elucidation and inspiration, soared on the wings of the Unity of God to the zenith of existence and gained sustenance from the Most Praised Station, the Nearness to God. Thou hast served The Cause of Thy Lord, struggled in the pathway of The Beloved and were guided to the Fashioner, who created thee and gave thee distinction.  AB05938

Your servant Andalib, the beloved one, has acknowledged Your oneness and confessed Your singleness, and has answered Your call with passionate attraction to the threshold of Your mercy... He did not falter in exalting Your Word and establishing proof and evidence for the seekers, and manifested with clear signs and authority for those who yearned. He endured every hardship in his familiar homeland and was compelled to migrate to the Center of Manifestation... In the corner of obscurity he endured every hardship and withering while his heart was aflame with the fire of Your love, his tongue speaking Your remembrance, and his talent flowing with Your praise and attributes among Your loved ones.  AB03043

He is God! I plead for forgiveness for the holy, assured leaf, the handmaiden of God, the consort of the Best-Beloved of Martyrs, upon her be the Most Glorious Beauty of God. Allah-u-Abha! My God, my God! This is a leaf who was stirred by the fragrances wafting from the gardens of Thy Lordship, and this is a handmaiden who was illumined by the lights that shone and gleamed from the horizon of Thy Divinity. She believed in Thy Beauty, acknowledged Thy words, sought clarity in Thy proofs, witnessed Thy signs, and was related to a tree that grew in the garden of Thy knowledge, became verdant through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy mercy, blossomed with the flowers of Thy bestowal, and bore the fruits of Thy love.  AB01226

O pure soul, Emily Knobloch! Though thou didst take flight from this dusty world, thou didst enter the luminous realm. Thou didst hear the divine call and beheld the light of truth. Through the breathing of the Holy Spirit thou wast given life, and thou didst taste the honey of the love of God. Thou didst become a handmaiden of the Lord of Hosts, became the cause of guiding souls, and wert the recipient of the favors of the Desired One. Thou didst guide the wayward and granted a portion of the heavenly feast to the deprived. Thou didst dedicate thy days of life to service to the All-Glorious Lord and engaged in diffusing the fragrances of the Most Glorious Paradise. How many souls were perfumed and how many hearts were illumined!  AB03687

Upon thee be the glory of God and upon thee be the peace of God, O thou who hast believed in God and His signs, who hast acknowledged His words, who hast clung to the hem of His robe and held fast to the fringes of the garment of His grandeur. I testify that thou hast been faithful to the Covenant, that thy face hath been illumined by the light of the Lamp of the horizons, that through thee the eyes of the people of constancy have been gladdened, that thy heart hath found peace through the dawning of the light that hath spread through the seven layers, and that the resurrection of tears hath been established for thee in that thou wert made to suffer in the path of God, wert tried in thy love for God, and didst achieve martyrdom in thy steadfastness in the Covenant.  AB09046

The resplendent Remembrance from the horizon of the Kingdom and the radiant Light from the heaven of might be upon thee, O My handmaiden and My leaf, who hath spoken My praise, turned unto My horizon, soared in My atmosphere, clung to My cord and held fast to the hem of My loving-kindness and mercy. Thou art she who turned unto the Most Exalted Horizon when the Creator of the heavens came with the kingdom of names, and who hearkened when the Most Sublime Pen raised its shrill voice, and who hastened unto the ocean of knowledge when the concourse of divines and rulers held back. Blessed art thou, O mother of My loved ones and she who hath shown kindness to My chosen ones. I testify that thy heart was a dawning-place of the love of God, thy tongue a source of His remembrance, and thy breast His view.   BH00595

O Most Exalted Leaf, mentioned in the Crimson Book! Thou art she whom God created to arise for the service of His Own Self, the Manifestation of His Cause, the Dawning-Place of His Revelation, the Dayspring of His signs, and the Source of His laws. He strengthened thee in such wise that thou didst turn wholly unto Him when the servants and handmaidens turned away. Thou didst hear His most sweet call and didst respond to it, and thou wert with Him in all conditions, until thou didst migrate from the Land of ?a to Zawra, and from Zawra to the Land of Mystery, and thence to this Prison. Thou wert, during the nights and days, blessed with His presence, gazing upon His countenance, circling round His throne, hearing His call, dwelling in His house, clinging to His cord, and holding fast to the hem of the robe of His bounty and grace.   BH01106

"His name was Mollah Salek Mogaddass. He was one of the learned men of Persia and when he became a believer he devoted his knowledge and erudition to the propagation of the Movement. With an unprecedented zeal and holy enthusiasm he upheld the teachings of the Bab and he was destined to play a most important part in the development of the Movement he became the object of the attack of the enemies. In Shiraz they did ran a cord through his nose and paraded him through the streets and Bazaars. He followed the spiritual destiny of the Cause and at last he was besieged by the royal army with the rest of the Babis in the famous fortress of Tabarassi in Mazanderan. Those who are slightly familiar with that dramatic or tragic episode know the privations and sufferings they had to go through. Finally when they were released and put to death he was one of the very few who was given freedom. Later on he came to Acca and visited the Blessed Perfection."  ABU1369

Therefore be thankful that during his lifetime that clear-sighted one never hurt anyone's feelings nor uttered a word that would sadden any heart. He was always kind to all creation and served all humanity with heart and soul.   AB04256
The candle of that departed one is lit in the niche of that household and family.  AB12824
 
