
Blessed is he who hath caused his will to be annihilated in My will   BH07193

When man attains to the station of renunciation and loses entirely his I-hood his existence is identical with non-existence and a splendor of the Being of the True One is cast upon him. Then he shall discern with the Eye of God, hear with the ears of the True One, and become like unto the iron, which when cast in the fire loses its qualities of coldness, blackness and solidity, and the characteristics of fire such as heat, redness and glowing will become apparent and manifest in it.  AB08891

your submergence in the sea of evanescence in God   AB07030

O thou who prostrateth thyself at the threshold of the Ancient Beauty! Prostration is evidence of the absence of being-that is, of utter humility, evanescence and nothingness.  AB09394

Evanescence, evanescence, evanescence! Annihilation, annihilation, annihilation! This is the magnet that attracts divine confirmations. AB12152

Your pen must be the interpreter of this servant's pen, and whatever flows from this pen must stream from that pen - that is, in mentioning this servant's servitude, your pen will, God willing, become a mighty sign. This is what He says: "Until you are annihilated from the description of existence, O wayfarer, how can you taste the wine of immortality from the sweet ruby lips of the Beloved?" AB02001

This is the arena of self-annihilation, of a hundred thousand acts of self-immolation, of being melted in pure love.   AB04400

One of the requirements of faithfulness is that thou mayest sacrifice thyself and, in the divine path, close thine eye to every pleasure and strive with all thy soul that thou mayest disappear and be lost, like unto a drop, in the ocean of the love of God.  AB11425

he must be in the utmost evanescence and self-effacement   AB04273

That station is absolute evanescence in the Blessed Beauty   AB06350

mayest become wholly devoted and effaced in the Cause of God  AB11134

"utter effacement, evanescence and extinction at the Sacred Court"   AB00851

One should be...evanescence itself, healed of the maladies of the self  AB09838

The only abiding one is He whose shade overshadoweth the world of eternity.  AB07492

lost without name or trace in the wilderness of evanescence and nothingness   AB11380

this great sacrifice is a sign of sacrifice which means absolute evanescence  AB06802

so that none may be seen except Thee, and no soul may turn to aught but Thee   BH05799

What have I chosen except annihilation in Thee and subsistence through Thee?   BB00290

that all things may be merged into nothingness before the revelation of Thy Splendour.   AB06211

When evanescent, you will become eternal. When evanescent, you will become everlasting.  ABU1976

in such wise that his will may be annihilated in Thy will and his purpose in Thy purpose   BH07898

This intoxication hath no hangover, and this existence hath no annihilation or extinction  AB06384

Ere long shall ye drink the cup of evanescence from the hand of the cupbearer of eternity   BH01251

We are killed by Thy love, extinguished in our separation from Thee, annihilated in Thy Name.  BH11587

the sign that indicates evanescence and extinction before the manifestation of any of Thy signs  AB11850

strive in the ocean of effacement... the breeze of faithfulness blows from the realm of eternity   BH03078

All things have testified to my evanescence and Thy permanence, to my powerlessness and Thy might   BH10633

We are all drunk with annihilation, We are all the light of glory, We are all the spirit of eternity   BH04013

The mystery of annihilation is true permanence and the demise of life in this context its real meaning.  AB00928

Whosoever becometh more evanescent becometh more lasting, and whosoever becometh poorer becometh richer.  AB06326

if you desire an imperishable kingdom, enter beneath the shade of the Lote Tree of poverty and evanescence   AB06254

"The Birds of Eternity have returned to their nest, We have remained downtrodden and abject here on earth."   BH02406

The fragrance of self-effacement and evanescence in the path of the Most Glorious Beauty was wafting from it.   AB04115

As much as thou art able, compose quintets of servitude, sextets of submissiveness, and octets of pure evanescence  AB09320

But now thou art intoxicated with this cup and art a wine-worshipper in the tavern of servitude and self-effacement.  AB05704

souls may appear who are truly worthy and deserving of the Blessed Cause - who are completely effaced and evanescent   AB01796

The secret of divine mysteries and the divine secret is servitude at the threshold and self-effacement and evanescence.   AB07220

Under all conditions we must remain evanescent in God. But we are evanescent in God and remain oblivious to all save Him.   ABU1687

for that which is evanescent hath no path into the arena of eternity that it may comprehend the degrees of everlasting glory  BH07857

"Set aside what thou desirest and take what thy Lord desireth." This is the station of true evanescence and spiritual oneness.  BH07310

Sometimes you will hasten to the heights of evanescence, sometimes you will race into the depths of effacement and nothingness  AB04686

In servitude, you are my confidants and intimates, and in self-effacement and evanescence, you are of one voice and one melody.  AB06758

so that the form of the clot of blood, after ascending the heights of annihilation, might be honored with the robe of everlasting life   BH02404

They yearned for evanescence out of longing for reunion with Thee, and forsook the lowest depths in their quest for the highest zenith.   AB03311

Evanescence, evanescence, evanescence! Annihilation, annihilation, annihilation! This is the magnet that attracts divine confirmations.   AB12152

in this consuming lies the finding of an eternal life, and in this evanescence the essence of everlasting existence is ordained and realized  AB10532

That is to say man must become evanescent in God - must forget his own selfish conditions that he may thus arise to the station of sacrifice  AB10703

One is to forfeit possessions, to forfeit estates. One is to forego name, honor, fame. One is to forsake relatives, station, Et Cetera, et cetera  ABU3419

O ye who are intoxicated with the wine of the divine covenant, know ye the value of this bounty and special favor, and be moved to joy and delight.  AB05642

whatever thou seest will perish and pass away in an instant, while that which is with God remaineth and perisheth not, and endureth and fadeth not away  BH03210

freely sacrifice both soul and heart in the path of the Most Glorious Beauty, tasting the poison of annihilation as if it were the honey of immortality   AB06366

whosoever hath become evanescent from self will attain unto everlasting life in God - that is, he will circle eternally round the Truth in all the worlds   BH03859

This station is achieved through detachment and attraction, through effacement and evanescence, through love and kindness, and through peace and harmony towards all humanity.  AB08845

When the wayfarer reaches this most exalted and supreme station, firstly no anger arises in him that he should need to suppress it, and no self remains that should need to forgive  AB06368

We should enlighten our eyes by observing the gleaming of its hidden pearls and treasured gems, and learn the way of non-existence and evanescence and effacement and obliteration.  AB01446

O Lord! Give me to drink from the cup of evanescence, clothe me in the robe of evanescence, immerse me in the sea of evanescence, and make me as dust in the pathway of Thy loved ones  AB03082

One must forget one's own conditions and attain to the station of utter evanescence, otherwise the observation of existence will ultimately lead to polytheism and manifest infidelity.  AB08261

Thy will must be connected to what God willeth, and thy desire must be annihilated in His desire - that is, thou must regard God's will as thy desire and His wish as thy purpose.  BH01030

After ascending beyond the stations of annihilation and reaching the dawning-places of eternity, thou shalt become the cupbearer on the carpet of sanctification and drink the chalice of divine unity.  BH02034

The sincere servants should in no aspect, whether outward or inward, be focused on themselves, but rather should in truth observe themselves in all degrees to be utter nothingness and pure evanescence  BH01980

Thus fame or oblivion, honor or degradation are one and the same to those Gems of existence. Indeed, their ultimate desire is selfless devotion to the one true God and absolute nothingness in His court.  ABU1989

Then attract him through the melodies of the Source of Thy Revelation to such a station wherein he may become wholly annihilated in Thy good-pleasure and hopeful of what Thou hast ordained in Thy tablets.   BH01165

In this Day, they who attribute themselves to God must be seen as evanescent in themselves and abiding in God - that is, they must seek no desire save His desire and move according to His Will and Purpose.   BH06851

If the pure handmaidens and assured believers were certain of the existence and permanence of God, they would not fear their own non-existence and evanescence, nor would they be saddened by any vicissitudes.   BH05687

O my Lord! Preserve me within the shelter of Thy great mercy, then cause me to speak Thy praise amidst the concourse of creation in such wise that I may become forgetful of myself and evanescent in Thy Name.   BH00986

thou mayest find thine own will as nothing before His, and thine limited purpose, thy personal wishes and thy own good pleasure as a mirage, as a mere drop when face to face with the unlimited ocean of His absolute Purpose   AB06307

In God alone do we seek refuge from a falling off after this bright ascent, from ashy sleep after enkindlement, from a darkness after having seen the light and from a veiling once again after the blessed sight of God's own mysteries.   AB02746

Make my hope Thy remembrance, my deed Thy praise, my purpose Thy purpose, and my good-pleasure Thy good-pleasure, that I may be effaced from myself and endure through Thy Name, the Ever-Abiding, the Everlasting, the Mighty, the All-Wise   BH07118

For all people, from kings to subjects, eternal illumination, everlasting spirituality, and perpetual existence lie in accepting the divine Cause, and likewise their worldly glory, comfort and freedom depend upon entering the divine Cause.  ABU0774

As much as thou canst, compose quintains of servitude, sextains of submissiveness, and octaves of pure effacement and nothingness, for like the fatted fowl of Paradise they are delicious and tasty, provided no other dish is mixed therewith.  AB09320

Therefore do I testify, O my God, that I am evanescent, and have no power of mention or praise befitting Thy most exalted Self, nor can there appear from one who is evanescent that which can ascend unto Him Who abideth through His own being.   BH03234

The essential realities of the loved ones have perished from a single cry of the Bird of Divine Jealousy, and the radiant beings of the companions have ascended to the realm of evanescence from half a surge of the seas of the Presence of the Eternal.  BH10655

the entire passage deals with self-extinction (fana) in God's will, particularly: "become extinct from thine own good-pleasure" and "caused his own will and purpose and good-pleasure to become extinct in the will and purpose and good-pleasure of God"   BH09290

In the paradise of God and the garden of Abha a station hath been ordained which is the utmost desire of those who are nigh unto God, and that is nothingness in all conditions and complete self-surrender in the path of Him Who hath no peer or likeness.  AB08600

Whatever you do and show forth and strive and boil and cry out, you will become like those who came before - meaning no trace or fruit will remain enduring and established - unless you become bewildered by that Beauty and yearning for that brilliant Moon.  AB01580

Existence becometh annihilated and the nil taketh on the hues of eternity, If the Invisible emergeth from the veil of His enrapturing Call. Every covetous heart disappeareth into self-effacement, If it catcheth just one glimpse of the flame of His enrapturing Call.   BH02479

"Release yourselves from this world's life, and at every stage long ye for non-existence; for when the ray returneth to the sun, it is wiped out, and when the drop cometh to the sea, it vanisheth, and when the true lover findeth his Beloved, he yieldeth up his soul."  AB01189

The requirements of servitude are purity of intention and complete effacement and self-abnegation. That is, in all conditions one must manifest absolute effacement, utter poverty and complete sacrifice, such that no trace or vestige of one's existence and being remaineth.  AB08940

First It offered the chalice of annihilation to the concourse of lovers, Then It made them immortal by the breath of the Spirit. Shouldst Thou hide Thy face from the world for but a twinkling of an eye, Every trace of immortality would disappear and the world would perish.  BH03242

O companion, thy friend says that the comfort of existence needs a stroll free from the contamination of limitations, so that like the Phoenix of the West it may raise its head from the East of the soul and soar in the holy air of the spirit which is the city of the soul.   BH01489

Extinction is the gate to immortality, and immortality the gate to extinction. Non-existence is the door to existence, and existence the door to non-existence. The blessed word "All things shall perish save His Face" is a source of patience and solace for the peoples of the world.  BH02190

I was struck with wonder at beholding its effulgent rays and observing its traces, became oblivious of all save God, and was immersed in the oceans of God's mercy. And now I am conscious of naught but my Beloved, nor have I any scope to turn to or be occupied with aught but my Purpose.  AB07731

I hope that we may attain to this station, become utterly effaced and non-existent, completely annihilated and obliterated, so that we may follow the example of that leader of the righteous ones and emerge from the realm of immortality, the supreme horizon, and the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB04285

I yearn to be immersed in the depths of annihilation through the dissolution of manifest reality and effacement at the dawning of the Identity of the Divine Essence and the Oneness of Attributes, and absolute extinction which demands the obliteration of the extended shadow on the horizons.  AB04171

The time has come for thee to become poor and detached from all save God's manifestations, that the rays of absolute wealth may shine forth and existence, being, conditions, stations and determinations may be transformed into nothingness, so that the divine Sun of Being may shed its radiance.  AB10905

This poverty signifies nothingness and pure evanescence. Until man achieves the station of complete evanescence in the path of the All-Merciful, he will not attain pure eternality. For the shadow vanishes when the rays of the sun shine forth - the disappearance of the shadow is proof of the sun's shining.   AB06840

Come back and proffer a chalice to this thirsty cup-bearer; To this evanescent soul offer the vessel of immortal life. Consume this vanishing temple and go away in laughter, that through The window of the soul I may behold the cheek of the Beloved. Shelter this little poor man 'neath the shadow of evanescence.  BH05338

The sea of love is surging and this servant has now drunk the wine of eternity, and the pen has taken from his hand the reins of pause - whatever it wishes, it pours forth upon the page. But the wine of contingent existence is not worthy of this intoxication, and the realm of placelessness cannot contain this being.   BH04069

This is the Day wherein the chosen ones must fix their gaze upon the command of the All-Choosing One and must efface their own will before the Will of God. That is, after the issuance of the binding decree from the direction of the Fashioner of bones and the Lord of all nations, that very command must become the beloved thing.   BH01289

I have detached from all things except returning to Thee and have shut my eyes to every gift except lying beneath layers of dust and arriving before Thee, and have turned away from every blessing except returning to the station of evanescence and reaching the realm of nothingness where no sound or whisper of mine will be heard.  AB01222

How can I mention any but Thee, O my Beloved, after Thou hast given me to drink of the water of life in Thy knowledge? And how can I mention myself and its conditions after my awareness of Thy Being and Thy manifestations? By Thy might! It beseemeth not the non-existent to mention non-existence before Thy Ancient Self, O Everlasting One!  BB00081

For after the servant is effaced in the good-pleasure of the Worshipped One and the good-pleasure and desire of the lover is erased in the decree of the Beloved, the servant's good-pleasure becomes identical to the good-pleasure of the Worshipped One, and the Beloved's good-pleasure becomes the very reality of the lover's good-pleasure.   AB01529

For in that station the wayfarer, through the obliteration of multiplicity and the power of extinction, becomes free from all qualities of the Incomparable Lord and utters the words "We are God's and unto Him do we return." His existence is witness to Him, his servitude is his praiseworthy station, and complete annihilation is his ultimate goal.   AB03187

The reality of existence hopes for the stations of witnessing, and the essence and being of existence longs for nonexistence and annihilation, that perchance through the grace and bounty of the Peerless Lord it may be freed from this world of multiplicity and find its way into the life-giving expanse of the Lord and be guided to the Kingdom of sanctification.   AB05270

In the sixth, soar with the wings of submission and contentment to the city of the cloud of unknowing that thou mayest enter the wilderness of extinction, to be extinguished in that station from thine existence and abide through thy Creator. In the seventh, thou shalt arrive at the sea of eternal life where extinction shall never overtake thee and thou shalt find thy countenance abiding in the shadow of the Face of God, the Eternal.  BH02028

arise with such qualities and character that you become completely effaced and annihilated in the path of God - that is, no trace of self remains in you, like a dead body in the hands of the washer who moves it according to God's commands by God's will. The meaning of "like a dead body in the hands of the washer" is that no desire, intention, thought or remembrance remains for the person, and they become completely annihilated in the divine teachings and enchanted by the divine commands, moving with that power and acting according to those teachings and acquiring those qualities. This is the station of annihilation in God and subsistence through God.  AB03936

Draw the pen of nothingness across the luminous tablet of the heart that thou mayest plant the banner of existence above the mountain of power.  BH03778

From both separation and union pass away, To reach the origin's green fields, O youth today./ While in separation you're surely in fire's test, From union too comes fever and unrest./ Set foot upon eternity's pure ground, Where naught but Him in that field can be found./ If "We belong to God" you've truly read, Or "There is none but Him" fills your head,/ Place aspiration's foot upon this way, To be freed from union and parting's sway./ When you know certainly from soul's deep lore That none but God exists forevermore.  BH00108

Rules and customs are of the characteristics of the world of creation, while the world of command is sanctified and exalted above all such limitations. Therefore one must lift one's foot from the realm of nothingness and step into the realm of eternity, so that we may raise the banner of being in the heaven of non-being and comprehend the meaning of "All things perish save His face," and pass beyond the earthly homeland to return to the original divine homeland, of which "Verily we are God's and to Him we return" is indicative.  O my beloved! After ascending to the heavens of inner meanings, the wayfarers attain to three stations, meaning that the manifest Sun shines and becomes revealed in the mirrors of existing things according to these three ranks, although some consider the ranks of determinations to be five and have named them the five presences. Were I to explain in detail, a book would not suffice and I would not be able to fulfill it, just as that divine mystic and knower of divine mysteries, the lordly Imam, mentioned a drop from these stations in defining the world of the heart, which has surely come to your noble attention - that the final rank of these three stations is the journey from God unto God. In this station and rank, existence is effaced from self and subsists through the Truth. All are from God and unto God shall they return, and "Say: All things are from God" is sufficient witness and adequate proof of this point, as the mystic of Rum has said: "His attributes are annihilated in the attributes of Him While His essence remains through the survival of His essence." This station certainly has no rules and seeks no customs, meaning all His deeds are pure justice even if outwardly they appear as injustice, and pure knowledge even if in form they appear as ignorance. This station needs no explanation - it is manifest and evident. God willing, may we drink of the peerless wine of the Eternal Presence and be sustained by the effulgences of the beauty of the Countenance of the All-Glorious, that we may enter the Egypt of immortality and attain to the honor of the divine presence, so that we may comprehend all meanings without veil or covering.  BH02091

As to thy seeking and mentioning the recognition of reality, and saying "Will not my will unite with Thy will?" - the tongue should seek forgiveness of God for this utterance, for this station is one whereunto the recognition of the mystics, the knowledge of the learned, and the realities of those in earth and heaven cannot attain. He hath ever been, in the heights of inaccessibility, sanctified above all else but Himself, and will forever remain, in the summit of His exaltation, hallowed above all that is besides Him. No one hath known Him as He should be known, and no soul hath comprehended Him as He should be comprehended, for this station hath been and shall ever be sanctified and exalted. The Books and Scriptures have testified to His sanctification and transcendence. Whosoever today beholdeth and recognizeth the hidden treasure through the concealed Name, hath attained unto his own Paradise and Kingdom, and this is the utmost station of the servant's recognition within the realm of possibility. Beyond this the path is barred and seeking is rejected. His proof is His Revelation, and His evidence is His being established upon His mighty Throne.... Furthermore, no one's will hath ever been or shall ever be united with God's will, for the will of all hath been and shall ever be as nothingness before His will. The glory of existence is for one to make his own will fade away in God's will - that is, to have no will, thought or imagination of his own, but to move by God's will and act accordingly. Deem not this matter imaginary. Whosoever today hath drunk of the sealed wine and acted according to that which hath proceeded from the Source of Command, hath attained unto God's will, and he is of the people of truth. And whosoever remaineth veiled from this station is accounted among the dead, even should he manifest the knowledge and recognition of the ancients. BH01427
