
During the time that His Holiness the Exalted One lived in Bushihr and was in the trading business...  ABU3669

the Bab in the beginning of His revelation, due to the intensity of the effect of revealed verses, would pass days with just tea.  AB03269

I was raised among the Persians, and God revealed unto Me, after twenty-five years of My life had passed, verses which all are powerless to produce.  BB00330

A few days after your departure from this place, they will transfer Us to another mountain. Ere you arrive at your destination, the news of Our departure from Mah-Ku will have reached you.  BBU0011

The matter will be completed, God willing, with the divines when they appear on the Day of Arafat or the Day of Sacrifice for the mutual execration, for that was my judgment between them.   BB00489

The Bab who was then in the efflorescence of his youth was appointed in his place to manage the business of the office. His mustache was just beginning to grow and the signs of manhood appearing in his whole being.   ABU0296

The Bab - may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him - states that all these momentous events and the Greater Resurrection occurred in the twinkling of an eye and in but a moment, yet none perceived or became aware of it.   AB00052

At that time none believed in me save myself, but when one year had passed, God created beings who believed in me and who remembered My signs. Thus are ye tested on the Day of God's Manifestation. Therefore await ye the days wherein God shall manifest me soon [...] I shall appear by God's command, and days shall pass while ye know not.  BB00004

This is a day wherein those who turn to Thee do turn unto Thee. Through the Manifestations of Thy countenance in the most exalted Kingdom and the manifestations of the light of Thy face in every atom and less than that, until reaching the lowest atom, I bear witness before Thee and before those who are with Thee that Muhammad is Thy servant and Thy Messenger.  BB00617

The doctors, however, considered it advisable at least to inflict a severe chastisement, and beating was decided on. But none of the corps of farrashes would agree to become the instruments of the infliction of this punishment. So Mirza 'Ali-Asghar the Shaykhu'l-Islam, who was one of the noble Siyyids, brought Him to his own house and applied the rods with his own hand.  AB00003

In the name of Him Who is the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting. Inasmuch as He, at the inception of His manifestation, interpreted Himself through His own light and prefaced each surah with two verses from the Qur'an - thereby indicating that He is the Point of the Qur'an in the letter 'B' of the Bismillah, concerning which it is stated in the tradition that all things stand through Him   BB00170

the Promised One of the Bayan - may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him - was so clearly and manifestly described by the Bab that no one, neither secretly nor openly, neither inwardly nor outwardly, neither in meaning nor in form, was left with any excuse or pretext. He explicitly states: "Beware, beware lest thou be veiled by the Vahid of the Bayan or by what was revealed in the Bayan."   AB00082

Then We raised up the Sovereign of the Messengers, who was named Ali in all the tablets, and through him We opened the gates of grace unto the faces of all created things. We made him the herald of this Manifestation. He said: "O people! When the Beloved of the worlds cometh unto you, beware lest ye hesitate in His Manifestation and cling to what ye possess from the tidings of the ancients."  BH00705


Finally, the matter led to an ordeal of prayer. One night all the divines gathered in the shrine of the Prince of Martyrs, performed prayers and supplications, and in the end stood up and said "O God, if this Person is true, make it manifest," and this verse came: "And whoever turns away from My remembrance, his shall be a straitened life, and We will raise him up blind on the Day of Resurrection." The divines interpreted this to mean that "My remembrance" referred to the religious law because the Bab's title was "remembrance."   ABU0883

Remember, O people, when the Revealer of the Bayan came to you with novel and holy verses, saying: "I am the Gate of Knowledge, and whoso believeth concerning Me more than this hath indeed fabricated a calumny and earned for himself a grievous sin." Then He said: "I am verily the promised Qa'im Whose appearance was promised you in sacred scrolls." Then did He, exalted be His remembrance, declare: "I am the Primal Point, which is indeed Muhammad, the Messenger of God, as ye have heard and witnessed in the Tablets of God, the Sovereign, the All-Wise."   BH00376

The Bab declares that all these events occurred in a single moment. In the twinkling of an eye, fifty thousand years passed away. Paradise was unveiled. The gates of heaven were opened. The flames of hell were kindled. These are all signs of the Day of Resurrection. The Bab declares that in one moment these events transpired. In the twinkling of an eye fifty thousand years elapsed and all these events were made manifest, for these are spiritual and not physical occurrences. Thus does the Primal Point--may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him--declare: By God! The Hour hath come, and the moon hath been cleft asunder, and all are gathered to an inevitable assembly.  ABU0345

And after all know of these matters, if any scholar wishes to engage in mutual imprecation with me to establish truth and nullify falsehood according to what is revealed in the tradition from the suns of grandeur and majesty, I indeed love to manifest certainty in God's religion, and God suffices as a witness. And whoever among the scholars is able to produce a discourse to refute this bounty, it is incumbent upon them to produce it through innate capacity and power, or to acknowledge their inability and their Lord's favor. And whoever learns of this and does not come to help the Prophets and says [...] or does not stand in the station of mutual imprecation, their judgment is with God.  BB00214

So Husayn Khan ordered 'Abdu'l-Hamid Khan the high constable to attack the house of the Bab's maternal uncle at midnight on all sides, and to bring Him and all His followers handcuffed. But 'Adbu'l-Hamid Khan and his hosts found no one in the house save the Bab, His maternal uncle, and Siyyid Kazim of Zanjan; and as it chanced that on that night the sickness of the plague and the extreme heat of the weather had compelled Husayn Khan to flee, he released the Bab on condition of His quitting the city. On the morning after that night the Bab with Siyyid Kazim of Zanjan set out from Shiraz for Isfahan. Before reaching Isfahan He wrote a letter to the Mu'tamidu'd-Dawlih, the governor of the province, requesting a lodging in some suitable place with the sanction of the government. The governor appointed the mansion of the Imam-Jum'ih. There He abode forty days  AB00003

Grieve not that you have not been chosen to accompany Me on My pilgrimage to Hijaz... God willing, I shall return hither by the way of Kufih, in which place I hope to meet you. If it be decreed otherwise, I shall ask you to join Me in Shiraz.  BBU0005

When at a very young age, I was assigned to write the merchants' name on their commodities, or recite the list of names, I would bow My head and praise God, so that even during this small undertaking, I would remember Him. My purpose was God, and under all circumstances, He was before My eyes.  ABU0858

My God, Thou knowest that from the first day when Thou didst create me from the water of Thy love until twenty-five years had passed from my life, I was in the land where Thou didst witness my creation therein. Then Thou didst cause me to ascend to an island in the sea where I traded in the bounties of Thy kingdom...  BB00011

By My life! I was compelled in a land in my homeland to such a degree that I departed in fear and trepidation, until I was received by one born among Christians who honored me, exalted me, and established me in a station than which none greater could be found within his power in the religion of God, until he passed away.  BB00074

Say: I am a servant of the Remnant of God; I have believed in God, His signs, and what was revealed in the Qur'an from God. Verily he is a servant born on the first day of Muharram in the year 1235, and now it is the fifteenth day of the month preceding Rajab in the year 1261 as recorded in God's Book. And what hath been revealed through him from the Day of Permission until this day are those verses witnessed in God's Book. The first day the Spirit descended upon his heart was the fifteenth of the first month of 'Ayn   BB00128

When Thou didst complete Thy favor unto me by causing me to reach the age of responsibility, Thou didst raise me to an island among the islands of the sea and didst occupy me with commerce, making me bear its hardships which Thou knowest better than I. When matters became difficult for me and the darkness of night's gloom grew severe, and when there arose within me, through Thy attractive power, a light for manifestation, Thou didst graciously deliver me therefrom and didst raise me from the path of the sea to Thy holy habitation in the vicinity of the trustees of Thy Revelation.   BB00673

The Bab was a young merchant of the Pure Lineage. He was born in the year one thousand two hundred and thirty-five [A.H.] on the first day of Muharram, and when after a few years His father Siyyid Muhammad-Rida died, He was brought up in Shiraz in the arms of His maternal uncle Mirza Siyyid 'Ali the merchant. On attaining maturity He engaged in trade in Bushihr, first in partnership with His maternal uncle and afterwards independently. On account of what was observed in Him He was noted for godliness, devoutness, virtue, and piety, and was regarded in the sight of men as so characterized.  AB00003

As for the Bab -- may my soul be His sacrifice! -- it was at a young age, that is, in the twenty-fifth year of His blessed life, that He arose to proclaim His Cause. Among the Shi'ihs it is universally acknowledged that He never studied in any school, nor acquired learning from any teacher. To this the people of Shiraz, each and all, bear witness. Nevertheless, He suddenly appeared before the people, endowed with consummate knowledge, and though but a merchant, confounded all the divines of Persia. Alone, He undertook a task that can scarcely be conceived, for the Persians are known throughout the world for their religious fanaticism. This illustrious Being arose with such power as to shake the foundations of the religious laws, customs, manners, morals, and habits of Persia, and instituted a new law, faith, and religion. Though the eminent men of the State, the majority of the people, and the leaders of religion arose one and all to destroy and annihilate Him, He single-handedly withstood them and set all of Persia in motion. How numerous the divines, the leaders, and the inhabitants of that land who with perfect joy and gladness offered up their lives in His path and hastened to the field of martyrdom! The government, the nation, the clergy, and prominent leaders sought to extinguish His light, but to no avail. At last His moon rose, His star shone forth, His foundation was secured, and His horizon was flooded with light. He trained a large multitude through divine education and exerted a marvellous influence upon the thoughts, customs, morals, and manners of the Persians. He proclaimed the glad-tidings of the manifestation of the Sun of Baha to all His followers and readied them for faith and certitude. The manifestation of such marvellous signs and mighty undertakings, the influence exerted upon the thoughts and minds of the people, the laying of the foundations of progress, and the establishment of the prerequisites of success and prosperity by a young merchant constitute the greatest proof that He was a universal Educator--a fact that no fair-minded person would ever hesitate to acknowledge.  AB01889

Through the revelation of Thy grace, O Lord, Thou didst call Me into being on a night such as this, and lo, I am now lonely and forsaken in a mountain... Thou didst create Me, O Lord, through Thy gracious favour and didst protect Me through Thy bounty in the darkness of the womb and didst nourish Me, through Thy loving-kindness, with life-giving blood. After having fashioned Me in a most comely form, through Thy tender providence, and having perfected My creation through Thine excellent handiwork and breathed Thy Spirit into My body through Thine infinite mercy and by the revelation of Thy transcendent unity, Thou didst cause Me to issue forth from the world of concealment into the visible world, naked, ignorant of all things, and powerless to achieve aught. Thou didst then nourish Me with refreshing milk and didst rear Me in the arms of My parents with manifest compassion, until Thou didst graciously acquaint Me with the realities of Thy Revelation and apprised Me of the straight path of Thy Faith as set forth in Thy Book.  BB00485

When He reached Kinar-Gird a fresh order came from the Prime Minister appointing the village of Kulayn as an abode and dwelling-place. There He remained for a period of twenty days. After that, the Bab forwarded a letter to the Royal Presence craving audience to set forth the truth of His condition, expecting this to be a means for the attainment of great advantages. The Prime Minister did not admit this, and made representation to the Royal Presence: The royal cavalcade is on the point of starting, and to engage in such matters as the present will conduce to the disruption of the kingdom. Neither is there any doubt that the most notable doctors of the capital also will behave after the fashion of the doctors of Isfahan, which thing will be the cause of a popular outbreak, or that, according to the religion of the immaculate Imam, they will regard the blood of this siyyid as of no account, yea, as more lawful than mother's milk....  So Mirza 'Ali-Asghar the Shaykhu'l-Islam, who was one of the noble Siyyids, brought Him to his own house and applied the rods with his own hand. After this they sent the Bab back to Chihriq and subjected Him to a strict confinement.    AB00003

Now when the accomplished divines of Adhirbayjan perceived that in all the parts round about Tabriz it was as though the last day had come by reason of the excessive clamor, they requested the government to punish the [Bab's] followers, and to remove the Bab to the Castle of Chihriq. So they sent Him to that castle and consigned Him to the keeping of Yahya Khan the Kurd.  AB00003
