The world, i.e. the universe, is eternal. The earth is but one planet where natural life is millions and millions of years old. Life on earth did not exist from the beginning and all at once, but it developed in stages and by degrees. The atoms of the elements are predisposed (programmed) to synthesis and composition according to the laws of nature; the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will operates and creates in this manner. The Primal Will operates in the element, in the primal atom, as attraction and repulsion; on the next higher level as organic life; then as animal-vegetative; and finally as spiritual life, which is destined to rise to the super-spiritual. What develops is not the physical substratum (base), which actually exists from the beginning in its different kinds, each of which then develops only within its own kind to higher perfection, but rather does the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will, unfold within the creature just as the bud of a flower unfolds ever more completely, purely and beautifully, and will finally, in the fully-redeemed, totally purified man, return to the Godhead, to be immersed and fused in the Godhead.  ABU0170

Working up through the mineral and vegetable kingdoms, sense-perception is reached in the animal, and the perfection of form is attained in man.   ABU0343

Material scientists endeavor to show the evolution of the species man from the monkey. The Prophets of God have been occupied in explaining that man has descended from the Divine Spirit. The professors and learned scientists of materialism glory in the evidences that the ape is the progenitor of humanity and make exhaustive efforts to discover proof of it. If we should ask the ape, he would say "Unquestionably we are all one,--of this I am certain without the aid of scientific inquiry, ethnological proof, biological deductions or geological findings; I believe what I see"--for the ape is a real, a true materialist.  ABU2804

just as the vegetable transcendeth the mineral, the animal surpasseth the vegetable, and man excelleth the animal in the perfections of existence  AB07315

"In the pyramids are to be found the bodies of men who lived four or five thousand years ago. They show forth the same characteristics as men of today. There are also records of their births and deaths, indicating that they lived sixty or seventy years, as men do today."  ABU3045

Beginning with the mineral, the vegetable and the animal, the human follows, being at the end of the descending arc, and therefore the very lowest point of life.  ABU2609

Now the world is like a seed - soon from this seed a mighty tree will grow, and from this atom will appear branches, a great tree, verdant leaves, blossoms and fruit.  AB05275

They were led to speak of their idea of evolution of man from the atom and molecule all through the different stations until at last man was evolved from all these previous conditions.  ABU3186

There are seven general stages. The first is the stage of the inorganic being. From the mineral kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the plant…, and from the plant kingdom, it ascendeth to the stage of the animal….When it reacheth the stage of soul, spirit, and mind, then in accordance with that stage, it hath a death which will certainly destroy all privative aspects. Finally, the command will reach the stage of the inmost heart, which is the gulf of immortality and pure life, in the presence of the Lord of creation.  BB00613

Man is the greatest part of the world of existence and the fruit of the tree of the visible world. His species is eternal, and this everlasting reality has neither beginning nor end. What Western philosophers say about human evolution - that man has come from the mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms and reached this station through growth and development - is mere fancy, for the human species is ancient. Perhaps on this earth it was initially like a seed, then progressed and reached the station of "the best of creators." But that seed which gradually developed was the human species, not animal. Therefore this species is ancient and was originally the noblest of earthly creatures. This is the truth, and after truth there is naught but manifest error. Truth has ever existed while creation is continually renewed, like the sun and its rays.  AB05224

But as to evolution: it is true of both body and the spirit. Consider how many sciences, arts, discoveries and achievements have come into existence since the days of Moses till the present time through the progress of the human soul in knowledge and perfections. Similarly, how much the soul has evolved from the moral point of view. When the body of man is perfected, physical evolution comes to an end, since nature does not seek to build a higher form than that of man. But the evolution of spirit continues until reason, the mental powers, and the emotional capacities are evolved in it. These are not produced by entities which pass from body to body, but by the universal or World Spirit of man. The results of each individual life-experience go to the general enrichment of humanity. As a hundred lamps may be lit from a single flame, so the one World Spirit illumines the minds of countless men. Without this spirit, man's body, like the lamp, is lifeless matter.  AB10286

These animals which you are eating evolve from a low stage to a higher stage of existence. Therefore it is permissible to eat animals. Because the purpose is for the advancement of human welfare vivisection is permissible, but provided cruelty is not practiced.   ABU0471

The creative power of the eternal, i.e. the timeless, which is inherent in nature, creates continuously and dynamically, so that progressively and potentially all earthly creatures have developed from one primal cell. Here we already find the germ of Darwin's theory of development and descent.   ABU0148


A wise man when looking at an egg, sees in it the whole form of a bird; he sees the beak, the claws, the plumage, the wings and the eyes, as well as the song and melody of the bird; but a child or an unwise man sees nothing but the egg, even unable to go any further than the outward shell and appearance.  ABU2702

This question comes down to the originality or non-originality of the species, that is, whether the essence of the human species was fixed from the very origin or whether it subsequently came from the animals. Certain European philosophers hold that species evolve and can even change and transform into other species.  AB00167

For example, the progression of mineral reality from the mineral kingdom to the plant kingdom is purely through bestowal. Similarly, the transfer of plant reality to the animal kingdom is also purely through bestowal. Likewise, the transfer of animal reality to the human kingdom is also purely through grace and bestowal.   AB00430

For instance this chicken that you are eating was once in the Mineral Kingdom, through successive stages it reached the vegetable Kingdom, then the animal Kingdom and now it is going into the make up of your constitution - which is the human Kingdom. Therefore movement, evolution and progress are witnessed in all the atoms of existence.  ABU2506

Know, verily, that the seed, however virile it may be, however strong the hand of the sower, however pure the water that watereth it, it is impossible for it to grow, blossom and bear fruit in a short time; nay, a long period is needed for its development. So it is the Kingdom of God. Consider the seed which was sown by Christ; verily, it did not blossom until after a long period.  AB05896

For example, the human species and human nature have been and will forever remain preserved and protected. As can be observed, the mummified ancient human bodies that have been extracted from the pyramids of Egypt, though five thousand years have passed since their death, have not changed or altered even by a hair's breadth from the human form. Likewise the images of animals that exist in Akhmim, Egypt are exactly like existing animals  AB02206

From the beginning of existence in the womb of the terestrial globe, man gradually grew and developed like the embryo in the womb of its mother, and passed from one shape and form to another, until he appeared with this beauty and perfection, this power and constitution. It is certain that initially he did not possess such loveliness, grace, and refinement, and that he has only gradually attained such form, disposition, comeliness and grace.   AB00077

Moses teaches that the world was created in six days of creation! This is a symbol, a symbolic expression of the ancient truth that the world has evolved slowly. Darwin can refer in his doctrine of evolution to Moses. God did not create the world suddenly but God's breath of life becomes God's creative word of command, logos, which continuously creates the world. We have a continuing and not a single act of creation. Moses's days of creation are periods of millions of years.  ABU0017

We come from the earth; why were we transferred from the mineral to the vegetable kingdom -- from the plant to the animal kingdom? So that we may attain perfection in each of these kingdoms, that we may possess the best qualities of the mineral, that we may acquire the power of growing as in the plant, that we may be adorned with the instincts of the animal and possess the faculties of sight, hearing, smell, touch and taste, until from the animal kingdom we step into the world of humanity  ABU1800


As man's physical form has been developed through various stages and degrees - that is, by evolution from the mineral to the vegetable, from that to the animal, and from that to the human kingdom; as the bodily estate of man has been reached by passing through these several stages, until at length a stage has been attained higher than the others, in which it is endowed with all the physical excellences, so his spiritual nature advances through successive stages of development until it reaches the Highest Kingdom and the most Glorious Horizon.  ABU0964

Among these animals is the snake, which has vestigial organs indicating that it once had legs, but over time this organ disappeared while traces of it remained. Likewise, in the human spine there is a trace that indicates that humans, like other animals, once had a tail. They maintain that its traces remain--that this organ was once useful, but when humans evolved it no longer served a purpose and thus gradually disappeared. The snake, too, found its dwelling underground and became a crawling creature, no longer needing legs, so they disappeared though their traces remained.  AB00440

Between man and the ape, however, there is one link missing, and to the present time scientists have not been able to discover it. Therefore, the greatest proof of this western theory of human evolution is anatomical, reasoning that there are certain vestiges of organs found in man which are peculiar to the ape and lower animals...For example, a serpent has a certain appendage which indicates that at one time it was possessed of long limbs, but as this creature began to find its habitation in the holes of the earth, these limbs, no longer needed, became atrophied and shrunk.  ABU0029

As to the question of man's progress from the mineral kingdom to the vegetable, from the vegetable to the animal, and to the station of man--these represent man's physical progress, and when he attains the utmost physical perfection in that station, the heavenly station becomes manifest. The meaning is that every being advances within its own station, but its transition from one station to a higher one depends upon divine bestowal. For instance, the plant progresses in its vegetable station, but its transition from the vegetable to the animal kingdom depends upon the mercy of the All-Merciful.  AB04427

In the physical creation, evolution is from one degree of perfection to another. The mineral passes with its mineral perfections to the vegetable; the vegetable, with its perfections, passes to the animal world, and so on to that of humanity. This world is full of seeming contradictions; in each of these kingdoms (mineral, vegetable and animal) life exists in its degree; though when compared to the life in a man, the earth appears to be dead, yet she, too, lives and has a life of her own. In this world things live and die, and live again in other forms of life, but in the world of the spirit it is quite otherwise.  ABU0626

The genesis of man upon this earthly sphere may be likened unto the formation of the human embryo in the maternal womb. The embryo gradually groweth and developeth until its birth, whereafter it continueth to grow and develop until it reacheth the state of maturity. Similarly doth the growth and development of all beings proceed by gradual degrees. This is the universal divine law and the natural order. The seed doth not suddenly become the tree; the embryo doth not at once become the man; the mineral substance doth not in a moment become the stone: Nay, all these grow and develop gradually until they attain the limit of perfection.  AB00722

"That which hath been in existence had existed before, but not in the form thou seest today." From this blessed verse it is clear and evident that the universe is evolving. In the opinion of the philosophers and the wise this fact of the growth and evolution of the world of existence is also established. That is to say, it is progressively transferred from one state to another. But some of the philosophers of Europe think that one species evolves into another species. For example, that the animal evolved until it became a human being. But the prophets teach that this theory is unacceptable, as we have explained already in the book Some Answered Questions. Nay, rather evolution and growth take place within the same species.  AB00373

When an imaginative young man, endowed with the vibrating energies of youth, looks over the phenomena of creation, he sees life, growth and composition. But when he reaches to the age of manhood and is introduced in the school of divine philosophy, then as he looks over the things of the world he sees death, decay and decomposition. He will observe the processes and functions of decomposition going on at all times and hours. As he looks at the young, verdant trees, he sees them withered, the fresh flowers fading, the tall buildings in the course of decomposition and the sea dried up. He sees that all the created phenomena speak to him in the language of change and mutability, nothing eternal, everything mortal; nothing stable, everything being transformed.  ABU1026

Man is indestructible. The man you see before your eyes has travelled through all the worlds of existence. Those molecular atoms which go into the make-up of the human body were originally in the mineral world, and these atoms have had journeyings and coursings through all the various phases of the mineral kingdom, appearing under various forms and images. Stepping up into the vegetable kingdom these atoms have been transferred from mineral to vegetable. In the vegetable kingdom they have manifested under various shades, and in a myriad of forms. Rising into a higher scale of life, we see them again in the animal kingdom, expressing themselves through multitudes of forms and images. And now we see these indestructible atoms dawning upon the horizon of man.  ABU1774

First station, that of the body, the solid or mineral condition which is referred to as Eden. The term "Eden" in the Arabic language means place of living or residing. Second station, that of the growing condition of man, which is the development from the mineral to the vegetable, referred to as the Garden of Eden. The garden, as you know, is the plane for plants to grow. Third station, that of the power of sensation, which condition is arrived at after leaving or developing from the vegetable to the animal, in which condition man begins to eat, drink, feel, etc., which sensations are referred to as the different kinds of fruits. Fourth station, that of mentality; in this condition or stage of development man is enabled to use his reasoning faculties, which is referred to as the station or tree of good and evil. Fifth station, that of the Kingdom of Faith in God, which condition depends upon one's attitude toward the Word of God.  ABU0217

The materialists insist on their position. The theologians ask in response: "Is this earth eternal or was it created?" The materialists reply that according to science and complete discoveries, it is proven that it was created - initially a fiery globe that gradually cooled and formed a crust. Then above the crust, plants came into being, then animals appeared, then humans came to exist. AB00920

As to evolution, it is true of both the body and the spirit.  AB01223

For instance, how intelligent and knowing the Arabian horse has become through training, even how polite this horse has become through education. As to the human world: It is more in need of guidance and education than the lower creatures.  ABU0900

However, since the development of the physical frame through the bounty of the spirit occurs gradually - proceeding through the stages of creation from a drop of sperm, to a blood clot, to a lump of flesh, to the clothing of flesh, to the bringing forth of another creation, "and blessed be God, the best of creators"   AB02581

In the beginning of his human life man was embryonic in the world of the matrix. There he received capacity and endowment for the reality of human existence. The forces and powers necessary for this world were bestowed upon him in that limited condition. In this world he needed eyes; he received them potentially in the other. He needed ears; he obtained them there in readiness and preparation for his new existence.  ABU0112


Man must walk in many paths and be subjected to various processes in his evolution upward. Physically he is not born in full stature but passes through consecutive stages of fetus, infant, childhood, youth, maturity and old age.  ABU0019

As the completeness of man stems entirely from the component elements, their measure, their manner of combination, and the mutual action and interaction of other beings--and since man was produced ten or a hundred thousand years ago from the same earthly elements, with the same measures and quantities, the same manner of composition and combination, and the same interactions with other beings--it follows that man was exactly the same then as exists now.  AB00278

But from the beginning of his existence man has been a distinct species. This is similar to the embryo of man in the womb of the mother: it possesses at first a strange appearance; then this body passes from shape to shape and from form to form until it appears in the utmost beauty and perfection. But even when it possesses in the womb of the mother a strange form entirely different from its present shape and appearance, it is the embryo of a distinct species and not of an animal: the essence of the species and the innate reality undergo no transformation at all.   AB00077

Man is the greatest part of the world of existence and the fruit of the tree of the visible world. His species is eternal, and this everlasting reality has neither beginning nor end. What Western philosophers say about human evolution - that man has come from the mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms and reached this station through growth and development - is mere fancy, for the human species is ancient. Perhaps on this earth it was initially like a seed, then progressed and reached the station of "the best of creators." But that seed which gradually developed was the human species, not animal. Therefore this species is ancient and was originally the noblest of earthly creatures. This is the truth, and after truth there is naught but manifest error. Truth has ever existed while creation is continually renewed, like the sun and its rays.  AB05224

Perhaps on this earth it was initially like a seed, then progressed and reached the station of "the best of creators." But that seed which gradually developed was the human species, not animal. Therefore this species is ancient  AB05224

In each degree of his progression he has developed capacity for advancement to the next station and condition. While in the kingdom of the mineral he was attaining the capacity for promotion into the degree of the vegetable. In the kingdom of the vegetable he underwent preparation for the world of the animal, and from thence he has come onward to the human degree, or kingdom. Throughout this journey of progression he has ever and always been potentially man.  ABU0112
