
Shun slothfulness. Be diligent in your work.  ABU1467

joy be unto the craftsman who perfecteth his craft  BH10106

Devotion to and love for one's vocation accomplishes miracles.  ABU3634

you must conduct yourself in such a way as to bring honor to the Cause of God.  AB12010

Strive always to be at the head of your class through hard study and true merit  ABU2398

Take pride in your knowledge and refinement, not in your ancestors and garments.  BH11393

You must, however, struggle unceasingly to perfect yourself and win ever higher achievements.  AB07272

you must demonstrate the utmost zeal, effort and skill in commerce so that all may praise you  AB12494

in reward for this supreme virtue he attained a renowned name and left an eternal remembrance  AB10476

You should be constantly engaged in thanksgiving to God and strive day by day to advance this craft.  AB06578

Thou must endeavour greatly so that thou mayest become unique in thy profession and famous in those parts  AB09842

Such company establishments are very beneficial, but conditional on proficiency, steadfastness and firmness.  AB00808

May they ever become better, sweeter, more perfect and more accomplished! In this path lies life's enjoyment.   ABU1040

Now you can demonstrate whatever sincerity, purity, and loftiness of purpose lies within your capacity and ability  AB12365

When matters are thus well arranged, every child will become a peerless plant in the gardens of the Abha Paradise.   AB03742

Pursue the arts in which they have trained thee to the utmost of thine ability so that thou mayest attain excellence.   AB04288

All should strive and endeavor to perfect it, that every thing may attain to its paradise which is its state of perfection.  BH09285

Until this method is adopted, perfection cannot be attained, independence cannot be achieved. This is how work progresses.   ABU1306

But you must complete the blessed undertaking of the established edifice with utmost diligence, in perfect grace and elegance.   AB04670

Man's honor lieth in wisdom, understanding and praiseworthy character, not in the accumulation of riches and pride and vainglory.  BH01525

They have a great deal of pluck and determination, patience and will. Generally they make a success in everything they undertake.  ABU2902

Strive for that which prompts the personification of dignity and virtues. The theatrical world need not prevent your development.   ABU2483

In affairs one must achieve complete perfection, otherwise no result is yielded and no fruit obtained; rather it remains incomplete.  AB12115

you must all exert such intense effort and decisive endeavor in your studies that you may distinguish yourselves among all the students.  AB09070

In your craft, be as diligent as you can, so that it may reach the utmost perfection and excellence, for perfection in all degrees is beloved.  AB09242

that the proportioned figure of the world may become honored and adorned, and the body of nations may find its ultimate radiance and ornament   AB07290

Since God, exalted be His glory, hath loved every craft at its most perfect, therefore that which flowed from the Most Exalted Pen was revealed.  BH01117

Having multiple crafts causes dispersion of focus. Concentrate fully on one of these crafts and strive and endeavor until you achieve proficiency.   AB05069

Today there are many strong ones, mighty ones and wealthy ones on earth who are deprived due to heedlessness, while you are mentioned in the presence  BH08739

When I was young they would light ten candles and at the range of a very long distance I would put out the lights one after another without missing one.  ABU3517

For guidance is the medicine of the spirit and the cause of spiritual victories - it is healing for the soul and a remedy of joy and delight for the heart   AB06886

Through the Bounty and Providence of the True One it must become evident to all that it is the first school of Persia and its graduates are the most successful.  AB11302

The teachers and professors will be spiritual and their idealism sublime and transcendent. Their sympathetic and artistic natures will be acute and most refined.  ABU0568

His work, both material and spiritual, must reveal what he himself is. By his arts, sciences, inventions and all of his work, man must reveal his highest capacity.  ABU1794

You all must exert such intense effort and endeavor in your studies at the college and schools of Beirut that you may distinguish yourselves above all other students.  AB09070

This matter is a great service to the Holy Threshold, and its fame shall, throughout eternity, gladden the hearts of the Concourse on High in the Kingdom of Sanctity.   AB11982

It is the longing desire of Abdu'l-Baha to see each one of you accounted as the foremost professor in the academies, and in the school of inner significances, each one becoming a leader in wisdom.   AB06380

In every matter, one must conduct oneself with complete truthfulness, purity, trustworthiness and fairness, which are the means of attaining perfection and attract progress and divine confirmation.   ABU0822

Therefore, extreme effort should be made in art...when studying of art is with the intention of obeying the command this study will certainly be done easily and great progress will soon be made therein   AB03769

"In every matter one must arise with utmost effort to fulfill its conditions and reach the height of perfection. If studying, have no desire but learning. If in commerce, act according to its principles."   ABU0535

Baha'u'llah has said that whoever has an art or handicraft, it is incumbent upon him to endeavor to develop it to the point of perfection - even though that art be as humble as that of weaving coarse straw matting.  ABU2900

The children who are at the head of their class must receive premiums. They must be encouraged, and when one of them shows good advancement, for their further development they must be praised and encouraged therein.   ABU2054

that your efforts to make progress and bring prosperity will be granted divine confirmations and crowned with heavenly success; and that you will achieve outstanding proficiency in agriculture, industry, and commerce  ABU3712

I hope thou wilt acquire great proficiency in writing literature, composition, eloquence of tongue and fluency of speech... progressing day by day until thou attain to the apex of the excellencies of this human world.  AB08884

When this is achieved, you will become zealous and courageous in acquiring sciences and arts, and will speak English with perfect eloquence and fluency, even delivering eloquent and fluent speeches in public gatherings.  AB02950

Work and its reward will come to you. Work and wait for the results. Work and its traces will immortalize your name. Work and when final success comes the world will applaud and cheer your pluck and patient perseverance.  ABU0510

But those weak souls who outwardly had neither fame nor sign, because they entered beneath the shadow of the Divine Word, their signs and lights became manifest throughout all the divine realms, even present in the very dust of the earth.  AB05311

Therefore I offer congratulations on the learning and culture displayed in this matchless and unparalleled ghazal. And I pray God may grant you such an eloquent and articulate tongue that the masters of Arabic and Persian eloquence are left astonished.  AB06954

Exalt your thoughts. Reflect over all your affairs. Magnify your endeavors. Enlarge the circle of your ideals. Open the wings of spiritual wisdom. Let your hope be the accomplishment of most great deeds the results of which may immortalize your names.   ABU1347

The craftspeople should at every moment express a hundred thousand thanksgivings at the Sacred Threshold and apply the utmost effort and care in their crafts so that the most wondrous workmanship may appear before the world in the utmost delicacy and elegance.   AB06647

The happiness and pride of a nation consist in this, that it should shine out like the sun in the high heaven of knowledge. And the honor and distinction of the individual consist in this, that he among all the world's multitudes should become a source of social good.  AB00004

it is hoped that you will conduct yourselves in such a way that you become renowned throughout all regions for your virtue, steadfastness, endeavor, administrative ability and goodwill, and that all peoples may testify that the Baha'is are the bright candles of the world  AB07009

In a short while he became famous throughout all Bagdad and leaving his hard labor of thorn-picking he devoted his career to the inspiring art of music. With his growing popularity he grew in wealth and position and became a respected, loved and honored member of the community.   ABU1217

Therefore, the leaves of the Divine Tree must arise with such qualities, effects, conduct, attraction, enkindlement, utterance, exposition, spirit, bounties, text and commentary that their power, influence, effects and lights will surpass those of the leaves of former dispensations.  AB01788

But this distinction must not depend upon wealth - that they should become more affluent than other people. I do not desire for you financial distinction. It is not an ordinary distinction that I desire; not scientific, commercial, industrial distinction. For you I desire spiritual distinction.   ABU2112

You must ever concentrate your thoughts on the acquisition of knowledge, that unending confirmations may successively reach you from the Kingdom of God, and that through His grace you may exert mighty efforts and strenuous endeavors for the progress of Iran and the advancement of the Iranian people  AB08788

O my loved one! Thoroughness in every undertaking is among the fruits of faith and certitude. Therefore strive to become truly proficient in medicine and surgery to the extent possible, and this is what is hoped for if the aforementioned praiseworthy Prince agrees to it in keeping with the kindness he has shown you.  AB10691

In thy craft, strive to achieve the utmost precision, that it may attain the highest refinement and perfection, for excellence in all degrees is beloved. Assuredly, if one perfects his craft, he shall be rewarded at the Court of the Divine Unity, and that product shall find acceptance in the market of the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB09242

they must govern and conduct affairs in the manner of the people of truth, so that through justice, fairness, mercy, absence of oppression, good governance, wisdom, strength of judgment and steadfastness, they may become distinguished among their peers and equals, and raise such a reputation that all provinces will desire their governance.  AB09913

The command of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for the dust of His threshold, is that whosoever undertakes any craft should carry it out with utmost perfection, and when one doeth so, that craft is worship. Therefore strive as much as thou canst for thy calligraphy to progress until thou attainest such a degree as to become the foremost engraver in these parts.  AB11144

"He who serves (the government). No one can say that I must be respected because my father has been a general. A person who does not serve the nation will not have any distinction, although he may be respected. He will be respected because of the services of his father. So far as offices are concerned, he will be given no preference; but he who serves must have the mark of distinction."  ABU1815

I desire distinction for you. The Baha'is must be distinguished from others of humanity. But this distinction must not depend upon wealth -- that they should become more affluent than other people. I do not desire for you financial distinction. It is not an ordinary distinction I desire; not scientific, commercial, industrial distinction. For you I desire spiritual distinction -- that is, you must become eminent and distinguished in morals.   ABU0387

Therefore, O thou manifestation of perfection, perfect all thy craft and craftsmanship, and learn from that concerning the letters of the Gospel, such that thou mayest write from the Most Exalted Point what is possible therein of craftsmanship. I have given thee the part as an example that thou mayest know the whole from the part. Verily God hath cursed one who is capable of manifesting a craft in perfection yet manifests it imperfectly, and who loves for himself what he would purchase from another.  BB00003

I hope that while you are studying in this college you may so excel all other students in the various branches of Knowledge taught therein;- that all of them may testify that these Baha'i students have another power, they are inspired with another effort, they are imbued with a nobler ambition and they are stimulated by higher motives and wider and deeper exertion. Were you to be equal with them, then what distinction will there remain for you; therefore you must strive to be superior to them so that every one may bear testimony to this fact.  ABU1505

Make ye then a mighty effort, that the purity and sanctity which, above all else, are cherished by Abdu'l-Baha, shall distinguish the people of Baha; that in every kind of excellence the people of God shall surpass all other human beings; that both outwardly and inwardly they shall prove superior to the rest; that for purity, immaculacy, refinement, and the preservation of health, they shall be leaders in the vanguard of those who know. And that by their freedom from enslavement, their knowledge, their self-control, they shall be first among the pure, the free and the wise.  AB00109
