
You must act in accordance with these teachings.   ABU3267

Now you must strive to follow God's commandments.   BH10007

counseled humanity, and advised all created things   AB05952

Hold fast unto that which will exalt the Cause of God   BH11346

and counsel them to that which befits the days of God.  BH08511

I counsel you to pure deeds and praiseworthy conduct.   BH08019

We counsel all to patience, steadfastness and tranquility.   BH10532

Be thou steadfast in the Cause and arise to serve thy Lord.   BH05611

This is the counsel of the Most Exalted Pen unto His loved ones  BH10036

thou wilt act according to the divine counsels and exhortations  AB10613

Sow the seeds of love in the heart and not the seeds of hatred.  ABU3384

You must do a little better. The better you do, the better it is.  AB11265

The fountain of the water of life is the very essence of guidance   AB05123

Thus doth the Wronged One counsel you from this well-known station.   BH08289

Hearken ye, and act according to the loving counsels of the Beloved.   BH09785

strive in outward matters according to thy capacity. This is thy duty  BH08426

This is the counsel of the Wronged One to all the handmaidens of God.  BH07607

We counsel all to perform good deeds and display praiseworthy conduct.  BH03818

"the counsels of the Blessed Beauty will be explained and elucidated"   AB07015

Be thou eloquent in wisdom and hold fast unto it under all conditions.   BH10715

Verily, this is best for thee both in this world and the world to come.  AB04919

We must strive night and day to bring this blessed intention to fruition   AB05383

We counsel thee to preserve this most exalted station and this supreme rank  BH11097

Hold fast unto wisdom and place thy trust in God, the Mighty, the All-Wise.  BH10678

Fear God, O people of insight. Say: He commands you that which benefits you.  BH09100

Therefore, adopt thou the way of these pure ones and become one of the free.  AB10926

Therefore strive ye to adorn yourselves with the Image of the Lord of Mercy.  AB11116

Know thou its value and preserve it through the name of the Peerless Friend.   BH11347

counsel the servants to trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness and purity  BH10693

You must perform this deputized pilgrimage with utmost care once every year.   AB00140

We counsel them to be steadfast and to preserve what We have ordained for them.   BH10044

that sapling by the stream of love must, like its father, become a fruitful tree   AB11912

Try to follow the teachings of Baha'o'llah, then each one will shine like a star.   ABU2676

The Wronged One counseleth you with that which will exalt your stations among men.   BH09249

O friends! Strive ye to adorn yourselves with the ornament of divine virtues.   BH08004

O leaf! The Tree commands: do not fall short in knowledge, calligraphy and character.  BH11037

This is the counsel of the Wronged One unto His loved ones. Blessed are they that act.  BH10935

I beseech God to assist her in serving the Cause of God and guiding other maidservants  AB11243

Give thanks unto God in the nights and days, and glorify Him with praise at all times.   BH05890

Therefore, O pure descendant of his, walk in his footsteps and be nurtured in his way.   AB05711

I counsel Jinab Aqa Bik with divine counsels and merciful kindness and glorious favors   AB05863

This is the counsel of the Lord of Names which He hath revealed from the Most Exalted Pen   BH07038

I ask of God that his relatives may also be confirmed in following his character and way.   AB06880

We counsel thee at the end of Our utterance with wisdom - hold fast unto it in all matters.  BH03902

Follow thou in his footsteps, that thou mayest attain endless bounty and seek eternal life.  AB08959

Return thou to the abode of security and the seat of fellowship, near unto the mighty King.   BH11197

In the acquisition of perfection, negligence is not permissible. Exert thy utmost endeavor.   BH09300

We counsel thee and My loved ones to trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness and purity.   BH03971

As they were capable souls they forged ahead and advanced without much exertion on my part.   ABU2754

I have trained Zeenat Khanum, and having confidence in her, therefore, I sent her to America   ABU3425

Follow what you have been commanded in the Book. Thus does your All-Knowing Lord counsel you.   BH09595

This is the greatest counsel wherewith We have counseled you, and I am the Best of Counselors   BH05155

Strive that you may, in this Dawn of Hope, attain the outpourings of the Ocean of Divine Unity.  BH11192

O people! Take hold of the Book of God with His power and follow not every doubting pretender.   BH08914

We command them to observe justice and benevolence and the fear of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH03301

Become the beloved of Egypt in the love of God, and manifest thyself in mountain and marketplace  AB10994

Hear ye the voice of the Wronged One, know ye your stations, and preserve them through His Name.   BH10549

Be as beseemeth My Cause and My days. Thus doth command thee He Who is the All-Knowing Commander.  BH10415

We counsel thee and those who have believed in that whereby this wondrous Cause shall be exalted   BH06336

Cast aside what the people possess and take what you are commanded by God, the Lord of existence.  BH06042

The Most Exalted Pen counseleth all to act in accordance with what is recorded in the Book of God   BH06138

At most it is that one is ignorant and should be taught, is sick and should be treated, and so on.  ABU2361

O Joseph! The Wronged One counsels thee to hold fast to the white religion and the resplendent Law.  BH11841

Act according to what We have enjoined upon thee in the Book, then safeguard the Cause of thy Lord.   BH10852

"Preserve this station through His Name. This is My counsel unto thee and unto God's near servants."  BH07385

In the nights and days the Most Exalted Pen is occupied with wise counsels and loving exhortations.   BH03166

We counsel thee to fear God and to remember Him - a remembrance which hath preceded all remembrance.   BH10675

Hold fast unto wisdom in all conditions. We have enjoined this upon you both aforetime and hereafter   BH04300

The Most Exalted Pen in the hours of nights and days counsels with loving advice all who are on earth   BH08379

"He, verily, enjoineth upon all men what is right, and forbiddeth whatsoever degradeth their station."  BH06706

Cast away what is with the people and take what thou hast been given from God, the Lord of existence.   BH05994

O people! Deprive not yourselves of this most great bounty, nor follow every ignorant remote one.   BH09459

Now consider to whom you are related, appreciate its worth, and act in a manner befitting this lineage.  AB09044

Strive thou to attain unto that which shall endure as long as the Kingdom of earth and heaven endureth.   BH08755

Reflect upon this exalted and wondrous Word which is among the pearls of the divine sea of inner meanings  BH11185

God willing, you will fix your gaze upon the divine commandments and hold fast to that which is in the Book.  BH08718

Put away what the people possess of wickedness and evil, holding fast unto righteousness and the fear of God.   BH10457

Take hold of the Book of God with the strength that cometh from Him, then thank Him for this manifest bounty.   BH09626

We counsel thee and the friends of God to perform such deeds as will illumine the eyes and gladden the hearts.   BH09654

We have counselled all in what shall profit them in the hereafter and in this world. Blessed are they who act!   BH05039

So remind, for remembrance benefits the believers. Affairs must be conducted with the utmost joy and fragrance.  BH03018

You must certainly not delay or be remiss, and in this matter act according to the judgment of Aqa Mirza Yahya   AB06573

Strive that from thee may appear a deed that shall enter and be preserved in the treasury of divine acceptance.   BH02579

Tell them that if they would attain nearness to the Blessed Beauty they must love much, for love is everything.   ABU2656

Beware lest anything prevent thee from the remembrance of thy Lord. Make mention of Him with wisdom and utterance  BH11191

Beware lest the affairs of creation withhold thee from the Truth or the intimations of the heedless sadden thee.   BH04267

O servant, hear My words! By God the Truth, thou shalt not find for thyself a counselor more faithful than I.  BH00004

Strive thou to attain unto that which shall cause thy mention to endure throughout the kingdom of earth and heaven.  BH07148

O My loved ones! Strive that there may appear from you that which beseemeth the days of God, the Lord of the worlds  BH06717

counsels thee to remember God and [His praise] and that whereby His Cause, the Guardian over all lands, may be exalted  BH09466

make this servant of Thine a sign of guidance among all peoples and a word of God-consciousness among the chosen ones   AB07182

Verily My Most Exalted Pen counseleth all who are in the kingdom of creation to observe the Most Great Trustworthiness.   BH08211

O My name! Recall every day Our counsel to thee in Our Presence. Verily, thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH10536

Hold fast to the cord of God and His sovereignty, and be not of those who follow their own desires in this wondrous Day.  BH06260

He counsels thee and the friends to that which accordeth with wisdom and is adorned with the good-pleasure of the Friend.   BH11341

We counsel thee with that which beseemeth the days of thy Lord and that whereby His firm and mighty Cause may be exalted.   BH07428

We again make mention of thee and counsel thee to that which is befitting and conducive to the exaltation of God's Cause.   BH05983

With perfect eagerness and longing, be occupied with the remembrance of the Day-Star of the horizons and speak His praise.  BH02520

Day and night He engaged in divine counsels and exhortations, guiding all to that which leads to humanity's eternal glory   AB02137

Fear ye God, and reject not the truth by what ye possess. Follow Him Who hath come unto you with a mighty sovereignty   BH07810

God willing, thou shalt be watchful of the truth in the nights and days, and act according to that which exalteth the Cause   BH09697

O people of Baha! Choose for yourselves a station between slowness and haste. Thus doth command you the Goal of all seekers   BH05786

We counsel you to observe the Most Great Trustworthiness and that whereby the Cause of God is uplifted amongst His servants   BH04018

Remind the people with goodly counsel and transgress not what ye have been commanded in the Tablets. Be not of the heedless.   BH02744

Open thou thine eyes and gaze intently upon the signs of God, and take hold of them with strength, and be not of the doubters   BH03924

And thou, O thou who hast immersed thyself in the sea of guidance, seize upon them! Be of good cheer and increase in knowledge  AB09708

We convey greetings to the women of that land and bid them to sanctification, detachment, supreme chastity and supreme purity.   BH03929

I hope that you will join hands and strive to spread the divine teachings and become the cause of illumination of that region.   AB03858

Today the friends of God must act in accordance with that which hath been sent down from the heaven of His everlasting Command.   BH10996

Blessed is the soul that hath turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon and hath become detached and free from all else besides God  BH05941

May you be of those who have believed and obeyed; may you be of the few that are chosen rather than of the many that are called!  ABU1953

We counsel thee and those who have believed to fear God and to that whereby His Cause, the Mighty, the Wondrous, may be exalted.   BH10037

Pray that day by day he may increase in sincerity and detachment, and that at every moment he may be more successful than before.  AB08571

I ask of God that day by day thou mayest become more assisted, that thy efforts may increase, that they may become still greater.  AB09831

We counsel thee with wisdom and utterance and with that which will manifest the station of man among the peoples of all religions   BH03313

We make mention of you for the sake of God and impart unto you that which will draw you nigh unto Him, if ye be of them that know.  BH06248

Even now doth He exhort thee with the counsels of eternity, and assist thee in words of holiness to grasp the essence of the Cause   BH03983

Hold fast unto the cord of thy Lord's grace, and cleave unto the hem of the True One's loving-kindness, the Knower of all secrets.   BH00365

We counsel thee and those who have believed with that whereby the Cause of God, the Possessor of this wondrous Day, may be exalted.   BH10116

Counsel the loved ones to patience and fortitude lest there appear from them that which they have been forbidden in the Book of God   BH06044

I hope that you will not forget the counsels and exhortations given at the time of farewell and that you will act according to them   AB07281

"O thou who hast acquired the light of guidance! ... Look not at the creatures but rather turn thy gaze to the Creator of creation."  AB05277

O people of Baha! Take ye wisdom from Us and transgress not beyond it. Thus have We commanded you in the Scriptures and Tablets.  BH02642

It behooveth every soul to remember Him on the day of His Manifestation and thereby render thanks unto his Lord, the Mighty, the Wise.   BH09454

O my dear son! Know the value of this prayer and turn to God and yearn with your soul to attain this mighty station in the near future.  AB08440

You should stay and travel for a time in Zoshto and its surroundings so that, God willing, the blessed tree may take root in that field.  AB08332

Blessed is the soul that ariseth today with complete sincerity and becometh adorned with that which guideth mankind and speaketh thereof.  BH10613

Hold fast unto the Book, then act according to that which hath been sent down therein from the Pen of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower.  BH09610

We convey Our greetings to the friends of God and counsel them to patience, forbearance, and such deeds and character as befit these days   BH09551

O people of Baha! It behooveth you to follow that whereunto ye have been commanded. Verily it shall profit you in this world and the next.  BH08982

Be thou steadfast in thy love, then consort with the people with wisdom and speak unto them with wisdom, for this is a beautiful command.   BH07510

O people of Baha! Look not upon the creatures and their clamor and oppression, but rather upon the Truth and His justice and sovereignty.   BH07475

Know thou the value of this divine Day and strive that thou mayest perform such deeds as shall diffuse the fragrance of His good-pleasure.  BH08213

We counsel him to observe wisdom in all conditions. He must be mindful of wisdom and turn his gaze solely toward the Most Exalted Horizon.  BH03223

Man must needs possess human qualities. Through God's loving-kindness, all the friends must manifest goodly deeds and spiritual qualities.   BH09448

Fix in thy heart that which the Tongue of Grandeur and Majesty hath spoken, then make mention of it and be not of them that remain silent.   BH03834

At all times be like an obedient servant in service to the loved ones of God, for service to the loved ones of God is service to the Truth.   AB02732

Through the grace and bounty of the Lord God, it is hoped that day by day you will increase in human perfections and divine characteristics   AB12075

It was beautiful to see how 'Abdu'l-Baha did not emphatically deny their assertions, but gave to understand that much of it was imagination.   ABU3212

"We counsel thee and My loved ones unto righteousness and goodly deeds and the fear of God, and unto that which will draw thee nigh unto God"   BH08802

O Jacob...Since you are His friend, fix your gaze on high and turn to the Supreme Concourse and engage in humble devotion to the Abha Kingdom.  AB09615

O thou who art firm in the Covenant! Now is the time for you to gird up the loins of endeavor and uproot this discord from among the friends.   AB00509

We make mention of him with grace and counsel him to pure deeds and to that whereby the Cause of God, the Exalted, the Great, may be uplifted.   BH08716

We counsel the servants of God to righteousness and the fear of God and to that whereby the station of man is exalted in the contingent world.   BH07061

We counsel him and his father to preserve the station of the Afnan there. From this deed, the door of blessing shall be opened before his face   BH03477

Be at rest in the remembrance of God and His love, then detach yourselves from those who have disbelieved in God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH11001

Today the hosts which bear the standards of triumph and the banners of victory have been and continue to be goodly deeds and pleasing character.  BH10074

O handmaidens of God! Strive that ye may become the source of goodly deeds and that your mention may endure through the Most Great Remembrance.   BH07531

Now what remains is that the divine friends must associate with people according to the divine teachings, heavenly counsels and merciful advice   AB06140

Open thine eyes and witness the greatest signs, raise thy hands in supplication to the Court of the Self-Sufficient, seek the most great bounty   AB06398

I beg of God that like unto a candle she may become enkindled in that region with the Fire of Love of God and the light of the Knowledge of god.  AB01882

God willing, may ye all remain firm in His Cause and be attracted by His verses in such wise that its effects become manifest in the earth.   BH05965

Since you have attained to this greatest bounty, now you must engage in teaching the Cause of God in those regions and strive to guide the people  AB02949

I desire to be directed in the true way. Is there any greater desire than this? It is a big desire. This desire cannot be compared to all others.  ABU1733

whosoever attains to this most exalted station and supreme rank, He counsels them to praiseworthy character, goodly deeds and commendable conduct   BH09972

Cast behind thee the names of them who have debarred men from God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy, and hold fast unto the cord of the Most Great Name  BH10035

An interpreter is needed, and likewise one who will remind. Remind the people of that which We have mentioned unto thee in this perspicuous Tablet.  BH06970

The relatives, both men and women, must not delay for an instant in acquiring perfection. Thus have We counseled before and in this Manifest Tablet.  BH10691

Beware lest any remembrance divert thee from His remembrance and His love. Thus doth this Youth command thee, that thou mayest be of them that act.   BH05539

We counsel thee to wisdom in all matters - this is what God has ordained in the Tablets. He is indeed the Ruler, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH02376

The greatness of the teachings of Baha'u'llah will be known when they are acted upon and practiced. Not one of a hundred has as yet come into force.  ABU3307

O people of Baha! Turn ye with all your being unto God and arise to serve the Cause with such strength of heart and resolve as to shake the mountains.  BH10466

However, all must observe the divine ordinances. By My life! They will benefit you and will bring you to a station that cannot be described in words.   BH08898

Therein doth God command you to practice righteousness and piety, and forbiddeth you from transgression and indecency, would that ye might understand.  BH07860

Hold thou fast unto the cord of steadfastness in such wise that neither the might of the oppressors nor the threats of the heedless shall dismay thee.  BH03644

Strive to have noble thoughts and sublime aspirations; endeavour to raise the minds of people and release them from this darkness of blind imitation.   AB05164

Say not unto anyone that which thou wouldst not wish to hear from another, and desire not for any soul that which thou wouldst not desire for thyself.   BH05877

Thy Book hath attained unto acceptance, and We bid thee to act in accordance with what thou possessest, as ordained by One Who is All-Knowing, All-Wise.  BH10350

The friends of God must regard creation with the eye of loving-kindness and draw all to the horizon of guidance through kind counsels and goodly deeds.   BH02884

O people! Fear God and follow not your own affairs. Follow Him Who speaketh amongst the world: "Verily, there is no God but Me, the Mighty, the Beloved."  BH09939

We counsel them unto that which leadeth to the exaltation and elevation of the station of man. Well is it with them that act, and woe unto the heedless.   BH06879

Turn, O My loved ones, with radiant hearts toward the seat of the throne of your Lord, the Lord of Names. Then aid Him through remembrance and utterance.   BH11102

counseling all to justice and fairness and to that which befits this glorious and wondrous Day... Hold fast to goodly deeds and leave all else behind thee   BH07877

Therefore the friends must supplicate to the Abha Kingdom and seek confirmation and success for Abdul-Baha, for the being is weak and the burden is heavy.   AB06876

with heart and soul occupy thyself with the remembrance of the All-Merciful...be occupied with the remembrance of the True One and be detached from all else   BH08132

We counsel thee and all who are on earth to be trustworthy, chaste and faithful, and to act in such ways as will exalt the Cause of God amongst all peoples.   BH04618

O concourse of divines! Consider and call to mind the days when the Sun of Hijaz shone forth from the horizon of the Will of your Lord, the Chosen One.   BH03071

Be thou steadfast in service to the Cause and circle round the Will, and hold fast unto the cord of the loving-kindness of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Gracious.  BH00098

Let thy mind be alert, thy heart alive. Be like a tidal wave in the sea of God's love that thou mayest cast ashore the pearls of truth and inner significance.  AB08603

We counsel thee and My loved ones to observe goodly speech and goodly deeds and praiseworthy conduct, and that which ye have been commanded in the Book of God   BH07419

O people! Fear ye God and deny not yourselves that which hath been revealed in truth. Thus doth counsel you He in Whose possession is a perspicuous Book.   BH05869

Walk thou in My ways, then detach thyself from the deniers. Keep thy distance from them and draw nigh unto God's chosen ones, for in this lieth abundant good.   BH04960

In all circumstances, keep thine eye upon wisdom. This is among the binding counsels of God which hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen in most of the Tablets.  BH00241

Therefore strive to bring forth, through the divine will, the treasures hidden from mortal eyes. This is the counsel of this imprisoned servant to that servant.   BH10654

The friends of God must gird up their loins to serve and become the cause of fellowship and unity of hearts and souls, and in all conditions be mindful of wisdom.  BH05365

When I love people I do not tell them to their faces. You know how much I love Mirza-Abul-Fazl and Haji-Mirza-Heydar-Ali, but I have seldom told them to their faces.  ABU1408

you must always be mindful that no winds of tests from any direction reach the weak ones, and that the weakness of interpretations and doubts not cause souls to waver  AB01768

Take the cup of utterance from the hand of the bounty of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, then drink therefrom by this Name whereby the pillars of all lands have trembled.   BH05259

Know the value of this Day and occupy yourselves with service, that there might appear from you that which will endure through the eternity of My names and attributes.  BH02068

Fear God and pervert not the Word from its place...Have mercy on yourselves and break not God's covenant and testament. This is sincere counsel, were you but hearing.   BH01556

O Muhammad Ja'far! May you be blessed, God willing, with divine grace! The True One, exalted be His glory, has counseled His servants in books, scriptures and psalms...   BH11445

We have counseled all, in the past, with that which will exalt the Cause and manifest the station of man. Blessed is he who hath hearkened, and woe betide the heedless.   BH05220

Remember Him at all times, then convey the Cause of thy Lord with wisdom and utterance. Thus did We command thee before and now, that thou mayest be among those who act.  BH02827

Let not the might of the world frighten thee, nor the utterances of any deluded one cause thee grief. Hold fast unto God in all conditions and cling to His luminous hem.   BH09745

O people of Baha! The Wronged One counseleth you concerning that whereby the Cause of God will be exalted amongst His servants. Verily, He is the All-Knowing Counsellor.   BH09455

Draw them through the influence of Thine utterances unto the Dawning-Place of Thine inspiration, and to the Fountain of Thy Revelation, and to the Treasury of Thy wisdom.  BH07688

Whatever a man's tongue speaketh, that let him prove by his deeds. If he claimeth to be a believer, then let him act in accordance with the precepts of the Abha Kingdom.   AB06194

O servants! We have previously stated that ye are all the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch. In the station of love and kindness be as rain-laden clouds  BH02242

In all conditions fix thy gaze upon the Most Exalted Horizon and arise to serve the Cause in such wise that these transient days deprive thee not of the enduring blessing.  BH01779

Hold fast with complete determination, lest diverse winds prevent thee. In all conditions, keep thy gaze fixed upon the Truth and remain detached and free from aught else.   BH09800

We counsel thee and those who have believed to practice righteousness and the fear of God, and that whereby the Word of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, shall be exalted.   BH10062

Choose ye for yourselves what God hath chosen for you...Rejoice ye in My remembrance of you and arise to that which profiteth you in the world to come and in this first life.  BH05128

Make mention of the loved ones on behalf of the Wronged One and counsel them to trustworthiness and godliness and steadfastness and whatsoever will elevate the station of man  BH04930

We counsel them to righteousness and piety and to that whereby this Great Announcement may be exalted. We enjoin all to wisdom as We have enjoined them before in a clear Book.  BH11634

Raise thou this call as much as thou canst, and sound and blow this clarion continually night and day, so that the souls may become quickened and the people find eternal life.  AB06955

that God willing, as is befitting and proper, you may be adorned with divine counsels and exhortations among the people and associate with divine characteristics and qualities  AB02588

O servants! Let not your station slip from your grasp. Know your worth and the worth of these days, and drink of the choice-sealed wine in the name of the Self-Subsisting.  BH05342

God willing, ye must be the dawning-places of divine counsels among mankind, that through your advice the heedless may turn to the ocean of certitude and the manifest horizon.   BH02385

make thou a mighty endeavour that thou mayest become the manifestation of God's evident proofs and exert thou a mighty effort to become the dawning place of His effulgent light  AB10549


We counsel all to perform pure and holy deeds and to fear God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. One pure deed amongst the deeds of former centuries is as the sun amongst the stars.   BH04574

O leaf! Great is this Day and mighty is this Cause. You must at all times turn to the All-Merciful in such wise that the intimations of deluded souls will not cause you to slip.   BH02477

The Wronged One turns to thee and counsels thee with that which will exalt God's Cause amongst His servants, and with those virtues which We have ordained as hosts for this Cause   BH10921

The entire text consists of definitions and counsels about virtuous qualities and conduct, starting with "The source of all good is trust in God" and continuing through all verses  BH02183

O Rida! Read thou the verses of thy Lord, the Lord of Names. Through them God will open unto thy heart the gate of knowledge and will expand thy breast through this wafting breeze.  BH08353

Show ye an effort! Work unceasingly. Labor diligently;- so that the everlasting Bounty be realized, Eternal life be destined and the nostrils be perfumed with the holy Fragrances.   AB02016

O Handmaiden of Baha! If you knew what bounty from God had been bestowed upon you and what favors you have received, you would surely spread your wings and soar in joy and gladness.  AB03860

In brief, the hope of 'Abdu'l-Baha is this: that the descendents will bring glory to their predecessors, and that the sons will cause the garden of their fathers' hopes to flourish.  AB02119

And if there are any weak ones among the believers, deal with them gently and give counsel - do not be harsh, for harshness causes intensity and obstinacy. Leave them to themselves.  AB01318

This is the counsel of the Wronged One unto all servants. Blessed is he who hath heard and acted according to that which hath been enjoined in the Book of God, the Lord of the worlds   BH09519

The Sun of Truth hath turned from the Most Great Prison towards thee, maketh mention of thee, and counseleth thee to perform good deeds and manifest praiseworthy and pleasing conduct   BH07377

We verily counseled the people aforetime through God's tender mercy, grace, compassion and justice, that every soul might adopt the character of their Lord, the Mighty, the Bountiful.  BH07249

Thus do We teach thee that thou mayest teach the people with wisdom and utterance...Grieve not at anything, but rejoice in the favors of thy Lord and be thou of them that are thankful  BH05846

Strive night and day to conduct yourselves according to the divine teachings. Be refreshing water for the thirsty, healing for the sick in heart and spirit, and [mercy] in both worlds.  AB02724

We counsel all to manifest the most great steadfastness, and chastity, and trustworthiness, and faithfulness, and that kindliness which We have enjoined upon all in My Most Great Book.   BH05233

We give glad-tidings unto all and counsel them to manifest the utmost steadfastness and that whereby the station of man is exalted, that all may attain to that which beseemeth His days.  BH11487

If they cannot arrange to go every Sunday, they must go every other Sunday, if not every other Sunday then once a month. But they must come together and must keep up the Sunday School.   ABU3441

Strive that from the trees of existence such fruits may appear and become manifest as befit the station of man. This is the counsel of the Peerless Friend unto thee and unto His friends   BH06746

Hold thou fast unto the cord of steadfastness in such wise that neither the affairs of men nor the veils of those who have disbelieved in God, the Mighty, the Beloved, may disturb thee.   BH04275

Grieve not at the thoughts of the deniers in your presence, but rely upon God, your Lord. Verily He is the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing in truth, and your Lord has power over all things.  BB00002

Take ye, O My loved ones, the bounds and ordinances of God. Beware lest the intimations of such as have been heedless of God through following the promptings of self and desire debar you.  BH07281

At all times be engaged in the remembrance of the All-Merciful and summon the people to the direction of the All-Glorious. This is the fruit of human existence in this time and all times.  BH02746

Then show mercy to one another, O people, and let none boast over another in anything... And you, strive in the paths of your Lord, then aid the Cause of your Master with all your power.   BH02463

This Wronged One hath at all times enjoined upon the peoples of the earth in general such counsels and wisdom as would extinguish the fire of hatred and sedition, conflict and corruption.  BH01995

You are the children of the new time. Your thoughts should always be as to how you may become wise and good. You should seek sagacity and prudence, and to make progress in the right path.  ABU1483

Therefore immerse yourself in this vast, surging ocean, soar in this lofty, ascending height, sing with the most wondrous melodies in this verdant garden, and hold fast to this firm cord.  AB06065

The Wronged One of the world makes mention of thee from the Most Great Prison and counsels thee to that which is the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God and the elevation of being.   BH09124

Assuredly, you will arise to fulfill all that this blessed title requires, and conduct and behavior will be manifested that will make this title realized and embodied in its full meaning.   AB07337

The photograph of the respected gentleman which Lua had sent was observed. It is hoped that through the outpourings of the Abha Kingdom this person will be guided by the light of guidance.  AB11340

This is the greatest counsel that hath shone forth from the horizon of the Kingdom of Utterance of the Ancient Lord. Seize it through thy Lord's power and cast aside what is with the people.  BH07952

Beware lest ye commit that which would cause sedition. Be united in the Cause and be not of those who differ...Beware lest ye differ in God's Cause and follow the imaginings of the doubters.  BH02228

In all Tablets We have counseled the servants of God to manifest pleasing conduct and praiseworthy deeds, and the Most Exalted Pen has repeatedly and successively reminded the friends of God.  BH07046

It behooveth him to be steadfast in the Cause of God and to hold fast unto the wisdom whose decree We have sent down in the Scriptures of God. Thus doth his Lord, the All-Knowing, teach him.   BH05449

O servants! Practice truthfulness, turn not away from the destitute, make mention of Me before the great ones, and fear not. O servants! Be pure in your deeds and follow the word of your Lord.  BH01509

This Prisoner counseleth all to perform such deeds as shed abroad the fragrance of sincerity. Work ye according to that which ye have been commanded in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH10077

Beware lest anything prevent thee from the remembrance of thy Lord. Leave behind what is with the people and take hold of this Book through a power from thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.  BH09478

Strive, O people, that your names may be mentioned before the Throne and there may appear from you that whereby your remembrance shall endure through the eternity of God, the Lord of existence.  BH02113

O people! Fear God, shed not blood, oppose no soul, and be of the doers of good. Beware lest ye spread corruption in the land after its reformation, and follow not the ways of the heedless.  BH00144

When you consider the end results of things, reality will become evident and the outcome clear and manifest. In matters one must not look at the beginning - consideration of the end is necessary.  AB07964

However, the cause of success and prosperity is trustworthiness and religiosity and effort and zeal, and conduct and movement according to divine teachings. Strive in your work but trust in God.   AB06354

Occupy thyself with the Kingdom as much as thou canst and forget all else save the True One; in order that thou mayest, day by day, find a new power in the Cause of God and gain a great stability.  AB05272

It has rejoiced us to see you and made our hearts glad, and the blessedness of having come here among the first, you cannot yet know. Now your troubles are ended and you must wipe away your tears   ABU1529

We counsel you to observe that which We have revealed in the Book. Hold fast unto it and be not of the heedless ones. Cast behind you the tales of old and cleave unto this Most Great Announcement.   BH07919

We make mention of those who have turned to the Countenance and counsel them regarding the Most Great Trustworthiness and the truthfulness through which man's station is made manifest in creation.   BH05510

We hope they will remain firm, arise with dedication, become attracted to the holy fragrances, and be moved by sincere intentions. May they be self-effacing and devoted to exalting the Word of God   AB11986

O Hasan! Beseech thou the True One to enable thee to build an edifice, whose foundation shall be piety, whose walls shall be divine confirmations, and whose roof shall be fidelity and truthfulness.   BH00554

With every group, even if it be an oppressive party, they must act with the utmost trustworthiness, religiosity and kindness. This is the path of the Baha'is, this is the way of the spiritual ones.   AB05371

Hold fast unto the cord of unity and cleave unto that whereby the Cause of God, your Beloved and the Beloved of them that know, may be exalted. He verily seeth you and heareth what your tongues utter.  BH00063

We counsel thee with that which will cause the elevation of thy station. This Wronged One hath ever enjoined upon His servants that which is conducive to the appearance of divine bounty and blessing.   BH10486

It behooveth everyone who hath turned today to make mention of his Lord with wisdom and utterance, that perchance the people may become aware through His remembrance and hearken unto the decisive Word   BH05850

By God! The Cause hath dawned from this Dayspring quicker than the twinkling of an eye, and there is no refuge nor escape for anyone except that they enter this Most Pure and Most Luminous Ridvan.  BH04149

O people! Fear ye God and follow not him who hath denied the appearance of God and His sovereignty. Cast away what ye possess and take hold of that which ye have been commanded in the Mother Book.  BH00288

We counsel all to observe trustworthiness and truthfulness, and that whereby this mighty, wondrous Cause may be exalted - the Cause at whose appearance all things and the Concourse on High have spoken.  BH08994

My admonition to you is this. Be thoughtful of attaining to that which was the utmost desire of the Saints. Strive with all your heart and soul to attain to the Kingdom of God. This is my wish for you.  ABU1812

Keep the counsels of the Wronged One before your eyes, for whatsoever has been and is spoken is and shall be pure good. Hold fast to the Sure Handle and cling to the hem of the grace of the Lord of Names  BH05435

The Master provides a five-point counsel on how to understand and respond to apparent accidents and suffering, beginning with "Accident is meaninglessness" and ending with complete surrender to God's will.  ABU0500

We counsel thee to remember God and praise Him in thy days. The world and all that thou beholdest today shall pass away, but there shall endure for thee what hath flowed from My Most Exalted Pen in thy name  BH04578

Today one must aid the Cause of God through the hosts of spiritual virtues, goodly words, and deeds that are pleasing and acceptable. These hosts are and have ever been mightier than the hosts of the world.  BH11375

Under all conditions, hold fast to the cord of mercy and regard all with grace. Ye are the flowing rivers that branch from the Most Great Ocean; ye must sacrifice yourselves for the advancement of the world.  BH11577

"Choose not for thyself save that which He hath chosen for thee and commanded thee, for He is the All-Choosing, and hath chosen what His righteous servants, they that are among the most virtuous, have chosen."  BH01025

It is incumbent upon all the friends of God to protect these helpless people lest they become again afflicted with the vain imaginings of the former party and remain deprived of the recognition of the Purpose.  BH03063

Blessed is he who hath told thee My story, caused thee to hear My call, guided thee to My path, given thee to drink of the Kawthar of My love, and sent thee to the Dayspring of the Cause in this noble station   BH07462

Today one must hold fast to that which causeth the exaltation, elevation and glory of the Cause. Thus hath spoken the True One, the Knower of things unseen, aforetime, and the servant heard it with his own ear.  BH00090

Strive, O people of the world, that there may be sent down from the Supreme Pen that which shall preserve your names, your spirits and your stations in a Book which none hath known save God, the Lord of Lords.   BH09899

We beseech God to adorn him with the light of turning unto Him, that he may hold fast unto it, severed from all else save Him. This is God's decree, both in the past and in the future, but most men know it not.  BH11919

My object in taking that long journey through the West was to awaken them out of this sleep; that they may not grovel all the time in the world of matter and that they may not only think of eating and drinking.   ABU2251

We counsel all to love, mercy and fellowship. Verily He is the Lord of creation, the Merciful to His servants, the Protector of lands. There is none other God but He, the Commander in the beginning and in the end.  BH00247

It biddeth the people to observe justice and to work righteousness, and forbiddeth them to follow their corrupt inclinations and carnal desires, if perchance the children of men might be roused from their slumber.   BH04818

The loved ones of God must appear before all people adorned with the ornament of trustworthiness, truthfulness and purity, and must strive with all their might to foster the unity of hearts and fellowship of souls   BH04340

Be very kind and serve every one; become lovers of justice and pray for the whole of mankind; help the poor and the children; heal the sick; shelter the refugees; and be known by your lives as the children of God.   ABU0977

Thou must, with the utmost striving and endeavor, and with wisdom and utterance, engage in spreading the divine mention and verses. Verily He will assist thee and manifest for thee what hath been ordained for thee.   BH04795

Stand firm in that land and reform the deeds of those who spread corruption therein while claiming "We are the reformers"... O Yahya, recite unto him what God hath permitted thee and kindle him with thy Lord's fire   BB00503

You must at all times call every soul to forbearance and calm and encourage them to tread the path of godly character and spiritual truths, and inspire them to walk in the footsteps of the martyr in the path of God   AB00611

O chosen one! Among all the servants, thou wert the first to attain unto God Himself and to believe in His presence. Stand thou firm in the Cause in such wise that through thy steadfastness all may become steadfast.   BH02200

Therefore act and move according to the teachings of the Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones), so that divine force may aid thee in all conditions and thy ultimate desire may be realized.   AB06907

And thou, O Mohsen, do thou show kindness unto thyself, then unto the people of God who are with thee, then unto those who follow God's decree in the atomic realm of immortality and were possessed of evident certitude  BH05670

Be thou articulate in His remembrance and steadfast in His service in such wise that neither the veils of the world nor the allusions of them who have disbelieved in God, the Mighty, the Loving, shall hold thee back.   BH04819

We counsel thee with wisdom and utterance, and with that which will draw thee nigh unto the praiseworthy station. Beware lest the veils of the people debar thee from the Day of God, the Lord of the unseen and the seen.  BH04856

Now, if thou wishest to know the true remedy which will heal man from all sickness and will give him the health of the divine kingdom, know that it is the precepts and teachings of God. Focus thine attention upon them.  AB03722

This servant hopes that through the power of thy steadfastness every wavering one may become firm and every vain soul disappointed. May all return to the Covenant and Testament and become mindful of falling into loss.   AB02841

Beware lest the veils of the world and its manifestations and colors prevent you. Arise to promote the Cause with complete dedication and great steadfastness, and summon humanity unto truth through wisdom and utterance.  BH10067

He counseleth all to such deeds, actions and utterances as will cause the exaltation of God's Cause, and whose very performance will testify to their sanctity and detachment from whatsoever is contrary to the Book of God  BH10201

We command them to unity and love and to that which God hath revealed in the Book. In this case they will surely witness that which will bring forth joy and gladness and delight and exultation, and all will be made happy.  BH02716

We counsel thee and My loved ones in that land to be patient and forbearing, and to manifest that whereby the signs of justice may be revealed amongst the servants. Verily, thy Lord is the All-Patient, the All-Forbearing.  BH00146

Be luminous, so that you may bestow eternal illumination upon the world of humanity and dispel the sorrowful darkness of humankind. May you become a light from the Supreme Horizon and a radiant beam from the Abha Kingdom.  AB10929

Therefore, guide everyone day and night to that which brings comfort to 'Abdu'l-Baha's heart, and lead them through blessed character and conduct. Be a divine counselor and guide to the path of spiritual joy and delight.   AB06084

O friends! A time will come when I shall depart from among you. I have done what needed to be done. To the extent of my strength, I have served the Cause of Baha'u'llah. Day and night throughout my life I have not rested.  AB02869

O son of Abhar! Look not at the people and their deeds, neither be thou grieved by their derision, their words and their actions. Fix thy gaze upon the Most Sublime Horizon, and voice His praise in the kingdom of creation.  BH11637

Therefore He gave counsels and exhortations and established a pure and radiant Law that ensures the enlightenment of the human world and regulates the chastity, virtue and steadfastness of the friends of the All-Merciful.   AB00531

We have counseled all to be trustworthy, truthful and faithful, and to manifest those qualities through which the Cause of God was revealed in former ages. Blessed is he who hath heard and acted, and woe unto the heedless.   BH10627

Pay no attention - stay focused on your work. Hold general meetings in your home and give eloquent talks with complete courage, and be assured that the breaths of the Holy Spirit will assist you and you will be victorious.   AB01188

Thou must needs hold fast to such goodly deeds and praiseworthy character that their fragrance shall be diffused. In all conditions God hath confirmed and will confirm thee. Be thou assured and be of those who are steadfast.   BH03910

O people! Follow what God hath commanded you from the heaven of His Cause and cast it not behind your backs. This is what this Youth, Who hath been mentioned by the name of God amongst the peoples of the world, counseleth you.  BH03387

We counsel thee to be steadfast in this Cause, for through it the feet of them that have attained have slipped. Turn not unto the world and its affairs. In all matters place thy trust in God, the Single One, the All-Informed.   BH00644

"Studying the situation I returned to the garden and call the friends to come and pull the camel out of the stream. They brought the cords and with it tied the feet, the tail, the neck of the camel but they could not save it."  ABU1553

Be thou steadfast in the Cause in such wise that the sincere ones may find in thee that which beseemeth the days of thy Lord, the All-Knowing. Preserve this most exalted station through the name of thy Lord, the Most Glorious.   BH10770

Therefore must the loved ones of God carry out His commandments with the utmost joy and fragrance, and shun that which He hath forbidden. This is the supreme counsel that hath issued forth from the Pen of the Lord of eternity.   BH08007

I swear by the Light of the world that any deed performed in these days for the sake of God shall be reckoned among the most excellent of deeds. Strive that ye may attain unto that which befitteth and beseemeth the Days of God.  BH07603

All are commanded today to observe wisdom, and this firm divine decree hath been revealed in most of the Tablets, for lack of wisdom hath been and shall be the cause of commotion among the people and the perturbation of souls.   BH06286

You have ever been favored by God's loving-kindness - strive, therefore, that this supreme gift may remain preserved. Such is the testament of this Wronged One, the Prisoner, unto the loved ones of God, glorified be His majesty.  BH10719

That which is necessary today has been and will be to act according to the divine ordinances. One must summon the people to the highest horizon with the utmost wisdom and to act according to what hath been sent down in the Book.  BH07277

Ponder, O people, then read what We have sent down in truth. Verily it guideth you unto My Straight Path. Hold fast unto the cord of your Lord's loving-kindness and abandon that which ye were commanded by every ignorant doubter.   BH08516

Remind the people of this announcement which hath been sent down in the Tablets. Say: O people! When ye hear the call of the Calf, leave it behind you. This is what God hath counseled you, for verily He is witness to all things.   BH05030

Therefore I hope that you will arise to exalt the Word of God, for today the hosts of divine confirmation and success are rushing forth and awaiting the arising of sincere souls. Whoever arises will be victorious and triumphant.   ABU1073

We counsel you to fear God and to that whereby His Cause is exalted amongst the servants. Consort with all people with spirit and fragrance, and remind them with wisdom of that which will profit them in the beginning and the end.   BH02426

I counsel thee to be patient and tranquil, and to observe that which God hath revealed in His Book. Circle round the will of My Afnan, upon whom be My glory and My mercy and My loving-kindness, then follow what he commandeth thee.   BH10306

O handmaiden of God! Make mention of thy Lord in His days - days which were promised in the Mother Book. Withhold not thyself from the fragrances of thy Lord, for whoso withholdeth himself therefrom is indeed deprived of all good.   BH09048

Continue attending to affairs with the utmost joy, delight and greatest gladness. We beseech God to assist you in completing your tasks. You have truly undergone hardship, but arise to set matters right with perfect steadfastness.   BH03905

The first thing incumbent upon the friends of God is to purify their hearts from rancor and hatred, to sanctify and cleanse themselves from bestial qualities, and to act upon the divine ordinances with the utmost joy and fragrance.   BH01578

O ye heedless ones, become mindful! O ye sleeping ones, be awakened! O ye blind ones, become seeing! O ye deaf ones, become hearing! O ye dumb ones, become speakers! O ye dead ones, become living! O ye deprived ones, take a portion!  AB05983

O people! Follow not your vain imaginings, nor take the property of others wrongfully, nor dispute with anyone... Be emblems of guidance among all creatures and manifestations of the favors of your Lord, the Kind, the Merciful.   BH09484

We bid thee deal with kindness towards his family and with justice and equity in all matters. We have counseled thee and them that believe in Tablets numerous with that which shall cause the Cause of God to be exalted above all else   BH02565

We counsel all to observe that which hath been revealed in the Book of God. Whoso acteth in accordance therewith in this Day is reckoned among the people of Baha. Say: It behooveth you to observe goodly deeds, and again goodly deeds.   BH04350

"I counsel thee to fear God Who created thee by His command and made thee to be of the guided ones. Be patient in all that hath befallen Us and be not dismayed by anything. Therefore, be patient in thyself and be of the patient ones."  BH03458

The souls who have accepted must hold fast to the divine Tablets and act according to whatsoever hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen in the Most Holy Book. This is a bounty whereunto nothing in the heavens and earth can be compared.   BH10027

Fix your gaze upon the Most Exalted Horizon and turn unto the Source of His Cause. Today, goodly words and righteous deeds are the manifestors and revealers of His Cause. Blessed is he who holdeth fast unto them. Woe unto the heedless!   BH08010

This Wronged One makes mention of the friends of God in all conditions and commands them to perform goodly deeds, manifest praiseworthy conduct, and fear God. His purpose has been and continues to be the exaltation of the Word of Unity.  BH06105

Be as standards upon the hills among the servants - this behooveth you, did ye but know. Be horizons of guidance among all creatures, such that all may receive blessings from your breaths and be illumined by the lamp of your utterance.   BH04272

Those souls who today are sheltered beneath the shade of the Divine Word must first consider in all matters what benefits the Cause of God, and then attend to their own interests, so that the foundation may be established firm and solid.  AB05210

It is my hope that all the friends will arise in the service of the Cause; that they will live in accord with the Teachings of Baha'u'llah and the contents of my addresses; so that these Teachings may not become like Bible, unfulfilled.   ABU2775

Be thou speaking in My praise, gazing toward My horizon, turning unto My face, and standing firm in the service of My wondrous Cause. We have counseled thee with that which shall be a lamp unto thee in the worlds of thy Lord.   BH03829

We counsel you, O My loved ones, to fear God and to follow what hath been sent down in His preserved Book. Act ye in accordance with what hath been revealed therein with joy and radiance. It will surely lead you to a praiseworthy station.  BH11059

At all times one should consider positive possibilities in matters and attribute good intentions, or hidden obstacles. When this is one's approach, peace of mind and tranquility of conscience result; otherwise one is constantly tormented.  AB02892

We counsel thee and those who have believed to show forth such steadfastness as will cause the heaven of idle fancies to be cleft asunder, the earth of vain imaginings to be split open, and the mountain of the people's conceit to crumble.   BH10413

"You should conduct yourself with people in the same way as he conducted himself with them...In any case, you must, God willing, act in such a way that all the inhabitants of the Supreme Concourse and the angels brought nigh will rejoice."  BH05637

Stand firm in the Cause through the power of thy Lord and remind the people with wisdom and utterance. Beware lest the affairs of men hold thee back from the truth. Leave the world behind and take what God hath sent down in His mighty Book.  BH07248

O ?abibu'llah! We counsel thee and them that have believed to be trustworthy and chaste, and to that wherefrom the detached ones perceive the fragrance of detachment, and the sincere ones the sweet savour of My glorious and beloved garment.  BH01395

Their purpose hath been and still is the guidance of mankind. Whatsoever is the cause of preservation of the servants and the exaltation of their stations is recorded in the Books. Blessed are they that understand and that act accordingly!   BH06753

Strive as much as thou canst to manifest thyself in the world of existence and the realm of visibility with the utmost spiritual freshness, inner delicacy and luminous vigor, and to be stirred by the breezes from the garden of the Covenant.  AB08313

Today is the day of pure deeds, and deeds are the witness and testimony to words. Words without deeds were never and are not worthy of mention. We beseech God to aid all to perform deeds whose fragrance shall never be cut off from the world.  BH00486

I beseech God that that father and those pure-natured sons may all be enamored of that Beloved One and be guided to the straight path, and may become, through their pure and goodly character, sweeter and more delightful than honey and sugar.  AB09389

"O servant! Follow what We have sent down unto thee aforetime, then walk in the paths of the sanctified ones. Say: O people! Gather ye together in the Cause of God and differ not concerning Him Who hath come unto you with every wise command."  BH07288

At all times ye must remind the people of that city of the divine verses with perfect wisdom, that perchance the darkness of the vain imaginings of heedless souls may not prevent the friends from the splendors of the rays of the Sun of Truth.  BH04269

O party of God! Fear God and follow not your desires. Follow what hath been sent down from the heaven of Command in My perspicuous Book. We have counseled you, and do counsel you, with that which will exalt the Cause of God and your stations.   BH01199

The point is that today there is no salvation or success except through following and acting according to divine counsels and exhortations. These heavenly teachings are what will revive Iran, but conditional upon their being put into practice.  AB00823

We counsel thee to be steadfast and God-fearing in the Cause of God, the Lord of all mankind. Beware lest anything whatsoever debar thee from the Lord of Names or cause thee to tremble at the might of those who have denied the Day of Judgment.   BH01142

Strive ye, that through the name of the Beloved of the World, ye may preserve the pearls of the love of the Ancient Lord in the treasuries of hearts from thieves and robbers. This is the counsel of this Wronged One unto His leaves and handmaidens.  BH08536

Deprive not thyself, but take for thyself near the throne a station that is faithful to the truth, lest thou be seized by the casting of intimations from every wretched opponent. And the Glory be upon thee if thou remainest steadfast in the Cause.  BH07756

Hearken thou unto the Call of this Wronged One, and lay fast hold on all that He hath mentioned. He, verily, is the Faithful Counsellor. See that thou spare no effort in doing all thou canst to protect the people's claims upon the King of Martyrs   BH03912

O maidservant of God! I hope that through the grace and bounty of the Intended Lord and the Sovereign of the unseen and seen, He will raise up women who will be manifest signs of this Most Great Revelation and evident standards among the nations.   AB06586

Follow ye your Lord in respect to virtuous conduct - this is better for you than whatsoever is in the heavens and earths. Say: Avoid ye grievous sins and draw not nigh unto that which calleth you to the fire. Fear ye God and be of the God-fearing.   BH07717

O people! Fear ye God, shed not blood, consume not the substance of others, and follow not every ignorant one who hath turned away from the Truth and turned towards one that is heedless and remote. Hold thou fast unto the cord of remembrance.   BH06608

He counseleth you with that which draweth you nigh unto God, the Lord of all worlds - with trustworthiness, religious devotion, chastity and fidelity, and with that through which the essence of justice may be made manifest in the contingent world.   BH06598

Therefore, O ye who are intoxicated with the wine of the divine covenant and O ye who are lovers of the countenance of Truth, strive to become the dawning-places of the signs of divine unity and the rising-points of the lights of the Glorious Lord.  AB03613

Thou must, God willing, be ever turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon and act in accordance with that which befitteth the Day of God. Know thou the value of these days and occupy thyself with the remembrance of the Best-Beloved of all possibility.   BH04580

We counsel the loved ones of God with that which conduceth to the elevation of souls and the reformation of the world. No host hath been or is mightier than goodly deeds and pure character. With these hosts must they conquer the citadels of hearts.   BH01537

They must not rest a moment nor take a breath of ease. Nay, rather, night and day must they be striving, working and serving! And with perfect severance, spirituality and the best intent and effort must they hasten to promulgate the Divine Teaching   AB00530

O my handmaiden! Rejoice in My mention, for it is better for thee than every deed and every wise command. Beware lest the veils of women hold thee back from the Lord of Names, or the deeds of the idolaters frighten thee from this clear announcement.   BH06342

Arise to that which will cause the exaltation of the Word of God, and with complete humility speak His praise. Verily, He maketh mention of him who maketh mention of Him, and ordaineth for him what beseemeth His glorious and wondrous bounty.  BH01070

For today it is binding and obligatory upon everyone, whether female or male, that their deeds be in accordance with the divine good-pleasure. The Truth has, in most of His Tablets, commanded His maidservants and servants to perform praiseworthy deeds  BH08130

"O friends! Listen with the ear of the soul to the counsels and admonitions of the Ancient Beauty. As much as you are able, hurt no one's feelings and sadden no heart. Be the cause of joy to hearts and the source of gladness to the world of humanity."  AB01272

O my beloved! Arise from thy couch, stand up from thy resting place, and strive with utmost endeavor and consummate wisdom which cannot be surpassed to spread the divine fragrances until the horizons are perfumed and heedlessness and hypocrisy vanish.  AB12164

Now doth this servant submit: O brother, strive that in these divine days thou mayest acquire infinite bounties and be blessed with eternal favors [...] By the True One Himself, whatsoever is lost by any soul in this day shall be difficult to recover.   BH01233

It is time for the friends to free themselves from every thought and occupy themselves with guiding the seekers and directing the lost. If they do this, the rays of the manifest light will, in a brief time, illuminate and brighten the face of the earth.  AB04370

O friends! Reflect upon the proof of the All-Merciful and deprive not yourselves of the eternal realms for the sake of ephemeral days. Cling ye to the cord of the Cause with such firmness that the entire world shall be powerless to separate you from it.   BH04937

I praised God for illumining hearts, purifying souls, and bringing rest to spirits through a universal outpouring sanctified from forms. I beseech Him to make you a sign of guidance among humanity and a banner of bounty waving over the heads of the wise.  AB01995

Show patience with Mahdi Beheshti as well; perhaps he will remember or fear God. Be infinitely kind to the Iranians. Engage only in praising the righteous, and strive that, God willing, Abu'l-Hassan Khan may become attracted to the Beauty of the Beloved.  AB03972

This entire tablet is an exhortation to spiritual virtues and proper conduct, particularly: "Strive thou to attain to such a station that mention of it shall endure as long as God's most beautiful names endure. Reflect a little and act as befitteth thee."  BH05969

Divine counsels are a spiritual feast sent down from the heaven of the All-Merciful Will. The friends must appreciate the value of this everlasting bounty and not lose this most great favor and most perfect grace through the conjectures of transient souls.  BH10017

Fear God and follow not your desires. Follow Him Who hath come to you with a manifest sovereignty. Beware lest the ornaments of the world withhold you from the Lord of Names. Leave behind what ye possess by command of God, the Ordainer, the All-Wise.   BH08091

While time remaineth and opportunity existeth, strive that perchance thou mayest attain to that which beseemeth the days of God. This is the counsel of the Wronged One unto the friends of God. Blessed is he who heareth and acteth, and woe unto the heedless.   BH08027

Know thou the value of these days and then thank thy Lord for having aided thee to recognize Him when every distant learned one and every doubtful servant turned away from Him. All handmaidens of God must act according to what God hath revealed in the Book.   BH07544

For some time no letter has arrived and no fresh breeze has blown. Is laziness the cause, or coldness? If so, this is the utmost shame, for laziness and coldness cannot coexist with the warmth of the love of God. Until one burns, one cannot become a candle.   AB04534

Be thou steadfast in this station in such wise that neither the doubts of men nor the allusions of the heedless shall cause thee to slip. Beware lest anything prevent thee from this most exalted station or any matter debar thee from this resplendent horizon.   BH06946

I have the utmost love for thee and I ask God that thou mayest become assisted in the world and in the Kingdom and precede Paul and Peter in spreading the Word of God and diffusing the fragrances of God and become a manifest ensign in the regions of America.   AB07146

The divine counsels of the All-Merciful and the heavenly exhortations of the Lord are recorded and inscribed in every leaf, and the primary purpose hath been and is to extinguish the fire of hatred and animosity, and likewise to elevate and exalt their stations.  BH11920

Remember my counsels, heed my advice. Act in such wise that you may shine forth in the Kingdom of God and adorn your countenance with the light of Baha and the radiance of the Covenant. Show forth a lofty aspiration and be not content with a moment or a dewdrop.  AB08412

"Gird up the loins of service and enter the company of the angels of the kingdom of oneness so that on the shore of the Most Great Sea you may catch the thirsty fish of the ocean of understanding and in the land of unity hunt the gazelles in the meadow of truth"  AB00413

Now if the friends of God were to act according to that first hadith, that is, according to one of the Tablets of the Ancient Beauty, may His glory be exalted, it would be better than waiting each day for a new letter and fresh instructions and in this state...   ABU3298

We make mention of Our loved ones and counsel them to perform goodly deeds and display praiseworthy conduct, and to do that which distanceth man from ignorance and draweth him nigh unto knowledge, sanctifieth him from corruption and adorneth him with reformation.  BH00715

O people of the earth! Hearken unto the Call that hath been raised from this Station which hath been named the Heaven of Heavens in My Great Tablet. It summoneth you unto God and teacheth you that which shall profit you in the world to come and in this first life   BH07824

O loved ones of the All-Merciful in all lands! Remember your Lord with spirit and fragrance, and hold fast unto that which ye have been commanded in His perspicuous Book. He hath commanded you that which profiteth you - to this testifieth every discerning scholar.   BH09902

Counsel the servants to trustworthiness and godliness, and to that whereby the Word of God may be exalted amongst His servants. Hold thou fast in all conditions unto the wisdom that hath been sent down in the Book, a command from God, the Sovereign of the Kingdom.   BH02399

"In truth, those regions have the utmost capacity, but souls are needed who will shine like candles in that niche and breathe the spirit of life into souls, guiding them to the path of guidance, so that divine inspirations may become manifest from human realities."  AB06605

Thus doth command thee He Who hath spoken that there is none other God but I, the One Who commandeth, the All-Wise. Say: O people, hold fast unto that which draweth you nigh unto God and profiteth you in all His worlds. He, verily, is the Counselor, the All-Knowing.   BH05880

Counsel the servants regarding trustworthiness and truthfulness, and to act according to what hath been revealed in the Tablets. Say: O people! Adorn yourselves with the attributes of the All-Merciful in the realm of possibility. Beware lest ye follow your passions.   BH04726

Cast away vice and lay hold of virtue, by the command of One Who is All-Knowing, All-Wise. Your riches and whatsoever ye possess shall profit you not. Cast away vain imaginings and take hold of that which hath been vouchsafed unto you from God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH04424

The disciples of Jesus, passing along the road and seeing a dead dog, remarked how offensive and disgusting a spectacle it was. Then Christ turning to them said, 'Yes, but see how white and beautiful are his teeth' - thus teaching that there is some good in everything   ABU3335

In any case, thou must continually guide the loved ones of God to be firm and steadfast in the Covenant and Testament, so that when the waves of doubts crash against the mighty barrier of certitude, they are turned back and drown those same followers of ambiguous words.  AB02540

O My friends! Act ye in accordance with what ye have been commanded in the Book. Well is it with the one who fulfilleth My decrees for the love of My Beauty, and woe to the one who neglecteth the Dayspring of Command in the days of his Lord, the Almighty, the Omnipotent.   BH06563

Today, the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty are with the soul who utterly forgets himself, constantly investigates his own faults and defects, loosens his tongue in mentioning the good qualities and sublime susceptibilities of others, does not see or hear or speak evil.  ABU0068

Now you must return to that glorious tribe, associate with the khans, seek eternal glory for them, and befriend them with conduct befitting the people of Baha, so that you may educate them with divine education and raise them from the lowest depths to the highest heights.   AB12103

O people of the Bayan! Don ye the shirt of wisdom! O people of the Bayan! Put on the robe of unity! For differences in your ranks return unto Him Whom God shall make manifest in such wise as to grieve Him. Therefore, fear ye God and differ not in any command or prohibition.  BB00005

You must occupy yourself with the remembrance of God with perfect steadfastness, and remind the loved ones of God of that which is the good-pleasure of Truth and the welfare of creation. He has commanded all to wisdom, and therein lies the welfare of all, were they to know.   BH09211

Wisdom is a light that illuminates the world of knowledge. The friends must at all times observe wisdom and drink from its fountainhead. With utmost forbearance and through goodly utterances, they should lead people from the left hand of doubt to the right hand of certitude.  BH00106

And thou, O servant, shun those who have disbelieved and associated partners with God and turned away after having accepted, and were among the deniers. Purify thyself from all allusions, then arise to serve the Cause of God, the Holy, the Exalted, the All-Knowing, the Wise.   BH04297

Leave thou those who have denied the signs of God, and take hold, with the hand of submission, of My mighty Tablet. We have commanded all to that which profiteth them. Some have turned towards it and some have turned away, and he who turneth away is among the distracted ones.   BH10898

Hold fast to that which will exalt the Cause of God, then shun that which you have been forbidden in the Book of your Lord, the Evident, the All-Informed. Be not grieved at anything, for He is with you and ordains for you that which will profit you in this world and the next.   BH02885

We counsel Our handmaidens to observe the most great sanctity from this most great and luminous Horizon. Work ye according to what ye have been commanded in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds. Know ye the value of these days and glorify His Name, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH10169

O people, fear God and associate not partners with Him, and think not evil thoughts, and slander not His chosen ones, and consume not the wealth of others, and commit not oppression and wickedness if ye be of those who are certain of God's decree in the Tree of His Cause.   BH02606

Strive thou that in the days of God thou mayest act in a manner befitting and meet - that is, that ye may act according to that which hath been revealed in the Book of God and which causeth not the clamor of the people - so that the fragrance of holiness may be wafted from thee.   BH10380

Know thou that protection lieth in God's hand - He protecteth whom He willeth through His sovereignty and none can avert that which is ordained. Be thou at peace within thyself, then arise and say: "O people! The Beauty of Him Who was promised hath come with manifest sovereignty."  BH02235

O friends of God in His earth, His chosen ones in His lands, and His party among His creatures! Purify your hearts from the stories of the past, through attachment to which the feet of the people of the past have slipped, those who prided themselves over the world and all peoples.  BH00080

As much as you can, with an eloquent tongue engage in heavenly conversation, receive divine radiance, become a mirror of the higher realm, seek the comfort of creation, pursue friendship, search for truth, desire reconciliation, be kind, be generous, seek the freedom of both worlds.  AB06987

Act ye in such wise as will cause your mention to endure in the Book which none toucheth save such as are steadfast and firm. Let not the affairs of the world sadden thee. Rejoice thou in this remembrance than which nothing that hath been created in the heavens or on earth can equal.  BH10485

It is time for singing, warbling and melodies, and the season for kindling the fire of the love of God. If in this Most Great Cycle, which shines bright like the sun among all other cycles, one remains silent and stunned, in what cycle will they become eloquent, speaking and explaining?   AB02730

Let not that which hath appeared from the dayspring of tyranny frighten thee, and let not the clamor of every remote ignorant one sadden thee. Hold fast unto the cord of wisdom in all circumstances, lest there appear that which would sadden the hearts of those who have turned towards God.   BH08578

"Therefore I hope that through the aid of the Lord you will keep his lamp burning, water his cultivation, and nurture his sapling - nay, that you will be enabled to achieve even greater things... In any case, strive to fill his cup to overflowing and become the joy of the righteous ones."   AB06202

O people of God! Today the Blessed Tree hath no need of aught else to establish His Cause, for it hath appeared with countless sweet fruits, manifest and evident. Blessed is the one whom the doubts of the world have not prevented from turning to God nor held back from drawing nigh unto Him.  BH00133

Therefore fear ye, O people of the Bayan, for by this shall you be tested, and through your allegiance to Him Whom God shall make manifest shall you be delivered. Be not veiled by your circumstances, for all glory belongeth unto God and unto Him Whom God shall make manifest, if ye but knew.  BB00003

Arise and, armed with the power of faith, shatter to pieces the gods of your vain imaginings, the sowers of dissension amongst you. Cleave unto that which draweth you together and uniteth you. This, verily, is the most exalted Word which the Mother Book hath sent down and revealed unto you.   BH05684

First, detach yourselves from all things, then secondly believe in your Lord. And if ye do not do this, then at least feel shame. If ye cannot make Him happy, at least grieve Him not. This is the whole of your cause, this is the whole of your religion, this is all that would please you.  BB00034

You must make firm the feet at the time when these trials transpire, and demonstrate forbearance and patience. You must withstand them with the utmost love and kindness; consider their oppression and persecution as the caprice of children, and do not give any importance to whatever they do.   AB04995

Now I counsel all that, God willing, they may hereafter move in perfect unity and remain steadfast in the Cause, discerning with insight between truth and falsehood, for truth is as manifest from falsehood as the radiant morn from the dark night. Let them not cling to their own suppositions.   BH02319

Strive to attain nearness to reality through the acquisition of strength of character, through morality, through good works and helping the poor, through being consumed with the fire of the love of God and in discovering each day new spiritual mysteries. This is the path of intimate approach.  ABU1585

The friends of God must, with wisdom and utterance, deliver the oppressed servants from the claws of these oppressors. Blessed is the soul who hath firmly girded up the loins of endeavor for this service - such a one is recorded and mentioned in the Book of Names as being of the people of Baha.  BH04670

If you succeed in this, they will become laughing hundred-petaled roses in the divine rose garden, swaying cypresses by the divine stream, growing and flourishing in the spiritual garden, putting forth leaves and blossoms, bearing fresh fruit, and becoming the adornment of the highest paradise.   AB05852

You must certainly exercise the utmost vigilance and explicitly forbid everyone from this, for no characteristic is more harmful than this trait of fault-finding, especially in relation to the Cause of God. Never should anyone express a word or hint that is unworthy about any of the friends of God.  AB08379

Therefore, follow the path of Christ and traverse His vast arena, and follow the people of God in every time and place. As for political affairs, they are temporary and partial matters with no substance beneath them, and no one who has tasted the sweetness of the love of God occupies himself with them.  AB00191

In most of the Divinely-revealed Tablets We have enjoined upon all wisdom, unity, laudable deeds and a praiseworthy character. Though all have read these, and become aware of the Divine precepts, yet have they remained far distant from the Straight Path, and given precedence rather to their own desires.  BH03510

Why are you silent? Why are you quiet? Why are you sad? Why are you grieved? We who are servants at the threshold of the Beloved of the horizons - our joy and delight come from the exaltation of God's Cause, not from nightly drinking and the sound of harp and flute and drunken inclinations and emotions.  AB01414

Since you are the descendant of that glorious one, you must follow his example and traverse the stages of servitude, engaging in service with heart and soul, sacrificing yourself, being joyous and successful, so that you too may become a sign of the All-Merciful at life's end and enter the divine world.   AB05163

If others are caught in the sleep of heedlessness, you must become awakened and day and night seek forgiveness and beg pardon for sins. He says "Verily God loves those who turn in repentance" and likewise He says "Guard against an affliction that will not strike only those among you who have done wrong."  AB01136

Deal with him in such matters that the fire of sedition may not be kindled between you, for this is nearer unto grace, and We have ever been gracious. Moreover, counsel him with wisdom and goodly exhortation, and contend not with him lest enmity arise between you, until God shall bring about His purpose.   BH00366

O Branch! Upon thee be My glory and My loving-kindness. We counsel thee and those who have believed to observe trustworthiness, godliness, forgiveness and generosity, that the lights of virtuous character may shine forth and illumine the earth amidst this darkness that hath encompassed the kingdom of God.  BH10993

These are not days of grief - be thou engaged in the remembrance of the All-Merciful with the utmost joy and fragrance. Forget not the divine counsels which thou didst hear face to face from the tongue of the Most Great Oneness, and speak not that which would cause the hearts of the servants to be consumed.  BH07561

O people! Follow not your passions, nor walk in the footsteps of them who have denied God, the Lord of the mighty Throne. Beware lest the world beguile you from God, the Creator of earth and heaven. Cast away what ye possess in your search for that which is with your Lord, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH06303

Be content with what God hath been pleased with, and be not one who doubteth His Cause...Purify thyself from the allusions of the people, then thy breast from that which hindereth thee from this bounty...Let not thy soul be troubled, and fear no one. Look unto God and what is with Him, not what is with thee.  BH03612

Today is the day for the manifestation of deeds. We have ever counseled the servants of God to fear God [...] It is hoped that the effulgences of the Luminary of utterance which have shone forth from the horizon of God's Book will illumine all and adorn them with the raiment of the Most Great Infallibility.   BH02761

And although they show perfect diligence and attention in service to Arbab Bahman, they must show even greater effort and demonstrate extreme zeal and dedication, for Arbab Bahman is truly good-natured and kind. They must show him consideration in all respects, for faithfulness to him is service to the Truth.   AB05671

"Let thy food be the heavenly table and thy drink the sweet waters from the ocean of oneness. Let thy gift become the flowing treasure of God and thy bestowal the water of life from the garden of Paradise, so that thy name may be exalted in the divine world and thy designation honored in the heavenly Kingdom."  AB06170

Remember thy Lord by night and by day, and voice His praise amongst His servants, that perchance through His praise the fire of His love may be kindled in the hearts of the well-favored, and all may arise to praise God, their Lord and the Lord of all that is seen and unseen, and the Lord of your fathers of old.  BH00297

The Wronged One counsels His loved ones with that which will elevate their stations before God: pure fear of God, goodly deeds, trustworthiness, religious devotion, chastity, truthfulness, patience, steadfastness, deliberation and reflection, and acting according to what they have been commanded in the Book.   BH01633

Take hold of the Book of God with the power bestowed by Him, then act according to that which beseemeth His days. He, verily, is the True Counsellor, the Trustworthy. Be thou steadfast in that which is good and act in accordance with that which thou hast been commanded in the Book of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.  BH08195

O My loved ones! Hold fast unto goodly deeds and follow not those who hold fast unto words rather than deeds. These, verily, are among the heedless. Say: It behoveth you that from you should be wafted the sweet savors of My morals and the holy, mighty, pure and radiant fragrances of My deeds throughout all worlds.  BH04216

Follow in all matters thy Lord, the Lord of Revelation, in such wise that nothing shall prevent thee from celebrating His praise amongst His servants. This is what God hath chosen for His chosen servants who sleep in His love and arise in His remembrance and move by His command and proclaim wisdom among His creatures.   BH02738

Therefore strive within yourselves to reach such station in your love that ye move not save by His leave, nor turn save unto the paths of His good-pleasure, nor speak save that which ye are commanded in His Book. Thus did We counsel you before and thus do We counsel you at this time of separation from the shores of Iraq.   BH02697

In all circumstances hold fast to wisdom and cleave thereunto. The gatherings of friends, when they exceed the bounds of moderation, will become a cause of agitation among souls, for until this time the people of the earth, their divines, and their rulers have not been informed of the purpose of God, exalted be His glory.  BH00013

The bounty of God hath been and shall, if it be His will, continue to be with thee. He is the Commander, the All-Knowing and the Omnipotent. He commandeth His lovers to do that which is the cause of their salvation and prosperity. Cling thou to the Cause of thy Lord. It verily benefitteth thee in every world of His worlds.  BH04629

Do not imagine that you have been forgotten or that we have ceased to mention you... The exigencies of the time and wisdom required that all should not be fettered... Indeed separation from the Holy Land was difficult for you, but one must be patient and forbearing. Besides submission and contentment what choice is there?   AB02875

Should you act upon what hath been mentioned, it will serve as the supreme means for the manifestation of detachment and of the fear of God, the Mighty, the Praised. Take what thou hast been commanded by the Truth and cast aside all that the people possess of idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH00236

We counsel thee to observe wisdom lest there occur that which God abhorreth and the clamor of them that have denied the Day of Judgment be raised. Hold thou fast unto the cord of wisdom in all circumstances. Verily He witnesseth and seeth, and He is the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing. Beware lest the affairs of men grieve thee.   BH00186

Convey the Cause of thy Lord with wisdom and utterance, then protect the servants from the arrows of those who have disbelieved in God, the Sovereign of existence. Be a servant of thy Lord's Cause and a guardian of the City of the Bayan, lest there enter it any immoral one who hath turned away from God, the Mighty, the Loving.   BH04021

Take ye the chalice of eternity from the fingers of holiness, then drink therefrom by the leave of your Lord, the Most High, the Most Exalted, and tarry not even for a moment... Cast away what ye possess and take what God hath graciously given you, then journey in the wilderness of His knowledge and tarry not even for a moment.   BH01876

Therefore, his honored descendants must shine forth like stars from the dawning-place of divine favors. Each one must strive and arise so that this effulgent light may grow brighter day by day, and the radiance and beams of this star of sanctity may become more evident and manifest, and his eternal glory more clear and apparent.  AB07640

Shed not blood, neither commit that which your hearts approve not, nor can reason accept. Purify your hearts from all earthly suggestions, that the revelation of your Lord, the All-Merciful, may be reflected therein. This is better for you than all that was and all that shall be. Read ye the verses of God at eventide and at dawn.   BH06769

According to the Command, all friends must hold fast to patience and perseverance and keep their gaze fixed upon the horizons of divine ordinances. God, exalted be His glory, alone will grant victory and suffice against the evil of the oppressors. The victory of the friends has been and is spiritual qualities and pure, holy deeds.  BH00114

It behooveth you to adorn yourselves with My attributes, that My qualities may be manifested through you among My servants. Thus have ye been commanded by One All-Knowing, All-Informed. Adorn yourselves with the ornament of trustworthiness among all people, that through it God's sanctification may be made manifest in all else.   BH06729

Beseech God that He may draw thee to such a station wherein the clamor of men and the oppression of those in the land shall not prevent thee from Him. Today the limbs of the world are trembling and the tribes of the earth are quaking and disturbed. The recompense of the unseemly deeds of various peoples hath encompassed them.  BH00129

if that oppressor showed cruelty, you show faithfulness; if he transgressed, you seek devotion. Extinguish the fire of that enmity with the water of love, and make patience and forbearance your shield against that sharp sword. As much as you can, show kindness and seek divine mercy, and demonstrate the utmost consideration and care   AB01979

Put forth a hand from thy sleeve and scatter the treasure of the spirit throughout the regions of the world. Put thy tongue and utterance to use in promoting the religion of God and exalting the Word of God, that thou mayyst, like a polished sword, conquer the realms and, like the morning breeze, bestow new life upon yearning hearts.  AB08776

O youth! God willing, through the bounties of the All-Merciful thou shalt be favored with His infinite divine outpourings. As thou hast been adorned in early youth with the recognition of the Dawning-Place of Revelation, beseech God that thou mayest be assisted in that which shall endure and remain permanent in the Book of the world.   BH06468

Under all conditions be engaged in offering praise and thanksgiving to God, exalted be His glory, and be humble and lowly before His loved ones. This Wronged One conveyeth His greetings and salutations to all the friends and counseleth them to that which is seemly. All must adorn themselves with divine attributes and spiritual qualities   BH08005

Hold fast to the hem of grandeur and cling to the sure handle and trust in God...Therefore strive for that which brings elevation and ascension in the Most Glorious Kingdom, that you may become a blazing star and a brilliant planet, a manifest sign and an unfurled banner, a radiation of manifest light and a splendor of the highest heaven.  AB02193

All the friends must, in the nights and days, beseech the Exalted Truth, glorified be His majesty, for the exaltation of the Cause, that perchance all may attain to the Cause of God and His religion. God willing, the waters of the world shall not prevent you from the Kawthar of God, and gold shall not make you heedless of the divine path.   BH01453

Hold fast to that which is the cause of exaltation and elevation and the means of raising up the Cause among the servants of God - glorified be His majesty. Whatsoever He has commanded has been and continues to be for the good of His servants. Every person of insight bears witness to what has been mentioned, and every hearing ear is aware.   BH10369

We have enjoined upon Our loved ones wisdom and utterance, the reformation of the world and the refinement of the souls of nations. Blessed is he who hath heard My call, and woe betide every froward denier. Thus have We lit the lamp of utterance in the niche of knowledge. Blessed is he who hath attained, and woe betide every heedless doubter.   BH00204

O divine friends! With heart and soul desire and seek confirmation from the All-Forgiving Lord, that each of you may become a brilliant star in the horizon of guidance, and a fruit-bearing tree in the Abha Paradise, and a bright lamp in the gathering of spiritual ones, and an ornament to the assembly in the gathering of the All-Merciful ones.   AB01133

Stand ye firm in the Cause of God in such wise that every wavering one may become steadfast and every mouldering bone may be set in motion. Strive ye that the darkness of contingent being may be illumined by the lights of the mention of the All-Merciful. God willing, may ye all arise to that which befits your stations and your relationship to God.   BH00796

We counsel Our loved ones with that whereby the Cause of God and His sovereignty may be exalted. Beware lest ye abandon that which ye have been commanded by God, the Mighty, the All-Loving. Say: Take ye what ye have been commanded and follow not those who have cast the laws of God behind their backs and followed every ignorant one who is rejected.   BH06279

O peoples of the earth! The Object of your desire hath appeared, and He, verily, is the One promised in the Scriptures of God, your Lord and the Lord of all worlds. Beware lest the ornaments of the world debar you from God, the Lord of all names. Cast them behind you, turning your faces toward the court of your Lord, the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing.  BH11623

O friends! Hold fast unto wisdom and unto that which God hath chosen. Act in accordance with that which draweth nigh the servants and causeth the dwellers of all lands to be attracted. This is the divine counsel whose light hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of grace. Blessed is he who hath witnessed and seen, and woe unto the heedless!   BH01366

O servants! Hearken unto the counsels of the Wronged One. The first of all things and of every mention hath been the knowledge of God. He is the Sustainer of all and the Educator of all. The first thing that proceedeth from knowledge is the love and unity of the servants, for through unity are the horizons of the world illumined and brightened.   BH01118

My hope is that you may, by the aid of God, be enabled to remove the veils from the eyes of the wayward and to cleanse the minds of the malevolent. Visit, on your way, Isfahan, Kashan, Tihran, and Khurasan. Proceed thence to Iraq, and there await the summons of your Lord, who will keep watch over you and will direct you to whatsoever is His will and desire.  BBU0005

We have forbidden all corruption, strife, contention and unseemly deeds, and have commanded that which God loveth. These matters are evident and clear to all. Nevertheless, the Name of God and His loved ones remain imprisoned in the prison of the oppressors. There hath befallen them that which hath caused the Supreme Paradise and the Most Exalted Heaven to weep.  BH00153

We have counseled all with that which profiteth them, without regard to that which profiteth Us. The hem of divine bounty is far more expansive and elevated than to be circumscribed by the doubts and imaginings of His servants. The purpose of His binding commandments and firm ordinances hath been and is the glory of His Cause and the exaltation of His loved ones.  BH11804

First--Truthfulness; no one should ever tell a lie! Second--Honesty in all their transactions. Third--Forbearance is necessary. Fourth--They must observe the utmost kindness, so that all may consider themselves servants of each other, and be truthful and honest to all mankind. Fifth--They must not disappoint anyone, but constantly endeavor to become more spiritual.  ABU2077

Under all conditions they must hold fast to the cord of wisdom. If a land is cultivated and achieves capacity, planting therein becomes necessary, and this is among those deeds which have been and are great in the sight of God. Otherwise, no. O my beloved! The cawing of the ignorant has prevented the people from the choice wine of the utterance of the Lord of Names.  BH00169

God willing, may they hold fast to that which was imparted to them face to face, and in all circumstances call the people to goodly conduct and the fear of God, that perchance through the grace of the Lord the characteristics of the self and satanic imaginings may be lifted away and spiritual qualities may become manifest from the mines of the hearts of the servants.  BH02073

Blessed is the soul whom the ornaments and colors of the world have not deprived of the ocean of divine knowledge. Blessed art thou for having held fast unto that which is praiseworthy, detached from every remote clamourer. However, We counsel the loved ones to perform good deeds and display praiseworthy conduct, and to observe that which God hath revealed in His Book.  BH01212

Rather, their thoughts must be centered on one purpose and their aim focused on a single goal: the diffusion of the divine fragrances, the exaltation of the Word of God, the chanting of the verses of God, and the wafting of the breeze of God. If this bounty is attained, all hopes will be fulfilled and realized; otherwise no endeavor will yield fruit or provide benefit.  AB08734

Look not unto your own own personal interests, but rather unto that which shall profit all mankind. Thus doth command you the Lord of Pre-existence. He, verily, is the Commander, the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing. We love to behold each one of you as the source of all good and the dawning-place of righteousness amidst all the worlds. Prefer your brethren before yourselves.  BH01184

In truth, steadfastness must be sought for the friends. This imperative divine Cause is, from one perspective, seen to be most easy, inasmuch as from the beginning that hath no beginning unto the end that hath no end, there hath not appeared, nor will there appear, treasures of utterance and knowledge like unto those that have been manifested in this Most Great Revelation.  BH00156

This question of the union of the white and the black is very important, for if it is not realized, ere long great difficulties will arise and harmful results will follow. Therefore, the believers and the maidservants of the Merciful must exercise the utmost endeavor to bring affiliation of hearts between the white and the black and seek the confirmation of the Holy Spirit.  AB11337

Associate amongst yourselves with love and affection, and be not of those who search into people's deeds to find fault with them. By My life! Such people are among the heedless. Do not pronounce as infidels those who have recognized God, and curse not those who recite the verses of God with humility. Thus does the Pen of your Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, counsel you.   BH06615

Remind thou the people of this Tablet and acquaint them with what God hath intended for them in the Book. We have sent down these verses unto thee that thou mayest recite them to those who have turned unto God, the Revealer of Books and the Manifestor of proof, that they may act upon what is contained therein and hold fast unto that which they have been commanded in the Tablets.   BH04634


O Ja'far! Make thy purpose the purpose of all mankind. Set aside all else, for this shall suffice thee, by the Lord of all worlds. If the purpose of thy heart be other than what hath been revealed in the Tablet, it shall be but scattered dust, by the Lord of the Exalted Throne. Fix thy heart upon the Most Great Purpose, for verily it is the Lote Tree beyond which there is no passing  BH01755

Be generous in prosperity, and thankful in adversity. Be worthy of the trust of thy neighbor, and look upon him with a bright and friendly face. Be a treasure to the poor, an admonisher to the rich, an answerer of the cry of the needy, a preserver of the sanctity of thy pledge. Be fair in thy judgment, and guarded in thy speech. Be unjust to no man, and show all meekness to all men.   BH03420

These exalted words were revealed in one of the Tablets addressed to one of the friends: Say: O My loved ones in My lands! Hearken unto the counsel of Him Who counseleth you for the sake of God. He verily created you and manifested for you that which exalteth you and profiteth you, and taught you His Straight Path and His Mighty Announcement. O Jalil! Counsel the servants to fear God.   BH00560

If you desire a goodly life, scatter the seeds of wisdom in pure and goodly soil, that each grain may grow for you into seven green and blessed ears of corn. If you intend to build in the realm of contingent being, raise a glorious edifice with firm pillars, its foundation fixed at the central attractive point in the lowest depth and its highest chambers in the supreme zenith of the ether.  AB00246

O handmaiden of God! Thy letter was received. The doors of the Kingdom are open and the bounty of God is like unto the spring rain. Although the signs of material bounty are abundant, yet the true bounty is that of heaven, which bestoweth life eternal. Follow this and thy heart shall become as beautiful as a garden, thine eyes illumined, thy spirit joyous and thy thoughts a solace to souls.  AB09722

your duty is that in the land of Ya [Yazd] with utmost detachment, attraction, enthusiasm, calmness and dignity you should associate and gather with the loved ones of God. And if you observe two people between whom there is any dust [of disagreement], through whatever means possible create harmony between them. Similarly, move with perfect wisdom and guide the loved ones to wisdom and tolerance  AB12127

And now, O seeker, it behooveth us firmly to cling unto the 'Urvatu'l-Vuthqa, that perchance we may leave behind the darksome night of error, and embrace the dawning light of divine guidance. Shall we not flee from the face of denial, and seek the sheltering shadow of certitude? Shall we not free ourselves from the horror of satanic gloom, and hasten towards the rising light of the heavenly Beauty?  BH00002

As much as you can, show kindness to all people and befriend every stranger. Be gentle with every sinner like an intimate friend and treat every heedless one kindly like one who is aware. Do not hurt any heart, even if it belongs to an oppressor or traitor. Do not sadden any soul, even if it repeatedly gives poison. Seek freedom for every injured one and give joy and gladness to every dejected one.  AB00669

O Feridun! Thy namesake did uproot the foundations of tyranny, and cleansed the realm of foes; he raised aloft the standard of Kavian, and laid the groundwork of justice. He nurtured the priests and exalted the peasants; he was a refuge to the helpless and a loving, compassionate friend to the distressed. Do thou likewise, according to thine own measure, follow the path of the righteous ones of old.  AB10942

Today everyone must follow God's command and nothing contrary to wisdom should proceed from him. In such case, should the manifestations of tyranny and wickedness arise to shed his blood, no harm shall come to pass, for it will have occurred in the path of God, and every soul shall taste of the cup of death. And if this inevitable decree occurs for the sake of God, it is surely better and more beloved.  BH03128

In truth, the days have been fulfilled, the years have passed, the times are straitened, the cup of life has been muddied. Then, hasten ye in these days, and with great humility illumine the globe of fervent entreaty with the lights of His unfailing guidance that God shall make of thee a resplendent and radiant sign on the horizon of His oneness, and a conspicuous banner on the mount of His singleness.   AB04583

Therefore, O thou who art firm in the Covenant, strive and make an effort and show determination so that thou mayest be among those who outstrip others in good deeds and become a manifestation of the gifts of the Lord of dazzling signs, becoming a bright star, and with the lights of humility, submissiveness, lowliness, supplication and detachment, make this transient world a mirror of the eternal realm.   AB03661

Be benevolent to all the people of the world. Uphold justice and equity among all the people. Be the sign of mercy and the dawning place of the compassion of The Ancient Beauty. Endeavor to reform and reconcile. Strive to acquire divine virtues and attributes, so that like unto the trees in the Garden of Mercy, ye may bear leaves and fruits and ye may be as generous as the abundant clouds of springtime.   AB00613

The Wronged One of 'Akka counseleth all to fear God and to that which exalteth the station of man. The true Law of God consisteth in such matters and deeds as are the cause and source of the manifestations of human stations. This is the good that hath been enjoined in all the Books of God, exalted be His glory, and whatsoever is contrary to this station is accounted as evil and must needs be shunned.  BH03435

From the beginning of your acceptance of the Faith in the days of God ye have arisen to serve the Cause of God and have trodden the path of faithfulness in the way of the Most Glorious Beauty. Ye have ever been occupied with teaching the Cause of God and have devoted yourselves to the promotion of the religion of God. In truth, ye deserve His grace and are the recipients of the favors of His Divine Unity.  AB09353

You must manifest complete love and affection toward all mankind. Do not exalt yourselves above others, but consider all as your equals, recognizing them as the servants of one God. Know that God is compassionate toward all; therefore, love all from the depths of your hearts, prefer all religionists before yourselves, be filled with love for every race, and be kind toward the people of all nationalities.   ABU1122

Praise be to the Lord of all being, Who hath forbidden His loved ones from corruption, conflict and contention, and kept them sanctified therefrom. Happy and blessed are they, for they have acted in accordance with that from which the Light of truthfulness and reformation hath shone forth resplendent. They have hearkened with their inner ears to divine counsels and have not permitted transgression thereof.   BH06011

O friends of God! If you desire the joy and gladness, the repose of spirit and peace of conscience of 'Abdu'l-Baha, add to your unity and concord. Be as the waves of one sea, the drops of one river, the flowers of one rose garden, and the links of one coat of mail. Soar in one atmosphere and sing in one melody and voice. This is the cause of eternal joy and the comfort of the heart in the everlasting world.  AB00037

O My loved ones in that land! We counsel you to observe justice and equity, trustworthiness and religiosity, chastity and faithfulness. Your Lord, the All-Merciful, is verily the Expositor, the Mighty, the Loving. He created you, sustained you, assisted you in His Cause, and acquainted you with that which remained hidden from most of the learned. He counseleth you with that which shall profit you in all His worlds.  BH06365

Through following the path and conduct of the stars of the Greater Guidance, transform Dowlatabad into Paradise-abad, and illuminate Iraq with the light of the Luminary of the Horizons. May you become the cause of comfort for your subjects and the source of the dawning of the light of guidance. May you serve the throne with perfect trustworthiness and sincerity, educate human souls, bestow spirituality upon hearts   AB06998

O Salman! Inform My servants not to spread corruption in the earth. Say: Hold fast to the cord of servitude, for through it God's Cause shall be made manifest, your influence shall be exalted among the servants, and the countenance of every sincere seeker shall be illumined. Then know, O Salman, that We desire from Our servants naught but that they speak with pure truthfulness and transgress not the bounds of justice.   BH00552

Be united in the love of God and the Manifestation of His Cause. Beware lest ye differ in aught. Thus have ye been commanded by One Who is the Mighty, the All-Wise. Remember God at all times, be not heedless of Him, and be not of the negligent. Verily, this Youth of God is among you, Who hath come to you with clear authority, Who forbiddeth you from tyranny and wickedness and commandeth you to righteousness and godliness.  BH00233

The divine friends must become entirely articulate and become the true dawn, and despite quietude give forth the gift of eloquence, meaning that with perfect dignity and composure they must awaken souls through their conduct and behavior. They must become the essence of sanctification and the sign of detachment. The lights of severance must shine from their faces and the signs of the Greater Guidance appear on their foreheads.  AB00504

You must show the utmost consideration and conduct yourselves in a way that brings them joy. In this wondrous Dispensation, all matters must be carried out with gentleness and love. If some matter causes distress and anxiety among the women, show consideration and convince them, dealing with them with love and kindness, lest certain individuals with personal motives find an opportunity - for a few lie in wait for such occasions.   AB03323

Praise be to God that in the great Temple of the Jews in San Francisco, proofs were produced to demonstrate the truth of Christ's divine Revelation, and all listened with great joy. No one objected. At the end of the speech, they expressed utmost gratitude. One said, "I am ashamed to be a Jew, and I shall not be one hereafter". Another Jew, when he met us on the street, said, "Truly this speech was a speech of Isaiah the prophet".  AB02234

O Muhammad! Verily thy Lord hath been with His loved ones and heareth their call in His remembrance and praise - He heareth and seeth, and He is the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing. We counsel thee and those who have believed with that which will exalt this mighty, wondrous Cause. Say: O people of God! Adorn your heads with the crowns of detachment and your temples with the raiment of chastity, trustworthiness, truthfulness and purity.  BH00268

O Rida! Strive that thou mayest attain unto that which beseemeth this divine Day, and act in accordance with that which its fragrance shall endure throughout the kingdom of earth and heaven. Strive that the temple of faith and certitude may remain protected from the darts of doubts cast by the heedless and the opposition of the suspicious ones. This is the station of the supreme steadfastness. Blessed are they who attain thereunto.  BH03024

I beseech God that each one may conduct herself according to the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, that she may be the essence of sanctity and become a sign of holiness - that is, the mercy of the Lord - and become detached from the world and all who dwell therein, and from both worlds be gathered at His threshold in complete humility, submissiveness, and self-effacement, that she may become a guardian at the Threshold of the Lord God.  AB11657

Now, with divine strength, heavenly power, celestial attraction, spiritual resolve, heartfelt glad-tidings, radiant vigor, an eloquent tongue, surpassing utterance, perfect remembrance, and comprehensive confirmations, return to the land of Ta and from there to the land of Kha. Gather all the loved ones of the land of Kha around the all-embracing Word, the brilliant gift, the manifest sign and the resplendent banner of the Book of God and the Religion of God   AB01648

Today the world is in turmoil and most of the peoples of the earth are veiled by the dust of doubt and suspicion. Beseech God to dispel with the Kawthar of utterance this dust that has darkened the world, and to illumine all through the light of justice. Verily He is the Mighty, the Powerful. We send greetings to the friends and counsel them with what is befitting. Say: Hold fast to wisdom, for it will benefit you in all conditions. Blessed is he who acts, and woe unto every heedless doubter.  BH06409

O people! Have mercy upon yourselves and upon the Soul of God that standeth over all things. If ye believe not, oppose Him not. Beware, O people! Fear ye God in His Cause, and cut not off the wafting of the breezes of grace from the right hand of glory and praise. Purify your ears that ye may hear what proceedeth from the mouth of God, your Lord, that perchance the breathings of the Spirit may transform you and draw you nigh unto the station of God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Witnessed.   BH01442

O friends of the Friend, come to yourselves! O lovers of the Beloved, become conscious! O seekers of Truth, detach yourselves! O hearers of the Word of truth, open the ear of reality and the eye of insight! Let not this transient wealth prevent you from standing in the holy presence of the Beloved, nor this outward glory become a veil in the path of Truth. Open the eye of righteousness and the vision of uprightness, and bring the ear of fairness into the presence of Truth. Neglect not even for a moment.  BH00648

He does not fretter away his time in idle pastimes and unprofitable pursuits. There is an Arabic proverb which says: 'A dancer starts his performance by the slow motion of his shoulders, then little by little brings into poetic vibrations all the rest of his body.' Similarly a young man desiring to lay a good foundation for his later life must devote his first few years to the study of his chosen profession and forget all pleasures and sports which divert him from accomplishing his main purpose. This is success and prosperity.  ABU2391

Today is the Day to render victorious the Cause of God. It is incumbent upon every soul to summon the people to the divine realm with the utmost steadfastness. Make ye a mighty effort, so that perchance those who have strayed in the wilderness of self and passion may turn their faces toward the most holy and glorious horizon. From souls will come forth effects that are and ever shall be cherished, for the fruit of every soul is its effect. A soul without effect is, in the Most Sublime Vision, accounted as a tree without fruit.  BH00112

Verily she who did what she did erred and disobeyed her Lord and committed a grievous transgression. Thou shouldst not object to her - leave her to herself. Verily thy Lord is the Ruler over what He willeth. Such matters from the beginning should be conducted with kindness. This is what God hath decreed in His Gracious Book. And if you were not pleased with her actions, no blame attacheth to you. As for the loss caused by the child, leave it to God, exalted be His glory, and be mindful of the wisdom mentioned in the Books and Tablets.  BH07283

We counsel all to observe trustworthiness, chastity, sincerity and faithfulness. We beseech God to aid them all to perform good deeds and eschew evil, and likewise to adorn them with the ornament of unity. The world is illumined through unity and concord, and laid waste through discord and dissension. O friends! Know ye the value of these days and with utmost love, fellowship and wisdom, remind the servants, that perchance they may turn to the supreme horizon through the fragrances of utterance and hold fast unto the divine commandments.  BH00187

Choose ye nothing for yourselves except what ye desire for God, the Lord of the worlds. Do no deed except with sincerity for God, the Lord of the worlds. Listen to no word except that ye listen through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Look at nothing except that ye look through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Bear witness to nothing except that ye bear witness through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Speak not except through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Preserve nothing except through God for God, the Lord of the worlds.  BB00004

Counsel all the friends to patience, calm and dignity, and say: O friends of God in the earth! Ye are honored in all the divine worlds through the name of the True One, but in this transient world which will end more quickly than aught else, ye have been afflicted with abasement. In the path of the one true God ye have heard taunts and witnessed tribulation, ye have been imprisoned and have laid down your lives, but because of the tyranny of a few heedless ones, ye must not transgress the bounds of God -- that is, ye must not molest any soul.  BH01089

In the gathering of hearts you occupy the seat of highest respect, and in reality of souls you deserve complete honor. You are the descendant of that illustrious one and the fruit of that supreme paradise garden. Therefore we are expectant and hopeful, watchful and in intense anticipation that this delicate branch, like its noble root, will become fruitful with the utmost freshness and grace, and will gain verdancy and vitality from the life-giving breezes, and will become the ornament and adornament of the divine garden and yield perpetual fruit.   AB04524

One must exercise care in all matters and, after their manifestation, hold fast to consultation in deeds. Verily our Lord is the Ever-Present, the All-Seeing, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. The friends must hold fast to consultation, and cleave to such means as will draw the hearts of God's servants nearer. By wisdom is meant such deeds and character as attract souls and draw them to the Most Great Ocean - not actions that cause estrangement, hatred and enmity. The friends must surely not be content to appear lowly and insignificant in the eyes of others.  BH02969

This is a Day wherein the Remembrance calleth aloud with the most exalted call, summoning all unto the All-Knowing, the One. Grieve thou not over anything, but rejoice in the Book of thy Lord. Verily, He is with His accepted servants. We have aided thee and taught thee that which the learned and mystics of the earth know not, save whom God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, willeth. Be thou steadfast in the Cause and firm in the remembrance of thy Lord in such wise that the allusions of the wayward, who have cast the command of God behind their backs and followed every rebellious devil, shall not veil thee.   BH00274

Today the courageous one, like a ray of light, becomes the cause of illumination of regions and localities, and the enlightenment of the world and radiance of creation lie in peace and reconciliation, and success and prosperity. As much as you can, be a cultivator of peace and a fruitful and productive tree. Therefore, seek the wellbeing of all the people of the world and the comfort and security of humanity. Lay the foundation of love and faithfulness and uproot the edifice of discord and cruelty. Practice friendship and truthfulness and seek peace and reconciliation. Be kind to all creation and solicitous of friends.   AB02729

Be ye, O people, God's trustees in His earth, and be not of them that betray their trust. Beware lest ye act treacherously toward anyone, for treachery is not befitting the True One. Deal not with anything save by God's leave. Consume not the substance of others wrongfully, but observe God's balance and His justice, and be not of the oppressors. Be ye so faithful that should anyone entrust to your keeping all the treasures of the earth and whatsoever is therein, ye would not turn toward them nor incline your gaze in their direction, nor stretch forth your hands toward them. Hold ye fast unto the cord of God and His grace, then unto His might and His grandeur.  BH02557

Therefore 'Abdu'l-Baha hopes that the assistance and protection of the Kingdom of Mysteries will continue and persist. And so it shall be, but conditional upon your being absolutely good and seeking God's good pleasure; becoming a divine mercy to the world of humanity; attaining endless life in this mortal world; becoming firm and steadfast; remaining constant in service to the known Person; becoming a zealous well-wisher and a cause of awakening and remembrance to the proud; constantly striving to improve the conditions of ruler and subject; serving the unity of the human world; being a guardian, protector, submissive and obedient to the throne of sovereignty; and guaranteeing the physical and spiritual happiness and comfort of the nation.  AB02806

Hearken thou unto My counsel, and unto that which the Tongue of God doth utter in this wondrous Age. Beware lest anything deter thee or any matter hinder thee. Strive within thyself, then endeavor in thine essence, that thou mayest be numbered among the righteous in this Cause, whereby the people of the realms of mystical insight are terrified, and the dwellers of the pavilions of certitude are dismayed, and the spirits of them that are nigh unto God are thunderstruck, and the mountain of the arrogant is crushed. Purify thine eyes from all else save Him, then abandon all that is in thy hands, then sanctify thyself from all who are in the earth and the heavens, that thou mayest be enabled to stand firm in the Cause whereat the feet of the sincere ones slip. Then detach thyself from thine own self and from all else besides, and from the souls of the polytheists.   BH00248

Take heed. Dispute not in the Cause of God and cast not away the ordinances of God which have been revealed in the Bayan from the Almighty, the Generous One. Gather in love and reconcile the discords that arise amongst you. Be as one soul seated upon the exalted seat of truth. Beware lest ye transgress and overstep the bounds which the Almighty hath fixed and be counted amongst the mischief-makers. If there are poor amidst you, expend on him from that which God hath bestowed upon you and deprive not others from that which you possess. And if you find a suffering soul, treat him with mercy and befriend him with forbearance, and if you encounter a soul of weak faith, remonstrate him not and exhort him with kindness and with a sweet and gentle tongue so that he may recognize the Faith of God in his inmost heart and comprehend that which he was bidden by the All-knowing, the All-Wise.   BH01394
