
The sophists hold that all existence is illusory, indeed, that each and every being is an absolute illusion that has no existence whatsoever--in other words, that the existence of created things is like a mirage, or like the reflection of an image in water or in a mirror, which is merely an appearance devoid of any basis, foundation or ascertainable reality. This notion is false, for although the existence of things is an illusion compared to the existence of God, yet in the contingent world it is established, proven, and undeniable. For example, the existence of the mineral is non-existence compared to that of man--since man's body becomes mineral when he physically dies--but the mineral indeed exists within the mineral realm. It is therefore clear that dust is non-existent or has an illusory existence compared to that of man, but that within the mineral realm it exists.  In like manner, the existence of created things is sheer illusion and utter non-existence compared to that of God and consists in a mere appearance, like an image seen in a mirror. But although this image is an illusion, its source and reality is the person reflected, whose image has appeared in the mirror. Briefly, the reflection is an illusion compared to that which is reflected. It is therefore evident that although created things have no existence compared to that of God, being instead like a mirage or an image reflected in a mirror, yet in their own degree they exist. AB02618

In like manner, the existence of created things is sheer illusion and utter non-existence compared to that of God and consists in a mere appearance, like an image seen in a mirror. But although this image is an illusion, its source and reality is the person reflected, whose image has appeared in the mirror. Briefly, the reflection is an illusion compared to that which is reflected.  AB02618

Neither does existence become nonexistent, nor does absolute nothingness come into existence.   ABU2254

The contingent nature of the world lieth in its being preceded by a cause, while absolute pre-existence hath ever been and will continue to be the exclusive attribute of God, glorified be His mention.  BH00048

In this world of nonexistence, in which existence is only an appearance, strive to obtain real existence   AB06811

He brought us into being from nothingness, bestowed the spirit of existence upon us when we were utter void  AB04727

In what condition is the soul before entering the body? In a state of potentiality, possessing no consciousness as we understand it.  ABU3604

The world of existence is like an ocean and these determined beings are its waves. Although they have existence and visibility, they are considered non-existent and lost, except for the sacred realities of divine souls. Although they too are determined beings, yet being illumined from the praised station and assisted from the extended shadow, they attain eternal realization in the world of existence and find everlasting determination. This is the meaning of "All things perish save His face."  AB01156

So this flower, this hyacinth, was for a time coming from non-existence into existence and is now passing from existence into non-existence.   AB01145

When the particles of a given composition are disintegrated this may be called non-existence, but the original simple atoms will go back to their primary elements and are ever existent.   ABU0591

As to life, however, it has had no beginning nor will it have any end. The eternal grace of God has always been the cause of life. It has had no starting point and it will not approach any end.  AB01223

Were the souls created as individuals before they entered the physical bodies of this world?" Abdu'l-Baha: "They existed before coming to this world, but not as we know personality upon this planet."  ABU3556

Thou didst bring me forth from utter and absolute nothingness into the realm of being and existence, and honored me with the glory of beholding Thy presence--the highest aspiration of all Thy Prophets and chosen ones.  BH11652

One can bring nothing forth from nothing, in the same way that which exists is never destroyed; the apparent annihilation is merely transmutation. A mineral compared to us may be said to be non-existent, but in its own sphere it lives.  ABU0766

Since thou art a servant of the Eternal and a seeker of the Face of God and fleeing from extinction, follow not the setting star and seek not that which vanisheth. Seek thou that which is eternal, everlasting and sempiternal, and that which is perpetual, endless, and without peer or likeness  AB06301

But the realities and spirits which are separate from matter are inviolable and impregnable, for the fundamental powers are eternal. It is through the transformation of bodies and material forms that the manifestation of spirit is diversified. It is not possible for spirit itself to become annihilated.  ABU2233

"Let us say to ourselves that, if space was limited and time - without any eternity - would come to an end at some time, there would have to be a 'nothing'. But 'nothing' is totally unimaginable, totally impossible to our human spirit. A 'nothing' would always have to become a 'something' for our reason."  ABU1069

For verily I and all else, as encompassed by Thy knowledge, are but utter nothingness in the depths of contingency and the seas of creation, and absolute poverty that hath perished. How then can one whose limit is that of non-existence and evanescence describe the Sovereign of pre-existence and invisibility?   BB00197

All that comes within one's imagination as well as all that appearance in external reality whether potential or actual existence all are in truth absolute non entities, they are nothing itself except that which is to be related to the Ancient Beauty or which can be attributed to His Holiness our Merciful Lord.  AB07492

There is no difference in the ruling between existences and essences, as claimed by the philosophers who say existence is pure good from God with no choice for the servants, and essence has no existence except through mental considerations and imaginal conditions - for this is polytheism in the school of the Immaculate Ones, peace be upon them.  BB00366

In this mortal dust-heap, every nostril that becomes perfumed with the breaths of the All-Merciful hath received a portion from the realm of pre-existence and gained a share from the divine Kingdom of everlasting being. Otherwise, alas for us! Woe betide us! All moments would be fruitless, foundations scattered to the winds, and manifest loss would appear.  AB09700

The second consideration is that existence and non-existence are both relative. If it be said that a certain thing was brought forth from non-existence, the intent is not absolute non-existence; rather it is meant that the former condition was non-existence in relation to the present one. For absolute non-existence cannot become existence, as it lacks the very capacity to exist.  AB00839

If the reality and essence are other than existence and not identical with existence, then existence can be separated from it because it is derived from other or because it is other than the essence... Every existent whose existence is derived from another, or whose existence is other than its essence and whose essence is other than its existence, can be separated from existence. But existence itself cannot be conceived as separate from itself   AB00814

Consider its likeness in luminous objects: observe the body of the moon when it is brilliant, luminous and gleaming - it has merely acquired and derived light from the sun, which is not inseparable from it and may become detached from it. This is the station of contingent existence and its condition of temporal origination in the world of being, for the quiddity is other than the existence and the existence other than the quiddity, and detachment between them is possible.  AB00013


