
every soul has a beginning, but, once created is immortal  ABU3611

Moral life consists in the government of one's self. Immortality is government of a human soul by the Divine Will.  ABU3529

Christ and all the Prophets have taught in their Holy Books the immortality of the soul.  Jesus during His life had so many afflictions and no happiness or comfort and in the end He was crucified. If there were no immortality to follow, then nothing could be more useless than such a life.   ABU0495

Q. Is a soul ever annihilated?   A.  No. It will be placed in different conditions by God's Mercy, and will eventually progress.   ABU3579

"Verily, he who hath quaffed the choice wine of his Lord's love, death shall not overtake him."   BH04075

I swear by the Ancient Beauty that if a soul becomes purified and sanctified from this world even once and ascends to the Supreme Companion, he will never see extinction but will attain unto existence within existence, and annihilation and extinction shall never find their way to this existence and subsistence.  BH00811 

Therefore, consider from the highest point of existence to the lowest point of existence which is dust itself and look at all beings, all tribes, all nations, all peoples - all are facing finality except those loved ones who have hastened to the city of divine providence, those poor ones who have sought refuge in the precincts of absolute wealth, those ailing ones who have come to the divine infirmary. These souls are like brilliant stars in all the grades of existence; they will shine from the everlasting horizon as luminous as a full moon, even in the material world.  AB03266

I arrived safely from London to Paris, but regrettably circumstances prevented frequent meetings, as the intention was for us to discuss matters of divine philosophy including the immortality of the soul and converse about the reality of other divine questions. During our meeting you mentioned that the question of the soul's immortality is among the most complex issues, and discussion of this was desired and postponed to a later meeting. But the friend hastened to another land and the meeting did not take place. However, there is firm hope that perhaps we will become companions in the East.  AB00879

Verily, this is no other than an eternal and everlasting life which hath no end in the world of existence.  AB09006

As a bodily change does not bring about change in the soul, it is evident that the soul is unchanging and imperishable.   ABU2979

Though death destroy his body, it has no power over his spirit -- this is eternal, everlasting, both birthless and deathless.  ABU0626

Eternal life is characteristic of the human soul. The sacred souls are in the utmost harmony and joy with one another in the world of eternity.  AB01884

The spirit being composed of no elements, being already an abstract entity, shall live forever. It is not subject to change and transmutation.   ABU1776

In the Gospel (St. Luke 12:4) it is said: "Be not afraid of them that kill the body and after that have no more that they can do. But I will tell you whom ye shall fear. Fear him which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I may unto you, fear him."  'Abdu'l-Baha said that this means that the death of the body is of no importance and not in the least to be feared, because a spiritual soul lives forever.  ABU2603

Even the most developed dog has not the immortal soul of the man; yet the dog is perfect in its own place. You do not quarrel with a rose-tree because it cannot sing!   ABU0975

Man must lay the foundation of such a palace which may stand the encroachments of time, which day unto day may become newer and its imperial pinnacles may reach to the height of heaven.  ABU2613

The soul is by no means composed of elements, it is therefore not subject to disintegration. Every composed being shall become decomposed, but since the soul is not composed, it can never perish.  ABU0205

All realities and souls are immortal, even the souls of unbelievers and defective souls, but in relation to the souls of the holy ones and sanctified souls, the former have no importance and significance.  ABU3296

The important thing in life, however, is the spirit of man. The spirit is immortal; the spirit goes to the Kingdom of God; it receives eternal illumination. But this physical body must return to dust even if it is preserved for a 100,000 years.   ABU2001

So, to say that this animal man, should pass a few days here in sorrow, pain and grief, and then end, is nonsense. That this tree should end in bitter fruit- could anything be more useless? So we must conclude that it must have a greater ending.  ABU1868

Thus, when he ascended unto the horizon of glory, he perceived the reality of existence and immortality in his own being, for the senses in this world in comparison to perceptions in that world are even as the reflection of the sun in a sea of water.  AB06812

If a man leaves this world his friends cannot go with him under the ground; they go only to the grave and return. But God is everywhere with him. He will not leave man, either over or under the earth.  ABU0784

human spirits - they never perish but endure. However, the spirits of godly souls attain eternal life, meaning they reach the highest degrees of perfection, while the spirits of heedless souls, though they endure, remain in the realm of imperfection, veiling and ignorance   AB01398

But the realities and spirits which are separate from matter are inviolable and impregnable, for the fundamental powers are eternal. It is through the transformation of bodies and material forms that the manifestation of spirit is diversified. It is not possible for spirit itself to become annihilated.  ABU2233

You will retain your individuality and will not be swallowed up in one vast spirit. The essence of the human soul is clarified from material substances and purified from the embodiment of physical things. It is exclusively luminous; it has no body; it is a dazzling pencil of light; it is a celestial orb of brightness.   ABU3067

They are not at all annihilated. They are immortal. But the spirits of heavenly souls will find eternal life, that is, they will attain to the highest and most great stations of perfection. But the spirits of the heedless souls although they are immortal yet they are in a world of imperfection, concealment and ignorance.  AB07154

It has immortal life, which nothing can destroy or pervert. If all the kingdoms of life arise against the immortal spirit of man and seek its destruction, this immortal spirit, singly and alone, can withstand their attacks in fearless firmness and resolution because it is indestructible and empowered with supreme natural virtues.   ABU0825

If an elementary substance is possessed of immortality, how can the human spirit or reality, which is wholly above combination and composition, be destroyed? Nay, rather, that spirit, which is all in all, is a unit and not a compound. Its destruction, therefore, is not possible. The spirit of man transcends the qualities and attributes of any natural element.   ABU0004

Human-kind have come to the world in innumerable numbers, and passed away; their physical bodies and that which belonged to them passed away with them. Their health and disease both passed away. Their rest and hardship both vanished. Their wealth and poverty ended. Their honor and misery terminated. But the reality of man is immortal. The spirit of man is everlasting.  ABU1893

Know thou that at the time of its translation it ascends and ascends until it reaches the presence of God, clothed in a temple (body) which will not become subject to the changes wrought by ages and cycles, nor by the contingencies of the world, nor the emanations thereof. It will continue to exist through the eternality of the Kingdom of God -- its sovereignty, its dominion, its potency.  ABU0185


"See, Sir, gradually one light after the other is extinguished down there, in the way the sun disappears on the horizon in the evenings. The light goes out, the sun went down, just as a human life becomes extinguished and disappears from the circle of the living, but in reality the light will be lit again tomorrow evening and the sun does not go down, it has only disappeared from our earthly eyes, but it continues perpetually to shine - and thus it must be with our soul, our spirit - after earthly death it continues to shine in another, better world."  ABU1069

To hold that the spirit is annihilated upon the death of the body is to imagine that a bird imprisoned in a cage would perish if the cage were to be broken, though the bird has nothing to fear from the breaking of the cage. This body is even as the cage and the spirit is like the bird: We observe that this bird, unencumbered by its cage, soars freely in the world of sleep. Therefore, should the cage be broken the bird would not only continue to exist but its senses would be heightened, its perception would be expanded and its joy would grow more intense.   AB00228

This very independence from the body indicates that the spirit need not perish with the decomposition of the body. The effects of the spirit remain and are manifest in the world. How can there be an effect without an effecter? Existence is necessary for effects to be manifest from it. If we consider carefully, nothing becomes absolutely non-existent; at most its form changes. The vicissitudes and accidents that befall the body have no effect upon the spirit, whether from illness, fatigue, stoutness and obesity, or thinness and privation. No accident that befalls the body has any effect upon the spirit, therefore the decomposition of this body has no effect upon it either.   ABU0551

And whereas this matter is clear and evident, it is strange that some souls imagine that the human spirit becomes non-existent, while the human body, which is composed of elements, endures. How can it be that the pure human spirit becomes non-existent? The purpose of this exposition is to make clear and proclaim the unity of the world of existence, that all created things are but all created things. Every atom possesses the perfections of all atoms. If this be true of the body, which is subject to contingencies—that is, one day it is composed and another day decomposed—yet it endures; how much more so the human spirit, which is sanctified from composition and decomposition? It remains in one condition, undergoes no change or alteration, is a pure existence having no composition, and therefore no decomposition.  ABU0151
