
"Justice hath ever been and shall ever be beloved in every station."  BH02751

The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice [insaf]; turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me, and neglect it not that I may confide in thee. By its aid thou shalt see with thine own eyes and not through the eyes of others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge and not through the knowledge of thy neighbor.  BH00386


you must treat her according to divine decree with kindness and justice   AB01301

The breezes of revelation have perfumed the world of justice and fairness   BH03761

O Lord! Assist His Excellency the Governor to execute Thy commandments with justice and fairness  BH10577

Blessed is he who speaketh with justice and fairness, not according to the promptings of his desires.  BH06836

Rather, they should follow the path of justice and fairness. Let them investigate with their own eyes.  AB00455

We beseech God to open before thy face the gate of justice and adorn thee with the ornament of fairness   BH02303

Blessed are they that act, blessed are they that are fair-minded, and blessed are they that are steadfast  BH04700

Beseech ye God that He may adorn all with the ornament of fairness and guide them with the light of justice.   BH04661

Share thou this among thy brothers, and in this sharing be praiseworthy and just, and be not an rejected oppressor.  BH09471

Say: O heedless ones! By what proof and evidence did ye acknowledge the Bayan? Depart not from justice and equity.   BH04435

Be ye dawning-places of justice and equity and daysprings of loving-kindness and bounty unto all who are on earth.   BH02778

We beseech God to bestow the pure wine of fairness, that perchance it may open an eye and enable it to recognize Him.  BH07551

Say to the loved ones of God that the first quality of human nature is fairness, and all matters depend upon it.   BH00718

Then adorn thy body with the raiment of equity, which is among the garments of the All-Merciful between His near servants   BH07021

Beware lest desire deprive you of equity or prejudice cause you to rise up against God, the Protector, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH05508

We beseech God to adorn them with the ornament of justice and fairness that they may recognize this Day and what hath appeared therein.   BH10461

We beseech God to adorn His servants with the ornament of justice and fairness, that they may see with their own eyes and hear with their own ears.   BH08621

I hope you will always avoid tyranny and oppression, and that you will always uphold and practice justice towards all men and keep your hearts pure.  ABU2032

Blessed is he who hath cast tyranny behind him, holding fast to My manifest justice, and blessed is he who hath cast oppression behind him, holding fast to fairness   BH04809

Likewise, from the Dawning-place of the utterance of the All-Merciful, say to the loved ones of God that the first quality of humanity is fairness, and all matters depend upon it.   BH00445

The heaven of divine wisdom is illumined with the two luminaries of consultation and compassion, and the canopy of world order is upheld by the two pillars of reward and punishment.  BH02558

Deal with one another with the utmost justice and equity. Transform treachery into trustworthiness, backbiting into self-purification, tyranny into justice, and heedlessness into remembrance.  BH00647

To attain to true glory and honour, man should exercise justice and equity, forbear to act in an oppressive manner, render service to his government, and work for the good of his fellow-citizens.  AB06831

The essence of all that We have revealed for thee is justice [insaf], is for man to free himself from idle fancy and imitation, discern with the eye of oneness His glorious handiwork, and look into all things with a searching eye.  BH02183

The friends of God must be adorned with the ornament of justice, equity, kindness and love. As they do not allow the infliction of tyranny and oppression upon themselves, they must not allow it upon the handmaidens of God.  BH00086

Be calm and self-dependent in your relations with your fellowmen, and deal with them in fairness and justice. Turn treachery to trust, slander to brotherly counsel, oppression to justice, heedlessness to the remembrance of God.  BH02503


It is established by this proof that gratitude is befitting the friends of God, glorified be His majesty - those souls who hold fast to justice and are adorned with fairness. They are the trustees of the earth and its people amongst the servants.   BH01731

It is hoped that in gratitude for this divine confirmation, the foundation of justice will be established and the edifice of oppression will fall, the hands of the oppressors will be shortened and signs of justice and fairness will become manifest and clear   AB00817

During nights and days We have commanded the peoples of the world to observe justice, fairness, trustworthiness and piety, and counseled them thereto, yet most have preferred passion over guidance, and transgression and vice over righteousness and fear of God.  BH01857


O people of the world! The fruit of the human tree is justice and fairness. If it be devoid of this fruit, it is worthy of the fire. Pride hath blinded their eyes and their insight. The world is in need of two things: order and justice. Verily, kingdoms have need of a system to protect them and justice to cultivate them.  BH00558
