"Verily Fatima was the best woman in the world, except that woman which was born of Mary."   ABU1364

Some of the Prophets had special poets, just as Hassan was the poet of the Messenger of God. ABU3465

Salman, the Persian, the well-known disciple of Mohamad...Ali, the son-in-law of the prophet  ABU0165

Ja'far ibn Muhammad, Thy Proof and son of Thy Proof, whom Thou hast made a sign of the sovereignty of Thy oneness   BB00427

Say what Ali (meaning the Commander of the Faithful) hath said: His signs are His proof, and His existence His affirmation.  BB00268

Muhammad (peace be upon him) is Thy servant and Messenger whom Thou didst send as a bearer of glad-tidings to all the worlds   BB00413

Abu Dharr was but a shepherd, and Bilal a household slave. 'Ammar was a bearer of burdens, and Salman a barber and bath attendant.   AB04823

Verily, the One Whom God hath made to return - their names with God were none other than Muhammad and Ali and Fatima, then Hasan and Husayn.  BB00004

Salman the Persian was apparently a foreigner, an alien. 'Abu Lahab, though, was from the Quraysh tribe itself, of the same household and well acquainted.  AB09478

Once Imam Hasan and Imam Husayn both became ill. Their parents, His Holiness Imam 'Ali and His wife Fatimih, vowed to fast when their children recovered.   ABU2038

O Lord! Send Thy blessings upon the Lord of Yathrib and Batha, and upon His family and companions who were not prevented by anything whatsoever from helping Thy Cause   BH02216

When he came before the Prophet, who asked what had happened, he submitted, "In the Qur'an, God has said 'Do not cast yourselves into destruction with your own hands.'"   ABU0884

He [Baha'u'llah] described how as a young boy he witnessed the Mystery Play of Ali's Betrayal and Passion, and how it affected him so deeply that he wept and could not sleep for many nights.  ABU3551

Peace from God be upon Muhammad, 'Ali, Fatimih, Hasan, Husayn, 'Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, 'Ali, Muhammad, 'Ali, Hasan, and the Expected Proof - God's blessings be upon them all.  BB00077

Although Uvays was a camel-driver, through faith and certitude on the Day of Manifestation he attained such a station that after 1300 years his lineage is distinguished and honored  AB01177

and upon his family and companions who aided the Faith, holding fast to God's mighty cord, and through them the text of the world was adorned with the beauty of commandments and laws  BH02249

And I testify that Ali, Fatima, Hassan, Hussein, Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, Ali, Muhammad, Ali, Hassan and Muhammad (God's blessings be upon them) are Thy friends in every condition   BB00413

And I bear witness to Muhammad, may God's blessings be upon him and his family, and to Ali, Fatima, Hassan, Hussein, Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, Ali, Muhammad, Ali, Hassan and Muhammad   BB00120

One like unto the loathsome Yazid was thirsty for the blood of the birds of the rose garden of unity; and another like unto the vile Walid was intent upon slaughtering the flock of God.   AB00773

I bear witness to Muhammad and his successors-Thy blessings be upon them all-according to what Thou hast ordained for them in the knowledge of the unseen, whereof none besides Thee can comprehend.  BB00521

Abu-Dhar-i-Ghaffari was a shepherd who wept and lamented greatly, yet he found the light of guidance and hastened to the extended shade of His Holiness the Messenger - may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him.  AB07955

And God hath made the pilgrims to Husayn a caravan unto the Sacred Precinct... These are they who journey in the Mother Book through the mention of the Mystery around the Fire, with truth upon truth, inscribed.  BB00002

Then for Ali, the true and beloved Imam, then for Fatima, a leaf from the First Tree - thus shall you be gathered together - then for Hasan and Husayn, whom God made Imams from His presence over all the worlds.  BB00268

Muhammad and 'Ali and Fatimih and Hasan and Husayn and 'Ali and Muhammad and Ja'far and Musa and 'Ali and Muhammad and 'Ali and Hasan and Thy Proof, He Who standeth in Thy place and conveyeth Thy message unto Thy servants   BB00209

And if ye deny God after He hath sent down unto you the Remembrance and this Most Great Book, ye shall be inscribed as followers of the tree of Satan in the Book of the Prison, having shown arrogance against God, the Truth.  BB00002

I saw the Most Bountiful One, Muhammad, come out from the mausoleum adorned in the most beautiful form, such that I am unable to describe His beauty. As soon as I recognized Him through the inspiration of God, I greeted Him.  BB00578

I bear witness to Muhammad and Ali and Fatima and Hasan and Husayn and Ali and Muhammad and Ja'far and Musa and Ali and Muhammad and Ali and Hasan and Muhammad, the Master of the Command and the Successor, peace be upon them  BB00493

And I bear witness that their names in God's Book are Ali, Hasan, Husayn, Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, Ali, Muhammad, Ali, Hasan and Muhammad. And I bear witness that Fatima, daughter of God's Messenger, is a leaf of the White Tree   BB00128

And I bear witness to Muhammad, Ali, Fatima, Hassan, Hussein, Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, Ali, Muhammad, Ali, Hassan, and Muhammad - Thy blessings be upon them all - the Guardians of the Faith and the Pillars of the people of certitude   BB00467

During the Dispensation of Mohammed, there lived two poets in Mecca. One composed a great eulogy praising Mohammed; the other wrote a satire. When the two poems were presented to him, he highly praised both, and commended the endeavors of each.  ABU2666

Fatimih, of whom Muhammad had said she is a part of Me, and whoso harmeth her hath harmed Me, mourned disconsolate in her abode until she perished; and the brazen 'Ayishih hastened to battle that unsullied soul with a brutal and bloodthirsty host.  AB00005

When Mohamad was living one day his son-in-law Ali, his wife and his two sons kept fast... When Mohamad heard the self-sacrifice of his son-in-law, his daughter and his two grand-children he sent them special food and asked them to eat themselves.   ABU1566

Apostle of God seized 'Ali's sash and, raising him up, said: O people! Whoever hath Me as his Lord, let this 'Ali be his Lord. O God! Succour them that succour him, oppose them that oppose him, assist them that assist him and abase them that abase him.  AB08296

Behold the Imams of Guidance - all of them are brilliant stars shining in the supreme horizon, yet the Prince of Martyrs is like the sun of dawn blazing in the Most Glorious Horizon. This is a gift with which God has distinguished him among all humanity.  AB07810

This dragon means Beni Omeyyeh who had seven wicked heads of their kings; for the chiefs of the cruel and mighty kings of Beni Omeyyeh were seven and their names run as follows: Yeyid, Marwan, Abdel-Malak, Walid, Second Yeyid, Herksham, and their Chief.   AB01034

The Eternal Morn is Ali, the Eternal Sun is Muhammad, and from His indication to the two Husayns, and shone refers to the Imams, and the Light to Fatima, the temples of Unity are the Prophets and Successors, and its traces are his station and the station of the Shia.  BB00151

I beseech Thee by their right upon Thee and Thy right upon them to bless them according to Thy station of Glory, Unity, Majesty and Greatness, and according to what they deserve before the court of Thy grandeur - the rightly-guided Imams: Ali, Muhammad, then Ali, and Hassan.   BB00062

For instance, consider the role of 'Umar ibn Sa'd ibn Waqqas. He was the son of Sa'd ibn Waqqas who conquered the whole of Iran with his sword. Or Sannan ibn Ans ibn Malik who ranked among the closest companions of the Prophet. How grievously they erred by listening to hearsay.   ABU0917

And I bear witness to the successors of Thy Beloved Muhammad, may Thy blessings be upon him and his family, as Thou lovest and willest concerning them. And I bear witness that their names with Thee are 'Ali, Hasan, Husayn, 'Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, 'Ali, Muhammad, 'Ali, Hasan, and Muhammad.   BB00138

I testify that Ali, Fatima, Hasan, Husayn, Ali son of Husayn, Muhammad son of Ali, Jafar son of Muhammad, Musa son of Jafar, Ali son of Musa, Muhammad son of Ali, Ali son of Muhammad, Hasan son of Ali, and Muhammad son of Hasan - these are Thy proofs unto all who dwell in the kingdom of Thy earth and heaven.  BB00011

Therefore it was ordained, indeed established, by the will of the Lord of Destiny in the cycle of the Master of Humanity that there should be twelve Imams of Truth. They are the brilliant stars, the radiant moons, the shining lamps, and the lofty constellations in the heaven of lights and the sphere of mysteries.  AB02020

According to the holy tradition 'Who hath seen Me in a dream, he indeed hath beheld the truth', to see the blessed perfection, our Lord the Prophet (pbuh) in a dream, there is no doubt that it is a real vision and true dream that hath come to pass. To behold our Lord indicateth attainment of gladness, bounty and blessings.  AB00451

I beseech Thee, O my God, at this moment to bless Muhammad and the family of Muhammad, through all that pertaineth unto Thee, O my God, of Thy glory and holiness, Thy perpetuity and sovereignty, Thy belovedness and praiseworthiness... For Thou, O my God, hast created no being closer to Thee than Muhammad and the family of Muhammad.  BB00011

And I bear witness to Muhammad, Thy Beloved, may Thy blessings be upon him and his family, as becometh Thee... And bestow Thy peace, O God, upon his chosen successors: Ali, Hassan, Hussein, Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, Ali, Muhammad, Ali, Hassan, and the Proof, the Qaim - Thy blessings be upon them with all Thy signs and bestowals   BB00182

I implore Thee by the remembrance of what Thou hast inspired me concerning Muhammad and the family of Muhammad - Thy blessings be upon them - the repositories of Thy Cause, the treasuries of Thy bounty, the signs of Thy detachment, the stations of Thy praise, the manifestations of Thy sanctification, and the evidences of Thy glorification   BB00156

The members of this small band of voluntary exiles consisted of eleven men and four women, including his daughter Rokaia and his son-in-law Othman Ibn Affan who acted as the leader of the party....  With them came also Jafar, the son of Abou Taleb and brother of Ali. Jafar was a man of true faith and possessed a native eloquence and a confident heart.   ABU0312

Peace be upon you, O Family of La, this Book containeth remembrance and justice for the devout! Peace be upon you, O leaves of the Divine Tree, fruits of the holy and glorious trees, fruits of the Tree of Sinai and of the Kingdom, gardens of the Tree of Justice, and pearls of bounty in the thicket of the human realm, and the mercy of God and His blessings!  BB00113

His companions through whom Thy sovereignty and power were made manifest and the decree of unity was established among Thy creatures, and who strove in Thy Cause with true striving and aided Thy religion with true aid. Thou hast said concerning them - and Thy word is the truth - "Honored servants who speak not until He hath spoken, and who do as they are bidden."   BH01692

Just as the companions of the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) in Mecca gave up their homes to plunder and fled as emigrants to Medina, where they spent days in utmost poverty and need. It reached the point in the Battle of the Trench where they had no sustenance except water. The blessed person of the Prophet would tie stones to his blessed belly from intense hunger.  AB00793

And Thou didst choose for the manifestation of Thy Beloved's religion and the exaltation of Thy Book thirteen souls, whom Thou didst select for Thyself, and chose them for Thy remembrance, and appointed them for Thy revelation when Thou didst reveal in Thy Book, and Thou didst place them before all Thy creation and raised them above all the dwellers of Thy heaven and earth.  BB00011

by the sanctity of KHY'S and HM'SQ, and by the Ascension of the Chosen One, and by the martyrdom of the Accepted One, and by the nearness to Thee of the Companions of the Cave...by the choosing of Moses and his firmness in religion, and I beseech Thee by Thy Christ Jesus son of Mary and his modesty, and by the purity of Fatima the Radiant, and by the martyrdom of Husayn at Karbila  BB00537

And upon his companions, through whom God's Cause was established throughout all regions and His traces spread throughout all lands, through whom the hearts of the idolaters were disturbed and the hearts of the doubtful ones yearned, and through whom God cut off the last remnant of the wrongdoers who violated God's Covenant and His pledge, and who followed what their own desires commanded them.   BH01397

Abu Dharr al-Ghifari was outwardly a shepherd, and Abu Ayyub al-Ansari was a lowly man, but because they were companions of the Messenger of God, their descendants still take pride in their names. Aws and Khazraj were two tribes who were companions - one group were the Emigrants who had come with the Blessed Beauty from Mecca to Medina, and one group were the Helpers who were natives of Medina itself.  ABU1544

And I bear witness unto Muhammad, Ali, Fatima, Hassan, Hussein, Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, Ali, Muhammad, Ali, Hassan and Muhammad - Thy blessings be upon them all - even as Thou didst create them for the station of Thy knowledge and didst make them the manifestations of Thy sovereignty, raising up no distinction between them and the example of Thy revelation within them, save the word of servitude.   BB00145

The well-known tradition previously mentioned is specifically for these days: "Whoso visiteth Husayn in his tomb is as one who hath visited God upon His throne." In former times the Person was not manifest that the truth of this tradition might be made evident. Today all atoms proclaim: "Whoso visiteth the Two Husayns in their tombs is as one who hath visited God upon His throne," for the Truth is manifest and evident  BH00487

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Name through which Thou didst create Muhammad, Thy Beloved One, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst create Ali, Thy Friend, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst create Fatimih, the Luminous Leaf from the Tree of Thy Prophethood and the Celestial Fruit from the Tree of Thy Providence - she whom Thou didst ennoble, beautify, exalt, honor and place above all the women of the world   BB00380

They consider the Imam 'Ali (peace be upon him) to be the Manifestor of Wonders, and this is true and certain, yet how strange that they do not recognize the Intended One, despite the fact that His Holiness 'Ali (peace be upon him) was the Caliph of four realms and had endless armies at his command. Yet outwardly Mu'aviyih conquered territories far and near, which does not contradict his being the Manifestor of Wonders.   AB02134

And I bear witness in this Book to Muhammad and 'Ali and Fatimih and Hasan and Husayn and 'Ali and Muhammad and Ja'far and Musa and 'Ali and Muhammad and 'Ali and Hasan and Thy Proof who standeth by Thy Command - Thy blessings be upon them as Thou willest concerning them and as Thy knowledge encompasseth them - for Thou hast created them as the Manifestation of Thy Lordship and the Sign of Thy Oneness and the Station of Thy knowledge   BB00124

He revealed the mystery of existence through which the ocean of knowledge and recognition surged in creation, and named him Muhammad in the kingdom of names. He is the one by whose name the back of idols was broken and the winds of unbelief and tyranny were cut off. Through him the gates of the cities of knowledge and wisdom were opened and the peacock of recognition trilled among creation. He is the sovereign of the Messengers and the guide of ways.  BH02664

From amongst the handmaidens the great Khadijih attained this tremendous honour, because she remained steadfast, nay thankful, in the midst of tribulations and afflictions. Well is it with her and blessed is she. She is one of those women who was nurtured from the fruits of the Divine Lote-Tree and quaffed from the Immortal River. Well is it with her and with every handmaiden who hath loved her, hath turned to her and hath spoken forth in praise of her.  BH05320

And blessings be upon Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, His servant whom He fashioned for Himself, chose for His love, selected for His authority, approved for His obedience, and made the Guardian over all things great and small through the all-encompassing nature of His mercy. None can say concerning him "he is he," for as he is, only He knoweth him, and none can testify to his station save Him, nor can any equal him except His Own Self, nor can any parallel him save His Own Essence, nor can any resemble him save His knowledge.   BB00140

Glory be unto Thee, there is no God but Thee, and that Muhammad is Thy servant and Thy Messenger, in truth and justice - and that which will give peace to our souls from the Manifestations of the lights of Thy countenance and the leaves of the Tree of Thine eternity - Glory be unto Thee, there is no God but Thee, and that Ali and Fatima and Hassan and Hussein and Ali and Muhammad and Ja'far and Musa and Ali and Muhammad and Ali and Muhammad and Hassan and Muhammad, Thy Guardian who standeth by Thy Cause, are Thy chosen ones in the kingdom of command and creation.   BB00096

Peace be upon thee, O divine Tree through whom God, thy Lord, was made manifest in the pre-existence of the Essence and the transcendence of attributes, such that after the Imams, God's blessings be upon them, nothing of essence can reach thee, nor can any compare with thee in the station of attributes. Thou art indeed sanctified above all similitude and exalted above all likeness, for God chose thee for His Beloved, selected thee for His Friend, approved thee for His Proof, fashioned thee as the manifestation of His Being, and elected thee for the station of the revelation of His sovereignty.  BB00134

Blessings be upon Muhammad, the center of the circle of existence in all the worlds, the Manifestation from God, and the One Who standeth in His place in all the worlds of the unseen and the visible, Who was mentioned in the two Names and veiled in the two Symbols, Who appeared in the two Stations and was exalted in the two Commands. And peace be upon the Manifestations of His Self, the Imams of the Faith, the Pillars of Certitude, the Manifestations of the revelations of God's Name, the Mighty, the Powerful, and what hath been sent down in the inner meanings of the verses of the Perspicuous Book.   BB00238

And blessings and peace be upon the first sign that shone forth from the horizon of Will and Purpose, and the first Word whereby was adorned the brocade of the Book of Unity and Love - He Who was named Muhammad in the Book of Names and by the Most Beautiful Names in a Tablet which none has seen save God, the Lord of Names and Creator of heaven, and upon His family and companions through whom flowed the rivers of generosity in the world and through whom was made manifest the decree of the Lord of Eternity amongst the peoples - blessings which no understanding or mind can encompass and which none can enumerate. BH02373

The second is the Book of Ali, peace be upon him, wherein God hath ordained the laws of absolute sovereignty pertaining to him, and it is the Paradise of Unity. God hath made its shade for those who acknowledge his sovereignty. The third is the Book of Fatima, may God's blessings be upon her, wherein God hath ordained all that is for her and upon her, and it is the Paradise of Delight. The fourth is the Book of Hassan, peace be upon him, wherein are written his laws and the laws of his followers who have entered the depths of Oneness in the shelter of his love, and it is the Paradise of Eden and the Pole of Paradise, having no boundaries. The fifth is the Book of Hussein, peace be upon him - may my soul be sacrificed for him - wherein are the laws concerning himself, even unto the name of his murderer - may he be cursed and punished. The sixth is the Book of Ja'far ibn Muhammad, peace be upon them both, wherein is written whatsoever God hath willed concerning him, and it is the Paradise of Immortality. The seventh is the Book of Musa ibn Ja'far, peace be upon them both, wherein is written all that God hath willed concerning him, and it is the Paradise of Refuge.   BB00455
