But, if you find a soul whose friendship or association is dangerous, which may perchance be the cause of harm to yourself, you should have only a formal acquaintanceship. Be kind and speak with such people not harshly, but leave them alone; do not mix with them. There are many bad people in the world; have nothing to do with them. Do not gossip about them. ABU2182

Consider the companionship of the righteous a bounty, and withdraw both hand and heart from association with the wicked. And in this connection the Tongue of Grandeur declares that if after associating with a person in three gatherings you observe no effect from you upon him, surely withdraw, for an effect from him upon you will become manifest.  BHU0001


"Is it possible to seek association and to familiarize oneself with a scorpion? Read over the Bible for this question is clearly explained in many different places." "O Friend! In the garden of the heart plant only flowers of Love, and withdraw not from clinging to the Nightingale of Love and yearning. Esteem the friendship of the just but withdraw both mind and hand from the company of the wicked."  AB02067

There are other people who are ill-tempered, who are accustomed to tell lies or fibs. We must not shun these people. Gently we must teach them - and pray every night that we may not become inoculated with these poisonous social microbes - and show them by example, by word and by deed the benefits of veracity and truthfulness.  ABU2178

Today, as it was Christmas, I went to visit some Christian friends. According to the command of the Blessed Beauty, I associate with all people in a spirit of joy and fragrance, but I do not associate with those individuals whose harm reaches the Cause. In the sacred verses He says "Associate with the followers of all religions in a spirit of joy and fragrance," and elsewhere He says "Beware of associating with the wicked." If someone wishes to create doubts in hearts or invites one to idle amusement, one should not associate with them but should shun them. ABU2548

Then remind, from Our presence, all those small and great from whom thou dost detect the fragrance of truthfulness and on whose faces thou seest the radiance of delight. Then conceal the Cause from those whose faces are turned to thee but whose hearts are set towards thine enemies, and who scheme at every moment. Turn away from these, neither associate with them nor sit in their chambers, nor dwell in their habitations.   BH00745

The material men of this world are like poison to the spiritual. They are the calamities and inconveniences which a man meets within the worldly life. They are like people who are very much intoxicated and do not understand the bitter taste of the cup, while the conscientious and mindful understand its bitterness.  ABU2187

No one can deny the plain fact that the association of those souls who have deviated from the path of rectitude is harmful. Who will advise you to hug a serpent to your breast or keep a scorpion in your sleeve? We must avail ourselves of the association of the righteous and withdraw our hand and mind from the company of the wickedness.   ABU0368


Today there are many mindless ones who, like animals, are captive to the world of nature and unaware of the divine realm - whoever they befriend, they cast doubts. Gradually this deadly poison affects the souls of the listeners  AB00335

You may meet these people in public but no need of close association; because if one's character is not strong enough to be proof against temptation one may be slowly led to those risky paths.  ABU2178

The blight of humankind is to associate with the foolish and to become estranged from the people of wisdom. For association is contagious.  AB11147


consort not with them who have disbelieved and associated partners with God and who were far removed from the court of nearness  BH07080

avoiding heedless and hostile persons  AB09030

Certainly one must avoid unworthy souls, otherwise morals become completely corrupted.   AB02368

Therefore I exhort you to protect your children from the evil influence of the wayward.   ABU0793

Avoid the foul odor of the heedless ones, for it causeth lassitude and removeth spirituality  AB09837

Consort not with Mine enemies, nor turn thy attention unto them, save when thou arisest to champion My Cause.  BH11754

We came to meet the poor, not to see kings and princes. We have no desire or inclination to meet with leaders   ABU3020

We are commanded to deal with the utmost love and kindness even with our enemies, how much more so with friends.  AB08844

O servants of the All-Merciful! Take not the unbelievers as friends in place of those who have precedence among the believers.  BB00002

association with those souls known for their hatred of the Truth is never permitted. Therefore shun them that you may prosper.   BH06404

And if thou findest the people heedless of the Cause and intoxicated with love, turn away from them and set thy face toward God.  BH11791



Therefore, in the divine verses both fellowship with all peoples and avoidance of the people of hypocrisy and corruption have been revealed.   AB05094


associate not with those from whose hearts and souls thou perceivest the winds of hypocrisy, and avoid them and abide under a preserved protection   BH03068

Association with outsiders is like unto a 'knife-edge file.' It wears and cuts away the spirit. One does not hear from them one joy-creating word.   ABU1626

Beware lest thou draw nigh unto them whose hearts thou findest veiled from the mention of the name of thy Lord, and associate not with them in any place   BH02440

When you see one who is immersed in his desires, listen not to what he says...When you detect from anyone the fragrance of aversion, draw not near to him   BH01556

Beware, beware of meeting or associating with these corrupt souls, for they have no purpose except self and passion, and no intention except sedition and corruption.   AB04007

These are numerous instances in the Writings of Baha'u'llah, some of which we have just read, that we must hold aloof from the association of evil-doers and the sowers of the seeds of discord.  ABU2073

Draw not nigh unto those who have wronged lest their torment touch thee, for they have no life in them. Walk with them toward thy goal, for this is permitted to the believers in the Book of God.  BB00510

Trust no man save him whose breast hath been dilated by God through the light of faith, whom God hath confirmed in His Religion, and who is severed from all else save God and attracted by His Fragrances.   AB04527

On the other hand there are some persons whose very respiration extinguishes the light of faith; whose conversation weakens firmness and steadfastness in the Cause of God; whose company divert one's attention from the kingdom of Abha.  ABU1295

Beware lest thou consort with the deceitful ones. Turn thy face from their faces and thine ears from their melodies, lest thou shouldst inhale the poisonous fumes from their souls and find thyself far removed from the shore of the sea.   BH05298

In contrast to the above, there are people whose breath will extinguish the fire of devotion, who will turn steadfastness into waywardness and beguile those focused on the Abha Kingdom, which is why it is revealed, "Do not associate with stonehearted."   ABU0879

As commanded, association with Husayn-i-Sukhtih is not permitted, for he is consumed with the fire of hatred and is deprived of justice and fairness, unless he should return. Leave him to himself, placing your trust in God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH00715

However, it behooveth thee not to turn to those from whom thou perceivest the fragrance of aversion, nor to draw near unto them, nor to associate with them. Thus have We commanded Our servants who have believed in God, the Almighty, the Most Powerful, the All-Wise.  BH01388

One who associates with evil companions loses his reputation and his good name; from being good he becomes bad, from being virtuous he becomes impure, from being holy he becomes depraved. Do not take example from the vicious, do not permit yourselves to be corrupted by the evil-minded.  ABU1483

since you interfere in political matters, we have no association with you. Your path is different from our path. We are Baha'is and you are Buddhist, and you engage in political matters and discussions. Our path is very different from yours, therefore excuse us from association and correspondence.  AB11190

Souls must be protected from frigid and cold souls. If you guard against them, they will remain healthy, otherwise they will become entirely ill. Strange it is that when a tree here becomes [afflicted], if you do not remedy it, it will spread to all. But if you cut it off, it will not spread to others.  ABU2247

Shun those who have disbelieved, then remember thy Ancient Lord. He, verily, preserveth whom He willeth and aideth those who have turned unto Him. He is, in truth, powerful over all things. Grieve not because of the wicked ones. They are assuredly the companions of the fire and shall enter their abodes therein.   BH05015

The Iranian children in 'Akka were like angels, but alas, some of them associated with the Arabs or with ill-mannered children. When they argued, all their speech was in Persian, but then they would curse in Arabic since they were not taught similar words in Persian. When they became youth, they associated with non-Baha'is and became totally corrupt. Soon I had no choice but to expel them all.   ABU0793

In light of these blessed utterances and the words of Christ, it is clear and evident that one must associate with souls who are firm in the Covenant and be intimate with the righteous, for an evil companion causes the contagion of evil character, like unto leprosy where it is impossible for one to associate and be intimate with a leper without contracting the disease. This is for protection and preservation.   AB00024

And whenever you observe anyone who has the slightest unseemly movement or from whom you detect an unholy fragrance, you must absolutely and immediately shun and avoid them, for harm to the Cause of God lies in association with such ones. For certain souls have appeared who are captives to self and passion yet speak the name of Truth. These souls are worse than deadly poison to the Cause of God. Great caution is necessary.   AB02946

For example, it has often been observed that some souls, with the utmost love and attraction and joy and fragrance, associated with materialists and the morally corrupt and became completely worthless and empty. Even in the Holy Land, the Protestants took one or two youth to their homes under the pretext of teaching language, and arranged some improper circumstances such as mixing with women. They nearly caused them to go completely astray through these means.  AB00629

When associating with heedless souls and malicious persons, their foul odors reach the nostrils of the soul. One may live in a place where there are foul odors and not be weakened by that odor, nor become ill, nor contract any sickness or disease. Likewise with heedless souls who harbor ill will and disease toward the Divine Cause and are unmindful of the Truth. When one associates and sits with such souls, one inevitably inhales foul odors which leave their mark.  ABU1427

There is a story of a Shaykh meeting a Bektash and saying to him, "Why do you continue causing mischief and spending your time gratifying your carnal desires? Come with me and pray, meditate, fast for forty days, fear God and become righteous. Once you have become accustomed to praying and fasting, then you will no longer commit unseemly acts." Bektash responded, "There is no need for forty days of prayer. You stay with me for just one night and all religion will be forgotten to you!"   ABU0793

Shun those who have turned away and consort with My servants who have turned towards Me.  BH09345

Associate with My loved ones and shun Mine enemies. Thus doth the Pen of might and glory command thee.   BH03221

And if thou findest in a heart My love, associate with him; otherwise shun him and be of those who turn away.   BH04391

Unite with the loved ones of God and shun the devils who whisper in the breasts of men and call them to rebellion. By God! They are but in manifest error.   BH04392

The assistance and grace of the Divine Unity is conditional upon and dependent on the fellowship of one or two holy souls with perfect wisdom, and avoidance of heedless, hateful persons.  AB09030

"When ye behold those on whose faces shineth the light of the All-Merciful, remind them of this momentous News. And when ye find those who have turned away, avoid them and remain in an impregnable fortress."  BH03987

We have ever enjoined upon all to act with and associate with those on earth in a spirit of fragrance and delight, save those souls from whom the odor of malice is diffused - in such case, avoidance is necessary.  BH10448

This is why one must avoid the wicked and associate with the righteous. In the Persian Hidden Words He states: "O My son! The company of the ungodly increaseth sorrow, whilst fellowship with the righteous cleanseth the rust from off the heart."   AB00739

There are those whose impurity is to such a degree that association with them is not only unprofitable but harmful. One should not completely avoid them, but association with them should be solely for the purpose of awakening and enlightening them.   ABU1974

This is why in the Tablets of the Blessed Beauty there are both commands to associate with the faithful and promote the unity of humankind, and prohibitions against fellowship with the wicked and the necessity of avoiding the people of negation and denial.  ABU1691

it is far from wise to associate in a spirit of fellowship with thieves, the immoral, and the corrupt. One must show utmost love and kindness to the followers of all religions, but if a person is a Baha'i and is of bad character and conduct, one must avoid that person even though he be a Baha'i.  ABU1427

We should eschew people with abhorrent behavior, such as, a thief, or philanderer, or a murderer. "Consort with all the religions" does not apply to such people. That is, if you know that someone sows the seeds of rebellion and enmity against the Blessed Beauty, then you should not associate with them.   ABU1972

When any of the friends associate with the heedless ones, they should, with utmost kindness and joy, become the cause of their awareness and the means of their remembrance. Avoidance is of two kinds: One kind is to protect the Cause of God, and this should be done with spirit and fragrance, not with harshness and severity. The other kind stems from harshness, and this is not acceptable.  AB02358

