The cause of life hath been water, as witnessed by "from water did We make all things living." At times He hath bestowed this virtue upon fire, even as He made the fire of the Mount the cause of life for all peoples.   BH00326

And the Fire crieth out: "The Chosen One hath appeared!"   BH07489

This fire is in truth light, and light is identical with fire.  BH05314

Such is the proof that maketh fire into light and light into fire.  BB00004

O lit candle and O burnt moth! It is the time of burning and melting   AB04024

from the fire kindled on Mount Paran thou hast been set ablaze and ignited   AB07525

At times I behold it as fire, for by it are consumed the hearts of the sincere.  BH10844

blaze like a sphere of fire and ignite the hearts of all horizons, kindle a bright lamp   AB06372

Verily the lamp hath been lit in its niche and verily the fire hath appeared from the Tree   BH07508

you acquired illumination from the lights of Mount Sinai and witnessed a gleam of radiance   AB05545

This fire is in truth water appearing in the form of fire - outwardly fire, inwardly light.   BH04673

the breast becomes a mirror and the lights of the love of God are more brilliantly reflected   AB04280

It is a camphor candle burning and melting... His crown radiant and His lamp guiding the path.   AB03923

This celestial sun is a sign of that Sun, and this fire is a token of that world-illumining Fire.   AB01912

"You who are a sapling of that garden and a flame of that lamp - radiate light and set the world ablaze."  AB05508

It is even as fire that consumeth the veils, and as water that washeth the souls of all who are in the universe.  BH10509

You have been set ablaze by the fire kindled in the blessed Tree of the Lord...reached the Dawning-place of lights  AB04904

He that riseth at one time and falleth at another is not worthy to draw nigh unto this Fire, for by it all things are consumed   BH06751

made the fountain of sweet water to flow in the abode of fire, and ordained the spring of life to be in the treasury of flames   BH08601

This Paradise is that place which has been lit by the Light of thy Lord's face - the merciful, the Compassionate. Come Nearer to that Light!   BH11546

Every object in this world has the power of combustion. The objects by themselves and in themselves will not be ignited. A flame is necessary.  ABU3415

"wherein Thou didst join together fire and water and unite them through Thy power"  BH01730

Great is the blessedness of him that hath drawn nigh unto it, and heard its roaring.... I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by this Fire which blazeth and rageth in the world of creation  BH07847

you will be set ablaze with this fire which is light itself - an enkindlement that the seas of the doubts and idle fancies of the people cannot extinguish   BH04866

Fix your gaze upon and hold fast to this blessed word which is like a lamp in the darkness of the world...He is the Fire in the hearts of the yearning ones.  BH09335

When the candle of guidance is kindled within the glass of the heart... The lights of sanctification and the rays of unity shine upon all parts and members   AB05296

Therefore hath it set itself upon the blazing fire of My Face... was illumined by the splendours of the Light of holiness in the undying Fire kindled by God   BH11265

When you acquire illumination from the divine light, you will become a sign of "light upon light" and a dawning-place of the effulgence of the Sovereign of Manifestation  AB11496

like a burning ember and fiery spark, set ablaze the hearts of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, that each may become a lamp of lights and a niche of light upon light   AB07214

souls are set ablaze with the fire of enkindlement... inner consciousness rejoices in the radiance of lights... hast warmed thyself at the fire kindled on the highest Mount.   AB05950

Thou art He Who maketh fire to be light...I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst make the fire cool and peaceful for Abraham, to make the fire cool and peaceful for me  BB00565

This fire is in truth water appearing in the form of fire - outwardly fire, inwardly light. Through this water all things have had and will have life, for "from water doth all life come."   BH04673

My God, my God! Thy light calls me unto Thee, and Thy fire keeps me back from Thee. I testify that the light hath appeared and shone forth from Thy face, while the fire is from mine own deeds   BH08649

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the Kingdom of lights of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them. Therefore, glorify ye God on that Day in the True Faith with mighty glorification.  BB00004

O Bahram! Know this with absolute certainty. Firstly, He came with the Fire from the presence of the Friend and enkindled the extinguished element, and secondly, He gave His testimony concerning the Fire.   BH01711

When in any external entity the element of fire becomes dominant, intense burning becomes manifest, and likewise in any luminous reality when the element of the fire of attraction prevails, flame and eruption result   AB06809

and in this dusty realm of evanescence you may kindle a luminous lamp and burn away the veils of vain imaginings, and raise high the banner under the Divine Word, and burn and be content with the kindled fire of the Lord.   AB06105

Therefore, O my God, protect me from all fire and grant me paradise and whatsoever Thou hast created therein, for I know of no fire more intense than remoteness from Thee, and no paradise more exalted than nearness unto Thee.   BB00255

God hath created no being, male or female, save for the fire of the hearts which speaketh laudably around the ocean. As for him who giveth himself in love of the fire and guardeth himself from the fire, he is among the people of Paradise, recorded as being around the fire.  BB00002

kindled with the fire burning in the Spirit on Mt. Sinai... from this conflagration shall appear dazzling lights, which shall shine upon all regions... that Lamp hath diffused its dazzling rays unto the Supreme Height and that Fire hath burned until it kindled the hearts of the righteous!   AB02145

O thou who hast acquired illumination from the niche of mysteries! By thy life, verily the heart is in rapture, the spirit is in attraction, the innermost heart is aflame, the body is enkindled, and the bones are in dissolution from the kindling of the fire of the love of God and the blazing of its flames.  AB06511

Through the appearance of this word two universal effects became manifest in creation: fire and light. For whosoever turned toward it was accounted before God among the companions of the right hand who have attained the lights of His countenance, and whosoever turned away was mentioned as one of the people of fire.   BH03888

O yearning ones! If you are not enkindled by this divine fire that has been ignited, by what means will you dispel the cold of contingent being and the frigid conditions of human limitations? And if you are not illumined by this divine lamp that glows in the glass of the All-Merciful, by what light shall you be guided?  AB00213

A celestial fire hath been kindled in the very heart of mankind, and burns brightly in the Sacred Tree. Ere long its glowing flame shall set ablaze the souls of men and its light illumine the regions of the world. The Divine Candle hath thrown its beams upon the world, whilst the heedless, veiled and afflicted, languish, moth-like, in their darkness of error.  AB07151

It is calling aloud at all times upon the branch of Fire within the hallowed and luminous garden of Paradise, that perchance the inmates of the realm of creation may detach themselves from the world of dust and ascend unto the retreats of nearness -- the Spot where the Fire seeketh illumination from the light of the Countenance of God, the Glorious, the Powerful.   BH10832

The similitude and example of this is this: that with reflection and rational proof, certainty about the existence of fire can be achieved, but when one seeth fire itself, that is then the station of the Vision of Certainty. When a human being gets ignited with that same fire or when one senses fully the heat of that fire, that is the station of the Reality of Certainty.  AB04958

The fire lit by mortal hand imparteth light and warmth to but a little space, whereas that sacred flame which the Hand of God hath kindled, though burning in the east, will set aflame the west and give warmth to both the north and the south; nay, it shall rise from this world to glow with the hottest flame in the realms on high, flooding with light the Kingdom of eternal glory.  AB06934

Some maintain that the source and essence of elemental fire is the warmth in the hearts of lovers and the sighs of yearning souls. Others hold that this quality existeth in all things... And in the estimation of them that are endowed with divine vision and spiritual insight, the cause of elemental fire and its generation is from the Pen of Destiny which is occupied in inscription  BH11781

The moth which is animated by love will burn its wings as it flitteth round the lamp of God, and the phoenix of tender affection will be set ablaze by the fire of ardent desire. No unfamiliar bird can partake of the heat of this Fire, nor can the fowls that dwell upon the dust plunge forth into this heavenly Ocean. However, praise be unto God, ye are the leviathans of this ocean, the birds of this pasture, the moths of this lamp, the nightingales of this meadow.  AB00610

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! There is no difference between Fire and Light save the number of the Gate. Thou causest to enter whom Thou willest therein. Thus is the earth of Fire transformed into Light, and this in Thy power is nearer than all things.   BB00178
