the call of the All-Merciful is raised and likewise the cry of Satan   BH04895

The darkness of suppression will disappear and the Light of Unity will shine.  ABU1590

the dark clouds of blind imitation will disperse and the Sun of Reality will shine  AB12316

Two calls are raised in the contingent world: one the call of the All-Merciful, the other the call of Satan.  ABU1735

Today both the light and the fire are manifest, and both the call of the All-Merciful and of Satan are raised.   BH10531

The darkness of this gloomy night shall pass away. Again the Sun of Reality will dawn from the horizon of the hearts.  ABU2031

These nations are thinking, Hate. You think with all your powers, Love. They are calling War. Send out a call for Peace.   ABU2610

This is a day wherein the call of the All-Merciful is raised from one direction, and likewise the cawing of Satan from another.   BH09661

Therefore, O Lord of Hosts, confirm us so that the army of light may achieve victory and the forces of darkness may be defeated.  AB05585

But now is a time when the lamps must be full-flamed and kindled and brilliant so they may resist and dispel the accumulated darkness.  AB04035

Today the Call of God is raised high, and likewise the cawing of Satan. Strive ye that ye may drink from the Kawthar of steadfastness.   BH07231

They desire to extinguish God's light with their mouths, but God refuses except to perfect His light, though the unbelievers detest it   AB02175

The Inward benefic force bodies forth in the garment of Appearances, often followed by convulsive extortions and exacerbating paroxysm.  ABU0621

My hope is that the region of Germany may become, through the effulgent rays of the Sun of Reality, a supreme paradise and a divine realm  AB12286

Those who serve the Cause of Love are confirmed. Let nothing discourage you. Cry out the word Peace. Push ahead. Seest thou not the light?  ABU0325

The world of existence is a battlefield of strife and contention, and all the earth is stained and dyed with the precious blood of humanity.  AB06865

The battle lines of nations are being successively broken, and thousands of armies of peoples are repeatedly being routed moment by moment.   AB04022

The lights of the Greatest Name have encompassed the horizons of all nations, yet the heedless remain submerged in the depths of vain imaginings  AB09862

But now that the Sun of the celestial realm has risen from the horizon of Iran, the names of those ancient monarchs have been renewed and revived  AB09441

Though clouds may conceal the rays of the sun for a time, yet ultimately the dense clouds shall dissipate and the radiant beams shall shine forth.   AB06650

If their instigation and corruption did not exist, the fame of God's Cause would not be raised. In this there is wisdom for those who have insight.  AB00541

They who have turned unto the Countenance are the people of Baha in the Crimson Book, and they who remained heedless are among the people of the fire   BH06540

But be not grieved, for the effulgences of the Sun of Truth shall absorb the excess moisture of nature and shall gather together the scattered letters.   BH05695

Soon shall oppression and its perpetrator pass away, while justice and its manifestations shall endure, by the decree of the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH05097

Were We to lift the veil, thou wouldst witness the people circling round the will of thy Lord, Who ruleth over all that are in the heavens and on earth.   BH04492

Soon will it transform the darkness of night into the light of day through its effulgence and radiance, and its signs will appear throughout all regions.   BH10848

Oppression hath encompassed the world, ignorance and heedlessness like a dark night hath seized both East and West and rendered them dark.  AB10510

Let us hope that there shall be a speedy settlement for all these barbaric, brutal destruction and new vandalism and that love may take the place of enmity.   ABU1515

Victory is of two kinds: material and spiritual. Material victory is not so important but spiritual victory is conducive to the life of the world of humanity.  AB09115

Despite the fact that the outpouring of grace encompasses all...still there is coldness and lifelessness and lethargy that has encompassed those who are frozen  AB12430

Observe how different nations of the world are openly and evidently in constant war with the Blessed Cause, sparing no means to extinguish the kindled fire of God.  AB00367

Although the dust of malice hath prevented the light from shining forth, yet the time shall come when it will appear without any veil and illumine the whole world.   BH05413

those souls who are deprived of sincerity and purity have imagined the True One to be like themselves, and therefore strive and struggle to extinguish the divine light   BH10983

When the Morn of Eternity illumined the horizon of the world, the bats were scattered, crying "Woe unto us! No scope or field remains for us, our shop and market are ruined!"  AB00708

in such a storm and such a general onslaught, when all hearts are troubled and souls are disturbed, 'Abdu'l-Baha with complete confidence and tranquility engaged you in building  AB02385

"In the world everything which promotes union, harmony, and love is from God, for union is life, but everything which causes discord is from Satan and is death and annihilation."  ABU0709

Soon shall the dominion of the oppressors and the proud ones pass away, and the might of the rebellious and the tyrannical ones shall vanish like unto those who have gone before.   BH10412

Observe ye how He hath set the world in motion. This is the earthquake of that Hour which hath appeared and seized all save a few who have drawn nigh unto the Divine Countenance.   BH07596

All the lamps of the world shall be extinguished, except the Lamp of the Love of God. All the trees in the universe shall be cut down except the blessed Tree of the Kingdom of God  AB12461

Spiritual Light is the only thing that will banish the present gross darkness and our duty is to find the centre of that Light. All other remedies are palliative and not permanent.   ABU1189

That which is of paramount importance today is steadfastness in the Cause of God, inasmuch as the satans of the earth have been and are engaged in misleading and seducing the people.   BH08146

Wait and see what the sun will bring, For what you saw were but effects of dawn. Soon the world from East to West will be illumined, but this depends on the power of the friends' efforts.  AB09213

when ye behold Satan seeking to ascend unto the heaven of understanding that he may discover what is in your hearts of the love of the All-Merciful, drive him away with the shooting stars   BH02486

Consider the upheavals in European lands ahead - all became hopeless, then new souls benefited. Those helpless ones suffered crises, then strangers came and seized the ball from the field.   AB02308

This is the century in which the Divine Spirit pervades all things. This is the Age of Reality. The Sun of Reality will shine with such intensity as to entirely dispel the darkness of dogmas.  AB07131

Wherever We go, We kindle a light. Our enemies, the violators of the Covenant, however, exert to extinguish that light. Wherever We plant a tree, our rebellious acquaintances try to uproot it.  ABU1543

the hosts of the Abha Kingdom and the unseen legions have been dispatched by the Beauty of Baha to the East and West, and they have broken and continue to break the ranks throughout all regions.   AB01821

During these years of upheaval when war in the world was like the flood of Noah, despite this the true friends increased in sincere love and demonstrated steadfastness and firmness as they should.   AB02221

the fire of the divine Tree hath enkindled the hearts of the servants... The murky waters of the objections of heedless souls cannot extinguish this fire; rather they cause it to blaze more fiercely.   BH04432

Thus will the dark world become luminous, the satanic field transformed into the courts of the Merciful, the mound of earth become the mound of Heaven and the terrestrial globe the Eternal Rose-garden.  AB08462

The shining beams of light emanating from the Sun of Truth have illumined the horizons of the world of creation and the rays issuing forth from the Kingdom of divine unity have lit up the realm of being.  AB07546

The earth hath been shaken in these days and the cry hath been raised between earth and heaven. Thus hath the matter been decreed from the presence of the Lord of the Throne above and of the earth below.   BH06046

That darkness was transformed into light and that concealment led to manifestation. The lights of truth illumined the horizons and the fragrances from the garden of the All-Merciful perfumed all creation.  AB05820

The believers are in supreme joy while those who waver are in manifest distress - the fire of hell scorcheth their faces and their hearts are consumed by flames and blazing fire and the torment of burning.  AB07802

Let not the oppression of the oppressors sadden you. The Cause of God hath encompassed the world. Soon shall the standard of divine sanctification be raised through you and in your name throughout the world.   BH07999


But the unwise seek contamination and fall into trials. What a bounty this is that God has willed and with which He has adorned the world! And what baseness is this that causes death and depression and withering!   AB06779

The darkness of error hath encompassed East and West and is engaged in battle with the light of guidance in this most great cycle. Its arrows and spears are very sharp and piercing, and its army most bloodthirsty.  AB01203

The whole world has fallen upon each other. There is killing and plunder, there is beating, there is destruction. We, praise be to God, are in perfect love and peace, apart from all these conflicts and struggles.   ABU1736

For several centuries, the West has been at war with the East - that is, the entire continent of Europe with the entire continent of Asia - in continuous battle. This warfare is complete and renowned in all respects.   AB00386

Consider for a moment what mad and awful frenzy has taken possession of the hearts of men that they are murdering their own brothers with this amazing rapidity. What is this malignity, this rancor, this maliciousness!  ABU0646

Human nature in this phenomenal world is fashioned with the poison of war and strife. We need a powerful force beyond and above this world of nature, so that this condition may be effaced from the surface of the world.  AB03885

But the donkeys kick, the dogs bark, the wolves tear other animals to pieces and the beasts of prey play havoc in the animal Kingdom. We must not be like the latter but exercise towards each other perfect love and amity.  ABU2008

Darkness hath fallen upon every land, and the forces of mischief have encompassed all the nations. Through them, however, I perceive the splendors of Thy wisdom, and discern the brightness of the light of Thy providence.   BH08838

Indeed, the wings of the peacock spread out in the midmost heart of paradise and the crow croaked in the ruinous waste. The Dove sang in the thickly planted grove of faithfulness and the owl screeched in the ominous land.  AB09077

Napoleon established his kingdom through the power of oppression while Christ established His through the power of the love of God. A hundred thousand Napoleons may be effaced but the Kingdom of Christ will remain forever.   ABU1487

The people of tyranny desired to destroy the Law of God. The divine champion, the Word of God, came forth to the field, defeated the army of ignorance, and through the rays of the Sun of Truth destroyed the hosts of darkness.  AB09376

They have cast those precious jewels into the furnace of self and passion. They have set aside those loving counsels and admonitions, and have arisen in such oppression and aggression as hath never been witnessed in the world.  ABU0084

Under all conditions, keep thy gaze fixed on the Truth and hold fast unto Him. The satans are lying in wait and expectant. Each one of you must, like a piercing flame, prevent the satans from ascending to the heavens of hearts.  BH00014

They fight like a vicious wolf in the name of protection and security, and like unto wild beasts of prey they tear each other apart, expecting humanity to sit back and watch. How vile and disgraceful is that which they imagine!   AB01575

Today the penetrative power in the world of existence is the confirmation of the Kingdom of Abha. Every plan and system which is assisted by this power will be established in the world of humanity and will be realized among men.  ABU0752

The horizons of contingent being are encompassed by endless darkness, and the Cause of God is like the world-illumining sun, yet the deeds of the people of passion have become like dark clouds blocking the rays of the All-Merciful  AB10534

Darkness hath enveloped most of the peoples: Where is the brightness of Thy splendor, O Radiance of the worlds? The whisperings of Satan have been breathed to every creature: Where is the meteor of Thy fire, O Light of the worlds?   BH00687

The black cloud of war has dispersed and the dawn of universal peace has begun to shine brilliantly...Again the life-giving breeze has wafted and souls have attained their desires and been delivered from the darkness of deprivation.  AB01917

It is now demonstrated that all their existent powers have contributed something toward the realization of this world war, even their so-called Christian religion has been made a pliable instrument for the promotion of war purposes.   ABU2181

The hosts of the Abha Kingdom and the legions of the Most Exalted Realm are successively rushing down from the heavenly realm. The ranks and multitudes of the peoples of the nether world are consecutively routed, condemned and broken.  AB02412

Darkness had encompassed all regions and the horizons had become darkened in all directions. Then the Ancient Morn breathed forth with the lights of the Greatest Name, whereupon the East and the West in their entirety became illumined.  AB11012

In all the worlds, who is the victor? Yazid or the noble 'Ali, the Jews or the promised Christ, the powerful Herod or John the chaste, the prophet Noah or the foolish people, the illustrious Abraham or the despised Nimrod, and so forth.  AB05570

Now this infinite divine bounty is like the morning twilight appearing from the Dawning-Place, and soon the Sun of Reality will shed such radiance that the world will become illumined and East and West will become brilliant and radiant.  AB01193

Though in these days of tribulation the winds of sedition have extinguished the lamp of the love of the All-Merciful in the breasts of men, yet God will cause it to be rekindled through His command, for verily He hath power over all things.   BH10033

The idolaters rush headlong toward the Evil One. Say: He dwelleth in the lowest depths of the fire. We have shown them who led them astray from the straight path that they might recognize him and seek for themselves a way of escape unto God.   BH04089

Soon these dark clouds will disperse and this dust will settle and the true dawn will shine forth and the real sun will spread its rays. The world will become the gardens of the All-Merciful and the earth will become the Most Glorious Paradise  AB02682

to break apart the ranks of the army of heedlessness, to arrange the spiritual battle lines, to organize the army of inner meanings, to raise high the banner of knowledge, to launch a mighty attack upon the forces of ignorance and unawareness   AB03192

Today the enemies are seen to have gained ascendancy over the friends. As ye have witnessed and heard, most cities and regions have fallen under the control of strangers, and the fire of sedition and corruption hath been kindled in most lands.   BH09265

This refers to the great disturbance which is to occur in that day -- the latter day. That those souls who occupy the highest stations shall be reverted to the lowest and the souls who occupy the lowest degrees shall be promoted to the highest.  ABU0585

except for souls who lay the foundation of eternal glory and the basis of comfort for the world of creation, and adorn the world with the light of the gift of the All-Merciful. Even the whispers of such souls remain forever permanent and endless.   AB00902

Under what tumultuous times the foundation of this divine structure was laid! In reality to bring the remains of the BAB from Persia and inter it in the unique building was the most difficult and at the same time the most triumphal work of the Cause.   ABU2782

That invisible power is the cause of all these outward activities. It moves the hearts. It rends the mountains. It administers the complicated affairs of the Cause. It inspires the friends. It dashes into a thousand pieces all the forces of opposition.  ABU2949

Out of the innumerable plays presented for the serious study or amusements of the people of every age, a master-drama is acted, all the characters of which fill most important roles, and every scene being a climax of absorbing interest to all mankind.   ABU2630

Even in the center of materialism, that is, Paris, the divine teachings have been established, and it is hoped that the spirit of holiness will overthrow the foundation of every devil, the lights of truth will shine forth, and the darkness will be dispelled.  AB08021

Europe, the most adorned of the continents, has progressed to the apex of refined material civilization. It is a beautifully formed body, - alas, that is has no soul! It is one of the most polished mirrors, - alas, that the sun of truth is not reflected in it!  ABU0541

See how the power of the Cause of God has created a tumult in the hearts and what a revolution it has produced. See how the aid and assistance of the Abha Beauty have reached us constantly and invariably the lights of victory have shone from the supreme horizon.   ABU2726

Today is the day of helplessness and supplication, for the oppressors of the earth have surrounded from all directions the party that is associated with the Truth. This fire of oppression will not be extinguished save through the power of God, exalted be His glory.  BH00263

The lights have shone forth and the mysteries have appeared and the verses have been sent down, yet the people remain in evident veils. The hidden treasure hath been revealed and the concealed secret hath appeared, yet most of the people are among the heedless ones.   BH03866

Despite this, the veil has so obscured vision that among the people of the world only a few are enlightened while all the rest remain captive to the darkness of the furnace. However, the rays of the Sun of Truth have become so brilliant that this darkness cannot endure.  AB11719

Religion is a brilliant light and a strong fortress for the protection and comfort of the people of the world. If the lamp of religion remains veiled, chaos will take place, the luminary of justice and of equity, and the sun of rest and security, will be deprived of light.  AB00245

The light of knowledge hath appeared, before which the darkness of every superstitious fancy will be annihilated. The hosts of the Supreme Concourse are descending to assist all those who rise up to serve their Lord, to subdue and gain the victory over the city of the hearts  ABU1091

The people of malice have stretched forth the hand of aggression, perpetrated injustices and acts of cruelty, and raised a clamor and cry that they might interrupt the life-giving breezes blowing from the paradise of Abha and conceal the lights shining from the Daystar of Truth.  AB02085

The Kingdom hath advanced with its hosts, retinue, armies and banners, and cast its waves upon the desert of the contingent world. It hath pitched its tents in the valley of existence with its forces and legions, and soon shall its spiritual armies seize the pillars of the world.  AB09623

Man is saved from the world of nature by the Light of God, otherwise there would be darkness upon darkness. All the prophets and seers have come that the world of humanity may be saved from the claws of nature and that they may transform the world of nature into a world of light.   ABU0807

"First of all we have to establish the fact that all human beings fall into only two categories: into spiritually oriented beings centred on God, and into materially-minded ungodly beings far removed and estranged from God, depending on the degree of their centrifugal development."   ABU0529

Let us pray that God will guide the souls, that he will rescue the "wolves" from their ferocity, so that they may become as lambs and as birds of peace and flock together. Thus will darkness disappear from the horizon of the world and the teachings of God illumine the East and the West.  ABU0013

Although at present dark clouds have obscured this sun of love, rest assured that the rays and heat of the Sun of Truth will eventually disperse these dark clouds, that a true, clear, and pure horizon will be reached, and the sun will continue to shine with utmost power, energy, and light  AB12264

The darkness of negligence shall not darken the light of truth, especially after it has set Africa and America ablaze. It may be possible and easy to block a spring, but what can be done about the sea? Cutting off the water of a stream is feasible, but how can one obstruct a mighty flood?   AB04689

Be not grieved by the fire of sedition and corruption that has been kindled through the hardness of men's hearts. I swear by the light of God's countenance, shining and manifest from the Most Exalted Horizon, these matters have been and are the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God.  BH05984

So many wars have been fought, so much blood has been shed, so many homes destroyed, so many cities laid waste - yet still they are not sated with war, still they have not awakened to see that hatred and enmity destroy the edifice of humanity, while love and fellowship bring peace to mankind.  ABU0359

How devoted they are to darkness. Even now they are running away from light. Like a thief who always runs away from the light, and who wishes for darkness upon darkness. Why? Because light reveals his wickedness. The owner of the house wants it always to be lighted, but the thief wants darkness.  ABU2021

But out of all this impenetrable darkness there rises the beaming of Light of Faith and out of these uproars and wild confusions one hears the Voice of Peace. Above this reign of Terror there is the Sovereignty of Truth and beyond this welter of carnage one sees the resplendent era of brotherhood.  ABU0615

The East hath verily been illumined with the light of the Kingdom. Ere long will this same light shed a still greater illumination upon the West. Then will the hearts of its people be vivified through the potency of the teachings of God and their souls be set aglow by the undying fire of His love.  AB11311

People are exerting [great efforts] to extinguish the Light of God. They have written and will write many polemics, as they recently wrote in Tihran. However, they do not understand that these polemics will only serve to propagate the Word of God. They will not be able to deny the Sun its radiance.   ABU2464

This enmity and hatred that exists between these two races, black and white, is very dangerous and without doubt will eventually end in bloodshed - unless the power of the Word of God and the breaths of the Holy Spirit and the teachings of Baha'u'llah spread and bring healing between these two groups  AB02915

This Cause is assisted by Divine Power and nothing can prevent its progress. It is like the sun; all the clouds of the world cannot prevent its shining. Therefore, I hope these clouds of differences which sometimes appear will disappear entirely and that the Sun of Truth will shine most brilliantly.   ABU1190

Now that the Sun of Reality has risen and the lights of the Most Great Luminary have shone upon Turkistan, the breeze of favor is wafting and the divine fragrances are perfuming the nostrils. Turkistan must become a rose garden and Transoxiana must receive its portion and share from the Most Great Sea.  AB01867

The sea of materialism is at flood tide and all the nations of the world are immersed in it. It is my hope that the fish will rise to the surface, so that they may behold other wondrous aspects of creation; for the people are like unto the fish swimming in the deep - ignorant of the rest of the universe.   ABU1290

Rather, this heavenly tree becomes more firmly rooted day by day, puts forth branches, displays blossoms, and yields goodly fruits. It is like the good tree mentioned in the verse: A goodly word is as a goodly tree, whose root is firmly fixed, and its branches reach to heaven, giving its fruit at all times.  AB01687

all regions of the world have been consumed and inflamed in the fire of bloodshed. Yet the friends of God, through the blessedness of the divine teachings, have passed through the days of war in Asia, America and Africa in perfect peace and security, protected from all calamities and full of joy and delight.  AB00937

The more material education advances, the more competitive is the race in aggression and injustice. But spiritual education is the cause of competition in praiseworthy actions and the acquisition of human perfections. We hope that day by day these injustices will diminish and the spiritual virtues increase.   ABU3318

The world is the arena for the horsemen of truth and the battlefield for the hosts of the Kingdom of the King of Oneness, that they may break the mighty ranks of misguidance and repel the assault of ignorance, and that the hosts of light may attack with piercing flames and vanquish the armies of darkest night  AB03709

Could these fevers in the world of the mind, these fires of war and hate, of resentment and malice among the nations, this aggression of peoples against peoples, which have destroyed the tranquillity of the whole world ever be made to abate, except through the living waters of the teachings of God? No, never!   AB00829

These enemies are agitating both sides, that is, they are stirring up the white race against the colored race and the colored race against the white race. But of this the Americans are submerged in the sea of ignorance. They will regret it. But of what use will their regret be after the destruction of America?  ABU2309

Until thou becomest aware of the falsehood of the past, thou shalt not bear witness to the truth of this wondrous Day. The heedless people must be awakened that they may recognize the daysprings of conjecture and fancy of the past and future, and may hold fast to the straight path and the firm and mighty cord.   BH02097

The abomination of desolation is the one who appears and tries to destroy the Truth and who makes some changes in the teachings of God. He will destroy the foundation of the teachings of God from among the people. His intention is destruction, and it is divided into two parts, one physical and the other spiritual.  ABU2914

Since this is how matters stand, grave events will certainly occur. Iran will find no peace and Iranians will attain no success or prosperity. Rather, difficulties will increase day by day. At times sedition will arise in the north and strangers will seek familiarity; at times in the south winds of discord will blow.  AB12299

Although invisible, yet it works its way through the hearts of the people, impelling them to rise and serve their fellowmen. It is the most irresistible, irrepressible energy in the world of creation. In a twinkling of an eye it removes the most insurmountable barriers and defeats the most determined army of opposition.   ABU1757

Those who would have men believe that religion is their own private property once more bring their efforts to bear against the Sun of Truth: they resist the Command of God; they invent calumnies, not having arguments against it, neither proofs. They attack with masked faces, not daring to come forth into the light of day.  ABU0181

Our own 'war' is good because it conquers all. When a crown of thorns was placed on the head of Christ, He saw with His own eyes the crowns of kings under His feet. Now, when I look, I see all the powers and nations defeated, scattered and lost in the wilderness while the Cause of God is victorious over all and subdues all.  ABU1438

The divine champion, the Word of God, entered the arena, routed the army of ignorance, and with the rays of the Sun of Truth scattered the hosts of darkness. This radiant effulgence shone forth like the dawn, and the celestial Sun cast its rays. Day by day this light grows brighter and the darkness of ignorance is dispersed.  AB09376

Consider now how humanity is drowned like animals in the sea of nature. No trace of the human world remains. The people of the world must be fair - can anything except the teachings of Baha'u'llah, which are rays of the Sun of Truth, overcome this darkest night and cause the bright morn to dawn, making the world a rose garden?   AB00138

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, that He may protect him and protect His loved ones from the evil of His enemies who have cast righteousness behind their backs and embraced wickedness and been consumed by the fire of greed and passion and have exchanged trustworthiness for treachery and truth for falsehood and calumny.  BH10616

The darkness of enmity has encompassed the world and the swords of cruelty and oppression are in the hands of the misguided. There is hardly a fair-minded soul to be found anywhere nor any who does not oppress others in some form. Only those who are most greedy and most ruthless, most bloody and most brutal seem to command respect.  AB00951

The ignorant people and the indolent masses imagined that the accumulated clouds and piled-up mists would darken the Sun at the zenith of bounties and conceal it in the west of decline. But with one burning effulgence from the Dawning-Place of the unseen Kingdom, He so dissolved and scattered those dense clouds that minds were amazed.   AB03004

"The Truth hath secretly assisted the one who was occupied with abasement. The world hath changed, the mountain moveth, the sun speaketh, the vibration of the manifestation hath set Mount Sinai in motion. Glory be to God! It is as though the Resurrection is at hand and the Hour hath appeared. The one who led astray hath become a guide."  BH03295

Soon you shall observe how the holy fragrances encompass the East and the West, and how the banner of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha waves throughout all regions. The faces of the righteous shall shine with the effulgence of light, and the spirituality of the chosen ones shall triumph over the materiality of the wicked. Then shall the believers rejoice.  AB03240

Tremors have seized the tribes, and turmoil hath encompassed the dwellers of earth, save whom God hath willed. That which hath appeared hath transcended the power of comprehension. The King of Names hath astounded the manifestations of might and wealth, and realms which their men had imagined to be free from decline now show evident cracks.   BH00309

Material civilization alone does not suffice and does not become the means of acquiring spiritual virtues. Rather, it leads to an increase in wars and disputes and becomes the cause of bloodshed and ruin. Despite all this, it is surprising that divine civilization has been completely forgotten and the people are constantly submerged in a sea of materialism.   ABU1982

O joy! The darkness of separation hath passed away and the day of reunion hath come! O gladness and delight for the people of faithfulness, and sorrow and extinction for the perfidious! Calamity upon calamity hath overtaken them, and they have no refuge or protection from the chastisement of thy Lord - evil indeed is the abode of those who break the Covenant!  AB06548

Those around us are bent upon destroying the foundations of humanity while we are intent on raising the edifice of humankind. Most of those around us are striving to kill while we are looking for ways to give life to people. The differing factions and conflicting sects wield sharp swords against each other but we have raised an olive branch, we offer flowers.   AB04763

Since creation the world has been controlled by wicked people who have oppressed the good people. They have tortured the messengers of God but in this time, thorough the powers of Europe and America, justice has prevailed, oppression has been suppressed. The world has been put in a better condition and thus the wicked will be burned and have no power nor influence.   ABU0718

The world of existence was darkness, and the contingent world was in blindness and gloom. Darkness was piled upon darkness, and error upon error. Light was wholly absent, and bewilderment and confusion were present. Then did the resplendent dawn break, and the brilliant Sun rent asunder the veil. The light of truth shone forth, and the glad tidings of union arrived.  AB08712

Divine power hath encompassed all mankind, though this encompassing is now veiled by reason of the veils of the people. Ere long shall the Hand of Power rend asunder these veils and shrouds, and the faces of His loved ones shall shine forth like brilliant stars throughout all regions, and their station shall become evident and manifest unto all the peoples of the world.  BH05647

Despite this, people are still captive in the sleep of heedlessness, clinging to the metaphorical and averse to reality, and still so immersed in carnal desires that even the trumpet of Israfil would not awaken them. Surely this heedlessness, ingratitude for blessings, and lack of awakening will cause grief and hardship, war and strife, and bring about loss and calamity.  AB04275

For this pitch darkness a dispeller is needed, and for these devastating trials a remover is required. For darkness there can be no dispeller save light, and for the sorrowful darkness of night there can be no remover save the luminous lamp. Thus did the Lord kindle the lamp of guidance, and the heat of its blazing fire consumed the veil of separation from sincere seekers.  AB08850

The regions of the world, cities and villages in the East and West are encompassed by the darkness of ignorance and rebellion - the darkness of unknowing, the darkness of pride, the darkness of self and desire have combined. These triple darknesses, layer upon layer, have formed, leaving souls bewildered, wandering, and drowning in the sea of heedlessness and forgetfulness.  AB09328

With the appearance of truth the point of Opposition raises its head. The former gains signal victory, the other goes into crushing defeat; the first upraises the standard of guidance, the other unfurls the banner of error; One is divine revelation, another is satanic suggestion; the first leads us into the paradise of Peace, the second hurls us headlong into the hell of war.  ABU3163

It is a mirror in the utmost of transparency but a thousand times alas! that the rays of the Sun of Reality are not reflected thereon! It is a tree most verdant and elegant but alas! it produces no fruits. It is a flower with great delicacy and loveliness but how pitiable! it lacks sweet fragrance. Outwardly it is very progressive but spiritually it has no motion whatsoever.   ABU1673

"And from that which they smelt in the fire for the sake of ornaments ariseth a foam like unto it. Thus doth God set forth truth and falsehood. As for the foam, it passeth away as doth all that is worthless, while that which profiteth mankind remaineth on the earth." "Then He states that those doubts and intrigues have no permanence and vanish away, but the divine bounty endures."   ABU1605

In this Most Great Resurrection, when the services to the Ancient Beauty have set the heart of the world in motion, a group of the frozen and dead have imagined they can prevent the Most Great Sea from its advancing waves, or deprive the Most Glorious Orb of its dawn-time rays, or deny the horizons of nations from the continuous outpourings of this daybreak. Vain indeed are their deeds.   AB07585

The kind shepherds have turned suddenly into ferocious wolves, tearing the sheep and the lambs into pieces. Mercy has hidden its face; Love has covered her countenance; Sympathy does not stretch forth its arms; Affection has flown away; Truth finds itself a stranger among a large company of hypocritical admirers and Peace does not envisage herself in the clear mirror of the pure hearts.   ABU0099

All who dwell on earth, throughout the days and nights, beseeched God for the meeting with the Manifestation of His Self and the Dawning-Place of His verses. Yet when those days appeared and the countenance of the Promised One shone forth from the Horizon of Revelation, all denied Him save a few. Such is the state of the people - they have forsaken the Truth and become worshippers of idols.  BH09436

"We are fighting for Peace, Brotherhood, unity of mankind; we are fighting to break your combinations of powers, to hurl down your despotic thrones, to regain the authority that you have usurped and assumed as the inherent rights of autocracy; we are fighting to promote the ideals of democracy throughout the expanse of the earth; we are fighting to insure love and brotherliness to generations yet unborn."  ABU0132

Although in one sense this servant observes that just as it is, is beloved, as was said before: "Nothing in creation is more perfect than what is." Blessed are the sincere ones. Today is the day of the sincere ones. Today is the day of those drawn nigh. They drink from the cups of recognition despite the people of creation, and they partake of the Kawthar of life, hidden from those who have denied the All-Merciful.   BH00969

The foolish and ignorant ones imagined that due to the calamities of Yazd the fire of Moses was extinguished and the spirit of Christ was cut off. Far, far from it! Rather, the lamp of the Cause became more brilliant and the dawning star of the love of God displayed the radiance of the sun. "They desire to extinguish God's light with their mouths, but God refuses to do aught save perfect His light, though the infidels abhor it."  AB01085

Today the lovers have a melody, and the City of Love is illumined and purified by the sweet and holy breaths of the friends of God, exalted be His glory. In truth I say these wrongs shall not be lost. The fire of hatred shall leave its traces until the end that hath no end, that all may become aware of the tyrannies perpetrated by the manifestations of iniquity and wickedness against the dawning-places of righteousness and piety.  BH01085

It is impossible for the different nations and parties which exist now - such as socialists, Bolshevists, the extremists or radicals, strikers and those who wish for absolute authority, to leave these dissensions and be united - save through BAHA'O'LLAH'S teachings. The teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH are like the sun and these dissensions are like the darkness. This darkness cannot be dispelled except through the teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH.  ABU1237

"Today the nations of the world are self-engaged, occupied with mortal and transitory accomplishments, consumed by the fires of passion and self. Self is dominant; enmity and animosity prevail. Nations and peoples are thinking only of their worldly interests and outcomes. The clash of war and din of strife are heard among them. But the friends of the Blessed Perfection have no thoughts save the thoughts of heaven and the love of God."  ABU0543

It is medically proven that from the abundance of dead bodies and fiery explosions the air changes, and from the change in air numerous diseases result and spread to other regions. Certainly millions of souls killed on the battlefield must change the air, and from the change in air diseases arise. Similarly, from psychological disturbances severe agitation results in humans, and certainly from severe agitation various diseases are born.   AB02963

Now the Lord has cast a glance of favor, and the witness of heavenly bounty has appeared in the land of Iran. The Sun of Truth has risen and cast its rays of grace upon that country, and heavenly teachings have spread and a divine faith has come forth. The hope is that the rays of this sun will make the land of Iran like the celestial realm - that is, souls will be educated who, like bright stars, will shine in the heights of that country.   AB00803

All the territories of Europe are repositories of combustible materials. That is, beneath the ground of all Europe it is as though there were arsenals and ammunition depots. It requires but a single spark or flame for these inflammatory materials to suddenly explode. Therefore, O nations and governments of the world, strive with all your being, cry out and lament, weep and implore, that perchance, God willing, you may deliver the world of humanity from this peril.  ABU0353

Consider the Russia-Japanese war. A country as powerful as Russia must at least be able to win a small victory, [yet they were completely denied.] They had mined the sea expecting to sink Japanese warships, but instead the same mines sank the largest Russian ship, carrying her highest-ranking Captains and military officers. Notice that their plans were not in congruence with the predestined decree and, no matter how well plans are drawn, preordained destination is supreme.  ABU1134

What ignorance is this, that a handful of dust should seek to eclipse the stars of heaven, that a few bats should pursue the concealment of the rays of the sun, that contemptible sparrows should seek the abasement of the soaring vulture of the ethereal realm, that lowly worms should seek to prevent the sweet fragrance of Paradise, that abject kites should desire the defeat of the glorious eagle, and that a weak gnat should covet the throne of Solomon, the king of existence.   AB06352

The moral effect of the expenditures of these colossal sums of money for military purposes is just as deteriorating as the actual war and its train of dreadful carnage and horrors. The ideal and floral forces of the contending parties become barbaric and bestial, the spiritual powers are stunted and the laws of divine civilization are disregarded. Such a financial drain ossifies the veins and muscles of the body-politic, and congeals the delicate sensibilities of the spirit.   ABU0600

Praise to be God, that the gloomy nights of ignorance have flitted away across the receding ages, and the bright dawn of intelligence and wisdom is becoming visible. Praise to be God, that the cold winter of fanaticism and bigotry, with its chilling hand and irrational heterodoxy has come to an end, and the soul refreshing springtime of the imperishable flowers and hyacinths of universal love and toleration, has dawned, perfuming all the nostrils with the sweet odors of trust and confidence.   ABU0644

You observed what severe trials and tribulations befell this Cause in Iran. The Iranians thought this Cause had human foundations and that through government and people's opposition, its mention would be erased and forgotten from the pages of hearts. They did not understand that opposition, tribulation, killing of souls and great martyrdom would increase the influence of God's Cause and exalt the Word of God. Therefore the more they tried to extinguish this divine lamp, the brighter it became.   ABU0707

Soon will the words of the deniers and epistles of the polytheists be spread abroad. By the one true God! In the sight of those who gaze upon the Most Glorious Horizon, all that they have written has been and will be devoid of the garment of true meaning, deprived of the robe of acceptance, and bereft of the fragrances of truth. When the veils of fancy were rent asunder by the fingers of divine power, the words of the manifestations of Satan appeared more insignificant than the words of children.   BH02199

The bats of darkness were greatly saddened and deprived, and the ravens have lamented and languished. Some said: The day is reversed. Others stated: The nightingale is a crazed lover. Yet others said: The fate of the candle is to be extinguished. And some said: The longing desire of the meadow of truth is to love the beginning, and its end is to be beaten with a stick. Consequently, darkness is good and light is bad; the rose-garden and meadow are worthless, and the dunghill is eternal and endureth forever.  AB04343

Erelong wilt thou behold the flush of daybreak spreading from out the Most Exalted Realm, and the morn encompassing all regions. It will put the dark to flight, and the gloom of night will fade and pass, and the bright brow of the Faith shine forth, and the Day-Star rise and overspread the world. On that day will the faithful rejoice, and the steadfast be blissful; then will the slanderers take themselves off, and the waverers be blotted out, even as deepest shadows fall away at the first light of the breaking dawn.   AB00083

It is certain that spirituality will defeat materialism, that the heavenly will subdue the human, and that through divine education the masses of mankind generally will take great steps forward in all degrees of life -- except for those who are blind and deaf and mute and dead. How can such as they understand the light? Though the sun's rays illumine every darkest corner of the globe, still the blind can have no share in the glory, and though the rain of heavenly mercy come down in torrents over all the earth, no shrub or flower will bloom from a barren land.  AB00740

Grieve not if none be found to accept the crimson wine proffered by Thy snow-white hand and to seize it in the name of Thy Lord, the Most Exalted, the Most High--He Who hath appeared again in His name, the Most Glorious. Leave this people unto themselves, and repair unto the Tabernacle of majesty and glory, wherein Thou shalt encounter a people whose faces shine as brightly as the sun in its noontide splendour, and who praise and extol their Lord in this Name that hath arisen, in the plenitude of might and power, to assume the throne of independent sovereignty.  BH00007

Do we not see in these days that the banner of oppression and destruction is held aloft and the government[s] and the nations of the world have girded up the loins of endeavor to kill and shed the blood of their own brothers and lay waste cities and villages. The world of humanity has become the world of the beasts of prey, nay rather a greater ferocity exists. Human susceptibilities are trampled under foot, justice and fairness have lost their pristine significances. Such cruel acts are perpetrated by man that cannot be attributed even to the ferocious beasts.  ABU0599

Physical forces may resist earthly armies but cannot contend with heavenly hosts. As has been proven thousands of times - the rebellious Thamud tribe were fierce enemies but could not prevent the power of Salih; and though the people of 'Ad were oppressive, still the spiritual sword of Hud was not sheathed and the kindled fire of God was not extinguished; and though the wretched Nimrod made the clash of weapons echo to the horizons, he could not resist the glorious Abraham; and though the misguided Egyptians arranged their army in ranks, they could not wage war against Moses   AB00941

At a time when humanity was surrounded by the darkness of estrangement and alienation, when dissension, hatred, enmity and ignorance stalked the world, when negligence, selfishness and the rapacity of wild beasts had become common among men, when the horizon of the world had become so dim that everyone had forgotten about the existence of light and thought darkness an essential condition of humanity, something from which it was absolutely impossible to be free, suddenly the light of truth did shine, the horizon of the world was illumined and its rays were spread in the east and the west.  AB04162

The standards of divine unity shall be raised high, and the banners of the signs of your Glorious Lord shall wave upon the lofty edifice. The foundation of doubts shall be shaken, the veil of darkness shall be rent asunder, the dawn of clear proofs shall break forth, and the Kingdom of earth and heaven shall be illumined with the lights of His signs. You shall see the banners of the various factions brought low and their standards reversed, faces effaced and transformed, eyes vacant and sunken, hearts trembling and failing, houses empty and desolate, bodies weak and decaying, and souls plunging into the abyss.  AB00265

Were the world not enlightened with the coming of the prophets, were there not the teachings of the heavenly books, were there not the appearance of the celestial rose-garden, were there not the effulgence of the Love of God; the world of humanity would have been the world of animality; nay rather lower and baser. The holy Manifestations appear, the fragrances of God are diffused;- so that the world of humanity might be distinguished from the animal Kingdom; the realm of darkness be transformed into the sphere of light, the gloomy earth be changed into the celestial universe and the carnally-minded become endowed with godlike sentiments.   ABU1398

The signs of divine power are appearing moment by moment from the Abha Kingdom in such a way that minds and souls are left bewildered... Were it not for the onslaughts of the Covenant-breakers and the schemes, corruption and deception of the violators - that is, if this great blow had not occurred - today the Cause of God would be manifest and evident in the world and universe like the sun. Yet despite this, through divine assistance and grace, the Sun of Truth will shine forth from the Kingdom of Mystery with such radiance that soon these dense clouds and dark vapors will completely dissolve and its brilliant rays will illumine East and West.   AB03321

The forces of good and evil have raised aloft their banners in the world of humanity and, in the arena of tests and trials, are locked in battle. The light of good shineth forth from the countenances of the friends of God, even as the darkness of evil hath become manifested in the gloomy faces of the haughty and the proud. The faces of the former are the dawning place of the light of guidance, whereas the latter are the depths of utter darkness; the one is manifest light, the other is enmity, malice and spite. The former is the temple of the spirit, the latter the body of death itself. How great is the difference, how clear and evident is the distinction.   AB06257

Now the wisdom of this American disaster is not known to the many people of this generation, because they are too much absorbed in the immediate sufferings and hardships that it has brought in its train. When the flood is subsided and the people shake off the temporary gloom, they will then realize that after this destruction there is construction; after this suffering there will be blessing. After this death there will be life. After this darkness there will be light. After this loss there will be profit. After this devastation there will be upbuilding. After this havoc there will be prosperity. After this failure there will be success and after this war of elements there will be glorious peace and greater civilization.   ABU1022

Just at this time a mad wave of evil habits, immoral acts, shameless customs and most lewd representations is sweeping over some parts of the world, it seems that the very gates of hell are flung wide and the ghastly fiends of unbridled desires, dissolution, sensualism, unchastity and debauchery are set loose, desecrating the sanctity of the homes and polluting the clear stream of morality. Now the friends of God must do their utmost to purify the world from the stains of these licentious habits. They must master their innate God-given forces and strike at the very root of these evil deeds and social scourge. They are the champions of a heavenly light, a clean pure life, a wholesome joyous life, a just proportioned artistic life according to the ideas of God and not of man.   ABU1084

O Sun! Emerge from the eclipse of fancy and desire and behold the Most Luminous, Most Manifest, Most Glorious Orb in the pole of the heaven of eternity with such radiant lights that were all the atoms of existence, both seen and unseen, to reflect but the least ray from the rays of its light, verily would they all attain unto the cry "Verily I am God!" O Sun! Behold on one hand the radiance of His grace's lights which, with a single effulgence, hath adorned all the heavens of the unseen majesty with suns of glory and honored the mountains of holy oneness with the appearance of hidden mines. And on the other hand, the piercing meteor of His [presence] hath demolished all the thrones of loftiness and elevation, and cast down the exalted suns of the heaven of grandeur to the dust of abasement.   BH00637

Today from all the countries of the world discordant and harsh voices are being raised which have a jarring and disagreeable effect upon the hearts. Above and beyond this dissonant babel, the harmonious melody of the Kingdom of Abha is poured forth by the Bird of Paradise to calm the contentious spirits and soothe the wrangling hearts. How sad it is that one is forced to listen to the strain of the martial music sung by the soldiers as they march, column after column disappearing forever in the darkness of the night of destruction! Will they not lend their ears to the celestial concert played by the Angels of Peace? Will they not hear the lively carols and orchestral lays of the thrushes of the gardens of conciliation? Will they not listen to the stirring hymns and moving anthems of the glorious congregation of the servants of humanity?   ABU0504

When the nightingale singeth in the meadows of eternity, and the dove of holiness warbleth in the forests of grandeur, when the lights of divine assistance appear in the midmost heart of the heavens, and the flames of oneness shine in the lamps of the chosen ones, when the ways are paved and the paths are straightened; when the Trumpet of rapture bloweth and the Bugle of life soundeth; when the hosts of the Abha Kingdom hasten forth and the chargers of the angels of the celestial concourse are spurred onward, when the banner of the Covenant is raised and the sail of Testament and concord is unfurled--on that day, thou wilt behold the steadfast ones in Paradise, sheltered beneath His outspread shadow, in a station of praise and glory and in manifest grace; and thou wilt see the dismayed ones in the shadow of a black smoke, in an evil and narrow abode, and in sorrow and loss until the day they are brought again to life.   AB03292


"In the world of existence, pause (or discontinuation of progress) marks the beginning of fall and decadence. for instance, as long as the bird soars or moves upward in the air, it is in progress. But no sooner it pauses than it begins to descend."   ABU1474

The congress of The Hague is follows: The wine sellers call a meeting so that they may discuss the evils of wine and remove from the world the drinking of wine; yet their own vocation is wine selling. Nations who are constantly thinking either of worldly conquest, the expansion of their own dominion or waging war upon their contemporaries, send ministers and representatives to the congress of The Hague to discuss the problem of universal peace and legislate regulations for the prevention of war!  AB07144

Change and transformation have overtaken the world.   BH09323

A most wonderful and thrilling motion will appear in the world of existence  AB11113

The League assembly's thoughts are scattered among numerous matters and they do not have the opportunity for proper effort and endeavor as they should, nor is any result expected in the future...the League assembly clearly has no proper foundation. In this case, remaining in those parts will yield no results.  AB02147

The pillars of the earth are quaking and the foundations of humanity are trembling  AB10436

This is the time of rising and resurrection, and the moment of passing and blowing.   AB05838

There is no remedy for this chaos and revolution and turmoil except the holy breaths.  AB12475

Yet from another perspective it has separated brother from brother and father from son   ABU1251

The time will come when this material civilization will be infused with divine civilization.  ABU2862

Earthquakes have appeared and the tribes have lamented, and the people are in manifest agitation.  BH07993

The Cause of God is like the Sea. It will not accept a dead body, but throws it back upon the shore.  ABU0785

humanity is not yet at peace and will still endure hardship until order is established and comfort achieved   AB05171

At present their social and intellectual lives are in a chaotic condition and on the verge of disintegration.   ABU2967

There is no such thing as self-development. Growth only comes by working for others. The time as prophesied from all time is short - very short. How is the Holy Spirit to be recognised by the world? A great mass of people all over the world who have united as brothers in sorrow, suffering and affliction, will be persecuted until their cries reach the very gates of heaven. Then Angels of Light will arise and these people will receive the Message I came to bring and have held so long, waiting for more sorrow and suffering. When these souls are awakened - watch the results. Turkey was freed in one night; the world will also change in the same way, not from a Baha'i movement, but from a world movement. Many of the Bahais in name will steal away disappointed, but be ye firm and never let go. ABU1192

this Cause whereby every firm edifice hath been shaken, the mountains have been crushed, and souls have been thunderstruck.  BH02699

What carpet hath not been rolled up, what edifice hath not been destroyed, what glory hath not come to an end, and what sun hath not set!  BH00592

The fire of suppositions and idle fancies has encompassed the world, and supreme abasement has seized the people, yet none are aware of it.  BH08750

Let the furnace of cruelty become the rose garden of faithfulness, and the dunghill of enmity become the rosebush of love and spirituality.   AB05556

The world is in turmoil and whatsoever hath been recorded and set down by the Pen of Revelation in the Sacred Tablets is now manifest and evident   BH03856

The social unrest in all countries, the growing religious scepticism prophesied as antecedent to the millennium, will set aflame the whole of Europe  ABU3492

Be not grieved by the world's differences and the dispersion of affairs. Soon there shall appear what hath been ordained for thee from the Pen of Revelation.   BH05368

All the peoples of the world are opposed to each other and day by day their misunderstanding increases. This is why the fire of war has reached to the heavens.  AB02082

The earth has periodic waves like unto the waves of the Sea. The rising of one earth-wave covers under it all these wars, revolutions, contentions and strives.  ABU2008

The East and West have been stirred into motion by the breezes from the rose garden of mysteries, yet the Iranians are still captive in the sleep of heedlessness  AB12605

It is impossible to swim against the current of Niagara. Teaching the Truth is like building bridges by which humanity may cross over the current which threatens.  ABU2368

strive day and night that God may breathe a new life into the body of Iran, so that an extraordinary power may manifest itself in the fabric of Iran and its people  AB06630

However all these conditions shall change. The power of the Word of God shall influence the hearts to such an extent that not a trace of these thoughts shall remain  ABU2438

However, afterwards, the number of peace-loving people will grow considerably, and the commotions, uproars and the mighty tumult will precipitate [universal] peace.   ABU2714

Every Universal Dispensation has two great events occur: collection and separation. That is, it will divide the father from the mother and the brother from the sister.  ABU1143

Then shall you behold the body of creation made resplendent and, decked forth in the utmost comeliness and beauty, revealed even as the dawning place of the light of God.  AB06633


if the teachings of Baha'u'llah achieve complete diffusion in Europe, all this oppression and bloodshed and destruction and transgression and hatred and enmity will be removed   AB00737

The day is approaching, when ye shall witness how, through the splendor of the Faith of Baha'u'llah, the West will have replaced the East, radiating the light of Divine Guidance.  AB11552

The day is approaching when We will have rolled up the world and all that is therein, and spread out a new order in its stead. He, verily, hath power over all things.   BH05544

I hope that through the intensity of the heat of the Great Luminary, religious prejudices, racial prejudices, patriotic prejudices and political prejudices will melt away like snow   AB02094

The teachings of His Holiness Baha'u'llah are today the spirit of life, the means of Peace and Reconciliation, the cause of Amity and Union and the promoter of the Oneness of Mankind.  AB01489

The confirmations of the Ancient Beauty are in every moment the intimate companion, and the victory of the Greatest Name in every breath conquers the hearts of the people of the world.  AB02718


All powers are impotent and limited and all created things are captive under the law of nature except for the divine power and spiritual civilization which manifest extraordinary effects   ABU3297

The thoughts of human brotherhood are permeating all regions. New ideals are stirring the depths of hearts and a new spirit of universal consciousness is being profoundly felt by all men.  ABU2682


The world and its condition will change to such a degree and the Baha'i Cause will prevail to such an extent that nothing but a remnant - like these pillars - will remain of the previous order.   ABU3468

This old world of ours is undergoing undreamed of changes and revolutions. It is in a transitional state, shedding off its old skin and taking into itself new ligaments and building up new tissues.   ABU2497

"the world has become disordered, dark and confused due to corrupt morals, evil intentions, the self-worship of peoples and nations, and the base aspirations of the great ones and nobles of the world"  AB00607

When the light of His Essence shone forth from the lamp of oneness, both the horizons and the souls were illumined, and this dark world of dust became the dawning-place of the signs of the All-Merciful.  AB09706

"God willing, the world of humanity will find rest; the existing competition between the powers may pass away. Thank God we are free from all these questions. His Holiness Baha'u'llah has emancipated us."  ABU0913

Praise to be God, the gloomy clouds of war have been partly dissipated from the horizon of the world. The hope is entertained that gradually they will utterly vanish and rest and comfort will be established.  AB02063

As soon as war is declared in any part of the world, all human attention is directed toward it; commerce and the machinery of nations are paralyzed; the whole world thrown into a condition of grave uncertainty.  ABU0125












This century is pregnant with the most mighty and world-reforming events. Now it is going through the painful throes of a new birth. The body of the world must go through these tortures and agonies,- so that the beautiful babes of universal ideals may be born on the arena of existence. If a person desires to comprehend the wisdom of the present day events he must think of the past occurrences and realize how their true significances appeared years afterwards.  ABU0621

The dross of nations has seized them; the greatest elixir is required. O Wise One! Has the crown of victory such power as to transform diverse elements in a single thing and bring them to the station of pure gold?  BH01234

You observe what turmoil the world is in and what agitation grips the people of the world. A heavenly power is needed to dispel this turmoil and agitation, for this mighty matter cannot be realized through human powers  AB04069

The birds of the meadow have struck up such a melody that they have raised an uproar throughout all regions and created a commotion in the world of existence. Despite this song, the obstinate people are still in slumber.  AB10909

One of the instruments which will bring about universal peace is this very war, so that all the people might be disgusted with this confusion of the war, and that all the world of humanity might be inclined toward Peace.  ABU2393

Such differences as between the wolf and the sheep, for instance, between light and darkness, water and fire, are the cause of enmity. Water extinguishes fire in the same way that religious differences cause annihilation.   ABU1199

These disturbances and tempests are like waves - they come and go, but the sea will ultimately find tranquility and calm. These bitter times, more bitter than poison, shall pass; once again times sweet as sugar shall come.  AB10937

"Sometimes a stupendous, unforeseen calamity results from the means intended for peace and quiet; and sometimes calamity leads to tranquility and rest, confusion precedes composure, and a destruction results in rebuilding."  ABU0279

Armies like waves are continuous and tumultuous forces are successive. With this overwhelming might and resplendent majesty and conquering strength and perfect power, assuredly soon "necks shall be humbled and voices hushed."  AB02412

Now everywhere there are strikes. It is very strange- It is necessary that all the nations and peoples should make laws and regulations. At the end all the nations will be united so that no one can break those laws and regulations.  ABU1004


On one side the attacks of the enemies from within, on another side the onslaught of the adversaries from without, still on another side the disunity among the friends.   AB04248

this ship is always in the mighty ocean with continuous and successive waves, sometimes intense and sometimes mild. But calm and tranquility are impossible and unattainable. Rather, these are necessary aspects of the work and nothing new.  AB12175


Now the flood of destruction hath reached its crest. From now on there will be a period of construction. This plain will be built and will become inhabited by a happy people. It will not take a long time this prediction will become fulfilled!   ABU1001

The Call of God when raised, breathed a new life into the body of mankind, and infused a new spirit into the whole creation. It is for this reason that the world hath been moved to its depths, and the hearts and consciences of men been quickened.  AB11291



Although the booming cannons and the terrific noises of machine guns had thrown the world into utter commotion and earthquake in Europe and America, the voices of the members of this community were raised, encouraging men to the ideal of universal peace.   AB03887

The world and its people are in a state of excitement and turmoil and the foundation of all things is trembling. The eyes of the people of discernment have been opened and enlightened and the conscience of those understanding has bloomed like a rose garden.  AB02272

The spiritual brotherhood which is enkindled and established through the breaths of the Holy Spirit unites nations and removes the cause of warfare and strife. It transforms mankind into one great family and establishes the foundations of the oneness of humanity.  ABU0161


Destroy the root of conflict and strife; abandon imitations and prejudices which lead to cruelty, so that you may acknowledge the Truth and the light of the oneness of humanity may shine brilliant and manifest as the sun; the standard of universal peace be hoisted  ABU1357

When thou dost consider all phenomena, thou wilt see that every created thing hath come into being through the mingling of many elements, and once this collectivity of elements is dissolved, and this harmony of components is dissevered, the life form is wiped out.  AB00143

Those who are endued with spiritual insight see in th[is] small chapter a small portrayal of the present upheaval in all parts of the world for it demonstrates the depth of wisdom and divine perception of the founder of Islam. Many Koranic commentators have written pages after page[s] on the interpretation of this chapter referring their exegesis to the day of resurrection. We are now in the Cycle of resurrection and one of its manifold phases is the Universal War.  ABU0805

As these laws are in conformity with the demands of the time, they will unfailingly prevail, although they will be implemented gradually. Everything can be prevented or resisted except the demands of the time. The time is ripe for the governments to remedy these ills.  ABU1663

When you scatter a seed in the earth, that seed decomposes and becomes annihilated beneath the soil, yet that very annihilation is the cause of its permanence, that dispersion leads to gathering, and that dissolution results in the formation of great abundant harvests.  AB01795

After this War, the minds and understandings [of people] will have expanded. Peace-lovers and peace-makers will grow throughout all corners of the globe. This War is the harbinger of universal peace. It is the greatest instrument of universal peace, its greatest catalyst.   ABU2319

There is a recondite wisdom and divine prescience in all these universal revolutions and upheavals. God is working out His Plan through all these sweeping organic changes, destructive social cataclysms and the overthrow and downfall of all the tenacious old maxims and ideas.  ABU0929

Today all parties in the world are in conflict and struggle with each other - religious strife, sectarian strife, racial strife, national strife, political strife, commercial strife, industrial strife, strife over pride - truly this war is constant and never ceases or diminishes.   AB02186

All the visible, material events are interrelated with invisible spiritual forces. The infinite phenomena of creation are interdependent with each other as the many links in a chain. When certain links become rusty they are broken by unseen forces to be replaced by newer and better ones.   ABU1022

"These things must happen. The clouds will not gather moisture from the sea until the wind blows. Clouds must gather and rain fall and storms appear, or there will be no spring; then we should have no flowers, no fruit, no blessings of Spring. All the happenings in the Cause are for the future fruit."   ABU2400

Although wars may cease temporarily, yet there is an invisible war constantly carried out which is a tremendous economic loss. These unseen drains have broken the financial back of the nations. They do not know by what means or instrument the comity of nations or the peace of the world can be achieved.   ABU2386

"All Europe is an armed camp. These warlike preparations will necessarily culminate in a great war. The very armaments themselves are productive of war. This great arsenal must go ablaze. There is nothing of the nature of prophecy about such a view; it is based on reasoning solely."  ABU0315

Do not be deceived by this temporal glory, for the glory of these people is like a summer cloud and like a mirage. Soon it will be transformed and this clamor will turn to wailing. These divines saw the stable but not the end. Soon they will be scattered and regretful, and will be caught in manifest loss.  AB06137



if they now awaken and undertake to make amends for what was lost, they will no longer count the friends of God as strangers, and will not consider souls following their own desires as well-wishers and kind ones, will not count wolves as shepherds, and will engage in love and unity, uproot the foundation of division   AB00947

Whenever a promise is broken, it causes a commotion. For instance, suppose two nations have a disagreement has a physical effect. It causes war, and thousands of men are cut in pieces. So, when man breaks his promise to God, in other words when he "violates the Covenant," the effect is physical, and calamities appear.  ABU2116

Every movement which establishes unity and amity brings in its train life and every cause which promotes differences and enmity carries death in its wake. Every philanthropic movement is born through love and unity and every movement which has produced ruin and devastation has been born through hostility and differences.   ABU0058

"This universal tempest was so terrifying, frightening and dreadful that reason could not conceive that this oppressed community would remain protected and preserved in all lands. This is naught but through the extraordinary conquering power of the Desired One - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones' footsteps."   AB00130

Present this matter to that distinguished person of lofty accomplishments: that with all these hostile factions, differing opinions, hidden corruptions, and secret societies, it is evident that beneficial results are impossible. One must lay a foundation and establish a structure whose palace will reach beyond the Pleiades.   AB00196

Consider how the diverse tribes, the many nations of the world and all our human kindred are like ants who make their nests under the layers of the earth where they store up their food. But when the sudden rains begin, when floods start to flow, then every little nest and all these homes are washed away and utterly destroyed.  AB00871

If these governments were endowed with deep insight they could see clearly that already all their ships are sunk and disappeared from the surface of water. Where will these hot-tempered, stiff-necked, headstrong and vain-glorious nations be at the first dawn of 21st century? They have all vanished from the face of the earth.   ABU0868

I hope that through the confirmations of the Abha Kingdom in these times when all parties are in tumult and upheaval, the friends of God may arise in perfect calm and composure and attraction to the divine fragrances and enkindlement with the fire of the love of God, and may become so radiant as to illumine both East and West.   AB03678

Day by day chaos and disorder in the world are increasing. Finally it will reach such a degree that human nature cannot bear it. At that time awakening will occur and souls will become aware that religion is an impregnable fortress and faith is a manifest light and divine laws, counsels and teachings are the quickener of the earth.  AB00757

Wert thou to observe this new Dispensation with penetrating sight thou wouldst see how the world of existence hath become a fresh creation from the effulgences of the Ancient Beauty and wert thou look clearly at this new cycle thou wouldst see how its true aspect hath been adorned with both visible and invisible perfections from His Supreme Horizon   AB06323


Torrential rain will disturb and scatter those creatures accustomed to live beneath the ground but the flower gardens will become ever more graceful with blooms filled with anemones and roses and with nightingales that chant and sing a myriad songs at every moment. All that hath come to pass is a bounty unto the righteous and a calamity unto the feeble ones.  AB05372

How thoughtless are those people whose aim is to down this Great Ocean. They construct around it with their puny efforts dams and fortifications, ramparts and embankments but the perennial waves of the Great Ocean beat against them and slowly, slowly, surely, unmistakably wash them all away into its own body, absorb them and leave behind not a single trace.   ABU1465


You observe that although material civilization has reached its height in this age, there is still war and conflict, bloodshed, destruction of human foundations...In former times which we called savage, if there was a war perhaps a thousand people would be killed in a year. Now in the war between Russia and Japan, five hundred thousand were killed in six months.  ABU0419

People are still caught in the sleep of negligence, clinging to the metaphorical and shunning reality. People are still so immersed in carnal desires that even the trumpet of Israfil would not awaken them. Surely this heedlessness, ingratitude for divine bounties, and lack of awareness will lead to regret, hardship, war and strife, and bring about loss and calamity.  AB02074

The inhabitants of the world will not become mindful and aware of the Bounties and Favors of the Glorious Lord; nay rather when these Bestowals pour upon them uninterruptedly, their negligence increases in equal ratio. Perhaps through these tremendous calamities and great catastrophes they may become awakened and intelligent and turn their faces toward their Creator.  ABU1507

Events are passing and incidents are like dangerous ocean waves, but this too shall pass. As long as the people of the world remain absorbed in vain thoughts and walk the paths of self-worship and carelessness, drowning in natural feelings without considering the consequences of actions, surely comfort and tranquility will be removed, hearts disturbed, upheaval continuous, and human society in danger.  AB11809

Think of the turmoil that today exists in the Balkans; how much blood is shed; how many thousands of mothers have lost their sons, how many children have become orphans, and how many buildings, villages, and cities have been destroyed! The Balkan states have become a volcano. All this ruin originates from the prejudices created by the different dogmas, called forth by superstitions and race prejudices.   ABU0292

No sooner had that Revelation been unveiled to men's eyes than the signs of universal discord appeared among the peoples of the world, and commotion seized the dwellers of earth and heaven, and the foundations of all things were shaken. The forces of dissension were released, the meaning of the Word was unfolded, and every several atom in all created things acquired its own distinct and separate character.  BH00848

"Sometimes earthquakes arise, sometimes famine and drought appear, sometimes the tempest of factions stirs up - and this affliction continues until the lovers of that Sweet-Lipped One emerge and partake of the honey-sweetness of that Beloved. Then peace will come. All these events are so that the factions may awaken, become conscious, seek freedom from self and passion, and seek rest and peace under the Tree of Life."  AB00859

Consider how, through the operation of invisible means, the foolish ones of the earth arose to foment discord and strife, made the government of Persia exasperated, engaged in rebellion, and raised a tumult. It became thereby clear that they were the root of all mischief and the source of all malice. Thus were the promoters of peace distinguished from the seditious, and the ensuing events exposed their hidden secrets.  AB00174

Observe that although this terrible war has uprooted the foundation of all peoples and all nations have fallen into great turmoil and compared to before have become disordered, have declined and reached a state of fall and descent - except these supplicating, imploring souls who are in the shadow of the favor of the Blessed Beauty and are day by day ascending and progressing while all others are falling and declining.   AB00415

Every Universal Dispensation has two great events occur: collection and separation. That is, it will divide the father from the mother and the brother from the sister. For instance, when the father believes and the mother disbelieves, separation is produced; when the brother accepts the Message and the sister rejects it, division will occur; when the son is converted and the daughter is perverted, partition will take place.  ABU1143

The Breeze of Providence wafts from the direction of the rose-garden of Reality bestowing joy and happiness upon the adepts. The Sun of the divine world hath dawned from the horizon of the temperate, spring equinox, resurrecting into new life the countries of the orient and the occident. A most tremendous stir or motion is witnessed in the world of creation. All the phenomena are in the process of reformation and regeneration.  AB04998

The world is in upheaval while the people remain heedless. The dust of the deeds and words of the veiled ones hath obscured the luminous morn. Today every firm and mighty foundation is shaken, and every steadfast and upright foot hath faltered, save those whom thy Lord hath willed. The world's convulsions increase daily, yet its people perceive not the cause and reason, and remain veiled from what is with God by what is with themselves.   BH00960

Now since the doctors of Persia have no administrative capacity, they thought that violence and interference would cause extinction and silence and lead to suppression and oblivion; whereas interference in matters of conscience causes stability and firmness and attracts the attention of men's sight and souls; which fact has received experimental proof many times and often. So this punishment caused notoriety, and most men fell to making inquiry.  AB00003

Soon shall the carpet of acceptance be rolled up and the couch of indolence spread out. The floods shall leave naught but traces, and the pampered ones shall fall from palaces to graves. The throes of death shall seize them and intense regrets shall overtake them, when there shall be no escape, and no sound nor trace of them shall be heard. As for the foam, it passeth away as scum upon the surface, while that which is useful to mankind remaineth in the earth.  AB00246

The brilliant sun at the equator has risen in all regions from the point of equilibrium in springtime, bestowing through its light and intense heat a new outpouring and powerful spirit upon all climes. From that light and heat, movement and motion have stirred in the veins and sinews of the horizons. A new creation has appeared and a fresh spirit has been breathed. The frozen body of contingent being and the lifeless form of existence have found new life and attained boundless favor.  AB00299

Lift up your hearts above the present and look with eyes of faith into the future! Today the seed is sown, the grain falls upon the earth, but behold the day will come when it shall rise a glorious tree and the branches thereof shall be laden with fruit. Rejoice and be glad that this day has dawned, try to realize its power, for it is indeed wonderful! God has crowned you with honour and in your hearts has He set a radiant star; verily the light thereof shall brighten the whole world!  ABU1079

Because of material civilization, industry has progressed and sciences and arts have burgeoned but at the same time weapons of war and bloodshed designed for the destruction of the edifice of humanity have multiplied and political problems have vastly increased. Hence, this material civilization cannot become the means of comfort and ease for all until it acquires spiritual power and the attributes of a divine civilization. Rather, the difficulties will increase and the troubles will multiply.  ABU3014

All the denizens of the earth, the communities and the people have taken an axe in their hands to uproot the life-tree of each other; they are blood-thirsty and the instigators of corruption; they are armed to the teeth with destructive implements; each seeketh the death and annihilation of the other. But the heavenly power, the divine energy and the celestial hand of strength, hath raised the canopy of the oneness of the realm of humanity on the pinnacle of the contingent being and hoisted the standard of the most great peace, friendship, love, uprightness and the adoration of truth.  AB00205

Today the Armies of Europe, well-drilled, well-provisioned, phalanx-like are like unto the waves of the ocean attacking Asia. Asia in her present state cannot stand before these irresistible, victory-inspired armies. There is not only the army of war; there are other more influential, economic armies that are surrounding the Eastern countries. There is an army of commerce, an army of industry, an army of agriculture, an army of science and arts. All these well-disciplined hosts, supplied with the latest modern methods and instruments are bent upon great conquests in their respective fields.  ABU1571

In any case, all the governments and peoples of the world have fallen into grievous torment from the fire of this universal war. The foundation of humanity was shaken and the human world fell into a great crisis. All peoples became the target of the arrows of calamities. Yet through the infinite favors of the Blessed Beauty, this oppressed party remained protected and preserved in all regions, and this is due to the blessedness of the divine teachings, for all nations and governments are certain that the Party of God has no purpose or intention except peace, reconciliation, the unity of the human world, and fellowship and kindness.   AB00161

For this war has become a cause of hatred. For instance, the Germans will not forget, the Austrians will not forget, the Bulgarians will not forget, the Turks will not forget. If the banner of Universal Peace is not raised, this question of war will be more acute. On one side there will arise the tumult of the Socialists, from another side the storm of Bolshevism, from another the problems of labour, from another the antagonism of nations, from another religious hatred, and from another racial prejudices. It is clear what will happen. All of these are like dynamite. One day they will explode, unless the banner of Universal Peace is raised according to the Divine Teachings and the Oneness of the World of Humanity proclaimed.  ABU0210

