

We must look upon every human being we saw as a letter from the Beloved to us. No matter how blotted, blurred, torn or soiled that letter appears to be, nevertheless, you must look upon it with the eye of reality and say to yourself, this is a letter from my Beloved, therefore, because it is from Him, I must love it with that divine love and overlook all its defects--inasmuch as the Beloved wrote it.  ABU2947

If a person has committed a thousand sins, I receive him as though he is the most innocent man. I shut my eyes to his failures. I speak with him with so much love and affection that often, he things, I do not know his defects and adds to his heedlessness. For example, if a man has acted against me treasonably, if he calls on me, I receive him with such friendship as though he is mu most faithful, trusted friend.   ABU1790

Let us have a sin-covering eye   AB00323

Be patient in what befalls you.  AB11252

"We must be kind to such people."  ABU3448

Be patient even as We were patient.   BH10569

Be patient and be content with loss.   AB03836

We counsel them to patience and perseverance  BH11228

if one commits a mistake the other must forgive  AB10782

nor grieve on account of those who have wronged you   BH06711

those who pardon men; for God loveth those who do good  AB08813

Therefore, it is incumbent to be patient and long-suffering.   AB12087

Be patient and forbearing and treat them with great love and kindness  AB11098

If someone transgresses against you personally, you should forgive them.   ABU1749

We forgave him after Our power and concealed his evil deed after Our knowledge.   BH01963

He must forgive, just as God forgives the sins and transgressions of his servants.  ABU2175

You must now act with the utmost patience and composure, and show love and kindness  AB12629

The people of Baha should close their eyes to faults and see nothing but good deeds   AB04498

Do not express hatred or resentment toward anyone. Be at peace and make peace with all.   ABU2426

Patience is called for, and long-suffering, and trust in God, and the seeking of His favour.  AB10256

be a veiler of people's faults... be kindly to thy debtors; be a forgiver to the transgressors  BH11202

They overlook shortcoming and error, and drink deadly poison as though it were honey and sugar.  AB03716

Yet regarding such a one, nothing should be uttered except words of good, lest two harms occur.   BH04627

"sew an excellent robe to fit your own frame, that its hem may cover the errors of the friends"   AB07384

With a pure heart, be patient and forbearing toward the pride and arrogance of the evil divines   AB02407

you will seek forgiveness and pardon for those cruel ones and treat them with the utmost kindness  AB04426

If you observe any shortcoming in anyone, you should say "Blessed be the pure, sin-covering sight"  AB06256

We have shown patience in adversity and tribulation, and have preferred the Will of God to all else   BH09099

We said: "Be patient even as thy Lord was patient. Verily thy Lord is the Concealer, the Generous."   BH06169

Know the malevolent as benevolent and regard the sinner as sinless... Harm no one and sadden no heart.  AB01469

"I ask and pray god not for my own safety and freedom, but for your deliverance. O God forgive them!"   ABU0490

Overlook the shortcomings of others. Don't mind the criticism of any one. Overlook the sins of others.   ABU1790

Despite this, we must pray for them with heart and soul and seek forgiveness for their crimes and sins.   AB12149

Yet this servant would never mention this, but remained patient, discreet and content in all conditions.  AB11672

In brief, one must not give importance to such matters and must act with complete patience and composure.  AB01025

Therefore, the loved ones should be the manifestation of "Praise be to His pure and fault-covering vision."  AB07413

Afterwards, I went to visit him, and he was worried that I may say something; but I did not embarrass him.   ABU2601

We have forbidden all the friends of God from contention and conflict, and commanded patience and forbearance.  BH11626

"Treat them with grace and kindness and overlook their slips of pen and tongue...leave them to their affairs."  AB01440

If they fall short in understanding and are lazy in recognition, be forbearing and overlook their shortcomings.  AB06246

Although the Jews had caused Christ's death, Christ would never be pleased that revenge be taken against them.   ABU2142

"However, you must serve their descendants with the utmost patience, composure, trustworthiness and religiosity."  AB00859

One must exercise patience and forbearance as much as possible, perhaps God will bring about something after that.  AB11638

and what befits humanity is forgiveness and love. These are the attributes of the pure ones and the qualities of the free.  AB09561

Therefore, do not look at the inadequacy of any group with temerity, and do not become disheartened by their shortcomings.   AB03922

"Be thou patient with their defections, and exercise thou toward them the utmost kindness. Look thou not upon their errors."  AB07478

"Let them leave the oppressor to God and be patient in adversities. This is the truth and the station of the people of truth"  BH05692

Be not offended by anyone, neither be ye distressed by any soul, even should they inflict upon you any cruelty and oppression   AB04850

prayer for forgiveness of his killers: "Lord! Hold them not accountable for this grievous wrong...for they are ignorant ones"   AB01783

Bear every ordeal that befalleth thee from the people and confront them not save with kindness, with great love and good wishes.  AB08458

If you see an unharmonious movement or hear an unreasonable word, you must look to the root of the Blessed Tree, not its leaves   AB02784

O Lord! Ordain for them repentance for what they have neglected in regard to Thee. Verily, Thou art the Forgiving, the Merciful.   AB01493

Do not hurt any heart, even if it belongs to an oppressor or traitor. Do not sadden any soul, even if it repeatedly gives poison.  AB00669

"They should never become resentful of anyone. They should overlook faults and bestow gifts and become the mercy of all worlds."   AB11653

We will pray for them and beseech God's help and favor. We hope they become successful and attain honor and glory in both worlds.   AB02162

Exercise some patience and forbearance until the agitation of the hostile ones subsides somewhat and the authorities become assured.  AB08644

Be compassionate towards the wayward and forgiving nigh the sinful! Be humble before God and conceal the shortcomings of the people.   BH08287

The ocean of My patience hath held Me back from confronting them, and the mountain of My forbearance hath prevented Me from arising.   BH03370

They should not look upon the hatred, enmity, oppression and harm of souls, but rather turn to the luminous beauty in the divine Kingdom   AB01156

How beloved it is in the sight of God when a person, for His sake, seeketh not to retaliate but rather looketh to pardon and forgiveness.   BH01167

Were it not contrary to the Law of God, I would have kissed the hand of my would-be murderer and would have bequeathed him an inheritance.  BHU0045

Under all circumstances man must turn his face toward God and overlook the shortcomings of others;- so that he may prosper in his affairs.   ABU2093

Therefore, rest thou assured that she will be encompassed by forgiveness and pardon and will become the object of the regard of the Lord God.  AB07929

One of the special laws of Baha'u'llah is the one prohibiting cursing and defamation, and that all should seek forgiveness for their enemies.   ABU3043

The believer, animated by this spirit, begged the Governor to mitigate the sentence, and obtained its reduction to several years of banishment.  ABU1862

God forbid, if someone were to revile thee, thou must remain grateful. By the life of God! Through silence in this station all things will speak.  BH02714

"from amongst those poor, ignorant children of God the Pardoner, I should lead many back to my Father's House to receive forgiveness and Peace.'"  ABU2475

Despite this, this servant is occupied with your remembrance and accustomed to writing. Consider to what degree are the hardships and difficulties   AB02736

Show the utmost love and kindness to those who caused trouble in Ishqabad and fled, and never bring to their attention that they committed any wrong.  AB10550

Therefore it is better for you to excuse his honor Haji and forgive his past shortcomings. God willing, he will make up for what was lost in the future   AB01790

The friends must overlook one another's faults, be mindful of God's forgiveness, and pray for each other. Verily He is the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.  BH00460

one of the great teachings of Baha'u'llah not found in previous dispensations, which is the prohibition of cursing enemies and to pray for their forgiveness  ABU3484

I raised him up and pardoned him, and wrote a letter to the Vali of the time, Nasr Hayi Bey, recommending him and saying he had caused us no harm or injury.  ABU0176

Those who first arose to persecute us and plotted against us are now seeking a means for reconciliation. We have no quarrel with anyone, nor have ever had any.  ABU2878

"The more ye suffer injustice the more should ye rise in faithfulness. The more ye witness wrong doings the more should ye cover them with a sin covering eye."  AB01304

To pardon shortcomings is an attribute of the Lord of forgiveness. Thank God, thou art a dawning-point of kindness and the recipient of pardon and forgiveness.  AB01045

Be patient, O My loved ones, in adversity and tribulation, and if one should oppress you, refer his judgment to God, in Whose hand is the kingdom of all things.  BH10130

How my heart leaps with joy when I hear the friends love each other, always overlooking one another's small mistakes; and that they are forgiving their enemies!  ABU1966

arise according to the counsels of the Chosen Beauty regarding tolerance with the heedless - either He awakens the heedless one or guides them to another world.   AB06395

God, in truth, is the Most Patient, and He exhorteth you to observe befitting patience. He is the Concealer, and He admonisheth you to conceal the faults of men.   BH02461

If they give us poison, we bestow honey; if they wound us, we apply balm; if they curse us, we offer praise and commendation, dealing with utmost love and kindness  AB02218

Through My remembrance, the ocean of forgiveness and bounty hath surged from the presence of God, the Lord of all beings and the Sovereign of the Kingdom of Names.   BH00494

Assuredly, one must, to the extent possible, conceal it, turn a blind eye to the fault, and offer counsel. Verily, God is the Concealer of the faults of His servants.  AB11172

In any case, never deal with the enemies except with kindness, forbearance, and overlooking of faults. This is the way of the people of Baha, to return evil with good.  AB05961

Counter treachery with faithfulness, respond to anger with kindness, repel wrath with forbearance, allay oppression with justice, and eliminate cruelty through fidelity.   AB02788

By God! In all instances of oppression and tyranny, We have shown patience and left matters to God. Verily, He heareth and seeth, and He is the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing.  BH02558

When you see men doing evil things, you should not be angry with them, you should pity them; for their evil deeds are due to their ignorance and for them they must suffer.   ABU2080

By God, O My brother, there is no hatred in My heart for thee nor for any created thing. Hear My words, then return from thy course and turn to thy Lord in mighty humility.   BH11537

Four times he came and repented, and all the friends are witness that I again accepted him and overlooked his faults and showed kindness and love and observed faithfulness.   AB00782

Indeed, the vision was founded upon patience and forbearance in all matters and conditions. The Herald gave you patience and brought you glad tidings of a boundless reward.   AB04876

If someone asks a question, never say anything negative about him. Your answer should be this: "Many such books and treatises have been written and published without end..."   AB02060

"When you see men doing evil things, you should not be angry with them -you should pity them; for their evil deeds are due to their ignorance, and for them they must suffer."  ABU1046

Should one of the friends commit a fault, you should remember the forgiveness of the Merciful Lord and oppose the evil within your own soul, as it is in the depths of ignorance.   AB00891

Be thou patient and hold fast unto God's cord in these days wherein most of the servants have become heedless of the remembrance of their Lord and are numbered among the negligent.  BH11738

Cover the errors of these destitute ones with the hem of Thy generosity, and transform the faithlessness of these bewildered ones into the essence of fidelity, reason and awareness.   AB02814

Deal with his honor Khan with utmost love, sincerity and patience. Be not disturbed by his harshness and impetuosity. Do not be saddened. These days shall pass and happy times will come.  AB04810

Therefore in gratitude for this bounty they must associate with the followers of Truth and not speak ill of anyone. They must praise those who are firm and extol those who are steadfast.   AB05459

Be ye a shield and shelter for the hapless, a haven and a refuge for the needy. Show kindliness to your enemies and endure their tyranny and their oppression, their ignorance and ill-will.  AB02428

in every case thou shouldst requite evil deeds with good ones, and respond to censure with praise. Thou shouldst become well-wishing toward the ill-wisher and faithful toward the oppressor   AB07047

And if perchance you hear from him words that cause distress, you must certainly be forbearing and behave in such an agreeable manner that he will be gladdened by your good care and respect  AB03979

If an arrow comes, you give honey and milk; if a bitter cup is offered, you present a chalice of nectar; if they inflict a wound, you apply a salve; if they cause pain, you provide healing.  AB01299

Strive ye by day and night to cultivate your unity to the fullest degree. Let your thoughts dwell on your own spiritual development, and close your eyes to the deficiencies of other souls.   AB01432

No harm done, as He says: "O My servants who have transgressed against their own souls! Despair not of the mercy of God, for God forgives all sins." I will ask forgiveness for him from my Lord  AB01844

What could be better than for the loved ones of God to observe each other's good qualities, and--assuming the impossible--should any misdeeds occur, to cover them with the cloak of forgiveness?   AB04268

"like the vast ocean, calm and settled and established, and like the firm mountain follow the examples of the manifestations of patience and tranquility and the dawning-places of contentment."  AB03477

Therefore, to the extent possible, one must deal with all the friends with utmost kindness...Now we must deal with souls in whatever way necessary so they do not become completely turned away.   AB04019

Look not upon the shortcomings of creation; view with the eye of perfection. Though they be weak, ignorant, and inconstant in the Covenant and Testament, yet you must show magnanimity and kindness.  AB00749

Despite such insolence, we have no complaint against him while he protests. Still, pray for him and seek his healing. I harbor no ill-feeling toward him and will not be vexed, but will pray for him.  AB09273

I treat him with such love that he becomes confused about his own situation - even if he has committed the greatest betrayal against me, I treat him as though he were the most trustworthy of souls.   ABU1370

Tests and trials must be borne with patience and long-suffering; nay, we should offer thanks that, praise be to God, for His sake, we have been graciously made the targets of such severe afflictions  AB03804

"Therefore it is better that you become a contented and pleasing soul and remain assured, so that you may join the company of those leaves who are as mountains of patience and oceans of forbearance"  AB03219

Act thou contrary to that. Be confident that thou art under the protection of God. Thou must act according to the divine teachings - count the enemy as a friend and move with moderation and kindness.  AB08003

O friends! You must behave with the utmost forbearance and tranquility, and show patience in all matters. You must praise and extol those who speak ill of you, and wish well for those who wish you ill.   AB01435

Their conception of hospitality is so unique that if the guest either by accident or by purpose kills the son of host and takes refuge under the latter's tent he will be protected and his crime forgiven.  ABU1495

Mention nothing save that which is good concerning the people. Praise every one. If you find a fault or mistake in some one do not speak of it. If you see good qualities, mention and try to emulate them.  ABU1403

"And if some souls speak ill and criticize Abdul-Baha, act according to the blessed verse of the Quran which states: 'And when they pass by vain talk, they pass by with dignity.' Do not engage with them."  AB05277

Although he has spread tales and stories about me and authored a book to demean me, I have never written a single word about him. If he were fair-minded, this patience and forbearance alone would suffice.  AB01012

But notwithstanding this fact, if there is anyone who hesitates therein, do not dispute with him, nay rather prove this to him with all joy and fragrance, lest he may be obstinately compelled to rebellion.   AB02315

Despite such insolence, we have no complaint against him, yet he complains. Still, pray for him and seek healing for him. I harbor no ill-feeling toward him and will not take offense, but will pray for him.   AB09273

It is incumbent on thee to have abundant patience and endurance in every difficult matter! Patience is one of the Gifts of God, and always is of the attributes of the Chosen Ones and the quality of the Pious.   AB01086

Weigh not the servants by God's measure, for they weigh at all times and are among the unfaithful. Rather forgive them and overlook their misdeeds, for thou art indeed the Generous, the Lord of abundant grace.   BH01069

At present forbearance is necessary lest a break occur, for if a break occurs, fellowship and association will cease and no one will draw nigh. We exercise patience and forbearance, and you too must do likewise.  AB09233

Should anyone commit an error, he should be reminded with the utmost joy and fragrance, and if he be not receptive to reminders, leave him to himself. Deal with the friends of God with utmost love and forbearance.  BH01006

Observe that Christ did not see any of that animal's faults, but searched until He noticed that its teeth were white. He saw only the whiteness of its teeth, overlooking its decay, putrefaction and ugly appearance.  AB01933

O handmaiden of God! Show the utmost kindness to the divine maidservant Louise Stapfer. If she shows faithlessness, you show faithfulness. If she seeks distance, you seek nearness. She will ultimately return to love.  AB01553

O God! Be my witness that I would forgive my own killer, but I will not forgive nor will I accept near me anyone who speaks of me in terms other than servitude to the Ancient Beauty and slavery to the Most Great Name.   AB02929

If anyone does you harm with his tongue or his hands, be not grieved; but smile and be rejoiced, and treat him in turn with utmost love and sincerity. If in your hearing anyone reviles and execrates you, heed him not.   ABU1564

The farmer must be very patient and not become disheartened. He should continue with his work, knowing that the day will come when the harvest appears. It definitely requires extraordinary effort, patience and endurance.   AB01322

Live in peace, love, union and agreement, and overlook the faults and defects of others and to see only their good actions and not their bad ones. These are things that will lead to perfect success and thorough happiness.   ABU0115

God hath pardoned him. Verily thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. We counsel Our loved ones not to speak that which would grieve his heart. Verily thy Lord is the Concealer, and verily He is possessed of great bounty.  BH02904

"If a fault is committed by someone and I treat him with kindness, this is not on account of my negligence; but as I acknowledge my own short-comings and am cognizant of my own state, I do not show any opposition to others."   AB01161

If anyone revile you, or trouble touch you, in the path of God, be patient, and put your trust in Him Who heareth, Who seeth. He, in truth, witnesseth, and perceiveth, and doeth what He pleaseth, through the power of His sovereignty.  BH00005

If some one commits any mistake, forgive him. Overlook the sins of others. Do not let the sinner known by any allusion suggestion that you know his shortcomings. Pardon the transgression of the sinner and God shall forgive your sins.   ABU0754

We counsel thee to be forbearing. If thou shouldst hear an unseemly word from thy brother, thou must conceal it and prefer forgiveness over retribution...In all matters, silence and quietude concerning him are most fitting and beloved.  BH01988

Concerning all the persecution inflicted thus far - that is, from those individuals who received the utmost love and kindness from the honored Afnans, upon them be the Most Glorious Glory of God - they showed patience and left it to God.   BH00860

Do not look upon their shortcomings. Look thou upon all of them as the people of God and endeavor thou in right-doing and well-meaning. Ignorant are they; understand they do not. Therefore they are avoiding, criticizing and scorning thee.   AB04071

O my beloved! The Blessed Beauty has commanded me to be forbearing, patient, concealing, forgiving and clement - otherwise I would rend their veils, expose their sins, proclaim their deeds, explain their character, and clarify their conduct.   AB01366

'Abdu'l-Baha has always concealed faults and continues to conceal faults, and does not mention anyone's errors and shortcomings but keeps them hidden... If someone were to cut off one of my limbs, I would forgive them before the crime occurred.  AB01498

Therefore I beg of the believers of God, especially those who have been the Companions of the Blessed Perfection in this Most great Prison not to look upon the shortcomings but look upon every man from the standpoint of divine Mercy and Grace.   ABU0418

My God, my God! Adorn the temples of the heedless with the light of acceptance, the deniers with the ornament of recognition, and the idolaters with the radiance of unity and oneness. O my Lord! Aid them to return to the gate of Thy forgiveness.   BH05581

Whatever happened in the past is past. "Hadst thou been harsh and stern of heart they would indeed have broken away from around thee." We are commanded to deal with the utmost love and kindness even with our enemies, how much more so with friends.  AB08844

You should arise in the contrary with utmost love and kindness. Do not oppose or argue with them. Arise with gentleness and kindness. No matter how much they condemn, slander and denounce you, you meet them with love, mercy, patience and forbearance  AB12455

Verily God forgiveth all sins. We harbor no ill-feeling toward anyone, nor do We seek to contend or dispute with any soul. We are kind-hearted toward all beings, even toward strangers. We abhor hatred and malice, and keep far from the love of vengeance.  AB12186

Treat ye then one another with kindness, overlook the faults of others, and when ye pass by frivolous sport, pass ye by with dignity and close thine eyes to shortcomings. Thus commandeth ye the Ancient Beauty in His Scriptures, Tablets and inscribed Book.   AB03531

However, as far as possible, one must close the eye of objection and open the eye of kindliness, lest, as before, cursing and charges of unbelief, rancor and envy should arise. Here too such things are found, and we deal with them with utmost consideration.  BH05558

And if any one practiced forgiveness that forgiveness was coupled with blame and reproach. But in this dispensation, all these pretexts are dispelled and real love and kindness with all the soul and heart to all the nations of the earth is the absolute law.  AB09120

Do not trouble the household members - it is ignorance and heedlessness and disobedience. God willing, through your sincerity and good conduct and through divine confirmations, they may become remorseful and repentant in the future. In any case, show kindness.  AB04027

If they offer thee a poisoned cup, give them a refreshing chalice. If they seek to defame thee, conceal their faults with a sin-covering eye. If they strike a blow, put ointment on their wound. If they come forward with drawn swords, offer them milk and honey.  AB04092

One must show the utmost kindness to all people. One must always overlook - whatever one sees from others, one must overlook it. After that investigative body, we never indicated to anyone that "you said this" or "you did that." I said we must maintain silence.  ABU1821

Beware, beware lest you hurt any heart, break any spirit, cause any soul pain, make any being sorrowful, or cause anyone to wither - even if they be your mortal enemy or an oppressor. Patience and forbearance are necessary, calmness and composure are essential.  AB11322

In my view, all who dwell on earth are accepted - there is no outcast, no one who incurs wrath, and no one who is detested. That is, I desire fellowship and harmony with all who dwell on earth with the utmost joy and fragrance, and I turn not away from any soul.  AB03113

The Qur'an says "Those who control their anger and are forgiving toward mankind - God loveth the good-doers." This means if someone transgresses against another, the one transgressed against should be forbearing, should forgive, and should show kindness and favor.   ABU0531

And if any of the friends should commit a wrong, view it with forgiving eyes. Never show any trace of resentment. As thou hast written, ye are all drops of one ocean, stars of one heaven, and members of one household. Ye must never cause one another to be saddened.  AB04858

Show ye an endeavor that all the nations and communities of the world, even the enemies, put their trust, assurance and hope in you; that if a person falls into error for a hundred thousand times he may yet turn his face to you hopeful that you will forgive his sins  AB10789

As thou derivest grace and bounty from the ocean of this blessed Name, thou shouldst open the sin-covering eye and become the concealer of the sins of all that dwell on earth. How blessed is this name 'the concealer,' for it is the cause of happiness in both worlds.  AB08670

Although he committed the greatest mistake of his life when he ordered the martyrdom of the Bab and the friends, yet as [we] always remember the ability of even our worst enemy and never overlook justice, therefore we acknowledge the public services of this able man.  ABU0952

"O loved ones of God! Pay no heed to the oppression and inequity of the ignorant. Counter injustice with justice, oppression with equity, and bloodthirstiness with kindness. Be well-wishers in the progress of Iran and Iranians, and strive for universal civilization."  AB00132

We must not look at or see the faults or imperfections of people. If we look at the body of a man, we may only see that the head is too big, or the hands too long - we may find it full of imperfections - but we must look at the spirit within him, causing him to live.  ABU0322

As to what thou hast written about revenge, the friends must be the oppressed, not the oppressor, in this world, and they should even intercede on behalf of their killers. They should ask God to forgive them, for they are ignorant and unaware, unconscious and heedless.   AB01479

Will the unworthy ones be with the worthy ones in the kingdom? Yes, thru the grace of God. If God acts with mercy it will be so. When a teacher is kind, he accepts the children who have not capacity as well; for He knows that these will find capacity while in the school.  ABU0314

You must try to manage to conduct yourself (you and the firm friends) so that violators may not interfere with your activity. Be kind to them at first. Do not be severe at first. If you find they cannot be changed, leave them to themselves. If (you) change them- very good.  ABU1634

If anyone does something you do not like, forgive him; you must always look at the good and not the bad. If a man has ten good qualities and one bad one, you must look at the ten and if a man has ten bad qualities and one good one, you must look at that one and forget the ten  ABU1225

As for that mystic who spoke about the meaning of the tradition of error and considered the Most Holy Beauty to be its completion and therefore objected - in this wondrous dispensation the Blessed Beauty commanded the covering of faults, therefore I do not wish to mention his name.  AB04093

Has your ear not attained to the blessed word "Give glad tidings to the patient ones"? Have you not found and perceived the sweetness of patience and forbearance in the path of the Peerless Friend? He says "and the patient in adversity and affliction and in time of conflict."   BH00750

So conduct thyself with the utmost love and long-sufferance towards thy relatives, show kindliness and forbearance to thy family. Do not draw away from them or take umbrage; do not become alienated and sad. But persevere, rather, and be patient. The end belongs to those who are patient.  AB02222

Be thou patient therefore and leave the lukewarm to themselves. Place thy trust in God's care. These souls are very weak, their power of perception very fragile. One must be patient with them and show tolerance towards them in order, hopefully, that they may experience remorse and regret.  AB05461

I know they seek to kill me and surely this will be my end - my murder is certain. And you know I have the power to take revenge on the Shah. But I am not faithless - until my last breath I will remain faithful. I leave this faithlessness to them." Consider how gentle and forbearing he was.   AB01307

This is called error, not hatred; forgetfulness, not rebellion; falling short, not transgression. If someone commits an error, they should cover it with the veil of forgiveness and strive to awaken that person, so the error may be transformed into right conduct and sin may lead to awakening.   AB00580

"In truth nothing is sweeter in man's taste than to do good toward those who have done him ill. For, whenever one remembers such kindness to one's enemies, one feels highly rejoiced. I showed kindness to each one of the officials who, during those days of trouble, had ill-treated the friends."  ABU0279

In most Tablets He says that if an oppressor transgresses against you, hold fast to the cord of patience, and if he harms you, forgive him. They have forbidden conflict, contention, corruption, killing, plunder and pillage to such an extent that most servants are aware and bear witness to this.   BH00403

As thou derivest grace and bounty from the ocean of this blessed Name, thou shouldst open the sin-covering eye and become the concealer of the sins of all that dwell on earth. In truth, this attribute also covers the faults of oneself and will lead to the illumination of one's own heart and soul.  AB08670

Therefore, you must not look upon each other's shortcomings. If someone commits a wrong against another, the eye must be forgiving and cover the fault of the wrongdoer with the mantle of pardon, and in response to that fault show the utmost love and kindness so that the wrongdoer becomes ashamed.  AB00291

"Indeed certain unworthy words issued from his tongue. We have veiled them through Our grace, for verily We are the Concealer, the All-Knowing. The True One, exalted be His glory, loves His loved ones, and if a fault appears from someone, He shows patience until an appointed time and conceals it."  BH00473

When they crucified Christ (may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him), a soldier thrust his spear into His blessed side. That holy Soul immediately offered this prayer: "O Lord! Forgive these souls, for they know not what they do. If they knew, they would not do it. Therefore, grant them Thy forgiveness."  AB07667

However much the Iranians in those regions may avoid you, seek to draw near to them. However much they may harm you, show them love. Whatever evil they speak, show them kindness. By whatever means possible, show them the utmost consideration. Be not repelled by cursing and insults and violation of dignity.   AB01433

You must bear their taunts and persecution. The time of distinction and separation will come. At present forbearance is necessary lest division occur, for if division occurs, fellowship and association will cease and no one will draw near. We are exercising patience and forbearance; you too must act likewise.  AB09233

If one of thy relations oppress thee, complain not against him before the magistrate; rather manifest magnificent patience during every calamity and hardship. Verily thy Master is the Lord of Faithfulness! Forgive and overlook the shortcomings which have appeared in that one, for the sake of love and affection.  AB03258

Our aim is that thou shouldst urge all the believers to show forth kindness and mercy and to overlook certain shortcomings among them, that differences may be dispelled; true harmony be established; and the censure and reproach, the hatred and dissension, seen among the peoples of former times may not arise anew.  BH01050

Two deeds which are truly considered among the greatest of all deeds in the sight of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, were manifested by them: first, refraining from retaliation against the oppressors, namely the tyrannical Shi'ih party, and second, interceding with the authorities on behalf of their enemies.   BH01021

Should opposition or injury happen to you, bear it and be kind, as kind as ever you can be. Through all, love the people, and not by mere confession. If they beat you with swords, ask them for forgiveness. If they attribute infidelity to you, pray for their guidance. If they blame you, be sincerely grateful to them.  ABU0075

Be kind to all and deal with everyone in complete truthfulness and trustworthiness. Whatever they do and whatever they allow does not matter. You must act in the opposite way. Counter oppression with justice, hatred with love, insult with assistance, opposition with agreement, poison with honey, venom with antidote.   AB00043

No matter how blotted, blurred, torn or soiled that letter appears to be, nevertheless, you must look upon it with the eye of reality and say to yourself, this is a letter from my Beloved, therefore, because it is from Him, I must love it with that divine love and overlook all its defects--inasmuch as the Beloved wrote it.  ABU2947

When ye meet with cruelty and persecution at another's hands, keep faith with him; when malevolence is directed your way, respond with a friendly heart. To the spears and arrows rained upon you, expose your breasts for a target mirror-bright; and in return for curses, taunts and wounding words, show forth abounding love.   AB00189

The prudent one and that blood-thirsty and repugnant man, and if there was any forgiveness it was accompanied by reproach and blame along with clemency and tolerance. But in this Dispensation all these matters have been abrogated, and love and kindliness from the heart and soul toward all peoples has been explicitly ordained.  AB00514

Beware, beware, lest any of you seek vengeance, even against one who is thirsting for your blood. Beware, beware, lest ye offend the feelings of another, even though he be an evil-doer, and he wish you ill. Look ye not upon the creatures, turn ye to their Creator. See ye not the never-yielding people, see but the Lord of Hosts.  AB00044

Therefore, do not look at the shortcomings of anybody; see with the sight of forgiveness. The imperfect eye beholds imperfections. The eye that covers faults looks toward the Creator of souls. He created them, trains and provides for them, endows them with capacity and life, sight and hearing; therefore, they are the signs of His grandeur.   ABU0666

Whatever you see from strangers, if they oppose you and injure you, you have to bear it and be patient. As much as they injure you and hate you, you have to show your kindness to them. You have to treat them as friends. It must be so. If they give you poison, you have to give them honey; if they wound you, you have to plaster their wounds.   ABU0966

Beware lest ye rejoice at his misfortune or spread scandal about anyone. Rather, conceal it that God may conceal your faults, for He is the best of concealers. Close your eyes to the errors of men that God may close His eyes to yours. Then forgive and overlook as God hath forgiven you throughout your lives, for He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH01776

Often I witness a person destroying the foundation of my house with axe and spade. I am standing there, watching him smilingly and instead of rebuking him, I do not say anything. But he gets angry and wrathfully declares: why do you not come and co-operate with me in this work of destruction? Man! Thou art destroying my home! I am not saying anything!   ABU1790

Yet these helpless ones bowed their heads in submission, not even raising a cry of lamentation. Rather, they engaged in supplication and prayer, and under sword and blade sought pardon and forgiveness for their assailants. One cried out "No harm! Verily unto our Lord do we return!"... Another called out "Lord forgive them, for they know not what they do!"  AB00176

One day a person entered Abraham's house. His Holiness prepared food, and when they sat at the table and were about to begin, the idolater uttered the name of an idol. His Holiness became distressed. Then came the divine address: O Abraham! This person has lived ninety years, and I have borne with him for ninety years. Could you not bear with him for one hour?  ABU0948

'You are the only person in this world who does not dream of any retaliation but these many persons to whom I have done evil, now that they have heard I am deposed, will do their utmost to vilify my character and ruin my reputation. You are forgiving. I beg you to come to your assistance.' All the friends know how well I treated him and he left Acca very happy.  ABU0393

'Abdu'l-Baha, as much as possible, wishes to have a sin-covering eye and to conceal faults, for more than all others He sees Himself as sinful and incapable and deficient in servitude to the Lord. Therefore, being occupied with His own shortcomings, He does not dwell on the sins of others and constantly seeks pardon and forgiveness and beseeches grace and bounty.   AB00994

in days of hardship one must possess joy and delight and be patient and grateful, as it is said: "We shall surely test you with something of fear and hunger and loss of wealth and lives and fruits," and then it says "give glad tidings to the patient ones." Days of ease have passed and days of hardship will also pass, so patience and forbearance and trust are necessary.  AB03346

Count the oppressors as faithful friends, consider strangers as intimates, regard enemies as loving friends, and treat oppressors as just ones in your regard. This is what we are commanded to do.  AB11634

"One must see in every human being only that which is worthy of praise. When this is done, one can be a friend to the whole human race. If, however, we look at people from the standpoint of their faults, then being a friend to them is a formidable task." "Thus is it incumbent upon us, when we direct our gaze toward other people, to see where they excel, not where they fail."   AB04433

You wrote about your noble children - for now show them kindness as much as possible and do not look at their deeds and actions. Act according to the divine counsels. They seek the ornaments of the world - give to them and be kind to them, and whenever any of them shows the slightest compatibility, show even more consideration, so that God willing your love may influence them.  AB01495

However, covering faults applies to matters where the harm returns to the doer himself, not to the government, nation, human society and mankind. For example, if someone commits an immoral act or does something reprehensible where the harm returns to that person himself, such as drinking alcohol or committing adultery, in such cases covering faults is acceptable and praiseworthy.  AB01195

If some shortcoming issues from certain friends, others should cover it with the hem of concealment and strive to perfect his deficiencies, not seek out his faults and wish for his abasement and humiliation. A fault-covering eye leads to insight, and a wise person conceals the faults of every sinful servant. Tearing veils is the way of beasts, not of a person full of knowledge and wisdom.  AB01209

The first was the manifestation of supreme oppression in such wise that [...] and they did not protest. Whatsoever they witnessed and heard they left to God, clinging in all conditions to gracious patience and sublime tranquillity. The second was their intercession on behalf of enemies before the princes. In truth, that which was manifested is accounted before God as the most excellent of deeds.  BH11622

Do not look upon the "worth" and "merit" of the people. In former ages and cycles, the command of love and non-resistance had been revealed. But there was a pretext among the people, - "merit" and "de-merit." They would say this person is contumacious and a hypocrite and that person is blood-thirsty and cruel. And if any one practiced forgiveness that forgiveness was coupled with blame and reproach.  AB09120

If anyone harms Me a thousand times, I will not reciprocate in the least, and in fact, will never even make mention of it to the point that he can mistakenly claim, "I was so clever that 'Abdu'l-Baha did not perceive my deception." No, I see everything, but conceal it [with a sin-covering eye]. However, if anyone arises to harm the Cause, then I will no longer remain patient and will announce it publicly.   ABU0522

Immediately I supplicated and implored at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty, offered prayers, and sought forgiveness from the Kingdom of Pardon. Surely these supplications and devotions of 'Abdu'l-Baha at the Divine Threshold will be accepted. Therefore, give Mr. McNutt the glad tidings that he should know with certainty that the page has been completely cleansed, and no trace of dust remains whatsoever.   AB00119

Leave them to themselves and desire not that God should take vengeance upon them, for they are ignorant and deserve mercy and forgiveness. Pray for their pardon and forgiveness for this sin and transgression. Seek forgiveness for them and beseech God to pardon them, forgive their misdeeds, deliver them from plunging into the seas of error and passion and from drowning in the depths of degradation and blindness.  AB04149

For example, if someone wrongs, injures and assaults another, and the latter retaliates in kind, this constitutes revenge and is blameworthy. If Peter kills the son of Paul, Paul has no right to kill the son of Peter. Were he to do so, it would be an act of vengeance and blameworthy in the extreme. Rather, he must act in the opposite manner and show forgiveness, and, if possible, even be of some assistance to his aggressor.   AB00090

He would report my movements, pauses, conversations with the believers, and news from all quarters to Mirza Muhammad Ali at midnight. Despite this, I bore it with patience and remained silent until he began to embitter some of the weak ones against me through hints and intimations, seeking through subtle means to form a distinct party that would be Covenant-breakers inwardly while appearing steadfast outwardly, thus causing a great division.  AB00107

The foundation of this bounty is that you must wish well for those who wish you ill, teach angelic qualities to the devilish, and free the predatory from their savage nature. Show kindness, practice good conduct, seek patience, and express remorse to the transgressors. Though they be predators, you must become soaring birds. Though they be ravening beasts, you must become watchful gazelles. Though they be bloodthirsty, you must become sympathetic.  AB01191

Be not grieved by what hath occurred, grow not weary. Practice patience and steadfastness and conduct thyself in such a way as to bring honor to those possessed of insight. That is, become a well-wisher to ill-wishers, deal faithfully with the faithless, become caring toward enemies, and be a cup-bearer to those who give poison. Counter deadly venom with sweet honey. Heal pain, grant safety to the treacherous, bestow gifts upon the oppressor, and extend forgiveness and pardon to wrongdoers.   AB03433

You must not see evil as evil and then compromise with your opinion, for to treat in a smooth, kindly way one whom you consider evil or an enemy is hypocrisy, and this is not worthy or allowable. You must consider your enemies as your friends, look upon your evil-wishers as your well-wishers and treat them accordingly. Act in such a way that your heart may be free from hatred. Let not your heart be offended with anyone. If some one commits an error and wrong toward you, you must instantly forgive him.   ABU1122

And as for Jinab-i-Nabil, forgive him from thy heart, for man is prone to error. We all fix our eyes upon God's pardon, grace and forgiveness. Though from Jinab-i-Nabil an undesirable action occurred regarding thee, yet he had formerly endured numerous afflictions in the path of the Beloved of the world. Therefore we must pray for one another and seek forgiveness. Today the heaven of grace is raised high and the ocean of mercy is surging. We must all beseech the peerless King to adorn all with the garment of forgiveness.   BH01457

"However, the friends of God must be extremely truthful, trustworthy, obedient, submissive and well-wishers of the government, and never seek revenge against the oppressors. Rather, they should intercede to the extent possible, show mercy and kindness to the officers, be loving to the oppressors and practice patience. If they shed the blood of the innocent, the friends have mixed honey and sugar to sweeten their palate. If they wielded sword and arrow and tested the blade, the friends give candy and honey, heal the pain of the officers, and salve the wounds of the oppressors."  AB06605

We counsel Nabil, upon him be My peace, to deal with kindness and affection toward the few souls who are in that land. They should in no wise take notice of words or deeds wherein opposition may be perceived, for they must become the reference point for all matters. However they deal with those few souls will be the cause of their own exaltation - no harm will ever return to them. I am among those who bear witness. Let them act in such a way that those few souls remain at peace. Man is ever prone to error, save him whom God protects. Forgiveness and overlooking are ever beloved before God.   BH01028

Although enemies have extended the hand of aggression against the Furughis and engaged in lies and calumny, you must not give importance to this aggression and enmity. Deal with them in the opposite way and seek harmony and say "We have no complaint against anyone and will not complain, and we know that all affairs are by divine decree and inevitable fate. We see no cause, we look to the Causer. We seek forgiveness for transgressors and at the Divine Threshold we seek intercession for rebels, and to the extent possible we are kind friends to every ill-wisher and with every prejudiced one we are without thought and without illness."  AB00549

Wherefore must the loved ones of God associate in affectionate fellowship with stranger and friend alike, showing forth to all the utmost loving-kindness, disregarding the degree of their capacity, never asking whether they deserve to be loved. In every instance let the friends be considerate and infinitely kind. Let them never be defeated by the malice of the people, by their aggression and their hate, no matter how intense. If others hurl their darts against you, offer them milk and honey in return; if they poison your lives, sweeten their souls; if they injure you, teach them how to be comforted; if they inflict a wound upon you, be a balm to their sores; if they sting you, hold to their lips a refreshing cup.   AB00128

One might say, 'Well, I will endure such-and-such a person so long as he is endurable.' But Baha'is must endure people even when they are unendurable.   ABU3523

man should see shortcomings in himself, not in others. Rather, he should cover others' faults and seek out perfections in every soul, not imperfections. He should speak of their perfections, not their faults and deficiencies.   AB01104

They said to Jesus, Son of Mary, "Why do you associate with tax collectors?" He said, "I have come for the sinners, that through kindly counsels I might sanctify them from worldly conditions and guide them to that which will exalt them." You should speak the word of truth with the utmost joy and fragrance.  BH00224

When people deny religion how shall we deal with them?" Answer: "You must be tolerant and patient, because the station of sight is a station of bounty; it is not based on capacity. They must be educated."   ABU0326

After reading the letter, it was observed that your honor, like the noble recording angels, had written numerous tablets mentioning certain souls. However, according to previous accounts, the recording angels are charged with recording both good and evil deeds, while your honor has recorded only the misdeeds of each one. This matter caused great astonishment. O my brother, what I say, I say for God's sake. If the True One, exalted be His glory, were to deal with this evanescent servant and other friends with justice, and were to bring forth the balance of justice, none would find refuge or escape. However, as these are the days of the Most Great Manifestation, He has dealt and continues to deal with all through His greatest bounty. In truth, were anyone to observe with the eye of fairness, they would see their very existence, being, mention and praise as a grievous error, let alone their unworthy and rejected deeds and words. Therefore, this servant and your honor must hold fast to the cord of God's favor and beseech Him with utmost humility and supplication to protect all the friends from the promptings of self and passion, and to direct them to the highest horizon. It is known that all created things are prone to error and ever shall be, but today, as the Sun of generosity is shining and the ocean of mercy is surging, God's gaze is fixed upon the goodly deeds of souls who have turned to Him. This is naught but His grace and generosity toward His servants, and His mercy and bounty toward His loved ones. One day, Jesus son of Mary - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - was walking with several of His disciples when they came upon a dead dog. They expressed disgust, saying they detected a foul odor. That Source of compassion and mercy said, "How white are its teeth!" Observe now how He concealed the fault - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loving-kindness. This was solely to teach His companions that all should fix their gaze upon the good deeds of others and conceal one another's faults. We bear witness that He is verily the All-Knowing, the Wise Teacher. Perfect infallibility has been and shall ever be confined to God, exalted be His glory. None has had or shall have a share of this most pure fountain, and assuredly all but God have been and shall ever be prone to error.   BH00418

In prosperity and adversity alike, follow ye the truth, and hold fast unto the cord of patience and long-suffering. Consider those luminous souls who, though outwardly bearing relation to the truth, yet inwardly -- in that which is manifest and clear -- wolves in the fullest measure of tyranny strove to extinguish those two resplendent lights, until they attained unto the sublime and honored station of martyrdom. The Blessed Beauty -- exalted be His glory and magnified His power and sanctified His majesty -- though possessed of the might to exact retribution according to outward seeming, did nonetheless command all to observe patience and forbearance, for His regard is directed toward the education of the world and unto another station altogether.  BH00323
