
Q: "What is Love in the commandment of the Christ "that ye love one another?"  A: "There are different kinds of degrees of love: First, from God to God; the Spiritual flow from God to the Manifestations. This is the bounty of the Holy spirit, perfect in its effulgence and Expression as the light of the sun in a mirror. Second, from God to the creatures. This is called Eternal life: that which the disciples received in their heavenly blessings, divine guidance and abundant power. Third, from the creatures to God. The outcome of this is Faith, Assurance, and turning to God in spiritual recognition and relationship. Fourth, from the people of God to the people of God. For instance, we witness such devotion among believers that they will sacrifice life for each other. Through this love is the accomplishment of Unity among them. By this love all believers become as one. This is the Divine Spirit of Love which gives Life to the world, illumines the temples of existence, restores sight to the blind, causes the deaf to hear, makes the dump speak, and transforms enemies into friends. Fifth, from man to himself. If this is simply selfishness it is as disastrous to the soul, but if it be spiritual and conscious devotion to self it becomes a spur upward and onward. Mere selfish love is like a man whirling round and round until he becomes dizzy and falls. The true love of self is that which leads forward and upward in a direct course toward higher life and being." ABU1710

There are four well-known degrees of love. First is the love from God to the servant, as evidenced by the verse "He loves them." Second is the love from the servant to the Lord, as proven by "they love Him." Third is love from servant to servant, as attested by the verse "merciful among themselves." Fourth is from Truth to Truth, as established by "I loved to be known."   AB04822

Love is only of the four kinds that I have explained. (a) The love of God towards the identity of God. Christ has said God is Love. (b) The love of God for His children -- for His servants. (c) The love of man for God and (d) the love of man for man. These four kinds of love originate from God. These are rays from the Sun of Reality; these are the Breathings of the Holy Spirit; these are the Signs of the Reality.   ABU0651

There are many stages or kinds of Love. In the beginning God, through His Love, created man. Man is the highest product of His Love, and the purpose of man's existence is to reflect this Love of God in his soul. But man in his egotism and love of self turns away from his Creator and thereby prevents the accomplishment of the Divine Plan. The Manifestations appear to show man the way to God through Love. By them, man is brought to the condition of severance from his egotism and being absorbed into the Ocean of Love Divine. The three stages of Love are therefore: 1st-- God's Love for man. 2nd-- Man's love for self. 3rd-- Man's love for God.  There is a profound, a Divine Wisdom in Love. The Light of God shines in the eyes when the heart is pure. The home of Religion is the heart.  ABU1872

The Master said there are five kinds of love: 1st. The love of His own perfections which caused GOD to create, that His Beauty might be made manifest and appreciated. 2nd. The love between sanctified souls for the attributes of the divine which they see reflected in one another. 3rd. GOD's love to man individually that is gained according to the measure in which a man turns to GOD. 4th. Man's love for GOD, the Creator. This is the cause of his life, progress and happiness. 5th. Is the love of self, which directed to the ego will deprive the man of all true development, but if the love of self is a realization that he is a creature of GOD and must therefore attain to the station appointed for him, this love will be an uplifting one.   ABU1470
