

There are only four accepted criteria of comprehension, that is, four criteria whereby the realities of things are understood.  AB00520

Man has four standards to which he refers in the ascertainment of truth-the report of the senses, the verdict of reason, tradition or testimony, and inspiration.... Our conclusion must, therefore, be that none of these standards for the determination of truth is worthy of implicit confidence; and man has no other means for reaching a true understanding. Yet if the conclusion declared by all four of these standards be the same, it is worthy of confidence. Then we may be assured that the common report is correct. Otherwise we cannot be sure. The rule, then, which we should adopt in our investigations, is this: In determining every question we should refer it to these four standards, and a conclusion which is supported by the verdict of all we should accept; any other we should regard as uncertain. Yet there is another standard which is the peculiar possession of the Chosen of God. This standard is the breathings of the Holy Spirit. By that power assurance is produced, man becomes certain, and the consciousness is satisfied.  ABU0648

O distinguished and learned one! You know that the measures of understanding among people are of four kinds: the measure of the senses, the measure of reason, the measure of tradition, and the measure of inspiration.   AB00223

There are three ways of apprehending Truth. First, the earthly way, by means of the five senses. Second, the way by argument and reasoning and all philosophers have taught that it was possible to reach the knowledge of Truth by this method. Third, the spiritual way, by which man receives knowledge from the inner light or inspiration.   ABU0484

Knowledge is measured by four things, viz., first, sensation (that is, the things understood by the five senses); second, reason; third, revelation; fourth, inspiration. ABU0251

There are four means of knowledge. Among scientists and philosophers a method of attaining knowledge is through the senses, principally through observation. Light shows us that light exists. Reality is limited to the perceptible thing; all that is not perceptible is subject to doubt. Among the ancient philosophers the infallible way to knowledge was through logic. The different schools of logic weighed everything in the scales of cold scholasticism. As to religious people their criterion has ever been the sacred text which must be accepted as final. One is not allowed the slightest reflection. "The word of God," they say, "is truth." Inspiration is the fourth criterion. Occultists say, "I have had a revelation. This truth has been revealed to me." For them everything outside direct revelation is viewed with doubt. So we have indicated the four criterions: the senses, reason, the sacred text, inspirations. There is no fifth.   ABU0608

There are four kinds of lights: 1 - The outward (or phenomenal) light, which makes things manifest or visible, but which does not discover them. 2 - The light of the eye, or the Eye-sight. This makes things manifest and also discovers them, but it does not comprehend them. 3 - The light of the Intellect (or reason). this light makes things manifest, discovers them, comprehends them, but things pre-exist it, (i.e., its existence is posterior to the creation of things). 4 - The Light of God. It is the revealer of things (i.e., by it things are made manifest), the discoverer of things, the comprehender of things, and it precedes the creation of all things and follows the existence of all things, as it is said, 'God is the Light of the Heaven and Earth' (Quran).  ABU0971

Therefore, know that all the peoples and kindreds possess four balances with which they weigh the truths, the significances, and the divine questions. All of them are imperfect, unable to quench the burning thirst or heal the sick. We shall therefore make mention of each one and demonstrate its limitation and inaccuracy.... As for the true, divine balance which never strayeth, and which ever comprehendeth the universal realities and the sublime inner meanings, it is the balance of the inmost heart [mizanu'l-fu'ad], of which God hath made mention in the blessed verse. AB00207


