
The significance and usefulness of this unique place lie in the fact that they offer a free and unrestricted platform to the citizens of every nation and the adherents of every religion. Thus every subject is discussed with that full liberality of conscience which is alone enjoyed in the United States.   ABU0377

Every man walking in the street is free as if he were in his own kingdom. There is a great spiritual light in London. The effort made for justice is real and in this country the law is the same for the poor as for the rich.  ABU3420

"When one is released from the prison of self, that is indeed a release."  ABU0516

Everyone is free in their thoughts and words. We have nothing to do with anyone's affairs.   AB02060

Q: What is the greatest thing you have seen in America?A: The greatest thing I have seen in America is freedom. Indeed, this nation is free and this government is just. ABU0141

Regarding what you wrote about traveling to Persia - you came of your own accord and now too you are free to choose. In any case there is no harm in these matters; there is freedom. However, it does not appear that Persia would be better than here. You will go and you will see. BH06294

You had written that you are free from Christian dogmas - this news brought me joy, for what could be better than spiritual freedom?  AB08783

True freedom pertains to the heart, not to the body, and true wisdom belongs to the spirit, not to mere political laws and regulations.  AB12664

Consider - is a forced friendship acceptable to you? If you tell someone If you don't believe, I will kill you and they believe, this is not faith.  ABU1683

I want everyone left free to act as he wills. If anyone wishes to put money into other things, let him do so. Do not interfere with him in any way.  ABU3252

The point is that a person is free - if they wish they can dedicate their life to the Kingdom of God, or they can serve the Cause of God while engaged in other affairs.   ABU1434

Stay in the home if you like, or go if you are not happy here. We are glad to have you if you care to stay, but free your heart of all fear that we will try to make a Baha'i of you.  ABU2518

However, all those gifts of heart and soul and freedom of conscience were preliminaries for the manifestation and emergence of the greatest gifts in the Day of the appearance of the merciful Lord.  AB06130

Let there be some consideration of European history - as long as there were such religious and sectarian attacks, nation and government declined day by day. When justice and equality were achieved, this progress was made.  AB06151

Praise be to God! The standard of liberty is held aloft in this land. You enjoy political liberty; you enjoy liberty of thought and speech, religious liberty, racial and personal liberty. Surely this is worthy of appreciation and thanksgiving.  ABU0009

It is not permitted to compel anyone in matters of religion. Truth hath been distinguished from error. Therefore, whosoever believeth in God, turning away from others, hath grasped the divine cord of guidance and been delivered from the depths of darkness. Never hath it been permissible to force people into God's religion.   BH00779

We desire neither absolute despotism, nor unbounded liberty. If in Iran they grant absolute liberty with no opposition against the Faith, it would not be of benefit to us. Nay, freedom makes people lazy. We wish neither the pogroms, the imprisonment, the beatings of the past, nor the complete freedom given in other countries.   ABU1687

They must do as they wish; they must solve their own problems; they are grown-ups. We do not like to tell people what they should do in these matters. My work is universal; my time and thoughts are for the whole world on the most important problems relating to affairs that concern the spiritual welfare of nations and individuals.   ABU1898

Its citizens are enjoying the greatest amount of political and civic freedom. No one is harassed by secret fears, and expresses his thoughts freely and with no compunction. The sphere of the minds is made radiant with dazzling Ideals and the circle for the discussion of progressive and advanced problems of the age as wide as heaven.   ABU0224

As to what you asked about Our making you free in your turning to God, such that whenever you wish you could turn to the holy court - know that in this request you have made yourself a partner with your Lord, for He is the Free, and He has not taken, nor will He ever take, any partner unto Himself. He permits you in this as He wills, by His command.   BH03468

There are three types of freedom. The first is divine freedom, which is one of the inherent attributes of the Creator for He is unconstrained in His will, and no one can force Him to change His decree in any matter whatsoever... The second is the political freedom of Europeans, which leaves the individual free to do whatsoever he desires as long as his action does not harm his neighbour. This is natural freedom, and its greatest expression is seen in the animal world. Observe these birds and notice with what freedom they live. However much man may try, he can never be as free as an animal, because the existence of order acts as an impediment to freedom.... The third freedom is that which is born of obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Almighty. This is the freedom of the human world, where man severs his affections from all things. When he does so, he becomes immune to all hardship and sorrow. Wealth or material power will not deflect him from moderation and fairness, neither will poverty or need inhibit him from showing forth happiness and tranquillity. The more the conscience of man develops, the more will his heart be free and his soul attain unto happiness. In the religion of God, there is freedom of thought because God, alone, controls the human conscience, but this freedom should not go beyond courtesy. In the religion of God, there is no freedom of action outside the law of God. Man may not transgress this law, even though no harm is inflicted on one's neighbour. This is because the purpose of Divine law is the education of all -- others as well as oneself -- and, in the sight of God, the harm done to one individual or to his neighbour is the same and is reprehensible in both cases. Hearts must possess the fear of God. Man should endeavour to avoid that which is abhorrent unto God. Therefore, the freedom that the laws of Europe offer to the individual does not exist in the law of God. Freedom of thought should not transgress the bounds of courtesy, and actions, likewise, should be governed by the fear of God and the desire to seek His good pleasure. ABU0914


