
Ye are the children of God and he has endowed you with the possibilities of infinite progress.   ABU0928

The goal to be reach is perfection according to kind or station, and this perfection is happiness.   ABU2886

A person characterized with these attributes will gather the fruits of his labors and will win the happiness of the kingdom.  ABU2961

Day by day you must grow. Day by day you must develop. Day by day you must attain to beauty. Day by day you must draw nearer to maturity.  ABU1485

This station is the ultimate result of human life; this station is the true fruit of existence; this station is the pearl of human consummation, the shining star toward which human destiny points.  ABU2290

It is the desire of my heart and soul that in this path ye may travel along all the degrees of existence and attain to the loftiest horizon of the ideal virtues and the pinnacles of human excellences  AB03583

Whoever strives harder to acquire the perfections of the world of humanity and demonstrates the more virtuous character will be nearer to the threshold of God and make the greater degree of progress.  ABU3719

Strive night and day to change men into fruitful trees, virgin forests into divine orchards and deserts into rose gardens of significance. Light these lamps, that the dark world may become illumined.   ABU1016

Human life and spiritual living consist in attaining perfection in all stations - absolutely no deficiency remained in any aspect. In all conditions he was assisted by the favors of the Incomparable Lord.  AB00857

A seed has reached to the station of Nirvana once it springs out of the earth, it grows, putting forth trunk, branches, leaves, blossoms, and finally luscious, ripe fruits. The fruit is the Nirvana of the tree.  ABU2250

In short, they have become the image of that which God planned them to be and which the Heavenly Books promised shall be the true station of Man. This is the power, purpose, and virtue of the Heavenly Springtime.  ABU1273

Whereas formerly he was a coward, he becomes courageous. Whereas before he was debased, he becomes sanctified and holy. Even in his intelligence, his knowledge, his sagacity and his mentality he is a different man.  ABU2875

The wisdom of the appearance of the spirit in the body is this: The human spirit is a divine trust which must traverse every degree, for traversing and passing through the degrees of existence is the means of its acquiring perfections.   AB00919

Strive with heart and soul to become manifestations of divine favors and dawning-places of the bounty of the All-Glorious Lord. Consider this opportunity a treasure and strive with heart and soul to become the source of every good and the wellspring of human virtues.   AB01976

Consider what was the quickening power of the Christ when He was on earth. Look at His disciples! They were poor and uncultured men. Out of the rough fisherman He made the great Peter, and out of the poor village girl of Magdala He made one who is a power in all the world today.   ABU2200

This is the outcome of life! This is the result of ceaseless endeavour! This is the prize to be won! This is the illumination of the world of humanity! This is Eternal Life! This is the sublimity of human nature! This is the Heavenly Glory! This is the radiant crown of the Kingdom of Abha!   ABU1029

The aim of the prophet of God is to raise man to the degree of knowledge of his potentiality and to illumine him through the light of the kingdom, to transform ignorance into wisdom, injustice into justice, error into knowledge, cruelty into affection and incapability into progress. In short, to make all the attainments of existence resplendent in him.  ABU0902

Furthermore it is incumbent upon the friends to acquire spiritual perfections as well as these outward attainments. Praise be to God that their capacities are great and they are being aided and confirmed in every turn. They must at all times think how to become the focal point of these perfections, how to be the collective centre of these mysteries of insight and understanding and how to cause these wondrous deeds to come to fruition.  AB02126

Therefore we must act in accordance with the teachings of God. We must strive to rescue ourselves from the last stage of the arc of descent and begin ascending the arc of ascent. Thus shall we be enabled to attain to our utmost desires, which are the promulgation of the principle of the oneness of mankind, achievement of deeds beneficial to all humanity, service in the path of international peace, entrance into the kingdom of God, and the acquirement of life everlasting.  ABU0214

I pray in behalf of these children and beg confirmation and assistance for them from the Kingdom of Abha so that each one may be trained under the shadow of the protection of God, each may become like a lighted candle in the world of humanity, a tender and growing plant in the rose garden of Abha; that these children may be so trained and educated that they shall give life to the world of humanity; that they may receive insight; that they may bestow hearing upon the people of the world; that they may sow the seeds of eternal life and be accepted in the threshold of God.   ABU0528
