Attaining unto this Mountain [Mount Carmel] was the ultimate desire of the Prophets, and it is the point of adoration of the Supreme Concourse. All the past Manifestations have given glad-tidings regarding this place and this Dispensation, and their highest aspiration was to witness such a Day and to behold and take part in such happenings. Here the tabernacle of the Most Great Peace will be hoisted and the foundation of the wondrous Divine Order will be established. All this land will be built and developed.  ABU2213

'Akka and Haifa will be connected, and all this land will be fertile and developed.'   ABU2473

The day has come in which Carmel is revived and is rejoicing. That day has come for you to return to Palestine and see how it is flourishing.  ABU3142

In the future, on foot and holding bouquets of flowers above their heads and carrying wreaths, the monarchs of the earth will come on pilgrimage to the Sacred Shrines.   ABU1489

The spiritual inheritance coming down from an age of the prophets and going back to an era of the Patriarchs and the sacred stories and blessed traditions woven around every spot - will make this place most cherished and beloved by all mankind.  ABU2258

Look at the spiritual side of Haifa, not the material side and see how spiritual it is. The prophets appeared in this region. For this reason spiritual susceptibilities come to man here. One forgets the troubles and anxieties of the world of nature.  ABU1012

This is true; but I am not training thee for these parts; the field of thy labor is beyond these limited confines. As thou knowest it is very easy for us to teach and spread the Cause in this country but the government will rise immediately against us and the Blessed Tombs of Baha'u'llah and the Bab will be demolished by the hands of a fanatical mob. This is one of the many reasons that we must not raise our voice in Turkey.   ABU0624

God willing, a day will come when that region and land will become a divine rose garden and the Most Glorious Kingdom will encompass it. This is the desire of the sincere ones and this is the hope of the unitarians.   AB01418

The rocky crags of this mountain shall be transformed into gardens of flowers and roses, and shall become a place of pilgrimage for all the peoples of the world. The edifice of the Most Exalted Shrine shall be expanded.  ABU2847

All of these barren fields will become fertile and cultivated. The scattered tribes of the Jewish people will be united. This region will become the center of industry and commerce, and will be refined and populated. Of this there is no doubt.   ABU1125

Now, in addition to the myriad powerful lamps that will floodlight this mountain brightly, I can see Mashriqu'l-Adhkars, hospitals, schools, homes for the handicapped, orphanages, and all other humanitarian enterprises will be erected on Mount Carmel.  ABU1689

As for the return of Israel once again to Jerusalem, this is universal and not confined to the divine friends alone. However, after their gathering, they shall ultimately be attracted to the Dawn of Reality and enter beneath the shadow of the Glorious Lord.  AB11382

I now behold the whole of this mountain basking in brilliant lights and the Haifa harbor as the anchor point of thousands of steam ships...Likewise verily I see and behold the future effulgence of hospitals, schools and sanatoriums and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar established on this mountain.  ABU1913

The area between Akka and Haifa will all become developed. It will all become gardens, orchards and buildings. There will be beautiful gardens. It will be such that one can walk from Haifa to Akka under the shade of trees. This sea will be filled with ships. Between Haifa and Akka ships will drop anchor.  ABU1912

Colonel Allison asked about the present and future of Syria and Palestine. 'Abdu'l-Baha: "Palestine, it is clear, will be for England, and Syria will remain in the hands of France. France will hold Syria, temporarily, but in the end it will come under English control. Now France will remain there temporarily. Syria will progress. Especially Palestine, in the same way as Egypt. Egypt has progressed very much under the English.  If the Muhammadans, Christians and Jews unite, there will be great progress. The Jews are unpopular now, but they will progress, and they will come here to reside. In the Books of the Prophets this promise has been given and in the Tablets of the Blessed Beauty for the Jews of Persia, He has written that the promises which have been given to you, 'that you will be gathered together', will be fulfilled. Forty years ago He wrote this. Many of the Jews of Persia have become Baha'is and blessed souls have entered the Cause." ABU1216

In the future there will be seven beautiful, terraced gardens from the base of the mountain up to the Holy Tomb. Then the scene will be most ravishing and unexcelled in the whole world. The mountain covered with fragrant flowers, the bright sun shining upon it with its vital, life-giving rays, the educational and charitable institutions springing up here and there  ABU2258

Mount Carmel will be a Mountain of Knowledge, Peace, and Protection in the future----the vineyard of God. We will not live to see this in the body but will view it spiritually. Mount Carmel will someday be covered with great universities and colleges of learning. Then the poor will enjoy the highest advantages from the establishment here of free institutions of education.   ABU1699

All these fields will become schools, hospitals, homes for the elderly, orphanages, and various hostels. Eventually the kings of the earth will come from Haifa, from the Most Exalted Spot, carrying urns of flowers on their heads to the Holy Shrine. Akka and Haifa will become one in the future. All of it will become gardens and palaces and buildings and a place of pilgrimage for all who dwell on earth.   ABU0463

Haifa will develop to such a degree that this mountain will be covered entirely in light. From here to 'Akka will be connected by roads and on each side trees will be planted. This will be become the most important port in the world. Innumerable ships will come and go. I now see ships have anchored in this bay, and with utmost humility and modesty monarchs will come to visit the Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab].  ABU3654

As for the events at the Holy Spot, this land is in turmoil, and all are expecting that a great calamity will befall these wanderers, and suddenly some matter will occur and this land will be transformed. However, the tranquility, composure and dignity of Abdu'l-Baha keeps all calm, to such an extent that perhaps a newcomer might think nothing is happening. But the divine friends must never be affected by the occurrences in this land and must not await news and events from this land.  AB05127

Ere long this mountain will be developed. Many fine buildings will be raised upon it. The Shrine of the Bab will be constructed in the best possible way and most majestically. It will be surrounded with many gardens, displaying multitudes of flowers. Nine terraces will be constructed from the bottom of the mountain to the Shrine of the Bab, and nine more will be above it to the summit of the mountain. A boulevard will connect the seafront to the foot of the mountain, and it too will have gardens filled with flowers.  ABU2167

Blessed art thou, O Land of Syria! The Morn of Manifestation hath breathed within thee, and thereby hath the fragrance of God been diffused throughout all else. In this moment the cry of Zion hath been raised and Mount Carmel rejoiceth at the sea of attainment. O Carmel! Thou didst taste the poison of separation through ages and centuries; now the honey of reunion hath come unto thee, inasmuch as the Countenance of the Ancient of Days hath turned toward thee from this direction which was recorded in the Mother Book by the Pen of the All-Merciful.   BH01341

"The day will come when this mountain will be resplendent with light,--lights from top to bottom. On one side of it there will be a hotel, a universal hotel. Its door will be open to all the people of the world. Whoever comes will be a guest. On the other side of the mountain there will be a university in which all the higher sciences will be taught. On another part of it there will be a Mashreq'ul Azkar. On another part of it there will be a home for the incurables. In still another part there will be a home for the poor. In still another part there will be a home for orphans."  ABU1954

The city of Haifa and the city of Akka will become one city due to extensive development, and the plain between these two cities will be entirely transformed into gardens, groves, and magnificent buildings. A wide, orderly, level, and adorned road, in the utmost elegance, delicacy, and beauty, will be extended from Mount Carmel to the sea, and tall, verdant trees will cast shadows and add to the pleasantness and freshness of the air. Leaders and kings of various peoples will come in groups to visit the Holy Shrine and the Most Exalted Shrine. Akka and Haifa will become a great center of magnificent enterprises and the dawning-place of the lights of sciences and arts.  ABU0288

The view from this hospice is very beautiful, especially because it faces the tomb of the Blessed Beauty and Acca. In the future it will be built up between Acca and Haifa. Acca and Haifa will be joined together and will take the first place in the world. Now, as I glance into the future, I see the greatest port in the world here. This semi-circular bay will be a large harbor for ships, so that the entering boats may be protected from the waves and winds of the storm. This harbor will be filled with ships of the nations. All of these regions will be decorated by buildings and lofty palaces. Many gardens and flower beds will be made. There will be electric lights and from here to Acca will be flooded with them.  ABU1526

Ships carrying the flag of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha! will anchor at the port [of Haifa] and kings will disembark. On foot and bareheaded, and with humility and modesty, and in a state of supplication and entreaty, chanting divine verses and prayers, they will attain to a visit of the Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab]. On the path to the Shrine of the Exalted One, there will be pools of water, gardens and places for rest and respite. Afterwards, with bouquets of flowers over their shoulders, and while reciting divine verses and prayers, they will visit the Shrine of Baha'u'llah. At that time, after the bay is drained, a straight avenue will be constructed connecting the Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab] to the Shrine of Baha'u'llah.  ABU3684

In the future the distance between Acca and Haifa will be built up and the two cities will join and clasp hands, becoming the two terminal sections of one mighty metropolis. As I look now over this scene I see it so clearly that it will become one of the first emporiums of the world. This great semi-circular arm of the Mediterranean will be transformed into the finest harbor wherein the ships of all the nations will seek shelter and refuge. The great vessels of all the people will come to this port, bringing on their decks thousands and thousands of men and women from every part of the globe. The mountain and the plain will be dotted with most modern buildings and palaces. Industries will be established and institutions of various philanthropic nature will be found.   ABU1109

Likewise Israel, which had been scattered throughout the world, was not gathered together in the Holy Land in the course of the Christian Dispensation, but in the beginning of the Dispensation of Baha'u'llah this divine promise, which has been clearly stated in all the Books of the Prophets, has begun to materialize. Observe how from all corners of the world Jewish peoples are coming to the Holy Land, acquiring villages and lands to inhabit, and increasing day by day to such an extent that all Palestine is becoming their home.  AB00091

