Adorn your hands with generosity   BH11527

When we find something we share it, and when we lack we give thanks.  BH01986

Giving should be a joy to the giver, however poor he maybe, or however small his gift.  ABU1047

If the believers of God display generosity, that school will progress day by day in all its grades.  AB11303

Grace, generosity, favor and charity should be universal - surely this is more pleasing and attractive.   AB01506

If you possess a word or gem that others are deprived of, share it with them in utmost kindliness and goodwill  ABU1751

If thou findest a bounty from the grace of thy Lord, give freely thereof; and if thou findest not, then be thankful.   BH06047

This esteemed person made such an undertaking and made such a contribution...such an illustrious person would make such a sacrifice   AB02585

thou must be munificent and become known and celebrated through generosity, for munificence is superior to justice...munificence is grace and bestowal  AB10632

She spent her wealth upon the weak and the poor...Her generosity was as a flowing spring to every thirsty soul, and a comfort to every wanderer and wayfarer.  AB02858

As much as you can, in gratitude for this bounty, show kindness to stranger and kin alike. Be a kind friend to every destitute one, become divine bounty for every poor one.  AB06988

The generous one is he who spends upon himself that which has been sent down from the presence of One Who is All-Knowing, All-Aware. He is indeed of the people of generosity in this luminous horizon.  BH10168

Through the bounty of the Most Glorious Beauty, the treasure of the Kingdom has been prepared for the loved ones. Therefore, giving is the cause of receiving blessings from the Luminary of the horizons.  AB08607

Even in prison thou thinkest of giving. Those who are free should strive to give to the imprisoned, yet this shows to what degree the friends of God are immersed in the sea of detachment and devoted to sacrificing their wealth and lives.   AB02192

For example, if we consider a person who does not have even a cent to his name, we cannot determine from his indigence alone whether he is generous or miserly. A person who enjoys great wealth, however, is in a position where his generosity or miserliness can be clearly demonstrated.  ABU2562

Like the sun, he must shine on all and bestow his light on every land. You see that the infinite mercy of God embraces the whole of creation and knows no bias. The people of Baha must be the manifestations of this mercy and perform their charity similarly without any condition or intent.   ABU1168


By the life of God! If someone gives even one dinar to a deserving soul for the sake of God, or shows love to another, their mention will never be erased from the ledger of the world. This is a seed that will forever be adorned with the ornament of verdancy. This is a fruit that will forever be visible on the Tree of deeds.  BH10940

The attributes of generosity, of munificence and magnanimity can only be manifested in the reality of man when he ariseth to sacrifice himself in the path of God. True bounty belongs to him who draweth forth his hand from out the sleeve of the love of God so as to bestow upon the world and all its peoples the favours borne of the holy and sanctified perfections of the Lord.  AB10074


Generosity and beneficence are of two types: there is the generosity that pertains to this world and there is magnanimity that is of the eternal kingdom. Whatever pertains to this world is the right of everyone and of universal benefit for "unto everyone there is a portion from this vast billowing ocean" but that beneficence which comes from the Kingdom is specific to those chosen by God Himself and is a special attribute of those who sacrifice their all in the path of the All-Glorious Lord.  AB05072

