One day at table, he [Sutherland Maxwell] said to 'Abdu'l-Baha: The Christians worship God through Christ; my wife worships God through You; but I worship Him direct. 'Abdu'l-Baha smiled and said: Where is He? Why, God is everywhere, replied Sutherland. Everywhere is nowhere, said 'Abdu'l-Baha.  ABU3640

The axis around which the consolation of the hearts revolve is the Faith in God. If the father of a youth who believes in God is killed in the war - he will say to himself I have God for my father, whose Fatherhood is eternal. He is the Comforter of the broken-hearted ones. The miraculous power of Faith will cheer them up and heal their wounds.  ABU1099

This people, all of them, have pictured a god in the realm of the mind, and worship that image which they have made for themselves. And yet that image is comprehended, the human mind being the comprehender thereof, and certainly the comprehender is greater than that which lieth within its grasp; for imagination is but the branch, while mind is the root; and certainly the root is greater than the branch. Consider then, how all the peoples of the world are bowing the knee to a fancy of their own contriving, how they have created a creator within their own minds, and they call it the Fashioner of all that is -- whereas in truth it is but an illusion. Thus are the people worshipping only an error of perception.  AB01117

The wrath of God is the erroneous designation for logic, causality, in brief, the justice of God. If we ignore God, He will ignore us and subject us to His unchangeable laws of nature; if we avoid Him, He will retreat from our lives. He, the Creator, lets His Sun rise over the just (those loving God) and the unjust (those far from God), but the first have the dew of His blessing, the latter shiver under the mildew of His curse!  And in what consists this curse? In this, that the Lord God will no longer stand in a personal relationship to us, but in an objective one. We are no longer His heirs, but we have become debtors estranged from our own nature and paradise, who can only expect a businesslike accounting, not a fatherly embrace!   ABU2114

The epitome of all worship is the worship of the attributes of Christ, not his personality.  ABU1729
