
If Thou wishest me to live, Through me blow Thy holy breath. The touch of Jesus Thou wilt give To me, who've lain an age in death. Thou, both End and Origin, Thou without and Thou within  --  From every eye Thou hidest well, And yet in every eye dost dwell.  AB00002


Know that an Arab Bedouin asked Ali about the "Face of God" mentioned in the divine verse "Whithersoever ye turn, there is the Face of God." Ali said "Wait, I will show you through direct witness." He ordered that fire and wood be brought and lit. When the fire was fully burning in the wood, Ali asked the Bedouin, "What is the face of the fire?" The Arab replied, "It is all face, from every direction." Ali said, "We are like that - the Face of God." Now observe the tree and the fire - through their connection and relationship, the face of the fire appears. Similarly with the Face of God: when God created the Primal Tree and created fire from that tree and connected them, it ignited and the face of the fire appeared, which is His face.  BB00344

Wheresoever ye may be, verily He is with you   BH09937

Verily He, in His own Self, the Truth, hath ever encompassed all the worlds   BH10395

the Gulf that hath branched out of this Ocean that hath encompassed all created things  BH11576

Do we not see the signs and traces of God - the Unknowable, primal Cause - scattered all about us?   ABU2507

These souls are prostrate in worship and in utmost supplication before the Kingdom of the visible world.   AB12057

The sun that would come down and enter everything would not remain the sun. Its identity would be scattered.   ABU3541

Nothing can comprehend Him, but He comprehendeth all things by His command. There is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Exalted.  BB00004

The (Holy) Spirit is encompassing and surrounding all. It is present everywhere and at every time. It exists in all places, yet is placeless.  ABU3438

as we can only see different objects by the light of the sun, one might in one sense and with truth say the aim is in everything. In this sense also is our Lord Christ in everything.   ABU3187


Verily God is near in His remoteness and remote in His nearness. Will ye not stand in awe? Say: Were there an atom in a rock beneath the seventh sea, verily God would know it and would be nearer to it than itself, and would know its secret and its whisper and its beginning.  BB00003

"Only one who is heedless of God is alone. But if one is mindful of God, even if they are in a vast waterless and barren desert, they are not alone - God is with them."  AB05304


Say: God manifesteth Himself through all things, if ye would but see. Say: God is nearer than all things, if ye would but witness. Say: God is more hidden than all things, if ye would but perceive.  BB00004

Many who wrote or visited 'Abdu'l-Baha would ask this question: God being omnipresent, why would it not be enough to concentrate on His presence in the natural world, rather than to believe in a man, a Prophet, claiming to be the intermediary between man and God? As, for example, Jesus claimed, when He said, 'I am the way. . . no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. ' As His Tablets and addresses show, the Master gave many answers to this question. When Khan was in the Holy Land, 'Abdu'l-Baha made this reply to an American inquirer: There was once an Arab traveler who had lost his way in the desert. He was dying of thirst and, humbly, he begged God for water. Suddenly on the far horizon he saw an oasis with waving trees, and he knew that there could be no trees and greenery unless water was present too. When he had somehow dragged himself across the sands and reached the oasis, how did he go about quenching his thirst? Was his conviction enough for him, that growing things meant water? Or did he search avidly for a source, a crack in a rock or an opening in the earth where water could get through and he could drink and live?  ABU1594

Some of the philosophers believe that God is the Supreme Reality and that every human being has a spark of this divine reality within him; that He Himself is in a state of utmost power and that all things manifest Him according to their different capacities. Therefore they hold that the Supreme Being is dispersed into infinite forms. This is the position of Plato. But we say that existence as conceived by man or comprehended through human reason or intellect is a characteristic of matter. Matter is like unto essence, while existence is its manifestation. The body of man is essence and existence is dependent upon it. This human body is matter while existence is a power conditioned on matter. But it is not so with the Essential Self-Existent One. His existence is true existence which is self-subsistent, not an intellectually perceived and comprehended existence; it is an Existence by which all created things come into being. All things are like unto His handiwork and are dependent upon Him. We refer to Him as Self-Existent because we need to make use of a term but we do not mean that that Being can be contained within our comprehension. What is intended is the Reality from Whom all things emanate, the Reality through Whom all things exist. ABU1537

But the Baha'is say there is God, the creatures and the medium. They state that the Reality of Divinity is Absolute Independence; if it comes within the circle of necessity, It is not Divinity; the Reality of Divinity is Absolute Perfection but the creatures are pure imperfection.  ABU0549

The similitude of God is like the sun, and the similitude of creation is like objects. In every particle there is a radiance and brilliance from the sun. Likewise, in every mystery there is a secret, and in every horizon there is a light from that peerless Beloved and unique Essence.  AB00791

The essence of God is not a body like water to be contained within the body of the earthen bowl - man - a body within a body...it has not left its transcendent station in order to find an entrance into the mirror, but it is ever stationed in its own center of grandeur and perpetuity.  ABU2024

Thou art nearer than nearness itself to itself, and Thou art more glorious than glory itself in its essence. Thou art unique in the sanctification of divinity with beauty beyond beauty. O Beloved! Thou art He Who is known through all things, yet I know no one known through the knowledge of Thy Essence.  BB00012

The ancient philosophers of Greece, Persia, and Egypt believed that God manifested in material things His final and supreme Reality. This supreme reality has been likened to the water of the sea, and material things to its waves. This view of the universe is wrong. Because the One is perfect, while all material things are imperfect.   ABU1567

From eternity all things have glorified Thee, sanctified Thee, unified Thee, magnified Thee and extolled Thee. When wert Thou ever absent that nothing could behold Thee? When wert Thou ever hidden that nothing could witness Thee? Thou art the Manifest through Whose manifestation all are veiled, and Thou art the Hidden through Whose concealment all are made manifest.   BB00258

The Prophets, however, hold that there is the world of God, the world of the Kingdom, and the world of creation: three things. The first emanation is the outpouring grace of the Kingdom, which has emanated from God and has appeared in the realities of all things, even as the rays emanating from the sun are reflected in all things. And that grace--the rays--appears in infinite forms in the realities of all things, and is specified and individuated according to their capacity, receptivity, and essence.  AB00062


All the creatures are chanting the verses of oneness with their tongues of consciousness and reality.  AB04998
