
He is the Describer of Himself and the Praiser of Himself. He hath no need for mention by anyone. His is the creation and the command, and He is the Mighty, the All-Choosing.   BH01579

It is the cause of creation and its manifestation, as expressed in His exalted Word: "I was a hidden treasure and loved to be known, therefore I created creation that I might be known."  BH00594

Veiled in My immemorial being and in the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty.  BH00386

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Thine Essence hath ever praised Thine Essence, Thy Being hath ever sanctified Thy Being, Thy Self hath ever unified Thy Self, and Thine Entity hath ever magnified Thine Entity.  BB00082

That invisible Essence is established upon the throne in the unseen divine realm and plays the game of love with Its own love. The Friend played love with Himself in pre-existence Without us and without I and we  AB00791

Glory be to Thee! Glory be to Thee! Forever hath the description of Thy Essence been Thine Essence, and the attribute of Thy Self been Thy Self, for naught besides Thee existed at Thy level nor was mentioned with Thee.  BB00050

Thereupon a Voice replied: "I love, I dearly cherish this emblem. How can I consent that Mine eyes, alone, gaze upon this emblem, and that no heart except Mine heart recognize it? By My Beauty, which is the same as Thy Beauty!"   BH09299

The third is the love of God towards the Self or Identity of God. This is the transfiguration of His Beauty, the reflection of Himself in the mirror of His Creation. This is the reality of love, the Ancient Love, the Eternal Love. Through one ray of this Love all other love exists.   ABU0651

In every condition Thou dost unify Thine own Essence through Thine Essence, and at every moment Thou dost magnify Thine eternity through Thine eternity, for all that appeareth from contingent beings is as naught before Thee, and whatsoever cometh from created things befitteth not the majesty of Thy holiness.  BB00028

The Purpose of the world is worthy of mention, but what manner of mention should it be and from whom should it come? There has never been any doubt that mention other than His own is not befitting Him as it should be. Thereby it is established that His mention is acceptable only unto Himself and His utterance is befitting only unto His Essence.   BH01414

None hath known God save His holy Essence, and none hath unified God save His holy Essence. Whosoever claimeth to know Him is an infidel, by the testimony of his own self which is contingent and temporal. And whosoever claimeth to unify Him is a polytheist, by the testimony of his own self, for association with Him is impossible, and it is impossible to attribute names and descriptions to His Essence.  BB00017

And as for the Divine Soul (an-nafs al-ilahiyyah), it consists of the Universal Reality which brings together all of the Divine realities of the realm of Primal Manifestation (lahutiyyah) and the eternal secrets, the outer aspect of which is the ancient light and the inner aspect is the most mighty and sublime mystery, the Primal Point from which appear all things and to which they revert, from which they originate and to which they return.  AB00007

