

There can be no creator without a creation. The sun without light and a king without subjects and a country are simply inconceivable.   ABU3115

The names and attributes of God require the existence of things, and no cessation in the outpouring of God's ancient grace can ever be contemplated, for this would be contrary to the divine perfections.  AB00839

The Ever-living God hath ever been invested with all names and attributes, and whatever is required by these names and attributes hath existed and will continue to exist forever. The Creator must have creation; the Provider must have those to provide for; the King must needs have a realm, an army, a canopy, a standard, and retinue. This divine sovereignty is eternal sovereignty, most ancient; at no time hath it been in abeyance, for a king without realm and army is but a man of no consequence, and the Absolute Wealthy One, if His purse be empty, would be like a fruitless cypress tree.  AB00262

Thou hast ever been a God unworship'd, a Lord unlord'd, a Known unknown, a Power unpowered, a Hearer unheard. When Thou didst desire to create that creation, Thou didst manifest the Manifestation of Thy Self. Through what was manifest of Thy Divinity in Him appeared the objects of worship, through the revelation of Thy Lordship in Him appeared the objects of lordship, through the manifestation of Thy knowledge in Him appeared the objects of knowledge, through the revelation of Thy power in Him appeared the objects of power, and through the manifestation of Thy hearing in Him appeared the objects of hearing.  BB00003

Knowledge presupposes the existence of certain beings who are possessed of intellect. Were it not for this power of understanding, how could we have any idea at all of God? The term Creator presupposes the existence of created beings. Were it not that we were created, how could we conceive of the Creator? In thinking of the Provider, one presupposes certain beings who are provided for, and One Who provides. In speaking of the Life-giver, one thinks of life. Were it not for the living ones, how could there be any thoughts about the Life-giver? The idea Giver supposes the idea of recipients. Were it not for the Divine Giver, how could we think of One Who was to give?   ABU0335

There can be no creator without a creation. The sun without light and a king without subjects and a country are simply inconceivable.   ABU3115

"The names and attributes of Divinity are requirements of this world. The names the Powerful, the Living, the Provider, the Creator require and necessitate the existence of creatures. If there were no creatures, Creator would be meaningless. If there were none to provide for, we could not think of the Provider. If there were no life, the Living would be beyond the power of conception."  ABU0403
