
I testify to Thy independence of me and of all things, and I acknowledge Thy oneness before all things and after all things and above all things and beneath all things and to the right of all things and to the left of all things, that Thou hast ever been and wilt ever be free from the praise of any besides Thee and sanctified from that which Thy creation may acclaim.  BB00011

That which ye imagine to be the unity of God is but fancy - profess not His unity except with certainty. This is the Tree of Affirmation - take shelter in its shade that your profession of unity may be raised unto God.  BB00004

So that all may acknowledge His oneness and confess His unity, and all may attain unto every good through recognition of His oneness, and all may achieve every excellence through confession of His unity.   BB00621

He has ever been One in His Essence and One in His attributes.   BH06392

who have acknowledged Thy oneness and confessed Thy singleness   BH09869

Thou art He to Whose oneness and singleness all have testified.   BH07774

they who, O my God, have acknowledged Thy unity and Thy oneness   BH06028

Thou hast ever been one in Thy Essence and one in Thy attributes   BH06400

Say: There is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise  BH05465

Verily He speaketh in all things: "There is none other God but Me!"   BH07642

I beseech Thee by the oneness which Thou hast made the garment of Thy Self   BH10423

The atoms bear witness to Thy oneness, and all created things to Thy unity.   BH07454

May Mr. Haji Muhammad Ibrahim have hope in the grace of the Lord of Oneness.  AB11560

the splendors of Thy moon of oneness have shone forth upon all created things  BH10846

In His Name through Whom was raised the Banner of Divine Unity upon the world!  BH11292

'Verily, there is none other God but Him, the One, the Single, the All-Knowing.'  BH10491

your recognition of the oneness of God and your acknowledgment of His singleness   AB11969

Glorified art Thou, O God! Thou art the God besides Whom there is none other God.   BB00245

There is none other God but He, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise   BH06333

verily He is One in His essence and then in His actions, were ye of them that know   BH05976

"that they may unite upon the word of Thy singleness within the temple of Thy oneness"   BH02622

didst elevate the pavilions of the Cause upon the throne of the glory of Thine oneness   BH10620

I testify to Thy oneness and Thy singleness and to Thy power, Thy might and Thy dominion.  BH07538

He hath ever been One in His Essence, having taken neither partner nor peer unto Himself.   BH03790

All created things bear witness to Thy singleness, and all existing things to Thy oneness.   BH04742

He hath ever been one God, Single, Individual, Alone, Everlasting, Eternal, Self-Subsisting.   BH01228

The servant doth witness, and will continue to witness, that there is none other God but Him.  BH11075

and taught them the oneness of Thy Being and Thy sanctification from all peers and likenesses   BH07214

God bears witness that there is no God but Him... maintaining justice; there is no God but Him  BB00278

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him... Verily, there is none other God but Him.   BH09892

All praise be to Thee for having caused me to acknowledge Thy oneness and confess Thy singleness  BH05270

Thou hast ever been one God, single, unique, ever-living, self-subsisting, eternal, everlasting.   BB00310

The Wronged One testifieth to God's unity and oneness, to His might and grandeur and sovereignty.   BH10607

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him... He, verily, is the Single One, the One   BH05416

The spiritual wine of oneness is prepared and the Bearer of the eternal countenance is the Cup-Bearer   BH11015

and for having enabled me to acknowledge the oneness of Thy Being when humanity was in severe denial.   BH06796

and for having acknowledged the oneness and singleness of God when every rejected learned one denied Him.  BH04100

thou didst acknowledge the unity of God and His justice when the banner of tyranny was raised in the world   BH10981

Thus do I acknowledge Thy oneness and confess Thy singleness, submitting to Thy grandeur and Thy sovereignty  BH06688

O my Lord! Thou seest him who hath turned toward Thee and hearest his confession of Thy oneness and singleness.  BH10269

by Thy Name through which the pavilion of polytheism was destroyed and the canopy of divine unity was raised up  BH08243

Praise be to God, it spoke of divine unity and the sanctification of His holy Being from any likeness or peer.   BH07041

And say: Praise be to God Who hath taken unto Himself neither consort nor son, and all are submissive unto Him.   BB00500

O my God, direct and keep Thy Servants to accomplish any deeds acceptable before Thee in the Cause of Thy unity.  AB11517

All created things have borne witness to Thy unity, and every dweller in Thy kingdom hath confessed Thy oneness.   BH04053

Every possessor of a tongue hath testified to Thy oneness and every possessor of understanding to Thy singleness.   BH03112

There is none other God but God... God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, before and hereafter   BB00392

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who speaketh is indeed the Single One, the All-Informed.  BH07708

Say: He is God, the One! God, the Eternal! He begetteth not, nor was begotten, and there is none comparable unto Him   BB00413

I testify that Thou art God, there is none other God but Thee...acknowledging Thy oneness and confessing Thy singleness   BH07126

From the beginning that has no beginning, the lights of the glory of divine unity have shone forth without pause or delay  BH01905

I testify that Thou hast ever been One, Single, Self-Subsisting, Alone, and wilt continue to be what Thou hast always been.   BH07899

Say: God hath ever been one God, Single, Eternal, Self-Subsisting, Living, the Self-Sustaining, and there was none with Him.  BB00004

the King of Your Oneness...the Presence of Your Singleness...the Beauty of Your Unity...the Kingdom of Your Self-Subsistence  AB09676

But the oneness and singleness of God is even for heavenly minds upon earth, a most difficult spiritual truth to comprehend.  ABU1762

Thou art God and there is none other God but Thee... There is none other God but Thee, the Self-Sufficient, the Most Exalted   BH08384

The first matter that leads to faith, certitude, sanctification and detachment is My oneness, free from all peers and equals.   BH08441

There shalt thou see what thou lovest - thou shalt love none save God. Is it not enough that thy Lord encompasseth all things?   BB00288

Say: O my God, my God! I testify to Thy oneness and Thy singleness. Thou hast no likeness in creation nor any equal in invention.  BH04007

"this station is described as Divine Oneness and Al-'Ama', and it is the station of the Hidden Treasure mentioned in the Hadith."  AB06442

bear witness to that whereunto God did bear witness before the creation of earth and heaven, that there is none other God but Him   BH06936

Say: Your God is one God, Lord of the heavens and Lord of the earth and whatsoever is between them, Lord of the East and of the West.  BB00004

And therein did the Sun of Thy oneness shine forth from the horizon of the House upon all who dwell in the unseen and the visible realms  BH07443

Thou hast ever been One God, Single, Sole, Self-Subsisting, and wilt ever continue to be even as Thou hast been. There is no God but Thee   BH08372

And if I say "He is Thou," in that moment the face of Thy revelation speaketh forth in the presence of unity that there is no God but Him   BB00385

And none knoweth how this is save him whom Thou hast acquainted with the repositories of Thy Oneness and the treasuries of Thine eternity.   BH08310

"My God, my God! I testify to Thy oneness and Thy singleness, and that Thou hast no partner in Thy dominion nor any equal in Thy kingdom."   BH04436

There is none other God beside Me, the Single, the All-Informed. Say: Whosoever affirmeth a likeness hath indeed associated partners with God   BH06674

My tongue, my heart, my pen, my limbs and my very hairs bear witness to the oneness of God, His singleness, His grandeur and His sovereignty.   BH05979

For verily it is as a single Sun, and all else are but mirrors wherein is reflected the image of its revelation, each according to its capacity  BB00256

has raised aloft the banner of divine unity upon the highest standards and planted the ensign of "Verily He is God" upon the most elevated station   BH05025

All things testify to Thy oneness, and whatsoever can be described as having existence, whether seen or unseen, beareth witness to Thy singleness.   BH02533

I testify to...the oneness of Thy Being and the unity of Thine Essence, Thy sanctity and exaltation above the world of being and all that is therein  BH03109

O Lord! I testify to Thy oneness and singleness, and that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH04697

And thy Lord hath taken unto Himself no partner, nor any peer, nor any minister, nor any likeness, nor any equal, nor any opposite, nor any similitude.  BH06114

O Lord! Aid Thy sincere servants to be endowed with the signs of Thy Divine nature and to be inflamed with the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy Oneness.  AB06306

We bear witness at the beginning of this Book to the oneness and singleness of God, and that He is the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden.   BH03045

The Wronged One beareth witness to that which God hath witnessed in the Kingdom of Utterance: There is none other God but Him, the Mighty, the Gracious.   BH09900

and the Peacock of the Paradise of Oneness utters its cry with holy eternality's might...and the Cock of Glorification sings in the gardens of Divine Unity  BH07539

which is the witness of the delicate mystery of oneness and singleness - shall be made manifest and become the cause of the appearance of the sign of unity  AB10912

Glorified and exalted art Thou! All Thy servants worship Thee in the truth of Thy unity, and all Thy creatures prostrate before Thee in the truth of Thy oneness.  BB00005

Praise that inspireth all with His unity, attracteth souls unto the station of His uniqueness, and strengtheneth hearts through His remembrance and glorification.   BB00140

Say: He was One in His Essence and One in His dominion. He hath taken unto Himself neither partner nor minister. He, verily, is the Single, the One, the All-Informed.  BH02975

I bear witness that there is no God but God, alone, with no partner, just as His Essence has testified to His Essence that there is no God but He, the Mighty, the Wise   BB00120

The Rose-garden of Unity was ornamented, and the Flower-bed of singleness was arrayed. The Feast of the Bounties was celebrated, and the Banquet of Eternity was spread.  AB03005

Worship none but God, the Lord of the heavens and the Lord of the earth, the Lord of all worlds, Who created all things by His command, and unto Him is the final return.  BB00004

Enable them then, O my God, to bear witness to Thy unity and to testify to Thy oneness in such wise that they may behold naught save Thee and shut their eyes to all else.   BH00759

acknowledgment of "the oneness of God and His singleness, and that He is the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden. There is no God but Him, the Single, the One"   BH08802

My outward and inward tongue, my limbs and members all bear witness to Thy oneness and Thy singleness, and that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee, the Single, the One   BH06682

Thou hast ever been one God, Single, Eternal, Self-Subsisting, Living, Self-Sustaining, All-Wise, Just, Holy, Everlasting, Eternal, Who hath taken neither consort nor son.   BB00434

The Founder of monotheism was Abraham; it is to Him that this concept can be traced, and the belief was current among the Children of Israel, even in the days of Socrates.   AB02343

My tongue, my pen, my outward being and my inmost reality all testify to Thy oneness and singleness, and that Thou hast no partner in the realm of dominion and sovereignty.   BH07687

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. That is the Lord of all worlds. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, the Mighty, the All-Wise.  BB00004

Glorified be He Who hath revealed Himself by His Own Self unto His Own Self, and hath manifested Himself unto His creation through His signs, His revelations and His evidences.  BH00048

The morn of Divine Unity has dawned from the orient of the soul, and the lights of the radiance of the Sinai of Oneness have appeared from the dawning-place of contingent being.  BH05789

I testify to Thy oneness as Thou hast testified to Thine own oneness, that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee, and all else besides Thee is Thy creation and within Thy grasp.   BB00302

And there is no doubt that those universal meanings which are known to God were, in the world of Oneness, identical with the Truth, for in the world of Truth there is pure unity.   AB04144

Praise be to God Who hath guided His servants unto His straight path and His mighty announcement, and hath sent down upon them from the heaven of His bounty the signs of His oneness   BH02733

I beseech Thee by the dawn of Thy unity which has risen, appeared, shone forth and proclaimed the light of Thy oneness and the mystery of Thy detachment from all peers and likenesses  AB04233

And this recognition is not complete except through acknowledging His oneness and confessing His singleness, in such wise that no likeness, peer, similitude or equal be seen for Him.   BH08127

Bear thou witness to that whereunto God did testify before the creation of earth and heaven: that there is none other God but Him, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH09097

"I beseech Thee to inscribe me, by Thy Most Exalted Pen, among those who have acknowledged Divine Unity and detached themselves from idle fancies and from that which befitteth not Thy days."  BH04060

Thou art the One, O my God, not in the numerical sense wherein nine attains before ten, and verily Thou, O my God, art the Single, not in the numerical sense wherein three attains after ten.  BB00024

We bear witness to that which God hath witnessed, that there is none other God but Him, in acknowledgment of His oneness and in recognition of His singleness, His grandeur and His sovereignty.  BH11847

The essence of the question of unity is this: The Sun of Truth has shone forth from the horizon of oneness upon all regions. All created things are made manifest through the light of that Sun.   AB00249

Thou art He Who hath no equal, no peer, no likeness, no companion, no similitude, and Thou art He Who begetteth not, nor wast Thou begotten, Who cannot be limited or described by any similitude.   BB00231

"My outer and inner tongue, my limbs and members, my veins and the very hairs of my body bear witness to Your unity and oneness, and that You are the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden."  BH04091

Say: Unity is the recognition of a Self that is sanctified above all who are in the world and exalted beyond the conditions of created things. Verily He is the One besides Whom there can be no numbers  BH05846

I bear witness before God, from my station amidst these mountains, that there is no God but Him, alone without partner, even as His Essence hath testified to His Essence in the loftiness of His Being.   BB00226

There is no God but Thee! Thou hast ever been as Thou wert. Attributes have gone astray, names have been cut off, and traces have returned. And now Thou art as Thou hast ever been in might and oneness.   BB00123

Thou art One, no partner hast Thou; Thou art One, no peer hast Thou; Thou art One, no equal hast Thou; Thou art One, no likeness hast Thou! Thou art unique in Thy oneness and sanctified in Thy singleness.  AB02025

Thou hast taken unto Thyself neither consort nor son, nor hast Thou been associated with aught in the kingdom of earth and heaven. Thou hast numbered all things and encompassed all things in Thy knowledge.  BB00011

Thou hast ever been one God, Single, Unique, Independent, Self-Subsisting, Self-Sufficient. Thou hast taken neither consort nor offspring, nor hath there been any partner with Thee, neither before nor after.  BB00011

Verily, thou hast attained thereto, for thou hast acknowledged the Oneness of God and His Singleness, and turned unto His Face, the lights of which are shining from the horizon of the unseen, upon all regions!  AB08997

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and the angels and those endowed with knowledge, standing firm on justice, bear witness that there is none other God but Him, the Almighty, the All-Wise.  BB00278

The veils of glory have not prevented him from beholding the beauty of Thy oneness, nor have the shrouds of allusion obscured his vision from witnessing the signs of Thy unity and the evidences of Thy singleness.   BH09391

...from your words wafted the fragrance of the oneness of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy... We testify that he has testified to the oneness of God, His singleness, His might, His greatness and His sovereignty.   BH01829

Thou, Thou art our Lord! Send down upon this one who seeketh refuge at the gate of Thy oneness, from the outpourings of the heaven of Thy glorious unity, and attract him through the holy fragrances of Thy singleness.  AB10113

To God belong the uniqueness of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and God is possessed of subtle oneness. His is whatsoever appears by night and by day, and He is the Single One, the All-Subtle.  BB00004

All appearances and realities indicate the oneness of Thine Essence, and all evidences and signs reflect the truth that Thou art God and there is no peer or partner for Thee throughout the kingdoms of heaven and earth.   BB00372

Therefore strive and sacrifice yourself, make every effort despite distress, so that your speaking reality and your eternal archetype may turn from the station of unity toward the heart-expanding wilderness of oneness.   AB03187

Through them were revealed the mysteries of divine unity, and through them was raised aloft the word of detachment, and through them was hoisted upon the highest standard the banner of "There is none other God but Him."   BH03444

Then upon Thee, O Light of the Divine Identity, and Garment of the Countenance of Oneness, and Mystery of Eternality, and the Divine Grandeur, and the Glory of the Divine Essence, and the Sublimity of the Realm of Might   BB00166

Thou art One besides Whom there is none other God, and none among Thy servants can bear witness to this truth. From everlasting Thou hast had no equal, no likeness, no peer, no companion, no similitude, and no associate.  BB00011

O Pure One! O Peerless One! O Incomparable One! O Lord! Thou art One, with no partner, no equal, no likeness, no similitude. Thou art unique in Thy Godhead and Thy Lordship, and exalted in Thy Oneness and Thy Singleness.  AB04368

Stand firm in the Cause, then kindle the fire of oneness in the hearts of all creatures that it may purify them from the defilement of idle fancy and draw them nigh unto God, the Lord of the former and latter generations.  BH05074

O peoples of the heavens and of the earth! Were ye to sanctify your ears ye would hear My hair proclaim that there is none other God except Him, and that He is One in His Essence and in everything that beareth relationship unto Him.   BH07147

And if I say "He is He," then Oneness would indicate the Essence of Thy Will and the Sovereignty of the Being of Thy Purpose, which in itself is cut off from nearness to Thy Presence and barred from knowing the station of Thy might.   BB00156

Thou art I. Glorified art Thou, O my God! There is no god but Thee to be worshipped, none besides Thee to be adored, none except Thee to be sought, and none but Thee to be praised. Verily Thou art the God of gods. Verily, Thou art I.   BB00110

True spiritual oneness consists in acknowledging and confessing the unity of God, exalted be His glory, sanctifying His Essence from all likeness and purifying His Being from all similitudes. This has ever been and shall ever be the case.  BH01664

Beware lest thou ascribe partners unto Him Who hath ever been One in His Essence and hath taken neither peer nor likeness unto Himself. To this beareth witness all that hath been sent down aforetime from the presence of the Mighty, the Bestower.   BH00941

Such is God, your Lord. His is the creation and the command. There is none other God but He, the Most High, the Most Great. Such is God, your Lord. His is the creation and the command. There is none other God but He, the Mighty, the Well-Beloved.  BB00004

O Lord! The lamp, with the tongue of its inner reality, declares: "O my God! Thou seest me and knowest what lies within my secret being. I have not revealed myself in all regions except that Thy creation and Thy creatures might be illumined by me"   BH08434

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the dominion of the oneness of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them! Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the dominion of the uniqueness of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them!  BB00004

This is Thy servant who hath bowed down before the King of Thy oneness, who hath humbled himself before the presence of Thy singleness, who hath believed in the Beauty of Thy uniqueness, and who hath supplicated the Kingdom of Thy self-subsistence.  AB09676

He has ever dwelt in the treasury of His mystery in the identity of His Essence, and will ever continue to be, not as He was before but rather He was and will be sanctified above all that has been or will be created, and above all that was or will be.   BH10032

I am he who hath acknowledged Thy oneness before the existence of created things, and Thy unity before the appearance of contingent beings, and who hath entered the school of divine unity at the time which Thou hadst sanctified from all times and seasons   BH04459

Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, nor hath there been any partner in what Thou hast created, nor any protector in what Thou hast fashioned. Thou hast created all things by Thy power with precision, and formed all things by Thy will with perfection.   BB00218

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All testify to His oneness. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All magnify Him. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All extol His greatness.  BB00004

Thou hast ever been the One God, Single, Self-Subsisting, Unique, Ever-Living, Self-Sustaining, the Sovereign, the Supreme, the Most Holy, Eternal, Everlasting, Self-Dependent, Transcendent, Inaccessible, Most Exalted. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son.  BB00003

Praise be to God Who hath established Himself upon the throne of dominion and kingdom through the exaltation of the majesty of His oneness, then established Himself upon the throne of might and omnipotence through the exaltation of the beauty of His eternality  BB00003

"There is no God but I, Who created all contingent things from nothing through My Will, and brought all beings into existence from naught through My Purpose. I am the One with power over whatsoever I desire, and I am the All-Encompassing, the Self-Subsisting."   BH03333

Say: O people, associate not partners with God, for such association is a grievous wrong. Bear witness unto that which God Himself witnessed before the creation of all things, that there is none other God but Him, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Great.   BH01702

each letter of which beareth witness to the oneness of God and His singleness, and to the Most Great Announcement. It testifieth to that which the Tongue of Grandeur testified before the creation of His heaven and His earth - that there is none other God but Him.  BH04367

O my God! I beseech Thee by the most resplendent of Thy Oneness, though all Thy Oneness is resplendent with Thee, then in the Mother Book, O my God! I beseech Thee by all Thy Oneness... We shall assuredly cause to descend, O God, Thy light upon the Tree of Oneness   BB00227

Thou hast ever been one God, Single, Unique, Eternal, Self-Subsisting, the Ever-Abiding, the Ever-Enduring, the Self-Dependent. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast no partner in what Thou hast created, nor any protector in what Thou hast fashioned.  BB00293

This is the Day wherein the Mystery of Divine Unity hath proclaimed: The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the One, the All-Powerful, the All-Choosing. With Him did the Day begin and with Him shall it end, and from Him have the lights appeared and unto Him have they returned.  BH03690

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All are submissive unto Him. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All prostrate themselves before Him. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All worship Him.  BB00004

Say: God is the Creator of all things, and verily unto Him do all turn. Say: God is the Provider of all things, and verily unto Him shall all be raised up. Say: God causeth you to die, then giveth you life, then will He raise you up on a Day about which there is no doubt.  BB00003

O people of the earth! Have you not reflected upon the creation of the heavens and the earth? If there were two gates in them from the Remembrance, they would have corrupted. And verily God has arranged the kingdom through His Gate of Truth, and God is indeed knowing of all things.  BB00002

Blessed is the soul whose heart is free and detached from the world and all that is therein. Such a one is worthy to make mention of the blessed Word of Unity. Praise be to God that the favored community has attained to this station and acknowledges and confesses the oneness of God.   BH01551

Glorified art Thou! All who have been illumined by the Sun of Thy oneness and the lights of the manifestation of Thy Countenance - Thou art the One Who existed before all things, the Hidden One of all things, the One Who was before all things, and the One Who shall be after all things.  BB00003

In the most glorious degrees of my unity, O my God, I sanctify Thee beyond the mention of sanctity, exalt Thee beyond the mention of exaltation, glorify Thee beyond the mention of glory, elevate Thee beyond the mention of elevation, and affirm Thy oneness beyond the mention of divinity.  BB00005

O people of earth! Hearken to the call of the Leaf of Identity, sprouting from the Tree of Eternity, planted in the soil of eternality, warbling with verses of divine rapture, that verily He is the Truth, there is none other God but Him, and He is God Who hath been independent of all worlds   BH00952

Extinguished be the spirits that recognize not the Sovereign of Thy holy Oneness, and abolished be the bodies that prostrate not before the Monarch of Thy Unity. Glory be unto Thee! Glory be unto Thee from my heart turning to any but Thee or to one whose heart turneth to aught else but Thee!   BB00163

If thou seekest the essence of numbers, lay hold of the hem of the True One, for all numbers are impotent and deficient, but the True One is the Doer, the Powerful, and the Penetrating. As far as thou art able, reveal among the peoples the mysteries of the True One, which is the eternal bounty  AB09406

Though a name indicates that which is named, this applies only to the realm of creation. But the Truth is sanctified above all names - all names end in His Most Exalted Word and all attributes return to His Primal Will. Whoever attains unto Him has attained unto all names, both now and forever.   BH02504

He hath ever existed, sanctified from all peers and likenesses, and exalted above all that hath been said or shall be said. He hath been, and is, the One, the Single, the Unique, the Self-Subsisting, the Eternal-He unto Whose oneness and singleness the tongues of all created things have testified  BH11714

His Essence hath no attribute or name besides His Essence. He is the Truth, there is no God but Him. Thee do we worship and Thine aid we seek. All else besides Him are brought into being through His creation and origination. There is neither connection nor separation between Him and contingent beings.  BB00017

Through the manifestation of Thy oneness and the proclamation of Thy uniqueness, I shall reach those who have not recognized Thy unity, though they claim to be among the guides to Thy oneness and witnesses to the proofs of Thy sanctity. Thou hast ever been the One God, Single, Eternal, Self-Subsisting.   BB00282

If it be said "He is He," the Oneness itself pointeth to its own essence, yet is severed from Thee in its origination from naught. And if it be said "Thou art Thou," like resembleth like, yet indicateth Thee not as Thou art in the glory of Oneness save through what the symbol signifieth in its counterpart.   BB00196

My pen and my tongue and my fingers and my inner self and my outer self and my hidden being and my heart and my liver and my spirit and my soul and my limbs and my faculties and my knowledge and my understanding and my hearing and my sight and my inmost heart testify to the oneness of God and His singleness   BH09722

There is no God save Him. His is all praise in the former and the latter, His is the command, and unto Him ye will be brought back. And cry not unto any other god along with Allah. There is no God save Him. Everything will perish save His countenance. His is the command, and unto Him ye will be brought back.  BB00041

Glory be unto Thee! There is no God but Thee. I have known Thee through Thee alone. There is no God but Thee. Glory be unto Thee! There is no God but Thee. I have affirmed Thy unity through Thee alone. There is no God but Thee. Glory be unto Thee! There is no God but Thee. I have loved Thee through Thee alone.  BB00011

O Ali-Qabl-i-Akbar! We hope that thou mayest be illumined with the true light of divine unity and not ascribe any likeness or peer unto God, glorified be His majesty. Glory be to God! Those who considered themselves steadfast, learned and wise are found to be somewhat tainted with idle fancies and vain imaginings.  BH06852

The ocean of oneness hath surged... Bear thou witness unto that whereunto God hath testified in this most exalted Station, this most sublime Summit, and this most glorious Horizon, that there is none other God but Him, the Single, the One, the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling over what hath been and what shall be.   BH01656

He is the One, matchless in numerical calculation... He is the One Who hath borne witness unto His own Self by His own Self, and Who is sanctified from association with aught else through the loftiness of His names and attributes. He beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and all are His worshippers.  BB00003

I bear witness, and all things bear such witness as would purify him who beareth similar witness from all hints of aught else but His oneness, and would cause him who ascendeth through it to reach the horizon of what His grace hath caused to shine forth in creation, that there is no God but Him, alone with no partner.  BB00298

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Verily Thou hast ever been the One God, Single, Eternal, Self-Subsistent, the Ever-Living, the Self-Sustaining, the Everlasting, the Ever-Enduring. Thou hast taken unto Thyself neither consort nor son. There hath been no equal unto Thee, no peer, no likeness, no companion, and no similitude.   BB00130

Thou wert one God, Single, Eternal, Individual, Ever-living, Self-subsisting, Sovereign, All-pervading, Holy, Everlasting, Eternal, Self-dependent, All-powerful, All-glorious, All-mighty. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast no partner in what Thou hast created, nor any helper in what Thou hast fashioned.   BB00277

Thou hast ever been one God, single, eternal, self-subsisting, living, enduring, sovereign, all-pervading, holy, everlasting, forever, inaccessible, possessing, ruling, manifest, powerful. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast no partner in what Thou hast created, nor any helper in what Thou hast fashioned.  BB00294

I testify that there is no God but God, alone without partner, even as He hath testified of His Own Self unto His Own Self, and sanctified His Own Being above any likeness to aught else beside Him. He is as He is in the glory of His Being, the majesty of His Essence, the beauty of His Self, and the sanctity of His Identity.   BB00291

Glory be unto Thee! Glory be unto Thee! Thou art He Who begetteth not, nor wast begotten, and there is none like unto Thee, nor equal unto Thee, nor comparable unto Thee, nor peer unto Thee. Thou hast ever been supreme over all Thy servants and manifest above all that Thou hast created in the kingdom of Thy earth and heaven.   BB00053

From everlasting Thou wert alone, with none to describe Thee, and wilt abide for ever the same with no one else to equal or rival Thee. Were the existence of any co-equal with Thee to be recognized, how could it then be maintained that Thou art the Incomparable, or that Thy Godhead is immeasurably exalted above all peers or likeness?  BH01887

Thou hast ever been one God, single, eternal, self-subsisting, living, unchanging, sovereign, supreme, holy, everlasting, endless, inaccessible, exalted, ruling, possessing, glorified, powerful. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast no partner in what Thou hast created, nor any protector in what Thou hast fashioned.   BB00264

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I bear witness, and all things bear witness, that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee. Thou hast ever been the One God, Single, Self-Subsisting, Eternal, the All-Wise, the Just, the Holy. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast no partner in Thy creation, nor any helper in what Thou hast fashioned.   BB00253

Glorified art Thou, O Lord! Thou hast ever been one God, single, eternal, self-subsisting, the Ever-Living, the Self-Sustaining. Thou hast taken neither consort nor offspring, and Thou hast created nothing except that Thou hast made it bear witness to Thy oneness and that Thou hast no partner in sovereignty nor any protector on earth save by Thy leave.   BB00258

The deluded one is concealed yet not hidden, for He made it an established word of four parts together, none of which precedes another. He revealed three of them as Names due to creation's need for them, and concealed one of them - the Hidden and Treasured Name. These Names are pillars and veils of the One Hidden and Treasured Name through these three Names.   BB00128

Say: God is the First of all firsts, if ye be of them that glorify. Say: God is the Last of all lasts, if ye be of them that praise His remembrance. Say: God is the Manifest of all that is manifest, if ye be of them that testify to His oneness through His remembrance. Say: God is the Hidden of all that is hidden, if ye be of them that magnify His remembrance.  BB00004

The explicit text of the Qur'an confirms this in His exalted words, after refuting the Christians' "third of three," that "He is but one God." For he who claims the Simple Reality removes numbers from the realm of limitations, and this is false like the Christians' claim, for in the Essence of the One nothing else is mentioned nor is there any other with Him.   BB00064

O Thou peerless Lord! Make Thou this bird of the Realms above that winged its flight unto the kingdom of Thy sanctity and hath sought refuge at the Threshold of Thy Divine Unity, an angel in the garden of forgiveness, and let it sing the tender melodies of Thy Oneness in the meadow of Truth, in the paradise of Thy Singleness, and in the rose-bush of Thy mercy.  AB11176

For the Pure and Primordial Essence hath ever been, and shall ever be, unassociated with Its creation, nor is Its creation mentioned in Its rank. Rather, It created the temple of all existence through the Will itself, not from anything, through Its own causation, Its own acceptance, the manifestation of Its own essence, and the ultimate expression of Its identity.  BB00042

God testifieth to the unity of His Godhood and to the singleness of His own Being. On the throne of eternity, from the inaccessible heights of His station, His tongue proclaimeth that there is none other God but Him. He Himself, independently of all else, hath ever been a witness unto His own oneness, the revealer of His own nature, the glorifier of His own essence.  BH00769

God hath desired naught from the expression of unity save the word of glorification, and from it naught save the word of praise, and from it naught save the word of His oneness, and from it naught save the word of His greatness. For the unity of the Divine Essence, as established in the beginning and end of the Command, is impossible for any created thing to attain.   BB00075

acknowledging that which the tongue of Thy grandeur hath spoken when Thou didst establish Thyself upon the throne by Thy command and will - that Thou art God, Who hath ever been One, Single, Alone, Self-Subsisting, and will forever remain as Thou hast been. There is none other God but Thee, the Self-Sufficient, the Most Exalted, the Ruler of the beginning and the end   BH01533

Thou hast ever been alone in the heights of oneness, sanctified in the exaltation of Thy unity, inaccessible in Thine own sovereignty, and elevated in the sublimity of Thy holy dominion. Thou hast ever been one God, single, individual, ever-living, self-subsisting. Thou hast taken neither consort nor son, and Thou hast had no partner in dominion nor any helper in command.   BB00311

God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. His is the Kingdom and the Dominion, then the Glory and the Might, then the Power and the Divine Realm, then the Strength and the Ruby, then the Sovereignty and the Human Realm. He giveth life and causeth death, then causeth death and giveth life. Verily He is the Ever-Living Who dieth not, and the King Who passeth not away.  BB00003

Consider the relation between the craftsman and his handiwork, between the painter and his painting. Can it ever be maintained that the work their hands have produced is the same as themselves? By Him Who is the Lord of the Throne above and of earth below! They can be regarded in no other light except as evidences that proclaim the excellence and perfection of their author.   BH01850

Know then, O people, worship God, the Creator of all things and their Provider, the One Who causes all things to die and gives them life. He is the One Who has ever been alone, alone, with no partner beside Him, and He will ever continue to be, in the summit of inaccessibility and the heights of transcendence, even as He has been in the excellence of majesty and the exaltation of proof.  BB00005

I testify that God, glorified be He, hath ever been - His manifestation being identical with His concealment, and His concealment identical with His manifestation. His firstness is identical with His lastness, and His lastness identical with His firstness. He hath ever existed in the glory of eternity and the sanctity of grandeur in one state, one majesty, one beauty, one bounty, and one justice.  BB00005

O my Lord! The tongue of my inner being and my outer being and my limbs testify to Thy oneness and singleness, and that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee. Thou hast created all beings through a word from Thee and brought forth all existence through a will from Thy presence. Thou art He Whom the manifestations of power and might cannot frustrate, nor can the objections of creation prevent Thee.   BH01145

All who adore Thy unity have been sore perplexed to fathom the mystery of Thy oneness, and all have confessed their powerlessness to attain unto the comprehension of Thine essence and to scale the pinnacle of Thy knowledge. From everlasting Thou has been alone with no one else beside Thee, and to everlasting Thou wilt continue to be one and the same. No God is there beside Thee, the God of power, of glory and wisdom.   BH02693

Bear thou witness in thine inmost heart unto this testimony which God hath Himself and for Himself pronounced, that there is none other God but Him, that all else besides Him have been created by His behest, have been fashioned by His leave, are subject to His law, are as a thing forgotten when compared to the glorious evidences of His oneness, and are as nothing when brought face to face with the mighty revelations of His unity.   BH01640

For at the mention of aught else but Thee, how can Thy unity be established, and in the presence of Thy creation, how can Thy singleness be veiled? Thou hast ever been one God, Single, Alone, Self-Subsisting, Ever-Living, Self-Subsisting, All-Wise, Just, Holy, Eternal, Self-Dependent. Thou hast taken unto Thyself neither consort nor son, and Thou hast no partner in what Thou hast fashioned, nor any helper in what Thou hast decreed.   BB00167

For verily I, O my God, at the time when I was but the letter Ha in my sixth year of life, do testify to Thy oneness, acknowledging that there is no God but He before all things, and there is no God but He after all things, and there is no God but He above all things, and there is no God but He beneath all things, and there is no God but He in the height of all heights, and there is no God but He in the exaltation of all exaltations...  BB00011

Say: From all eternity there hath been and shall be but one Divine Unity, for in names there appeareth naught but the Named One Himself, even as thou sayest there is no sun but the true Sun, shouldst thou observe. Yet consider thou the degrees of unity in relation to the degrees of names and attributes, for in the presence of every true soul that which is contrary to it hath been and shall be negated, and unto God is the journey's end.  BB00005

We bear witness, in the station of the unity of the Divine Essence, that He is One in His Essence, and hath ever been seated upon the throne of unity and the seat of singleness. There was none with Him, nor shall any be mentioned before Him. He is the Everlasting, the Self-Subsisting, the Mighty, the Gracious. He hath ever existed in the sovereignty of His Essence, and with Him there was neither mention of aught, nor knowledge of any soul, nor unity of any being.  BH00134

God testifieth that there is no God but Him, the King, the Sovereign of sovereigns. In the First Gate hath been ordained the mention of His own Self unto His own Self. There is no God but Him. His are the most excellent Names. All that are in the heavens and on earth and whatsoever lieth between them glorify Him, and all within the kingdoms of Command and Creation and whatsoever lieth between them bow down before Him. All are His servants and all bow down before Him.  BB00035

I bear witness, O my God, to that whereunto Thou hast testified for Thine own Self before all things: that there is none other God but Thee, alone, without peer or partner. Thou hast caused all to know Thy Self through the knowledge of Thy Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, and hast ordained that all that is attributed unto God be likewise attributed unto Thyself, lest anything be deprived of the radiance of Thy Essence, or fail to manifest the revelation of Thy Being.  BB00012

I bear witness that there is no God but God, alone with no partner, even as His Essence hath testified unto His Essence, and those endowed with knowledge among His creation in His realm of origination that He is a God, Living, Self-Subsisting, All-Knowing, All-Powerful, All-Choosing, from Whose knowledge nothing in the heavens or earth escapeth, and nothing in the worlds of command and creation overwhelmeth Him, having no attribute apart from His Essence and no quality apart from His attributes.   BB00195

Thy unity is inscrutable, O my God, to all except them that have recognized Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy singleness and the Day-Spring of Thy oneness. Whoso assigneth a rival unto Him hath assigned a rival unto Thee, and whoso hath set up a peer for Him hath set up a peer for Thyself. No, no, none can withstand Thee in the whole of creation. Thou hast everlastingly been exalted far above all comparison and likeness. Thy oneness hath been demonstrated by the oneness of Him Who is the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation.   BH04568

When thou lookest with the eye of truth, God hath no attribute apart from His Essence and no description apart from His presence. He knoweth all things as they are, whether universals or particulars, substances or accidents, after their creation just as on the day He had not created them. He knoweth them because knowledge is life, and just as God, glory be to Him, is Ever-Living in the eternity of eternities, and needeth not the existence of any living thing to prove His life, He was All-Knowing of all things without there being any object of knowledge.  BB00021

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All glorify Him. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All proclaim His oneness. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All sanctify Him. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All exalt Him. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All magnify Him. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All give thanks unto God, their Lord, the Most Merciful, and in His remembrance do they praise Him.  BB00004

O God! I beseech Thee by the sovereignty wherein Thou art unique... O First One in Thy uniqueness... O Most Glorious in Thy uniqueness... O Most Majestic in Thy uniqueness... O Most Exalted in Thy uniqueness... O Single One in Thy uniqueness... O Most High in Thy uniqueness... O All-Sufficient in Thy uniqueness... O Possessor of Majesty in Thy uniqueness... O Creator in Thy uniqueness... O King in Thy uniqueness... O Light-Giver in Thy uniqueness... O Almighty in Thy uniqueness... O Manifest One in Thy uniqueness... O Most High in Thy uniqueness... O All-Knowing in Thy uniqueness... O Most Great in Thy uniqueness... O Most Wondrous in Thy uniqueness  BB00347

All shall worship Thee according to Thy true oneness, all shall prostrate themselves before Thee according to Thy true unity, all shall glorify Thee according to Thy true singleness, all shall sanctify Thee according to Thy true glory, all shall exalt Thee according to Thy true essence, all shall beautify Thee according to Thy true being, all shall aid Thee according to Thy true victory, all shall strengthen Thee according to Thy true self-subsistence, all shall empower Thee according to Thy true sovereignty, all shall render Thee sovereign according to Thy true eternity. None besides Thee can be manifest so as to be known thereby, nor can any besides Thee be hidden so as to be described thereby.  BB00005
