
In short he must demonstrate his love for all the people through every loving means. Just as light appear through an illumined lamp, likewise these deeds must appear from a person who calls himself a Baha'i; otherwise one does not become a Baha'i by merely acknowledging the station of Baha'u'llah.   ABU0956

The quality of man lies in his conduct and deeds.  BH10950

Know thou with absolute certitude that goodly deeds and praiseworthy character have ever been and shall ever be the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God. BH03754

The reflection in the glass proves whether we are laughing or frowning. By our actions we reveal what is growing in the heart. Actions are mirrors of the soul.  ABU3384

Deeds are the mirror of the doer, and deeds are a mirror for the doer. We beseech and implore the Exalted Truth to sanctify the people of the Crimson Ark from whatsoever diminisheth consciousness and robbeth reason.  BH00023

The Baha'is must be known by their deeds. That is why His Holiness the Christ says: ye shall know the trees by their fruits.   ABU2177

All the friends must become the living embodiments of these Teachings; otherwise they will not avail.   ABU2775

This Wronged One has ever remembered His loved ones and counselled all to that which brings them nearer to God. Such nearness cannot be attained except through goodly deeds and praiseworthy conduct. Deeds and their acceptance are, in the first instance and highest station, dependent upon the divine unity.  BH01032

It is hoped that the fruits of his deeds will remain preserved in the scrolls of glory. A testimony that testifieth to the truth and uprightness of his deed is his attainment unto His presence before his desire. A good deed hath a pleasing reward, for the Judge of Justice is God, exalted be His glory.   BH00661

Verily, he who is prevented by his deeds from attaining his ultimate end is among the perished ones, for deeds are not accepted except through turning towards God. Whoso turneth towards Him, verily he hath performed what God hath desired, and whoso turneth away is among those who have forsaken Him.  BH07487

Christ said, 'You will know them by their fruits,' that is, by their deeds. If a believer shows forth divine qualities, we know the true Faith is in his heart. If we do not find evidence of these qualities, if he is selfish or wicked, he has not the true kind of Faith.  ABU1000

Tell him, no one in this world can claim any relationship to Me except those who, in all their deeds and in their conduct, follow My example, in such wise that all the peoples of the earth would be powerless to prevent them from doing and saying that which is meet and seemly.  BHU0021

That which is beloved in the Days of God hath ever been and will ever be goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. God willing, may all attain unto these and act in accordance with that which hath been sent down from the Kingdom of Command in the divine Tablets.   BH07004

The Book of God, which distinguisheth between truth and falsehood, ever calleth unto the people of divine unity, saying: "Act, O My loved ones, according to that which ye have been commanded." For the station of hope is manifested through outward deeds  BH02219

Corruption, conflict and contention have ever been and shall ever be condemned. That which today is the cause of the exaltation of man's station are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. Blessed are they that act, and woe unto them that neglect.   BH00502

If the friends of God had acted upon what was revealed, no discord would ever have occurred, for all were commanded to humility, submissiveness, resignation, contentment, love, trustworthiness, religiosity, kindness, truthfulness and sincerity.   BH00278

After recognition of the Manifestation of Divine Revelation and the Dawning-Place of the Divine Inspiration, Who is the Sovereign of beliefs, all must act according to that which hath been sent down in the Book, for it is the Sovereign of deeds.   BH08150

Today the Cause must be assisted through deeds and goodly character. By the life of God! Goodly deeds and praiseworthy character are sharper than swords and more penetrating than the essence of steel. By these two must ye render assistance.   BH00979

Blessed is the soul between whose intention and deed no difference is seen - whose intention is the very deed and whose deed is the very intention. And this is the station of the depths of the sea of oneness that was mentioned before.  BH00938

Faith means Deeds and in turn Deeds mean Faith. If a Baha'i is confirmed in Deeds, he is accepted. His faith in and acknowledgement of the station of Baha'u'llah do not bring him in the rank of the people of the Kingdom of Abha.   ABU0956

Hold fast to fasting and prayer. A person without deeds is, according to Christ, like a tree without fruit, and a fruitless tree hath ever been and will ever be fit for the fire.  BH00299

Faith pertains to the heart and soul, and this is a hidden and concealed matter. However, its proof lies in deeds and conduct. If one's way and behavior demonstrate sincerity, then it is established and confirmed.  AB06360

"Therefore, it is now proven that we are ourselves the means of our degradation and exaltation; that the people are attracted to us or repelled by us according to the attributes and deeds emanating from us."  ABU0727

Certainly, a non-believer who performs good deeds is better than one who claims love and faith but whose deeds reveal satanic temptations. However, perfection is achieved when deeds and faith are combined   ABU1305

"Today all distinctions between man and man fall away; there only remains the degree of striving to serve. He who serves most is nearest to God. The satisfaction of mankind is the satisfaction of God."  ABU1068

The Baha'is themselves must first be implementers of the teachings so that they may have effect on others. How can one who has not found existence from the Giver of existence give existence to others?   ABU1747

We counsel all to that which is the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God. The hosts which have been and shall forever be victorious and triumphant are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character.   BH03601

The stages of spiritual recognition, certitude, faith and assurance require proofs and evidence, signs and testimonies. The inward without the outward is deficient, and belief without deeds is void  AB12190

no deed in the world remains without fruit. But deeds done with knowledge are acceptable and complete. This means that one attains to the knowledge of God and is enabled to perform good deeds.   AB01473

When man departs from this mortal life, he must see in a tangible manner the accumulated results of his several scores of life, and observe whether any good is accomplished by him or not  ABU2851

Goodly deeds are in themselves promoters of God's Cause and have ever been so. Blessed is he who acteth according to that which hath been commanded by God, and woe unto the heedless.   BH00274

We counsel you to perform goodly deeds. Every soul's station is made manifest through his deeds, for deeds are as mirrors wherein the reality of the doer is revealed and evident.  BH02238

By deeds. This way is open to all, and deeds are understood by all. Join yourselves to those who work for the poor, the weak and the unfortunate; this is greatly to be commended."  ABU2809

The reflection in the glass proves whether we are laughing or frowning. By our actions we reveal what is growing in the heart. Actions are mirrors of the soul.  ABU3384

Those steadfast souls who have quaffed from the crimson cup the Kawthar of immortality must assist the Cause of God through goodly deeds and praiseworthy character   BH02959

There is no wonder in confessing the appearance of the Kingdom of God, but true wonder consists in good deeds, obedience to the commands and teachings of the True Lord  AB11444

This is the Day for pure deeds. God willing, the friends of Truth must appear among the servants with perfect trustworthiness, truthfulness and praiseworthy character.   BH03329

Belief is proven by actions following the Commands of God. Only those who prove their faith by their lives are worthy to be called the followers of Christ.  ABU1873

In most Tablets it hath been revealed that the victory of the Truth hath been and shall be through goodly deeds, befitting actions, and pleasing character.   BH01413

The station of man is revealed through deeds. Deeds are the fruits of the Tree of existence. Blessed are they that act, and blessed are they that know.   BH07351

Today is the day of action and the time of harvesting fruits! A lamp without light is darkness, and a tree without fruit is but wood fit for the fire.  AB01734

act in accordance with what hath been commanded... Every deed that appeareth today for the sake of God is recorded as the lord of deeds in His presence  BH06085

The greatness of the teachings of Baha'u'llah will be known when they are acted upon and practiced. Not one of a hundred has as yet come into force.  ABU3307

Let your acts be a guide unto all mankind, that from your behaviour and conduct they may be enabled to recognize the signs and commandments of God.  BHU0058

Mere acceptance of the Cause and acknowledgment of the truth is not and hath never been sufficient, even as all people today make such claims   BH02385

When knowledge and action are combined, and obedience is joined with recognition, the result of the world of existence becomes manifest  ABU1916

The real thing is faith, first of all. Actions and deeds are the fruits of faith. The fulfillment of salvation and safety is the faith.  ABU2477

making manifest through their deeds and actions, in the midst of all mankind, the manifest signs of the glorious bounty of the Blessed Beauty  AB07799

The bounty is not for him who hath acknowledged and confessed, but rather for him who hath acted in God, the Sovereign of ordinances.   BH06241

This is the standard - look ye at every soul according to their deeds and behavior, that the fruit of existence may become manifest  AB08639

How many souls there are who claim to have turned to Him and recognized Him, yet in their deeds and actions they are found wanting.   BH06538

We beseech God that He may enable them to act in accordance with that which they have been commanded in God's lands and His kingdom.   BH11506

The Son of Mary hath said that a servant without deeds is like a tree without fruit, and a tree without fruit is fit for the fire.   BH02909

The mercifulness of every gathering-place is to correspond the deeds, actions and behaviour in accord with the Teachings of God.  AB03584

Pleasing and acceptable as is a person of righteous actions before God's Holy Threshold, yet deeds should proceed from knowledge   AB01398

In this Day, should any soul manifest a deed purely for the sake of God, it is better than the deeds of a thousand years.   BH08128

Counsel the servants through deeds and character. This is what ye were commanded aforetime by God. BH00573

Today is the Day of deeds. God willing, thou shalt be enabled to act according to what hath been sent down in the Book   BH11236

Therefore it is necessary for the power of execution and effect to spiritually penetrate the body of the world.  ABU2858

One deed performed by believing handmaidens takes precedence over the deeds of all the handmaidens of the earth   BH09035

Blessed is he who acts according to that which hath been sent down from God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise  BH10110

Whatsoever pure word and holy deed proceedeth from anyone shall endure and be recorded in the Book of God.   BH07273

Blessed are they who hold fast unto it and act according to that which hath been sent down in the Book.  BH10801

Know thou its worth and act in a manner befitting it. Blessed is he who acts, and woe unto the heedless   BH10758

That which hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen shall benefit such souls as act upon it and accept it.   BH09355

Today is the day of deeds. Blessed is the soul that has clung to divine ordinances and acted upon them.   BH02676

All the friends must become the living embodiments of these Teachings; otherwise they will not avail.   ABU2775

Belief in Divine Unity must be combined with righteous deeds as prescribed by the All-Merciful.   AB07542

And the fruits of this tree are the deeds and acts and conditions of those who are nigh unto God.   AB08835

"Divine assistance has been and ever will be through goodly deeds and praiseworthy character."  BH08563

assist your Lord through goodly character and deeds. Thus doth command you the perspicuous Book   BH03375

This is the day of work, action. Get up and do something. This day of prayer is not now.  ABU1948

The most important thing is deeds. Good deeds are accepted by all nations and religions.   ABU3222

Man can paint those ideal pictures upon the tablet of existence with the brush of deeds.   ABU2119

The only test of its truth lies in the influence this conception has upon our lives   ABU2607

This is the day for deeds and the time for action - deprive not yourselves.   BH09305

Victory has been and ever will be through the hosts of deeds and character.   BH06016

The helper today is deeds from which the sweet perfumes of acceptance waft  BH09727

Today the magnet of existence is conduct according to the divine teachings  AB03496

Blessed is the soul whose outward life is the same as its inward life  ABU1938

The deeds and actions of every soul reveal his station and rank.   BH03036

"In truth, a person without deeds has been and is fruitless."   BH02182

Faith is not so much what we believe as what we carry out.   ABU3597

Blessed are they that hear and blessed are they that act.  BH09599

A servant without deeds is like a tree without fruit.  BH02815

An act, however infinitesimal, is, when viewed in the mirror of the knowledge of God, mightier than a mountain. Every drop proffered in His path is as the sea in that mirror.  BH03999

The pictures which are in the ideal world are eternal. Man can paint those ideal pictures upon the tablet of existence with the brush of deeds.   ABU2119

By one's deeds is one's station ultimately revealed.  BH09743

pure deeds reveal themselves and open their own door   BH02362

The fourth food is charitable deeds and sincere intentions.  AB03723

which consists of goodly deeds and praiseworthy human actions   BH07932


They must hold fast to goodly deeds and praiseworthy character   BH03780

Faith is not only in words. Such services are the proof of faith.  AB03279

A goodly deed is acceptable, and a goodly word ascendeth unto God.  BH09820

The fragrance of a good deed hath never ceased, nor shall it ever cease.  BH11768

We counsel all to perform good deeds and manifest praiseworthy character.  BH04007

Ye must aid the Cause of God through goodly deeds and praiseworthy character.  BH04351

Pure and holy deeds will assuredly be preserved in the book of divine preservation.   BH10158

"Deeds are judged by their motives, and for every person is what they have intended."  AB06870

succeed in performing such deeds whose fragrance shall never be cut off from the world   BH06298

The most important thing is deeds. Good deeds are accepted by all nations and religions.   ABU3222

That which endureth and lasteth is a deed which appeareth from a soul in the path of God.   BH06914

What matters are deeds and actions, and praise be to God, those are in utmost perfection.   AB03397

The reward of thy deeds is remembered and treasured with God and inscribed in the Crimson Book.   BH03777

We counsel thee to perform goodly deeds and whatsoever will draw thee near to the All-Informed One  BH05735

A good deed is like unto a sapling: God causes choice and wondrous fruits to grow and appear from it.   BH06034

Fear ye the All-Merciful, O servants, and perform good deeds abundantly for the sake of God, the True One.  BB00002

"in this greatest of all Causes, believing means to have praiseworthy qualities and to perform praiseworthy acts."   ABU3506

But spiritual education is the cause of competition in praiseworthy actions and the acquisition of human perfections.   ABU3318

through goodly acts and pleasing conduct has the Cause of God been and continues to be made manifest among His servants  BH08130

We counsel thee to perform pure deeds for God, the Truth. This shall profit thee in the world to come and in this first life.  BH08195

In truth, your deeds are the cause of the awakening of souls. If they are not aware now, they will surely acknowledge it later.  BH11727

Aid ye the All-Merciful through deeds and virtuous character. This is what We commanded you before and in this glorious Tablet.   BH07475

The triumph of God's Cause hath ever been and shall continue to be through goodly deeds and praiseworthy and pleasing character.  BH05267

Guidance hath ever been given by words, and now it is given by deeds. Every one must show forth deeds that are pure and holy, for words are the property of all alike, whereas such deeds as these belong only to Our loved ones. Strive then with heart and soul to distinguish yourselves by your deeds. BH00113



Aid your Lord through goodly deeds and through that which befitteth this Day, whose mention hath adorned the Books of the Messengers.   BH02718

Every deed performed for God - its fragrance shall never be cut off and its fruits shall return to the doer in this world and the next.   BH05710

This servant testifies with certainty that not a single atom of deeds performed for the sake of God will remain without fruit and effect.   BH01121

A single pure deed can cause the element of dust to transcend the heavens - that is, to attain the most exalted heights and uttermost limit.   BH02844

Strive, that thou mayest succeed in performing such deeds as will cause their fragrance to endure throughout the kingdom of earth and heaven.  BH07341

Today the helper of the Cause hath been and is goodly character and pure deeds. Blessed are they that act and happy are they that comprehend.   BH00818

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of divine wisdom that the fragrance of pure deeds and praiseworthy character pervades and influences the world.   BH03171

Strive that there may appear from thee, in the days of God, that whereby thy name and thy mention shall endure in His holy, mighty and inaccessible kingdom.  BH11185

Nothing ascendeth unto God save pure words and goodly deeds, and He loveth those who are detached. Aid ye God through your deeds, and be not of those who are veiled.   BH05160

If a soul draws but one breath in the path of the Friend, it shall assuredly be recorded in the Book of God and neither extinction nor annihilation shall overtake it.  BH05858

Well is it with the soul that assisteth the Dayspring of Divine Unity through goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. By one's deeds is one's station ultimately revealed.  BH09743

Now since you are engaged in serving the servants of God and are accustomed to goodwill and excellent services to the leaders, surely these good deeds have great rewards.   AB03040

Hold thou fast unto that which beseemeth thee throughout the Kingdom of earth and heaven, and that is a deed which is performed purely for the sake of God by His servants.   BH10965

Every deed that appeareth today purely for the sake of God is adorned with the ornament of perpetuity - that is, it shall endure throughout the kingdom of earth and heaven.   BH07567

As charitable works become praiseworthy, people often perform them merely for the sake of fame and to gain benefit for themselves, as well as to attract people's admiration.   ABU2127

Today all must act according to that which God hath commanded, so that the fragrance of pure deeds may attract souls to the direction of the Lord of the Beginning and the End.   BH03996

And whatsoever virtuous deeds have been revealed in the Holy Tablets from the Divine Pen - the benefit thereof shall return both to the doer and to the one for whom it was done.   BH04859

One pure deed today is better than the deeds of countless years. Fear God, O people, and be not of those who cast the deeds behind their backs and cling to idle fancies and words.  BH07225

Always strive to make hearts grateful and become the cause of happiness, contentment, gratitude and success for souls who have turned to God, especially those who deserve respect.  AB05622

And when the gates of eternity close behind us, if but one of those who went on the other side can thank God for even a single act or word of ours, we shall not have lived in vain.   ABU2015

The hosts which have been and shall forever be victorious and triumphant are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. Blessed are they who with these hosts have conquered the citadels of hearts.   BH03601

He hath given them all the glad-tidings of blessings both outward and inward, and commanded them to perform such deeds as are the greatest means for the perpetuation of souls and their goodly remembrance   BH06746

O servants! The triumph of this Cause hath depended, and will continue to depend, upon the appearance of holy souls, upon the showing forth of goodly deeds, and the revelation of words of consummate wisdom.  BH11368

Deeds performed in the path of God are humanity's companion in all worlds. Whosoever achieveth this is reckoned among the people of truth amidst creation. Thus doth the Supreme Pen testify from this Most Glorious Horizon.   BH07544

I swear by the peerless Pearl of the ocean of utterance that a righteous deed is, in itself, a teacher of God's Cause. Exert yourselves to act in accordance with what hath been sent down from the Most Exalted Pen in the Book.  BH02412

The deeds of man must be the cause of glory. Everything that is conducive to the honor of the religion of God is good. Every action that becomes the means of the elevation of the Word of God is accepted. This is the standard.  AB11442

By the Sun of Truth! The influence of pure deeds and praiseworthy character is greater and mightier than the influence of the ranks and hosts on high. Its power and might cannot be weakened by the power of the world's armies.   BH04658

Though today ye yourselves perceive it not, yet days shall come forth from the treasuries of divine purpose and the horizon of the merciful Will when your deed shall become manifest among all creatures and be mentioned by every tongue.   BH05710

Praiseworthy deeds and philanthropic actions are the materials with which the palace is built. Vices and the degeneracy of morality are the axes with which the very foundation of this eternal palace laid by the hand of God is uprooted.   ABU1870

Now is the time for fruits and leaves, and the fruits of the divine tree have ever been and are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. Withhold not these fruits from the heedless. Show them forth with spirit and joy, with wisdom and utterance.  BH01063

We counsel you in all conditions to fear God, to goodly deeds, and to that which causes the manifestation of love and kindness. What does the Book say? That which benefits you. What has God commanded? That which brings salvation and bestows rest.   BH01096

Through one goodly deed that appeared from him, an entire kingdom-from its king and ministers and princes and others-became illumined with the lights of faith. Now consider what power, might and influence a single deed hath wrought and manifested.   BH01462

O loved ones of the All-Merciful in all lands! Hold fast unto goodly deeds and praiseworthy conduct. By My life! Through these shall the Cause of God be exalted amongst His servants and the standards of victory be hoisted upon every lofty mountain.   BH00289

This is the Day of remembrance, the Day of praise, the Day of exaltation and ascendancy, and it has been and continues to be the Day of deeds. Whosoever in this Day achieves a deed for the sake of God shall abide forever in the kingdom of earth and heaven.   BH03581

By My life! Goodly deeds have been and ever will be the helpers of Truth. If today someone should arise for the sake of God and act according to what He loves and is pleased with, assuredly the fragrance of his deeds will guide and lead people to the choice sealed Wine.  BH01292

"The good deeds of man are like unto the sweet fragrances emanated from the musk. They perfume the nostrils of everyone more especially the doer. As his deeds have been performed with no reference to the applause and commendation of men he enjoys them more than any one else."   ABU1880

God hath distinguished between truth and falsehood. Whoso obeyeth God in what He hath revealed in the Furqan is among the people of faith and the companions of knowledge before our Lord, the Most Merciful. Set aside mere words. Adorn yourselves with goodly deeds and spiritual, luminous character.  BH02927

You must make the people understand the aims and teachings and behests of the Blessed Perfection, inform them to what Cause [He] has beckoned their attention, how He commands us to associate with all, to what height of purity, attraction, sanctity, morality, behaviour and deeds He hath summoned us.  ABU0434

For instance, it is possible that a man performs a good deed with a view to personal interest; such a good deed done is not separated from hypocrisy and insincerity. But when a man cherishes a good intention, it is impossible that it be prompted by any prejudice or be intended for anything but good.   ABU1112

"Religion is as a lamp, and trustworthiness is as a kind companion, and truthfulness is as a garment for the temple of man. The doer is known by his deeds, not his words. Deeds are as a mirror that telleth the story of the doers. Acceptable deeds are clearly distinguished from those that are rejected."  BH00681

From the revealed verses, the grace and bounty of God are evident and manifest. No deed hath been or ever shall be concealed, and whatsoever hath transpired in the path of God, exalted be His glory, hath not been and shall never be lost. All are recorded and inscribed in the Divine Book by the Most Exalted Pen.   BH01374

At all times, hold fast to that which will cause the exaltation of the Word of God. Goodly deeds and a praiseworthy character are the hosts of God in this supreme Revelation, and likewise are blessed and goodly words. These hosts attract hearts and unlock the gates of cities. This weapon is sharper than the weapons of the world.  BH01089

This is why God, exalted be His glory, hath mentioned in His Perspicuous Book, which distinguisheth between truth and falsehood, the mention of paradise and fruits and trees. And this matter, in one respect, is purely for the education of creation, that they might act virtuously and through this blessed deed attain unto lofty stations.   BH00964

Thoughts may be divided into two classes: (1st) Thought that belongs to the world of thought alone. (2nd) Thought that expresses itself in action. Some men and women glory in their exalted thoughts, but if these thoughts never reach the plane of action they remain useless: the power of thought is dependent on its manifestation in deeds.  ABU1414

Be a Baha'i in reality and not in word. Be detached, be spiritual, love thy fellowmen with a motiveless love. Let thy mind be a palace of universal ideals, and thy heart the casket of the jewels of sympathy and affection. Give and not take. Be generous in thought, in act and in feeling. Let thy faith and action correspond with each other.  ABU0389

One accepted deed today is equivalent to a hundred thousand deeds - nay, I seek God's forgiveness for this limitation. A deed appeared and was adorned with the ornament of acceptance in such wise that from the Dayspring of the utterance of the All-Merciful there appeared that whose fragrance shall never cease throughout the kingdoms of earth and heaven.  BH00010

Today the deeds of the friends of the Self-Sufficing, the Exalted, distinguish them from the people of the earth. O My loved ones! Hold fast unto sanctity and detachment. Your deeds must be so holy and pure that they will be even as the sun amidst the works of creation. A pure deed is itself a herald - its fragrance guideth men to the most exalted horizon and directeth them thither.   BH01473

The influence of deeds is more potent than the influence of words. Goodly deeds and spiritual qualities are each a herald of truth amongst the servants. The triumph of God's Cause dependeth upon these hosts. Perchance souls may arise for the sake of God and deliver the servants from the oppression of the ravenous ones of the earth, that corruption may be transformed into reformation, war into peace, and discord into concord.  BH00767

The wise ones who have drunk from the wine of inner meanings have affirmed the embodiment of deeds. How excellent are the words of Him Who said! The All-Glorious One declares, and the Dayspring of the Revelation of the All-Merciful has stated: "People shall be rewarded according to their deeds - good for good, and evil for evil." Thus it becomes evident that deeds shall endure, and every attribute shall have existence, so that by the very attribute and deed itself shall they be recompensed. Therefore, every attribute and every deed that appears from any doer has a form in every world and manifests itself therein  BH00423

The reflection in the glass proves whether we are laughing or frowning. By our actions we reveal what is growing in the heart. Actions are mirrors of the soul.  ABU3384

God willing, henceforth all must act according to goodly deeds, excellent actions and praiseworthy character, so that people may discover the Source through the manners and conduct of these souls   BH01595

We must recite the Persian and Arabic Hidden Words day and night, and implore and supplicate that we may act according to these divine counsels. These sacred words were revealed for action, not just for hearing.   AB02214

We have ordained victory through wisdom and utterance, and through deeds and character from which the near ones perceive the fragrance of My sanctity and My justice, whereby the Path hath been established and the Balance set up.  BH00065

We enjoin upon all virtuous and pure deeds, and praiseworthy and pleasing character. Blessed is the one who aids the Cause through deeds and character - such assistance transcends all other forms of aid, and such deeds surpass all others.  BH09655

In most Tablets We have commanded all to perform goodly deeds and manifest spiritual attributes. Blessed are they who have arisen to assist the Cause through the hosts of deeds and character. They are God's loved ones amidst His creatures.   BH02331

As for what thou didst desire concerning service, know that it dependeth upon goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. By Him Who holdeth my soul in His hands! Deeds are more potent than words. It behooveth the people of unity to counsel others through their deeds and their character.   BH01454

Hold fast unto deeds and unto that which We have revealed concerning conduct, then know ye that these are God's hosts on earth. He in Whose possession is the Mother Book doth testify to this. Aid ye your Lord through goodly character - through this His Cause is exalted in all regions.  BH02473

Repeatedly have such words been heard from the tongue of Him Who revealeth the verses. He would say that today righteous deeds and praiseworthy character are the promoters of the Cause of God. It is hoped that all shall be assisted to achieve that which is acceptable in the presence of God.  BH00094

In truth I say, pure deeds and praiseworthy character have been and continue to be the helpers of God's Cause in this Most Great Revelation. Blessed is he who renounceth his desires and holdeth fast unto the fear of God. He is assuredly among those who are nigh unto God in My perspicuous Book.  BH01472
