Concerning the word BAHA'O'LLAH: It must be written with o and not with u.  AB02536

"Good hand-writing consisteth in the ordered presentation of these symbols and signs. If, therefore, the script in a particular missive is lacking in precision, or is basically disordered, this should not be seen as evidence of disrespect"  AB03104


"Although in language 'light' (nur) means 'radiance' (diya) and 'radiance' means 'light' - that is, the words are synonymous and the meanings concordant"  AB07476

"In the Arabic there is no difference; the terms are used in exactly the same way. In the English language, man is the individual and human the collective term."  ABU2774

"In Arabic there are hundreds of names for the camel! In the schools of each nation the mother tongue will be taught, as well as the revised Universal Language."   ABU2871

Regarding the blessed word, the Greatest Name: Its writing or spelling is according to its pronunciation (i.e., it is spelled as it is pronounced) in the Persian language. Baha is correct; Beha is incorrect. However, this question must not cause inharmony and grief among the friends. The truth shall become manifest.   AB01614

As to the personal pronouns referable to His Holiness Christ, His Holiness Buddha, His Holiness Muhammad, His Holiness the Bab and the Blessed Beauty - and all of the Prophets of God - must without exception be capitalized for this is indicative of their Greatness. There is no doubt that these Souls were all Great; this is not a proof of divinity.  AB06747

It hath been ordained in the Gate of Alif that ye shall create a new script for the Bayan and all your writings after sixty-six years have passed if ye are able, and if not then after two hundred and two years if what is renewed is better than the first, that ye may perchance comprehend the conditions of the hereafter, and ye shall embellish all your writings from the first of what ye learn to the last of what ye comprehend.  BB00035


and as for 'sadhij' with 'dhal', it is known among the people, but the Primal Point - may my soul be a sacrifice for all else besides Him - wrote 'sazij', therefore I do not wish to change whatsoever hath appeared from my Beloved. Thus we referred it to the pen of the scribes - whatever flows is correct, even if different versions have flowed from their pens. Verily He is the Establisher of orthography and words, He ordaineth as He pleaseth.  BH11663

Know thou that God hath created in thee the luminous and dark letters from fourteen points of articulation. The first is a path of truth we hold fast to, and the second is all other letters beside these. All of this according to the number of stations mentioned by the astronomers, which are in reality the stations of the servant's journey through the letters, as men of understanding know that what is there can only be known through what is here.  BB00301

When God created the center of grammar from around the mystery of the line, We revealed unto it: "Draw not nigh unto the Tree of Beginning, for it is forbidden unto thee in truth." Then I allotted it a portion from the dust of the land of truth concerning nearness, but it drew nigh without permission. Then We decreed its expulsion from the Garden of the Gate, and from that portion which rose from its lower members We created the point of morphology as its mate.  BB00239

Say: To him who asked concerning the science of recitation: In the Name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate! Praise be to God Who created the letters according to the repetition of the name of the All-Bountiful from His own Self, and the letter la that the tongues of all created things might proclaim His praise in the letter la without the judgment which the Christians have taken therefrom in the form of the cross, and the Divine Nature resolved the alif of unity in the human nature of the letter of multiplicity which is the lam. BB00301

Thou didst ask concerning grammar. By my life, in my youth I paid no heed to the schools’ canons. Rather, the rule is that which ʿAlí—exalted be His remembrance—decreed in another place: every subject (fāʿil) is in the nominative, by reason of the appearance therein of the Name of God, al-Qābiḍ (the Withholder); every object (mafʿūl) is in the accusative, by reason of the appearance therein of the Name of God, al-Muḥyī (the Quickener); and every genitive (muḍāf ilayh) is in the genitive case, by reason of the appearance therein of the Name of God, al-Ḥayy (the Living), which is the station of the air, by which things are bound together. The root of the verb is the manifestation of the Hidden Name: a created quiescent thing unknown by quiescence; therefore the ordinances of the three disclosures run not upon it. All rules of grammar branch from the decree of these theophanies, for him who knoweth God’s ordinance in the kingdom of the Names and Attributes. BB00186



The Bab -- may my spirit be sacrificed for Him -- entirely abrogated the rules of language and freed the Arabic tongue. Thus, all the writings of His Holiness -- may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of His footsteps -- demolished the edifice of Arabic grammar. The Ancient Beauty -- may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones -- likewise, in His early writings, opposed the vain imaginings of grammatical rules. However, in the Most Great Prison, in consideration of certain scholars' objections, the verses and writings were revealed in accordance with the people's rules. Nevertheless, on certain occasions, merely to prevent the Arabic language from becoming fettered again in chains and bonds, words were revealed that broke the people's rules.  AB11842

Question: Concerning disparities between certain revealed verses. Answer: Many Tablets were revealed and dispatched in their original form without being checked and reviewed. Consequently, as bidden, they were again read out in the Holy Presence, and brought into conformity with the grammatical conventions of the people in order to forestall the cavils of opponents of the Cause. Another reason for this practice is that the new style inaugurated by the Herald, may the souls of all else but Him be offered up for His sake, was seen to be marked by substantial latitude in adherence to the rules of grammar; sacred verses therefore were then revealed in a style which is for the most part in conformity with current usage for ease of understanding and concision of expression.  BH00069

Knowledge is in His grasp; He turns it how He wishes. For example, in some places a verse that according to outward rules should be in the nominative or genitive case is revealed in the accusative case. In this instance, either "kana" is implied, or similar accusative particles and their positions. And if somewhere it is revealed in the genitive while according to common practice it should not be, in this case the genitive particle or the possessive construct that causes the genitive is omitted. Apply this rule universally. Likewise, in some instances it relates to the style of verses - We do not wish to mention rhyme in this station. Similarly, according to the leaders of grammar, an intransitive verb appears in transitive form in three ways: through repetition, with "ba", and with "hamza". This is respected among the people, but in divine knowledge, by contextual evidence, an intransitive verb becomes transitive and a transitive verb becomes intransitive. Blessed are those who know, and blessed is he who is certain that all sciences are in the grasp of his Lord's power, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Similarly, a transitive verb, for example like "rafa'a" is revealed as "arfa'a", and examples of this existed in heavenly books before. This is for emphasis - there is no harm in it.  BH00781

And then, I have answered thy question concerning the ruling of the origins of letters and their points of articulation. Bear thou witness with certitude that the origin of the science of recitation was taken from him whose nature remained unchanged, for when God created the letters, He created their places and points of articulation in the servant such that he needeth not to learn from any among men. Just as thou seest with thine eyes, so do the letters emerge from their points of articulation which God created in thee, without similitude or comparison. Yea, if thou art certain of the change in thy nature, it is incumbent upon thee to learn from those who possess this knowledge. But beware, beware of the people of innovation whose forms change during recitation, for that is pure sin. The Hijazi recitation and eloquence in true melody is that thy countenance should not change during recitation. Thus hath God created thee, and men have no power to change God's creation. BB00301

Your letters arrived repeatedly before, but nothing since then - although "nothing" itself contains much meaning, as it possesses the "h" with two eyes, the "y" adorned with two dots, and the "j" with three dots. In truth, all is concealed and hidden within nothingness.  BH01913


The learned ones say that if it is conditional, then if ye but knew is not permissible. Act according to what We previously commanded and write accordingly. In some instances both forms are permissible, though one is preferred. For example, "associate with religions" is preferable to "associate with the religions". Regarding amma and mimma, act in accordance with the Book of God, that is, the Quran, though both forms have flowed from the Pen.  BH10069

"...Angelic and human, celestial and aerial, fiery are her fragrant breezes - southerly, easterly, westerly, northerly - all directions are her directions." And when thou hast understood this, know that Writing is likewise. For when letters are elevated and enter their gardens, all letters become one letter, all words one word, all languages one language, and all grammatical forms one form. Then a single word becomes noun and verb and particle, declinable and indeclinable, variable and invariable, subject and object, possessed and possessor, subject and predicate, circumstantial phrase and specification - unto infinity. A single governing word effects nominative, accusative, genitive and jussive cases, while a single governed word becomes nominative, accusative, genitive and jussive by condition. Thou seest not the nominative as other than the accusative, nor the accusative as other than the genitive, nor the genitive as other than the jussive. Each word indicates every meaning, and a single word becomes singular and dual and plural, masculine and feminine. When thou hast understood this, O precious youth, solace of the discerning ones, mirror of the wise, lamp of the learned, light of the mystics, radiance of the monotheists, brother of prophethood and mine of divine authority - may God preserve him from the eyes of the oppressors - when he desired that people should know that station and that drops might splash upon them from that vast ocean, they recoiled from him and turned back on their heels, saying "We have never heard the like of this; this is naught but error." God slay them for their lack of understanding! This eloquent nightingale warbled upon the tree of origin and return. And since he - peace be upon him - was of the people of that Faith, his words must needs be thus, for the effect resembles the qualities of its cause. This is no proof of imperfection, rather it is proof of perfection in the eyes of those possessed of perfection who have attained the pinnacle of moderation [i'tidal]. Woe, utter woe unto those who say that he - peace be upon him - knows not grammar and morphology! How could he not know, when the essence of all knowledge is in his hand and the reality of all things is with him? The essence of grammar is with him, and the essence of morphology. These people have naught but the husks and outer forms that neither nourish nor satisfy hunger. BB00023

