There are three ancient Bibles. 1st the Jewish Bible 2d the [Sanhedrin] Bible which was translated by seventy wisest Rabbis into Greek at the time of Alexander [crossed out and replaced with Ptolemy]. 3d the Samaritan Bible. These three Bibles differ a great deal from each other on historical ground. For instance, in one Bible you read the age of a certain patriarch was 120 yrs; in another bible it says 80 yrs and in the third bible it says 60 yrs. It is most difficult to say which one of these Bibles is correct, for each [seat] holding fast to his own bible claiming it to be the only authoritative one and the other two as unreliable. Therefore all the historical parts of the Bible belong to the historians but the commandments and the Decalogue belong to Moses. ABU2619

In the copies of the talk given by Abdul-Baha to the Society of Friends in London, there seems to be a discrepancy in the time in the opening line. In some it reads, About six thousand years ago, in others six hundred years, and in others sixty years.  AB11297

Eminent doctors in overwhelming might compassed Him on all sides, and such was the onset of orthodoxy that it had been no great wonder if a mere youth had not withstood the mountain of Elburz. They demanded proof. Without hesitation He recited texts, saying, This is the permanent and most mighty proof. They criticized His grammar. He adduced arguments from the Qur'an, setting forth therefrom instances of similar infractions of the rules of grammar.  AB00003

The Qur'an itself does in no wise accord with the rules and conventions current amongst men. The Word of God can never be subject to the limitations of His creatures. Nay, the rules and canons which men have adopted have been deduced from the text of the Word of God and are based upon it. These men have, in the very texts of that holy Book, discovered no less than three hundred instances of grammatical error, such as the one you now criticise. Inasmuch as it was the Word of God, they had no other alternative except to resign themselves to His will.  BBU0004

O Zayn, the delay in answering what you asked about the verses has been for the preservation of change, for in the early days there was absolutely no consideration of the people's rules at the time of revelation, while in these days it is observed out of wisdom. Therefore, if a Tablet from before is read in the presence of the Face, it descends in some stations differently than what was revealed before. This refers to the outward expression, but in reality whatever was revealed was and will be correct.... Knowledge is in His grasp; He turns it how He wishes. For example, in some places a verse that according to outward rules should be in the nominative or genitive case is revealed in the accusative case. In this instance, either "kana" is implied, or similar accusative particles and their positions. And if somewhere it is revealed in the genitive while according to common practice it should not be, in this case the genitive particle or the possessive construct that causes the genitive is omitted. Apply this rule universally. Likewise, in some instances it relates to the style of verses - We do not wish to mention rhyme in this station. Similarly, according to the leaders of grammar, an intransitive verb appears in transitive form in three ways: through repetition, with "ba", and with "hamza". This is respected among the people, but in divine knowledge, by contextual evidence, an intransitive verb becomes transitive and a transitive verb becomes intransitive. Blessed are those who know, and blessed is he who is certain that all sciences are in the grasp of his Lord's power, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Similarly, a transitive verb, for example like "rafa'a" is revealed as "arfa'a", and examples of this existed in heavenly books before. This is for emphasis - there is no harm in it. O Zayn of the near ones, the Manifest Beauty is afflicted between two parties. If creation were to become aware in what state the scratching of the Most Exalted Pen is raised, and in what tribulation the Tongue of Grandeur speaks, all would cast off the garment of existence and seek the adornment of non-existence. BH00781


