
The favors of the Most Great Name are all-encompassing!   AB04633

Hasten to the Greatest Name that brings the dead to life!  AB05359

By God! The Lord of Eternity hath come with the Most Great Name.   BH08813

Today is the day when the Sun of the Most Great Name is rising from the horizon of the world, mentioned in every Book by a different name. In the Torah It appeared and was recorded by the name of Jehovah - a name which, before the advent of Moses, was concealed in God's treasury of knowledge. Thus in the Torah He says: "I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob as God Almighty, but by My name Jehovah I was not known to them."   BH00193

by Thy Greatest Name whereby Thou hast subdued the cities of names  BH09325

O God of the world, Who hast manifested through the Most Great Name!  BH09083

The world hath been adorned with the ornament of the Most Great Name   BH08760

The sun of My Most Glorious Name has dawned from the supreme horizon.  BH07140

I beseech Thee by the Name through which the heaven was cleft asunder   BH11111

so that the power of the Most Great Name may influence both essence and form  AB10016

and thus became the Greatest Name, rising and shining at the Pole of Creation  AB11125

The horizon of the world hath been illumined by the Sun of My Most Great Name   BH09841

Be thou joyous and gladdened under the shade of the Greatest Name's providence  AB06861

and as a manifestation in the world and the Most Great Name amongst the peoples   BH10954

The horizon of the world is illumined with the splendors of the Most Great Name   BH10013

"except through the power of the Greatest Name and the hosts that ye cannot see"  AB09246

through divine grace, heavenly guidance and the outpourings of the Greatest Name   AB05548

that the people of Baha may attain certitude through this Most Great, Supreme Name  BH09470

Thou didst aid Thy Cause with the Pen and didst summon through the Most Great Name.  BH06824

and the One Who has dawned upon the horizons of the world through the Greatest Name  AB06460

Seek thou shelter in the Greatest Name, and appear in the utmost strength and power.  BH06225

Hold fast unto the Most Great Name and conquer hearts through this wise remembrance.   BH06743

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, whereby the hearts of the nations were shaken   BH06592

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name which hath spoken that there is no God but Thee   BH08527

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Most Great Name, the All-Glorious, the Most Glorious   BH07662

He hath shone forth from the horizon of the world with His Most Great Name, the Hidden   BH09942

Blessed is he who hath clung to the Most Great Name and held fast to His luminous hem.   BH05387

Break the chains of the utterances of the wicked through the power of the Most Great Name  BH07606

The breast of the world hath been dilated through the manifestation of My Most Great Name   BH09823

"through the Most Great Name, hath cast down the banner of associating partners with God"   BH04701

This cycle is the cycle of the manifestation of the Most Great Name and the Ancient Beauty  AB12326

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name through which the ocean of Thy bounty and mercy surged  BH07799

He Who speaketh is verily the Most Great Name, Who was hidden in the eternity of eternities   BH07143

O peoples of the earth! The Most Great Name hath come, calling you unto the Supreme Horizon.  BH06382

I beseech Thee, O Light of the world and Illuminator of the nations, by the Most Great Name   BH09739

I beseech Thee by Thy most sweet call, and by the Name of Thy Most Great, Most Glorious Name   BH10856

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, through which Thou hast separated between the nations   BH09866

by Thy Most Great Name whereby the ocean of recognition surged before the faces of the peoples   BH10934

to open through the key of Thy Most Great Name the doors of Thy grace and bounty unto all peoples   BH10075

The chain of servitude to the Blessed Beauty is connected to and associated with the Greatest Name  AB08301

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name which was hidden in Thy knowledge and treasured up with Thee   BH10363

Verily the Book speaketh through this Most Great Name, whereby the hearts of the world were shaken   BH03979

The power of the Greatest Name enabled Christ to grant divine life to those dead in self and passion   AB05266

The Banner of Pre-existence hath been raised through the Most Great Name upon the mount of the world.   BH07767

"There lie glorious meanings in the word "Allaho-ABHA". I hope thou wilt discover those significances."  AB01722

clinging to Thy All-Bountiful Name and to Thy Most Great Name...I beseech Thee...by the Most Great Name   BH08835

O friends! Through the power of the Most Great Name, remain firm and steadfast on the Most Straight Path   BH06739

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name, through which the lands were shaken and the servants were disturbed   BH06297

Through the power of the Most Great Name thou must needs manifest supreme steadfastness amidst all peoples.  BH05647

That which thou hast extracted from the verses concerning the Greatest Name was accepted before the Throne.   BH09291

and giveth glad tidings to the peoples of the Most Great Name, Who hath summoned all unto the supreme horizon  BH07103

The greeting is the blessed word "Baha-u-Abha" which is inscribed by the Supreme Pen on the tablets of hearts   AB00421

He summoneth all peoples, through His Most Great Name, to His highest horizon and His most glorious appearance.   BH10305

Through the blessedness of the Most Great Name, drink ye thereof at all times and offer it freely to all mankind  BH10208

drink from the choice wine of My Most Glorious Name, whose seal We have broken through My sovereignty and power   BH03975

The Most Great Name hath appeared, Who was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of what was and what shall be.   BH08884

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name, through which the Kingdom of Names appeared and all things came into being  BH07686

I beseech Thee by Thy binding Command and by Thy Most Great Name, whereby the hearts of the nations were stirred   BH05641

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name, through whose grief the dwellers of Thy most exalted Paradise did lament  BH10591

The reality of generosity, like the Most Great Name, became manifest and embodied in this most glorious Revelation  AB09541

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name through which the breezes of the dawn of Revelation have wafted over all lands  BH09857

Today, through the assistance of the Most Great Name, the pearls of certitude and knowledge are manifest and visible.   BH02526

He is the One Who calleth betwixt earth and heaven, and He is the One manifest through the Greatest Name in the world.   BH10403

Be thou known for thy love of thy Lord and for giving voice to this Great Name... I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name   BH06273

Remind the people of this Most Great Name, that they may become aware and turn unto God, the Peerless, the All-Informed.  BH03516

All praise be to God Who hath exalted His verses in His glorious Book, and He is God, the Ever-Watchful over all things.  BB00002

"Oh! Upon this stone is impressed the Name of Baha'u'llah' she fairly cried out with happiness and serenity in her face."  ABU1179

Praise be unto Thee for having manifested Thyself through Thy Most Great Name unto all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH05777

"However, today the cry of the Supreme Concourse is "Allah-u-Abha" and the spirit of this servant is stirred by this call."  AB00524

I beseech Thee by Him Who is the Purpose of the world and by the Most Great Name which Thou hast manifested amidst the nations  BH07783

This is the Most Great Name and the Most Perfect, Most Ancient Blessed Word - at its very mention the evil ones are scattered.   BH05278

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, through which every rock and clod and leaf hath spoken forth Thy praise and glorification   BH08862

the One made manifest through the Most Great Name, whereby the heavens and earth were illumined in Thy wondrous and wonderful Day.   BH09630

Thou hast asked for stones with the Greatest Name. At present there are not any at hand. God willing, they will be sent afterwards.  AB12394

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great, Most Glorious Name, through which the ocean of bounty surged and the fragrance of eternity wafted   BH10576

Take hold of the Most Great Name through the power of Him Who is the Lord of Eternity, and cast aside that which the peoples possess.  BH09125

This is the power of the Greatest Name that makes the great ones conquered by little children and renowned hawks subdued by lowly mosquitoes.  AB01922

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, whereby the dwellers of the cities of names and the Concourse on High were seized with ecstasy   BH10371

And attained unto the Most Great Ocean when it surged through this Name which God hath made to prevail over all who are in the lands.   BH02167

The Ancient Beauty hath turned His face toward the world, and verily He is the Most Great Name, calling out with the most exalted call   BH07179

If thou shouldst ask the atoms about the Source of verses, they would say: "He hath come with His holy, mighty and inaccessible kingdom!"   BH03879

It is indeed the Most Great Name through which the peoples were scattered and the sincere ones were gathered at the shore of the Ancient Sea   BH04639

Be confident in the influence of the Greatest Name, which makes the blind see, the deaf hear, the mute speak, and brings the dead back to life.   AB04413

whenever you wish your soul's palate to become sweet and your conscience to be filled with honey, raise the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha!"  AB12689

through the bounty of the Almighty, thou mayest become informed of the concealed mystery and recondite symbol of the stone of the Most Great Name.  AB07513

The hearts of all who dwell on earth have been stirred by the sweet-scented breezes wafting from the garden of nations through the most great Name.  AB10724

Blessed is the state of the one who, detached from the world, hath clung to the Most Great Name and received his portion from the ocean of His grace.   BH09787

Praise be to God, the bestowals of the Greatest Name are manifest like the rays of the sun, its radiance is evident, and all are present in His Kingdom.  AB01744

Thus have We wafted unto thee the fragrances of the All-Merciful from this Paradise, and verily thou shalt find them in My most wondrous and matchless words.   BH06653

Thus if you desire protection from the powers of the world and earthly influences, place the Greatest Name in your dwelling, wear the ring of the Greatest Name  AB06032

Today through the key of the Most Great Name the gates of bounty, mercy, compassion, knowledge and understanding have been opened before the faces of the world   BH06794

He ariseth amidst mankind and speaketh through the Most Great Name with wisdom and utterance in such wise that the clamor of the heedless shall not silence him.   BH09351

from the direction wherein was established the Most Great Name and wherein He shed His radiance upon all who are in the heavens and the earth and beneath the soil  BH08475

The use of the Greatest Name and dependence upon it, cause the soul to strip itself of the husks of mortality and to step forth freed, reborn, and new creature...  AB11550

Despite His imprisonment and tribulation, He summoneth the world through His Most Great Name with a power that the might of the oppressors hath failed to withhold.   BH09756

the influences of the Most Great Name will become so manifest in the soul and consciousness, even in bone and flesh, that the mind will be bewildered and confounded.  AB09567

This great name is the Greatest Name. The Blessed Beauty is intended. What we have today are the meanings of two of the letters of the Greatest Name. They are: B and H.  AB11329

the effects of the Greatest Name will become so manifest and evident in the soul and conscience, even in bone and flesh, that the mind will be bewildered and confounded  AB09567

"This is the Most Great Name of God concerning which God's Proof and Evidence gave tidings. By My life! No mention nor utterance hath appeared more explicit than this."   BH09112

That great Name is the Most Great Name, meaning the Blessed Beauty, and what is available today is the meaning of two letters of the Most Great Name, and these are B and H.  AB09643

The Tongue hath spoken before the faces of the world and given them glad tidings of the Most Great Name, that they might rejoice in the days of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH10351

Blessed is he who takes his portion from the Most Great Ocean and arises amidst the peoples with this Name which God has made the Sovereign of names in the kingdom of creation   BH06391

The mention of the name of Baha'u'llah is the cause of the expansion of hearts and the joy of spirits, from whatever tongue thou hearest it, but it does not become a personal name.  AB11476

This revered name was, in the Dispensation of the Furqan, a banner raised for the Wronged One who was honored, and in this Dispensation it is the first element of the Greatest Name.  AB09329

The true believer in divine unity is he who cleaveth unto this Name which God hath made the Sovereign of Names, and he who turneth away from it remaineth veiled in concealment.   BH02485

All have heard that it hath been said that the Most Great Name is mentioned and concealed in this prayer, and now it is manifest and speaking and hath dawned upon all who dwell on earth  BH02897

O concourse of the world! By God, the Most Great Name hath come, which was inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in every unfurled scroll, every sealed book, and every recorded tablet.   BH07187

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, through which whoso hath borne it hath not drowned in the seas, nor been affected by the arrows of the wicked, nor been altered by poisons and denial  BH08823

Due to the honor of this blessed Name, I long to see thy face so that I may hear this blessed Name from thy tongue with my own ears. Consider with what a bounty thou hast been distinguished!   AB02696

Whoso hath attained unto recognition in this Day hath attained unto all good. The whole world was created for this blessed Day which in the divine Books hath been designated as the Day of God.  BH05216

This honored name was, in the Dispensation of the Furqan, a banner raised for the Wronged One, and in this Dispensation it is the first element of the Greatest Name. Observe how blessed it is!  AB09329

I sat by the child and took its hand, and said the Greatest Name, and in a few hours the child began to improve. As far as my mentality goes I cannot see that the remedy did the child any good.   ABU0060

Write thou that these verses are the Most Great Name, which if God should place it upon a mountain, He would make it Sinai, and if upon the earth, He would make it the Sacred House through His command.  BB00004

and by Thy Most Great, Most Perfect, Most Generous Name, through which all faces have turned toward the face of Thy Self-Sufficiency, and all hearts have been made to drink the holy waters of Thy Oneness  BH07651

The verses were sent down when the signs appeared and the Spirit speaketh between the world and giveth glad-tidings unto the nations of the Most Great Name, whereby all who are in the heavens and earth were illumined.  BH08359

Nothing that is witnessed and seen will profit you this Day save through this Name which God has made the Dayspring of His names, the Manifestation of His attributes and the Dawning-Place of His firm and mighty Cause.   BH07916

We have opened the gates of utterance with the key of Our Most Great Name, and hearts through this Name whereby all who are in the heavens and on earth have been attracted - were We to speak of it, all would be thunderstruck.   BH04686

"O Most Great Name! We, verily, have made thee to be among the greatest of names, that thou mayest issue forth from the abode of silence, and rise above the dawning-place of utterance to proclaim a Cause that hath encompassed all worlds."  BH03669

He hath ordained for every name an influence and sovereignty over the seen and the unseen, and hath made the effect of all names dependent upon His Most Great Name, which hath indeed been made manifest through truth, yet most people have turned away from it.  BH04736

All have been created for this Day, yet all are found to be heedless and veiled save those who have cast away the world and have clung to the Most Great Name, whereby the hearts of the peoples who turned away from God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, have been shaken.   BH09270

Verily the Most Great Name consisteth of four elements if ye but knew: To believe in God and His signs, then in the Prophet and those who are witnesses after Him, then in the Gates of Guidance. Thus have ye fulfilled the command of God and discovered the Most Great Name.  BB00004

Impart thou the Greatest Name to the ears, so that all may call out among nations: "O Thou Baha' of the world! O Thou Sun of Pre-existence!" Truly, I say unto thee, this blessed Name is the spirit of life, the deliverer from death, the word of salvation and of manifest signs!   AB00671

When my gaze fell upon the Greatest Name, occupying as it did the place of honour in the room of this great personage, I was all at once overcome by a feeling of immense joy and happiness. To this day the memory of that joy and happiness abideth with me; nor shall I ever forget it.  AB00467

As for the seven spirits and seven stars mentioned in the Revelation of John, these refer to the seven letters found in the Greatest Name, for this Name with its seven letters has shone upon the horizons and illumined creation with brilliant rays from the Kingdom of the All-Merciful.  AB03527

This is the Day whereon it is incumbent upon everyone that seeth to behold, and every ear that hearkeneth to hear, and every heart that understandeth to perceive, and every tongue that speaketh to proclaim unto all who are in heaven and on earth, this holy, this exalted, and all-highest Name.  BH10986

This sovereign remedy is none other than the love of the Blessed Beauty and His Sacred Dispensation ordained by the One True God for it will speedily restore true health. This patent medicine is the Love of the Greatest Name because it embraces all the perfections and conditions of existence.  AB06172

This is the Name wherewith Thou hast adorned the preamble of the Tablet of Eternity, and made it the ornament of Thine own Self, O Thou Who art the Sovereign of the kingdoms of names. And Thou hast commanded all to recite it at dawn, that none among those endowed with vision might be debarred therefrom.   BH07650

I implore Thee, by Thy Most Great Name through Which Thou didst stir up Thy servants and build up Thy cities, and by Thy most excellent titles, and Thy most august attributes, to assist Thy people to turn in the direction of Thy manifold bounties, and set their faces towards the Tabernacle of Thy wisdom.  BH07105

The Greatest Name should be found upon the lips in the first awaking moment of early dawn. It should be fed upon by constant use in daily invocation, in trouble, under opposition, and should be the last word breathed when the head rests upon the pillow at night. It is the name of comfort, protection, happiness, illumination, love and unity.  AB09731

I invoke Thee by Thy Most Great Name through which the hidden secrets of God, the Most Exalted, were divulged and the kindreds of all nations converged toward the focal center of faith and certitude, through which Thy luminous Words streamed forth for the quickening of mankind and the essence of all knowledge was revealed from that Embodiment of bounty.  BB00534

Its opening was adorned with this blessed verse: "O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy most glorious glory [Baha]." ... it is most clear and evident that the station of mentioning the Most Great Name is at the beginning, since it precedes all names and is the source and dawning-place of all remembrances, and it appears at the opening of the aforementioned prayer.   BH08416

The key to the treasured mystery and the hidden secret had ever been recorded and concealed within the divine Books and Scriptures, but today, through celestial grace, that Most Great Key hath become manifest and visible, and it was the Most Great Name of God, through whose blessing the gates of knowledge and wisdom have been and continue to be opened unto hearts.   BH02843

To those possessed of insight it is clear and evident that the station of the mention of the Most Great Name must be at the beginning, for it precedes all names and is the source and dawning-place of all remembrance...Blessed art thou for having adorned thy letter with this Name, through which the limbs of the divines trembled and the hearts of the ecclesiastics were troubled  BH02945

The Most Great Names and the One possessed of Supreme Might, and the One endowed with Purpose in all things, and the One with All-Conquering Dominion, and the One with Far-Reaching Power, and the One whose Word is Well-Pleasing, and the One with Unshakeable Proofs, and the One with Everlasting Sovereignty, and the One with Glorious Dominion, and the One with Exalted Grace, and the One with Lofty Praise   BB00217

This is the Name which, were God to place it upon that mountain, would make it Sinai, and were God to send it down upon the land wherein thou wast born, would make it a House - a House of security for all the worlds, for those who believe in God and His signs and who circle round about it. This is the Name which, were God to send it down upon Muhammad, would make him a Messenger, and were God to send it down upon Ali, would make him an Imam from His presence, then upon those who are witnesses after him as Letters of Truth from His presence, then upon all things to make them God's creation.  BB00004

If read carefully, it will become clear and evident that it is very detailed, for the mention of the Greatest Name - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones - is recorded therein, and that encompasses all meanings of knowledge - knowledge is but a single point, which the ignorant have multiplied - is a saying of His Holiness the Prince [Imam 'Ali], and that point is the Greatest Name, and the explanation of this matter with sufficient and complete proof is detailed and expounded in the commentary on Bismi'llahi'r-Rahmani'r-Rahim.  AB08984

