The illumined philosophers say that only two persons have been entitled with the designation of "teacher" - one the renowned Aristotle and the other the famous Farabi. Ibn Sina (Avicenna) claimed to be a teacher, but since he did not fulfill the conditions, he was designated as "chief" instead. AB07557

The first one is Aristotle who was well-versed in all the sciences and accomplishments of his time.   ABU1498

This was the reason for the progress of Greek schools - they taught both divine and natural philosophy  ABU1166

For instance, the philosophers of Greece established a material civilization whereas Christ established a spiritual civilization.   ABU1982

When Aristotle would go forth with Alexander, they would carry nine idols before him. These ten intellects are Aristotle's concept.   ABU0675

The ancient philosophers of Greece, Persia, and Egypt believed that God manifested in material things His final and supreme Reality.   ABU1567

They say that the first teacher Aristotle was distinguished in all sciences above all nations and was among the most renowned of the children of Adam. Consider how knowledge and understanding are the cause of such glory in this contingent world that a Greek person became praised and accepted by the Roman and Persian nations, indeed by all humanity - and this although his sciences pertained to the contingent world. AB07187

Alexander of Greece sought kingship and sovereignty and world conquest in this mortal realm, and in the end it became manifest loss and great harm and severe regret.   AB11966

The Greeks had philosophers and great men, but while their civilization was full of beauty and was superior to that of the Romans, it was material--neither moral nor spiritual.  The foundation of the Roman civilization was force; consequently, a downfall was inevitable. ABU3035

The renowned Plato was a physical physician and a mere human being, yet because he arose with great determination he became accepted throughout the horizons and famous in the world of ethics   AB02671

Among the Greek kings there was one named Lycurgus who was both king and philosopher. His intentions were very good. He thought to make his people equal in livelihood. He divided his kingdom's inhabitants into three parts: one part he made leaders, another part he made of original inhabitants as farmers who would cultivate and pay a tithe, and the third part he made merchants and craftsmen, mostly from foreigners, who would pay something annually. The first part, which was his own kind, he counted and they were nine thousand. He made them the country's leaders and gave each special privileges so they would not farm, craft or trade, but would be leaders handling political affairs and warfare. When war arose they would go to battle while the other two groups would not participate in war unless they volunteered. He raised these nine thousand from childhood with hardship and difficulty until age six, then had them do military exercises so they would train in warfare all day. When they reached ten they would ride horses, and at twenty they would attain military ranks and distinctions. The land was divided into nine parts for them and they swore not to change this arrangement. When the people had sworn and committed to not changing these rules, he left the country, gave up his kingdom and never returned so that law would remain. The people had all sworn and did not change it for a while, but after some time it changed again and those laws were overturned.  ABU0462

The first person who devoted himself to philosophy was Idris. Thus was he named. Some called him also Hermes. In every tongue he hath a special name. He it is who hath set forth in every branch of philosophy thorough and convincing statements. After him Balinus derived his knowledge and sciences from the Hermetic Tablets and most of the philosophers who followed him made their philosophical and scientific discoveries from his words and statements...' In the Qur'an, Sura 19, verses 57 and 58, is written: 'And commemorate Idris in the Book; for he was a man of truth, a Prophet; And we uplifted him to a place on high.'  BH00409

The well-known Plato would not accept a pupil until he saw him. He would examine the student for a time and study his features. Aristotle came to become one of his students. He knew Aristotle and knew that Aristotle did not have capacity for medicine, so he sent word, 'I cannot accept you (as my student).' Plato had seen Aristotle in childhood and that is why he would not accept him. Aristotle understood why he was not accepted and wrote a letter to Plato saying, 'Thou hast seen me as a child, when I had no capacity for medicine and I had other capacities and that is not acceptable to you. That is correct. I have no objection to that, but with education I have changed and now I have a capacity for that, therefore if thou acceptest me thou wilt become happy - thou wilt see that thy education is not spoiled.' Plato accepted Aristotle when Aristotle said, 'I have been educated.' ABU0177

The influence of the wisest philosophers, without this Spirit Divine, has been comparatively unimportant... The unusual intellects, for instance, of Plato, Aristotle, Pliny and Socrates, have not influenced men so greatly that they have been anxious to sacrifice their lives for their teachings; whilst some of those simple men so moved humanity that thousands of men have become willing martyrs to uphold their words; for these words were inspired by the Divine Spirit of God!  ABU0416

The ancient Greek philosophers, as well as the Persian, were in the habit of delivering their discourses in the following manner: First, there would be musical melodies, and when the audience had been influenced to a certain extent thereby, they would leave their instruments and begin their discourse.   ABU0381

Thy namesake, Aristotle, meticulously searched through the subtleties of reality, thoroughly and in detail, yet he obtained a mere drop from the ocean and a sheer grain from the whole harvest. However, he made such discoveries within natural philosophy that he became renowned and famous throughout all lands.  AB02372

There are many militarists of the ancient, conservative school who hold the opinion that Alexander of Macedon was the greatest born leader, an empire-builder, a wonderful general and a great warrior. His conquests of the East are celebrated in songs and his matchless prowess is the theme of many a dramatic recital.   ABU0133

Even many Greek philosophers, such as Socrates and Pythagoras, hastened to the Holy Land and acquired sciences and arts from Israel, then returned to Greece and made the Greeks learned and awakened them from the sleep of negligence. This is how the Greek philosophers acquired such fame and renown in sciences and arts.   AB00076

Mrs. F: In Abdul Baha's talk at Stanford University in California, he stated that the Greek philosophers journeyed to the holy land, studied with the Jewish doctors and then returned to Greece. Did Socrates travel to the Holy Land. A.B.: Yes, after returning from the Holy Land to Greece, he established the principle of the unity of God and the immortality of the soul. The people opposed him because this teaching was contrary to their belief. They brought him before the king and gave him poison. When he took the cup he said that he was glad he was going from this land to another one. It is written in Greek history. ABU0539

Even Plato at first proved through rational arguments the immobility of the earth and the movement of the sun, and then subsequently established, again through rational arguments, the centrality of the sun and the movement of the earth. The Ptolemaic theory became widespread and Plato's theory was entirely forgotten until a modern astronomer revived it.  AB00520

The sages aforetime acquired their knowledge from the Prophets, inasmuch as the latter were the Exponents of divine philosophy and the Revealers of heavenly mysteries. Men quaffed the crystal, living waters of Their utterance, while others satisfied themselves with the dregs.... Empedocles, who distinguished himself in philosophy, was a contemporary of David, while Pythagoras lived in the days of Solomon, son of David, and acquired Wisdom from the treasury of prophethood. It is he who claimed to have heard the whispering sound of the heavens and to have attained the station of the angels.... Consider Hippocrates, the physician. He was one of the eminent philosophers who believed in God and acknowledged His sovereignty. After him came Socrates who was indeed, wise, accomplished and righteous. He practised self-denial, repressed his appetites for selfish desires and turned away from material pleasures. He withdrew to the mountains where he dwelt in a cave. He dissuaded men from worshipping idols and taught them the way of God, the Lord of Mercy, until the ignorant rose up against him. They arrested him and put him to death in prison. Thus relateth to thee this swift-moving Pen. What a penetrating vision into philosophy this eminent man had! He is the most distinguished of all philosophers and was highly versed in wisdom. We testify that he is one of the heroes in this field and an outstanding champion dedicated unto it. He had a profound knowledge of such sciences as were current amongst men as well as of those which were veiled from their minds. Methinks he drank one draught when the Most Great Ocean overflowed with gleaming and life-giving waters. He it is who perceived a unique, a tempered, and a pervasive nature in things, bearing the closest likeness to the human spirit, and he discovered this nature to be distinct from the substance of things in their refined form. He hath a special pronouncement on this weighty theme. Wert thou to ask from the worldly wise of this generation about this exposition, thou wouldst witness their incapacity to grasp it. Verily, thy Lord speaketh the truth but most people comprehend not. After Socrates came the divine Plato who was a pupil of the former and occupied the chair of philosophy as his successor. He acknowledged his belief in God and in His signs which pervade all that hath been and shall be. Then came Aristotle, the well-known man of knowledge. He it is who discovered the power of gaseous matter. These men who stand out as leaders of the people and are pre-eminent among them, one and all acknowledged their belief in the immortal Being Who holdeth in His grasp the reins of all sciences. BH00223

Such was their progress that the philosophers of Greece would come to seek knowledge from the learned men of Israel. Among them was Socrates, who came to Syria and acquired from the children of Israel the teachings of the oneness of God and the immortality of the spirit. He then returned to Greece and promulgated these teachings, whereupon the people of that land rose up in opposition to him, accused him of impiety, arraigned him before the court, and condemned him to death by poison....  The materialistic thinkers, the Greek philosophers, and the great men of Rome who became renowned in the world were each versed in but one branch of learning. Thus Galen and Hippocrates were celebrated for their skill in medicine, Aristotle in logic and speculative reasoning, and Plato in ethics and divine philosophy. AB00855

Exalted then be God above what the peripatetic philosophers have fabricated concerning the word of connection between the Lord and creation, taking their ruling from the word of the Christians after God had detailed the signs of His love in their realities. They went astray and led others astray unknowingly, and they were followed in their vain desires by the illuminationist philosophers and some of the divine theologians regarding the word of unity in existence.   BB00216

The philosophers of Greece -- such as Aristotle, Socrates, Plato and others -- were devoted to the investigation of both natural and spiritual phenomena. In their schools of teaching they discoursed upon the world of nature as well as the supernatural world. Today the philosophy and logic of Aristotle are known throughout the world. Because they were interested in both natural and divine philosophy, furthering the development of the physical world of mankind as well as the intellectual, they rendered praiseworthy service to humanity.  ABU0150

It is recorded in eastern histories that Socrates journeyed to Palestine and Syria and there, from men learned in the things of God, acquired certain spiritual truths; that when he returned to Greece, he promulgated two beliefs: one, the unity of God, and the other, the immortality of the soul after its separation from the body; that these concepts, so foreign to their thought, raised a great commotion among the Greeks, until in the end they gave him poison and killed him. And this is authentic; for the Greeks believed in many gods, and Socrates established the fact that God is one, which obviously was in conflict with Greek beliefs. Eastern histories also state that Hippocrates sojourned for a long time in the town of Tyre, and this is a city in Syria.   AB02343
