the receptivity of the West increaseth day by day   AB05452

souls will day by day attain new confirmation and success  AB11734

it will expand day by day until it spreads throughout all regions  AB09947

day by day the banner of God's Cause waves more strongly and rises higher   AB03375

The world and its condition will change to such a degree and the Baha'i Cause will prevail to such an extent that nothing but a remnant - like these pillars - will remain of the previous order.   ABU3468

But alas! This Cause, though it first appeared in Persia, yet eventually it shall be seen how the peoples of Europe have wrested it from its hands! Take note of this and remember it in future.   AB02805

Day by day the Cause of God will gain strength and the Word of God will be exalted  AB01610

After the departure of His Holiness Christ there were only eleven disciples whose faith was shaken and outwardly they were of the low class, deprived of any social distinctions! Now behold the results of their work. But after the departure of the Blessed Perfection there were more than one million believers scattered all over the earth, all of whom were faithful, sincere and self-sacrificing.   ABU2039

Some regions of Europe are in a state of intense burning and day by day numerous souls are entering.  AB00903

Yet day by day the Tree of God's Cause grew more vigorous and its manifestation became more magnificent.  AB06869

This heavenly gathering will grow day by day, the intoxicated friends will increase in rapture and ecstasy  AB04446

Praise be to God that the divine Cause has become world-embracing and the divine friends are increasing day by day   AB02537

Day by day may the effects of the penetration of the Word of God increase, and may the friends advance ever further.  AB12224

Praise be to God, the Cause of God is ascending in all regions and day by day the Blessed Tree is growing and developing.  AB03534

when perfect fellowship is achieved among the friends in New York, the Cause of God will become more influential day by day   AB04743

Assuredly the Cause of God will advance day by day, for the power of the Holy Spirit confirms it and the Word of God grants success.  AB04047

I always ask God that the lights of the Kingdom may shine more brightly day by day in Washington and that region may become more illumined  AB12116

Day by day victory and triumph advance. We hope that through the hosts of wisdom and utterance His loved ones may conquer hearts and minds.   BH09180

Praise be to God that the Cause of God is day by day becoming more exalted, and that the extent of my correspondence is becoming ever wider.   AB02530

so that this bright lamp of God's Cause may grow brighter day by day and more radiant moment by moment until the world of being is illumined   AB01591

Day by day this light grows brighter and the darkness of ignorance is scattered. At last the light of truth will fully illumine both East and West.  AB09376

Through the favor and providence of the Beauty of trust that Spiritual Gathering will develop day by day and will be reinforced by the strength of God.  AB05650

However, the foundation laid by Baha'u'llah is spreading day by day... You have now sown a seed - it will certainly sprout. Its sprouting is with God.   AB00563

The Cause of God, day by day, grew in elevation, and its power became manifest from every direction. In none of the prisons was such ascendancy witnessed   BH03090

In these days the Cause of God, the world over, is fast growing in power and, day by day, is spreading further and further to the utmost bounds of the earth.  AB02936

that those friends and handmaidens of the Merciful may become brighter day by day and progress ever more...and in the coming year achieve the utmost progress   AB03320


The nations of the world strive to increase their armaments to such an extent that they become like serpents, rushing at one another, and much blood is shed. The wise ones among the nations gather to investigate the cause, and become aware that the cause of bloodshed is prejudices, the most severe of which is religious prejudice. They strive to eliminate religion so that prejudice, which is a branch of religion, might also disappear. Then they realize that humanity cannot live without religion. Therefore, they gather and study the teachings of existing religions to see which religion conforms to the requirements of the time. Then the Cause of God becomes universal.  BHU0024


The Baha'i Faith is penetrating and surging forth across America   ABU1298

The Cause of God will advance amongst such a good-hearted people.   ABU2570

America surpassed all Europe in this Cause while Europe is nearer.  ABU1321

inform her that the earth is now ready and prepared for the Message   AB05403

Soon shalt thou behold the Cause resplendent throughout all regions.   BH04694

The Cause of God is mighty - assuredly it shall encompass the world.   BH02856

We have sown a seed. Many souls have been attracted and transformed.   ABU3010

wherein the name of the Kingdom is celebrated and spread in all regions  AB09638

The Star of God's Cause is shining with brilliant rays in all horizons   AB06017

The Call of God is already raised throughout all concourses of the earth  AB10185

Whatever has occurred has had the effect of spreading the Cause of God.   ABU1303

Ere long in that city a great multitude shall enter in the Kingdom of God  AB05140

Christ's Teachings were established largely through the firmness of Paul.  ABU2905

soon they will produce blossoms and leaves and will yield delicious fruit   AB04295

Thus Los Angeles will become a city of God, a center of the kingdom of God.  ABU1907

Praise be to God, the divine fragrances are spreading to the utmost degree.  AB08107

Now is the time for teaching and getting an army. Later it can be organized.  ABU1104

Praise be to God, the Cause of God is advancing and spreading in all regions.  AB05097

soon both East and West will be perfumed with the fragrances of the Covenant   AB02071

that the Cause of his Holiness BAHA'O'LLAH must ultimately encircle the globe  ABU0817

This indicates that the Cause will before long yield results in that country.  AB01051

Praise be to God, the East is ablaze and the West is in a state of attraction.  AB07893

Know thou that the doors of the Kingdom are being opened to both East and West.  AB09015

We shall host nations and tribes at this table, which is the life of the world.  AB09058

Great joy was produced on account of the progress of the Cause of God in Leipzig.  AB12395

Every drop of blood shed in the Cause of God will raise up one hundred believers.   ABU3369

The day is approaching when it will have cast a tremendous tumult in men's hearts.  AB11464

From every land a cry is raised, and from every clime a life-giving breeze wafteth.   AB06650

Iran and its surroundings are, praise be to God, in the utmost state of enthusiasm.   AB03282

"My army shall win the eternal victories. These shall be put to rout and defeated."   ABU2890

You had written that the Cause is progressing in America. I hope that this may be so   AB07234

Consider thou how vast is the arena of the Kingdom--it hath environed the whole world.  AB03197

people are continuously entering beneath the shadow of God's Cause in all directions   AB01257

This Blessed Cause has such great power that shall ere long vanquish all oppositions.  ABU3453

The praise you offered regarding the progress of the friends in Rasht brought much joy   AB06261

Therefore, know that this Cause is progressive. No obstacles in the world can hinder it.  AB01462

Europe is truly in a state of excitement and commotion now - let us see what will unfold.  AB07745

for praise be to God, the friends are surging like ocean waves in all parts of the world.  AB01436

O Baha'u'llah, Thy gentle Voice of Truth will some day penetrate as far as the churches.   ABU3038

The Word of God is spreading, and the Best of Villages has become the Mother of Villages   AB12146

The yellow race in future will develop. It will develop much. New China has just awakened.  ABU1235

Consider that today in all parts of the world the loved ones of God have raised the banner.  AB01679

"Baha'u'llah rose as a light in Persia and now that light is going out to the whole world."   ABU2958

When this Cause reaches full growth and like a fruit tree bears the good fruits of character   ABU1251

I hope from His grace that He will soon raise up these souls so that His Cause may be exalted.  AB05805

The East is illumined, the West is perfumed. The Word of God is the candle of every gathering.   AB03243

How solid the foundation Thou hast finally laid, and how glorious the banner Thou didst hoist!   ABU3282

I asked Abdul-Baha what could be done to increase our numbers and make the work more effective.  ABU3218

Whenever these signs appear, then it will become manifest that the Tablets have had their effect  AB05645

The news you wrote about the spread of the Cause since the beginning of winter was joy-bringing.  AB05421

Praise be to God, the London assembly is radiant and the believers are exerting the utmost effort  AB01509

growth of the Cause "the coastal regions of the Sea of Oman are the beginning point of victories"   AB11694

for two years in the city of Detroit, the fragrance of the garden of Baha'u'llah has been diffused   AB04352

My hope is that the call will be raised in that region and the Cause of God will spread tremendously  AB00828

The Cause of Baha'u'llah, praise be to God, is spreading to the utmost degree in both East and West.   AB01789

When Professor Browne came, it was the days of comfort for the friends. They were days of happiness.   ABU1970

Therefore the hour is approaching when the Cause of God will have gained ascendancy in their country.   ABU3154

His Cause has now reached America and many in the Western world are being attracted to His Teachings.   ABU2864

The new friends, praise be to God, are successful and God willing they will become keys to good things.  BH02817

The Call of the Kingdom proclaimed in that country will surely produce tremendous results in the future  AB12459

This number of fifty will later reach fifty thousand. As the friends increase, this circle will expand.  AB05929

Account of how "most of the late one's followers entered into the Divine Law" after learning the truth   AB04167

so that the rays of the Sun of Truth may ere long illumine all the continents and islands of the globe   ABU3268

Chicago, in comparison with the cities of America, was in advance and numerically contained more Bahais   AB05482

You wrote from Barfurush that praise be to God, in these days there has been some stirring and movement.  AB12188


From all parts of the world host after host enter under its Radiance. Erelong it will become world-wide.  ABU1724

I swear by the Most Great Book that the Cause of God will encompass and take possession of all the earth.  BH05625

Though it may seem unimportant to people now, in the future it will become the song of centuries and ages  AB03188

they are the essence of the Cause and through them the Cause of God has become firmly established in Iran  ABU2736

"Know certainly that soon he will find a wonderful help and that this Cause will spread in those regions."  AB02196

Jinab-i-Yusuf Khan has arrived and today set out for America. God willing, may he be confirmed and assisted.  AB09274

"The Cause will spread very much in this country. Blessed souls shall arise to serve the Baha'i revelation."  ABU2357

I expect to hear good news from you that thy heart is so illumined that thou hast guided many souls in Paris.  ABU1665

Recognition will not occur in a specific country where the Baha'ís should gather. In every land, the friends will progress and the Cause of God will be recognized without warfare or conflict. Christianity in France was emancipated in this manner.  ABU3657

Although these stations are concealed today, yet they shall assuredly become manifest and evident in the earth  BH03429

He established the power of the Covenant for the propagation of God's Cause and the triumph of the Word of God  ABU2561

Before long the results of this mighty undertaking will be uncovered and laid bare before the eyes of all men.  AB10093

On one hand it brought the utmost joy, for it indicated that the exaltation of the Cause surpasses imagination.   AB02908

This wonderful Cause has not [been] properly introduced into China. It is very necessary that it should be done.  ABU2762

"The Blessed Tree has taken firm root in the earth and the signs of its greatness have encompassed all regions."  ABU2133

Soon shall all servants behold the standards of His glory and might raised upon the most lofty and noble banners.   BH04501

Soon thou shalt see that the divine standard is raised in all regions of the earth and the banner of truth waves.   AB01592

Soon you will observe that the world has been set in motion and the universe is dancing and rejoicing in delight.   AB01821

This Cause first appeared in Iran, then spread to other Islamic countries and propagated among Jews and Christians  ABU2823

In these days great capacity is witnessed in America and the population is ready to listen to the Divine Teachings.  AB04612

So why are the friends in the region of ?abaristan few in number, and the register of their blessed names limited?   AB02333

The regions of Rangoon and nearby localities have developed a new capacity and intensive promotion is now possible.   AB04981

From the blessings of those adversities, those banishments, now the banner of the Divine Faith is hoisted most high!  ABU2575

In any event, the Cause of God is ascending in might and power, while its opponents are afflicted with obvious loss.  AB05281

A day will come when from all this plain, these villages, these valleys the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" will be raised.  ABU0309

the call of the Kingdom of God first reached Chicago and some souls in that city were attracted to the divine Kingdom  AB01856

As soon as I arrived here I felt very happy indeed. This is a clear indication that this city shall become illumined.  ABU2969

However, very good news is arriving from India. I hope that this journey of thine to India will prove highly fruitful.  AB09917

the Cause of God will become renowned, and the fame of the appearance of the Sun of Truth will spread in those regions  AB03510

It appears that through the bounties of the Abha Kingdom, the Cause of God will attain great strength in this region.   AB01046

Praise be to God, divine glad tidings have set the horizons in motion and heavenly signs have awakened East and West.   AB00842

In the beginning of every Revelation adversities have prevailed, which later on have been turned into great prosperity.  BH11540

The darkness of negligence shall not darken the light of truth, especially after it has set Africa and America ablaze.   AB04689

How wonderful is this bounty in this Day wherein the mention of Truth hath spread and circulated throughout all regions!  AB07734

in future centuries your journal will surpass all the journals of the world, for you have announced the Kingdom of Abha   AB06722

"Briefly, Germany will become illumined. Because the people are firm in religion, not submerged in the world of nature."  AB04010

The convention established in Bombay will become the cause of attraction of illumined hearts and will have great effects   AB05087

Through the boundless favors of the Lord, I hope this assembly will expand, extend, and remain permanent and established.  AB01713

When you arise to teach the Cause of God it will soon be firmly established and will spread because this city has capacity  ABU1990

However, the Cause of the Blessed Perfection is extraordinary, and the Places wherein he has lived will be fully preserved.  ABU2752

my hope is that every ear may become a harvest and every grain may become the bounty and blessing of the Lord of Bestowals   AB02432

This gift of supreme guidance does not show its full effects now, but in future centuries it will illuminate East and West   AB02642

But I place my hope in divine favors that for you dispersion will end in unity and disorder will be transformed into order.  AB01795

The Blessings of the Kingdom have touched America, but the Americans must endeavor to prove themselves recipients thereof.   ABU0957

So be confident that the Cause will soon soar and with one wave cast these twigs and straws into the valley of destruction.   AB00507

I did everything within my power to promote the Cause of God...so that the divine Cause might advance throughout the world.   ABU2856


Now is only the emergence of the dawn of the Sun of Truth, His blessed Person told us. Soon it will envelop the whole earth.  ABU3679

A report has been received from Aqa Mirza Ahmad Isfahani regarding the spread of the Cause of God in the territory of America  AB11795

Heilbronn hath, praised be God, become the city of the inmates of the Kingdom and the dwelling-place of the angels of heaven.  AB12468

Ere long important newspapers will engage themselves in writing articles about the Cause, considering it an honour to do so.   AB04601

Praise be to God that in Springfield the fragrance of the love of God has spread and the call of the Kingdom has been raised.  AB02933

Now that the Call of God has encompassed the world and the fame of the Blessed Beauty has stirred East and West to excitement  AB01310

Know this- that the Revelation of Baha'u'llah is the Word of God. There will not be a home which does not contain a believer.  ABU3364

"God will not consent save that His light be perfected." In two or three more years you will observe how America will become.   AB00924

"When the movement of the Supreme Pen (BAHA'O'LLAH) becomes audible, undoubtedly the buzzing of flies ceases. This is evident."  ABU2674

Above all I have to bear on my shoulder the burden of the sorrows of a rapidly increasing community such as that of the Bahais.  ABU2517

Now the fame of God's Cause and the renown of the Manifestation of Baha'u'llah has set the seven climes in motion and vibration   AB00432

so that a clear standard may be raised in those regions and a great multitude may enter beneath the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree  AB07937

Other nations from around the world come in waves to his blessed shade, accept his teachings and partake of his bounteous feast.   AB00803

This is the first house in that city upon which the splendor of the Favor of the Divine Beauty, His Holiness Baha-ollah is cast!   AB12137

Come, go to Stuttgart and behold what is transpiring there. Those two blessed souls who are with you are examples of such people.  AB08648

ere long the banners of His Cause shall be raised in most lands and that which God hath willed shall become manifest and evident.   BH04068

The dawn of the Most Great Glad-Tidings from the horizon of God's Cause shines like the resplendent moon, radiant forever and ever  AB10528

so that the divine Kingdom may rapidly spread and the glad tidings of the appearance of Baha'u'llah may quicken all those regions   AB03906

I have planted the Seeds in America. You must nurture them and care for them. If you do this, they will yield an abundant harvest.  ABU2944

After the passing of the time mentioned in the Book, suddenly shall the Cause of God be upraised and all souls shall turn unto it.   BH05695

If the Blessed Beauty were in this world and I presented Him these letters from the believers in Germany, how jubilant He would be!  ABU1543

"This Blessed Tree grows through blood... Rather the Word of God will be raised higher and the Sun of Truth will shine more brightly"  AB00416

Irreligion will prevail and at the end the whole civilization of the world will be destroyed. Then again religion will be established.  ABU1004

Good news from that land and region arrives continuously. I hope that that clime will witness a mighty surge and become a mighty pillar  AB08926

The Cause of God is rising in all regions. Now Aqa Mirza Asadu'llah has arrived and according to his account it is likewise in America.  AB01164

Praise be to God, the divine friends and maidservants of the Merciful are like waves, and from every direction they come in multitudes   AB00753

From every quarter rises the cry of "O Glory of the All-Glorious!" and from every region ascends the call of "O Thou the Most Exalted!"  AB00697

If this Cause had appeared in America, today there would not be a single soul in that country who was not either a Baha'i or a friend.   ABU3520

Mrs. Knobloch went from America to Germany - surely you have heard what excitement she created in Germany and how many souls were guided  AB05509

In the regions of India, in places where the Call of Truth has not spread, you must raise such a banner that its flag will wave forever.  AB03856

It is certain that the Word of God will become a manifest light illumining the horizons and enlightening the world and all its peoples.   AB03964

In these days the Caucasus has gained utmost importance. The attention of the friends, especially the teachers, must be directed there.   AB01466

Soon its radiance will increase further, its call will grow louder, its effulgence will become brighter and its fame will spread wider.   AB01511

Observe how all foundations have crumbled, yet the foundation of Christ's apostles has grown stronger and loftier with each passing day.  AB04346

After the passing of the duration mentioned in the Book, suddenly shall the Cause of God be raised up and all souls shall turn toward it.  BH01602

In the city of 'Ishqabad, the Cause of God is well renowned, resplendent and manifest, and is subject to no veil or concealment whatever.  AB01442

Now in Europe it is the beginning of dawn. Soon the divine lights will become intense. At that time you will observe what news there is.   ABU2828

Wonder upon wonder and regret upon regret that the West has become alert while some in the East are still unaware of this melody and song.  AB10909

Ere long they shall witness how this imprisonment and captivity hath become the cause of the exaltation of God's Cause and its ascendancy.   BH03800

Soon shall the lights of the Cause encompass the world, though now faces are turned towards infidelity. Yet for this a time hath been fixed.  BH02412

Soon will ye see the spread of this enterprise in the world, and its resounding voice shall go through the ears of the people in all parts.   AB06537

From America, I await the appearance of a few people. Soon they will appear. And then you will behold unprecedented victories for the Cause.   ABU1265

The divine Lote-Tree is fruit-bearing, and the blessed Tree is verdant and yielding fruit. Through grace it yields its fruit in every season.  AB02967

Yesterday I had a letter from Philadelphia stating that they have increased the number of Baha'is and have assembled and published My talks.   ABU2319

When we were exiled from Teheran to Bagdad we could not find one single Baha'i but now see how many Baha'is are in each one of these cities.   ABU1648

in which time the signs of exaltation, transcendence, elevation and ascendancy of the Word of God shall be made manifest in both East and West  AB10386

such that no city among the cities of all peoples remaineth wherein the traces of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, have not been diffused   BH08303

from its contents it became known that the rays of the Sun of Reality have shone upon that land and the prayer of 'Abdu'l-Baha has been answered  AB12425

It took three hundred years for the Cause of Christ to be spread but in the first century the Cause of Baha'u'llah will be promoted everywhere.   ABU2595

Soon shall ye see the friends attaining their longed-for destination and pitching their tents, while we are but in the first day of our journey.  AB02719

in those cities the light of truth has shone forth and souls have torn asunder the veils of superstitions and traditions and attained their goal   AB05807

But rest assured that ere long thousands, each of the same stature as Count Tolstoy, will arise and gather under the banner of the Cause of God.   AB03135

If believers of God had lived in accord with the good pleasure of the Blessed Perfection, all the people of the world would have been Bahais now   ABU1738

The East hath verily been illumined with the light of the Kingdom. Ere long will this same light shed a still greater illumination upon the West.  AB11311

Praise be to God that the luminosity of the Blessed Cause hath illumined the horizons and the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" is raised from all regions  AB12687

With this you can make the tree of the Cause of God become verdant. Through this the Name of the Kingdom of God will be spread all over the world.   ABU2337

Say: By God! Through this journey the Cause of God hath been exalted. Soon shalt thou find those who turned away beneath the feet of the believers.   BH01866

The Abha Beauty has spread His Cause throughout the horizons and has made the fame of 'Abdu'l-Baha's servitude to His Holy Threshold world-embracing  AB04036

Now it is our hope that although this Truth was revealed in this part of the world, it will be spread and promulgated throughout America and Europe.  ABU1510

We therefore see that such contrary and far apart nations as America and Persia are completely joined together and united by this great cause of God.  ABU1858

It is wonderful! Consider where this Cause was at first and where it is now! And where is Shiraz, Teheran, Bagdad, Roumelia, Constantinople and Acca!  ABU1526

The people of God are the recipients of His aid and assistance, and will, in the end, shed the radiance of the Divine splendors upon the whole world.  AB12811

India received rays from the beginning of the dawning of the Sun of Truth, and mention of the friends in India was always made in the Most Holy Court   AB06573

In this divine garden, thousands of fresh and verdant trees have raised their tops to the Supreme Apex and on every tree there are thousands of nests   AB07130

The letter which thou didst write to Jinab-i-Asad brought great joy, for it conveyed glad tidings of the firmness of the Cause of God in those regions.  AB09293

Joyful news is now being received from the friends in Germany, indicating that, by the grace of God, the friends there are extremely firm and steadfast  AB04766

all the happenings of the world ultimately result in service to the Cause of God. Be confident. Do not look to the beginnings, but behold the results.   AB03378

But today through the assistance of the Abha Beauty the Cause of God is proclaimed with the utmost openness in the churches and assemblies of the West.  ABU2728

See how the aid and assistance of the Abha Beauty have reached us constantly and invariably the lights of victory have shone from the supreme horizon.   ABU2726

The joyful news of the rapid progress of the Cause of God in India has caused great joy and gladness. Soon shall ye hear this melody from all horizons.  AB08392

Although the fire of the love of God has not yet been kindled in that city, it will soon burst into flame and blessed souls will enter the divine Kingdom  AB04457

Today all the world's newspapers are occupied with mention of this Cause - there is no newspaper that has not mentioned and does not mention this Cause.   AB01240

Rather, its dawning was in the nearest horizon, and now it is in the most exalted horizon - its light has become more brilliant and its rays more radiant   AB05738

The call of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha can be heard far and wide. It is my hope that this soul-stirring melody of the Abha Kingdom may also be raised high in Paris   AB02560

'Abdu'l-Baha is always anticipating that the Call of Truth will set that land in motion and the life-giving breeze of God will cause those trees to quiver  AB11767

The Cause of God hath encompassed the world. Soon shall the standard of divine sanctification be raised through you and in your name throughout the world.   BH07999

As people in Southern California are religious, the Cause shall advance there, and many people will become attracted and the word of God will be promoted.   ABU2088

Today the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name is granting victory with unseen hosts from the Kingdom of Mystery to the servants of His sacred threshold.   AB02830

The Day-Star of the Cause of God is ablaze in the horizon of sanctity, and the morning of the Word of God is breaking upon the dawning place of divine unity.  AB04889

Shiraz, praise be to God, has raised its voice, shown movement and found blessing. The Cause of God has spread and the loved ones of God have gained victory   AB05615

Praise be to God that the Western countries have been illumined by the lights of the East. The cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" is raised from mountain and desert.   AB05821

We are waiting to see that perchance, God willing, a new breeze will waft over India, a new spirituality may be obtained and a new consciousness be realized   ABU2044

For some time that region has been deprived of peace and tranquility. Now praise be to God it has found stability and calm, therefore it has great potential.  AB05559

The letter which thou didst write to his honor Asad brought great joy, for it conveyed glad tidings of the establishment of the Cause of God in those regions.  AB09293

that just as Washington is the political center of the American Republic, she may become the dawning-place of merciful susceptibilities and celestial feelings  ABU1722

Verily I find that the divine fragrances have perfumed the region of Khurasan. The lights of guidance will spread therein, the Most Great Word will be exalted  AB11666

Ere long, thou shalt see with thine own eyes, how the Celestial Potency of His Grace, even as the spirit of Life, shall pulsate through the body of all mankind  AB09756

The news of Shiraz being stirred by the spiritual spring breeze, the arrangement of gatherings, and people entering the Faith of God in troops brought much joy  AB02212

A story was related of a Baha'i who was questioned by a great enemy of this Cause: 'Why did you accept this Cause?' He answered: 'because of your opposition.'   ABU2780

Ere long this love and affection will display a wonderful effect in the world, the call of the Kingdom of God will penetrate to the uttermost parts of the earth  AB03318

Ere long ye shall behold the sanctified banner of God's loved ones waving above the horizon of the world, and their radiance illuminating the east and the west.  AB04650

All the communities of the world will finally become familiar with this great and most holy Cause and all of them will enter under the shade of the Word of God.  AB02536

Bombay is a good location and center, with the capacity for the progress of the Cause of God, but this depends on the unity and agreement of the divine friends.  AB01621

You wrote that Sarvistan has become a Baha'i rose garden - this news brought spirit and fragrance. There is firm hope that day by day this bounty will increase.  AB01192

Today the banner of sanctification waves in East and West, and the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" is raised in all climes, even in the Hawaiian Islands.  AB00550

Praise be to God that singly and alone, without any helper or assistant, we attacked the drilled army of darkness and we have come out of the field victorious!   ABU2039

Consider a little! And hear how the trumpet call "Ya Baha el Abha" is being raised among the Turks, Persians, Australians, in Asia, Africa, Europe, America etc.  ABU0511

Were the world to be observed free, sanctified and purified from satanic whisperings, assuredly the Cause of God would encompass the East and West of the earth.   BH01368

Rest ye assured that ere long the Banner of Guidance shall over all the regions and the Harmony of the Baha'is shall fill the Kingdoms of the East and the West.   AB03300

Now, praise be unto God, that hundreds of thousands of souls have assembled under the standard of the Covenant through the assistance of the Blessed Perfection.   AB01455

from every quarter I receive the glad-tidings of the growing ascendancy of the Cause of God, and can witness evidences of the increasing influence of its spread.   AB06499

Soon this mighty Cause will illumine the world and transform the furnace of conflict, contention and war into a garden of love, harmony, peace and reconciliation   AB01590

today, praise be to God, the sun of the universal religion has risen and multitudes from all parts of the world are entering it. Soon it will encompass the world   AB01816

Praise be to God that the standard of victory is unfurled over that region and the fame of the Covenant has reached the ear of every wise and intelligent person.   AB02016

Furthermore, praise be to God, day by day the Cause of God is ascending and the hand of transgression and hostility of the oppressors is gradually being cut off.   AB01234

Many blessed and holy souls have appeared in this Cause who have been the essence of essences. That is why the Cause is so wonderfully spread all over the world.   ABU1643

I - who have caused the Cause of the Blessed Perfection to reach the East and West until numerous devoted and eloquent souls like Mr. Harris have appeared therein  ABU0719

Now in all regions the fragrances of the Cause are diffusing, and assuredly the Helper and Supporter will become manifest. This is irrevocable and will not change.  BH03708

In these days a wonderful receptivity hath been produced in Iran and throughout the world. The time must be regarded as precious, and opportunity must not be lost.  AB09671

Now in all parts of the world, the banner of the Most Great Name is raised high, and in all countries and nations the fame of the Ancient Beauty is spread abroad.   AB05104

Praise be to God, that the Standard of Victory is unfurled over that region, and the fame of The Covenant has reached the ear of every wise and intelligent person.  AB03886

We are watching with great interest the progress of this Movement. For it seems to us it is advancing with great rapidity without the usual propaganda organization  ABU2627

Although the Baha'is will make no war in Persia or any other country, the flag of Baha'u'llah will overcome every other flag, and all rulers will do homage to it.   ABU3032

for the Cause of God shall gain such strength that all will run after the physician like patients, and hasten like the wounded in search of the supreme healing balm  AB12560

Say: O heedless ones! Soon you will witness the surge and roar of the divine sea and will hear with attentive ears the effects of the call of the invisible Herald.   AB01186

I gave you the glad tiding that this indifference will be changed into deep interest and in the very center of Paris the Standard of Baha'u'llah shall be upraised.   ABU2927

"In the immediate future much interest will be aroused in France about the Cause. They will see that there are so many Baha'is in other parts and they will follow."  ABU2261

At present in the city of London the call of the Cause of God is so loud that the people are astonished, and the fragrances of God are spreading to the utmost degree  AB03685

"Briefly, these persecutions caused a further spread of the Cause of Christ, in that they caused them to be removed into a new place and preach to a new multitude."   ABU2367

And now it is observed that this matter has become very necessary, for the pillars of the world are in motion and in foreign lands widespread diffusion hath occurred.  BH03747

the fame of God's Cause spreading throughout all areas, the sovereign power of divine knowledge conquering hearts and souls, the signs of truth encompassing creation   AB03833

The Faith of God has not penetrated Paris and the fire of the love of God has not enkindled her people to the depth it should. Of certainty, there is wisdom in this.   ABU2232

The Lord of Hosts has launched His attack with this army and is engaged in conquest in both East and West. The manifestations of this power are the loved ones of God.  AB04504

Therefore the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah already believed in the leadership of the Germans, because there the most hopeful ground for the Baha'i Teachings exists.   ABU1894

The blessed utterance concerned the greatness of the Cause of God, that when it surges forth like a wave, it will submerge all paths and itself rise to great heights.   ABU0771

Praise be to God, the cultivation and field have been watered, and the Word has been spread and penetrated, and the holy fragrances have perfumed the East and the West.  AB08390

Praise be to God, in all regions of the world the divine call is a heavenly melody and the summons of the Ancient Beauty is the song of the nightingale of inner meanings   AB04717

but due to the great distance, the fragrant musk-perfume has not yet reached their nostrils. They are unaware of the rising of the Sun of Truth from the horizon of Iran.   AB03492

Praise be to God, the road to Ishqabad has opened somewhat, and the friends in Turkestan are in the utmost joy and gladness, occupied with diffusing the divine fragrances  AB03131

China, China, China, China-ward the Cause of Baha'o'llah must march! Where is that holy, sanctified Bahai to become the teacher of China! China has most great capability.  ABU1257

How many souls who in the previous year were veiled and turned away, but in this year their petitions have reached the Most Holy Court and they have returned to the Truth   BH04371

divine confirmations are arriving continuously and the Cause of God has achieved tremendous spread in Iran. In Tehran, all will soon be attracted to the divine fragrances.  AB08732

"In Japan the divine proclamation will be heard as a formidable explosion, so that those who are ready will become uplifted and illumined by the Light of the Sun of Truth."  AB06530

Numerous souls entered beneath the shade of the Divine Word and some, intoxicated from the cup of grace, hastened to the altar of sacrifice and gave their hearts and souls.  AB01452

Should you compare the beginning of the Cause with it today, you would see what a quick influence the Word of God has and how the Cause of God has encompassed the horizons.  ABU0238

These foolish people wish, in their depraved state, to oppose a Cause that has stirred both East and West and directed the attention of humanity to the kingdom of sanctity.  ABU3736

Their purpose was to obliterate the Cause of Baha'u'llah; yet, they performed the greatest service to His Faith by surrendering the Holy Land to Him, without recognizing it.  ABU1689

that region has become perfumed with the fragrance of the Abha Paradise, the holy breaths have spread abroad and the hearts of the righteous are filled with joy and gladness   AB07123

the Cause of God will soon achieve a wondrous spread. The fame of the Manifestation of the Sinai will encompass the world, and the dark earth will become bright and illumined  AB07430

The purpose is that the time has come for Kerman to stir and move, so that that region may become a paradise of delight and that country may be perfumed with holy fragrances   AB00811

Now, praise be to God, through the aid and favor of the Blessed Beauty and His grace and bounty, hundreds of thousands of souls are gathered under the banner of the Covenant.   AB00631

We have crossed the seas, passed through wonderful centers of populations in the West, traversed over mountains, deserts, deep valleys, impassable gorges, towns and villages.   ABU3194

However, this is not because freedom helps with the diffusion and propagation of our Cause, as it is the opposite - namely, our Cause grows better in a repressive environment.  ABU3271

Eloquent and knowledgeable souls must be found who will strive to seek out these souls and, wherever they are found, lead them to the Divine Law. many souls are secretly ready  AB05640

"Soon the very people who reproach and censure thee will, they and their families and descendants and kindred, glory and take pride in thy existence and hold their heads high."  AB01075

While the Iranians were occupied with themselves and were destroying Iran, we were engaged in spiritual conquests and promotion of eternal glory in the vast regions of America.  ABU2068

Today the influence of the Cause of God is felt in all parts of the world and there are thousands and tens of thousands believers who refer their affairs to me for adjustment.   ABU0418

For all the corruptors of Iran - whether Yahyais, Covenant-breakers, or Sufis - have all turned their attention to America and will come to create a breach in the Cause of God.   AB03122

"The Lord be praised, the loved ones of God are found in every land, and are, one and all, neath the shadow of the Tree of Life and under the protection of His good providence."   AB06644

But after this war the advocates of universal peace will increase day by day and the peace party will surge forth and ultimately triumph over all parties. This matter is certain.  AB00609

The hosts of the Kingdom of Abha are at all time gaining fresh victories. See how many new souls are accepting the Truth and are becoming mindful of the Mysteries of the Kingdom.  ABU2472

In no age has such greatness of the Cause of God been manifested at its beginning. Rather, the opposite - they would blame, and instead of submission such souls would show pride   ABU1260

The day is approaching, when ye shall witness how, through the splendor of the Faith of Baha'u'llah, the West will have replaced the East, radiating the light of Divine Guidance.  AB11552

The standard of the Faith has been raised in America. A number in that country have embraced the Faith and will come here soon for pilgrimage to the Sacred Shrine of Baha'u'llah.  ABU3690

Soon thou shalt witness that the teachings of God have spread throughout those regions through the breathings of the Holy Spirit and the fragrances from the gardens of the Kingdom   AB06431

A great commotion was set up in the souls. A new spirit was breathed into people. In universities, churches and gatherings people were stirred and the blessed Cause was proclaimed.  ABU0203

This Convention will gain tremendous importance in the future. It will reach such a degree that all conventions of the world will become humble and submissive before this Convention  AB06615

While the Cause is spreading with the swiftness of lightning, and its great light is blessing nations, its enemies attempt to resist its strength and prevent its beneficent effects.  ABU0997

All this diffusion of the Fragrances of the Cause of God throughout the Orient and the Occident is mainly due to these successive exiles and imprisonments of the Blessed Perfection!  ABU0962

The Cause of God is nigh unto yielding results, and on that day shall the believers rejoice shall be fulfilled. Rest thou assured that in both East and West it is in intense growth.  AB10379

East and West are in tumult and ferment, and South and North are filled with passion and zeal. The contingent world is advancing and the universe is in eternal growth and development.  AB03707

In any case, from this journey in every country a receptivity to hearing the Word was achieved. Even in the vast eastern lands, more than before the divine call has been raised high.   AB01077

In America you have only received a taste of the spiritual food which is to come to you. Some will arise to serve the Cause of God in your land who will sacrifice themselves entirely.  ABU1867

In Washington we always had audiences of one to two thousand in large meetings. Day and night I had no rest. Many came to the Faith. Even those who are not believers drew much closer.  ABU1835

We hope through the favors of Baha'u'llah that the pure seed will sprout and through the bounty of the cloud of guidance these plains and mountains will become verdant and flourishing.  AB09035

Soon thou shalt witness that: There is no commotion in the city save from the curl of the Friend's tresses, There is no tumult in all horizons save from the arch of the Beloved's brow.  AB09419

"A day will come when they will glorify in thy name, saying: 'She is the one who in the beginning of the spreading of the Cause of God in America became attracted by the Holy Spirit.'"  AB07478

Praise be to God that the fame of the Ancient Beauty's greatness has spread to every clime and the call of the Cause of God has become the dawning-place of illumination in all horizons  AB01132

Mr. Remey has gone to India and has created a great stir. In truth, India has become very receptive these days. Mr. Remey's letter is enclosed - observe how receptive India has become.   AB04077

So intensely hath the light of Baha'u'llah shone upon the American continent that in each city a company of believers is to be found, and the call of 'Ya Baha'u'l-Abha' is being raised.  AB03176

that blessed community in Germany may grow and flourish day by day, and that through your endeavours Germany may be reborn and may receive the outpourings of grace from the realms on high  AB04178

The precious soul of his honor the Chief shall exert a complete influence, and those who slumber shall awaken, and those who have lost their way shall be guided to the Ka'bih of their goal  AB12675

This is the beginning of the dawn. If the assembly remains firm and souls become attracted to the Abha Kingdom, ere long the Sun of Reality will shine with intense radiance upon that city   AB06044

Soon thou shalt witness the lightning flash of divine confirmation like the lights of dawn spread abroad, and the signs of the victory of the Beauty of the Unseen explained and celebrated.  AB02412

Soon the fragrance of the musk of divine knowledge will perfume the nostrils of the people of the world, and the spirit of life will quicken the inhabitants of all regions and directions.   AB01412

The firm and steadfast believers living in a city will become the means of its ultimate illumination and will assist the inhabitants to advance and progress in all the departments of life.  ABU1595

Iran will become a paradise and achieve complete progress, but only when the majority are believers... whichever occurs, the Cause of God will advance - nothing can stop the Cause of God.   ABU0688

A day shall come when innumerable meetings in the utmost grandeur shall be established in that city. The Cause of God shall be raised and the breath of the Holy Spirit impart eternal life.  AB08187

When the Most Great Luminary shed its splendor from the horizons of the nations...The call of the Cause of God was raised higher and the fame of the party of God encompassed East and West.   AB02007

"Only good news from the believers, the glad tidings which comes from all parts of the world of the advancement of the Cause, of the unity of the believers, this, only, improves my health."  ABU3096

Other nations from different parts of the world entering under the shade of His Sacred Tree by cohort and cohort, accepting His Teachings and receiving a share from His Table of Sustenance   ABU1795

Ere long the station of those servants and handmaidens who have turned unto Him shall become manifest to all who dwell on earth. Verily, the heedless on that Day shall be in grievous sorrow.  BH07434

Soon will the Western regions become as radiant as the horizons of the East, and the Sun of Truth shine forth with a refulgence that will cause the darkness of error to fade away and vanish.  AB02506

the lights of God's Cause have spread to the horizons... the cry of Truth has encompassed East and West in all regions... voices of glorification are raised from all directions and quarters   AB04990

The time will come when her whole family will be proud of Mrs Krug and her faith...Ere long the whole of her family will consider the faith of that lady as the crown of honor on their heads.  ABU2978

Know with certain knowledge that soon God's Cause will be exalted among the peoples of the world and that which was hidden in God's knowledge, the Quickener of nations, will be made manifest   BH04109

Although a great commotion hath been stirred in those regions and a great clamor hath been raised there, in truth it hath all served to upraise the Word of God and uplift the banner of truth.  AB04866

Therefore it is hoped that through the blessing of this mighty event the Cause of God will achieve new splendor in all regions and directions and will manifest a great dawning and effulgence   AB01131

The influence of this new Cause will not be effaced from the world. Every person of insight will soon behold its traces throughout the earth. He, verily, is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH04944

Its lustre, radiance and effulgence shall appear in future centuries when the signs of God will be spread abroad and the Word of God will encompass the hearts of all the peoples of the earth.   AB05887

This pen must correspond with all horizons, for the circle of the Cause of God has expanded beyond what can be imagined. Every day countless pages rain down from all directions like a downpour  AB04109

The Cause which is endued by the dynamic, spiritual energy will advance and develop in spite of all obstacles. That dynamic spiritual energy will force men into most extraordinary activities.   ABU1757

Praise be to God, divine confirmations are arriving continuously and the Cause of God has achieved tremendous spread in Iran. In Tehran, soon all will become attracted to the divine fragrances.  AB08732

During this long trip great capacity was created in every clime for listening to the Word of God; even in the vast countries of the Orient the fame of the Cause of God is more than ever spread.  AB00883

May the voice of the Celestial Bird of God's Cause be raised from those [?] and regions, and may the reflection of this luminous mountain cast its radiance and light upon this boundless expanse.  AB09710


Each day I await good news from those regions that praise be to God, the friends are in the utmost joy and fragrance, the Cause of God is ascending, and the divine fragrances are being diffused.   AB05385

From the news of the promotion of the religion of God, the spreading of the Word of God, and the exaltation of the Cause of God, the utmost joy and solace was brought to the heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha  AB01834

We killed them and imprisoned them severely, yet day by day they increase. Observe how much the Roman monarchs and Eastern kings opposed them, yet there is no doubt they will ultimately triumph.   ABU0774

Our hope is that Shahrud may become Bahrud (sea of glory), and that country may become perfumed with holy fragrances, and that clime may become, through manifest bounty, as the Garden of Paradise.  AB02758

Praise be to God, thou hast seen the Cause of God exalted, the fragrances of God diffused, and the Word of God renowned. The horizons of the world are stirred by the mention of the Ancient Beauty   AB03166

But soon will come a day when the melodies of the Dove of Utterance will be raised with the most wondrous tunes and the loftiness of this Cause which has been exalted in truth will become manifest.  BH01932

Now I give thee this tiding that the Word of God will be propagated in Germany with greatest might. Praise be to God that the seed which thou didst, at the beginning, scatter is growing day by day.  AB12500

In the days of the Daystar of the horizons, pure seeds were scattered in that land and region. Now, praise be to God, the beginning of growth has appeared and "it hath grown with a goodly growth."   AB01985

The cries of supplication and invocation will be raised to the Highest Kingdom therefrom and, verily, the people will enter into the Religion of God by troops, with great enthusiasm and attraction.  AB00438

Affairs and matters related to the Cause of God are turbulent like the surging ocean. The exaltation of the Word of God and diffusion of the divine fragrances in all parts of the world is obligatory  AB00809

This Cause has become worldwide. In a short space of time it has permeated throughout all the regions for it has a magnetic power which attracts all the intelligent men and women toward its center.   ABU1777

Because of his articles, so far, two individuals have embraced the Faith! Such attackers are the propagators of the Cause, and yet they do not know they can never hope to harm the Tree of the Cause.   ABU0946

The cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha reaches to the Supreme Concourse, and each day a group hastens to the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree. The light of guidance shines forth and the Sun of Truth gleams bright.  AB00823

"I pray, also, that God may in such wise cultivate and nurture that Tree that it cast its shadow over that vast and great country, distributing to all the fruits of divine knowledge and eternal life."  AB04003

You wrote about the errors and neglectfulness of the people of Switzerland: before long you will see that the Light of guidance will also take effect in that region, and finally it will be illumined.   AB11878

Know and realize the greatness of the Cause into which you have entered. Look not at the present. The day will come when there will not be a house which does not contain a believer in this Revelation.  ABU2877

"The headquarters of the Baha'is is Persia. There are many Baha'is there. They are all over the world. There is not a country in which there is no Baha'is...We have no statistics, but there are many."  ABU0940

But the Western world is at the beginning of establishment. Utmost effort must be made for its promotion and establishment, and for blessed souls to arise, firm and steadfast like the friends in Iran.   AB01424

This is the time when the East and the West have become the dawning-places of the morn of oneness. The Sun of Truth hath shed its radiance, and the birth of the Promise of all peoples hath come to pass.  AB10859

praise be to God, through the grace and favor of the Blessed Beauty, Shiraz is about to become full of commotion and the tumult of that sweet-lipped one will cause upheaval in the pillars of that region  AB10381

Now the Cause of God in Paris is growing and developing. More remarkable is that most of those who have accepted it were formerly committed naturalists, but became attracted through the divine breaths.   AB00996

This glorious Cause has appeared from Persia; so many thousand martyrs have testified with their own blood to the validity of this Revelation; hence the future of Persia is very brilliant, very radiant.  ABU2136

Be confident in God's grace and bounty that the effects of His manifest power will soon illuminate the horizons, and the might of divine proof has encompassed and will encompass the kingdom of existence   AB02248

Know, of a certainty, that whatever occurs will conduce to the exaltation of the Cause of God, the promotion of His Word, and the protection of His loved ones, and that divine wisdoms are hidden therein.  ABU3710

"The signs and traces of these sails are never-ending and eternal. The future centuries and cycles are like the sea on the surface of which these arks glide blissfully toward their spiritual destination."  ABU2729

Praise be to God! that through the outpouring of guidance, India is rapidly becoming a Rose-garden of ABHA, for many souls have lately embraced the truth and are in the utmost attraction and enkindlement.  AB05059

through the assistance and favor of the Ancient Beauty and the support of the Kingdom, the fame and renown of the Cause of God has encompassed East and West, and in all regions there are divine loved ones  AB02354

The work hath been delayed, but it is certain that this sanctified light shall, even as it hath shone with utmost brilliance in America, cast its radiance upon India through the power of the All-Merciful.  AB09420

From the beginning of the dawning of the Morn of Guidance, Adhirbayjan raised high the banner of faith and certitude in servitude to the Self-Sufficient Lord, and the Cause of God achieved great diffusion.  AB05607

If such a state becomes realized, then this Cause has given its results; but if it does not attain to this summit of renunciation, then the Cause has not produced any fruit. The fruit of this Tree is Love.  ABU2030

What bounty is this and what bestowal that has adorned the world of creation! Though it may not be apparent now, in the future it will shine so brightly that it will bestow illumination upon East and West.   AB01984

As for the Cause of God and the exaltation of the Word of God, the Blessed Tree has received complete watering and will soon grow and develop to such an extent that its reach and height will astonish minds.  AB01997

The journey of Mirza Masih to Kashan and Hamadan brought joy and delight, and I hope that favorable results will come from the movement of Aqa Mirza Taqi Khan and Aqa Mirza Nasru'llah to Shahrud and Bistam.  AB02539

Now that banner of oneness hath become so extended that its outstretched shade encompasseth the realm of being, and from all horizons the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" reacheth the supreme horizon.   AB07121

Praise be to God, the events of East and West are causing infinite joy. The fame of Baha'u'llah has encompassed East and West, and the call of the exaltation of God's Cause has reached the Concourse on High.  AB03343

by the grace and favor of the Most Glorious Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, the horizons are in motion and movement, and each day numerous souls in various regions are entering beneath the Word.  AB01869

Whereas the Christians begin by being a small band of eleven disciples following Christ and living after His teaching, now there are many Christians all over the world and Christ's influence shall never die.  ABU2379

The horizon of Persia was much darker; but as soon as the lights of the Kingdom appeared all the horizons were made luminous. Ere long the Sun of Reality shall flood all the regions with its refulgent rays.   ABU2226

You had written that, praise be to God, the holy fragrances are spreading and the handmaidens of the All-Merciful are engaged in the Great Glad-Tidings, like an overflowing cup - this is the gift of the Lord.  AB04762

In Africa, in America throughout the provinces of the Turk and Tadjik in all five continents of the world today the clarion call of "O Thou the Glory of Glories Ya Baha-al-Abha!" is reaching the high heavens   AB00323

"I am hopefully that the districts of Turkestan, Russia, will become illumined, the cry of 'Ya-Baha-el-Abha!' will reach the Supreme Zone, and the melody of 'Ya-Rabb-el-Aala!' will be carried to all horizons."  ABU1035

The Cause of God hath given new life to a decaying body, and the divine teachings have been established. I fain would hope that in this centre of materialists, the people of God will flourish and be victorious   AB04379

Say: O servants! The triumph of this Cause hath depended, and will continue to depend, upon the appearance of holy souls, upon the showing forth of goodly deeds, and the revelation of words of consummate wisdom.  BH11368

Praise be to God, the banner of the Intended One waves in East and West, and among Turk and Tajik and in Europe and Africa and India and America the cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha is raised high, despite every atheist.  AB00900

If those who claim to love God had acted in accordance with that which hath been revealed from the Most Exalted Pen, assuredly most of the peoples of the earth would have turned towards the Most Glorious Horizon.  BH09998

Although the material world holds sway and the nobles are captive to nature and in complete rigidity and torpor, yet still the Word of God penetrated and the fame of the Cause of God became renowned in that city.  AB12187

Therefore, there are many fortresses and castles of hearts which are conquered and many regions of spirits which are subdued. The lights of the Kingdom have shone forth from the horizon of the East and the West.   AB06333

My heart was gladdened and my spirit refreshed by the opening of the gates of salvation in those regions and the appearance of clear signs in those lands that are ready for divine teachings in the nearest future.  AB04153

Today the Cause of God has so penetrated that from all corners the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" is raised, and from the five continents of the world the life-giving breeze of the love of God is blowing.   AB03377

This your social gathering on the Great Feast is like unto a Mother who will in future beget many Heavenly Feasts, so that all eyes may be amazed as to what effulgence the true Sun of the East has shed on the West   AB03648

The day is approaching when thou shalt behold the light of God illuminating the whole world, from east and west, north and south, in Asia and Europe, in Africa and America. "On that day, the faithful shall rejoice."  AB05570

Praise be to God that the content of all indicated the spreading of lights and the tearing away of veils from eyes. May Tabriz become a brimming cup and may Azerbaijan cast a fire into the souls of the veiled ones.   AB02895

And when the sea of truth surges, the fish, which are the correct truths and established beliefs, will become manifest and apparent. All of these are proofs of the exaltation of the Cause of God and the Word of God.   AB06136

I shall humbly beseech the Kingdom of Baha on your behalf and seek confirmation for you, until the city of New York becomes the center of the Great Guidance and the Lights of the hearts be diffused in all directions.   AB00690

As this century is the century of light and the Cycle of the revelation of Mysteries undoubtedly these glorious aims will be fully established and the influence of this great Cause will encircle the East and the West.  ABU3018

It took three hundred years before His Cause spread, the Word of God became effective, and the call of God's Kingdom reached all parts of the earth, and His spirituality and radiance quickened and illumined the world.  ABU0090

The earth is so illumined by the light of the Sun of Truth that the melody of the Abha Kingdom has conquered the world and the reputation of the Friends of God for holiness and purity has filled the East and the West.   AB00434

Today is the second day of Naw-Ruz, and the fame of God's Cause in the gatherings of the horizons is like a night-illumining candle. The might of God's Cause has stirred the horizons. Most ears are ready for this Call.  AB12154

Glad tidings! That the Divine Spirit and the hosts of the Kingdom are attacking! Glad tidings! That the angels of Heaven are sent throughout all regions! Glad tidings! That the fragrances of the Holy Spirit are wafted!  AB04739

The Blessed Tree has grown, developed, reached high, branched forth, put forth leaves, blossomed, and cast its shade over most cities of America and some cities of Europe. It has a wondrous growth and a strange secret.  AB00191

Verily We have proclaimed the Cause through the agency of Our messengers, for verily We were powerful. Then We spread it through the hands of those who turned away. Verily the scheming of the schemers shall not harm it.  BH11866

Soon this circle will expand in Japan and attain heavenly blessing. God says in the glorious Qur'an: "Like a grain which produces seven ears, in each ear a hundred grains, and God increases this for whomever He wishes."  AB03697

Praise be to God that the dawn of hope has broken in that region and the call of truth has reached it. Every seeing eye beheld the radiance of the lights and every hearing ear heard that melody of the Supreme Concourse.  AB01043

Ere long will the people of the earth turn towards God, for the Will of God is sovereign and all-encompassing...soon shall the veils be rent asunder and eyes shall be blessed with beholding the light of the Sun of Truth.  BH05617

Praise be to God, the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" is raised in East and West, and the manifest standard waves in Europe and America and the realm of Turk and Tajik and Asia and Africa, and the power of the Kingdom strikes.  AB01414

The power of spirituality emanating from the Most Great Name may my life be a sacrifice to His loved ones will so affect the world that all the contrary powers of darkness will be obliterated in the dusk of nothingness.   AB01961

"When the seeds are hidden beneath the soil there is nothing to attract the attention of the passerby; but when these seeds grow into well-laden sheaves and when many harvests are gathered, then it will become manifest."  ABU1088

Praised be the Lord, the Cause of God hath been proclaimed and promoted throughout the East and the West in such wise that no mind had ever conceived that the sweet savors of the Lord would so rapidly perfume all regions.  AB00615

Now London has become stirred; a wondrous movement has occurred. The candle is lit and the Cause of the Blessed Beauty is witness to every gathering. Song and melody are raised; the harp and lute accompany voice and tune.  AB02889

Praise be to God, the call is raised in Africa, and in Asia the Turk and Tajik are awakened, and from America the shot of the unity of mankind reaches the ear of every poor and noble one. So imagine what will happen soon.   AB05396

Praise be to God that ye have been successful and confirmed in all endeavors, and day by day progress in all matters has become evident and manifest. The assistance and bounty of the Divine Unity have arrived successively   AB01488

"Praise be to God, the divine call is raised high in all regions and from every direction human souls are hastening to the shadow of the Tree of the All-Merciful. The melody of the Supreme Concourse has reached all climes"  AB00990

If the question of violation had not occurred, now the Blessed Tree would have borne fruit. It was near its blossoming, but this delayed it. If it had not been for violation, what would have been the condition of America!   ABU2509

As for the Blessed Tree, it has received complete watering, and after this watering it will grow and flourish to such an extent that those possessed of understanding will be amazed. Soon this will become clear and evident.  AB11204

Your letter was received and brought the news of the organization and progress of the Spiritual Assembly in the German Empire and that the friends of God with utmost yearning are seeking the knowledge of the Orb of Regions.  AB12209

The Temple that is going to be erected in the United States will be an important and magnificent one, its influence and reaction upon the Cause will be tremendous and the impetus it shall give to the Movement irresistible.   ABU2266


Today this supreme bounty hath appeared at the pole of contingent being, the call of the Blessed Cause hath conquered the world, and the cry of Glorified be my Lord, the All-Glorious! hath thrown the regions into commotion.  AB01072

Night and day he is aflame like unto a candle, and in the remembrance of God he is a luminary in every gathering...The penetration of the Word of God is coursing through the arteries and veins of the world like unto a spirit  AB10659

Now after the departure of Baha'u'llah to say the very least five hundred thousand men and women believed in him; thousands having already testified with their blood and the rest ready at every moment to give up their lives.  ABU1889

One will find it most strange when he reflects on where this Cause once was and where it has now reached. Consider the cities of Shiraz and Tehran, and then how far away from them are Baghdad and Rumelia, or Haifa and 'Akka!  ABU3716

In this age and dispensation, when the holy fragrances of the Cause of God have spread throughout the East and West, and the lights of sanctification of the Ancient Lord have illumined and brightened the kingdom of existence  AB04469

In future centuries, although the circle of the Cause of God will expand a hundredfold and the Sadratu'l-Muntaha will overshadow all horizons with its shade, yet this century has been blessed with its rising and blazing forth  AB07871

Praise be to God, from Europe and America the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" is raised, and the melody and song of glorification and sanctification of the Luminary of the horizons reaches the ears of both the lowly and the noble.   AB03678

Now observe how the situation has changed and how the influence and penetration of the Cause of God has progressed. The manifest standard is waving in all the world and the brilliant morn is dawning upon the entire universe.   AB01949

Let us all remember, we have travelled over many countries and upraised the Flag of Truth over many climes. People everywhere listened to the words with great attention and the Fragrances of the Paradise of Abha were spread.   ABU2351

The appearance of the Beloved of the horizons has created a great commotion in that city and tumult has arisen in that region. A group has become enamored with the Kingdom of Mysteries and enchanted by that musk-laden tress.   AB00313

As this is the first century and the beginning of the diffusion of the divine fragrances of the Word of God in India, the flame of the love of God and the power of the spirit of life must be intense so that it may have effect.  AB10258

The Kingdom hath advanced with its hosts, its grandeur, its armies and its standard, and hath cast its waves upon the desert of the contingent world, and pitched its tents in the valley of existence with its armies and forces.  AB09623

"Therefore it is certain that the teachings of Baha'u'llah will achieve the utmost diffusion in that land and region, and souls from Germany will become like enkindled candles and will shed brilliant lights to all directions."  AB00826

The candle of God's Cause is lit in every gathering and mention of the Ancient Beauty is clear and evident in every assembly. Today the powers of the Kingdom and the means of the world of matter are all serving the Cause of God  AB10406

"You have written that the Cause of God is progressing in that city. Through the showers of the glad-tidings of the Cause of God a small mustard seed hath become a fruitful spreading tree--its roots in the hearts of the people."  AB04003

As was witnessed and evident in the previous manifestations of the divine Essence, that after their ascension and passing, the greatness of God's Cause became manifest and the sovereignty of God's Word became known and evident.  AB02019

all horizons are illumined by the light of the dawning and hear the divine call with utmost yearning. There is no land or region without fervor and rapture, and no country that is not illumined by the lights of sanctification.   AB02054

Therefore the powers of all creation have proven impotent, and the might of the people of the world has fallen short. They cannot resist the spread of these divine fragrances, nor prevent the extension of the rays of this Dawn.  AB00992

They are utterly oblivious of the truth that through such afflictions the Cause of God is exalted, its fame is blazoned far and wide, and the martyrs themselves are enabled to attain the boundless retreats of nearness unto God.   BH08863

Through the blood which they shed the earth hath been impregnated with the wondrous revelations of Thy might and the gem-like signs of Thy glorious sovereignty. Ere-long shall she tell out her tidings, when the set time is come.  BH11364

In these days countless writings have gone to foreign lands, such that some from those parts have turned toward Iran to gain knowledge of this Most Great Cause, and having obtained what divine writings they could, have returned.   BH02109

In a short while there will be universal spread in Iran, and you must obtain from each and every one, after teaching them, a covenant of obedience, submission, faithfulness, trustworthiness and service to the eternal government.   AB01929

God willing, some of the American friends will be encouraged, as per your request, to travel to India... I hope that some free souls in that country may become prepared and the Cause of God may be established in that vast region.   AB01833


This is the first month of the mighty century and the age of the Glorious Lord. Day by day the enkindlement must become more intense and the breeze of providence must grow stronger, for this is the first stirring of the Revelation   AB04884

Despite this, praise be to God, the candle of God's Cause is bright and radiant and the melody of God's Word has conquered the world. The fame of God's greatness has stirred the East, and the holy fragrances have perfumed the West.   AB01197

The Call of God has encompassed East and West, and the fame of the Abha Beauty has stirred the world of being. The East is in ferment, the West in tumult; the North is full of glad-tidings and the South abounds with joy and delight.  AB06482

While from all horizons, even from Ethiopia and Europe, the cry of "glad tidings, glad tidings!" is raised high, from that land and region no sound or call is heard. Stillness and unconsciousness and lifelessness have encompassed it.  AB07928

Through the favors of the Incomparable Lord, it is hoped that day by day they will increase in progress, that they will adorn gatherings of sanctification and holiness, and that they will find rest in the shadow of the Blessed Beauty  AB03820

Man must irrigate the Blessed Tree which has eternal fruits and is the cause of life for all on earth. This goodly Tree, though hidden at first, will erelong envelop the whole world, and its leaves and branches will reach the heavens.  ABU2827

We have lately received wonderful news - more wonderful than you can imagine or suppose, but now is not the time to make it fully known. However I will give you a hint about it. Nations are asking for assistance from the Bahai cause.   ABU2499

I hope that the Northeastern States, especially New York, may attain to the utmost state of perfection in the Cause of God, and in the matter of teaching and the promotion of the Word of God they may precede the friends of other parts  ABU1411

The cause spread first in Persia and from there through other countries. Many of those who speak of these ideals of unity are slow to realize that they emanate from Baha'o'llah - they talk as though the ideals emanate from themselves.   ABU1199

Beyond this, praise be to God that all that was foretold in the Tablets has been realized. In all regions the banner of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha is waving, and the blessed verse they will enter the religion of God in troops has been fulfilled.  AB11480

Praise be to God that the call of the Kingdom of Abha has reached Pittsburgh, and if the divine friends show firmness and steadfastness, the lights of the Kingdom of Abha will shine forth and that region and land will become illumined.   AB07252

The Blessed Tree is growing in such a way that soon it will cast its shade upon all regions, and the truth of "necks were humbled, voices hushed, heads bowed, and faces yielded to the Ever-Living, Self-Subsisting One" will be fulfilled.   AB00664

The star of the Persians had set for a thousand years and more. Now praise be to God, it has risen with brilliant rays from the horizon of the world, casting the light of divine bounty upon all regions and setting East and West in motion.  AB07506

I trust that ere long sweet fragrances from India may reach the nostrils of these longing ones, the Flag of Guidance might be raised and the Teachings of the Blessed Perfection might be promulgated through the length and breadth of India.   ABU2667

Praise be to God, the light of the Sun of Truth has fallen upon all the East and the West and illumined the world. From all regions the cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha is raised. On earth the call of Ya Ali'u'l-A'la reaches to the ethereal sphere.   AB00415

Your letter of congratulation arrived and brought joy, for its contents indicated that the Sun of Reality hath begun Its radiation upon those regions. It is my hope that that region may become illumined and the Heavenly Dawn may break forth.  AB08278

Praise be to God, the teachings of the Blessed Beauty are being promoted in all regions. They will stir Iran to excitement. Soon you will observe that the blessed verse "and they will enter the religion of God in troops" has been fulfilled.   AB05084

You had written that the call of the Kingdom is making rapid progress in those regions. Indeed, when a flood flows and surges from the world of reality, imaginary powers cannot prevent or hinder it. Surely the movement of the flood is swift.  AB02761

Praised be God, the gates of the Kingdom are open and in the East and West, people are eagerly yearning and successively entering. The field is wide and it is time to hasten on to it and to manifest the power and strength of heart and soul.   AB00635

Then they perceived that the Cause spread more and more rapidly. The fame became more widely circulated. The Teachings of the Blessed Perfection became more pronounced. In spite of all, the Cause still spread. His Cause continued to spread.   ABU0198

If this is indeed the case, then it is an evidence of supreme power, as it is more difficult for the wealthy and noble to profess religious belief than it is for the poor to do this. To accomplish a difficult task is surely a glorious thing.  ABU3741

Praise be to God, through the grace and confirmation of the Blessed Beauty, the fragrances of the divine rose garden are spreading in these regions. Even in the center of materialism, that is, Paris, the divine teachings have been established  AB08021

From its contents it became evident that praise be to God the lights of the Kingdom are spreading, the souls are listening to the Word, the sleepy ones are becoming awakened and the blind ones are receiving the sight. This news imparted joy.   AB05977

For the loftiness of this Cause, due to the frequency of opposition from the Persian government and the intensity of the attackers, is not apparent as it should be. But soon its reality will become evident and manifest like the luminous sun.   AB00571

You had written that the Cause is at its highest ascendancy - we must offer thanks at the threshold of the Ancient Beauty for granting such assistance and favor, bestowing such victory and triumph. He fulfilled His promise with utmost power.   AB00999

A flame hath been kindled in the lands of the Turks and Tajiks... A ray hath struck the realm of America... A lamp hath been lit in the glass of Asia... A torch hath been kindled in the heart of the world, and all regions have been illumined.   AB07605

Now is but the beginning of the Dispensation. The springtime of the Faith has yet to come. We have only seen the break of the dawn. Soon the sun of the Cause will rise, and its effulgence will envelop the whole earth, bestowing life and energy.  ABU0915

Look ye not upon the present, fix your gaze upon the times to come. In the beginning, how small is the seed, yet in the end it is a mighty tree. Look ye not upon the seed, look ye upon the tree, and its blossoms, and its leaves and its fruits.   AB01720

Say, O concourse of evil-doers! Erelong the Cause of God will, in truth, be exalted, and the standards of those who join partners with God will perish, and the people shall enter the Faith of God, the Sovereign, the Supreme, the Ancient of Days.  BH04131

Praise be to God, the friends in the East and West are in the utmost joy and fragrance, and the divine breaths are spreading. In every direction the cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha is raised, and from every region the call of Ya 'Aliyyu'l-A'la is heard.   AB02533

Tell them that soon throughout all regions of the world the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" will be raised and the call of "Ya 'Aliyu'l-A'la" will reach both near and far, and the power of the Word of God will set East and West in motion and vibration.  ABU1609

Ere long you shall behold that these pure seeds have grown and how adorned the green meadow and verdant rose-garden. The hyacinths of realities and significances will appear and the plain and the country will be changed into the Paradise of Abha.  AB09738

The seed that you planted with complete sacrifice and tribulations and ordeals in the path of God has sprouted and formed abundant harvests throughout all regions. In the East it has been blessed, in the West this cultivation waves like an ocean.   AB04342

One will encounter a little difficulty in the beginning of the establishment of the Cause of God in that country, but later it will become very easy, for the inhabitants of Japan are intelligent, sagacious and have the power of rapid assimilation.  AB02701

I am not saying anything, but every week I receive great news about the progress of the Cause in Persia. Most important personages have embraced the Baha'i revelation but at this crucial time, wisdom requires that their names must be kept secret.   ABU2492

This verse, which emerged thirty years ago after the Ascension from the talent of this center of humility and supplication, has been entirely fulfilled, and it is hoped that each day the radiance of the light will increasingly illumine the horizons  AB02120

In the East, the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" is raised high, and in the West, the melody of "Ya 'Aliyyu'l-A'la" reaches the ears of every sage. The Cause of God has encompassed the world, and the call of the Abha Kingdom has set the earth in motion.   AB00253

My hope is that that region will receive the light of the brilliant Sun and those territories will become the recipient of the favors of the Forgiving Lord. May a divine rose garden be established and the flowers of the garden of the Merciful bloom.  AB00892

Opposition shall surely pass away, the dark clouds in all regions will be dispelled and the lights of the Covenant shall shine forth. At that time your value shall appear among the nations of the world and tribes and people will arise to praise you.  AB00672

Soon East and West will raise the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" and all regions will sanctify the realm of Iran, and all peoples will glorify the Persians, for the Sun of Truth shone forth from that horizon and the divine call was raised from that clime.  AB00636

Praise be unto God that not once did I rest in the bed of comfort. At the time of His ascension to the Abha Kingdom, His Holiness Christ had nearly sixty believers. However after our passing, there will be in excess of one hundred thousand believers.  ABU1543

The Cause of God has reached every ear and the divine fragrances have spread throughout all regions. The East and the West are illumined with the light of the most great guidance. The foundation of the Cause of God is firmly and securely established.   ABU1599

This Cause is within two categories. It is either true or false. If it is true, none of these hindrances will stop its forward march and if it is false, it will disappear all by itself and there will be no need to have recourse to any drastic measure.  ABU0480

Today this call is raised high in all climes, and its melody has encompassed East and West. All eyes are attentive and all ears are listening to see what the consummate divine wisdom will require and how quickly the Blessed Tree will grow and develop.   AB03321

Praise be to God that the Cause of the Merciful is advancing, the Banner of the Blessed Perfection is being raised higher and higher and day by day the echo of the melody of the Kingdom of Abha is being reverberated throughout the columns of the earth.   ABU1272

Soon the servants of the Court of the Ancient Beauty shall become the greatest refuge of the men of the world. All this is from the effects of the dawn. It is hoped that Baltimore will be made prosperous through the fragrances of the divine rose-garden.  AB11340

But be not grieved - despite all internal and external tribulations, the Cause of God is manifest with utmost glory and the light of God is radiant. Exalted be this bounty that has encompassed the horizons and this power that has encompassed the worlds.   BH03104

Praise be to God that the fame of the Cause of God hath encompassed all regions and the call of the Kingdom of Guidance hath become worldwide. From every direction the cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha is raised... Day by day the Cause of God grows more renowned.   AB06315

What power is this, and what might! What greater proof do you seek than this - that He has brought East and West into each other's embrace, and single and alone has withstood the entire world, raising up His mighty Cause from within the Most Great Prison   AB04789

The future of the Cause in Germany is very bright. Likewise Budapest and Vienna will become Baha'i Centres. One would never have believed that such holy and pure souls will be found in those cities. The Cause of God will be spread in all these countries.   ABU1943

The lights of the Kingdom have illumined the land of America and made the dark world the envy of the ancient sphere's lights. Therefore give glad tidings that, praise be to God, the lights of the Greatest Luminary have made the hidden world a radiant moon.  AB00474

Day and night they are occupied with spreading divine traces and are intimate with devotions and remembrances. They possess fragrant breath and eloquent, lucid utterance. Day by day they increase, and moment by moment they multiply and support one another.  AB07764

In India it is the beginning of establishment, therefore it has some difficulty, but once the foundation is laid, the light of guidance will shine with perfect ease and comfort and "thou shalt see men enter the religion of God in troops" will be fulfilled.   AB02407

Now the Cause of Baha'u'llah is extending to all nations of the earth. You go to Asia, and wherever you travel you will find Baha'is. You go to Africa, Europe; there you will find the Cause of Baha'u'llah. In America it is just beginning to grow and spread.  ABU0037

The greatness of the Cause will be as a flood. It will be like the waves of the Pacific Ocean. No other waves are as large. If the Cause is firm and on a good foundation, all these events which take place will be the cause of its assistance and promulgation.  ABU0075

people are entering into it in troops throughout all regions - east and west, south and north. Can there be any greater proof than this in the eyes of the fair-minded who have abandoned prejudice and recognized the gift of the Hidden One of manifold favors?   AB04160

But in a short time the enemies were frustrated and brought low so that some of them cried, 'Would to God that Baha'u'llah had not ascended because this Cause has become even greater, its fame has spread to more places, and its support has become stronger.'   ABU1680

I pray to God that thou mayest become enlisted as one of His Army and His holy angels in those regions and climes. Verily the Splendors (of the sun) have surrounded all horizons and the Morn of Guidance hath showered its Lights upon the expanse of the earth.   AB02473

Thou hast written that during these days thou hast traveled to different parts, have seen different assemblies in every city, which are beautifully organized, and are engaged in the service of the Kingdom. Ere long thou shalt behold greater things than these.  AB06144

There are many joyous events from the West, but their disclosure is not permitted these days, for as soon as the faithless hear of them, they will unhesitatingly arise to extinguish the lamp, and from intense jealousy will throw themselves into fire and water.   AB00352

The holy fragrances are diffusing in every region and the fame of the Ancient Beauty has continuous renown throughout all the world. The musk-laden breeze is wafting from all directions and the verses of spiritual conquest are being chanted in all the horizons.   AB04847

But praise be to God that the loved ones of God, day by day their edifice has grown higher, their foundation has become firmer, and they have attained happiness in both worlds, and everlasting honor has come to belong to them - and this is so even in this world.  AB04549

Erelong shall God make manifest this people upon the earth, and through them shall exalt His name, diffuse His signs, uphold His words, and proclaim His verses, in spite of those that have repudiated His truth, gainsaid His sovereignty, and cavilled at His signs.  BH00007

There are certain trees which grow and develop very quickly; other trees may take a long time before they put forth leaves and blossoms. It is evident that Paris is one of those trees which may take a long time to grow. It is my hope that it may give much fruit.   ABU2276

Your letter of January 8, 1911 was received. You had written that very good news is arriving from California and Chicago. I hope that even better news will arrive - that the Word of God has penetrated into all parts of America and set the Western world in motion.  AB07730

That light, like the breaking dawn, is spreading and will soon encompass the world. It will illumine the dark world with divine lights and bestow celestial radiance. Iran will become the center of divine inspirations and the source of endless bounties for humanity.  AB01267

"It is a mistake to think that the Glorious Cause may be better spread in peace and tranquility. There must always be change of position, movements, revolutions and calamities for the believers, that they may grow more powerful day by day and overcome all nations."  ABU1057

Now the spiritual seeds are being scattered throughout the world and the showers of the mercy of God are falling on the hearts of the people. The result will be a great and wonderful harvest and every tree and branch and scrub will bear fruit, and you will see it.   ABU0893

Praise be to God, the effulgences of the Day-Star of Revelation are manifest from every direction. The internal party and external parties all have sought and continue to seek knowledge of this Cause. Soon shall be revealed unto them that which was hidden from them.   BH04126

Each day new tidings arrive from some region that, praise be to God, the manifest standard is raised, the brilliant star is shining, the morn of truth has dawned, the darkness of error has vanished, hearts are throbbing, eyes are beholding, and spirits are rejoicing.  AB11658

Praise be to God that the divine fragrances are spreading in East and West, and the fame of God's Cause is renowned throughout the horizons. The melody of God's Word has raised such a celestial strain in the world that it has stirred the ears of the Concourse on High.  AB01622

The undying Fire which the Lord of the Kingdom hath kindled in the midst of the holy Tree is burning fiercely in the midmost heart of the world. The conflagration it will provoke will envelop the whole earth. Its blazing flames will illuminate its peoples and kindreds.  AB03550

Praise be to God that the lights of the Abha Kingdom have shone upon the East and the West, the horizons have become illumined, and the glass of hearts has been lit by the lamp of God's guidance. From every direction the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" is raised.  AB12610

"Likewise, ye must give great attention to the Republic of Panama, for in that point the Occident and the Orient find each other united through the Panama Canal, and it is also situated between the two great oceans. That place will become very important in the future."   AB00094

Praise be to God that the fragrances of the All-Merciful are spreading and the call of the Abha Kingdom is becoming renowned. The friends are increasing like a bountiful harvest, and the beloved are growing and developing like the leaves and blossoms of the blessed tree.  AB03960

Although you are few in number now in London, you will soon observe that heavenly blessings become manifest and divine confirmations arrive, for you are new saplings which will certainly grow and develop by the stream of truth until your shade spreads across the horizons   AB01118

"Master, the Baha'i Movement is spreading - its friends and enemies are agreed on this - in East and West, in the Old and the New World, but is the Movement also simultaneously developing spiritually in depth, height and breadth? Or is it becoming shallow and superficial?"   ABU0529

In the final days and during severe hardship, among the things I did was to send at once two hundred and fifty envelopes containing letters from American Baha'is to Sultan Abdul Hamid so he could see that there was absolutely no political discussion in Baha'i correspondence.  ABU1304

But now, praise be to God, circumstances have become such that the people of these regions are submissive. It was like this everywhere - in the beginning the Blessed Cause was unknown and the work was extremely difficult and arduous, but afterwards all would become submissive.  BHU0022

Then the mightiest powers of the world arose to overthrow this tabernacle, yet through heavenly might its central pole grew loftier day by day and its expanse grew ever wider, until nations both familiar and foreign, both lowly and wise, entered beneath its shade in multitudes  AB07940

In brief, in these days the musk-scented breeze is wafting across the ambergris-strewing horizons, and East and West are in motion and vibration. The melody of the Word of God has become world-conquering and the fame of the Cause of God has become the light of every gathering.  AB00549

"Since it received these bounties - that is, its name was heard from the Blessed Tongue and it was the focus of the friends' attention - it is hoped that Bombay will become a rose garden of faith and certitude in India and a center for the emanation of divine traces and lights."  AB03244

The call of the Ancient Beauty is spreading throughout all regions and the Most Great Name encompasses all directions of the horizons. The cry of "O Thou the Most Exalted!" is raised high and the song of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" ascends from every person of understanding.  AB02337

It is certain that that region will become illumined with heavenly lights and the teachings of Baha'u'llah will be spread, provided they remain protected from the doubts of the ignorant and the vain imaginings of the foolish ones who have deviated from the Covenant and Testament.  AB12240

Although in most of the states and cities of the United States, praise be to God, His fragrances are diffused, and souls unnumbered are turning their faces and advancing toward the Kingdom of God, yet in some of the states the Standard of Unity is not yet upraised as it should be  AB01552

A flame has been kindled in Kerman and the veil of eyes has been burned away. The friends have movement and vigor, and the loved ones have intimate communion...Soon it will yield mighty results and the banner of Ya Baha'u'llah will soar so high that it will wave over all horizons.  AB03822

The more they killed the Bahais, the more the light spread. The more they tried to raze the cause to its foundation, the stronger it became. The more they tried to cover up this light, the brighter it shone. The darker and dingier the prisons, the clearer became the illumination.   ABU0513

May, day by day, this garden become more green and verdant, its trees become mightier and more beautiful, its flowers become more delicate and fresh, in order that the delightful fragrance of this garden shall refresh the nostrils of the longing ones, both in the East and the West.   ABU1008

O ye friends! This is the divine confirmation and assistance of the All-Merciful that, although the ill-wishers from East to West are on the attack to extinguish the divine flame that hath been kindled, yet with each passing moment it blazeth more fiercely and riseth like a standard.  AB00775

Now must ye widen the scope of your endeavours and draw up plans to establish schools for higher education, so that the City of Love will become the Baha'i focal centre for science and the arts. Thanks to the bountiful assistance of the Blessed Beauty, means for this will be provided.   AB02250

The fame of His greatness has encompassed East and West, and the call of His sovereignty has surrounded South and North, causing commotion in the pillars of the world and trembling in the limbs of humanity. The world is in discourse about this manifestation and all peoples are in search.  AB00527


From the glad tidings and enkindlement of the friends of God and their striving and effort to exalt the Word of God, the utmost joy and delight was obtained... since the Ascension all those regions are advancing and developing day by day, and have taken the lead and surpassed other areas   AB03564

The endeavors and hardships of all the kings who were masters over the necks of nations were erased and destroyed, but the traversing of one step by those souls gained such expansiveness that it still covers distance through ages and centuries, and stopping is impossible and inconceivable.  AB01503

Therefore my hope is that in this new cycle too a flame will appear such that Azerbaijan will set distant lands ablaze and the manifest standard will wave at the zenith of that clime... But if the friends make an effort, this tree will quickly bear fruit and this seed will swiftly sprout.   AB00962

Today the world's gaze is extended to the lives of the Baha'is: when they find a believer committing an evil deed, they may imagine such to be the deed of all the Baha'is or permitted by the Founder of the Cause. Thus they may judge the whole community by the misdeeds of one of its members.  ABU2799

Do not look at the present. The greatest meeting held during the day of Christ was the Lord's supper. There were only twelve... Now consider the results of that one Supper. One end of Christ's table is in the East, the other is in the West and many nations and tongues are sitting around it!  ABU1939

In any case, in these days those regions have shown remarkable receptivity. If the handmaids of the All-Merciful achieve unity and oneness, associate with one another in love, praise each other, arise to serve, and teach the Cause, an extraordinary expansion will be achieved in a brief time.  AB07876

I hope that the Assembly will be confirmed in teaching...I pray that he may become a sign of guidance and the object of attention of the Supreme Concourse, that he may surge like the sea and roar like the whale of love, that he may become the beauty of the gathering and shine like a candle.   AB01056

The letter describes the growth of the Baha'i community in Manchester, noting "A lamp has been lit in this city that since the first dawning of the Cause in the British Isles, no such light and flame has been observed" and details the development of a vibrant community of about 30 believers.  AB12060

no news is better than the unity of the friends and the diffusion of the fragrances of the All-Merciful, for every other news is rootless and without effect except this soul-nourishing news whose results will, like the rays of the brilliant sun, cause future ages and cycles to vibrate forever  AB04117

Yet now such people openly praise the Manifestation of their day. This matter will acquire great importance in the future. For instance, the writings of Professor Cheyne will be weighed against the writings of his peers from former times, and the greatness of this Cause will then become known.  ABU3704

Erelong thou shalt behold the celestial blessing of this prayer, and the radiance of the light of God's mighty Cause. Thou shalt witness the widespread diffusion of this light to the highest heaven, and thou shalt see how from this new spirit a mighty power is released over the entire creation.  AB09102

"Verily, I say unto you that the Word of God has assuredly been explained and has become an evident sign and a strong and solid proof, and its traces shall be spread in the East and West, and to these all heads shall bow and all souls shall submit and kneel down with their faces to the ground."  AB04220

The cohorts of the Kingdom of ABHA are engaged in uninterrupted conquest. They are gaining victory after victory. God willing, Mrs. Stannard shall win many signal triumphs in India. Once the Principles of the Bahai Movement are known in India, it will spread all over that country like wildfire.  ABU1978

The fame of the Covenant has caused a great commotion throughout all regions. The Word of God has conquered the world. The cry of "Ya Baha'u'llah-u'l-Abha" is raised from every direction and the melody of "O my Lord, the Most Exalted" is heard from every quarter by every person of understanding.  AB01111

The Cause has become very great. Many souls are entering it--souls with different mentalities and degrees of understanding. Complex difficulties constantly rise before us. The administration of the Cause has become most difficult. Conflicting thought and theories attack the Cause from every side.   ABU1061

But know, the Cause of God can never be demolished or destroyed and no one is able to prevent its appearance and spreading. It may become latent or delayed for one, two, or three months, but at last it will appear in spite of all the hindrances, difficulties and impediments that come in its way.   ABU0696

They must, through the power of faith, assist the people of that land to recognize the Cause of the All-Merciful through wisdom and utterance. Verily their Lord, the Self-Subsisting, is the One with power over whatsoever He willeth. There is no God but Him, the Protector, the Mighty, the Bountiful.  BH00093

"The Lord of the Kingdom hath raised His voice with the utmost power and strength and is conquering the realms of hearts and souls with hosts of the Supreme Concourse. All holy souls in the kingdom of existence respond unto this voice and cause the call, 'Ya Baha El-ABHA!' to reach the Lofty Apex."  AB02589

As for the Cause of God, this momentous event will lead to the exaltation of the Word of God, and the diffusion of the divine fragrances. The breeze of God will blow and the light of divine bounty will dawn. The Cause will become a hundred times greater and the divine banner will be raised higher.   AB01052

The Blessed Beauty made mention of Khorasan, saying that this blessed Cause would be spread there. Everyone thought that the Blessed One's intention was Khorasan itself, but later when the grace of the Blessed Beauty was directed entirely toward 'Ishqabad, they realized that was the intended place.  ABU2989

Not by the means which you fondly imagine will an almighty Providence accomplish the triumph of His Faith. Through the poor and lowly of this land, by the blood which these shall have shed in His path, will the omnipotent Sovereign ensure the preservation and consolidate the foundation of His Cause.  BBU0008

Thou didst see the exaltation (or progress) of the Cause of God and thou didst test the general character (or qualities) of the friends; and thou didst know with perfect assurance that the Cause of BAHA'O'LLAH is the means for the quickening of the world and for the extraordinary progress of mankind  AB01956

Now in Europe is the beginning of the dawning of this Cause; later there will be an intense illumination. The fame of the Cause of God has reached to the island of Honolulu and attracted souls. Now we have arrived here and lit a flame - surely a day will come when its light will become magnificent.   ABU2158

But the Cause of Baha'u'llah was victorious and the fame of His Revelation spread worldwide. Every opponent was overthrown and humiliated because this Cause was supported by the All-Powerful and because His teachings answer the need of the age to promote human happiness and provide supreme guidance.  ABU1440

All other lights will be extinguished and your lamps lighted; all other stars will set and your stars shine in the horizon of the world; all other standards will be lowered and your flags wave in victory; all other foundations will be destroyed and your names will stand forever in the Cause of GOD.   ABU0671

Good news from that region and territory arrives continuously. I hope that that clime will manifest a great outpouring and become a mighty pillar, that the Beloved of the Word of God will appear with utmost sweetness and beauty, and that the lamp of guidance will become the ornament of the gathering.  AB08926

Ere long will ye hear the exhilarating call of the Abha Kingdom acclaimed on all horizons with great glory and then will the tumult and the tribulation in the world be stilled at last. The Call of God will rise to a glorious crescendo confounding all other noises into impotence and silence over time.  AB03382

Despite these hardships and interruption of communications, the penetration of the Word of God continued to increase throughout all the world and the diffusion of the divine fragrances grew stronger. All affairs in all lands and regions were declining except the Cause of God, which spread day by day.  AB00937

"But today each one of those Pashas is afflicted with military or civil punishments, they are all scattered to the winds but the Baha'i Cause has become triumphant and with the greatest freedom I am living in Egypt. The events of the time have clearly shown us whose Cause was the spirit of the age."   ABU0237

The divine call is raised aloud in this great city in the heart of Europe, and the banner of "Ya Baha'ul-Abha" is waving at its highest point. There is no tumult in the city except from the curl of the Beloved's tress; there is no upheaval in the horizons except from the curve of the Friend's eyebrow.   AB06876

The famous council chamber, which is built in the gorgeous style of the architecture of ancient Persia will accommodate one thousand persons, and in this room, on the evening of the fifth of September, we held a most wonderful conference of Bahais. There were present many members of the great families.  ABU0980

Sometimes in Europe and America I would joke, because I saw they were somewhat bewildered and would ask how this Cause would progress...Yet see now what importance it has attained! But at the time of His ascension, the Blessed Beauty had at least a million souls who would sacrifice their lives for Him.  ABU0550

matters have progressed far beyond this stage, for the fame and call of God's Cause has encompassed East and West, and in all five continents of the world, East and West, the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" and "Ya 'Aliyu'l-A'la" is raised, and the banner of "Truth has come and falsehood has perished" waves.   AB01626

It shall continue in elevation, exaltation, growth, promulgation and promotion until it shall reach the apex of its glory in one thousand years--as the day of this Manifestation is one thousand years. Thou shalt see its conquering power, its manifest dominion, its eternal might and its everlasting glory.  AB01355

Praise be to God, the portals of the Kingdom are wide open, and many from the East and from the West, are with eager hearts flocking unceasingly unto it. How vast is the field! Now it the time to spur on the steed of service and display to the eyes of the world your strength, your courage and confidence  AB01535

From all countries and provinces of the East and West there come requests for teachers. Among these is Yazd, where certain respected centers whose names it is not permissible to mention are insisting with the utmost persistence that teachers be sent. That province hath truly attained the utmost capacity   AB02167

When the divine melody was confined to Shiraz, the oppressors caused this mighty call to reach Isfahan and Tehran... the call of the Cause of God reached other lands in all corners of the world... the call of the Cause of God and the voice of the Word of God spread to the countries of Europe and America.   AB00454

"I have traveled and come as far as here. Perchance in these regions the cause of God will set up a flame and the name of Los Angeles will go broadcast to the Orient. They will say, 'there are friends in Los Angeles who are real Bahais and are severed from the world and attracted to the Kingdom of Abha.'"  ABU1475

Do not let your hearts be troubled by these defamatory writings! Obey the words of Baha'u'llah and answer them not. Rejoice, rather, that even these falsehoods will result in the spread of the truth. When these slanders appear inquiries are made, and those who inquire are led into a knowledge of the Faith.  ABU0181

Today all thoughts must be spent on expanding the circle of teaching and the enthusiasm and joy of the friends. In any case, it is hoped that in every letter there will be recorded glad tidings of the acceptance and attraction of new souls, for this servant has no joy and comfort for the heart except this.  AB00148

There is no land in which the fame of Thy Merciful Cause hath not been spread, and there is no region in which Thy manifest ensign hath not been hoisted! Verily, Thy voice hath reached the ears of all inhabitants of the globe, and the attracted ones have become exhilarated by its holy and divine fragrances!  AB00205

These benevolent enterprises are among the fundamental principles of the Cause of God and will soon be established to the highest degree. But now the Cause must be taught through the breaths of God alone, lest anyone imagine that this Cause has spread through the same means that other religions have spread.  AB06704

Now praise be to God, the hand of the aggressive people's dominion was cut short and the assault of the oppressors was broken. The dawn of fortune arose for that edifice and court, and the darkness of the tyrannical ones' dominion was transformed by the light of the victory and triumph of the oppressed ones.  AB01348

These times shall pass and end, this dust shall settle, these dark clouds shall disperse, and the Sun of Truth shall eventually shine at the meridian upon the regions of Turk and Tajik and Asia and Europe and America and Africa generally. Soon they will all hear the sound of this melody and anthem and salvo.   AB02140

Glad tidings! Glad tidings! The breeze of favour hath wafted. Glad tidings! Glad tidings! The showers of the clouds of divine bounty have poured down. Glad tidings! Glad tidings! His all-encompassing splendour hath been revealed. Glad tidings! Glad tidings! The Kingdom of God is filled with exultation and joy.  AB03597

From every direction rises the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" and from every country ascends the call "Holy, Sacred is the Lord of the angels and the spirit!" This call reaches the ears of all the peoples of the world, even the materialists and atheists of Europe and America are attracted and enkindled.   AB01313

'Abdu'l-Baha's hope is that through the efforts of the friends in that region there will be intense fervor, the light of the Sun of Truth will shine, souls will progress, hearts will become pure, spirits will be gladdened, and hearts will become places of dawning and mirrors reflecting the beauty of the Beloved.  AB11647

thou shalt hear the sound of this glorious bell in every near and distant region, and the call of the True One will be elevated in the monasteries of the world of mankind, just as it was elevated in the assemblies of the divine world, and the earthly people will be combined with the divine and heavenly concourse.  AB04571

"The religion of God has now been proclaimed in Germany. When the divine seed takes root in the soil, they will automatically spread and other roots appear and extend into the depth of the hearts. Now the cause of Almighty God has taken root in Germany and its roots are going to radiate like trees in full bloom."  ABU1657

Do you not see it moving all over the world; its majestic waves ever rising, ever rising, rising to the very apex of heaven, casting on the shores all the rubbish and derelicts, its waves gathering velocity and power, roaring, clamouring, battling? Do you hear its thunderous voice? Do you see its almighty power?   ABU1465

Thou seest the East illumined by the Light of Dawn, and the West rejoicing on the Day of Meeting. The Words are exalted, the fragrances diffused, and the chanting of verses bestows spirit upon the people of constancy. The voice of Truth and the call of the Lord resound like the rumbling of thunder in the heavens.  AB00243

matters have been so ordained that ere long the loved ones of God shall be honored in all lands. Praise be to God, all enemies shall be brought low. No longer will it be as before, when they were rejected by all governments. Now it hath come to pass that all seek them. God willing, the fruits thereof shall appear.  BH09911

Consider thou the days of Christ, how they were a very few, yet in a short space of time they caused a clamor and acclamation throughout all regions. These seeds which are scattered here and there are spreading strong roots in the bosom of the earth and these will develop and grow until many harvests are gathered.  AB01411

Verily the Cause is great and great, and the penetration of the Word of God in the temple (body) of all the regions is similar to the pervasion of the soul in a sound body. By the life of Baha', verily, the power of the Kingdom of God hath taken hold of the pillars of the world, and hath possessed all the nations.  AB02301

Praise be to God that now in those regions the holy fragrances are wafting and the Cause of God is day by day ascending and being exalted. Soon each of the divine friends will say to the deniers "This is he concerning whom ye used to cavil," and they in turn will respond "By God! God hath preferred thee above us."   AB01277

Praise be to God, the breaths of the Holy Spirit in Europe, especially in London, are spreading most powerfully; they are entering God's religion in troops. Now in London there is a commotion. From morning until six in the evening there is teaching, even in great churches in the presence of many notables and clergy.  AB11046

But any matter that is like a sapling in its growth, it is evident that it is progressing. In the days when we were traveling from Tehran to Baghdad, there was not a single believer along the way. But since the sapling of the Cause of God was growing, it was evident that the Cause of God would encompass East and West  ABU2567

Ye shall see all this as scattered dust, and all these thick, dark clouds which were gathered in those far regions, will disappear and the Sun of Certainty and Reality shall shine with the Most Dazzling Light; the darkness will vanish, the firm believers will be in great joy, and the nakazeen shall be in evident loss.   AB02012

The East is illumined, the West is perfumed, the South is filled with the breezes of grace, and the North is the scene of manifestation of the attributes of the Lord of Beauty. The horizons are astir and creation is in commotion. The call is raised high and God's bounty is the portion of every person of understanding.   AB04511

I am also thinking, dreaming, cogitating what will become of the future of the Cause when I am not in this world, where are the souls who shall meet and solve the perplexing, crucial problems that shall constantly arise, of what materials are they made, how will they bring together the contending, antagonistic parties?   ABU1233

Your letters arrive one after another, and all give the glad tidings of the enkindlement of the fire of the love of God, that praise be to God, the region of Khorasan is illumined with the manifest light, and all its surroundings are, through attraction and rapture and yearning and joy, like a rose garden and flower bed.  AB11404

The divine friends in Iran raise the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" under sword and blade, open their tongues in teaching, and in prison under stocks and chains engage in guiding souls. Make an effort that in America too such souls may arise, so that the luminosity of the divine mercy may illumine and brighten those horizons.   AB01472

But, by God besides Whom there is no other God, if the friends of God had acted according to what was revealed in just one of the Tablets of the Ancient Beauty, may His Most Great Mention be exalted, by now all who are on earth would have attained to the bounty of faith and the earth would have become the supreme paradise.  ABU2206

Today, due to the lack of capacity in the earth, the station of those who have turned to God and are assured is hidden and concealed from views and eyes. However, I swear by the Sun of the heaven of the All-Merciful's knowledge that a day shall appear on earth which will tell of the degrees and stations of those holy souls.  BH05648

But one of the most distinctive features of this Revelation is that important people, from the world's standpoint, have accepted this religion. Hence the enemies of the Cause cannot contemptuously cry out: Oh! Only the fishermen and tax-gathers and simple people have accepted it. This door of objection is also shut to them.   ABU2023

But praise be to God, the Baha'is in both East and West are playing their melodies with song and harp and lute in the sweetest tones, such that they have stirred great excitement in the veins and nerves of both Orient and Occident. The teachings of Baha'u'llah flow like spirit through the veins and nerves of the human world.  AB05678

Verily the East is animated and the West is vivified by the breeze of thy Lord! Verily the voices of prayer are raised in the 'Houses of Mention' throughout Persia and even in Russia, and the word of God is exalted and the verses of God are diffused! Soon you will hear the cry of 'Ya Baha El Abha' emanating from all countries  AB11211

Notwithstanding all these injuries inflicted upon them by the Shah and the government, the friends do not stop practicing their Faith openly and do not observe wisdom. You cannot blame them, because two great festivals have been joined into one, foreshadowing a brilliant future for the Cause of God in all corners of the world.  BHU0019

"Your letter was received and its contents were wonderful and beautiful for it evinced the spreading of the light of Guidance. Praise be to God! the lights of the Morn of Eternity have cast their rays upon that city, and in the future it will become enlightened, and luminous stars will dawn, gleam and sparkle from its horizon."  AB02795

Observe that the hosts of Christ were few in number, but because they were supported by the celestial army, these few achieved a mighty victory over all parties. Thus it became clear that if there was no spiritual force, these few would have been defeated, but each soul was supported by the wave-like hosts of the All-Merciful.   ABU0796

Glory be to God, at the end of every letter when the name "Mazandarani" is read, it becomes a cause of joy and gladness, for it is the original homeland of the family of the Blessed Beauty and the heart yearns for that region to become a paradise of delight and for souls to become believers and assured in the Great Announcement.   AB05332

Thank God that the Light of Truth shone in that city, the bounty of guidance was granted, the fire of the love of God was ignited and the veil of superstition was burned away. Some souls have arisen who have unsealed their eyes, unstopped their ears, witnessed the great signs and heard the eternal melody of the Supreme Concourse.  AB06411

The moment this Divine Message is carried forward by the American believers from the shores of America and is propagated through the continents of Europe, of Asia, of Africa and of Australasia, and as far as the islands of the Pacific, this community will find itself securely established upon the throne of an everlasting dominion.  AB10797

"The first is those who have accepted the teachings and occupy themselves spreading the Glad Tidings. The second is those who are good believers, but make no effort to guide others. The third is those who have heard the Message of the Kingdom but have not accepted it. The fourth is those who have not yet heard of this Revelation."  ABU2898

There is a sect in Persia of the Parsee faith, who would not read the Koran or the bible, but who have organized an Assembly under the laws of the British and Persian governments, and day before yesterday (Dec. 3rd, 1900), the Master received a letter from the chief acknowledging Baha'u'llah to be the Divine Manifestation of God.   ABU1697

I beseech God that the friends in America may become so illumined that the rays of their love may cast their light upon the lands of the Turks and Tajiks, and that such a magnetic force of attraction may be realized in those regions as to draw Abdul-Baha with all power to those countries - and this is not difficult for His bounty.  AB10922

The Eagle of God's Cause soared in the heights of grandeur and the Sun of God's Word shone from the dawning-place of might and power. This humiliation became the cause of divine confirmation and this banishment became the cause of nearness. The structure of God's Cause gained strength and the fame of God's Cause spread far and wide  AB00427

These souls who come from various regions - after Me they shall come in multitudes. Ships laden with souls shall arrive at the port. They shall even search for and seek to find a child of the friends who may have died somewhere. They shall chant prayers and raise cries of lamentation. They shall write accounts of their conditions.   ABU0463

As you observe, the more the ignorant ones oppressed, the higher the banner of faithfulness was raised, and the more they resisted, the greater became the effulgence of lights, until the enemies themselves became the cause of the spread of the Cause of God in East and West, and the fame of the Blessed Beauty became world-conquering.  AB00822

Where is Pharaoh now to behold the majesty of Moses? With the utmost eloquence, glory and resplendence, the Blessed Beauty testifies - and even His enemies testify to the truth of this saying - that soon the monarchs of earth will come, walking on foot and with the greatest reverence, carrying bouquets and flowers over their heads.   ABU1489

That land is the holy homeland of the Desired One, therefore it must become the center of spiritual inspirations, and from that blessed city the lights of the love of God must shine forth to other directions, the holy fragrances must spread, and shake the foundations of ancient traditions and eliminate the basis of outdated thoughts.  AB00934

Ere long thou shalt behold that the standards of all the religions shall be brought low and the ensign of the Kingdom of Abha shall be hoisted, waving upon the apex of the world; and each one of the firm believers in the Covenant will shine and gleam like unto a luminous moon from the horizon of the existence upon all ages and cycles.  AB12205

Through the news of the effulgence of the Kingdom of God the hearts of the divine friends became rejoiced. Praise be to God that the splendor of the Sun of Reality has cast such an illumination from the East to the West and has made possible the holding of such radiant meetings so that the sweet melody may ascend to the Kingdom of Abha!  AB03965

In the days when we were coming from Iran to Baghdad, we did not see a single believer on the way until we reached the Abode of Peace. There were two or three believers there, and when we met them they appeared very prominent in our sight. But now that there are divine believers in every city and village, they do not appear as prominent  ABU2159

At the time of His ascension, Christ had eleven believers. But now behold what tidings we receive! Praise be to God, the Call is raised in Africa, and in Asia both Turk and Tajik are awakened. From America the call for the unity of mankind reaches the ears of both the poor and the noble. Therefore, consider what shall soon come to pass.  AB05489

Praise be to God! The influence of the Word of God is pervading the whole world, and the breaths of holiness are perfuming the nostrils of the peoples of East and West. All the nations are astonished, and declare: "From whence ariseth this clamor, glory, and song? What is the source of this cry, this brilliance, and this blazing light?"   AB00773

The Kingdom of God hath pitched its tents, hoisted its banner and uplifted its pavilions in this extensive space. The hosts of the angels of God have come down with standards of signs; marched off towards all horizons; opened the cities of the hearts of the servants by the power of thy Lord, the Generous; and have blown the great trumpet.  AB07817

There are clear signs which indicate that the effulgent light of the Sun of Truth will shine forth with the utmost intensity not only in the Stuttgart region but throughout the whole of Germany, that the reviving breath of the Holy Spirit will exert great influence there and the pervasive grace of the Word of God will be widely diffused.   AB04765

A wave has arisen from the ocean of the Covenant and struck the shores of America. It has made the far near, and caused the Turk and the Tajik to associate with the people of Belgium. Ere long it shall make the darkest night the envy of brightest day, and shall transform the continent of Africa into a rose garden and flower-laden paradise.  AB08719

For a time it was concealed behind the clouds of glory, then it appeared and shone forth upon East and West with intense radiance and brilliance. Thus from its dawning, new effects become manifest each day and mighty results become clear and evident. It is hoped that through this dawning the horizons will soon become illumined and radiant.  AB06670

The greatness of these publications is not known or recognized now, but later they will gain such importance that every copy containing an article about the Cause of Baha'u'llah will surely become a tablet, placed in every home in a most respected place, and its contents will become the words on the tongues of the learned ones of the world  AB05192

The Word of God was exalted and the divine fragrances were diffused. The call of Truth became world-embracing and the sound of Am I not? reached both near and far. The Cause of God became greater and the edifice of God's Law became more elevated. All nations were affected, and the enemies of the Blessed Beauty became disappointed and lost.  AB00122

Though we are strangers, yet we hope that through the bounties and favors of the Ancient Beauty we may become the envy of the East, and that the West may become as the East...If this Most Great Luminary had risen from our horizon, by now the regions of the West would have become the illumined morn, the embodied spirit, and the manifest light.  AB06107

Now in Iran too this spiritual power is manifest and will certainly shine forth brilliantly. Through divine heavenly bounties, 'Abdu'l-Baha's hope is that you may attain complete success, become renowned for service at the divine threshold, enter the court of the All-Merciful, and be distinguished among the world's leaders with eternal glory.  AB10992

A wave from the ocean of the Covenant hath surged and struck the shores of America. It hath made the far appear near, and caused the Turk and the Tajik to associate with the people of Belgium. Ere long it shall make the darkest night the envy of brightest day, and shall transform the continent of Africa into a rose garden and a flowery meadow.  AB08719

I am constantly occupied with promoting teaching in America, and thus day by day the Word of God is rising and ascending. You too in Iran must attend to this, and as much as possible the friends of God should travel from city to city and region to region purely to teach God's Cause, encourage God's loved ones, and give glad tidings to seekers.  AB11630

Indeed, through the migration of these emigrants to this land, the fame and exaltation of this Cause hath encompassed all regions of earth, such that all the peoples of these parts have become aware. This victory hath been achieved by the King of Oneness through the hand of the enemies themselves, without anyone being conscious or aware of it.   BH00958

Despite this, day by day more people fell to searching and joined the ranks of the believers and resisted the deniers. They solved the difficulties of divine questions, revealed the secrets of the signs and traces, destroyed the foundation of vain imaginings and traditions, and gave the souls awareness of the original basis of religion and faith.   ABU1169

Praise be to God, through divine assistance and grace the holy fragrances have perfumed the East and West. In the lands of Turk and Tajik and Europe and America the cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha is raised. East and West are like two beloveds embracing each other. Unknown Iran has become the qiblih of the world - soon this will become evident and manifest.  AB12151

It is certain that day by day it will grow and develop and finally will yield full ears of grain. Now you are the plantation in the field of reality and under the training of the Sun of Truth, from the rain of divine bounties, you gain fresh strength each moment and in a short time you will yield blessed grains. And this will certainly come to pass.   AB03151

Know thou that all these visions indicate that the lights shall shine brilliantly in those regions, and that the musk-laden breezes from these gardens shall waft to those parts and perfume those precincts. God will raise up in that city souls who are the salt of the earth, through whom the traces of truth shall be spread by their words, deeds, and conduct.  AB05402

But remember that these did not affect the Cause of Christianity; nay, rather, It advanced daily in power and potency, in spendor and effulgence. Therefore, my purpose is to warm you against accusations, certain criticisms, certain reviling in articles in the newspapers. Do not worry; they are the very cause of confirming the Cause, of uplifting the Movement  ABU1952

Assuredly that city will become like unto the Abha Paradise and the Tree of Life will flourish there, casting its shadow over all those regions. I am wholly certain that as a result of your devotion and love, your constancy and steadfastness, that city will eventually be illumined and the lamps of divine guidance will shine therein with the utmost intensity.  AB12318

Notwithstanding these decisions of great doctors and reverend lawyers, and severe punishments and reprimands - beatings, banishments, and imprisonments - on the part of governors, this sect was daily on the increase, and the discussion and disputation was such that in meetings and assemblies in all parts of Persia there was no conversation but on this topic.  AB00003

From the West comes glad tidings of the diffusion of the divine fragrances, and from the East comes joyful news of souls being enkindled with the fire of the love of God. From the South, moment by moment, a sweet fragrance wafts, and from the North a perfumed breeze blows, showing that the Word of God is being exalted and the divine fragrances are spreading.   AB01853

The Orient is exhilarated. The fire of the love of God is ignited everywhere. The Orient is moving, just as tree moves in the way of a breeze, and the breeze of the love of God is now setting the Orient in motion. All the people there are truly seeking, and are either becoming believers or out and out enemies. Throughout Orient there is now a great commotion.  ABU1245

it is the heart's desire that in that country the Sun of the All-Merciful heaven would shine forth and manifest such splendor that India would become a rose-garden...May India repeatedly pour forth sweetness, scatter musk and ambergris, blend milk and honey, and raise such a tumult that Japan may be guided to the divine path and China become a supreme paradise  AB05886

In the days of Christ, eleven souls were attracted through the power of the Holy Spirit, but in nine days blessed souls in Budapest entered the Abha Kingdom. Observe how great is the power of the Abha Kingdom, that at the mere call hearts are attracted and become enkindled with the fire of the love of God. Now that this is so, consider what will happen later.   AB03937

"Thereupon We arose to promote the Cause and manifested the Face with clear sovereignty until the Cause reached the East of the earth and its West, and the power of God was made manifest and encompassed all peoples, and the hearts of the troubled were set at rest, and the sun of assurance shone forth from the horizon of might with manifest and glorious lights."  BH00980

This ascendancy is not yet fully evident in all its details, nevertheless its indications are clear and its sovereignty is all subduing. The East proclaimeth: 'Sanctified be Our Lord the Most Exalted One!' The West declareth: 'Sanctified be Our Lord the All-Glorious!' The throbbing artery of existence pulsates with every beat: 'O Thou Glory of the All-Glorious!'  AB05413

The Persian friends must become so enkindled that they will illumine and brighten Shiraz. They must strive night and day, blaze like fire, shine forth like candles, gleam like stars, and become on earth a penetrating force like angels, becoming celestial heralds to the gathering of the world. They must bestow life, make others alive, bring joy, and grant success.  AB08324

According to reports, in that region, the land of Khurasan, the Call is raised high and the magnetic power of the attraction of hearts has set every person of understanding in motion toward the Abha Kingdom. It has bestowed new spirit upon East and West, and from every direction its fame has spread worldwide and the Cause of God has expanded throughout the earth.  AB00558

This is not known now but shall become evident and clear hereafter. The seed when growing, at first doth not attract attention, but later it becometh green and thriveth, adorning the rose-garden and the orchard. Now, likewise, this divine bounty is unknown, it is not yet revealed, but soon will its splendor illumine the horizons and brighten the East and the West.  AB03199

Despite this, we hope from the Lord's mercy that eventually the bell of the Most Glorious Kingdom and the drum of the Supreme Concourse will raise an uproar and tumult, and the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious" will create intense excitement, and the call of "O glad tidings! O glad tidings!" will reach the ears of the dwellers in the monasteries of the Kingdom.  AB02122

The East has become illumined, the West perfumed. It surged in America, became renowned in Africa. It cast its flame to the horizons, shed the light of dawning. The cry of longing arose, became like spreading fire. The fame of the Kingdom of God has created a tumult throughout all regions, and the resonance of the Word of God has shaken the foundations of the world.  AB03795

For years murder and martyrdom were everyday occurences. Up to the time when Baha'o'llah was exiled to Bagdad, every means conceivable was used to annihilate his teachings' but for one man killed, a hundred have come forward; for one family destroyed, a hundred have arisen and in this proportion are the friends of justice increasing in Persia and throughout the world.  ABU0306

In the days of Christ, the blessed Cause did not extend beyond the vicinity of Jerusalem - what transpired happened afterwards. And in the days of the Lord of Batha (may my spirit be sacrificed for the near ones), His glorious call was confined to Hijaz, but the fame of this mighty Cause in the Blessed Days reached East and West and Tablets to the kings were revealed.   AB00941

As for what thou hast mentioned in thy letter concerning arrival in the Land of ?a and the gathering of thy Lord's loved ones, the Lord of Names, it hath been proven with evidence that God's Cause shall triumph over all possibility, and soon shall the lights of the Sun of Knowledge encompass the whole world and the radiance of the Orb of Unity prevail over all nations.   BH00907

Mr. . ., in a letter to us, hath endeavored to explain in detail that thy return was like showers of rain to that country and like the attack of a lion upon those valleys and mountains. He also informed us that thou hadst been received there with honors by the best men; by those whose breasts were dilated by the gentle breeze coming from the gardens of the Kingdom of God  AB02171

The world is awake and aware, and East and West have become conscious. The illuminating light of the Most Glorious Beauty hath encompassed the earth and the renown of the Cause of God hath spread throughout the globe, in such wise that the peoples of the world look with wonderment upon the eternal glory of this Cause and are dumbfounded and bewildered by its divine force.   AB02543

The Word of God has penetrated the heart of the horizons and the light of radiance has spread to all regions. You hear nothing but the answering of the call from every direction and the sound of glorification and magnification from every quarter. All the powers of the earth have been shaken and the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" has risen to the Supreme Concourse.   AB03035

This, however, is but the beginning of the dawn, and the heat of the rising Orb of Truth is not yet at the fullness of its power. Once the sun hath mounted to high noon, its fires will burn so hot as to stir even the creeping things beneath the earth; and although it is not for them to behold the light, yet will they all be set in frenzied motion by the impact of the heat.  AB00915

Thus, at the time of Baha'u'llah's ascension, more than two hundred thousand souls had taken shelter beneath His blessed shadow and had attained the station of certitude. The renown of Christ did not even reach, in His own lifetime, Assyria, Chaldea, Asia Minor, or the regions of Syria, whereas Baha'u'llah's renown, in His own lifetime, had spread throughout East and West.  AB00267

God willing, the reality of God's Cause will become manifest and evident without any veil or covering, and be purified and sanctified from the contamination of the calumnies of the calumniators and the spreaders of false rumors. And God willing, you too will be enabled to make the signs of the glory of God's Cause visible and apparent in the sight of the people of the world  AB01830

There were once some missionaries in Acca who felt exceedingly grieved whenever they observed that the people of many nationalities who visited me were satisfied with the Bahai principles. Especially sad were they when the visitors were Americans. They used to say: "We strive to usher other people into the religion of Christ, but here we see the Christians becoming Bahais!"  ABU0454

All over America people know about this Cause, and are daily attracted to it. In far off cities and hamlets, the names of which are unknown to you, there are some who believe in this Revelation. When we reached one of the most remote cities of the United States - - Los Angeles - - there we found many Baha'is - - all attracted and enkindled with the Fire of the Love of God.   ABU0377

America and Europe are like unto the dawn of the sun of reality, just at the beginning of the morning. But before long the Sun of Reality will give its full light, then you will realize how beautiful it will be. But now it is like the beginning of spring, when the grass comes through the ground, but when the time of blossom and fruition will come, it will be very beautiful.  ABU1319

In Los Angeles and San Francisco great interest was manifested in the teachings of Baha'u'llah by the newspapers, universities and churches. Our addresses were lengthy, the message of the Cause was proclaimed and arguments and evidences advanced. There was no dissent. All heard the glad tidings with complete acquiescence, and praise was unanimous, even including the ministers.  ABU0412

Jinab-i-Fadil has spread the spirit of Baha'i teachings in those vast territories... Mr. Roy Wilhelm is assisting Mr. Gregory in teaching the illumined black people... Mr. Charles Hansen traveled to western America and spread the divine teachings in those regions. Mr. Harris, Mr. Mormorton and Mr. Hanko continue to travel around New York, diffusing the fragrances in those parts.   AB01530

All these contending voices which are raised in the world today will ere long be silenced and hushed, but the call of the Kingdom of God will gain volume and impetus day by day. The popularity of these worldly heralds may last for a year or two, but the fame of the souls, who are the heralds of the Kingdom, is eternal for they are sounding the trumpet of celestial, Universal Peace.  ABU1323

Praise be to God, he created enthusiasm and ecstasy in America and established a feast of love and delight. He held a divine celebration, for the heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha was with him, and this caused complete confirmations. He was successful and confirmed from every direction. In all gatherings and churches he followed 'Abdu'l-Baha and raised the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!"  AB02004

"They praised and commended highly the spiritual assembly of New York, saying that day and night they were engaged in the service of the Kingdom... Briefly, four days and four nights were they the guests in the house of this imprisoned one, continually praising and commending the beloved of God and giving the glad-tidings of the attraction of the friends with the fragrances of God."  AB02135

Praise be to God that the outpourings of the Abha Kingdom are flowing like spring rain from all directions, and the banner of the Covenant is raised at the pole of the horizons. The Sun of God's Cause is shining at the zenith of glory, and the carpet of peace and security is spread in all lands. From all peoples of East and West, many are entering beneath the shadow of God's Cause.   AB00498

In the meeting that had been organized in Los Angeles the rays of the Sun of Truth shone forth, making it an assembly of illumination. The house of Mr. and Mrs. . . became the nest and shelter of the birds of the Kingdom, and the house of Mrs. . . and the residence of Miss . . . in Pasadena became the gathering-place of the Merciful and the rose-garden of realities and significances.  AB00756

Now praise be to God, the East is illumined and the West is perfumed. When we used to travel from Tehran to Baghdad, there was not a single believer along the way. But on this journey, in every western city we passed through, we found believers in places never heard of before, like Denver, Dublin, Buffalo, Boston, Brooklyn, Montclair, Montreal and so forth. The divine call was raised.  ABU0231

Today in the Kingdom of the Glorious Lord, He boasts of the existence of the children of His Friend who have entered beneath the Blessed Tree, that by God's grace there exist among his progeny souls who today speak in the name of Truth, who remember the remembrance of God, who are alive through the breezes of the Spirit, and who are fresh and verdant through the breaths of the Loving One.  AB06939

Surely the standard of discord will fall and the banner of the Daystar of the horizons will be raised high. Darkness will vanish and the light of truth will shine forth. The night of sorrows will end and the great dawn of glad-tidings will break. The fruitless tree will be uprooted, while the Tree of Blessedness and the Divine Lote-Tree will grow and flourish, yielding blossoms and fruit.  AB03558

But now, praise be to God, through the grace and bounty of the Blessed Beauty and the successive confirmations of the Supreme Concourse, all eyes behold the greatness of the Cause of the Lord. In all horizons the fame of the Cause of God is exalted and the call of the Abha Kingdom is world-embracing. From the East rises the cry of Ya Baha'ul-Abha and from the West is heard Ya Ali'ul-A'la.  AB08976

Surely strive day and night with heart and soul so that the divine enkindled fire may blaze forth in that region as it should and as it must, and the life-giving divine breeze may bestow new life. Since the Cause of God has not yet been firmly established in that city, therefore separation [...] and manifestations must be realized. Surely a ray from the light of guidance will shine upon it.  AB10966

'Abdu'l-Baha contrasts the Catholic Church's material resources with the spiritual power of the Baha'i Faith, saying "The Catholic church is like a drop, but the cause of Baha'o'llah is like the ocean" and describes widespread growth: "Astonishing news comes from Teheran, Irak, from all parts of Persia, from Tabriz, from Kurasan, and everywhere. In Kerman and Rafsanjan there is resurrection."   ABU0628

Verily, existence is parched ground and the bounty of the Kingdom is copious rain. The ground of existence shall surely be developed into myrtles of the wisdom of God, for the fragrances of holiness have encompassed the earth, east and west, the glad-tidings of God have successively come from the Kingdom of heaven and the Sun of Truth hath shone forth to all regions with the greatest effulgence.   AB00671

For although this brilliant Star of God's Cause will ultimately shed its rays and its light will become radiant, its beams world-embracing, and the fame of its greatness will reach the ethereal sphere, yet our desire is that we, the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree and this servant, might be instrumental in its spread and exaltation and become the means for enkindling the fire of the love of God   AB00234

All the changes and disturbances in the world contribute to the promotion of this glorious Cause and consolidate its unifying forces. This blessed tree will grow and develop. No power under the sun will stop its progress. The spirit of the Cause will never become weak, its sight will not be dimmed, its hearing will not be list, its hands and feet will not be paralyzed nor its faculties atrophied.   ABU1466

Until at last the call of the Kingdom of Mystery became world-embracing and the fame of the Desired One spread throughout all regions of existence. The pillars of contingent being were set in motion and the brilliant Star of the Placeless shone forth upon all climes. The scratching of the Supreme Pen reached the furthest regions and the cooing of the Dove of Faithfulness gave new life to the dust.   AB00487

Although they do not listen now, God will awaken them to listen. When Christ appeared, no one at all would listen to Christ's teachings and exhortations. They laughed and mocked, but later how they listened, willingly or unwillingly. It is the same now. Although they do not listen now, a day will come when they will listen and will regret and be remorseful that they did not listen from the beginning  ABU0357

Since you have determination in teaching and are not greatly encumbered, you have become renowned for service to God's Cause in all regions, therefore from every direction they seek you and desire your presence. But now your presence in Tehran is very necessary so that you may teach seekers and encourage those present at the home of Jinab-i-Baqiroff, as it is a place frequented by important persons.  AB12112

The hearts of east and west will be conquered, and the spirits of south and north will become the realm of the love of God. Praise be to God that the region of the Caucasus, especially Baku, is a delicate lamp-niche for the lamp of oneness, and a wondrous place of appearance for the Beloved of sanctification. Its friends are sincere, and its loved ones are among the chosen ones of the court of Truth.  AB12131

You must rest assured, knowing for a certainty that the confirmations of the kingdom are yours, that the favors of Baha'u'llah are with you, that the power heavenly is with you, that the assistance of God is with you. If all the inhabitants of the earth should gather they will fail in withstanding you, for they are on the wane, whereas you are waxing greater. They are being degraded; you are progressing.   ABU0236

In the cycle of Christ, a long time elapsed before the songs of praise and glorification gained prominence, yet you observe how ultimately they spread throughout the world. But this Orb of the horizons, at the very beginning of its rising, spread its brilliant rays like the break of dawn across the horizons. Consider, then, what mighty results shall soon appear and what wondrous signs shall become manifest.  AB00512

From the beginning of the world, whether in heavenly books or in history, until now in no dispensation of the Prophets has the divine call spread worldwide in such a brief time, nor has the fame of God's Cause been diffused throughout all regions. Now in this Manifestation, let reference be made to the holy books and it will become clear: this is due to the sharpness of this sword and the strength of that arm.  ABU0194

Japan is like unto a farm whose soil is untouched. Such a soil as this has great capacity. One seed produces an hundredfold. Now, praise be unto God, ye have found such a farm. Ye must develop the lands; ye must free them from thorns and weeds; ye should scatter the seeds of the love of God thereupon, and irrigate them with the rain of the knowledge of God. Rest ye assured that heavenly blessing will be bestowed!  AB00481

Now is the dawn of the morn of Truth. Those who live in the depths of the dark ravines and deep valleys do not see the first glimpses of the rising, glorious sun. Hence they cry out: We do not see the sunshine; we do not feel its warmth. But when the sun ascends to the zenith of the heavens, and stands at the meridian, then the valleys and ravines will be flooded with sunshine and even the blind will feel its heat.   ABU1562

"When He had returned to Baghdad, one day the Blessed Perfection was passing over a bridge and someone mentioned to His blessed Person that a letter was received from Mosul in which reference had been made to Baha'u'llah. With greatest excitement and joy, the Ancient Beauty cried out, 'Aqa Mirza Muhammad-Quli, Aqa Mirza Muhammad-Quli, come quickly and hear the glad-tidings that the fame of the Cause has reached Mosul!'"  ABU2997

All this oppression and tyranny from the unjust oppressors did not prevent or suppress [the Cause], rather day by day the divine melody grew louder and the fire of the love of God blazed more intensely, until it reached such a degree that... It has become universal, and Europe and America and Turk and Tajik and Asia and Africa, like two lovers, have embraced each other, and the battle cry of human unity has been raised.   AB00141

Thanks be to God, the lights of the Sun of Truth have shone upon East and West, transforming dark nights into luminous days. From every direction rises the cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha, and from every quarter the call of Ya 'Aliyyu'l-A'la reaches to heaven's zenith. Were it not for certain self-seeking souls, you would now witness East and West embracing each other, all intoxicated and overcome by the wine of the love of God.  AB01139


"Glory be to God! Such a bounty has appeared in Iran and such a bejeweled crown has been placed upon Iran's head, yet a thousand regrets that they know not its worth and have now been afflicted with religious weakness. May God make the end good. Glory be to God! All future events were revealed explicitly in previous Tablets, some fifty years ago, some thirty years ago, clearly and evidently, and all have been fulfilled."   AB00130

Its contents was a proof of the promotion of the Light of Guidance and the dawn of the Sun of the Kingdom; the attraction of the hearts with the heavenly Countenance and the faith and belief of a number of souls in the appearance of the real Promised One. This news imparted the utmost happiness. Praise be to God that the Sun of Reality has cast its splendor upon that region and in the future it will become wholly illumined.  AB06616

Whatever hath befallen the friends from the manifestations of negation hath been and continueth to be the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God, and likewise the cause of glory, loftiness and ascendancy. The fire which the hand of divine power hath kindled cannot be extinguished by all the peoples of the world, and the light that shineth from the horizon of His will cannot be dimmed by the world's attempts to quench it.  BH03970

That land was illumined from the beginning of the dawn of guidance, but circumstances developed such that it remained in one condition. Now the desire of 'Abdu'l-Baha's heart is that it make extraordinary progress, like a planted field that has been watered and received the sun's heat and reached springtime - in a short time it gains strength and suddenly grows and develops. Such is the hope for the region of Urmia as well.   AB02924

Baha'u'llah, without earthly power and worldly means, laid the foundations for eternal glory and promoted divine teachings. Notwithstanding that all earthly powers and antagonistic peoples and religions arose against Him in order to thwart His efforts and executed twenty thousand of His followers, yet with divine power and heavenly majesty He made His Cause to be all-conquering and His blessed Word to have pervasive influence.   ABU2578

Nevertheless, under the sword of persecution, the call of the Kingdom reached the whole of mankind and the standard of the Cause was planted upon the highest peaks of the world. The lamp of God's Faith grew brighter, and the fragrance of divine love perfumed the horizons of the world. This is precisely why you see that the cry of "Ya 'Aliyu'l-A'la" has reached every hearer, and the call of "Ya Bahau'l-Abha" has penetrated every heart.  ABU0915

They diffuse the divine fragrances and exalt the Word of God, teaching with complete sacrifice of self. Great gatherings have been established and teaching assemblies are formed with perfect wisdom and clarity in full public view, such that the notables have no power to assail or oppose them. Praise be to God that the grace and bounty of the Blessed Beauty has created such days when the Cause of God shines forth with such might and power.   AB03163

We have stood before all faces on a Day wherein the hearts of the learned were sorely troubled and the limbs of all names did tremble, and We have manifested the Cause without veil or concealment. Among the people were those who turned toward the horizon of Revelation, and among them were those who turned away, and among them were those who took hold of the Book with such might as could not be weakened by the hosts and armies of the world.   BH03845

Look at the history of the world and try to find a parallel instance in which a native of the East has come to the countries of the West, particularly America, and called out to them in the churches and meetings there, raised the divine call in many of the large cities and invited everyone to the Abha Kingdom, with no one taking exception. Nay, on the contrary, those present at the gatherings have heard him with patience and unbounded joy.   ABU2738

How else could the planet have been rocked from pole to pole? How else could Persia have become the focal point of scattering splendours, and Asia Minor the radiating heart of the beauty of the Lord? However else could the flame of the Manifestation have spread into the south? By what means could the cries of God have been heard in the far north? How else could His summons have been heard in the continents of America and of Africa the dark?   AB00198

Now, praise be to God, a musk-laden breeze hath wafted from that garden, and holy souls have been raised up in that land, who are in communion with the Lord, and call to remembrance His Beauty and Perfections. It is our heartfelt longing to see Bulgaria permeated with the fragrance of musk, and Ruschuk illumined, and to witness the holy breaths blowing, the heavenly favours made manifest, and the lights of divine guidance illuminating that country.  AB07693

The lights of the Abha Kingdom have illumined the dark horizons and made East and West the envy of rose garden and meadow. The lightning flash of truth has transformed the darkest night into the light of the Divine Unity, and the radiance of the Most Great Luminary has made the regions of the West share equally with the East. It has dispelled the dark night and illumined the American continent. Its holy fragrances have perfumed the nostrils of Europe.  AB02718

O loving friends! Praise be to God, the favors of the Most Glorious Beauty surge like an ocean, and the outpourings of the Supreme Kingdom reach their zenith. The soul-stirring cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" rises from the West, and the sweet melody of "Ya 'Aliyyu'l-A'la" reaches the ears of every wise one from the East. The fame of the Sun of Truth has conquered the world, and the renown of the Beloved of the horizons is well-known in both East and West.   AB01745

Consider the foolishness of the governments of Iran and the Ottoman Empire, how they banished Baha'u'llah from Iran to Baghdad and Istanbul, and from there exiled Him to 'Akka. They perpetrated this deed in the hopes of destroying the foundation of the Luminous Cause, but they were not cognizant of the fact that by so doing they were rendering the greatest service to the Faith of Baha, disseminating and spreading its benefit to the whole of the earth.  ABU1913

In Persia every night there are several meetings in different places, held in the utmost supplication and submissiveness. The rulers of Persia, Nasiri'd-Din Shah and Muhammad Shah, thought they could uproot this Cause. Such was their imagination. Nasiri'd-Din Shah thought he could annihilate it, like Nero, the Roman Emperor. No matter how they strove to extinguish this Light, it became brighter. They all disappeared while the banner of God was hoisted.  ABU0636

"Consider where is the prison of Acca and the University of Oxford. Through what power this Cause has become so well-known in that strong hold of learning and erudition... Praise be to God that the Divine Fragrances are being diffused in all parts. Just at this time I wrote a letter to the Islands of Honolulu. These are situated in the Pacific Ocean. Few of the Persians have heard even their names yet the Cause of God has conquered those remote parts."  ABU0406

See how the light of Christ's shining star took three hundred years to shed its rays on the world, whereas the light of BAHA'O'LLAH has permeated all regions in less than half a century. His cause has been spread in every country and the mention of BAHA'O'LLAH made in every tongue. In nearly every country there is an assembly of friends from Teheran to Paris, to San Francisco, to Japan. This is a different age and light is spreading with great rapidity.   ABU0108

In the early centuries, the light of the Sun of Reality always illumined all the western countries from the eastern horizon, and the holy breaths of the Greatest Guidance became a life-giving breeze to European climes from the direction of Asia, perfuming the nostrils. The western powers could not resist the divine spiritual sovereignty, and eventually the Sun of Reality conquered the western horizons with its brilliant rays from the eastern dawning-place.   AB00386

Observe how this Surush descended from heaven in Iran, yet galloped in East and West. At times he raised an uproar in Iran, at times he galloped in Turan. For a moment he raised a call in India, and sometimes lifted up a cry in Europe. Once he shone forth in Iraq, and at times he charged forth in Bulgaria. One day he encountered Turks and Tajiks in Africa. Now he is making a mighty gallop in the vast plains of America and causing great tumult and commotion.   AB04022

In every hour, whatever the Divine Farmer has planted in the field of being and watered from the spring of mercy grows green and flourishing, becoming the beauty of the rose garden and the freshness of the orchard. In every moment a dewdrop arrives, with every breath a morning of divine confirmation dawns. The wondrous signs of this most great cycle become manifest and evident, and the power and grandeur of the Sovereign of Oneness becomes clear and apparent.   AB02646

For the present, it is like unto a gardener who scatters seed in the field. In the future these seed will grow and develop; they will grow into beautiful trees with overshadowing branches, and they will bring forth blossoms and fruits. Then all the people will be astonished, and you will be astonished thinking what wonderful bounty has been bestowed upon you, what a great bestowal and what a wonderful gift; what outpouring of heaven and what divine effulgence.   ABU0750

The flags and banners of the Beloved are ever waving at the top of the masts; they are never inverted; nay, rather, they go on higher day by day; in fact, theirs is the sovereignty. Without fighting forces they conquer the cities; and without taking any tribute they bestow and give freely. The kings gain their victory through bloodshed and the taking of life; whereas the Beloved of God confer life and are victorious. The sovereignty of the friends is an eternal one.  ABU0476

Praise be to the pure Lord that the East is illumined and the West is perfumed. There is no tumult in the city save the curls of the Beloved's tresses; there is no commotion in the horizons save the arch of the Friend's eyebrow. In the East, the cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha is raised high, and in the West, the melody of Ya 'Aliyyu'l-A'la reaches the ears of every sage. The Cause of God has encompassed the world, and the call of the Abha Kingdom has set the earth in motion.  AB00253

A Russian lady named Isabella, very learned and among the intellectuals, came especially from Russia to Alexandria and became a believer and assured believer, and returned with utmost attraction and joy. She is engaged in writing a book about her journey, but she has written and published a comedy about this Cause. She desires that you and the handmaid of God stage this comedy in Paris, for it has been staged in Russia and has awakened the people and had a good effect.  AB08323

You can see that upon the appearance of each of the Manifestations of God, extraordinary progress occurred in the world of minds, thoughts and spirits. Consider, for example, how in this divine age there has been such remarkable progress in the world of mind and thought--and this is but the beginning of its dawn. Soon you will see how these new bounties and divine teachings will illuminate this dark world and transform this region of sorrow into the Paradise of delights.  AB00921

We beseech God that day by day this world-consuming fire may increase and this world-illumining flame may grow, this encompassing grace may expand and this increasing flood may cast all impurity and uncleanliness into the valley of oblivion, until all horizons become sweet and pure and all dawning-places become bright and radiant. At that time the Abha Paradise will encompass the world from East to West, and the sublime grace of the Beautiful Lord will become universal.   AB00424

But the penetrating power of the Blessed Cause has set the pillars of the world in motion. In all American cities the divine call was raised, and likewise in the European realm there is no commotion except from the curl of the Beloved's hair. In all churches and gatherings and assemblies of America, the glad-tidings of the Abha Kingdom were proclaimed with utmost clarity, and no one objected - all listened with great joy and applause. Soon this call will yield great results.   AB02511

In these days, the rays of the Sun of Truth have illumined East and West, enlightening vast regions of the world, causing commotion in all horizons and raising banners upon mountains and hills. From East and West, from every point, the cry of Ya Baha'ul-Abha is raised, and throughout the seven continents of the world, the call of Ya Ali'ul-A'la is ascending. The divine fragrances are spreading, and the Word of God is the melody of the righteous and the song of the chosen ones.  AB06548

Soon will the Cause of God prevail over all. None can frustrate His Purpose and none can prevent His Judgment. He doeth what He willeth through His sovereignty and ordaineth what He pleaseth through His power. Were one to observe carefully today, he would perceive the Sun of the Cause at its zenith, despite all rulers being opposed, all divines turning away, all kings outwardly united against it, all news flowing continuously by land and sea, and all ranks arrayed in opposition.  BH01787

Assuredly those holy souls who seek no purpose save the good-pleasure of the Most Glorious Beauty and desire no shelter save the cave of His favor, are engaged in laying down their lives in His path and are familiar with standing guard at His threshold. They open their tongues in His praise and offer worship and adoration before all the people of the world. They exert mighty efforts in promoting His teachings and display wondrous power in spreading His counsels and exhortations.  AB05956

In His blessed lifetime Christ educated, in reality, only eleven souls, the greatest of whom, Peter, nonetheless denied Him thrice when put to the test. Notwithstanding this, behold how the Cause of Christ subsequently pervaded the whole earth! In this day Baha'u'llah has educated thousands of souls who, under the threat of the sword, have raised to the highest heaven the cry of O Thou the Glory of Glories! and whose faces have shone as brightly as gold in the crucible of trials.  AB00029

The [Iranian] authorities thought that once they exiled the Blessed Beauty, the matter would be concluded and [the Faith] would be eradicated and erased, without any trace, and this Light would be extinguished. Shortly after the ascension [of Baha'u'llah], when the difficulties had reached their zenith... Praise be God that now, not long after that event, great victories have been won [for the Cause] in the East and the West, and confirmations from on high surround all unceasingly.   ABU1748

But any city wherein the light of guidance has shone forth, where the protection of divine favor has arrived, and where the verses of unity have been chanted - such cities become illumined. Even if a small village attains to this mighty grace, it becomes a great city. Now, praise be to God, Bijar has become a rose garden, and God willing, Tuyserkan shall become a flower garden, for the fragrances of the divine rose garden are spreading and the breezes from the source of grace are blowing.  AB09328

The present condition of the Baha'i Cause in Germany is most satisfactory. The believers of God have progressed greatly along spiritual lines. All these letters testify to their sincerity and faithfulness. When his holiness Christ left this world he had only 60 or 70 disciples or according to the book of Acts 120 followers; but when I pass away from this world I will leave behind hundreds of thousands of believers. Praise be to God that the friends are to be found in every part of the world.   ABU1218

Among them, the former Secretary of State of America, Mr. Bryan, after traveling in Asia and returning to America, delivered an eloquent address and fluent speech in great gatherings which American newspapers published. Among his address was this: that the Eastern world will find success and prosperity through the teachings of Baha'u'llah; there is no other hope. When these glorious teachings become universal, the horizon of the East will become illumined with the light of success and prosperity.   AB01390

The Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones, whenever He would mention that land and clime, signs of joy would become manifest and evident on His blessed countenance. This indicates that the structure of God's Cause in that realm will gain strength and stability before other regions. The fragrances of the Most Glorious Paradise will make Tabriz musk-scented, and in Azerbaijan will kindle a fire that bestows spirit and life. Abdul-Baha awaits this, and certainly it shall be so.  AB08337

The word of unity is spreading, the verses of oneness are being sung, the sea of God's bestowals is tossing high its waves, and in plunging cataracts His blessings are pouring down. The confirmations of Him Who is the Ever-Forgiving have wrapped every clime in light, the armies of the Company on high are rushing forward to do battle at the side of the friends of the Lord and carry the day, the fame of the Ancient Beauty resoundeth from pole to pole and word of the Holy Cause hath spread to east and west.  AB00073

It is evident that this Cause grows in elevation day by day. At first it was confined to Shiraz, but due to critical publications it spread throughout all of Iran. Through the publications of Iran's divines, like the shooting star composition of the late Haji Muhammad Karim Khan, it spread to various lands. Then, because of newspaper publications that permitted the utmost criticism and disparagement, it spread throughout all horizons and rises day by day. This no one can deny, whether stranger or friend.  AB01908

O spiritual friends! At this moment, 'Abdu'l-Baha received a letter from America bearing the glad tidings that that western land has become the East - meaning that the lights of the Sun of Truth have shone forth and radiated so brilliantly that the gleam of the morn of guidance has dawned and every seeker has attained his goal. The melody of the people of Baha reaches continuously to the Concourse on High, and the life-giving song of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" has become the anthem of the peoples and nations there.   AB00055

The Cause was once confined to the city of Shiraz, very few became believers, no one paid any attention to them at first - that is, no importance was attached to their gatherings by the people. Then that gathering spread its influence to Isphahan, then to Teheran and Khorasan and all over Persia, then to other countries until it finally reached America. And God willing from America it will spread its influence to all of the Pacific coast, to Japan, China, in short, it will exercise its influence all over the world.  ABU0369

It is about twenty-three years that the fragrances of God have been diffused in America, but no adequate and befitting motion has been realized, and no great acclamation and acceleration has been witnessed. Now it is my hope that through the heavenly power, the fragrances of the Merciful, the attraction of consciousness, the celestial outpourings, the heavenly cohorts and the gushing forth of the fountain of divine love, the believers of God may arise and in a short time the greatest good may unveil her countenance   AB00209

When the Blessed Perfection and His family were exiled from Persia, all along our way from Teheran to Bagdad we did not find any believer, only a handful of desponded friends were in Bagdad. All the people firmly believed that with the exile of Baha'u'llah the fire of this Cause will become extinct. Were they not wrong in their reckonings? About 30 years ago no one had heard the name of the Baha'i Cause in Ashkabad but now the dome of the first Mashrekal Azkar like a radiant jewel, glitters under the rays of the sun.  ABU0485

The full measure of your success is as yet unrevealed, its significance still unapprehended. Erelong ye will, with your own eyes, witness how brilliantly every one of you, even as a shining star, will radiate in the firmament of your country the light of divine Guidance, and will bestow upon its people the glory of an everlasting life. The range of your future achievements still remains undisclosed. I fervently hope that in the near future the whole earth may be stirred and shaken by the results of your achievements.   AB00049

During the first journey to Europe no one was thinking to do this work. Now and then Mirza Bager Khan, who was a member of our party, wrote down a few addresses and dates, but no systematic attempt was made in this direction. Hence many addresses were delivered which were not at all reported. The aim was to proclaim the Appearance of the Kingdom of Abha which, praise be to God, was accomplished. We have scattered the seeds. Now God will cause its growth. It is assured that they will grow and reach the stage of fruition.   ABU2082

Observe how this Tree of Paradise became the target of the enemies' pickaxe and axe. Surely more than twenty thousand of its branches and leaves were cut down by the sword of oppression and tyranny. Despite this, it brought forth thousands, nay millions, of new leaves and branches, such that in these days it has cast its shade over all horizons. Its verdant branch has cast its shadow upon the palace of America, and its fragrant scent has reached Asia and Africa, and ere long its shade will be cast over Australia and Europe.  AB01687

O ye friends of God! A ray from the Sun of Truth hath shone upon the West, the Occident hath become the Orient, the distant region hath drawn nigh, the remote ones have become intimate, and those deprived have become the confidants of the highest heaven. The destitute have received a portion and share of the divine bounty, and the wanderers have taken refuge in a mighty stronghold. The melody of the Kingdom of Abha is raised in both East and West, and the anthem of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha is the song of every wise and mindful one.  AB04622

Now we hope that the fruits of man's existence will appear in these days (or seasons). In the Koran it says: 'Before long God will bring forth people whom He loves and who love Him.' When they said to His Holiness Christ: 'Your followers do not behave according to discipline and rules.' His Holiness Christ answered them: 'These are the days of marriage and not the days of discipline. The days of rules and discipline will come afterwards.' This means that the fruit of the trees will be gathered in summer and not in the spring.  ABU1412

The Northeastern States on the shores of the Atlantic--Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Vermont, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York--in some of these states believers are found, but in some of the cities of these states up to this date people are not yet illumined with the lights of the Kingdom and are not aware of the heavenly teachings; therefore, whenever it is possible for each one of you, hasten ye to those cities and shine forth like unto the stars with the light of the Most Great Guidance.  AB00956

Notwithstanding these decisions of great doctors and reverend lawyers, and severe punishments and reprimands - beatings, banishments, and imprisonments - on the part of governors, this sect was daily on the increase, and the discussion and disputation was such that in meetings and assemblies in all parts of Persia there was no conversation but on this topic. Great was the commotion which arose: the doctors of the Perspicuous Religion were lamenting, the common folk clamorous and agitated, and the Friends rejoicing and applauding.  AB00003

People were always inquiring why, if this Religion were such a great one, did not more people [] of it in the lifetime of the Blessed Perfection, - forgetting that in the time of Jesus Christ, when He was at Nazareth, the people of Acca, (Nazareth is only about fifteen to twenty miles from Acca) even had not heard of Him; and when He died His followers numbered about 100. Whereas this Message had been written to all the kings and [] of the earth, and had been known among many nations, during the lifetime of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU0378

The day is approaching when the Sun of Truth will scatter these dense clouds and its gleaming rays will illuminate the whole earth. The sighing of the oppressed will be transformed into joy and their suffering into the words Blessed are we! The cry of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha! will arise from every stone, clay clod, and tree; and the shout of Glorified be my Lord, the Most High! will be uplifted from every plain, desert, and mountaintop. The paradise of Abha will encompass the whole earth, and the blessed Tree will overshadow all regions.  AB02085

O Star of the West! Be happy, be happy, for if thou dost show steadfastness and constancy, thou shalt also become the Star of the East and be spread throughout every land. Although at present thy readers are few and thy volume small and thy voice weak, yet shouldst thou stand unshakable...in future thy readers shall embrace throngs upon throngs like waves of the sea, thy volume shall increase, thy arena shall become vast, thy voice and fame shall be raised and become world-wide and at last thou shalt become the first paper of the world.  AB08271

The pavilions of Thy manifest Faith have been raised in every region and clime, and the tent-ropes of Thy glory have been fastened in every plain and highland, in the depths of valleys and upon every lofty hill. The darkness of error has passed away and the dawn of guidance has breathed upon the horizons. Light has spread to every quarter, the breezes of grace have wafted over all regions, the holy fragrances have been diffused, and the nostrils of the sincere have been perfumed with the fragrance of Thy love on this Day of the Covenant.   AB00327

O loved ones of God! The divine banners are waving in all regions, and the life-giving breeze from the Abha Paradise is bestowing life upon the seven climes. The cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" rises to the Concourse on High from the five continents, and the melody of "Ya 'Aliyyu'l-A'la" from East and West brings joy and ecstasy to the sacred threshold. The strangers are in rapture and delight, and those who were far off are in joy and ecstasy. Asia and America are in each other's embrace, and Europe and Africa are intoxicated from the cup of unity.   AB00303

Praise be unto God that presently the situation has come to a point where we gather with spirituality and love, under the shadow of the Blessed Beauty, on Mount Carmel and in the Shrine of the Bab, with utmost fellowship and affection, engaged in singing the praise of God, with no fear, no danger, no difficulty, no harassment, no opposition, no persecution. This is the power of God. All the monarchs and the nations of the world were our enemies, but now with utmost spirituality and radiance, we are assembled beneath the bounties of Baha'u'llah.  ABU0732

The Cause will soon throw a great reverberation throughout the pillars of the world. It will embrace in its fall the East and the west. Its power will penetrate through every stone of creation. Its imperial Tent will be pitched upon the apex of Existence. Its invisible Army will conquer the cities of the hearts! Its royal diadem will be set upon the brow of humanity. Its throne will be established amongst the children of men. Its heavenly scepter will sway nations and empires! and its spiritual influence will be felt by the people of every clime.  ABU2777

For the Cause of Baha'u'llah has created a great commotion in all horizons. Today the call of Baha'u'llah is raised in all regions of the world. In every western city an assembly is established that raises the call to the divine Kingdom and promotes the teachings of Baha'u'llah. In America the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" is raised, and in Africa the call of "Ya 'Aliyu'l-A'la" reaches the ears of every noble one. Turk and Tajik are attracted to the fragrances of the Abha Garden. In Asia the birds of the divine garden sing with the most wonderful melodies.  AB01199

Alas! Alas! Those divines are unaware that the waves of the ocean of glory will surge high and the pervasive power of the Cause of God will acquire unprecedented glory. Its orb will shine resplendent and the effulgent light of its meteor will permeate the world. Its spark will develop into a flame, its luminous star into a sun, and its drop into a downpour and a flood. Its grain will grow into a harvest, its glittering gem will sparkle in every gathering, its fame will be noised abroad, and the anthem of its glorification will reach the highest heavens.  AB00627

We have manifested the Cause and raised aloft the standards. The might of every oppressor hath not rendered Us powerless, nor hath the clamor of the heedless veiled Us. We act in the kingdom as We please and ordain whatsoever We desire through Our power that prevaileth over the worlds. This is not a lamp that can be extinguished by the winds, nor a fire that can be quenched by the gestures of the opposers. The former hath appeared with a light whereby the heavens and earth were illumined, and the latter with a flame that hath set ablaze the hearts of the sincere ones.  BH01815

The reforms laid down in these nine rays of light have already brought forth seeds and buds in three countries of the East, namely in Persia, in Turkey and in Egypt. The next two decades will let us see blossoms of freedom and fruits of culture in these countries. The truly divine Baha'i Teachings are equally disseminated openly and secretly, through Babis and Baha'is, through adherents and friends, through inspired disciples and those more remote. The holy spirit of the Religion of Unity is already in the air and penetrates everywhere into the darkness of the peoples.   ABU0770

Although in some of the Western States, like California, Oregon, Washington and Colorado, the fragrances of holiness are diffused, numerous souls have taken a share and a portion from the fountain of everlasting life, they have obtained heavenly benediction, have drunk an overflowing cup from the wine of the love of God and have hearkened to the melody of the Supreme Concourse--yet in the states of New Mexico, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, Utah, Arizona and Nevada, the lamp of the love of God is not ignited in a befitting and behooving manner, and the call of the Kingdom of God has not been raised.  AB00936

Similarly, in Ishqabad, the government summoned some distinguished friends, and the governor himself met with them personally and stated that a directive had arrived from the Imperial government's prime ministry, with the message that Convey my message to this community and obtain a sealed document confirming the delivery of said message. The message was: We have conducted a thorough investigation regarding the late Shah and have clearly established this community's innocence. Therefore, you are a respected community in the government's view and are among the first rank of well-wishing subjects.  AB05966

Through the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abha and the onslaught of the hosts of the Supreme Concourse, the lights of sanctification have illumined the East and the West, and the holy fragrances have quickened all regions. The Word of God has been raised up in all climes, and the banners of verses have been unfurled upon every hill. The fame of the Cause of God has encompassed the world. All peoples and nations of the world have been stirred and moved, and have been gathered together in utmost enkindlement and attraction, and "thou seest men enter the religion of God in troops" has been fulfilled.   AB03071

Although outwardly there has been no correspondence or communication for some time, the essence of the heart is stirred with remembrance of the friends of God, moving like a breeze and surging like an encompassing ocean. In these days the region of the Caucasus has shown complete readiness. An effort must be made until it is firmly established that [?] and by the glorious Qur'an, it is the nest of the divine Phoenix of the East. May the voice of the Simurgh of God's Cause be raised high from those [?] regions, and may the reflection of this pure mountain fall with radiance and light upon this boundless space.  AB09710


When the new creation was spread abroad, the East was illumined and the rays of the Sun were diffused throughout the West. The divine springtime in its utmost grandeur made this transient world the manifestation of infinite bounties, and an extraordinary movement occurred in the realm of minds and souls. The banner of the unity of humankind was raised aloft, and the pavilion of fellowship and love cast its shadow upon the pole of the horizons. The wonders, signs, realities and mysteries of creation in this century surpassed a hundred centuries, manifesting such splendor that the minds of the wise were bewildered.  ABU0215

A number of persons coming from the Orient to the Occident for this purpose: this is very wonderful. You cannot find a record of it in any history of any nation. At the utmost, a person, or a number of persons, may go across the continent for sightseeing, for trade or commerce, but simply to travel for the meeting of the friends and for the sake of spiritual communion, this is very rare. This is brought about through the favors of the Blessed Perfection. This is through the bounty of Baha'u'llah. We witness how He has brought about this spiritual connection among the hearts and how He has attracted these hearts together.  ABU1048

All the newspapers and magazines published my addresses and the Western world is ringing with this Call. I have done this not because I expected the praises of men. Far from it! How foolish are some people who may think that we have accepted all these hardships and underwent forty years of incarceration by Sultan Abdul Hamid in order to receive the commendations of men. How thoughtless they are! Neither their adulation or blame shall reach me. I have done my work. I have sown my seeds and leave to the Power of God to cause their growth. You wait a few years longer and you will then hear the notes of this melodious music!   ABU1193

Thou art the first paper of the Bahais which is organized in the country of America. Although for the present thy subscribers are limited, thy form is small and thy voice weak, yet shouldst thou stand unshakable, become the object of the attention of the friends and the center of the generosity of the leaders of the faith who are firm in the Covenant, in the future thy subscribers will become hosts after hosts like unto waves of the sea; thy volume will increase, thy arena will become vast and spacious and thy voice and fame will be raised and become world-wide-and at last thou shalt become the first paper of the world of humanity.  AB08847

A commotion arose and the Call of God reached the ears of the denizens of the Kingdom. Day and night were spent in questions and answers, and some souls were stirred by the breeze from the Abha Paradise. Gatherings were formed and meetings arranged, and 'Abdu'l-Baha, through the aid and favor of Baha, uttered a few words according to his weakness. But as the promised confirmation was evident, it influenced spirits and hearts like the melody of the lute and harp. One became intoxicated with the wine of the love of God, another became enchanted by the cup of "Am I not your Lord?" One took flight in extreme ecstasy, another burst into song.   AB00163

Throughout all creation the signs of growth and development have become evident, and in all beings mighty progress has become manifest. The fair-minded acknowledge that the nineteenth century was the dawn of the age of light and became the pride of ages. In all phases of existence, exaltation became clear and manifest to such a degree that this single age equaled a hundred ages, and this one century produced more effects than fifty centuries--that is, were you to gather together the works, crafts, and achievements of five thousand years, comprising fifty centuries, they would not equal the achievements of this divine age and heavenly century.  AB00299

The Cause has now reached such a state that the banner of Ya Baha'ul-Abha is raised on the right while others' banners are raised on the left. Compare the condition of today with that of thirty years ago. Now that it has spread to Japan and Australia - in Japan a Baha'i journal is being published - observe what tidings these are! The blessed fame of Muhammad, peace be upon Him, has not reached the clime of Japan in thirteen hundred years, and the holy voice of Christ has not influenced that distant realm in two thousand years, yet the world-embracing call of the Baha'is has reached that far country in a brief period, and the Cause is spreading.  AB10727

After His ascension, all the governments and peoples of the world expected that His luminous Orb would set and His sheltering shade would be withdrawn. They waited for His upraised standard to be hauled down and the light shining from His brow to fade away and be no more. All grace and bounty are His; for instead, the lamp of His Cause glowed luminous, and the morning light of His loving providence shone resplendent. The Sinai of His oneness was exalted, and the Summit of His singleness was raised to even loftier heights. The standards of His sovereignty were unfurled, and the signs of His might were made clear and evident to every discerning soul.   AB00195

I hope that this visit of mine to this city shall be productive of results, and that these results may be that all humanity may enjoy the fragrances which shall emanate from your regions, that news reaching any part shall be the cause of joy to the hearts, shall be the means of dilating the breasts. Thus may all the friends thank God saying: "Praise be to God, in Los Angeles there have appeared certain Baha'is who are truly the radiant candles of humanity; are blessed souls; They are the means of admonishing the people, they are progressive amongst mankind; they are very ethical people; they are the cause of the shining forth of the Sun of Reality."   ABU0427

Praise be to God, through the grace and bounty of the Most Great Name (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones), the call of God's Cause is raised in all regions and the fame of the Word of God resounds in every clime. In these days in America the Cause of God is celebrated with illuminations and salvos, in Africa and Asia there is commotion among Turk and Tajik, and in the capital of Japan a Baha'i newspaper has been established which the learned scholar Barkatullah of India publishes in English. Some of the American friends intend to journey to China to raise the call in those lands. In Europe and Asia the drum of the Supreme Concourse is beating.   AB00564

Communication with him had to be in secret, but still the Cause spread, and they said: "Day by day his lamp becomes brighter, his potency becomes greater." But the banishment of Baha'o'llah, the Blessed Perfection, instead of resulting in the extermination of the Cause in the country proved just the contrary; the fame became more widely circulated; the teachings of the Blessed Perfection became more widely promulgated in Persia. Through the power of God he was able to hoist his banner. If at first it was a lamp, it became a flame. If it was a star, it became a mighty sun. The fame of the Cause of the Blessed Perfection went as far as the East and the West.   ABU1343

The people of the earth today are seeing all the great things, but they do not know why they have occurred in this century and not in the past. Everything in this phenomenal world receives its life and substance from the sun, still it is not comprehended. For instance, the diamond mines are brought into existence by the sun, but they do not comprehend this. A child brought up by its parents, does not in its infancy and weakness comprehend who is bestowing care upon him. The gardener plows the field, sows the seed and takes care of the tender plants, but when they have gone to maturity, they don't know from whence they have derived the care. In the coming century, you will see the effect of the gardener who has appeared in these days.   ABU0569

The hosts of His all-glorious Kingdom have rushed forth, and the countless legions of His Company on high have descended with their swords unsheathed. He hath scattered the armies of His foes and defeated the legions of His enemies. Moreover, He hath manifested the signs of His power in all parts of the world and revealed His mighty Cause in every land. The melodies of His holiness have resounded in Europe, and the signs and tokens of His Revelation have been made visible to the Bulgar and the Slav. In America, His lamp hath shed its light upon the darksome night and guided souls from near and far. The fame of His majesty hath been noised abroad throughout Persia, and His servants in Tihran have come to be truly revered to a degree that is without compare in former times.   AB00116

Therefore, my purpose is to warn and strengthen you against accusations, criticisms, revilings and derision in newspaper articles or other publications. Be not disturbed by them. They are the very confirmation of the Cause, the very source of upbuilding to the Movement. May God confirm the day when a score of ministers of the churches may arise and with bared heads cry at the top of their voices that the Baha'is are misguided. I would like to see that day, for that is the time when the Cause of God will spread. Baha'u'llah has pronounced such as these the couriers of the Cause. They will proclaim from pulpits that the Baha'is are fools, that they are a wicked and unrighteous people, but be ye steadfast and unwavering in the Cause of God. They will spread the message of Baha'u'llah.   ABU0554

Soon such a commotion will arise in all regions that the light of revelation will shine forth from the hearts of the lovers, the bell of the horizons will ring out "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" and the drum of East and West will beat the rhythm of "O my Lord, the Most High!" The world will become another world and the universe another universe. The face of the earth will become the highest paradise and the mass of clay will become the Abha Paradise. The trusted Gabriel will appear from the glorious Kingdom and the peacock of the highest realm will spread its sanctified wings. The Cause of God will be exalted and the banner of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" will be raised high. From all horizons the cry of "O glad tidings!" will reach to the zenith of heaven and from East and West the call of "O blessed art thou!" will arise.   AB01213

Know ye and be confident that whatever occurs is the cause of the exaltation of the Cause of God. Then He added: When the Bab was martyred the friends were grief-stricken and disheartened while the enemies were greatly rejoicing, saying 'Praise be to God, the Bab was martyred.' But had the Bab not been martyred, the Blessed Beauty would not have declared His Cause. Later, when the Blessed Beauty was exiled, the friends were grief-stricken and disheartened while the enemies rejoiced, saying 'Praise be to God, Baha'u'llah was exiled.' But had the Blessed Beauty not been exiled, the Tablet to the King and the Tablet to Ra'is would not have been revealed and the Cause of God would not have been spread abroad. Thus it becomes evident that whatever occurs is the cause of the exaltation of the Cause of God, and an unseen hand is at work.  ABU2218

Praise be to God that ye arose to serve in Qum and succeeded in organizing meetings and spiritual gatherings. The friends found solace and the seekers heard familiar melodies. It is hoped this will yield praiseworthy results. Kashan became flower-strewn and the fragrance of mysteries perfumed the nostrils of seekers. Signs of divine confirmation became manifest and the lights of success shone forth. In Nushabad, the feast of spiritual joy was adorned and the wine of the love of God was passed round. In Fathabad, victories appeared and traveling meetings were established. The friends were filled with ecstasy and those unaware of the traceless Beloved found traces. Naraq received the rays of dawning light and the breeze of the Covenant wafted. The overflowing cup was passed round and several souls became intimate with the divine mysteries.  AB11361

Praise be to God that the power of the divine Cause became manifest as the sun in its meridian course. The European and American tour had brought forth most extraordinary and unforeseen results and has advanced and promoted the position of the Cause in the eyes of the public in the most astonishing manner. Consider how great has become the Cause that the Governor-General of Salonika, the Governor-General of Syria, the Governor-General of Damascus, the English Consul General in Beirut and a host of other great men were so excited with an interest as to come to Haifa and call on me to find out the truth without any intermediary. Reflect what a great tumult the Cause of God has thrown in the pillars of the earth - that hardly we have arrived here yesterday than all these men were attracted and listened to all that I have said with much attention.   ABU1103

Consider that when the Spirit of God ascended to the Supreme Kingdom and the Highest Heaven, there were only eleven souls who believed and were assured. According to the texts of the Gospel, these souls became firm and steadfast after His ascension. Similarly, the glad-tidings of the Spirit's appearance and the news of that Mine of Light's advent did not, in His time, extend beyond these regions. Yet at the time of the ascension of the Blessed Beauty, the Most Great Name--may my spirit be sacrificed for His sacred dust--the divine loved ones were countless throughout all regions of the world, and the fame of that Sun of the horizon of unity's rising was celebrated in all climes, the holy fragrances of His celestial kingdom were diffused in every land and region, and the life-giving breezes from His sacred gardens were wafting repeatedly through all parts and regions.  AB00320

It is now demonstrated that all their existent powers have contributed something toward the realization of this world war, even their so-called Christian religion has been made a pliable instrument for the promotion of war purposes. Hence it is evident that they have no other executive power strong enough to remove the accumulated load of their new-created rancours. The only power that is left is the power of the Baha'i Movement which is impartial and entirely spiritual. This is the only highway through which they can marshal their armies of Peace. When they turn their faces toward this Point their hearts will be illuminated with a new light, their complicated relations will be readjusted and their problems solved. For this reason I have said that after this war there must needs be many Baha'i teachers, equipped and ready to go out into the world and explain to the sorrow-stricken nations the self-evident benefits of peace. The whole world will then be in a listening attitude and willing to forget the past and strike a new road of mutual helpfulness and co-operation.  ABU2181

And from the beginning of this Cause until five years have elapsed, there shall be no soul who believed in God before and was of the truthful ones except that it shall enter itself into the fire of God.   BB00200

"We have no statistics and we do not consider these things important. It is the quality of the believers we care for."  ABU2763

His influence continued to spread, and His followers multiplied throughout Persia and neighboring lands, despite fierce opposition and persecution. Soon the followers of the Bab, who had been dwindling away, came and others joined the movement.  ABU3765
 
