
Last night I told you about the life of Baha'u'llah - remember it well. Now in Europe is the beginning of the dawning of this Cause; later there will be an intense illumination. At first, people did not accept Christ's Cause, but later when its intense radiance shone upon the kingdoms of hearts, then they understood. It took three hundred years for His Cause to spread in Europe. But the Cause of Baha'u'llah has spread in both East and West of the world in sixty years. In this journey, wherever we went we found Baha'i gatherings. The fame of the Cause of God has reached to the island of Honolulu and attracted souls. Now we have arrived here and lit a flame - surely a day will come when its light will become magnificent. A tree begins as a single seed, but when it grows it bears delicious fruits and sweet produce.  ABU2158

It is the day of the wedding feast, the springtime. After this will come the days of summer, autumn and winter.  ABU3466

It must have been evident to you that the Supreme Pen has not yet moved according to its own motion, for it has ever been mindful of people's weakness and the need to be gentle with them. Nevertheless, observe how great is that which hath been sent down from His presence, and what lieth concealed in the heaven of thy Lord's will. BH00582

Before the advent of the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon Him), polygamy was so prevalent and widespread among the Arabs that it was impossible to suddenly mandate monogamy.  ABU3006

The question was asked whether after the further declaration of this Truth would the millennium begin at once?  Abdu'l-Baha:  No, gradually, for a plant that grows too quickly lasts only a short time.   ABU2366

Consider the seed which was sown by Christ; verily, it did not blossom until after a long period.  AB05896


Man must take a lesson from divine actions and deeds for God suffers a tree to grow a long time before it attains to perfection. He is able to make a tree grow to fruition in an instant, but wisdom requires a gradual development.  AB11424

"This is not known now, but later on its traces will become evident. Consider the days of Christ: how the light of guidance brightened twelve hearts. How limited it seemed, but how expansive it became afterward and illumined the world!"  ABU0259

As weakness and evanescence are inherent in the nature of the contingent world it was not possible that it should sustain a complete manifestation of the signs and evidences of this Revelation, which hath shone forth from the Summit of Sinai, except in a gradual manner.  AB00023

That is, the Word of God bestowed the spirit of faith upon the children of Israel, and that nation advanced in all degrees under the shadow of His Law and expanded until the time of Solomon and David, taking five hundred years before the Cause was spread as it should be.  ABU0090


For everything there is a special time. There is a special time to plant the seed; there is a special time for its growth; a special time to gather the harvest; a special time for the threshing. When the seed is first planted, you cannot expect to gather the harvest immediately.  ABU2503

Now if the manifest evidences of this incandescent Light are not all immediately apparent in the visible and external world nevertheless all this has been realised in the inner essence of every beings and shall manifest its full potentialities in a manner that is commensurate with the human capability to bear them   AB06323


Development and progression imply gradual stages or degrees. For example, spiritual advancement may be likened to the light of the early dawn. Although this dawn light is dim and pale, a wise man who views the march of the sunrise at its very beginning can foretell the ascendancy of the sun in its full glory and effulgence.   ABU0152


The likeness of the creation of your souls is as the likeness of what groweth in the earth. How do ye preserve it until there cometh forth from the earth a tender shoot? Then, when days pass over it and ye nurture it, it reacheth a station wherein fruits appear. Thus do ye witness in every Revelation the creation of your souls like unto this.   BB00193


Some ordinances cause no harm if implemented today and all must observe them. Others would cause public outcry, and thus their time is deferred. For instance, teaching the Cause of the Rich, the Exalted One is the crown of all deeds. Yet if someone were to arise openly and speak what would cause people to withdraw and servants to turn away and object, they would have departed from wisdom.   BH00466

When we read ancient history, the history of the middle ages and the history of contemporaneous times, we realize how little the world of yesterday resembles the world of today. The scientific beliefs of the middle ages are disproved and of that which was credited by the ancients, few traces remain. In the same way laws outside of science have evolved and arts and even morals have changes.  ABU1015

In each world He appeareth according to the capacity of that world. For example, in the world of spirits He shineth upon them and appeareth unto them through spiritual effects, and likewise in the worlds of bodies, the worlds of names and attributes, and worlds which none hath known save God. Each hath a portion from this Manifestation, appearing unto them in His image to guide them unto God their Lord.   BH00686

Know thou moreover that if thy Lord should wish to raise all created things from the state of a drop to maturity in less than the twinkling of an eye, He would verily be able to do so through His all-pervading, all-encompassing power. Yet He hath loved to cause all things to progress through their ordained stages and gradual development, according to a wisdom which none save His all-compelling, all-informed Self hath comprehended.   BH00627

Although the veils of the heedless and the allusions of the ignorant form a barrier, praise be to the Beloved of all horizons that the piercing glances of the steadfast and upright souls have burned away the veils of light, and the effulgences and revelations of the Sun of Manifestation have encompassed the world, to such extent that any sightless one, should he so desire, may behold the brilliant lights of the horizon of Revelation without any veil or barrier.  BH01227

When Moses came, the world had developed that capacity and these divine laws were revealed. Furthermore, these physical laws are dependent on events. For instance, the Passover festival of the Torah came about when the Israelites were delivered from Egypt - those days became blessed and celebrated. Had that event not occurred, those days would not have become a festival. Similarly, the Feast of Tabernacles came about because when the Israelites left Egypt, they had no dwellings and made shelters - but this did not exist in Abraham's time.  ABU0367

In brief, our meaning is that the change and transformation in the conditions and exigencies of the times is the cause of the abrogation of religious laws, for the time comes when those earlier commandments no longer suit the prevailing conditions. Consider how greatly the exigencies of the modern age differ from those of medieval times! Is it possible that the commandments of former centuries could be enforced in these latter times? It is clear and evident that this would be entirely impossible. Likewise, after the lapse of many centuries, that which is called for at the present time will no longer be suited to the needs of that future age, and change and transformation will be inevitable.   AB00211


"By what process" continued the questioner, "will this peace on earth be established? Will it come at once after a universal declaration of the Truth?"  "No, it will come about gradually," said Abdu'l-Baha. "A plant that grows too quickly lasts but a short time." ABU2959

The nations of the world strive to increase their armaments to such an extent that they become like serpents, rushing at one another, and much blood is shed. The wise ones among the nations gather to investigate the cause, and become aware that the cause of bloodshed is prejudices, the most severe of which is religious prejudice. They strive to eliminate religion so that prejudice, which is a branch of religion, might also disappear. Then they realize that humanity cannot live without religion. Therefore, they gather and study the teachings of existing religions to see which religion conforms to the requirements of the time. Then the Cause of God becomes universal.  BHU0024

consider how the important achievements of the ancient world have been totally exterminated and not a trace remaineth therefrom save the great Cause of the Kingdom of God, which hath no beginning and will have no end. At most, it is only renewed. At the beginning of each renewal it commandeth no attention in the sight of the people, but when once definitely established, it will daily advance and in its daily exaltation will reach the supreme heavens.  AB02090

The beginning of a downpour of rain is only a few drops. In the early dawn the sun rises slowly, giving us here and there a few feeble rays but it is sure that before long it will be stationed in the meridian of its glory. Truly I say the spirit of this age is universal Peace.  ABU1066

The Law of God, from the moment of its revelation, is like the sun rising from the east-how its rays fall upon the horizons; similarly its light falls upon all horizons. Eyes become seeing, understanding. Even if one is not a believer, one acknowledges that this law is truly like the spirit in the human world. It promotes itself without people becoming believers.  ABU1163

Whatsoever is latent in the innermost of this holy cycle, shall gradually appear and be made manifest, for now is but the beginning of its growth and the dayspring of the revelation of its signs.  AB08712

The institutions established by Christ (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him), despite being supported by the Holy Spirit, did not yield rapid results. Gradually the seed He scattered sprouted and grew.   AB01322


In this world we judge a cause or movement by its progress and development. Some movements appear, manifest a brief period of activity, then discontinue. Others show forth a greater measure of growth and strength, but before attaining mature development, weaken, disintegrate and are lost in oblivion. Neither of these mentioned are progressive and permanent. There is still another kind of movement or cause which from a very small, inconspicuous beginning goes forward with sure and steady progress, gradually broadening and widening until it has assumed universal dimensions. The Baha'i Movement is of this nature.   ABU0652

When Christ was crucified and left this world, He had only eleven disciples and a very few followers; but as He served the Cause of truth, look today at the result of His life's work! He has illumined the world, and given life to dead humanity. After His ascension little by little His Cause grew, the souls of His followers became more and more luminous, and the exquisite perfume of their saintly lives spread on all sides.  ABU0503

When you consider this universal order, you see that not a single thing reaches the limit of perfection immediately upon coming into existence, but grows and develops gradually until it reaches that stage.  AB00722

Though this bounty is now like a seed hidden and concealed in the layers of earth, ere long it shall sprout forth and become the bountiful harvest of the Lord of Signs.  AB12823

As to what thou hast asked regarding the embryo [al-janin], know thou that whatsoever hath occurred and will occur in the world is according to divine wisdom, and all things are created complete and perfect, with effect and fruit. If one were to observe and contemplate any matter or thing before his eyes, he would testify with absolute certainty that His wisdom is consummate and His craftsmanship perfect. Consider the hand which is ever with man - all that it possesses is according to wisdom. If but one of its veins, which is the finest and most delicate of all, should be afflicted, the strength and movement of the hand would be impaired. Every sage hath testified to the perfection of His handiwork and every learned one to the completeness of His creation. And whatsoever hath been created must needs reach its state of perfection and attain unto maturity. And if it be prevented by other causes, this too is according to other divine wisdom, which in some cases is manifest and evident, and in others hidden and concealed. For example, God hath bestowed the hand, and for man it is necessary, as it is observed to be the greatest of instruments. However, when it is severed on account of theft, this deficiency is, in the eyes of the discerning, perfect, nay rather, most perfect, for it is the cause of protection and the means of preventing the servants from committing reprehensible and rejected deeds. Observe all things from this perspective. It is evident that the creation of the embryo is for the purpose of growth and maturity, and every soul hath been, and remaineth, powerless to comprehend the essence of the Divine Wisdom.  BH00035

