
The Hands of the Cause of God have been and are the educators of the servants.  BH07562

Therefore, the Hands of the Cause of God must spend all their time in teaching.  AB09671

"O my Lord! Assist the hands of Thy Cause with hosts rushing forth from Thy Kingdom"   AB03832

O Hand of the Cause of God Ibn-i-Abhar, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious   AB11676

The Hand of the Cause of God, Jenabe Ibn-Abhar, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God.  AB11764

The Hands of the Cause of God must now have permanent membership in this spiritual assembly  AB11384

The Hands of the Cause must, in whichever manner possible, have permanent membership of the Spiritual Assembly.  AB12495

He became one of the Hands of the Cause of God and was steadfast in the Covenant with perfect firmness and constancy.  ABU0919

O two faithful servants of Truth and two helpers of the Covenant and two Hands of the Cause of the luminous horizons!   AB03419

O Hands of the Cause of God! This visitation prayer should be recited by me along with a group of the loved ones of God  AB01162

And blessing and peace be upon the Hands of His Cause, through whom His commandments and laws were spread among His servants   BH11538

These are the Hands of His Cause amongst mankind and the cupbearers of the Salsabil of divine knowledge amidst all religions.   BH09644

The Hands of the Cause of God must protect the Cause of God so that it remains preserved and safeguarded from all contingencies   AB04587

Have the illumined grave of the Hand of the Cause Haji Akhund [...] built and repaired with utmost speed and perfect workmanship   AB02501

Be obedient to the Hands of the Cause of God follow what they consider to be of advantage of the Cause and do as they have asked you.   AB04288

The Hands of the Cause of God, upon them be praise, upon them be glory, upon them be bounty and bestowal, must show forth tremendous power  AB03289

The Hands of the Cause of God, upon them be the Most Glorious Glory of God, their greatest duty today is to diffuse the divine fragrances   AB01302

You who are signs of the favors of the Luminary of the horizons must illumine the world and show obedience to the Hands of the Cause of God  AB01836

Especially necessary is consideration of the Hands of the Cause, and respect for them is obligatory, for the Blessed Beauty has so commanded.  AB10444

Enable them, then, to become the Hands of Thy Cause amongst Thy servants, that they may scatter abroad Thy signs, and show forth Thy sovereignty.  BH07119

Meet each of the Hands of the Cause and convey to them the greetings and salutations of the Wronged One, and likewise to the loved ones in that land.   BH04903

Send Thy blessings upon the Hands of Thy Cause in these days, who have remembered Thee and aided Thee and arose to serve Thy Cause among the servants.  BH02645

you traveled with Mr. Harris, the herald of the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, and became companions with His Holiness Ibn-i-Abhar, Hand of the Cause of God   AB11782

Through God's grace - exalted be His glory - thou art mentioned and recorded in the Book as one of the Afnans of the Tree and as one of the Hands of the Cause.   BH03475

Today the Hands of the Cause must each be like a globe of fire from the heat of attraction, and from the flame of guidance become like the light of Moses' Mount.   AB01090

The Hands of the Cause of God are like brilliant lamps. Whatever decision they make, or agreement they reach, or majority vote they achieve, all must obey and submit   AB00886

The letter references "His Honor Afnan of the Sacred Tree" as an intermediary figure of high station, referring to one of the Afnans who served as a Hand of the Cause.   AB04008

The Hands of the Cause of God, upon them be the Most Glorious Glory of God, are among the original members and pillars of the Spiritual Assembly and have voting rights   AB11986

But all must show the utmost consideration toward the honored veteran Hands, for these souls are the manifestation of the favors, bounties and grace of the Blessed Beauty.   AB01568

And peace and blessings be upon the Seal of the Prophets and upon the Hands of the Cause and Dawning-places of wisdom who took no protector or helper for themselves besides Him   BH03477

These are the Hands of God's Cause amongst creation, and these are the trees in the divine garden, their leaves moved by His will and their fruits manifested through His decree.  BH09698

The text establishes that the Hands of the Cause should be permanent members of the temporary Spiritual Assembly and that "showing them consideration and respect is obligatory upon all"  AB01843

The glory from Us be upon My servants and My loved ones, and upon the Hands of My Cause whom God hath made the guides of His creation in His realm and the lamps of His Cause in His lands  BH03155

the primary duties of the Hands of the Cause of God are to author beneficial books and innovative treatises proving the Divinity and Oneness of God and the truth of the Holy Manifestations   AB05282

It is evident that the Hands of the Cause must today think about protecting the Cause of God from every direction, so that through the assistance of the Most Glorious Kingdom they may succeed  AB11643

And salutation, glorification and splendor rest upon the Hands of His Cause, whom neither the affairs of men nor the might of rulers deterred from drawing nigh unto God, the Lord of all mankind.  BH08018

Send down Thy blessings upon the Hands of Thy Cause, whose heads Thou hast adorned with the crowns of detachment and whose temples Thou hast arrayed with the robes of righteousness and fear of God   BH04113

The text explains that "the Hands of the Cause of God are permanent members while others are elected" and that they "must, like this servant, focus all their thoughts on teaching the Cause of God."  AB09088

"Through His sovereignty He hath manifested servants possessed of love and understanding, and made them the hands of His Cause amongst His creation and the lamps of His guidance amongst His creatures"  BH02310

O Hands of the Cause! Gather together and unite, and become as one spirit, one soul, one body, one heart and one mind. Do not allow anyone to create a breach in the Cause of God or introduce any weakness.  AB00972

We have made you the hands of His Cause. Aid ye the Wronged One, for He hath been afflicted at the hands of the wicked ones. He, verily, aideth him who aideth Him, and remembereth him who remembereth Him.   BH03840

O Hands of the Cause of God, teach the friends love and piety, fellowship and faithfulness, that you may be the root of righteousness and the seed of prosperity and signs of servitude to God between the people  AB00417

showing consideration and respect for them is obligatory. Certainly do not let them remain in straitened circumstances. When you observe that they are in hardship, provide them with enough for a moderate living.  AB12503

The Hands of the Cause of God must always strive in such matters so that divine confirmations may surround from all directions. At every moment they should gain joy and fragrance and increase in strength and power.  AB10598

the Hands of the Cause of God are arising with complete dedication to serve the Cause...I beseech Thee...to ordain for each one of the Hands of Thy Cause that which will enable them to raise the standards of Thy guidance  BH02711

Through the blessing of the Blessed Perfection health was granted to me. Immediately I began to write Tablets so that the "Aiadi" of the Cause of God would give the Glad-tidings to the friends that Abdul-Baha is not weak.   AB04996

In the letter of the beloved of the heart, mention was made of the gathering of the Hands of the Cause, upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, in that land, and great joy and delight were expressed at this matter.   BH00877

O ye who are the hands of His power in the kingdom of creation and the manifestations of His grandeur between earth and heaven! Ye are the hands of His Cause in His lands, and the stars of His bountiful care amidst His servants.  BH00704

Convey with the utmost joy and fragrance greetings and messages from 'Abdu'l-Baha to the Hands of the Cause of God, to his honor the Trustee, and likewise to the kings of firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament.  AB01805

The Hands are those souls who were appointed by the Supreme Pen or were addressed by this title and honored with this station by the pen of 'Abdu'l-Baha. For each one who remains firm in God's Covenant, this title holds true for them.  AB03384

'The hands of the Cause' are the hands of Truth. Therefore whosoever is the promoter and the servant of the Word of God he is the hand of Truth. By 'the hands of God' certain definite meanings are connoted. It is not only a verbal expression.  ABU2150

so that the Hands of the Cause of God may give the glad tidings to all the friends... I await divine confirmation on behalf of the Hands of the Cause of God - may God illumine their faces and may the favors of their Merciful Lord be upon them.  AB03513

The Hands of the Cause of God who are firm in the Covenant are the lamps of the horizons. When they decide upon a matter, obedience and submission are obligatory, and obedience to them brings about unity, fellowship and oneness among the friends.  AB00506

Openly at odds with his tyrannical oppressors, no matter how often they threatened him, he defied them. He was never vanquished. Whatever he had to say, he said. He was one of the Hands of the Cause of God, steadfast, unshakable, not to be moved.  AB00002

Remembrance, praise, glorification and splendor be upon the Hands of His Cause who have traversed the lands to exalt His Word, spread His traces, and manifest that which draws them near to Him and teaches them His straight path and His mighty Message.   BH01946

Therefore, leave this Spiritual Assembly in its initial state, and if the appointment of new members is necessary, let the Spiritual Assembly of the Hands of the Cause of God implement whatever they consider appropriate by majority vote within the assembly itself.   AB02819

These are the Hands of the Cause amongst the servants and the Standards of Guidance in all lands. Through the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree and the flowing of the Supreme Pen, they have attained unto a wondrous new life and have drunk from the chalice of detachment.  BH00520

And in one station the hosts of Truth are the Hands of His Cause, that is, those souls who arise for the sake of God to educate the peoples and reform the world, who make the inhabitants of earth aware through wisdom and utterance and guide them to the supreme horizon.   BH02759

May the light that shineth from this luminous horizon, and the fragrances that are wafted from this noble station, rest upon the hands of His Cause who have not broken His covenant and testament, and who have arisen to make mention of Him and praise Him amongst His servants   BH02451

These are servants whom God hath mentioned in His Scriptures, Books and Tablets, and made them the Hands of His Cause amongst His servants. Through them the clouds have rained, and vegetation hath sprouted in valleys and upon hills, and the decree of the Book was raised up.   BH01582

Whatever the Hands of the Cause deem advisable is the very truth and must be carried out...Today, whatever the Hands of the Cause deem advisable is implemented by this servant...this matter is being referred to the Hands regarding whatever manner they deem advisable to implement.  AB05928

And peace and blessings be upon the Hands of His Cause who have traversed the lands to exalt His Word, who have not violated His Covenant and Testament, and who have attained unto the choice wine of revelation in His days. These are among the most exalted of creatures in His Book.  BH11604

Yet the people of the earth remain heedless and veiled, save for a numbered few who are the Hands of the Cause among His servants. In truth, praise and glorification today befit these souls who have arisen to reform the world and are confirmed in that which exalteth the Word of God.  BH01309

The Hands of the Cause of God must arise with such a condition, such delicacy, and such warmth as to dispel the freezing cold of lethargy and the scorching wind of pride, guide the people to divine characteristics, bestow spiritual sentiments, and deliver them from the fetters of perverse schemes.  AB02105

And benediction and peace and glorification and splendor be upon the Hands of His Cause who have traveled through the lands to exalt His Word and elevate His Cause, whom God hath made lamps of guidance among His creatures and from whom have flowed rivers of wisdom and utterance amidst all religions.  BH02582

O thou who hast turned towards Mine horizon! Glorify on My behalf the Hands of My Cause, whom We have chosen for My remembrance amongst My servants and for the proclamation of My Most Great Call and My Great News. We beseech God to guard them, preserve them, and aid them with His hosts from on high.   BH02379

And blessings and peace and glory and splendor be upon the Hands of His Cause who did not break His covenant and testament, who traveled throughout the lands to exalt His Word and spread His signs - these are servants whom We made dawning-places of Our most beautiful names and Our most exalted attributes  BH02205

These are the Hands of the Cause among mankind, and these are the souls who, having abandoned their own will and desire, have held fast to the Will and Purpose of God. They harbor no thoughts of self, and stand firm in service and in offering praise and glorification to the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.  BH00806

And regarding His Honor the Hand of the Cause Ibn-i-Abhar, upon him be the Most Glorious Splendor - definitely pay his debts immediately, including the hundred tomans to Aqa Ghulam-'Ali the pharmacist, and likewise give him all his allowances to date without any reduction, and show the utmost love and respect   AB01666

Therefore, whenever any of the friends conceives of an idea or brings an important matter to mind, they must refer it to the assembly in the presence of the Hands of the Cause - upon them be the Glory of God, His praise, His might, and His exaltation. If the Hands approve it, then it may be carried out; if not, then no.   AB01706

O glorious martyr and Hand of the Cause of God! ... However, those Hands of the Cause of God should be assured that these matters are like the foam on a flood... I hope that the Hands of the Cause of God, may the glory of God be upon them, will, like bars of iron, protect the mighty fortress of the Cause from the attack of others.   AB04925

Light and glory be upon the Hands of the Cause amidst humanity, whom God hath purified from tyranny and immorality, and adorned with the raiment of piety. These are honored servants whom God hath mentioned in His Books, His Scrolls and His Scriptures, both in the past and future, and hath preferred them above many of His creatures.   BH00608

Glory, radiance, light and splendor be upon the hands of the Cause of God who have aided His Cause throughout all lands and regions. These are servants whom We have made keys to the doors of knowledge and understanding in the contingent world. Exalted is the All-Merciful Who hath assisted them to arise to serve His firm and mighty Cause.   BH00744

Light and glory, magnification and praise be upon the Hands of His Cause, through whom the light of patience hath shone forth and the ordinance of choice been established - God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Choosing. Through them the ocean of bounty hath surged and the fragrance of God's tender mercy, the Lord of all beings, hath been wafted.   BH00927

O ye Hands of the Cause! Supplicate ye and pray on my behalf as I do pray on yours that a heavenly power, a divine bounty, a celestial assistance, and victory from on high be vouchsafed on us all...O Hands of the Cause of God! Every possible means has been employed to strengthen and empower the Hands of the Cause of God, beyond what could be imagined   AB00315

From the first day of the establishment of the Revelation upon the throne, this most exalted Word issued forth from the Kingdom of Utterance: for whomsoever among the names that is present before the Throne, a wondrous and sublime Tablet shall be revealed specifically for him. Thereafter We commanded the Hands of the Cause to act according to the requirements of wisdom.  BH05250

And blessing and peace and glorification and glory and remembrance and praise be upon the Hands of His Cause, who drank from the hands of bounty the choice wine of the most great steadfastness. These are servants whom neither the hosts of the wicked nor the ranks of the evil ones did frighten, and who performed that which they were bidden by God, the Lord of the Day of Return.  BH10646

In your letter you expressed some displeasure with the Hands...completely erasing the dignity and respect of the Hands...This servant's intention and desire is that all the Hands of the Cause of God become as one spirit, one heart and one soul, so that day by day their loftiness and elevation increases in people's eyes and all show complete obedience and absolute submission to them   AB00557

They are the Hands of His Cause amidst creation, they who have aided God throughout all ages and have arisen to accomplish that which God did desire, in such wise that neither the power of kings nor the clashing of their swords nor the neighing of their steeds did deter them from the Truth. They have raised their call with utmost power between earth and heaven, summoning all unto the Lord of mankind  BH00235

Glory, praise, peace and splendor be upon the Hands of His Cause who have inhaled the fragrance of the Day of God and have turned to Him with illumined hearts, and who have taken the chalices of prosperity in My Most Great Name from the hands of bounty. These are servants whom God hath described in His Books, His Scriptures, His Psalms and His Tablets, and whom He hath made the Hands of His Cause in His lands.   BH00422

Regarding writing a refutation of the misleader about the Suriy-i-Haykal, such refutations do no harm but rather confirm the Cause of God. However, the Hands of the Cause must take up his refutation and write a response. Likewise, by whatever means possible, the unity and accord of the Hands of the Cause is a matter of utmost necessity and the most complete objective. If this unity is not achieved, great harm will result - nay, the Cause of God will fall into grave danger.  AB06693

The Hands of the Cause of God must elect from their own number nine persons that shall at all times be occupied in the important services in the work of the Guardian of the Cause of God. The election of these nine must be carried either unanimously or by majority from the company of the Hands of the Cause of God and these, whether unanimously or by a majority vote, must give their assent to the choice of the one whom the Guardian of the Cause of God hath chosen as his successor.  AB00001

I hope, through divine grace and bounty, that such fellowship may be established among the Hands of the Cause of God as has never been witnessed from the beginning of creation, nor shall be witnessed hereafter. For this Cause is mighty, mighty indeed, and in the future the institution of the Hands will attain the utmost importance, such that all mighty affairs, both general and specific, pertaining to the Cause of God will be discussed in consultation among the Hands of the Cause of God.  AB00254

Blessed are the Hands of My Cause who have attained unto My remembrance and praise and the service of My Cause, and joy be unto My loved ones who have drunk the choice wine of revelation from the hand of My bounty, and who have soared in My atmosphere and cast aside all else but Me. We have mentioned them in every world among My worlds with such mention as hath been confirmed by the tongue of My grandeur. Through their names have flowed rivers of wisdom and utterance before the faces of all religions.   BH00265

Regarding what you wrote about renovating the resting place of the Afnan at the site where the sacred remains were deposited in Tehran...this matter could be discussed in Tehran at the spiritual gathering of the Hands of the Cause of God. Whatever you consider appropriate and suitable to the time, place and circumstances, implement it by majority vote. For if matters, especially in the gathering of the Hands of the Cause of God, are not decided upon, that gathering will become completely weak and foundationless, and many problems will arise.   AB11689

These are the Hands of the Cause amongst the servants, and these are the lights of the horizons. Through them the light has shone forth and God's commandments and laws have been spread among the people of the Dispensation. These are they who serve the chalices of divine bounties and heavenly gifts. In the name of Truth do they take, in remembrance of Truth do they drink, and to every seeker and questor do they give. These are souls who have had and have no will or purpose of their own. They gaze toward the horizon of the All-Merciful and act according to His command.   BH00651

Through His prevailing Will, He hath established the edifice of His Cause upon the foundation of exposition and the elements of explanation, and hath created for it guardians and protectors to preserve it from every heedless betrayer and ignorant speaker - they who transgress not what God hath revealed in the Book and who speak naught except that which He hath permitted them in the final abode. I bear witness that they are the Hands of His Cause amidst all creation and the Lamps of His guidance between earth and heaven. They are they who stand at His gate and drive away such as unworthy to enter His court.   BH00363

The light shining from the horizon of the heaven of bounty and bestowal be upon the hands of His Cause, who have taken hold of His Book with a power that the hosts of rejection and the manifestations of denial could not withstand. These are they whom God hath described in His mighty Book, both aforetime and in these days: Men whom neither merchandise nor traffic beguile from the remembrance of God, and in another passage: They speak not until He hath spoken, and they do as they are bidden. Through them hath God revealed His Cause and His sovereignty, through them hath He guided mankind unto His straight Path and His mighty Announcement, and through them have His traces been spread abroad, His signs been exalted, and His lights been manifested.  BH01014
