Happiness lies in knowledge, and knowledge in the fear of God, and the fear of God in detachment and aversion from worldly ornaments. And detachment brings divine love, and love seeks the recitation of verses and communes with God, and the attraction of verses refines character - that is, truthfulness in the path of God and fairness with people and mastery over self and association with the righteous and avoidance of the ignorant and respect for the great ones and kindness to the lesser ones and giving counsel to friends and forbearance with enemies and generosity to the poor and love for all people and guidance of those who have gone astray.  This is the most great happiness and the supreme gift and the imperishable bounty. Blessed are they that know. AB08401

Spiritual happiness is light, while sorrow is darkness. This happiness is glad-tidings, while sorrow is disappointment. This happiness is the Kingdom while sorrow is the earthly world. This happiness is life, while sorrow is non-existence. This happiness is the fundamental basis from which man is created, worlds are originated, the contingent beings have existence and the world of God appears like unto the appearance of the sun at mid-day. This happiness is but the love of God. This happiness is but the eternal might the brilliant traces of which are shining forth unto the temples of unity. Were it not for this happiness the world of existence would not have been created. AB03576

No treatment is better for the sick than spiritual joy and delight, and joy and happiness are confined to divine glad-tidings.  AB08686

This is the Day of joy and gladness, inasmuch as the All-Merciful hath come from the heaven of proof with an irrevocable decree   BH07490

and with soul and consciousness create joy and delight. Take up an overflowing cup, raise a resurrection, be happy and successful  AB07397

Can anyone be sorrowful after the Sun of Joy hath dawned from the horizon of the Command of his Lord, the Gracious, the Bountiful?   BH08464

If thou shouldst drink of this wine, such joy shall possess thee that the troubles and sorrows of the world will never seize thee.   BH08428

Under all conditions thou shouldst be joyous, cheerful, and exhilarated. First, thou must at all times be joyous, cheerful and expansive  BH04908



this bitter cup must be drunk with the utmost joy and gladness out of love for the Abha Beauty  AB06135

Only after the sorrow has passed and the happiness has come do we witness the blessing of growth.  ABU3400

sorrow is like furrows, the deeper they go the more plentiful are the fruits we obtain.  ABU3562


All gladness and joy, delight and exultation, and expansion belong to the friends of Truth. Should sorrows sometimes overtake them, joy and relief shall swiftly follow, for the matter resteth with God. Grief is unseemly and sorrow unwarranted.  BH08145

God willing, may you be joyous at all times, and should any sorrow touch you, know with certainty that after it joy is ordained. Indeed, divine bounty towards thee is beyond reckoning. BH11715

Happiness is life; sorrow is death. Spiritual happiness is eternal. This is a light which is not followed by darkness. This is an honor which is not followed by shame. This is a life that is not followed by death. This is an existence that is not followed by annihilation.  AB03576


Now that ye have become the recipients of such great divine favors, ye must be filled with joy and delight, with happiness and gladness, with pleasure and success, and must begin to sing and chant by day and night with soul-stirring melodies and tunes until the eastern nations and western peoples, indeed all the peoples of the world, become immersed in wonder and ecstasy  AB00598

"Spend these days and nights as if in celebration of Naw Ruz; be joyously content and in the state of utmost exhilaration that ye are crowned with such a diadem, that ye are adorned with such a necklace, that ye are robed in such a graceful garment and have such a seal upon your hands. Great is your blessedness because of this bounty O ye maidservants of the All-Merciful"  AB06289

And in the utmost joy and delight, attraction and rapture, may you be occupied with stringing the pearls of praise and diffusing the holy fragrances of glorification of the Most Glorious Beauty among the peoples of the world, so that the sound of the song and delight and the melody of attraction and rapture of the friends may reach the precincts of the Most Glorious Kingdom   AB05376

This happiness is age-abiding! If a person is thirsty for the water of the Knowledge of God, his happiness is unfailing. If a soul is interested in humanitarian deeds, his joy is perennial. Therefore. The happiness that comes through God is a light that is not followed by any darkness; a healing which is not ended by any disease; a glory which is not consummated by any shame.  ABU1296

In this world we are influenced by two sentiments, Joy and Pain. Joy gives us wings! In times of joy our strength is more vital, our intellect keener, and our understanding less clouded. We seem better able to cope with the world and to find our sphere of usefulness. But when sadness visits us we become weak, our strength leaves us, our comprehension is dim and our intelligence veiled.   ABU0386

Physical happiness is subject to a thousand changes and vicissitudes. Have you heard the story of the emperor who looked into the mirror and became very sad and despondent? He said, "Oh! What a healthy and vigorous body I had but how worn it has become now! What a handsome face I had but how ugly it has become now! What graceful stature I had but how bent my body has become with age!" Thus he spoke one by one of the physical conditions of his youth and expressed his sadness at their loss. Such is the end of the physical happiness.  ABU2148

Joy comes through the radiant light, not through the opening up of a world full of afflictions and sorrows. If the soul is joyous, man is nurtured; if the heart is illumined, every condition becomes as a rose garden, and every plot of ground a flower bed and meadow. But if the heart and soul are confined in the prison of grief and sorrow, then even the celestial paradise becomes the depths of a dungeon. Therefore, as much as thou art able, seek the joy of the heavenly realm, that every constraint may be transformed into relief, and every darkness into light.  AB07897

During the time of Peace, security, Comfort and the lack of sorrow, even the monkey will be the most jovial fellow. He will be happy, joyful, grateful, patient and overflowing with gladsomeness. But the sincere servant of Baha'u'llah, who is firm in the Covenant and steadfast in the Testament, while surrounded by the most great sea of tests; threatened by the surging, rocking waves of persecution and encircled by the whirlwinds of calumnies and backbiting - will blossom like unto a rose and breaks into joyous songs and sweet melodies like unto the nightingale.  AB00883

This is what causes joy in the human heart - to be accepted at the threshold of the Divine Unity. Then one's heart is always in the utmost gladness, and even if trials and tribulations assail from all sides, the heart remains joyful. It is like an ocean - waves and storms may be seen on its surface, but its depths remain calm and tranquil. Otherwise, nothing brings lasting joy to man - it lasts but a day or two before being overturned. For instance, if one attains to a treasure, the joy is temporary while the hardship and difficulty are boundless. But if one succeeds in attaining God's good-pleasure and gains acceptance at the threshold of Divine Unity, becoming near to God's presence, praised by His chosen ones, and beloved in the eyes of all - this is a treasure that brings joy upon joy.  ABU0295


Although in this mortal world no soul finds comfort, pleasure, peace of mind or joy of conscience, yet the people of Baha are ever gladdened and rejoiced by the breaths of the Kingdom of Abha, and are ever exhilarated and intoxicated. Therefore, seek thou in every moment a new joy  AB09843

when the light of faith shines forth in the realm of the heart, eternal joy appears and the darkness of sorrow and gloom vanishes away. The despairing one becomes filled with hope, and the sorrowful one is immersed in the sea of gladness. This is an eternal joy that is followed by no sorrow.  AB08717

the loved ones of God are intoxicated from the overflowing cup of trials, and their joy and gladness lie in bearing afflictions and tribulations in the path of God... Rather, we must find joy and gladness that, to the extent of our capacity and ability, we share in the trials of God's loved ones.  AB04055

Happiness is of two kinds: physical, possessed by animals and men, and spiritual, which is known only by those men who have attained to holiness. Physical pleasure is something casual and temporary only-is due to an adventitious and transient condition of the nerves. But spiritual joy is of God and is unending.  ABU1320

Normal spiritual joy has a healing effect upon the body. his joy will then be unceasing and his happiness a flowing stream of crystal water. The joy of a soul is indescribable, if the fragrance of spirituality waft from the garden of his being. This diving happiness is not followed by any sorrow nor is this heavenly spring ended by the sultry days of summer.   ABU0935

Now I counsel thee to patience; nay rather, with utmost joy thou shouldst occupy thyself with the mention of the Lord of all beings, in such wise that the traces of thy happiness may influence the inner realities of the handmaidens of God, that all may arise to praise the Lord of Eternity with supreme joy. Be not sorrowful, for the ocean of gladness is with you.   BH07459

Although the spiritual friends experience continuous and sustained divine joy, if spiritual and physical happiness are joined together it becomes joy upon joy and light upon light. Surely it will become better and more pleasant and more attractive and more satisfying and sweeter.  AB04491

If a man is not happy in his life, death is better than such a life. True joy comes from the tranquility of heart, and this state comes from faith!   ABU3055

"Thou must show such joy and gladness, and seek such delight and felicity, that thy laughter of joy and bliss may reach the Kingdom of the All-Forgiving Lord."  AB07210

Therefore, do not be tested by trials and tribulations, and like a flower be radiant in this meadow so that you may find spiritual joy and seek conscious delight.  AB04282

Are you all well? Are you all happy? If you be not happy, who could be happy? If you be not happy, who could be happy? If you be not attracted, who could be attracted? If you be not radiant, who could be radiant? If you fly not away with joy, who could fly away?   ABU1293

Rejoice ye in these days of God - these are days of gladness for you. Take ye the chalice in His Name, then drink in remembrance of Him, the Mighty, the Bestower.   BH04542

"...the gates of joy have opened, and those who are firm are eternally abiding in what their souls desire, giving thanks to their Lord for what He has given them."  AB04927

that the spirit may be stirred, the heart gladdened, the soul may find joy and delight, the lights of happiness may shine forth, and the bounty of joy may increase  AB05240

Beware, beware lest you grieve over anything, for grief extinguishes the warmth of your love. Rather, be joyful in what God has given you of His love and knowledge   AB05949

what a cheerful feeling thou felt in thy heart? And what a gladness and rejoicing thou didst find? Even thy friends were astonished at what was the cause of this joy.  AB11277

Man must strive to pass his days in the utmost joy, spirit and delight, and this is not possible except through the divine fragrances and the exaltation of the Word of God.  ABU1163

Be joyous, be happy, and out of the intensity of gladness and delight, raise such a melody and song that the ancient Persians will be moved to ecstasy and joy in the realm above.  AB07506

The greatest means of joy and gladness is the mention of the divine friends... This will cause enthusiasm and rapture in the friends and attraction and delight in the loved ones.  AB06951

Be thou stirred with the Divine Glad tidings so that thou mayst hold in thy grasp the Chalice of imperishable Happiness and discover the brilliant star of age-abiding felicity and rest!  AB08156

Happiness is of two kinds: one is physical, the other spiritual. The former is finite: it lasteth a day, a month, perhaps a year, and ultimately yieldeth nothing. But the latter is endless and eternal  AB10040

This is the day of rejoicing and the hour of ecstasy! This is the season of the dead arising from the graves and gathering together! And this is the promised time for the attainment of plenteous grace.  AB07482

turn your attention entirely to another world and establish your connection to another realm, so that all your days may pass in joy upon joy, and all your times may bring forth eternal gladness.   AB04835

that all may be moved to ecstasy and joy at every moment by the song of the nightingale of the divine garden, and may raise such a wondrous melody that its vibrations will reach to the zenith of the ether.   AB01915

This is the Day of supreme joy though tribulation may shine forth from its horizon, and the Day of gladness though pitch darkness may enshroud all directions. Yet the lights of the Sun overcome the darkness.  BH10991

"And now that thou hast attained thereunto in these days, it behooveth thee to sing with joy and gladness and to warble a melody of ecstasy and delight, so to flood the hearts of other handmaidens with ineffable gladness and stir and enrapture their souls."  AB06847


Rejoice in His praise and be happy with His remembrance. I swear by the Ancient Beauty that were man to traverse all the heavens and earth, and carry out a search, he will never find happiness and joy save in His love.   BH10789

"Today all things, the Concourse on High, the divine Books and holy Scriptures, some in the innermost mystery and others openly and manifestly, are engaged in joy and delight, for this is the Most Great Day of rejoicing"  BH06000

Spend day and night in joy, gladness, delight and success, for the Blessed Beauty is pleased with you and this afflicted servant is grateful. It is a time of joy, a season of delight, days of gladness and a period of success.   AB02607

"Tonight I am in the greatest happiness, looking upon this concourse of God. Your meeting here is surely an evidence that you are upholding the Cause of God, that you are aiding and assisting in establishing the Kingdom of God."  ABU0543

The best food is happiness  AB11625

Be in the utmost joy and delight   BH09822

Live in the world with joy and delight   BH07503

Nothing makes a man so happy as love  ABU2090

Thus this good man lived and died in happiness.   ABU0611

we can not know the spiritual life unless we are happy!  ABU3544

Happy are they, blessed are they, and joy be unto them!  BH11137

A cheerful countenance lends consolation to the beholder.   ABU3633

Therefore they must be in the utmost happiness and rejoicing.   ABU2611

Be confident! Be confident! Be happy! Be rejoiced! Be hopeful!  ABU0930

Grieve thou not over anything, but be thou among the joyous ones.   BH02264

May joy and delight be attained and divine gladness unveil its face.  AB03811

Let not sorrows overtake thee. Be thou joyful in the days of thy Lord   BH03079

This is the day of happiness. A happy state brings special blessings.   ABU3437

that thou mayest attain spiritual joy, eternal happiness and heavenly life  AB11279

so that they may bring their days to an end with the utmost joy and delight   AB11992

No man can be happy without God, though he may not know why he is miserable.   ABU3616

I was in a Turkish prison forty years but every day was a day of perfect joy.   ABU3330

Happiness is the most natural possession and immanent attribute of every Bahai.   ABU1110

That we must always have a cheerful face because of the glad tidings in our hearts.  ABU0715

May you always be happy. All My endeavors are for the purpose that you may be happy.  ABU1877

I tell you to be happy because we can not know the spiritual life unless we are happy!  ABU3544

One must always be joyous, must always be radiant, must always be filled with gladness.   ABU2546

yet My spirit is filled with a gladness with which all the joys of the earth can never compare   BH08663

At one time in Acca, thirteen Bahais lived in one room, but they radiated peace, joy and love.   ABU1040

Drink thou the Kawthar of joy in the name of thy Lord, then make mention of Him at morn and eventide   BH07203

"I wish you to become heralds of happiness, because happiness is the cause of progress and development. The Appearance of the Manifestations is to bring happiness; that all may reach this great aim of life. Seek the real happiness; nothing is greater than it. Except this happiness of God there is none; all other happiness is but imagination. Therefore My greatest happiness is to see you spiritually happy."  ABU3062

"In what station are you?" He answered: "In the utmost happiness." "Where does this happiness come from?"  ABU2401

We must clothe ourselves with the robe of joy and happiness. We must not be pessimists and misanthropes.   ABU1709

Therefore when you go back from here you must go with perfect joy and give the glad tidings to every one.  ABU1395

The friends are in the utmost joy and delight while the ill-wishers are disappointed, condemned and rejected   AB03508

True joy comes from the tranquility of heart, and this state comes from faith! This is why we are always happy.   ABU3055

Be ye among the servants with joy and radiance such that the gladness of paradise may be perceived in your faces.  BH02740

The Blessed Beauty said, 'In every twenty-four hours, two hours must be spent in a way that will cause happiness.'   ABU3518

You will be very happy, for I will be with you all the way. You must go with the utmost happiness and cheerfulness.  ABU1514

Always endeavor to make people happy and their hearts joyful so that you may become the cause of guidance to mankind.  ABU1819

God willing, may you ever drink from the ocean of joy and remain fixed in contemplation of the Most Glorious Horizon.   BH06488

"and a Bahai should be joyous. He should attain to such a station of joy that the world will enquire as to his secret."  ABU1652

Be ye always the bearers of good tidings and spread such news quickly.... and be the cause of joy and awakening of hearts  ABU2761

Through the bounties of the Blessed Beauty, my wish for thee is that thou mayest ever remain secure, protected and joyful.  AB10710

Be joyful within yourself and grieve not over anything, and maintain such an expanded heart that it shall never be contracted   BH09413


"Happy are we to be gathered in one assemblage. My greatest happiness is the hope that we may meet one another in the kingdom of Abha."   ABU0451

They are made so happy that they sing and dance under the sword. Eternal happiness is all-inclusive. In it is embraced material happiness.  ABU2621

Contentment is the creator of happiness. Notwithstanding this we were all very happy and thought that ours was the most delicious dinner.   ABU2408

Therefore rejoice, be happy, and drink the cups of gladness through the mystery of thy Gracious Lord in this mighty cycle and glorious age  AB09602

it behooves us that in the midst of harm and cruelty we should spend all our time in joy and gladness and spiritual delight and heavenly grace  AB03245

Notwithstanding these restrictions and this confinement we were in the utmost joy; our breasts were dilated with the happiness of the Kingdom   ABU1698

For now you have your gathering, and we have also sent your source of laughter and joy. In any case, you are surely happy, joyous and radiant.  AB07073

O what joy be unto you! O what delight be unto you! O what rapture be unto you! For ye have attained to a station envied by the honored ones of past ages and future centuries and cycles.   AB00408

This happiness is eternal and the cause of expansion of heart and soul in all divine worlds. When one's happiness is from divine bounties, they will not become sad or sorrowful in any condition   ABU1432

Were one possessed of sight to observe, and one possessed of hearing to hearken, he would witness in all things the freshness of divine joy and would hear the call "The Most Great Joy hath come!"  BH07451

"My fifth wish was to bring about the means of comfort and happiness for the believers - so that they may live with the utmost peace and joyful resignation, that no pain or sorrow may come to them"  ABU1006

Joy is the best cure for your illness. Joy is better than a hundred thousand medicines for a sick person. If there is a sick person and one wishes to cure him, let one cause joy and happiness in his heart.  ABU1728

Be assured. And I will beseech God that you may be confirmed and assisted in all matters, and that you write good news in your letters that brings joy and delight and becomes the cause of gladness to hearts.  AB11672

I saw that all these things he spoke of held absolutely no importance for the woman. Her thought was that the desert was good and she was in the utmost joy. Human joy, comfort and delight depend on character.   ABU0831

When we were exiled from Persia outwardly the means of happiness were completely lacking; we did not have even our wherewithal; notwithstanding this whenever I think of those days my heart is filled with exultation.   ABU1946

Let thy joy and gladness and sorrow be for God alone. Be happy in truth and confident in truth...The radiant effulgence of the Sun of Joy hath taken hold of thee...oceans of joy are concealed in this mention.  BH04914

Therefore, man thinks his happiness is from this world and what it contains, while God has created him in such manner that his happiness must come from the Kingdom; that is, he must find joy from the spiritual world.   ABU1711

Are you happy? For only by happiness can you progress spiritually. Only after the sorrow has passed and the happiness has come do we witness the blessing of growth. Therefore say to the people--"Be happy! Be always happy!"  ABU3400

Be happy! Be rejoiced! Live! If you are not Happy who on earth will be happy? If you are not rejoiced, who will be rejoiced? If you are not illumined, who will be illuminated? If you are not honored, who will be honored?   ABU0750

Consequently, we must be very happy, very glad, very much pleased, very contented, very joyful, because we are submerged in the ocean of the bestowals of Baha'o'llah. A thoughtful man enjoys the gifts and the blessings of God.   ABU1797

Be happy. Do not weep. Be happy. You should be joyous. I hope that day by day you will advance in ideal ways, that you may progress every instant. Thus may you attain to that which is the superlative desire of the saints and holy ones.   ABU0926

Should this happen, it will be filled with bliss in both worlds and remain forever radiant and shining. It will experience boundless joy and felicity and a lasting happiness. Then will he become joyous in both worlds and eternally radiant.  AB03481

"The purport is that the heart of man receives happiness through the fragrances of the paradise of Abha and the breaths of the Holy Spirit. Mundane things do not bring any lasting happiness. Earthly happiness endures but for an hour or two."   ABU0284

I lived there two years in the utmost happiness. The soul of man must be happy no matter where he is. One must attain to that condition of inward beatitude and peace--then outward circumstances will not alter his spiritual calmness and joyousness.   ABU1417

The World needs more happiness and illumination. The star of happiness is in every heart, but we have to disperse the clouds, so that it can shine radiantly. Happiness is an inner state. Once it has been achieved, man will rise to the apex of blissfulness.   ABU2691

Do not believe for one moment that it is possible for man to obtain happiness, joy, serenity and confidence save through God. If his heart is not attached to God no matter how seemingly permanent is the structure of his material happiness it will totter down.  ABU1210

The love of Baha'u'llah is the essence of happiness, Any heart which will become the depository of this love is always happy. There have been many people sad and despondent but as soon as the sun of the love of Baha'u'llah shone in their hearts they became happy.  ABU2889

Therefore we must be happy. Happiness must be in GOD. When people are happy in wealth, wealth may disappear. When they are happy in children, the children may die. If it is in luxury, it may be taken away. Therefore, eternal happiness is impossible for man except in GOD.   ABU2355

But those who have faith in God act according to the divine teachings; even though they need a little food to survive, they will pass their lives in the utmost happiness and joy. This is one of the bounties of religion; this is eternal happiness, life everlasting and real affluence.   ABU1453

You must always be happy. You must associate with joyous and happy people and be adorned with divine morals. Happiness has a direct influence in preserving our health while being upset causes illness. The basis of eternal happiness is spirituality and divine virtue, which is not followed by sorrow.  ABU2148

He spent his days in utter bliss. Here, too, he carried on a small business, which occupied him from morning till noon. In the afternoons he would take his samovar, wrap it in a dark-colored pouch made from a saddlebag, and go off somewhere to a garden or meadow, or out in a field, and have his tea.  AB00002

A bright and happy face cheers people on their way. If you are sad, and pass a child who is laughing, the child, seeing your sad face, will cease to laugh, not knowing why. If the day be dark, how much a gleam of sunshine is prized; so let believers wear smiling happy faces, gleaming like sunshine in the darkness.   ABU1113

One day at luncheon Abdu'l-Baha asked us if we were glad to be at Akka and if we were happy. We answered that we were very happy to be there with Him but that when we thought of our faults we were unhappy. He replied emphatically, "Think not of yourselves, but think of the Bounty of God. This will always make you happy."  ABU3398

Muhammad-'Ali would carefully consider every blessing that came his way. "How delicious my tea is today," he would comment. "What perfume, what color! How lovely this meadow is, and the flowers so bright!" He used to say that everything, even air and water, had its own special fragrance. For him the days passed in indescribable delight. Even kings were not so happy as this old man, the people said. "He is completely free of the world," they would declare. "He lives in joy." AB00002

When you look at reality, there is no one without desire, and no desire is free from trouble and weariness. Therefore every kind of hope becomes the cause of difficulty and burden, and prevents joy and happiness - except the hopes of souls who bind themselves to the divine world. They attain spiritual joy and achieve conscious happiness.  ABU2756

To see the joy of divine gladness on your faces is the cause of my happiness, for when I see you happy, I am happy also. The divine messengers come to bring joy to this earth, for this is the planet of tribulation and torment and the mission of the great masters is to turn men away from these anxieties and to infuse life with infinite joy.   ABU0461

Be confident and at rest and joyous and tranquil under the sheltering shade of the All-Forgiving Lord. During these few days that you are in this world, be ever gladdened by divine glad-tidings and grateful and delighted with heavenly bounty. Never allow sorrow to enter your heart nor give way to weariness. Rather, continuously increase your happiness and joy  AB11955

Happiness is the King of our hearts. Let us not part from it. If the candle of happiness is ignited in the chamber of the heart all the foreboding gloom of evil suggestions will be dispelled. My home is the home of happiness. My home is the home of joy and delight. My home is the home of laughter and exultation. Whosoever enters through the portals of this home must go out with a gladsome heart.  ABU1719

How negligent people are! What insignificant things they consider necessary for their happiness! How negligent they are! Like unto animals, they eat, they sleep, they walk, they sing, they dance, and after the manner of their kind think they are having a good time. But in truth the animals are better off, for without toil or trouble they enjoy all the material blessings necessary for their existence.   ABU1020

Then the comfort of this world also will be thine. All these men thou art beholding are not enjoying happiness, and are heavily laden with misery of some kind or another. If they sleep on couches of velvet and silk, yet they are sad and restless: But when the believers of God free themselves from these entangling ties and become spiritual, sanctified and purified, they receive the real joy of this life and their hearts are at ease.   ABU2894

In any case, forget sorrows and complaints, and hearken to the melody of the Abha Kingdom. Be joyous and delighted, show forth eagerness and ardor, for praise be to God, thou art established beneath the favors of the Most Glorious Beauty, art immortalized in the paradise of the good-pleasure of the Servant of Baha, art regarded by the glance of the Lord of Oneness, and art known and described in the Supreme Concourse as the herald of the Covenant.  AB00458

In this manner men attains to eternal happiness and will enjoy perpetual spiritual health. For the happiness of man is through the spiritual susceptibilities; the happiness of man is through evanescence and complete self-abnegation; the happiness of man is to renounce everything in the path of the Blessed Perfection; the happiness of man is through divine Bestowals; the happiness of man the conceptions of the Kingdom. The misery of man consists in the absence of these.   ABU1998

You must live in the utmost happiness. If any trouble or vicissitude comes into your lives, if your heart is depressed on account of health, livelihood or vocation, let not these things affect you. They should not cause unhappiness, for Baha'u'llah has brought you divine happiness. He has prepared heavenly food for you; He has destined eternal bounty for you; He has bestowed everlasting glory upon you. Therefore, these glad tidings should cause you to soar in the atmosphere of joy forever and ever.   ABU0818

Happy are the righteous that have attained unto the most great truth; happy are the wise that have recognized the straight path of God and turned unto His Kingdom; happy are the glad and sincere, the lamps of whose hearts burn with the knowledge of the All-Merciful and are protected by self-abnegation from the rough winds of test and sorrows; happy are the brave whose hearts the power of the oppressor cannot daunt; happy are the clearsighted that have learned to distinguish the transitory from the eternal, that have turned their faces to the Imperishable and are named among the Immortals in the realm of power and glory.  BH04605

Happiness is the ambrosia of the spirit and the nectar of the souls. It confers on man the boon of immortality and the gift of spiritual vision. Happiness is the morning star guiding the wandering steps to the perennial abode of the blessed. Happiness is crystalline river flowing from the deific mountains through the paradise of the mind and causing on its banks to grow the imperishable ideals of humanity. Happiness is the cherubim of the Almighty which inspires mankind to perform feats of self-sacrifice and deeds of disinterested philanthropy. Happiness is the melodious-singing nightingale which transforms the darkened world of sorrow into the beaming-realm of celestial beatitude. Happiness is the waving ocean in the depth of which the diver finds the pearls of resignation and the corals of renunciation. Happiness is the elysium wherein grows the asphodels of good-will and the amaranths of forgiveness. Happiness is the heaven of God in the blue fields of which are studded bright rolling orbs of satisfaction and fixed stars of contentment.  ABU0781
