strive to reconcile religion and science  AB12140

The foundations of divine religion do not negate sound reason and true science. The principles of divine religion do not contradict knowledge and insight, except for some principles and minutiae of the law which were given according to the exigencies of the time and age.  ABU1366

Today, the greatest and speediest remedy and the sole effective antidote that the Divine Physician has prescribed for the world's ills is the oneness of humanity, universal peace, the explanation of the principles of the divine religions and the removal of dogmatic imitations and customs which are contrary to science and reason.   ABU1968

This evening, inasmuch as those who are present in this assemblage are interested especially in truth and what constitutes truth, hence my subject shall deal therewith. Truth, or reality, is an exposition of facts as they are, - an exposition, however, which is in perfect keeping with reasonableness, with the postulates of logic.  ABU0022


conform religion with science and reason   AB05484

My message is the oneness of humanity and universal peace; the harmony of true science and religion...  ABU2221

religion and science will work hand in hand   ABU1777

Science and religion will embrace each other.   AB12110

fourth is that religion must accord with science  AB07457

the conformity of religion with science and reason   ABU2012

Fourth, science and religion must walk hand in hand.  AB01419

Religion will accord with science and promote peace and harmony   AB04352

Among them is the reconciliation of science, reason and religion.  AB01534

Illumination of science has advanced, likewise religion must advance.   ABU0365


They are founded upon the unity of science and religion and upon investigation of truth.   AB02574

Fourth is that religion must conform with reason and science, otherwise it is superstition   AB01118

Thou art investigating reality and bringing matters into conformity with science and reason.   AB02373

Religion must be the promoter of science and civilization. Otherwise, its absence is preferable.   ABU0994

He speaks with rational proofs and arguments about the harmony of religion with reason and science   AB00966

"The things which are contrary to spirituality are those that oppose true science and a sound mind."  ABU2137

I desire that all of you may speak on the material and divine sciences with clear and convincing words.  ABU2106

Religion and science are as two concentric circles that revolve around one common point, which is reality.  ABU3751

For this Century is the Century of light; the Cycle is the Cycle of science; this period is the period of reality.   ABU0839

Even material sciences and arts have reached such a degree that a child today knows more than the philosophers of old.  AB02372

Another teaching declares the conformity of religion with reason; whatever religion prescribes, a sound reason must approve.   AB00374

And among the teachings is that religion must conform to science and reason, not be superstitions that reason can in no way verify.   AB02100

The fourth teaching of Baha'u'llah is that religion must accord with reason. If religion be contrary to reason, it is superstition.   ABU1080

This matter has now become evident to all that all the teachings of Baha'u'llah conform with science and reason - no one can deny it   ABU1298

Religion has to be in concord with science and reason. When religion is not in concord with reason, it does not satisfy our conscience.  ABU0477

Religion must ever become the cause of amity and love...and science at the same time must be the means of human progress and enlightenment.   ABU3382

They counted these conjectures as sciences and this madness as wisdom from the peerless world...Thus vain was the work of these conjecturers!  AB01958

And likewise about scientific matters, about historical matters, about the existing arts, because in this Cause science and religion are twins.   ABU2443


When the Children of Israel taught both material and religious sciences together in their schools, this resulted in the education of skilled individuals.  ABU3160


"My hope is that you will abandon harmful imitations, spread the truth of the teachings of Christ and remove all those dogmas that are against science and reality"  ABU2324

But when the truth of this matter is clarified and this symbol is explained, it is in no way contradicted by science but rather affirmed by both science and reason.  AB00575

Furthermore, He proclaims that religion must be in harmony with science and reason. If it does not conform to science and reconcile with reason, it is superstition.   ABU0130

This is the age of the discovery of the realities of things. Verily I say unto you, this age is the age of science. This age is the age of the appearance of the truth.  AB07140

Among Baha'u'llah's teachings is that religion must accord with science and reason, for if it conflicts, it is mere imitation and the wise and knowing cannot accept it.   AB00138

They must correspond religious ideals with the deductions of science and reason and discard all such theories which cannot stand the test of intellect and empirical knowledge  ABU1561

"Thus for the first time religion will become harmonized with science and science will be the hand-maid of religion, both showering their material and spiritual gifts on all humanity."  ABU2301

We hope that the future generations of humanity will become freed from these imaginations and superstitions and will walk on the terra firma of scientific certainty and spiritual truths.   ABU0761

The sound opinions of the world, which are the results of philosophical right thinking, correspond to the Traces of the Kingdom, and there does not exist any difference whatever between them.  ABU2887

Religion must be reasonable; it must agree perfectly with science, so that science shall sanction religion and religion sanction science. The two must be brought together, indissolubly, in reality.   ABU0225

Baha'u'llah teaches that religion must be in conformity with science and reason. If belief and teaching are opposed to the analysis of reason and principles of science, they are not worthy of acceptance.   ABU0038

His fourth teaching is that religion and science are twins. If religion opposes science, it is ignorance. Therefore, all religious matters must conform to science, for that which contradicts science is ignorance.  ABU0056

Every matter that is contrary to sound reason and science and is opposed to the fundamental principles of the divine religions is an obstacle to progress and a cause of people avoiding and rejecting the laws of God.   ABU1968

material mind finds various nourishments and progresses through wonderful scientific discoveries...you must set the heart in motion to unite with knowledge - that is, to join spiritual virtues with physical perfections  ABU1127

Science is systematized Truth. The laws of spiritual science are as exact as those of mathematics. Every hour of positive high affirmation of the ideal perfection of mind and body, tends directly to actualize such conditions.  ABU0190

No one should for a moment believe that religion is opposed to science and reason. That science which contradicts true religion is no science, and that religion which teaches contrary to what science and reason teach is no religion.   ABU2272

One of the chief reasons for this growing apathy is that the ministers of religion have taught that religion is opposed to science and reason and have thus enforced imitation. You must, therefore, relate religious verities to science.  ABU2747

The sciences of today are bridges to reality; if then they lead not to reality, naught remains but fruitless illusion. By the one true God! If learning be not a means of access to Him, the Most Manifest, it is nothing but evident loss.  AB03423

His Holiness the Bab, and even more the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah, have taught that God has enabled man to recognize and investigate the laws of nature and place them at his service. ABU0170

religion will become harmonized with science, and science will be the handmaid of religion, both showering their material and spiritual gifts on all humanity.  ABU3336

All human discoveries were once secrets and mysteries sealed and stored up in the bosom of the material universe until the mind of man, which is the greatest of divine effulgences, penetrated them and made them subservient to his will and purpose.   ABU0008

We may think of science as one wing and religion as the other; a bird needs two wings for flight, one alone would be useless. Any religion that contradicts science or that is opposed to it, is only ignorance -- for ignorance is the opposite of knowledge.  ABU0091

All His teachings and laws are in keeping with the spirit of this age and the needs of the people. And greatest of all is the abandonment of religious superstitions and dogmas and the conformity of spiritual matters with scientific and rational arguments.  ABU1366

Praise be to God, that stupendous material developments are obtained in this country; but material civilization alone does not safeguard the progress of a nation...When material civilization joins hands with spiritual civilization, then it will be perfect.  ABU1353

I want to make you understand that material progress and spiritual progress are two very different things, and that only if material progress goes hand in hand with spirituality can any real progress come about, and the Most Great Peace reign in the world.  ABU0276

In this divine Cause, there are divine texts stating that religion, reason and science must agree. For example, if something is proven religiously but not rationally, or proven rationally but not religiously, one must investigate reality until the two align.  ABU2335

Fourth, the comparison of religion with science with a view of conforming the religious principles with scientific postulates. Commenting on this, He declared that the religion which is not in conformity with science should not be considered religion at all.   ABU0382

If the churches are anxious to win the souls back to Christ they must interpret these 'seven great mysteries' of Christianity according to science and reason - otherwise no liberal-minded person will ever accept the old, hide-bound interpretations.  ABU1549

Furthermore, the teachings of Baha'u'llah announce that religion must be in conformity with science and reason; otherwise, it is superstition; for science and reason are realities, and religion itself is the Divine Reality unto which true science and reason must conform.  ABU0040

But you must weigh these words of mine against science and reason. If they accord with these, accept them; if not, reject them. For in the human world there is no greater gift than reason. Reason discovers the realities of things. Reason is the standard of understanding.  ABU0032

Baha'o'llah further declares that through the equipment of science and art the misunderstandings which have prevailed between religion and science will become reconciled. The non-conformity of science and religion has been the greatest factor in keeping the religions apart.   ABU0036

Thanks be to God, that in this new cycle the admonition of Baha'u'llah is that in the search for truth man must weigh religious questions in the balance of science and reason. When religion is upheld by science and reason we can believe with assurance and act with conviction   ABU1902

"The third principle He gave us is the harmony of science and religion. Both science and religion are truth. If religion is against reality and truth it is mere superstition. Every religious tenet that conflicts with true knowledge and sound reasoning is not worthy of belief."  ABU0521

Religion must accord with science and reason. A religion that does not accord with universal science and reason is ignorance. We say science and ignorance are light and darkness. If religion opposes science, that is ignorance. Therefore religion must accord with reason and science.  ABU0532

Just as human intellects have revealed the secrets of matter and have brought forth from the realm of the invisible the mysteries of nature, may minds and spirits, likewise, come into the knowledge of the verities of God, and the realities of the Kingdom be made manifest in human hearts.  ABU0373

"People have a superstitious respect for certain doctrines which are against science and the wise men of the country have thought that religion is opposed to science. Know thou that the great ethical foundation of knowledge is divine revelation and the basis of religion is reality itself."   ABU0873



Science cannot cure the illness of the body politic. Science cannot create amity and fellowship in human hearts. Neither can patriotism nor racial allegiance effect a remedy. It must be accomplished solely through the divine bounties and spiritual bestowals which have descended from God in this day for that purpose.  ABU1450

In the world of existence physical things have a connection with spiritual realities. One of these things is the voice, which connects itself with the spirit; and the spirit can be uplifted by this means -- for though it is a physical thing, it is one of the material, natural organizations -- therefore, it is effective.  ABU0474

Religion must conform to science and reason; otherwise, it is superstition. God has created man in order that he may perceive the verity of existence and endowed him with mind or reason to discover truth. Therefore, scientific knowledge and religious belief must be conformable to the analysis of this divine faculty in man.  ABU0024

Fourth, religion must accord with science and sound reason, for if it conflicts with these it is but superstition, since science is reality. If any religious matter conflicts with science and reason, it is superstition. True science is light, and what opposes it must be darkness. Therefore, religion, science and reason must be in harmony.  ABU0028

Every religion which is not in accordance with established science is superstition. Religion must be reasonable. If it does not square with reason, it is superstition and without foundation. It is like a mirage, which deceives man by leading him to think it is a body of water. God has endowed man with reason that he may perceive what is true.   ABU0233

Baha'u'llah proclaimed that religion and science are twins, inseparable from each other. A religion that does not conform with reason, science and knowledge is but the traditions of forefathers and vain imaginings, for science is an expression of truth. Therefore religion must accord with science, and if it does not, it is vain imagining and false.  ABU0031

For example, their first weapon was that whatever contradicts science is ignorance. We proclaimed that religion must be in accordance with science and reason - they are one. Any religious matter that does not accord with science is superstition. We broke their weapon, for they wanted to say religion contradicts science and reason, therefore is ignorance.  ABU0405

Thirdly, Baha'Ullah proclaimed that religion must correspond with science, for religion is reality and science is reality, and reality corresponds. It is not multiple, there is no difference in any reality. If a religious question be opposed to reason and science, it is pure imagination and baseless, for the opposite of knowledge or science is ignorance.  ABU0171

Religion must reconcile and be in harmony with science and reason. If the religious beliefs of mankind are contrary to science and opposed to reason, they are none other than superstitions and without divine authority, for the Lord God has endowed man with the faculty of reason in order that through its exercise he may arrive at the verities of existence.  ABU0012

There is no contradiction between true religion and science. When a religion is opposed to science it becomes mere superstition: that which is contrary to knowledge is ignorance. Religion and science are the two wings upon which man's intelligence can soar into the heights, with which the human soul can progress. It is not possible to fly with one wing alone!   ABU0493

The world of matter will become the expression of the world of mind. Then discoveries will be revealed, inventions will multiply, the sciences advance by leaps and bounds, the scientific culture of the earth will develop along broader lines. Then the nations will be enabled to utilize the latest and best thought, because expressed in the International Language.  ABU0156

Know that this material world is the mirror of the Kingdom, and each of these worlds is in complete correspondence with the other. The correct theories of this world which are the result of sound philosophical thinking are in agreement with the divine verses without the slightest divergence between them, for the truth of all things is laid away in the treasuries of the Kingdom.  AB00457

Fourthly: Religion and Science are inter-twined with each other and cannot be separated. These are the two wings with which humanity must fly. One wing is not enough. Every religion which does not concern itself with Science is mere tradition, and that is not the essential. Therefore science, education and civilization are most important necessities for the full religious life.  ABU0257

The fourth principle declares that religion must be in conformity to science and reason. If a religion does not agree with the postulates of science nor accord with the regulations of reason it is a bundle of superstitions; a phantasm of the brain. Science and religion are realities, and if that religion to which we adhere be a reality it must needs conform to the fundamental reality of all things.   ABU0083

Furthermore, religion must conform to reason and be in accord with the conclusions of science. For religion, reason and science are realities; therefore, these three, being realities, must conform and be reconciled. A question or principle which is religious in its nature must be sanctioned by science. Science must declare it to be valid, and reason must confirm it in order that it may inspire confidence.  ABU0009

Furthermore, Baha'u'llah proclaimed that religion should be the cause of love and enlightenment in the world, the cause of unity of the human race. If it becomes the cause of strife and bloodshed and savagery, irreligion is better, for God established religion for unity, not hatred - for connection between people, not estrangement. He also stated that religion must accord with science and reason; if it does not, it is mere superstition.  ABU0154

"Among other principles of Baha'u'llah's teachings was the harmony of science and religion. Religion must stand the analysis of reason. It must agree with scientific fact and proof so that science will sanction religion and religion fortify science. Both are indissolubly welded and joined in reality. If statements and teachings of religion are found to be unreasonable and contrary to science, they are outcomes of superstition and imagination."  ABU0030

Another cause of dissension and disagreement is the fact that religion has been pronounced at variance with science. Between scientists and the followers of religion there has always been controversy and strife for the reason that the latter have proclaimed religion superior in authority to science and considered scientific announcement opposed to the teachings of religion. Baha'u'llah declared that religion is in complete harmony with science and reason.  ABU0023

The fourth teaching of Baha'u'llah is the agreement of religion and science. God has endowed man with intelligence and reason whereby he is required to determine the verity of questions and propositions. If religious beliefs and opinions are found contrary to the standards of science, they are mere superstitions and imaginations; for the antithesis of knowledge is ignorance, and the child of ignorance is superstition. Unquestionably there must be agreement between true religion and science.  ABU0007

That religion is in harmony with science. The fundamental principles of the Prophets are scientific, but the forms and imitations which have appeared are opposed to science. If religion does not agree with science, it is superstition and ignorance; for God has endowed man with reason in order that he may perceive reality. The foundations of religion are reasonable. God has created us with intelligence to perceive them. If they are opposed to science and reason, how could they be believed and followed?   ABU0178

The third principle or teaching of Baha'u'llah is the oneness of religion and science. Any religious belief which is not conformable with scientific proof and investigation is superstition, for true science is reason and reality, and religion is essentially reality and pure reason; therefore, the two must correspond. Religious teaching which is at variance with science and reason is human invention and imagination unworthy of acceptance, for the antithesis and opposite of knowledge is superstition born of the ignorance of man.  ABU0051

Scientific knowledge is the highest attainment upon the human plane, for science is the discoverer of realities. It is of two kinds: material and spiritual. Material science is the investigation of natural phenomena; divine science is the discovery and realization of spiritual verities. The world of humanity must acquire both. A bird has two wings; it cannot fly with one. Material and spiritual science are the two wings of human uplift and attainment. Both are necessary -- one the natural, the other supernatural; one material, the other divine.  ABU0346


Morality is the basis of the happiness of the world of humanity. Merciful attributes are the best adornments of man. Science holds the next position to morality. Science is conducive to the happiness of the world of humanity next in degree to morality. If a nation be well qualified with education and yet dispossessed of good morals, it will not attain happiness. If that same nation be dispossessed of education, but possessed of moral training, it will be capable of accomplishing philanthropic deeds. When Morality and science go hand in hand, then will it be light upon light.  ABU0669


