Between Baha'u'llah and the Bab there was communication privately. The Bab wrote a letter containing three hundred and sixty derivatives of the root Baha.  ABU0223

The entire Bayan was revealed so that when a Manifestation appears, none would utter a word about His Cause, and even if one did not believe, he would bring no harm.  BH01053

This is what We promised thee aforetime: be patient until there passeth from the Bayan nine. Say: This was created in His grasp and all are obedient unto Him. Verily, after a time there shall come to you a Command which ye shall come to know.  BH11432

I beseech Thee by Thy Divinity which transcendeth all things, that Thou assist every soul with Alif who believeth in Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection, the Essence of Thy greatest proof.... I beseech Thee by Thy Glory which transcendeth all glory, that Thou assist every soul with Ba who believeth in Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection, the Essence of Thy greatest proof.  BB00236

And as for your inquiry about Him Whom God shall make manifest, if thou shouldst attain unto His Revelation, thou wouldst attain unto a wealth beyond which there is no poverty, and thou wouldst witness a glory beyond which there is no abasement, and a joy beyond which there is no sorrow, and an independence beyond which there is no weakness, and a power beyond which there is no submissiveness.  BB00003

I beseech Thee by Thy Divinity, which is inaccessible above all things, to aid every soul of alif who believeth in Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection, the Embodiment of Thy Most Great Proof....  I beseech Thee by Thy Glory, which is inaccessible above all glory, to aid every soul of ba who believeth in Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection, the Embodiment of Thy Most Great Proof.  BB00230

He Who speaketh at this moment is indeed the Primal Point, Who hath appeared once again  BH04848

Regarding the Tablet you had inquired about: That is the Tablet which the Bab wrote to be presented in the school of "Him Whom God shall make manifest." The Babis have made this a means of confusing minds, saying that "Him Whom God shall make manifest" must be a child so that this petition could be presented in school. Therefore, since the Blessed Beauty was not a child, He is not "Him Whom God shall make manifest." The Blessed Beauty states in the Book that the school of "Him Whom God shall make manifest" is not a children's school or a place for ignorant pupils - it is the school of meanings and exposition that is sanctified above the comprehension of all possibility. He states that in that school I beheld the Tablet of the Bab which was a wondrous divine gift. In any case, the Babis have imagined that the school of "Him Whom God shall make manifest" is a school for ignorant children. Shame upon them! Curse upon them! Woe unto them for this great ignorance! That blessed Tablet of the Bab - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - this servant one day in Iraq by chance presented it to the Blessed Presence in a school, meaning I was the bearer of this gift.  AB00694

Ye have turned away from the Beloved of all possibility, concerning Whom the Point of the Bayan hath said, exalted be His mention: 'Were it not for His Book, this Book would not have been revealed, and were it not for His Self, God would not have manifested Me.'  BH00004

O people! By God, were it not for Him, the Bayan would not have appeared and the verses of God, the Mighty, the Loving, would not have been revealed. Through My Name was the Bayan adorned and the beauty of the All-Merciful appeared in creation   BH04780

In previous Dispensations, there was but one allusion to the subsequent Manifestation; for example, in the Qur'an there is one allusion. In the traditions, the Prophet said to Imam 'Ali: "The Mahdi will come and He will fill the earth with justice, and He is of thy progeny" - this is an allusion. Christ speaks of the "Spirit of Truth" - the Christians say it is the Holy Spirit. But the Bab, night and day, made mention of "Him Whom God shall make manifest," placing no conditions whatsoever.  ABU1986

Consider Him Whom God shall make manifest at the time of Mustaghath. Observe now - hath any ignorant one ever uttered such words?   BH00371

Fix your gaze upon Him Whom God shall make manifest in the Day of Resurrection, then firmly believe in that which is sent down by Him.   BB00611

and become prepared for the encounter with the Most Great Elixir, the honored Essence and the glorious, mighty Spirit - He Whom God shall make manifest - for He is the transformer of spirits, the renewer of elements, and the resurrector of hearts and minds. BH00212

By the life of Him Whom God shall make manifest! If thou wert to continue thus and turn towards all who are on earth, none would oppose thee  BB00536

We announce to you Baha'o'llah, "He whom God shall manifest," the one who has broken the seals of both the creational and collective books.   ABU2536

Rise ye from your seats when mention is made of the name of Him Whom God shall manifest, for verily He is the Truth, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.  BB00004

All this is a mercy from God that ye may believe in Me on that Day, then in Him Whom God shall make manifest through clear signs, for He is the Manifestation of God  BB00004

That is the very essence of the first one who answered God in the primal beginning, and who believeth in Him Whom God shall make manifest at the Dawning-Place of eternity.  BB00598

This is He but for Whose mention the Most Exalted Pen moved not between the fingers of the Primal Point, Who gave you glad tidings of His presence, were ye but fair-minded.   BH01466

And thou shalt command concerning Him Whom God shall make manifest, for verily He shall come with that creation in the other Resurrection with an exalted and glorious sovereignty.   BB00210

He is the One for Whose sake Thou (the Bab) hast yielded Thy life, and hast consented to be touched by the manifold ills of the world that He may manifest Himself, and summoned all mankind in His name.  BH02597

He proclaimed in the wilderness of the Bayan and gave you glad tidings of your Lord, the All-Merciful. Then He came with mighty sovereignty. He testified of Me and informed you of My kingdom and dominion.   BH02705

If ye follow Him upon whom these clear verses have been sent down, then it is Me Whom ye follow. Verily, I am independent of all that hath been or shall be created, but ye are in need of Me in all things.   BB00234

Look not upon yourselves except as ye look upon those who were given the Book before you, that ye may not be veiled on the Day of Resurrection, and that ye may believe in Him Who calleth you unto God, your Lord.   BB00116

Call upon Him Whom God shall make manifest concerning the measures of your religion and your world, and be content with what He ordains for you, for that is what God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting has ordained.  BB00003

And My guides in the Bayan are they who recognize Him Whom God shall make manifest and believe in Him. Then upon all My names after that Name who shall, on the Day of Resurrection, guide others unto Him Whom God shall make manifest.   BB00164

It is as though I behold Him Whom God shall make manifest, exalted be His mention, smiling in all His conditions when He beholdeth no grief that would grieve His heart, for that is the attribute of those who are tested and the way of those who are alone.   BB00225

And whosoever seeth Him Whom God shall make manifest, believing in Him, that one is he who is presented unto God his Lord, and whosoever seeth Him and believeth not in Him, that one is he who is presented unto God his Lord in a manner that God loveth not.  BB00506

Therefore prepare yourselves for the Day of Him Whom God shall manifest, that you may love Him. Verily, on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, most of the people will be divines, but they will have no knowledge unless they believe in God and His verses.  BB00087

O God! Send blessings upon Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest and the letters of His Self among the people of Baha. O God! Send blessings upon Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest and the letters of His Self among the people of Glory.  BB00358

This is why the Point of the Bayan - may the spirit of all in the kingdoms of existence be sacrificed for Him - states that soon it will be witnessed that the people of the Bayan will inflict upon the All-Merciful what no one inflicted upon previous Manifestations.   BH01571

Yet in the Day of the Revelation of God, which is the very Revelation of the Point of the Bayan in His Resurrection, unto Him all gates shall return. Should 361 exalted souls, the number of all things, turn unto Him, the fruit of all things would be manifested before Him.  BB00001

O creation of God and all that you possess on earth! You are all bondservants to Him Whom God shall make manifest with clear signs, and should He accept you as such, you would pride yourselves therein. Verily there is no God but Him, and all else beside Him are His creation.  BB00004

Therefore on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, this is the Throne of His recognition, wherein He hath joined His remembrance to the remembrance of His own Self. No thing shall say There is none other God but Him unless it recognizeth him whom He hath commanded thus.  BB00003

Then He and all His creation bear witness that He Whom God shall make manifest is the Sun of His Revelation, the Mystery of His Concealment, the Essence of His Secret, the Camphor of His Manifestation, the Substance of His Cause, the Embodiment of His Creation, and the Glory of His Self.  BB00003

Know Him then on the day of His appearance, and exalt Him, and glorify Him, and honor Him, and magnify Him, and protect Him as ye would protect your own eyes - nay, with greater protection still. For your eyes were not created save to behold Me or Him, and to prostrate before God their Lord.  BB00004

Know ye that He Who was named in the Bayan as "Him Whom God shall make manifest" shall come with truth in the next Resurrection, and God is the guarantor of this. He shall fulfill His promise and shall come on the day when the Lote-Tree of the Bayan shall rise to a sublime and lofty station.   BH00773

And educate, O my God, all those within it to prostrate themselves before Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest and to find shelter beneath the shadow of Him Whom Thou shalt raise up on the Day of Resurrection through Thy signs which are Thy clear evidences. Verily, Thou hast power over all things.   BB00207

Those souls who are believers in God and are assured of the Blessed Beauty and the Bab - to them the truth of the Blessed Beauty and the Bab is as clear as the sun. These souls know that between the Blessed Beauty and the Bab there was spiritual communication that continued without interruption.  ABU1834

clothe every believer in Me with the garment of Thy glory if they believe in Him Whom Thou shall manifest on the Day of Resurrection through Thy verses. BB00133

He conditioned everything He hath revealed by My good pleasure and made every commandment subservient unto this irrefutable, this undoubted Commandment. Had it not been for My sake He would not have uttered a single word, nor would have He manifested Himself before the gaze of the dwellers of heavens and earth.   BH01928

"I, indeed, beg to address Him Whom God shall make manifest, by Thy leave in these words: 'Shouldst Thou dismiss the entire company of the followers of the Bayan in the Day of the Latter Resurrection by a mere sign of Thy finger even while still a suckling babe, Thou wouldst indeed be praised in Thy indication.'"  BB00550

He Whom God shall make manifest shall appear so that all may bow down before His presence, for He is a Light that speaks of none but thy Ancient Lord. He has appeared in this Star so that the monotheists may perceive the mystery of precedence and witness the decree of what the Family of God and their followers did  BB00019

As for the question about verses revealed in the Tablets regarding Him Whom God shall make manifest - these Tablets were revealed before the year eighty, therefore He says "I bear witness that He Whom God shall make manifest is the Truth in which there is no doubt, and He shall appear with holy and exalted lights" - which referred to the year eighty. When the year eighty came, the Word of God was exalted and the manifestation of Him Whom God shall make manifest was proclaimed. AB01323

Through Our bounty shall be made manifest He Who shall appear after Him Whom God shall make manifest, then He Who shall appear after Him Whom God shall make manifest, unto the end that hath no end. Never shall My heart cease to rejoice in love of the mention of Him Who shall appear after Him Whom God shall make manifest.  BB00107

O people! If ye believe in Him Whom God shall make manifest with clear signs, then shall ye confirm that for which ye wait. Otherwise ye shall be separated and shall find no command save that God shall manifest Me and through Me shall the Resurrection come to pass; then on that Day shall ye remember, if ye remember.  BB00004

Should you attain unto Him Whom God shall make manifest, then stand before God and seek none other, and enter not the stations which thou wert commanded. And if before that time, then attain unto the Point if thou art able, and if not, then unto the stations of the Living if thou canst reach them, and recite that prayer.   BB00213

O people of the Bayan! You are tested like those given the Qur'an. Have mercy on yourselves! You will find yourselves one day clinging to sayings of the witnesses of the Bayan, while God manifests His Cause with clear signs as you wander in search of a drop of living waters, like camels roaming hoping to possess something.  BB00003

And after Him, should God manifest One like unto Him, that would be a proof and it would end with Him. Otherwise the Cause is in the hands of the martyrs of the Bayan, who transgress not the bounds of what hath been revealed in the Bayan until the Day when He Whom God shall make manifest appeareth in the next Resurrection.   BB00523

Verily at this time, and before this time, and after this time, He Whom God shall make manifest is alive with God, and none knows the throne upon which He is established save Him. When God causes Him to speak, then all shall know. He is the Truth, there is no God but Him. He gives life and causes death, and unto Him do all turn.  BB00004

God verily giveth you glad tidings of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Will ye not, then, rejoice? Say: God verily giveth you glad tidings of the glory of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Will ye not, then, rejoice? Say: God verily giveth you glad tidings of the beauty of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Will ye not, then, rejoice?  BB00003

Until the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, your deeds are attributed to God, even were ye to attain the highest degrees of piety. Then if ye follow not Him Whom God shall make manifest from His presence, may your compulsion be changed to mercy from God's presence that ye may not grieve on the Day of Resurrection as champions of truth.  BB00003

And whatsoever thou seest in all the circles of the temples is the mention of Him Whom God shall make manifest, exalted be His mention. And verily on the day of His manifestation, that which returneth unto Him is of the temples of truth and the circles of glory, and that which returneth not unto Him - its fruit of existence hath indeed been wasted.   BB00305

When ye hear of a command from Him, say not Nay except that ye say God is greater than all things, and all creation belongeth to Him, and all worship Him. For on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, ye shall see yourselves like unto the proud ones, and ye shall behold Him with a countenance before which all, out of awe, prostrate themselves.  BB00004

Thou hast never sent a Messenger, nor revealed a Book, nor supported the people of the religion of God except for Him Whom Thou shalt manifest on the Day of Resurrection through Thy signs. Verily, Thou hast never revealed any decree in any Manifestation except that Thou didst intend to exalt the Manifestation of Thyself in the subsequent Revelation.  BB00308

This is the Book from God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, unto Him Whom God shall make manifest. Bear thou witness that there is no God but I, the Mighty, the Well-Beloved. I have created all things, both before and after, that they may believe in Thee on the day of Thy manifestation, and in Thy signs, that they may be among the guided ones.  BB00005

Verily Thou, and numbers, and the First One, and all that God, exalted be His glory, hath reckoned, God hath made but as a seal upon the hand of Him Whom God shall make manifest, exalted be His mention. He turneth it as He pleaseth, by whatsoever He pleaseth, for whatsoever He pleaseth. He is, in truth, the Help in Peril, the Most High, the Most Glorious.   BB00275

God will assuredly cause you all to return unto Him Whom God shall make manifest, if ye would turn back yourselves. This would be better for you than all your works in the Bayan, would ye but reflect a little. If ye return, if ye return unto Him Whom God shall make manifest, perchance He will forgive you your sins and pardon you and improve your deeds.  BB00003

Similarly, in certain books it is revealed: This is a Book from God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, to God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. This is why He states that whatever was revealed in the Bayan, in its primary reality the purpose was the latter Manifestation, and in lesser degree it relates to those who had a connection to the Tree of Truth.  BH00004

I counsel you concerning that which God hath created of Him Whom God shall make manifest. I bear witness unto the greatest of that which they attain, not unto that which they desire... And until the days of Him Whom God shall make manifest - and verily He is God, there is no bound to His attributes, and His are the bounds of God's qualities which they shall behold.  BB00033

Verily, he who awaits a Manifestation after Me shall be written in all places, that is, in the veil of the Temple and in the Temple itself, and By the power of His Manifestation, the All-Glorious, the Most Holy, Lord of the angels and the spirit and By His signs, the All-Glorious and the Most Holy, Lord of the angels and the spirit and Him Whom God shall make manifest.  A02490

The Point of the Bayan moved only by My Name, breathed only in My remembrance, and spoke only in My praise. To this testifieth what was revealed by Him, and His own self beareth witness to what I say. And verily, at this moment, He liveth in this sublime horizon and declareth: "O Muhammad! Hearken unto the words of Him Who calleth thee unto God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds."   BH00425

O God! Do Thou make Thyself known on the Day of Resurrection through Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest, and grant us certitude and faith at the moment we hear, lest we be counted among the veiled ones. For Thou art the Best of those who show grace, Thou art the Most Generous of the generous ones, Thou art the Most Bountiful of the bountiful ones, and Thou art the Most Kind of the kind ones.  BB00003

We have verily nurtured all who are in the Bayan that they might desire none but Thee and be among the believers in that which is revealed unto thee. Nay, We have desired for all upon earth likewise. When those who are in the Bayan possess all that is on earth and are triumphant thereon, We shall see what appeareth in the kingdom by thy Lord's command, and all imagine they act for Thy good pleasure.  BB00003

If thou wishest to understand the glory of Him Whom God shall make manifest, imagine that all who are on earth have attained the utmost limits possible in their glory, such that no higher station could be conceived for their rank. Then if He Whom God shall make manifest should recognize Himself, even were He dwelling in the dust, at that very moment all who are on earth should prostrate themselves before Him.  BB00003

Verily He Whom God shall make manifest on the Day of Resurrection through His power is a sign from Him and a Word from His presence. Through Him doth God send down whatsoever He willeth and ordain whatsoever He desireth. God hath chosen Him from the heart of all possibilities for the station of His manifestation, and God hath accepted Him from among the essential realities of all beings for the station of His nurture.  BB00005

Know then, O My creation! I have created neither heaven with its loftiness, nor earth with its expanse, nor sea with its depths, nor mountain with its height, nor anything with its might, except for Him Whom We shall manifest. And naught is possessed of the power to withstand, except for Him Whom We shall make manifest on the Day of Resurrection through these My verses and My Being. Follow ye Him, for He, verily, is the Certain Truth.   BB00111

Therefore fear God, O all things, from the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, for ye know not whether this is He Whom God shall make manifest. Nay, even should He make Himself known unto you after His manifestation, then would ye hear and know. Therefore have mercy upon yourselves, that ye transgress not the bounds of the Bayan, and grieve not any soul, that this may return unto Him Whom God shall make manifest while ye know not.  BB00003

Verily on the Day of Resurrection if He Whom God shall make manifest does not say I am well-pleased with thee, all one's deeds shall be rendered null, as though one had performed nothing, for they shall possess no glory. But prior to the Day of His Manifestation, let all observe carefully the precepts of the Bayan. For thou desirest that He Who beholdeth thee should be pleased with thee - He Who knoweth thee while thou knowest Him not.  BB00003

None besides Him Whom God shall make manifest can raise up a single soul from the grave of self, if ye be observers of God's Cause. By what means were the Letters of the Bayan honored in God's Book? Say: By God's command, from the Point of the Bayan. Say: Thus do ye witness by God's command from Him Whom God shall make manifest. Say: Verily, He Whom God shall make manifest shall raise up one of the Bayan from whomsoever He wisheth among His chosen ones.  BB00003

Indeed My aim in planting the Tree of the Bayan hath been none other than to enable you to recognize Me. In truth I Myself am the first to bow down before God and to believe in Him. Therefore let not your recognition become fruitless, inasmuch as the Bayan, notwithstanding the sublimity of its station, beareth fealty to Him Whom God shall make manifest, and it is He Who beseemeth most to be acclaimed as the Seat of divine Reality, though indeed He is I and I am He.  BB00525

This is the recompense of the entire Bayan from God, and it sufficeth them. They should take pride in what God their Lord hath accepted from them. And should He write Nay, then verily all that they possess in their religion hath been concealed. And if the heaven of the Bayan be concealed within the self of anyone after the appearance of Him Whom God shall make manifest and the elevation of that which He revealeth, then verily thy very essence doth herald that Name.  BB00003

Send down, O my God, Thy blessings upon its letters, and upon whosoever hath believed in it, whether male or female, and hath prostrated before Thee in recognition of the loftiness of Thy glory, the sublimity of Thy exaltation, the inviolability of Thy independence, and the joy of Thine inaccessibility. Grant me, O my God, and all who are in the Bayan, to attain unto His presence, and make, O my God, the fruit of all that Thou hast ordained to be realized on the day of meeting Him.   BB00095

I bear witness concerning Him Whom Thou shalt manifest on the Day of Resurrection through Thy signs, that He is the Sign of Thine own Self, wherein naught is seen but Thee, and the Countenance of Thine Essence, which pointeth to none but Thee. Thou art the First in Him, and there is no first before Thee; Thou art the Last in Him, and there is no last after Thee; Thou art the Manifest in Him, and there is none manifest above Thee; and Thou art the Hidden in Him, and there is none hidden except Thee.   BB00168

And is there any greater matter than Him Whom God shall make manifest, if ye did but know! Take ye your name; and if ye believe not therein, ye shall come to know the way God hath taken it.... Take ye all that behooveth you from God, your Lord, ere the angels of divine chastisement seize you while ye are unaware. And take ye those who believe not in Him Whom God shall make manifest, who, when they hear mention of Him, arise not, nor present themselves before Him, nor prostrate themselves as ye are able.  BB00003

O ye the created beings of the Bayan! We verily have made you recognize the uttermost excellence of your existence which lieth in the word of your Lord, that ye may not be veiled from Him Whom God shall assuredly make manifest, in truth, in the Day of Resurrection. For verily all that ye speak is a mere image of His revealed word within your hearts, whereas that which He proclaimeth is what God hath testified unto Himself, that, verily there is none other God but Him, the Omnipotent, the Self-Subsisting.  BB00001

Believe in how God maketh Himself known unto you in truth, and receive sustenance from what He sendeth down unto you from His presence. Blessed are they who seek sustenance in what is sent down from their Lord - these are they who are guided. If on the day of His manifestation ye seek sustenance from what ye received before, it shall not suffice you apart from your Lord's provision. But if ye receive sustenance from what He sendeth down unto you from His presence, then shall it suffice you apart from all provision, O ye who perceive Him.   BB00118

And the earth of His love in God was cleft asunder for the manifestation of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Thus when there reaches you from the ray of that Name what shall hold fast your heart - for God is exalted above any who would indicate His creative essence by what pertains to His luminous glory, His supreme dominion, and His transcendent power - verily all wherewith He has sanctified His Self and revealed in the Book, or what is possible or can be named, He revealed not for the creatures to know Him Whom God shall make manifest and the paths of their servitude to God through Him.  BB00003

I beseech Thee therefore, O my God, on this night, by the power wherewith Thou hast empowered it, by the might wherewith Thou hast endowed it, by the self-subsistence wherewith Thou hast established it, by the sanctity wherewith Thou hast hallowed it, and by the pre-existence wherewith Thou hast preordained it, that Thou send Thy blessings upon the Primal Unity and upon Him Who is Thine alone - there is no God but Thee - in the Bayan, and that Thou raise up in it One Who shall cause all on earth and all things to enter that Most Great, Most Great, Most Great, Most Great, Most Great Paradise   BB00099

Similarly His Holiness the Bab thought of and wrote about 'Him whom God shall manifest.' He made this fact the central point of his teachings and repeatedly emphasized it in all his utterances. The acceptance of every good deed he made dependent upon the Will of the Promised One. He rent asunder all the veils and coverings and broke all the idols of superstitions. He did not make His manifestation conditional upon the fulfillment of certain tokens or conditions or signs. The Bab removed all the hindran[ces] and difficulties and prepared the souls for the thrones of the Appearance of the Supreme Epiphany.  ABU0638

The companions of Him Whom God shall make manifest shall assuredly mock those who have been given the Bayan, seeing them at the height of their piety seeking God's good pleasure while remaining veiled from God Who created them and from His good pleasure, yet thinking they do good.  BB00003

Having understood this, know thou the measure of His Revelation, for at the time of His appearance, if thou shouldst not spend even a mustard seed, thou wouldst still possess what thou hast done to earn God's good-pleasure, for He Whom God shall make manifest, exalted be His mention, shall send down unto thee a verse wherein is contained His good-pleasure with thee, which is the ultimate fruit of thy deeds and the final purpose that returneth unto thee in thy life. Therefore bear thou witness that His Revelation hath no equal in glory, and whosoever believeth in Him, it is as though he hath believed in God throughout all the worlds of Command and Creation.  BB00078

O my God! Do Thou send Thy blessings upon Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection with all Thy glory of which Thou art cognizant, then with all Thy majesty of which Thou art cognizant, then with all Thy beauty of which Thou art cognizant, then with all Thy grandeur of which Thou art cognizant  BB00679

The glory of Him Whom God shall make manifest is immeasurably above every other glory, and His majesty is far above every other majesty. His beauty excelleth every other embodiment of beauty, and His grandeur immensely exceedeth every other manifestation of grandeur. Every light paleth before the radiance of His light, and every other exponent of mercy falleth short before the tokens of His mercy. Every other perfection is as naught in face of His consummate perfection, and every other display of might is as nothing before His absolute might. His names are superior to all other names. His good-pleasure taketh precedence over any other expression of good-pleasure. His preeminent exaltation is far above the reach of every other symbol of exaltation. The splendor of His appearance far surpasseth that of any other appearance. His divine concealment is far more profound than any other concealment. His loftiness is immeasurably above every other loftiness. His gracious favor is unequaled by any other evidence of favor. His power transcendeth every power. His sovereignty is invincible in the face of every other sovereignty. His celestial dominion is exalted far above every other dominion. His knowledge pervadeth all created things, and His consummate power extendeth over all beings. BB00589

He states that in the Manifestation of "Him Whom God shall make manifest" you should not be veiled by a Vahid-i-Bayani - and the Vahid-i-Bayani refers to the Bab Himself and the eighteen Letters of the Living. Similarly He states not to be veiled by what was revealed in the Bayan.   AB01676

Praise be to God that the Exalted One, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, left no veil and demolished the barriers. The entire Bayan openly points to Him Whom God shall make manifest, and all matters are conditional upon and dependent on the confirmation of that Pure Being. He says: 'Beware, beware lest thou be veiled by the Vahid of the Bayan, for it is as creation before Him. Beware, beware lest thou be veiled by what was revealed in the Bayan.'   AB01418

There are two matters which in the Most Great Exposition stand above all else: first, the mention of the Divine Manifestations and the dawning-places of the Suns of Eternity; and second, the divine laws and ordinances. As to the first, which is the most important, most exalted and most evident - it is mentioned throughout all the pages that He counseled the Letters, the Mirrors, and all people, both high and low, that should a Manifestation appear and make a claim, they must not remain veiled by what they possess, and thus be deprived of that manifest Beauty.  BH11688

The Bab wrote another book, called the Beyan, which is divided into nineteen vahids (unities) of nineteen babs (chapters) each. In this book he mentioned Baha'o'llah by the name of "Him whom God will manifest," and one of his commands was "If any soul should displease another he must give nineteen drachmas of diamonds as atonement. He believed this would train people in such wise as to hinder them from injuring the feelings of "Him whom God will manifest," when he should appear. In a word, every chapter culminates in the mention of "Him whom God will manifest."  ABU0327

He educated a large multitude through divine knowledge and exerted a marvelous influence upon the thoughts, morals, customs and conditions of the Persians. He announced to all His followers the glad tidings of the manifestation of the Sun of Baha and prepared them to believe and be assured.  AB01889

By God! The Primal Point took the Covenant of My Being before His own Covenant, and was speaking in My Name and heralding My Revelation and was submissive unto My firm and mighty Command.  BH11892

Those are they who understand, whether they know anything or not, for the fruit of understanding and comprehension in the Book of God is that the servant should know God and act according to His good-pleasure. You cannot know God and His good-pleasure except by knowing Him Whom God shall make manifest and His good-pleasure. This is the primordial mystery for all the worlds.  BB00003


The Promised One is My Own Self, and were He not My Own Self, by God, He would still circle round Me, and that which hath appeared from Me is My proof, My testimony, and My evidence. Naught was revealed in the Bayan save mention of Me, and all that was ordained therein was held within the grasp of My power, as attesteth all that was sent down aforetime unto 'Ali from One mighty and beauteous.   BH00555

In the thirteenth chapter of the second Vahid of the Bayan He says, exalted be His glory, the gist of this chapter is that no questions are permitted concerning Him Whom God shall make manifest except about that which befits His station, for His station is the pure manifestation itself, such that even the essence of manifestation in the essence of manifestation appears in His shadow. Despite this clear and evident command, now observe what the people of the Bayan have said and done and what questions they have asked. O people! Fear God and do not invalidate the truth through your own imaginings. Cast aside that to which you cling and turn unto Him. Verily He is the Forgiver, the Merciful.  BH00095

The Exalted One - may the spirit of all who are in the kingdom of Command and Creation be a sacrifice unto Him - proclaims with the most elevated call, His word, exalted and mighty: "I have written a gem concerning His remembrance: He shall not be known through My allusions, nor through what is mentioned in the Bayan." Do the people of the Bayan consider these words, which flowed from the lips of the Primal Point's Will - may the spirit of all else be a sacrifice unto Him - to be false or true? If, God forbid, they deem it false, then no further word remains. And if they accept it as true, what then are these words and these objections? Well done to the people of the Bayan! How firmly they have girded their loins to block the gates of divine bounties and how ready they are to prevent His mercy!  BH00095

The Herald, that is the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - during the days of His journey to Maku, outwardly concealed from all, attained the honor of Our presence, and Quddus - upon him be My glory and loving-kindness - attained repeatedly. During the journey to the Land of Kha We specifically summoned him, and for numbered months he attained Our presence. The Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - named both him and the Most Great Gate as the First and the Last, and likewise interpreted them as the First to come and the Last to go, giving each the glad-tidings of this Revelation, and specifically saying to Sayyah - upon him be My glory - "Go forth, that thou mayest find."  BH00009
