
We pray but God bestows healing.  ABU2746

for hearts become ill just as bodies become ill   BB00580

For guidance is the medicine of the spirit and the cause of spiritual victories - it is healing for the soul and a remedy of joy and delight for the heart. When wisdom shines with spiritual radiance it becomes guidance, and when its lights beam upon the body it becomes medicine. Therefore, one who combines these two qualities and possesses these two virtues - which in essence are one reality but appear as two realities in relation to the spiritual and physical worlds - is a perfect person.  AB06886

We mentioned, in connection with the question of spiritual medicine and healing, how illnesses can be cured through spiritual powers. Now we will speak of material healing. The science of medicine is still in its infancy and has not yet reached maturity. But when it reaches that stage, treatments will be administered with things that are not repulsive to the senses of taste and smell, that is, through foods, fruits, and plants that have an agreeable taste and a pleasant smell.  AB00646

Praise be to God that thou has two powers: one to undertake physical healing and the other spiritual healing. Matters related to man's spirit have a great effect on his bodily condition.  AB10015

The human body is composed of numerous elements according to a particular state of equilibrium. So long as this equilibrium is maintained, man is preserved from sickness, but should this fundamental balance, which is the central requirement of a sound constitution, be upset, the constitution will be disrupted and illnesses will supervene. For instance, if there is a deficiency in one of the component parts of the body and a surfeit of another, the state of equilibrium is disturbed and illness occurs.  AB00646


spiritual health is conducive to physical health  AB08834

become the cause of healing for every ailing heart  AB11787

he heals ills and sickness by the touch of his hand  AB02456

The physician heals others while he himself is sick.  AB08086

Every disease hath its remedy and every pain its cure  AB10016

They say that Hippocrates was the first person who undertook to systematize medicine and prepared compound medicines and elixirs, and recorded and documented the traditional and transmitted treatments. However, that medicine has progressed many thousands of times until now it has reached such a degree that nothing remains but bewilderment and confusion, for determining the gradations of temperaments and discovering and explaining atmospheric conditions and matching them with medicines is a very difficult problem, and every physician's foot is stuck in the mud. For example, when one disease overtakes two people, one treatment suits this one and another medicine that one. In any case, the point is that no physician can yet definitively judge that this theriac will certainly benefit this patient. Therefore, come and be a spiritual physician so that you may observe with certainty that the divine theriac and the greatest heavenly medicine are the cure for spiritual diseases and the means of deliverance from spiritual perils and ills, that you may be freed from doubt and uncertainty and enter the kingdom of certitude. AB04347

My health became impaired in Paris; the nervous fever is severe.  AB08703


When the material world and the divine world are well co-related, when the hearts become heavenly and the aspirations grow pure and divine, perfect connection shall take place. Then shall this power produce a perfect manifestation. Physical and spiritual diseases will then receive absolute healing.  AB09100

He who is filled with the love of the Glory (of God) and forgets all things, the Holy Spirit will be heard from his lips and the spirit of life will fill his heart, the light of the sign will shine forth from his face, the words will issue from his mouth in strands of pearls, and all sickness and disease will be healed by the laying on of his hands.
all sickness and disease will be healed by the laying on of his hands  AB11119

The search for alchemy has brought into being thousands of useful medicines   ABU3274

recreation which may improve the bodily powers, as exercise, is desirable.  ABU3354

but the healing of soul and heart, even body, is in turning to the Abha Kingdom   AB04974

Let us be a remedy for every ill and a healing balm for every wound of heart and soul.  AB12275

be thou assured of healing from every ailment through the power of the Spirit from God  AB08352

Happiness has a direct influence in preserving our health while being upset causes illness.  ABU2148



True healing is the healing of hearts and the treatment of souls, for through it everlasting health is attained  AB09544

view every illness as a purification and consider that in each illness there lies the blessing of solitude  ABU2948

The decisive command of God is that the sick must consult a skilled physician and act upon whatever he prescribes.  BH01799

All these ailments will pass away and you will receive perfect physical and spiritual health. I will guarantee it.  ABU0930

Medical science is only in its infancy, yet it has shown that our natural diet is that which grows out of the ground.  ABU3261

when I came to 'Akka, it was prescribed for me to go to the sea everyday and this was not possible in Yarkih.  AB09047

Man must not imagine disease but must ever trust God. If a man thinks too much of his health, he will become afflicted.   ABU0589

this is He Who quenches thirst from the spring of life, and this is He Who healeth the sick with the antidote of salvation  AB03051

The Baha'i Cause is the fountain of Job. Whosoever enters in it will become freed from all the moral and spiritual diseases.  ABU2016

Our Lord spoke of the Druses who never drink wine or smoked, and in consequence of this, many diseases were quite unknown to them.  ABU2766

but I am fearful of the effects of these high buildings and such densely populated cities; these are not good for the public health  ABU3472

Abdul-Baha spoke of the Druzes who never drank wine or smoked, and in consequence of this, many diseases were quite unknown to them.  ABU2199

Let them also study whatever will nurture the health of the body and its physical soundness, and how to guard their children from disease.   AB03742

When the Doctor gives a sick person quinine, which is a very bitter medicine, it is not because he wishes to do ill to the sick man, but to destroy his disease.  ABU1043

For every patient Thou hast ordained a remedy, and for every ailment Thou hast prescribed a cure. To one Thou givest a divine elixir, to another a merciful antidote.  AB09934

To look after the sick is one of the greatest duties. Every soul who becomes sick, the other friends should certainly offer the life (of service) in the utmost kindness.   AB00587

Whenever sickness prevails and health is disturbed, seek the counsel of a competent physician. Protection of one's well-being and health is repeatedly enjoined in the Qur'an.  ABU1160

The health of the body of this world is ruined and its illness is chronic and complete. The skilled and choice Physician is indispensable and the real and true remedy is needed.  AB10235

There is spiritual healing and there is also material healing. Unless these two work together a cure is impossible. The material element is medicine; spiritual healing is of God.  ABU3230

When physical physicians diagnose an illness, the treatment becomes easy and the physician becomes very hopeful. But spiritual diseases, even when diagnosed, are difficult to treat.  AB08789

There is no doubt that music has therapeutic effect over the body. The ancient physicians healed many sicknesses with music. Some of the ailments ware healed by treating trough music.  ABU2123

You are the unfailing remedy for the incurable pain of humanity and the swift cure for the disordered constitution of the horizons. Ere long you shall become physicians to the helpless  AB12560

When will the physicians learn to treat by proper diet? ... I treat myself always by diet. Yesterday I treated myself with this butter. Today it was not necessary, so I did not eat it.   ABU1054

It is incumbent upon everyone to seek medical treatment and to follow the doctor's instructions, for this is in compliance with the divine ordinance, but, in reality, He Who giveth healing is God.  AB11479

But you should nurse the sick ones, for it is one of the greatest services to the human world; especially while nursing them recite the Most Great Name and read the all-sufficient prayer for healing.  AB07511

Thou hast applied balm to wounded hearts and bestowed healing upon the grievously ill - that is, thou hast found a remedy for every spiritual patient and sought the supreme antidote for every afflicted soul.   AB05266

One must certainly seek physical health for spiritual health, that is, to serve the Cause of God. Otherwise what result has health? Eventually health will decline and one will pass from this world to the next.  AB01683

It is impossible to study medicine in Iran, since they teach [traditional] Iranian medicine, which is obsolete. It is the modern techniques of medicine that must be acquired. For that purpose, Europe is better.   ABU2232

The physician's joy and delight is in healing the sick, and the teacher's happiness and success is in the progress of the students in school. Each of the friends must be a knowing physician and a skilled healer.   AB03654

God is their physician, and their illnesses are far fewer than those of humans. But medicine is among the legitimate sciences, it is among the noble sciences. God created medicine for the preservation of mankind...  ABU0357

Although ill health is one of the unavoidable conditions of man, truly it is hard to bear. The bounty of good health is the greatest of all gifts. I beseech God that complete healing and perfect health may be attained.  AB11482

As in this Dispensation consultation with expert doctors is highly advisable and acting in accordance with their prescriptions obligatory, it is well for her to undergo an operation if deemed necessary by such doctors.   ABU3360

"There is a substance in the skin of the fruit which aids digestion. For instance in the skin of the grape there is an element which helps in digesting the grape. Of course the skin is hard, the same as with this date."  ABU0934

"But purely physical ills, such as a broken bone or a wound from a weapon, must be healed by physical remedies. God gives us such remedies in the natural world, even as He supplies our physical needs by physical means."   ABU2421

No treatment is better for the sick than spiritual joy and delight, and joy and gladness are confined to divine glad-tidings. This is a remedy for every ailment, a cure for every sick one, and a quenching for every thirst.  AB08686

The body of the world is sick and the form of creation is ailing, while skilled physicians are considered worthless and despised by the patients. These patients flee from the physicians, and these sufferers are incurable.   AB06353

One must obey the command of God and submit to medical opinion. Thus your journey was undertaken in obedience to God's command and not for the sake of healing, since healing is in the hand of God, not in the hand of doctors.  AB09033

O thou loyal servant of God and thou spiritual healer of man! Whensoever thou dost attend a patient, turn thy face toward the Lord of the heavenly Kingdom, ask the Holy Spirit to come to thine aid, then heal thou the sickness.   AB03123

One must obey the command of God and submit to medical opinion. Thus, thou hast undertaken this journey to comply with His command and not for the sake of healing, since healing is in the hand of God, not in the hand of doctors.  AB09033

strive until you also gain complete proficiency in spiritual healing. If you succeed in attaining this station, you will surpass Plato and become even more renowned throughout the horizons, for two gifts will be combined in you   AB02671

Illnesses and diseases are of two kinds: physical and spiritual. For bodily ailments, the cure lies in the pharmacy of earthly physicians, while for spiritual maladies and afflictions, the remedy is found in the divine dispensary.  AB04357

I beg of God to assist her in that which will enable her to become a healer of the spirit and a minister to the spiritually sick; and that she may, day by day, deepen thy conviction, that thine assurance and trust in God may grow.  AB04042

This spiritual medicine is established and enduring, its influence everlasting and its gift heavenly. And if you hasten to London to perfect physical medicine, let your purpose be to spread spiritual medicine in that northern clime  AB03339

Continue in healing hearts and bodies and seek healing for sick persons by turning unto the Supreme Kingdom and by setting the heart upon obtaining healing through the power of the Greatest Name and by the spirit of the love of God.  AB04917

In Persia the Arabs have no doctors. All the people submit to God. There are no physicians, nor remedies. When a person gets sick he eats barley soup. When he has a fever he eats dates. This material health is of no great importance.  ABU3445

Therefore thou shouldst also accept physical remedies inasmuch as these too have come from the mercy and favour of God, Who hath revealed and made manifest medical science so that His servants may profit from this kind of treatment also.  AB03722

For instance, they must say, "Since the Blessed Beauty has willed that I be a servant of the world of humanity, then I will serve this patient, remedy his ills, sooth his pains, treat his injuries, and give him all the comfort he needs."   ABU0797

From this three-year journey and endless hardships and difficulties, Abdul-Baha's physical powers have been completely depleted - it is as if the limbs have fallen apart from each other. Praise be to God, these days the body is also better.   AB12854

O physician of souls! Direct your blessed thoughts somewhat toward the healing of hearts, and become a spiritual physician...At that time, both spiritual and physical healing will be attained, and health of body and soul will both be realized.  AB07486

Be assured that if you act according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah and carry out the divine counsels and are raised up with heavenly characteristics, you will become a physician of body and soul and heal both physical and spiritual diseases.   AB04067

For the physician, the first qualifications are: Good intentions, trustworthiness, tenderness, sympathy for the sick, truthfulness, integrity, and the fear of the Lord. With life and heart strive thou to be both a spiritual and physical physician.  AB08461

by which all sorrow will be turned into joy and all disease will be turned into health, and by which every sick, afflicted, unfortunate and constrained one may be healed, to suffice to heal this weary, sick-worn one of the seen and the unseen disease.  BH07997

"I say to you, if you have a mental ailment, it can be cured by thought. If you have a physical ailment or a broken bone, I would say to you, 'quickly send for a doctor.' Earthly trouble can be cured only by earthly means and has not to do with God."   ABU0526

Indeed, all humanity is endangered by diverse ailments and maladies, yet the remedy prescribed by the divine Skilled Physician is not heeded. Therefore, unskilled physicians are now holding sway, while they themselves are afflicted with incurable ailments.  AB01686

You have permission to practice medicine, but on condition that you use gentle, mild remedies and that when administering them to the patient you turn to the Divine Threshold and with utmost sincerity of heart seek healing, and deal gently with the patient.  AB04676

Consider how much trouble it is to cure a single patient, and yet these governments slaughter millions and millions. Is it not true that you exert great efforts to heal just one sick person? Indeed, we save one by one, and they annihilate ranks upon ranks.   ABU1669

You understand healing. You understand healing! You know that many diseases can be cured through simple medicines and remedies and by suggestions to the patients, but when there is an abscess on the hand you must cut it out and clean it so that it will heal. [He demonstrated with His hands.] You understand there is spiritual healing and material healing, and unless these two work together, a cure is impossible. The material healing is surgery and medicine, and the spiritual healing is of God.  ABU2881

The treatment of bodies, drawing upon the outpourings of the All-Merciful and the confirmations of the Mighty, All-Knowing, will be realized for thee when thou art so attracted to God that thou givest spirit to spirits and life to hearts in this world of forms.  AB02838


I beseech God, glorified and exalted be He, to assist thee with a penetrating heavenly power that influences the realities of things, to grant thee that which thou lovest and with which thou art well-pleased, and to heal thee from every pain, ailment and disease  AB11390

Today severe illnesses and various ailments and maladies have overtaken the spiritual temples and hearts and souls of human beings. Therefore, with the help and favor of the Ancient Beauty, skilled physicians must treat them with the most great universal remedy.   AB06251

Concerning the Tablet beginning "O 'Ali, O Faithful One!" about which thou hadst written - this Tablet is for healing from illness. When seeking healing for a sick person, it should be chanted with the utmost attention, mindfulness and concentration in a sweet melody.  AB04716


Therefore, treat thou the sick with both powers. Spiritual feelings have a surprising effect on healing nervous ailments. Try thou this: Grant thou healing through the Holy Breaths, and cure thou the sick ones, and become a means of treatment for the afflicted ones.  AB10015

O Physician of all heart's ailments! Heal spiritual maladies with divine glances, and cure wounds of the self with holy mysteries and rapturous glances. Remedy the sicknesses of separation with cups of sweet beverage. Apply the salve of inner meanings to hidden pains.  BH08129

As to vivisection, however, it is productive of scientific discoveries and medical advantages which contribute to the welfare of all mankind. Perhaps through the vivisection of one animal discoveries may be made which will become the cause of life to a billion people.  AB01394

God is the Most Healing, above all healing. None in the heavens or on the earth or between them can withhold from the sovereign King His healing power. He createth what He willeth through His command. Verily He hath ever been the All-Healing, the Healer, the Most Healing.   BB00499

O spiritual physician! The weak body of the world is afflicted with a hundred thousand chronic, fatal diseases, and the ailing existence of humanity is exposed to great dangers, restless and suffering...it is time for healing and treatment, it is time for bandages and salves  AB06250

Happiness is a great healer to those who are ill. In the East it is the custom to call upon the patient often and meet him individually. The people in the East show the utmost kindness and compassion to the sick and suffering. This has greater effect than the remedy itself.   ABU0790

if a thousand healthy persons in the utmost freshness and refinement associate with one who has tuberculosis, the health of those thousand will have no effect on the tubercular one, while the disease of this tubercular person will in a short time affect those healthy bodies.  AB04274

For guidance is the medicine of the spirit and the cause of spiritual victories - it is healing for the soul and a remedy of joy and delight for the heart. When wisdom shines with spiritual radiance it becomes guidance, and when its lights beam upon the body it becomes medicine.   AB06886

GOD has so created man that from within he possesses all the power to recuperate and his work properly without the aid of stimulants. GOD has made the stomach like an animal, to go by itself, to do its work properly. Wine makes you overwork it, and then it will not digest properly.   ABU0941

Through the inculcation of a thorough knowledge of hygiene humanity must be freed from all manner of diseases and ailments. The parents must teach their children the laws of life and how to avoid evils and temptations. Thus may they grow into healthy and robust manhood and womanhood.  ABU1399

Thou shalt heal the diseases of spirits and hearts, and thou shalt raise a flag with such firmness and steadfastness the holy wavings of which shall be witnessed betwixt the heavens and earth forever more; spiritual ears will be perceived and everlasting restoration will be obtained   AB05280


O physician of souls! Direct your blessed thoughts somewhat toward the healing of hearts, and become a spiritual physician. Completely forget the body and physical matters...At that time, both spiritual and physical healing will be attained, and health of body and soul will both be realized.  AB07486

Thou shouldst endeavour to study the science of medicine. It is extremely useful and serveth as the greatest instrument for the dissemination of the Cause. It is absolutely imperative that thou acquire this bounty. Strive day and night that thou mayest become highly qualified in this science.  AB08637

Hence, "This is a refreshing water to wash and a drink" it is the divinely effulgence, compassionate blessings and inward revivals emanate from the reality of man from which whosoever seeketh profusion will be remedied from every severe sickness and will find relief of all serious contingents.  AB04562

There is but one power which heals--that is God. The state or condition through which the healing takes place is the condition of the heart. By some this state is reached through pills, powders, and physicians. By others through hygiene, fasting, and prayer. By others through direct perception.   ABU3345

make him certain in his heart that healing is in God's hand, not in the physicians' hands. Let him abandon the device for water analysis, for analyzing water causes doubt. The physicians' treatment is but a slight means having effect in the description of healing, not in the essence of healing.   AB00589


The renowned Plato was a physical physician and a mere human being, yet because he arose with great determination he became accepted throughout the horizons and famous in the world of ethics. Now you are under the shadow of the favors of the Lord of the Covenant and have well acquired physical medicine   AB02671

If one is fully cognizant of the reason for the incursion of disease and can determine the balance of elements, he can cure diseases by administering the food that can restore the normal level of the deficient element. In this way there will be no need for medicines and other difficulties will not arise.   ABU3275

Thou art He, O my God, through Whose names the sick are healed and the ailing are restored, and the thirsty are given drink, and the sore-vexed are tranquillized...Clothe him, then, O my God, by Thy grace, with the robe of well-being and health, and guard him, O my Beloved, from every affliction and disorder  BH04990

According to the explicit decree of Baha'u'llah one must not turn aside from the advice of a competent doctor. It is imperative to consult one even if the patient himself be a well-known and eminent physician. In short, the point is that you should maintain your health by consulting a highly-skilled physician.  AB11522

O Physician! Heal the sick, first through the remembrance of thy Lord, the Lord of the Day of Mutual Calling, then through that which We have ordained for the health of the constitutions of the servants. By My life! The physician who hath drunk the wine of My love - his visit is healing, his breath is mercy and hope.  BH01313

Also, the body of mankind suffers chronic diseases. The Lord of Grandeur hath therefore chosen a skilled, an all-powerful and inspired Physician in order to heal this body. From the point of view of the good health of the body of mankind, this is a great bounty. But alas! The people are ignorant and unaware of this.   AB12125

Treat the sick with divine glad-tidings and cure the ailing with the supreme elixir of the All-Merciful's joy. Nurse the ill with hope and promise, and strengthen the weak with divine gladness. No treatment is better for the sick than spiritual joy and delight, and joy and gladness are confined to divine glad-tidings.  AB08686

Human souls have become sick and afflicted. Apply the swift-acting remedy and bestow the divine elixir. Administer the sovereign antidote and offer the pure chalice, that every poisoned soul may, through this fragrant medicine, attain eternal health, and every deprived one may receive an abundant portion of this grace.   AB00069

I do not give any importance to physical health. The real health is spiritual and that is eternal. The spirit of man must become reinforced. This body will be decayed; this building no matter how solid its basis will be destroyed. Just think how J.P. Morgan travelled everywhere to get back his health but there was no result.   ABU1447


Looking after one's health is done with two intentions: 1st. Man may take good care of his body with the intention of satisfying his personal wishes. 2nd. Or he may look after his health with the good intention of serving humanity and of living long enough to discharge one's duty towards mankind. The latter is most commendable.   ABU2284

My spiritual health is always perfect. I enjoy an eternal health of the spirit. I hope all the people of the world will gain this celestial gift. You pray that the spiritual health of mankind may be improved daily; for there are many doctors who attend to the physical ailments of the people, but there are very few divine physicians.  ABU2126

Today the contingent world is a hospital, and all creation is ailing and sick. The friends of God are the divine physicians and heavenly healers. They must treat the patients and cure the ill with utmost kindness, for the maladies and ailments are spiritual - spiritual treatment and cure is needed, and the divine theriac is required.  AB03706


Especially if he is a sage and physician, his wisdom is greater, for he applies the supreme remedy and treats with the divine elixir. Sometimes he uses illness as a pretext to visit the sick, becomes their nurse, treats both body and soul, and applies an immediate cure. In short, this is true healing, this is wisdom, this is the gift.  AB02597

Just as when a physician gives bitter medicine to a patient, the patient protests and shouts that he does not want this bitter medicine and considers the physician an enemy, while the physician protects him - the patient complains and is not content. But this protection comes from love and the patient's complaints come from ignorance.  ABU0630

"Though thou art physically sick and ill, praise be to God thou art spiritually sound and healthy, nay rather, enjoying perfect health. This body is a mine of diseases and the seat of diverse ailments. However much it may be safeguarded, ultimately the hosts of maladies will prevail and illnesses and pains will break down this frame."   AB07554

There are a number of diseases which are psychological. They have to be treated according to suggestive therapeutics. Those diseases that are due to psychological neurosis, treat them according to psychological neurosis and suggestive therapeutics, and those that are due to material causes then you have to give them the material treatment.   ABU0060

Though extremely weak at night, in the morning complete rest, health and strength were attained. This immediate divine healing was from the infinite bounty. When I arose from my bed in the morning, I immediately began writing and speaking. No one would have thought such rapid healing possible - no medicine, no treatment, no favorable climate.   AB03011


When difficulties and complexities arise in diagnosing diseases and afflictions, turn with complete attention to the Lord of Lords so that thou mayest become a remover of sorrows, and sometimes persevere in reciting the prayers of the Blessed Beauty which have been revealed from the Supreme Pen for the healing of diseases, that health may be attained.  AB04856

God be praised, according to what we hear the climate in that land hath proved not unfavourable. It is to be hoped that out of the grace of the Blessed Beauty thy illness will be completely cured and thou wilt return in the best of health. We here, God be thanked, are all enjoying the best of health. I have been better lately, and sleeping well at night.   AB06498

If the sickness is of the body, a material remedy is needed, if of the soul, a spiritual remedy. If the heavenly benediction be upon us while we are being healed then only can we be made whole, for medicine is but the outward and visible means through which we obtain the heavenly healing. Unless the spirit be healed, the cure of the body is worth nothing.  ABU0899

Therefore, whenever I inquire about your health I mean your spiritual health. That is fraught with importance. To the same degree that the material life has no importance, the spiritual life is of supreme moment. Then the heart is purified, the spirit gladdened with the Good-News of the Kingdom and the realm of morality will become the delectable paradise.   ABU1455

O Trusted One among physicians! Divine medicine has pitched its tents in this plane of existence, and has driven its stakes in its expansive plains and heights. Beneath its supported pavilion sits its All-Merciful Christ and its conscientious Luqman, who have diagnosed the illness of the temple of the human world and have administered the greatest divine antidote  AB10250

Be a spiritual physician, become a heavenly doctor. Give the divine remedy to those sick in heart and soul, and guide the ailing ignorant ones to the divine hospital. Apply the tincture of the Abha Kingdom, use the antidote of the Supreme Concourse. Dispense freely the supreme theriac of divine virtues, and liberally bestow the greatest elixir of the love of God   AB04385

Bodily health is not important. What is more important is spiritual health which gives eternal pleasure and has everlasting effect. The more the body is cared for, the worse it becomes. Thus denial is preferable for the body. I took only a cup of milk today and I feel much better. Why should man undergo so much trouble and hardship merely for the purpose of eating?  ABU3003

Although physical ailments cause human distress, since the physical world is composed of different elements and the difference of elements leads to the occurrence of illness, this is therefore natural, for change and transformation are essential requirements of every contingent reality. But be assured that you will attain complete healing, spiritually and physically.   AB03451

When man becomes ill he should refer to a doctor, for he knows how to diagnose the illness. A good number of people in the Orient become afflicted with diseases, and the reason is that they do not refer to a doctor. For instance, these Arabs may have twenty children but only two or three will live; the others die, for when they become ill they do not refer to a doctor.  ABU0784

As the body will be cured from physical disease, in the same way the spirit will be cured of all spiritual diseases. A cure of physical disease is very easy, but the cure of spiritual disease is very difficult. If one has fever and you give him medicine, the fever will vanish; but if the spirit is afflicted with the disease of ignorance it is difficult to remove that disease.  AB01294

The healing that is by the power of the Holy Spirit needs no special concentration or contact. It is through the wish or desire, and the prayer of the Holy Person. The one who is sick may be in the East, and the healer in the West, and they may not have been acquainted with each other - but as soon as that Holy Person turns his heart to God and begins to pray the sick one is healed.  ABU2873

There have existed two classes of physicians in the world - divine physicians and natural physicians... Those physicians studied medicine in the divine school, therefore they diagnosed chronic diseases of human souls and even deadly illnesses of the world and prescribed treatments. Similarly, natural physicians came and underwent many hardships, nursed the sick, and treated physical ailments of the infirm.   AB01928

Due to lack of time to attend to the requirements of the patient regarding physician, medicine and nourishment, We have decided that he should return to 'Akka and rest there. We beseech God to adorn it with the ornament of healing and to change his illness into health. We beseech the Healer to deliver him from every ailment, sickness and disease. Verily, God is the Healer, the Sufficient, the All-Bountiful.   BH01486

Physical healing is achieved through herbs, electuaries, essences and antidotes, and is temporary. Eventually the patient becomes weary of this abode of sorrows and must one day take flight to the eternal realm. But spiritual healing and inner health and well-being are desired and beloved and the ultimate aspiration of those possessed of understanding hearts, for this is an eternal healing and everlasting life.   AB05736

Indeed, the station of both these is most exalted, for it hath been previously stated: "Knowledge of bodies and knowledge of religions," with knowledge of bodies being given precedence, for if health be lacking, memory becomes impaired and the faculty of understanding grows cold. But when health is attained, both the outward and inward senses remain firm in their respective stations and engaged in their service.   BH01095

But you send to your children every eatable things - the result is the over-filling of their stomachs with different kinds of food - thus causing them dyspepsia, constipation and other ills but my children are always in good health and seldom complain of any sickness. Therefore you see that my parsimony is backed up by hygienic and physiological considerations while your extravagant family expenses lead to troubles.  ABU1676

Illnesses which occur by reason of physical causes should be treated by doctors with medical remedies; those which are due to spiritual causes disappear through spiritual means. Thus an illness caused by affliction, fear, nervous impressions, will be healed more effectively by spiritual rather than by physical treatment. Thou shouldst give equal attention to spiritual treatments, for they produce marvellous effects.  AB03722

Once I called on a patient. He was suffering from insomnia beside his other trouble. He told me with a haggard and hollow-eyed expression of utter weariness: 'I wish to God I could sleep one hour, then open my eyes to feel its restoring effect, then die peacefully.' God answered his prayer. he slept for one hour after which he unshut his eyes, looked around with an air of utter relief and then passed beyond the Borderland.   ABU0862

Although for several years you have been a wanderer far from home and distant from your familiar homeland, yet praise be to God, you have studied medicine, the noblest of arts. When you return to Iran you will become a peerless physician and renowned doctor, for there are few persons like yourself in Iran who have studied medicine for several years in major colleges. Therefore, in the end all your efforts shall be compensated.  AB09213

"Are these people who claim to surpass the other Christian sects in charity and good deeds to be considered possessors of a special excellence...As to healing the ills of the body and caring for the sick and the poor. This is very good, but its effect or result is not a permanent one. For when a man is healed of one physical pain, another will sooner or later affect him; and finally as a result, bodily death will overtake him."  ABU1525

If physical health and vitality are expended in the path of the Kingdom, this is most acceptable and beloved. If they are expended for the benefit of all mankind, even though it be a physical benefit, and are the cause of good, this is also acceptable. However, if man's health and wellness are expended in the gratification of selfish desires, the life of the animal, and in evil pursuits, then illness, nay death, is preferable.   AB00567

The Prophet Job endured diseases, ailments and great tribulation until he plunged into the fountain of healing and was cured of an incurable malady. Without having to endure such affliction, tribulation and suffering, thou hast plunged into the true fountain of healing and hast attained eternal health. Thou hast found deliverance from every ailment and healing from every malady. This is everlasting health and eternal well-being.  AB08876

If thou wishest to heal nervous pains, turn with thy whole self unto the Supreme Horizon with thy heart free from all else save Him and with thy soul attracted by the Love of God. Then seek the confirmations of the spirit from the Kingdom of Abha, while touching the place of pains, with all love, affection and attraction. And after all these matters have been conformed with, be thou assured that, verily, healing will be attained.  AB10206

You are physicians of hearts and spirits, and doctors of bodies. Surely such beloved physicians are dear to heart and soul, and such wise ones are manifestations of the wisdom of the All-Merciful, for this title requires that one heal the pain of hearts and apply balm to wounded souls. Through the special grace and gift of the Lord, I hope that you will give swift cure to every patient and grant matchless remedy to every sufferer.  AB01651

Wisdom is the light of guidance, and the healing art is the antidote of the love of Baha. As much as thou canst, employ this divine medicine that thou mayest bestow eternal healing and effect an immediate cure...A particle of this remedy is the cure for every ailment and the healing of every breast. It bestoweth such healing that illness shall never follow, and such a medicine that it becometh the remedy for every incurable disease.  AB08041

Disease is of two kinds: (a) Material (b) Spiritual. For instance, a cut of the hand; if you pray for the cut to be healed, and do not stop it bleeding, you will not do much good, this needs a material remedy. Sometimes if the nervous system is paralyzed through fear, a spiritual remedy is necessary. Madness, incurable otherwise, can be cured through prayer, but an abscess cannot be cured by prayer alone. Extreme cases need prayer.   ABU2530

For instance if the brain is diseased and one becomes insane, but his hands and feet are all right... his head is diseased but his body is all right. One is suffering from cancer, every day the pain increases and it is worse than death, but his brain is all right. If they experiment on this suffering animal, and he should die, it will shorten his suffering. There are many diseases that can be discovered thru postmortem examination.   ABU0471

The narrators of tradition relate that the Luminary of Hijaz and the Sun of Yathrib, the Beauty of Muhammad - may the spirit of those drawn nigh be a sacrifice unto Him - declared: Knowledge is of two kinds: knowledge of bodies and knowledge of religions. In this authentic tradition there is a clear definition and description of medicine, for it is given precedence over religious knowledge, and no greater praise than this could exist.  AB00390

One day at three in the afternoon we were summoned. I had a severe fever. He said, You have a fever, and in a jesting tone added that fever was the fruit of this land - everyone who arrives must have a fever. Tea was served in His presence. I perspired profusely, such that my clothes were soaked. He said, Go change your clothes. You will not have fever again. During the nine months that we were blessed to be there, no illness befell me.  BHU0016

I will guarantee it. Be content. Let your heart be confident and assured that thru the bounty of Baha'o'llah everything will become pleasant for you. You must be assured. Know thou of a certainty. But you must turn your face wholly toward the kingdom of Abha, giving perfect attention; the same attention that Mary Magdalene had for His Holiness Christ. Be like her and I will assure you that you will get physical health and spiritual health.  ABU0930

Physical weakness is eliminated by small means. Within a few days in good air and with good food it is eliminated, but spiritual weakness is difficult. No matter what you do to strengthen it, it does not strengthen. Even in the human body, if minor organs experience a weakness, if an illness occurs and a weakness results, it is quickly eliminated, but if the principal organs experience a weakness, strengthening them is relatively difficult.   ABU2162

How many sick ones you treated with herbs and essences, and how many patients confined to bed you granted health and comfort through the power of elements and spirits! But this health does not endure and this comfort is not lasting or established. It appears for a few days like a mirage but in reality does not exist. And if you truly observe, physical treatments are merely palliative rather than curative, and health is temporary not permanent   AB01946

when a sick person exercises restraint and, on the doctor's advice, abstains from sweet foods and even takes bitter medicines that are unpleasant to the taste, while one who lacks restraint--that is, a heedless patient--shuns what is bitter and craves what is sweet, partaking of every delicacy, mixing honey and sugar with almonds and rock candy--in the end, the patient who showed restraint will be happy while the one who did not will be distressed  AB08142

This ailing world with its weakened body and feeble physique has fallen desperately sick and all its chronic maladies have become inveterate. There is no alternative now but to administer the one supreme panacea to relieve its ills and no other medicine left but the Most Great Elixir. This sovereign remedy is none other than the love of the Blessed Beauty and His Sacred Dispensation ordained by the One True God for it will speedily restore true health.  AB06172

The science of medicine hath been, in the sight of God, the most distinguished and exalted of all sciences. Indeed, it is through His leave the preserver of human bodies from diverse ailments. Therefore, whosoever engageth in and acquireth this noble science is well-pleasing in the sight of God. Verily, the reward of him who healeth the servants is with God, the Lord of the worlds. And whatsoever he receiveth from the people is lawful and pure unto him.   BH06211

A detailed explanation of this matter was provided earlier. If you have not fully grasped it, we will repeat it so that you may. Know that there are four kinds of treatment and healing without medicine. Two are due to material causes and two to spiritual ones. As to the two material kinds, one is due to the fact that in reality both health and sickness are contagious. The contagiousness of disease is rapid and violent, whereas that of health is exceedingly slow and weak.  AB00380

True healing is the healing of hearts and the treatment of souls, for through it everlasting health is attained and the face becomes flushed with the heat of love for the Most Glorious Beauty. Through it heavenly life is made possible and immortality in the Most Glorious Kingdom is achieved. Therefore, O physician, open wide the court of divine healing and establish a dispensary with the theriac of guidance. Take the pulse of creation and heal the ailing form of the world.  AB09544


O people! Eat not save when hungry, and drink not after retiring to sleep. Exercise in the open air strengthens the body's members, while eating to excess is a grave calamity. Abandon not treatment when it is needed, but cease it when health is restored. Begin not a meal until digestion is complete, and eat not before thorough mastication. Treat an ailment first through diet, before resorting to medicine. When thou hast found a simple remedy, turn not to compound medicines.  BH01313

The body of contingent being has become afflicted with severe diseases, chronic ailments, contagious illnesses and continuous fever...He compounded elements of hidden jewels and stored medicines, bestowed the most great healing theriac, and granted the most perfect antidote. He prepared spiritual compounds and arranged remedies from divine pearls and rubies. He prescribed perspiration-inducing medicines, sedatives and solvents from the jewels of unity and the essences of detachment...   AB02734

Set aside medicine when in good health, but take it when needed. When two contrary foods are served, mix them not but be content with one. Begin with the light food before the heavy, and with liquid before solid. The introduction of food upon food is dangerous - be thou cautious of this. Eating little in the morning is as a light unto the body. Abandon harmful habits, for they are a calamity unto mankind. Meet illnesses with their remedies - this utterance is the decisive word in this regard.  BH01313

As to the meaning of that which is written in the Tablets: "I have chosen for thee whatsoever is in the heaven and the earth", this signifieth those things which are in accordance with the divine purpose and not the things which are harmful. For instance, one of the existing things is poison. Can we say that poison must be used as it hath been created by God? Nevertheless, intoxicating liquor, if prescribed by a physician for the patient and if its use is absolutely necessary, then it is permissible.  AB02266

Diseases are of two kinds. There are some which are due to material cause, and such diseases should be treated according to material methods. For instance, supposing there shall be some sort of process in the liver that is tissue pathology. Its treatment should be entirely physical. On the other hand, another disease may be spiritual in character. For example, fear is a nervous disease resulting not from any material cause. It is psychological neurosis. That sort of disease has to be treated spiritually.   ABU0060

O physician! Seek thou the wisdom of spiritual healers and the medicine of the Baha'is. Treat the sick with divine glad-tidings, and heal the ailing with the supreme elixir of the All-Merciful's joy. Nurse the patient with hope and good news, and strengthen the weak with divine gladness. No treatment is better for the sick than spiritual joy and delight, and joy and happiness are confined to divine glad-tidings. This is a remedy for every ill, a healing for every ailment, and a quenching for every thirst.  AB08686



During treatment, turn thy thoughts to the Blessed Beauty and carry out whatever is inspired in thy heart. Treat the patients with divine joy and spiritual delight. Give the suffering ones the remedy of the Greatest Glad-Tidings, and bestow upon the wounded the salve of supreme bounty. When thou attendest any patient's bedside, grant joy and delight and gladness, and through spiritual power bestow divine attractions. This merciful breath is the bestower of life to decayed bones and the reviver of the spirit of every sick and ailing one.  AB09922


His Holiness Job endured diseases, ailments and great affliction until he plunged into the healing spring and was cured of his incurable malady. Thou, without bearing such tribulation, affliction and illness, hast plunged into the true healing spring and attained eternal health. Thou hast found deliverance from every ailment and healing from every malady. This is everlasting health and eternal well-being.  AB08876

I wanted you to stay here and practice medicine since all the doctors have been taken away and a vast field for practice is available. I once asked a British physician, "Why do you not practice medicine in your own country?" He responded, "I do not have the same opportunities for practice. Several doctors must gather and consult for every surgery. Then they closely scrutinize to see if the primary physician has committed an error or not. There are also many other obstructions. But here I perform twenty surgeries every day [without any interventions]."   ABU0801

Once during my early childhood I became very sick. At the time, my family lived in Teheran. I was lying in bed in a semi-conscious state. After much consultation the Doctors agreed upon a course of "musical treatment." Before sunset they brought into my room an old man with a very long beard. He carried under his 'Aba' a guitar. He sat near my bed and immediately began to play and sing. All through the night he played and sang, now in high, resonant voice and again in sweet, soft strains. My soul was charmed with his music. In the morning I felt better.  ABU0742

Verily, I beseech the Lord of Hosts to increase thy faith each day over that of the previous day, to confirm thee through His Holy Spirit, to give thee capacity to partake of the lights of knowledge and wisdom, to make thee a herald of the Covenant in those regions, and to instruct thee in that which thou knowest not; so that thou mayest become a physician for bodies as well as souls, to heal bodies with the medicines which are useful and beneficial for physical (sickness), and to cure hearts and souls with that antidote which quickeneth hearts and souls.  AB01536

In treating the poor, the weak, the needy and the strangers, provide blessed healing and guide them to health and wellbeing. And in spiritual healing and guidance of human souls, breathe an effective breath - become a guide to every lost one, and free every prisoner of diseases of heart and soul from the darkness and bondage of the world of nature. Cast upon them rays of light and apply the greatest antidote, so that through destined grace you may provide immediate remedy to every deprived poisoned soul and become an easy cure for the incurable pain of error.   AB02052

Thou hast inquired about the cure for the plague. The generality of the physicians are of the opinion that this disease hath no remedy and that there existeth no panacea for this malady. During the breakout of the plague, however, the extensive letting of blood, the consumption/intake of drinks of a cold nature as well as the drinking of large doses of barberry juice are of great benefit. Especially prior to being afflicted with this disease, and during the outbreak of the plague in the city or villages, if a person continues with such measures, he will be protected.  AB04725

Glorified art Thou, O Lord, Thou Who art my God and my Beloved! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, through which Thy mercy hath preceded all things and the Sun of the beauty of Thy hidden title shone forth above the horizon of creation, and through which Thy bounty was perfected unto all who dwell in heaven and on earth, to send down upon this sick one, from the clouds of Thy mercy, that which shall cleanse him of every malady, illness, and affliction. Immerse him, then, in the ocean of Thy healing, O Thou in Whose hands are the Kingdom of decree and the Dominion of ordainment!  BH11672

In the divine pharmacy there are a hundred thousand immediate remedies and true medicines, yet the patients are heedless and the sick are negligent. Everyone runs after harmful remedies and each soul seeks deadly drugs. Meanwhile, the supreme antidote and the instantaneous cure for the ills of the people of the world are the sacred teachings of the Ancient Beauty and true love for that heart-ravishing countenance. Therefore, as much as you can, apply this true antidote and spiritual remedy so that all chronic diseases of the horizons may be cured and all deadly ailments of the peoples may be healed.   AB07250

Of what benefit is physical well-being? If it is spent in service to the Cause of God and in mindfulness and awareness, then health has importance - otherwise, if this is not the case, what importance does it have? Those effects that result from good health, these are praiseworthy. Therefore health is acceptable and beloved, but in and of itself what importance does it have? It is certain that it will decline. In the end, no matter how much you protect this body, no matter how much you nurture it, it will eventually deteriorate. No matter how much you repair this edifice, it will ultimately fall into ruin.   ABU0662

Regarding what you wrote about one of the handmaidens of God who used opium for pain and who, after the prohibition was declared, abandoned it and nearly perished - the divine decree is that the patient must follow the physician's directions, but the physician must be skilled. In such case, whatever is prescribed must be followed, for the preservation of human life is, in God's sight, greater than any other matter. God, exalted be His glory, hath given precedence to the science of medicine, for in the existence and health of the body lies the obligation to carry out His laws. Thus health was and shall remain of primary importance.  BH00093

And since between physical medicine and spiritual wisdom there exists perfect correspondence and true similarity, exact in every detail, such that even the particular points between these two sciences are in complete agreement and harmony - there being absolutely no difference or disparity in the diagnosis of illnesses, the balancing of constitution, the arrangement of treatment, the care of the sick and ailing, and the kindness shown to the infirm and bedridden - therefore the spiritual physician who must arise to treat souls sick with inner maladies should take his cue from physical medicine in all treatments and proceed accordingly.  AB00390

The Blessed Beauty has explicitly commanded consultation with physicians. A person must even ask every minute detail from his physician. Furthermore, do not allow too many people to frequent his bedside, and let only a single person remain in the room to nurse the ill. Let the ill rest. The very air of tranquility will affect a cure. That is, once calm, serenity and peace have surrounded the ailing, they will greatly benefit his condition. Conversely, if many come, each visitor speaking his opinion, tarrying for a while, engaging the ill in conversation, then, obviously, he will be fatigued. There is nothing better than calm and quite.   ABU0823

Experience hath shown how greatly the renouncing of smoking, of intoxicating drink, and of opium, conduceth to health and vigour, to the expansion and keenness of the mind and to bodily strength. There is today a people who strictly avoid tobacco, intoxicating liquor and opium. This people is far and away superior to the others, for strength and physical courage, for health, beauty and comeliness. A single one of their men can stand up to ten men of another tribe. This hath proved true of the entire people: that is, member for member, each individual of this community is in every respect superior to the individuals of other communities.  AB00109

Children must be provided with all means of health from the moment of birth. Know this: whenever possible, mother's milk is best, most pleasant, and most suitable, unless illness prevents it or the fountain of milk is completely dry... If children are not watched over from early childhood, both physically and spiritually, whether in health or in education, it becomes very difficult later to effect any change or transformation. For example, if a child is not protected at the beginning and does not attain complete health, and if his constitution does not gain strength as it should, the body remains weak, and whatever may be done afterward will have little effect.  AB05045


On one of these stages he was stricken down with fever. In the Orient it is customary that when a person is feverish, he goes and sits in the sunshine. Mobarek had a big fur coat. He puts on this fur coat and lies down in the sun. His fever was so severe that he would shake and tremble like the leaf of a tree. Finally he told to all the children you come early tomorrow morning and I will show you how I am going to treat myself. Early morning we all went and saw Mobarek in the sunshine shaking as usual but with a big basket of prunes before him. He started to eat these prunes and at every moment he was shaking more and more. After this treatment, he became well and never had any more attacks of fever.   ABU1715

This servant of the Blessed Beauty spent hundreds of thousands of skilled eye specialists and compatible physicians who expended their life's breath trying to find an eye medicine that would save this outer eye from veils and dangers. However, this earnest striving bore no fruit and this intense searching yielded no benefit, and this eye will ultimately go blind and descend to the grave. So come, prepare an eye medicine from the jewels of divine mines and the pearls of divine wisdom, and grind and pulverize it in the mortar of spiritual striving, and apply it to the eyes and insight of humanity so that it may grant vision and bestow a luster that will endure forever, nay rather, that will last as long as the eternal Kingdom endures.  AB11881

Complete physical health is to be enjoyed by the animals. Consider when the animal possesses perfect health, it brays, it rolls on the grass, it grazes in the meadows, it dances and kicks and it does perform all kinds of pranks. But man may enjoy the completest physical health, live in the palace and be surrounded with all the luxuries of modern civilization, yet he is not feeling happy, mental anxieties attack him, spiritual worries encircle him, he weeps, laments and stalks abroad ghostlike. This in itself shows that man must take greater care of his spiritual health. Again a person may be sick, lying down in bed and a piece of good news is brought to him, suddenly he is revived and often he is healed. The happiness of man is through his spiritual health and not bodily health.   ABU1712

For healing, prayer and medicine, both are necessary. God has created the herbs and the plants with their useful properties. God has deposited in all the objects a definite effect. Disease is nothing else but a disturbance of equilibrium between the various organisms and functions of the body; healing is to gain again that equilibrium. When the measures of the various elements which go into the make-up of a healthy constitution are disturbed, sickness is produced. For instance let us suppose that there must needs be 2000 grams of saccharine element and 2000 grams of gelatine element in the body of man in order to live normally. Now when the quantities of these measures are disturbed, then, the body is attacked with disease. A course of treatment which will give back the normal standard to these elements will be conducive to health.  ABU1374

There are two ways of healing sickness, material means and spiritual means. The first is by the treatment of physicians; the second consisteth in prayers offered by the spiritual ones to God and in turning to Him. Both means should be used and practised. Illnesses which occur by reason of physical causes should be treated by doctors with medical remedies; those which are due to spiritual causes disappear through spiritual means. Thus an illness caused by affliction, fear, nervous impressions, will be healed more effectively by spiritual rather than by physical treatment. Hence, both kinds of treatment should be followed; they are not contradictory. Therefore thou shouldst also accept physical remedies inasmuch as these too have come from the mercy and favour of God, Who hath revealed and made manifest medical science so that His servants may profit from this kind of treatment also.  AB03722

You have asked concerning the verse: Abstain from eating two incompatible foods at the table. By incompatibility is meant foods and dishes whose ingredients do not agree with each other. However, Baha'u'llah hath not stipulated whether these foods should be specified according to the ancient school of medicine or the modern one. By it is meant that if two incompatible foods be served at the table, it is not advisable to partake of both. And this dependeth also on the state of one's health and on whether the digestive system is functioning properly or poorly. For instance to consume two courses of food which are not easily digestible or to eat two successive meals whose ingredients are both either cold or hot by nature, would hardly agree with a delicate constitution. Or perhaps one's natural disposition may be such that one cannot tolerate two different courses of a certain food or two dishes each of which would adversely affect the digesting of the other. Hence it would not be advisable to partake of these foods in quick succession. This is a matter that must be determined by physicians. Whatever foods a physician may forbid a person to eat successively should be regarded as incompatible.  AB11857

And as for your situation, surely medicine and surgery take precedence over other paths. AB04396

Disease is nothing else but a disturbance of equilibrium between the various organisms and functions of the body; healing is to gain again that equilibrium. When the measures of the various elements which go into the make-up of a healthy constitution are disturbed, sickness is produced.  ABU1374

So long as these constituents remain in their due proportion, according to the natural balance of the whole--that is, no component suffereth a change in its natural proportionate degree and balance, no component being either augmented or decreased--there will be no physical cause for the incursion of disease.  AB00162

So long as this equilibrium is maintained, man is preserved from sickness, but should this fundamental balance, which is the central requirement of a sound constitution, be upset, the constitution will be disrupted and illnesses will supervene. For instance, if there is a deficiency in one of the component parts of the body and a surfeit of another, the state of equilibrium is disturbed and illness occurs. So, for example, equilibrium may require one component to be a thousand grams and another to be five grams. Should the former fall to seven hundred grams and the latter increase in such wise that the state of equilibrium is disturbed, then illness will supervene; and should equilibrium be restored through medicines and treatments, the illness will be overcome.  AB00646

O people of medicine! God teacheth you all measures of wisdom that ye may be thankful. He hath created the bodies of all men together with what He hath created of their souls, their spirits and their hearts, and God knoweth what He hath created by His command, and if ye fear God, ye shall know. God hath created me possessed of equal powers, neither increasing in the first balance the higher force above the lower, nor the outer above the inner in aught. Thus hath God created me, and He hath not created anyone like unto me save those who are witnesses from their Lord. These were created from their Lord's light, and these are they that shall triumph. When ye touch the bodies of the believing men and believing women, glorify ye God and remember Him with praise, and profess the unity of God and magnify Him with His remembrance. This should be within yourselves without raising your voices, lest anyone among you should say what would grieve your souls. God is your Protector and the Protector of the believers. When ye remember God as He hath commanded you, every force that prevaileth in the body - God will surely inspire you then, and ye shall judge accordingly. Verily, dryness after moisture, and cold before heat, are calmed by the one water if ye but ponder its mystery. Verily, water that is not stagnant calmeth all heat in your bodies if ye glorify God and say: "God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. Say: All are His worshippers." And cold is calmed by milk whose taste hath not changed if ye praise God and say: "God beareth witness that there is no God but Him and that Muhammad is His Messenger, and all are devoted to Him." And all moisture is calmed if ye boil in hot water the leaf that cometh from China while ye profess the unity of God and say: "God beareth witness that there is no God but Him, and that those who are witnesses after Muhammad - these are the Imams of Truth, and all bow down to God." Say: Verily all forms of dryness are remedied by the preparation which the servants who remember not make among you nowadays, for they purify it and make it an essence. God hath permitted this unto you as a mercy from Him. And ye should make what ye prepare superior to that, and waste not yourselves in what ye prepare, and make delicate all that ye do lest anyone should surpass you in making a preparation. This is what God hath taught the physicians among you regarding the whole of medical knowledge, would they but ponder it. Say: His name is One, and His meaning in the Mother Book is One, wherein lies healing for all, as a mercy from God. He, verily, is the Truth, the One God. Even so does God gather all healing into one thing, that ye may witness the creation of all things in one thing, and order all your affairs by one command, and construct the chambers of your houses upon one door, whereby every door is opened by one word - one door. This, that ye may witness in the creation of all things the mystery of oneness in oneness. Glorified be He Who desires to expand your religion that ye might find delight therein. BB00004

