 
Hell is the state of mind in which there are evil thoughts and purposes, yielding to the desires of the senses, clinging to material things. In that state man is separated from God, and in his ignorance he suffers.   ABU3044

For example a man with tyranny and enmity sheds the blood of many people, loots their possessions and destroys thousands of homes and families, obviously this wicked person when returns to the lowest abyss will be the cause of torment and degradation of his children and grandchildren and impede their liberation.  AB00821

If Thou wert to give Thy enemies to drink what Thou hast given Thy loved ones to drink, they would all sacrifice themselves in Thy path. But Thou, in Thy hidden wisdom, hast withheld the Kawthar of immortality from the heedless among Thy creatures and ordained it for the sincere ones among Thy chosen ones.  BH09384

 
God formed upon each gate the forms of trinity, and in the form of trinity the temple of trinity for completing the gates of Hell in the twenty-nine arrows from the Ancient Judge. God placed within that Tablet mercy and rest, and in its exterior, from before God, punishment.  BB00364
 
Then know that Paradise and Hell are created and in them are servants whose number none knows save God, and before the Day of Resurrection they will not be revealed to anyone. God suffices regarding them both and God suffices as witness.   BB00412
 
Woe unto me, then woe unto me, if on the field of gathering it should be proclaimed: "Seize him and fetter him, then cast him into the blazing fire, then into a chain seventy cubits long thread him!"... Blessed am I, then blessed am I, shouldst Thou admit me into Thy paradise and clothe me in crimson silk through Thy grace, and feed me of fresh meat through Thy bounty, and give me to drink of pure wine from the cup of Thy mercy.   BB00182
 
 
Nothing has been created without a special destiny, for every creature has an innate station of attainment. The divine teachers desire man to be educated that he may attain to the high rank of his own reality, the deprivation of which is the rank of perdition.  ABU0902

He asked: "Where are Paradise and Hell?" Say: The former is meeting Me and the latter is your own self, O doubting idolater!   BH02116
 
In brief, paradise and hellfire in this outward life have been and shall ever be acceptance and rejection. After the ascension of the spirit to paradises beyond compare, and likewise to hellfire beyond similitude - which are the fruits of the deeds of the one who accepteth and the one who rejecteth - they shall attain thereunto. However, none save God hath comprehended or shall comprehend those stations. For the believer, stations have been created surpassing all that hath been heard of God's wondrous bounties ordained in the paradises of transcendent glory, and likewise for the one who turneth away, beyond what hath been heard of eternal and imperishable torments.   BH00258

For it is said by His Holiness the Bab that the degree of Perfection reached by a thing is its Paradise. That is, when a thing is developed to the highest point possible for it, it has reached its paradise; while its failure is its hell.  ABU2900


Thou admittest whom Thou willest into Thy love and good-pleasure, which is the highest of Thy heavens and Thy paradise, and Thou deniest whom Thou willest from recognizing Thy Proof and His good-pleasure - that is the fire which Thou hast promised to the sinning among Thy servants.   BB00271

Thus dost Thou bring forth from the fire whom Thou willest, and cause to enter Paradise whom Thou willest, and bring forth from Paradise whom Thou willest, and cause to enter the fire howsoever Thou willest. Have mercy then, O my God, through Thy mercy, upon all who have believed in the Bayan, that Thou mayest not cause them to enter the fire of negation, but rather hold them fast by Thy might to enter the paradise of affirmation   BB00141

Such as have believed in God and in His signs are indeed the followers of truth and shall abide in the gardens of delight, while those who have disbelieved in God and have rejected that which He hath revealed, these shall be the inmates of the fire wherein they shall remain forever.   BB00520
 
 
For it is said by His Holiness the Bab that the degree of Perfection reached by a thing is its Paradise. That is, when a thing is developed to the highest point possible for it, it has reached its paradise; while its failure is its hell.  ABU2900

A wicked soul is the only thing out of harmony in the universe. As it does not come into the flow of the Divine Will, it is not of the Spirit. Whatever is the destiny of the wicked soul in the hereafter, we know that its development rests with the Mercy of God.  ABU0744











 
But whoso turneth away from Our Cause in denial and rebellion against the truth, the Most Merciful shall make them taste of the tree of boiling water springing from the depths of Hell - bitter food indeed.  BB00002
 
And those who perform righteous deeds in the vicinity of the Gate - their reward with God their Lord shall be gardens beneath which rivers flow, wherein they shall abide forever and ever... And as for him whom symbols have veiled from symbols, he is among the companions of the Fire in the depths of Sijjin, having been mentioned.  BB00002
 
And those who speak falsely about Our loved ones, saying they were dead after their martyrdom - these are they who have sold the verses of God for a paltry price, unjustly and for little gain... Soon will the All-Merciful place you upon the path of the Fire and question you heavily concerning the mention of Our servant. Not one of you but shall approach it, pausing without right, and this has been decreed by God as an ordained judgment in truth. Then God will deliver those who were God-fearing, leaving the wrongdoers therein - a decree from the Book fulfilled in truth.  BB00002
 
Glorified be He Who set the Balance and gathered all beings into the next creation, and admitted those who believed into His mercy, while the heedless entered into hell and torment - evil indeed is the end of him who denied and fabricated lies!   AB09082
 
And among the people were those whose reckoning was severe and whose scales were light, who suffered loss and were given their book in their left hand and fell into the pit of the abyss - evil was their end. And among them were those who rejoiced, whose scales were heavy, whose commerce prospered, who were given their book in their right hand, whose faces were illumined, whose mouths smiled, whose hearts soared with joy   AB04926
 
As for the companions of the right hand, their faces beamed with joy, their souls took flight, their hearts were attracted, their lips smiled, their spirits rejoiced, and they said "This indeed is the supreme triumph in the garden of delight!" But as for the companions of the left hand, their skin shuddered, their faces were covered with dust, their hair was disheveled, their eyes were blinded, their souls recoiled, and they said "This indeed is the grievous chastisement in the lowest hell!"  AB05406
 
 
Hell designated the heedlessness of people from God.  ABU3510
 
Heaven and hell exist both in this world and in the next world...the spirits of holy souls enjoy all heavenly blessings and divine favors, while the spirits of the deniers and people of error and the adversaries are caught in hell and torment, abased and humiliated.  ABU1302
 

 
 
Then convey Our remembrance unto those who are with thee and give them the glad-tidings of a holy and inaccessible paradise.  BH07860

Good thoughts, good resolves, and good deeds bring men nearer to God, and that is heaven. Salvation - heaven - is the conscious realisation of God in this life, which is gained by love, kindness, and good deeds.   ABU3044

For it is said by His Holiness the Bab that the degree of Perfection reached by a thing is its Paradise. That is, when a thing is developed to the highest point possible for it, it has reached its paradise; while its failure is its hell.  ABU2900


They have attained unto the everlasting bounties in the Garden of Abha and have been united with the Most Great Sea in the most exalted station.   BH07507
 
each day take a houri in thine arms and dwell in a palace... Yet not physical houris who possess naught but appetite and desire naught but money, but rather obtain spiritual houris and take delight in the divine gathering   BH07029
 
And now the angels of Paradise circle round them with chalices of Kawthar and Salsabil... round them circle the denizens of the highest Paradise at eventide and at dawn   BH05976
 
Verily, she who hath believed is assuredly numbered with the denizens of the All-Glorious Paradise in the sight of God   BH05790
 
They who have turned their faces toward My countenance, these are the dwellers of Paradise, and the holy angels shall glorify them. And they who have turned away shall enter the fire.  BH05673
 
 
We have ordained stations in Paradise for everyone who hath desired Us.  BH05548
 
"But those who have believed in God and acted according to His command - soon shall the angels and the Spirit receive them with chalices of Kawthar and Salsabil, and give them glad tidings of the presence of God, and usher them into the station wherein shineth the light of the face of your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing."  BH03987
 
At the time of his ascent, the angels and the Spirit received him and brought him into the highest Paradise, his head adorned with the crown of My Most Glorious Name   BH03815
 
now dwelleth in the Most Glorious chambers, companioned by the maidens of paradise. He drinketh from the Kawthar of immortality from the hands of youths whom God hath created from the light of glory, whose faces shine as the sun in spheres of crystal white, illumining all who dwell in paradise   BH03501
 
Enter ye the Garden by God's leave and eat freely of its bounties...Soon shall its gates be opened and thou shalt hear the melodies of the birds of Paradise from its precincts.  BH03459
 
But those who have believed, these are in the mercy of their Lord and are rejoicing in the holy Ridvan, while the maidens of Paradise wait upon them and they delight in the fruits of divine knowledge.  BH03144
 
Were you to witness the station of Our servant in the highest Paradise, you would beseech God to raise you up unto him. But it hath been veiled from you by a wisdom that none hath comprehended save God   BH03117
 
We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to make thee a companion in the most exalted Paradise with His Prophets and His chosen ones, to give thee to drink at all times from the Kawthar of His bounty and the Salsabil of His utterance, to cause thee to hear the warbling of the nightingales of His good-pleasure and the rustling of the Lote-Trees of the highest Paradise and the flowing of the Kawthar of His mercy amongst the Concourse on high.  BH03049
 
And the Maids of Paradise, and the secluded Maidens of eternity, and the Countenances whom God created from the light of Glory before the creation of earth and heaven, find his fragrance. And upon their brows is inscribed by the golden Pen: "By God! They are the handmaidens of Glory and were created for those who were martyred in the path of this Youth Who sitteth upon the throne of cloud."  BH03026
 
the denizens of the Most Exalted Paradise and the Supreme Heaven have attained...beneath the pavilions of grandeur, under the shade of the Tree of Grace, in the Supreme Paradise and Most Exalted Heaven  BH02823
 
Therefore eat of whatsoever fruits of Paradise thou desirest, for they have been ordained for thee from the presence of One mighty and wise. And find solace with the maidens of Paradise in chambers of luminous glory.   BH02039
 
For verily it is a paradise created from the essence of Thy power and fashioned from the subtleties of Thy might, wherein the sun shineth unclouded, and its moon is radiant without eclipse, and its stars never fall, and its mansions never crumble, and its trees never change, and its fruits never alter, and its mysteries are never veiled, and its breezes never cease, and its treasures never perish, and its light is never extinguished, and its garment never wears out, and its verses are never abrogated, and its clusters are near at hand, and its fruits endure, and its leaves are evergreen, and its blessings are perfect. Its sun hath ever been at its zenith and its moon at the height of beauty.   BH01160
 
Paradise signifieth first and foremost the good-pleasure of God. Whosoever attaineth His good-pleasure is reckoned and recorded among the inhabitants of the most exalted paradise and will attain, after the ascension of his soul, that which pen and ink are powerless to describe.   BH00827
 
He hath remembered you and ordained for you in the most exalted Paradise and the supreme Heaven that which shall bring delight to all eyes and vision.   BH00461
 
Blessed is the spirit that hath emerged from the body purified from the doubts and superstitions of the nations. Such a spirit moveth in the atmosphere of God's good-pleasure and entereth the Supreme Paradise. The Maids of Heaven, dwellers of the loftiest mansions, shall circle around it, and the Prophets of God and His chosen ones will seek its companionship.   BH00433
 
As to Paradise: It is a reality and there can be no doubt about it, and now in this world it is realized through love of Me and My good-pleasure. Whosoever attaineth unto it God will aid him in this world below, and after death He will enable him to gain admittance into Paradise whose vastness is as that of heaven and earth. Therein the Maids of glory and holiness will wait upon him in the daytime and in the night season, while the day-star of the unfading beauty of his Lord will at all times shed its radiance upon him and he will shine so brightly that no one shall bear to gaze at him.  BH00354
 
There shalt thou hear the melodies of the birds of eternity upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree, and drink the pure water of holiness from the hands of the heavenly maidens.  BH11750
 

"This is the Paradise of eternity - We have opened its gates unto all who are in the heavens and on earth."  BH05177
 
 
This is the garden of Paradise, wherein arise the anthems of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting; wherein ascend the soul-entrancing melodies warbled by the Nightingale of Eternity upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-Tree; wherein abide the Maids of Heaven whom none hath touched save God, the All-Glorious, the Most Holy   BH00759
 
This is the Paradise of eternity - We have opened its gates unto all who are in the heavens and on earth. Hasten thereunto, O ye who are sincere, and turn not back upon your heels.   BH05177
 
And He established in each one thereof palaces of hidden and precious pearls, and in every palace are maidens who appear to have been created from the light of God, the Mighty, the Exalted, the Beloved. They all remember God their Creator with enchanting and uplifted melodies, and the people of the eternal pavilion take delight in their songs and are drawn by their strains.  BH00084
 
We beseech God, exalted be He, to forgive them, to absolve them of their misdeeds, and to cause them to enter the most exalted Paradise--the station wherein the atoms cry out: Enter ye, enter ye, O people of Baha and companions of the Crimson Ark!  BH01243
 
Before them is whatsoever they desire - therein are maidens fair as hidden pearls, therein are youths like treasured crimson rubies, therein are all manner of noble garments they don with pride, therein is every bounty they desire, say what they will therein, and they do naught but glorify. At all times do they sanctify, at all times do they magnify, at all times do they extol, and at all times do they revere.   BB00666
 
 
They have entered the highest paradise and settled upon silken carpets at or nearer, drinking from ruby cups wine that neither intoxicates nor clouds the mind, partaking of fresh meat and whatever their souls desire in the most glorious seats, elevated upon their thrones while angels stand before them to remind them of what was revealed in Our greatest verses. They recline with their houris who were created from the light of their Lord upon the highest dune - their very hair remembering that there is no God but Him, the Most High, the Most Exalted.   BB00225
 
And those in Paradise shall possess, through their relationship to Thee, that which Thou hast made lawful for them, without end or decline, and Thou wilt reward them by their own hands though they comprehend it not.   BB00190
 
As for those who fulfill God's covenant and purchase not any of the verses for a paltry price - these are guided by God's Remembrance, the Most High, and these are truly the companions of Paradise in God's Book, and thus hath it been inscribed in the Mother Book. These are they who believe in God and His verses with pure and sincere truth. God shall soon reward them on the Day of Resurrection with a double portion and a goodly final abode, elevated in truth upon truth. BB00002
 
Did He not promise you from God a garden whose breadth is as the breadth of heaven and earth, prepared for Our servants who believe in the Remembrance of God, the Exalted, and are pure in truth upon truth? Therein shall ye have what your souls desire, by Our leave, in truth - fresh bounties.  BB00002
 
They are the people of Paradise, by God's leave, dwelling therein eternally. They see naught but spirit upon spirit from the remembrance of God, the Exalted, and He is God, the Mighty, the Great. They recline upon crimson cushions around the Gate. They see therein neither sun nor air, but the angels meet them with God's remembrance, the Exalted, in the name of God, the Living, as witnessed.  BB00002
 
 
Say: The believers in the intermediate world - these are they who delight in Paradise. But they shall not enter the First Paradise, for it shall not appear until God manifests Me with clear signs. That Day shall be the Day of the Most Exalted Paradise, if ye would seek its shade. And the Day when God shall cause Me to return - that is the Day of the Most Exalted Paradise. And this Paradise on that Day shall be like unto the First Paradise.  BB00004
 
Say: If ye believe in Me, then ye shall dwell in Paradise. And he entered Paradise through the mercy of his Lord. Verily, He is the Mighty, the Bestower. Say: If ye believe in Me, then ye shall dwell in Paradise, and if ye believe not in Me, then ye shall dwell in the shadow of Paradise.  BB00004
 
Say: They who have believed in God and His signs, and who place their trust in their Lord - these shall abide secure in lofty chambers of Paradise. Therein shall they have all that they desire. Therein shall they have a magnificent throne whereon they shall recline. Therein shall they have an exalted seat whereon they shall rest. Therein shall they have of silk and brocade such as they love to wear. Therein shall they have of every fruit that they desire. Therein shall they have flesh of fowl and fish. Therein shall they have of every drink that they love to drink. Therein shall they have of every sweet thing wherein they may delight. Therein shall they have maidens pure as hidden pearls. Therein shall they have maidens pure as treasured ornaments. Therein shall they have youths like scattered rubies.  BB00004
 
For them are gardens wherein are all manner of beverages they desire to drink, and therein are all sweet things in which they take delight. For them therein are maidens pure as hidden pearls, maidens pure as treasured gems, maidens pure as hidden treasures, maidens pure as pearls arranged in rows. For them therein are youths like scattered rubies. For them therein are adorned books inscribed in golden water upon crimson tablets, which they behold. Say: Verily they remember God, their Lord, at morn and eventide, and they dwell amidst all that they love. These are the companions of Paradise, wherein they have an abode and provision for as long as God, their Lord, willeth.  BB00004
 
God hath created for me in Paradise that which He hath created for none else among all beings - therein is a mighty throne, therein a lofty seat, therein a noble throne, therein an exalted seat, therein a gracious throne, therein a glorious seat. We were established thereon, we were independent thereon, we were settled thereon, we were standing thereon.  BB00004
 
Say: All, by His command, shall wed the houris created of white light. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All, by His leave, shall wed the houris created of yellow light. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All, through His mercy, shall wed the houris created of green light. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All, through His bounty and what He hath ordained, shall wed the houris created of red light.  BB00004
 
 
As for what thou asked regarding the words of Ahmad--peace be upon him--yes, when man enters Paradise, he remains in the first station of the letters "There is no god but God"--the station of the body--for twelve thousand years. He advances from this station in less than the twinkling of an eye to the highest station, like his stay in the first station. The people of Paradise advance eternally in Paradise through God's grace, as there is no end to His bounty's effusion.  BB00072
 
God hath created for us therein white chambers wherein we were among those who glorify Him, then yellow chambers wherein we were among the thankful ones, then green chambers wherein we were among those who declare His unity, then red chambers wherein we were among those who magnify Him. Say: The first chambers are of hidden white diamond. Say: The other chambers are of treasured yellow ruby. Say: The outer chambers are of emerald which, when ye behold them, will so attract your souls that ye will exclaim: God beareth witness that there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved.  BB00004
 
 
For those who have believed in God and His verses - their men, their women, and their offspring - He hath created after their death, in Paradise, bodies of living crimson ruby by thy Lord's leave. When their spirits depart, they attach to these bodies by thy Lord's permission, and in their stations with God are they sustained. Therein shall they have whatsoever their souls desire, and God increaseth His bounty unto whomsoever He willeth among His servants.  BB00003
 
O Lord! Grant him the chalice of Thy favors in the midst of Paradise, make him to abide eternally in the heart of Paradise and within the holy gardens, nigh unto Thy Most Great Mercy.  AB09770
 
