Is there a hell more direful than Ignorance? A hell worse than deprivation from the Divine Nearness? A hell lower than negligence and inadvertence?  ABU3485

man remains heedless and forgetful   AB05610

He is indeed negligent and unaware.  ABU2797

yet most of the people remain heedless  BH08758

"Arise from the couches of heedlessness"   BH04491

You have awakened from the sleep of heedlessness  AB04904

Negligence and apathy are heavy 'veils of Glory.'   ABU0468

They are witnessed to be in manifest heedlessness.   BH06896

Yet the [ignorant] servants remained heedless of all   BH08180

Hearken unto My counsel and be not of the heedless ones.  BH11393

Yet heedlessness hath prevented their eyes from beholding   BH10943

yet We see ignorance and heedlessness among My loved ones   BH03782

Blessed is he who heareth, and woe unto the heedless ones!   BH07925

in days when the people of the earth were heedless and veiled  BH07332

Nevertheless, the people remain heedless, veiled and deprived  BH08711

they who slumber on the couch of heedlessness and idle fancies   BH07618

that perchance the people may arise from the couch of heedlessness   BH09771

while the people lay wrapt in the couch of heedlessness and desire   BH08997

How long will ye slumber upon the couch of heedlessness and desire?   BH05818

But people, due to heedlessness, have become deprived and forbidden.  BH06073

"Yet people are sleep and do not comprehend the wonders of this Revelation."   ABU2586

hast been awakened from the slumber of heedlessness by the breeze of His grace  BH10566

delivered thee from immersion in the seas of heedlessness and vain imaginings   AB10998

You have awakened from the sleep of negligence and have heard the heavenly melody.  AB12531

He became neglectful and heedless, forgetting God in their mad haste after wealth   ABU2765

The people of the world and all nations are burning with the fever of heedlessness   AB07247

others are unconscious and suffering from the deadly poison of heedlessness and error  AB05695

"But the heedless ones are in manifest darkness and the agitators are in great pride!"  AB04218

Heedlessness has seized all handmaidens except those who have transcended idle fancies   BH09035

Heedlessness hath so seized them that they are prevented from hearkening unto this Call  BH06238

Heedlessness hath encompassed the world, the world hath prevented all from the Lord of Names.   BH07586

the clouds are naught but the vain imaginings of heedless souls...summon the heedless servants  BH08899

the servants who wander in the wilderness of heedlessness and are among those who are bewildered  BH08583

May GOD not permit any soul to become heedless. Heedlessness will uproot the foundation of man.   ABU0841

And today, the essence of worldliness is heedlessness of My remembrance and love of Mine enemies   BH04971

It has always been the practice of the heedless to hold back the sincere ones from the Cause of God   ABU2861

But if, God forbid, he becometh heedless, the treasures and riches of the earth shall profit him not   BH09133

Most of the people of the world are seen to be unconscious, in the stupor of heedlessness and pride.   BH08525

The Sun of Truth hath risen while most of the people remain afflicted with the sleep of heedlessness.   BH07083

Say: O people! The Beloved hath come and the horizons are illumined. Why do I see you among the heedless?   BH02771

Today all things are occupied with remembrance and praise, yet most of the servants are heedless and veiled.   BH06103

The heedless ones of that realm are audacious, and the ignorant ones of that land are proud and vainglorious.  AB02287

when heedlessness seized the dwellers of earth and heaven save whom God, the Mighty, the Powerful, hath willed   BH09831

Those who have doubted are wandering in the wilderness of idle fancies - they are indeed of the heedless ones.   BH06895

whenever thou findest one dejected and listless, know that he hath withered from the poisonous winds of heedlessness  AB08848

The fragrances of the days are diffusing - blessed is the soul that hath found and attained, and woe unto the heedless.   BH06459

in these days when souls are seized with the cold of heedlessness and have returned to their former state, being as dead   BH05300

Despite this, how heedless and unconscious are the people who witness this turning and yet remain attached to this world!   AB06646

yet the patients are heedless and the sick are negligent. Everyone runs after harmful remedies and each soul seeks deadly drugs.   AB07250

yet most are heedless thereof, for they have forsaken that which is with God and occupied themselves with that which is with them   BH08970

They who are heedless this day are indeed the most remote of all creation in the sight of thy Lord - no portion have they in the Book.  BH11639

Whenever man becomes heedless of God, he is in conflict and contention with his fellow beings. Censure stems from heedlessness of Truth;   ABU2041

yet the people remain engrossed in self and heedless of Him. Have they not heard the divine Call, or have they not perceived its sweetness?   BH09520

Grieve thou not over those that have busied themselves with the things of this world, and have forgotten the remembrance of God, the Most Great.  BH10140

Some of the heedless ones have imagined that since the Sun of Truth has set from the horizon of the human temple, its holy rays have also declined  AB07279

Heedlessness and ignorance have held men back from the ocean of divine knowledge and left them wandering in the wilderness of error and misguidance.  BH07560

yet the people remain among the heedless. They have cast the decree of God behind their backs and followed every ignorant one far removed from truth   BH09255

Heedlessness hath so seized them that they have cast the laws of God behind their backs and taken that which they were bidden by every heedless doubter.   BH08665

how much more those who are as sucklings still drinking from the breast of heedlessness and ignorance, and who wander in the wilderness of self and passion!   BH07611

these people have become immersed in the sea of blame and lie asleep in the bed of heedlessness, utterly unaware that they have destroyed their own foundation.  AB08345

The intoxication of the dregs of heedlessness hath seized them in such wise as to debar them from the divine fragrances when they were wafted throughout creation.  BH11618

The heedlessness of the people hath reached such a pass that after searching far and wide, they have imprisoned the Purpose of the world, and they perceive it not.   BH08100

Yet the people remain in manifest darkness save those who have cast away vain imaginings and followed that which they were commanded by the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH06642

The people are heedless and deprived of the effulgences of the Sun of Truth. Where is the eye that can see, and where the ear that can hear the utterance of the Friend?  BH05928

Verily your Lord, the All-Merciful, desireth to draw you nigh unto Him, yet you flee from Him. What aileth you, O heedless ones! You have slept through most of your days   BH07769

The meaning of the world of causes is the heedlessness of the servant from the One Who is served, and this has not had and does not have specification to any particular thing.   BH06474

souls who are immersed in the seas of vain imaginings, heedless of these days, wandering in the wilderness of ignorance and blindness, swimming in the oceans of error and delusion  AB07034

Most of those who imagine vain things have not, until now, comprehended the station of this Revelation as it deserves. This is why they wander in the wilderness of heedlessness and forgetfulness.   BH05322

By My life! Their heedlessness, remoteness, denial, and objection to Him Who created them and brought them into being sufficeth them. No punishment hath been or shall be greater than heedlessness.  BH01740

Glory be to God! What heedlessness is this, that the fragrance from the gardens of the Kingdom of Abha hath encompassed both the seen and the unseen realms, yet the afflicted one remaineth deprived.  AB08831

Yet when the Dawning Place of divine Will appeared and shone forth with the Sun of Manifestation, all were found heedless and turned away, except whom God, your Lord and the Lord of the worlds, willed.   BH03842

Today the intoxication of heedlessness has seized the people of the world, and it has seized the people of the Bayan in such wise that they are seen to be more veiled than all the peoples of the earth.   BH05337

From amongst mankind those who live a heedless life are at the end afflicted with manifest loss. For the days of their lives will come to a sudden end with no trace, no leaves, no blossom and no fruit.   AB05986

All things, in one station, are heralds of the Truth among the servants. Nevertheless, heedlessness has encompassed the whole world, save those whom thy Lord, the All-Merciful, the Most Generous, has willed.   BH05793

Think not that those who are heedless of God are living. By My life! They are among the dead. Their wretchedness hath overcome them and their souls have prompted them to that which will lead them back to the flames.   BH07212

Pride and turning away have become the cause and reason for negligence, for had they acted according to what the All-Merciful revealed in the Qur'an, they would have ever been observed beneath the glances of His favor.   BH00740

Glory be to God! What heedlessness is this, that while the sweet fragrances from the gardens of the Most Glorious Kingdom have encompassed both the visible and invisible realms, yet the afflicted one remaineth deprived.  AB08831

But alas! man is not grateful for this supreme good, but sleeps the sleep of negligence, being careless of the great mercy which God has shown towards him, turning his face away from the light and going on his way in darkness.  ABU0899

The Hour hath come and its signs are manifest, yet most of the people remain heedless. Such heedlessness hath seized them that they have cast God behind their backs, clinging to the idle fancies and vain imaginings they possess.  BH06327

However, some of them were heedless of the influences of the Most Exalted Pen - they did not know what was the cause of this honor. Rather, they fell into heedlessness and pride and did not appreciate the value of these bounties.  ABU2819

You were as one sleeping upon the couch of heedlessness, so deep in slumber that you heard not the cry of the strivers, though that cry had encompassed all who dwell in earth and heaven, and had caused these deniers to swoon away.  BH00936

Some of the veiled ones have imagined that the doors of heavenly bounties are closed, that the rain of great mercy hath been cut off, and that the lights of mighty grace have been extinguished. How evil is that which they imagine!  AB08258

This servant has ever remembered the friends and summoned all to the supreme horizon, yet most have remained deprived of the fragrances of these days, for they have fixed their gaze upon the manifestations of fancy and idle imaginings.  BH04417

There are yet other souls who are heedless, who have been led to the edge of dangerous precipices through their own carelessness; one word of warning will bring to them the realization of their critical condition and immediately they retreat.  ABU2178

For years the arrows of tribulation have rained down from the clouds of destiny through that which the hands of the wicked have wrought upon the Truth and His loved ones, while thou didst repose upon the couch of heedlessness in utmost negligence.   BH01535

Alas, a hundred times alas, that the heedless are unaware of the glad tidings of this herald, and the faithless are deprived of this bounty and fruit. They have sold this brilliant crown for a mere trifle and burned this glorious diadem in the fire of negligence.  AB04376

But alas! we have entirely neglected them and are pursuing our own desires, following our own opinions, seeking our own ideas, and chasing our own shadows! Is it not a shame to change His Rose Garden into a bramble patch? His Delectable Paradise into a ruined abode?  AB01100

All peoples and nations are intoxicated with the wine of pride, and are heedless, oblivious and deprived of the bounties of this radiant century. Each one is wandering in some wilderness, lost in some ocean, with neither shore nor end, neither salvation nor shelter.  AB06217

You had written about your shortcomings in servitude at the Sacred Threshold. This shortcoming encompasses all. 'Abdu'l-Baha also, at every moment, recites this verse in utmost shame: How can I raise my head in shame before the Friend, when no worthy service has been rendered by my hand?  AB09256

But now some have shown ingratitude and become heedless of the favors of the Blessed Beauty. They attributed this progress and glory to their own good management. Therefore, in these days a great trembling has fallen upon the pillars of the Zoroastrians in Tehran. Affairs have been reversed  AB03247

Until now it hath passed with negligence. Praise be to God, now ye are a community in those regions. Gather ye together in the name of Truth and execute that which will cause the fame of your justice and fairness to spread. God in His commandments hath not shown, nor will He show, any leniency.  BH11804

beware of heedlessness...Otherwise the suckling babe is unaware of the father's bounty and the mother's care and honor and respect; nay, through ignorance and unconsciousness he may consider kindness to be harshness, honey to be poison, comfort to be pain, and the antidote to be increased suffering.  AB07613

After traversing some distance in the wilderness, the fire of love became extinguished and beauty's attraction became veiled. When we passed beyond that station, we counted good deeds as evil and evil deeds as good...Each day we increased in fancy and conjecture while decreasing in attention to truth.  BH00956

Worst of all is the people's lack of awareness, for they do not become mindful of their own deeds and character. They are drowning in the sea of heedlessness. This calamity is beyond all calamities. If they had become aware, it would have quickly passed away. But their lack of awareness causes increased confusion.  AB02152

Yet despite these grievous afflictions befalling weak humanity, all remain captive to the sleep of negligence and averse to love and fellowship. There is neither awakening nor remembrance, neither thought nor contemplation, neither prayer nor supplication, neither humility and lamentation nor repentance and turning unto God.  AB00177

However, eyes have been veiled by the veils of tyranny, and the people of languidness have shut the eyes of justice. They cling to graves and are heedless of resurrection. They are deprived of joy and have abandoned gladness. They are in a state of negligence, distraction, sleep and slumber. They hear no voice and heed no counsel.   AB05950

When negligence overtakes a person he will become blind to everything else...In former cycles local and general negligence on the part of the people was quite prevalent but it was never so universal as now...Consider to what height the negligence of the people has soared in these days that even the mention of the name of God is tabooed.  ABU0159

The Most Great Ocean is manifest and visible before all faces, yet they remain bereft of it and continue to thirst. The fire hath been kindled, yet they see it not. The Divine Lote Tree hath spoken, yet they hear not. The Cry hath been raised, yet they remain asleep. The horizon of the Cause hath been illumined, yet they turn not toward it.  BH00077

Alas, alas! My heedlessness hath destroyed me and my disobedience hath weakened me. I know not, O my Purpose and my Adored One, with what countenance to turn toward Thee, with what heart to approach Thy most exalted horizon and supreme height, and with what tongue to offer excuses before the manifestations of Thy justice, O Lord of all being!  BH01752

Notwithstanding this effulgence and this diffusion of the Fragrance of Rose-Garden of the Covenant, innumerable souls are yet afflicted with the sleep of negligence. The eyes are veiled and the nostrils do not inhale the fragrant perfume. What a negligence is this! What an inadvertence is this! What an ignorance is this and what a heedlessness is this!   AB01036

They that are sunk in heedlessness fondly imagine that massacre and crucifixion cause the fire of the Word of God to be extinguished, and regard martyrdom as a devastating injury. They are utterly oblivious of the truth that through such afflictions the Cause of God is exalted, its fame is blazoned far and wide, and the martyrs themselves are enabled to attain the boundless retreats of nearness unto God.   BH08863

Now must the sincere ones and the pure in heart, with utmost lowliness, beseech God, exalted be His glory, for the protection of the radiant Faith. The recompense of deeds is evident and manifest in all days, but where is the soul who will take heed, and where is the one who will be awakened? The sleep of heedlessness and the intoxication of pride have seized all and cast them like uprooted stones upon the earth.   BH01377

Days have passed and We have not heard from the bird of thy heart the melodies of love, nor have We found from thee the sweet savors of longing and affection. It is as though thou hast forgotten Us and forgotten the stations of reunion while the breezes of grace wafted upon thee. And if thou forgettest Us, verily We do not forget thee, and if thou art heedless of Our remembrance, verily We are not heedless of thee.  BH11887

A hundred thousand regrets that most of the people are heedless of what they see and hear. The Most Great Bell hath been adorned by the fingers of the mercy of the All-Merciful in the midmost heart and the divine call hath been raised. Yet the people are seen to be withered, nay rather dead, save whom thy Lord willeth. Do they not inhale the fragrance of the utterance and remain heedless, or are they deprived by what their hands have wrought?   BH02646

Ages have passed and your precious lives are well-nigh ended, yet not a single breath of purity hath reached Our court of holiness from you. Though immersed in the ocean of misbelief, yet with your lips ye profess the one true faith of God. Him whom I abhor ye have loved, and of My foe ye have made a friend. Notwithstanding, ye walk on My earth complacent and self-satisfied, heedless that My earth is weary of you and everything within it shunneth you.  BH00113

Yet some commanding souls, unwittingly following their own desires, are engaged in undermining the Cause of God, counting themselves among the mature and perfect ones. The cawing of the crows, which was revealed in numerous Tablets and about which We gave warning, is in these days raised from certain quarters. Although these are days wherein fellowship, unity, love and accord are beloved, those heedless souls have again become the cause of differences.  BH00240

This fairest of lands was once a lamp, streaming with the rays of Divine knowledge, of science and art, of nobility and high achievement, of wisdom and valor. Today, because of the idleness and lethargy of her people, their torpor, their undisciplined way of life, their lack of pride, lack of ambition -- her bright fortune has been totally eclipsed, her light has turned to darkness. The seven heavens and the seven earths weep over the mighty when he is brought low.  AB00004

Some are awakened and become aware of divine intentions, their awareness increasing, while others grow more heedless. In these days, were one to find hearing, every created thing would inform man of the mighty events and grievous trials which are the consequences of deeds, and would, in most eloquent language, make him aware. How many a stone hath melted from the fear of God, and how many a servant laugheth and playeth until chastisement seizeth him from every direction.  BH01512


They hear but understand not, they see but remain heedless   BH10564

Nevertheless, the heedless servants remain veiled from Him   BH06017

The Day hath come, yet the people remain in a strange sleep  BH01882

the Iranians are still captive in the sleep of heedlessness  AB12605

The people are heedless and negligent, ignorant and unwise.  AB06246

at a time when most of His servants have turned away from Him   BH08623

most of the people are heedless...while among the heedless ones  BH09369

"...when men of renown were immersed in manifest idle fancies."  BH09210

Mighty is the Cause, yet the people are heedless, nay, as dead.  BH11038

yet the people perceive not and walk in the wilderness of fancy   BH10759

Heedlessness hath so seized them that they see yet recognize not.  BH09453

yet the people remain veiled and have no share today from thy cup  BH04547

the ears of the world are occupied with listening to unworthy tales  BH10923

but the people are seen to be heedless and asleep, nay rather dead   BH06502

Nevertheless, all remain heedless and veiled, save whom God willeth   BH10727

To this testifieth every atom, but the people are in evident veiling   BH09525

yet the people understand not...yet the people remain in evident veil  BH07281

The Day is come and the people are wrapped in veils and heedlessness   BH06561

The All-Informed has come while the people are in evident heedlessness.   BH08689

We behold the people standing in the wilderness of idle fancy and error   BH08061

How heedless are they! How negligent are they! How inadvertent are they!  ABU1554

Those who are heedless this Day are wandering in the wilderness of error   BH05921

The heedless ones are still drunk and unconscious on the bed of ignorance  AB10436

How long will ye follow vain imaginings and idle fancies? Open your eyes!   BH05829

The verdict was against the poor, young teacher and the position was lost.  ABU2022

By God, they are a people who understand not...yet the people know it not.   BH03988

The abundance of bounty and blessing hath become the cause of heedlessness.  BH06867

And when He found the buyers to be pretenders and the seekers to be heedless  AB06890

People have fallen into such heedlessness that they deserve such hardships.   ABU2055

The heedless people pass their days in hopes whose fulfillment is impossible.  BH08750

The Hour hath come and the Trump hath been sounded, yet they perceive it not   BH06045

these days wherein all have remained heedless of Him save His chosen servants  BH06048

Yet the heedless remain in blindness and doubt, in trembling and perturbation  AB11071

How little man knows[!] How ignorant is he! How devoid of intelligence is he!  ABU2008

A Book that speaks and a Cause that is manifest, yet the people are heedless.   BH09343

Yet the people remain heedless thereof, occupied with their own idle fancies.   BH08214

How long will you remain heedless like past peoples? Are you asleep or blind?   ABU1925

whilst in the midst of those who were heedless of God, the Master of existence   BH10185

By the life of God! The people are in a strange sleep and behind a thick veil.   BH05619

The world hath been encompassed by the dark smoke of ignorance and foolishness.   BH10416

By My life! We see them not in wakefulness, but rather in their ancient stupor.   BH03121

The Hidden One has been made manifest, yet most people remain among the heedless.   BH09711

Verily the Day calleth with the most exalted call, yet the people remain heedless.   BH09365

Now the blind ones behold not the lights of the outpourings of the Kingdom of Abha.  AB07806

By God, the heavenly table hath been sent down, yet most of the people are heedless.  BH09220

but the public as a mass of men are indifferent, heedless, whimsical and forgetful.   ABU2104

yet most of the people perceive not. They see yet deny, they hear yet understand not.  BH08517

yet most people deny. They behold God's power, then deny it - truly they are as dead   BH07876

yet when it dawned from the horizon of God's Will, all were found heedless save a few   BH08453

Even so, souls remain heedless, preoccupied with selfish desires and drowned in pride   ABU2833

Heedlessness hath encompassed the world and prevented all from the Most Exalted Horizon   BH06617

Yet the people have remained blind to beholding these lights and perceiving these signs.  AB09073

The way of God and the religion of God have ceased to be of any worth in the eyes of men.  BH11458

Yet all are heedless of the causes and reasons, and oblivious to the wisdom and purpose.   AB06353

The heedless one moveth and journeyeth in the wilderness of negligence, led by ignorance.   BH01487

The call hath been raised between earth and heaven, yet most of the people remain heedless   BH08814

The world hath been darkened by the dust of heedless souls and prevented from its delicacy.  BH06484

most of the people have turned away, denied, and disbelieved in God, the Lord of the worlds  BH06829

The wine of heedlessness hath so seized them that they have not awakened at the call of God   BH08931

Verily, the Tree crieth out and the Tongue speaketh, yet the people are in evident delusion   BH07395

They have not risen at the Blast, nor stirred at the Trump, as though they were deaf stones.   BH00884

Yet now, like unto rays diffused and fragrances wafted, all are heedless save whom God willeth  BH11517

yet the people are in grievous doubt...yet the people dwell in the darkness of their own selves  BH09533

"Hearing proclaims: 'The All-Hearing has come, yet the people remain behind a manifest veil.'"   BH08039

the blind were forbidden, deprived, subdued, and veiled, crying out "Where is the rising sun?"   AB02931

Yet the people are in evident doubt. The verses pass them by while they remain heedless thereof.   BH09368

All things bear witness to that which God hath testified, yet the people are in a strange slumber  BH06546

yet the servants remain heedless of His appearance and are devoted to the idols of their desires   BH05722

Yet after the rending of veils and removal of coverings, most were found heedless and in denial.   BH05200

Glorious is this day, and mighty is this Cause, yet the poor people remain heedless and unaware.   BH01759

The Calamity hath appeared and the Cry hath been raised, yet the people remain in a strange sleep.  BH07397

Be not grieved by the opposition of people and their turning away, for they are weak and immature.  BH02520

All the people are negligent, they are not thinking of pleasing God and spreading the word of God.  ABU2021

When the Truth came, the people turned away from it save those who clung to the cord of their Lord   BH10475

The peoples of the world are immersed in endless darkness and submerged in the sea of heedlessness.  AB10013

Verily today the Call is raised and the verses speak the truth, yet most of the people are heedless   BH06043

most of mankind are heedless and veiled from the original purpose, except those whom thy Lord willeth   BH11036

The attraction of the verses hath seized the realm of reality, yet the heedless are in a mighty veil.   BH06106

The vain imaginings of men have seized them and deprived them from the shore of the Most Great Ocean.   BH03163

Grieve not over the condition of those who are heedless today. Soon shall they bewail their own souls.   BH03365

"yet the people remain heedless of it. Blessed is he who hath attained, and woe unto the heedless ones"   BH10952

Thus hath the Nightingale warbled and the Divine Lote-Tree spoken, yet most of the people are heedless.   BH09156

Yet all remained heedless and veiled from Him... they are observed wandering in the wilderness of error   BH05017

All creation lies dead and unconscious in the graves of nature - they are heedless and entirely unaware   AB06732

yet the people have concealed themselves behind the veil...yet the eyes of men have been blinded to them  AB11072

Nevertheless, some among the servants remain veiled from the Truth through utterly worthless imaginings.   BH07527

Their vain desires have kept them back from God, their Creator. They are indeed among the heedless ones.   BH05739

This is a Day wherein the atoms cry out with their loudest voice, yet most of the people remain heedless.  BH05289

yet the heedless servants remain veiled and deprived of the breezes of the days and of what has appeared   BH04895

The world is heedless - be ye aware. All are asleep - be ye wakeful. All are stupefied - be ye conscious.  AB08079

Indeed, they did not even read. Therefore, the result of this ignorance has become the present condition.  AB03672

Behold the people and their heedlessness after their expectation, and their turning away after their hopes   BH09602

the people remain in heedlessness and hypocrisy, save those whom God hath protected as a token of His grace  BH06661

Today the verses of God are cast upon all and pass before all, yet all are heedless save whom God willeth.   BH00665

The call of the All-Merciful has been raised amidst all created things, yet most of the people are as dead.   BH10188

Glory be to God! What ignorance is this... Vain are their deeds, and alas, alas for what they are promised!   AB06352

The verses have been sent down and the clear tokens have appeared, yet the people remain in evident veiling.   BH07894

Heedlessness and pride have so seized those souls that their condition surpasseth description by pen and ink.   BH03670

We have, for a while, tarried amongst this people, and failed to discern the slightest response on their part.  BHU0062

On this day all things are engaged in the remembrance of God and speak thereof, yet the servants remain heedless  BH10937

yet most are found to be heedless and turning away from it... Nevertheless, the people remain veiled and remote   BH08440

But the people heard not what they were commanded, and We found them struck down. He is indeed the All-Informed.  BH04025

Verily, the people have remained heedless of the remembrance of their Lord after waiting for centuries and ages!  AB09015

They have remained heedless of that which profiteth them and have turned away from that which draweth them nigh.   BH05582

But those who were invited did not respond to the call due to their ignorance, heedlessness, pride and arrogance.  AB09058

yet still the frozen ones remain lifeless, motionless and spiritless: "Thou hearest from them not even a whisper."  AB08192

Yet those who were invited did not respond to the call, due to their ignorance, heedlessness, pride and vainglory.  AB09058

The world hath been adorned through the appearance of the Ancient King, and yet most of the people remain heedless   BH03343

This is the Day wherein the birds warble, seized by the rapture of the Manifestation, yet the people perceive not.   BH06322

All things have been attracted by the fragrances of Our Most Exalted Word, yet the people are in a strange slumber.   BH06950

India had been encompassed by the darkness of ignorance, and souls were in utmost heedlessness, blind and sightless.  AB04913

Their ears have been prevented from hearkening to the melodies of revelation and their eyes from this gracious scene   BH10079

The fragrances of divine revelation have permeated the world, yet the servants remain heedless and veiled therefrom.   BH08456

for the waters of heedlessness have encompassed all lands - soon shalt thou find their inhabitants among the drowned   BH04761

The Divine Lote-Tree hath called aloud, yet the people are in strange delusion... the people were in doubt and schism  BH08204

They have cast the Book behind their backs and have taken the books of fancy from the daysprings of idle imaginings.   BH04808

The resplendent lights and endless bounties are manifest, yet the blind remain veiled and concealed behind a curtain.  AB10961

yet most of the people remain behind an evident veil, their vain imaginings having prevented them from the days of God  BH05100

Most of creation standeth in the wilderness of bewilderment - they hear but understand not, they see but perceive not.  BH02998

The world hath been illumined by the lights of thy Lord's countenance, yet most of the people are in manifest darkness   BH09253

yet the peoples have turned away therefrom, having followed every carved idol... yet most of the people understand not   BH08355

yet most people remain heedless. They have cast the Book of God behind their backs and followed every rebellious satan   BH06176

The world hath been honored by the appearance of God, the Lord of all nations, yet most of the people remain heedless.   BH05874

these days wherein God calleth aloud with the most exalted call: "Unto Me, unto Me, O concourse of the heedless ones!"   BH05341

yet the people remain in heedlessness and hypocrisy. Among them is he who sees a straw as silver and darkness as light   BH03683

yet the people have turned away. They have denied the favor of God and His signs, and have turned aside from the Truth   BH10317

Say: The Book speaketh, yet most of the people are heedless. Say: The Balance moveth, yet most of the people are asleep.  BH04085

They imagine they see, but I swear by My life they are a blind people. They hear the call of God, yet turn away from it.   BH08940

Today the Truth is manifest and the Kingdom of Utterance is present before all faces, yet all remain heedless and veiled   BH08163

The rivers have flowed, the rains have descended, and the seas have swelled, yet the people remain heedless and in loss.   BH06961

most are veiled and deprived thereof. They have not recognized the ocean of justice nor become aware of the Sun of Truth   BH06070

He hath indeed come with the truth, sent down His proof, and made manifest His way, yet most of the people are heedless.   BH00551

How many a servant awaited the days of God and His appearance, yet when He appeared, denied God, the Mighty, the Loving.   BH08880

The world hath been encompassed by the dust of vain imaginings which hath concealed the Morn of the Day of His appearance.  BH09665

yet the people remain wrapped in slumber. The wine of idle fancy hath so seized them that they are not roused by the Call   BH07728

Associate with the people, for they know not - had they known, they would circle round the Cause at eventide and at dawn.   BH03715

Yet most of the people of earth remain heedless and veiled, for they have all clung to the sources of fancy and delusion.   BH02590

Those souls who are ignorant of the root of the Cause strive with the utmost cunning and deception to lead others astray.   BH00595

Since people have not become aware of this station, they remain wandering in the wilderness of remoteness and bewilderment   BH09974

How many an ignorant one claimeth knowledge without proof or clear Book, and how many a transgressor claimeth faith in God!   BH08908

The Rock cries out with its loudest voice: The Lord of all creation has come, while the people remain behind a mighty veil.   BH05081

In the farthest regions of America souls have awakened while the people of Iran are still caught in the sleep of negligence.  AB03406

But alas, for the unfaithful ones that light became the cause of denial, and that universal mercy became an eternal torment   AB07262

But alas, a hundred times alas, that the blind did not see it, and a thousand regrets that the veiled ones did not behold it.  AB09565

Yet when the divine light dawned from the horizon of oneness, all remained occupied with their own desires and remote from Him  BH10556

Yet they turned away from Him and turned instead to the dayspring of idle fancy, who had no knowledge whatsoever of His Cause   BH05210

The people are very heedless... But the Iranians themselves are heedless of this great bounty and unaware of this mighty favor  ABU2242

Nevertheless, all are seen to be occupied with their selfish desires and are heedless thereof, save those whom God hath willed   BH08165

The entire world had been awaiting this blessed Day, yet after its appearance all remained dormant save those whom God willed.   BH05934

and yet the heedless servants lie prostrate in the graves of negligence, neither arising at the cry nor awakening at the trump   BH05088

We have created all things for the days of God, which have appeared and shone forth, yet the people remain heedless and veiled   BH03631

By God, the reality of glad tidings takes pride in giving them glad tidings, but people are heedless of this most great bounty.   BH03016

The servants remain heedless and veiled, occupied with that which is transient and deprived of the presence of the Eternal One.   BH08147

Yet if the divine dispensary is closed, due to their extreme heedlessness people express joy. What profound negligence this is.   ABU2458

Had the people known, they would not have cast the Command of God behind their backs, nor would they have hesitated in this Cause   BH09459

They have cast the path of God behind their backs, clinging to the ropes of the manifestations of idle fancies and vain imaginings.  BH06115

The Call has been raised from this noble Scene, whereby the call of all things was raised, yet most of the people remain heedless.   BH05807

The world hath been illumined by the lights of the countenance of its Lord, the All-Merciful, yet most of creation perceive it not.  BH11864

Most of the people of the earth today are heedless and veiled, while thou, through God's grace, art assured and turning toward Him.   BH08444

Glory be to God! Such heedlessness hath seized the people of Iran that they have taken abasement for glory and loss for mighty gain.  BH02220

They have clung to vain imaginings, turning away from the Sun of Certainty. Thus have their souls deluded them, and they do not see.   BH10696

To such a degree has heedlessness encompassed mankind that they occupy themselves night and day with aught save God, and are unaware.  BH08773

Yet all people are observed to be heedless and asleep, nay, dead, save those whom God, the Self-Subsisting, the Guardian, has willed.   BH07228

All who dwell on earth were created to attain unto this station, and yet most of them are seen to be heedless, turned away, and veiled   BH09656

yet the people remain in heedlessness and error. Among them are those who cling to vain imaginings, and those who circle round the fly   BH07726

How many among the great ones and the learned are today heedless of the Self-Subsisting and deprived of the Choice Wine that is sealed.  BH11666

The land of Syria hath been perfumed by His advent, and Sinai hath attained to His appearance, while the people remain in a mighty veil.  BH07434

Such heedlessness hath seized them that they have denied the revelation of God and His bounty. They are indeed among the perishing ones.  BH06629

But alas, the people of that land are still heedless and unaware. Soon they will awaken, become conscious, and express pride and glory.   AB03704

"Alas! now that He has appeared with the sound of Trumpet and the hosts of Angels, they are drowned in the sea of negligence and sleep."  ABU0814

The contingent world hath been adorned with the appearance of the All-Merciful, yet the people remain in heedlessness and behind a veil.   BH05818

The Beloved of the world of being is present in this land, but they are oblivious. All are heedless; all are unaware; all are uninformed.  BHU0071

But alas, a thousand times alas! The eyes see it not, the ears are deaf, and the hearts and minds are oblivious of this supreme bestowal.  AB00948

In any case, most of the people of the world remain heedless of that for which they were created and brought from nothingness into being.   BH02387

The Purpose is manifest and the Promised One evident, the Sun of grace is visible and the heaven of bounty raised up, yet all are deprived.  BH03044

What aileth these people that they understand not a single word from God, the Lord of the glorious Throne and the Lord of the exalted Seat!   BH11184

Soon they shall see themselves in manifest loss, and they shall continue to see it. Leave them in their vain discourse to amuse themselves.   AB04689

Heedlessness hath encompassed those on earth by reason of that which their hands have wrought without leave from God, the Ancient Commander.   BH04786

Yet when the world was illumined with the lights of the dawn of Revelation, all peoples were found heedless and veiled, save whom God willed.  BH03446

But heedlessness and ignorance have prevented man from that which would profit them. This is the recompense of deeds on the day of reckoning.  BH02241

Some negligent men think that the spring season has concluded and nothing but winter remains. They are immersed in their own vain imaginings.  ABU1172

Every edifice hath been raised in My Name, and every station hath been exalted through My remembrance, yet most of the people understand not.   BH09031

Would that the servants knew! Would that the people understood! For if they became aware and discovered the Purpose, all would turn toward Him   BH10983

The eyes of the world have been afflicted with the ophthalmia of vain imaginings, depriving them from beholding the lights of the Sun of Truth.  BH05973

The vain imaginings of the servants have prevented them from the Dawning-Place of Divine revelation and the Dayspring of the Sun of certitude.   BH02544

Heedlessness hath overtaken the dwellers of the earth, save those whose eyes have been opened by the light of God, the Mighty, the All-Luminous.  BH01527

The world was created for the recognition of the Ancient King, yet its people denied the divine proof and rose up in ingratitude for His favors.  BH09719

Such a heavenly Gift God brought for them, but they did not appreciate it. Such Divine Music was played for them, but they did not listen to it.  ABU2136

By the life of God! The Pen crieth out and the Tongue speaketh, yet the people are among the ignorant ones, nay rather, among those who slumber.   BH07754

yet We have found the people to be as dead. They have cast the ocean of knowledge behind their backs, turning instead to every remote ignorant one.  BH09531

They have cast the station of God behind their backs and followed every heedless and remote one. Soon shall they find themselves in manifest loss.   BH06419

As for those who are heedless, they are truly among the dead. They have deprived themselves of the pure wine that giveth life to the sincere ones.   BH04545

The earth has been transformed and the mountains have passed away and another heaven has been raised up, yet most among the people remain heedless.   BH08487

Yet when the Sun of Truth dawned and the heaven of bounty was raised up and the ocean of generosity appeared, all remained veiled, nay, turned away   BH04432

I have appeared and made manifest that which was recorded in the Books of God and treasured up in His knowledge; yet most of the people are as dead.  BH11669

We see them in heedlessness and in their ancient stupor. Do thou remind them with wisdom, that perchance My wondrous remembrance may influence them.   BH04502

Yet the souls who were brought from nothingness into being for the recognition of this blessed Day remain heedless and veiled, save whom God willeth.   BH06421

Behold! The things that had been mentioned in the Books of old have now appeared, and yet the people, though they look upon them, comprehend them not!  BH01217

but the blind are still in great error...but the deaf are still muffled in thick veils...but the dumb are still continuing in their astounding silence  AB10185

All heard the call, but with contaminated ears; for had they hearkened with attentive ears, they would surely have been enabled to turn and draw near.   BH08892

The heedlessness and darkness that lay concealed in the innermost reality of those souls became manifest in the days of the dawning of the Sun of Truth  BH08570

Those who are heedless shall soon find themselves in manifest loss... They are weak and have not attained maturity. They know not what profiteth them.   BH04017

The world is in motion through the magnetic force of the Word of the Lord of Eternity, yet the servants remain heedless thereof, save whom God willeth.  BH09436

This is naught but due to the heedlessness of souls, else the sun is far distinct from the shadow, and the flower is clearly evident from its likeness.   BH05698

Those who are heedless are indeed remote - they are truly of the people of fire. Soon shall punishment come upon them and they shall find no protector.   BH02289

yet all remain heedless and veiled therefrom. The wine of selfish desire hath so seized them that none possessing understanding or awareness can be found  BH07694

This is the Day of Resurrection, yet the people perceive it not. This is the Day of Loss and Gain, and of Recompense, yet most among mankind know it not.  BH05487

They appear as sheep that have lost their shepherd, scattered and distracted, wandering in the wilderness of heedlessness and ignorance, and are unaware.  BH00868

"Notwithstanding this, the people are negligent and indifferent, eyes are blinded, ears are deaf, nostrils are choked and understandings are unawakened."  ABU0716

Then We left it and desired to go to the erected palace which God hath made the Greatest Scene of Vision for mankind, but most of the people are sleeping.  BH06963

"Yet the heedless servants remain deniers and turn away. Glory be to God! They behold the signs yet deny them, they hear the call yet turn aside from it."  BH04804

All awaited the days of attainment, yet when the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, appeared, they turned away from Him and followed every ignorant remote one   BH07826

yet the people remain in heedlessness and schism. They have clung to vain imaginings after the Sun of Certitude hath shone forth from this manifest horizon   BH07442

Say: Verily the Sun hath risen in truth and reached its zenith, yet ye have not turned to its rays but remain as dead ones within the veils of your selves.   BH02165

We summoned the servants unto the Lord of Creation but they turned away in such wise as caused the dwellers of earth and every discerning person to lament.   BH06162

The people are engaged in their vain pursuits, are immersed in the depths of waywardness, and are bewildered in their drunkenness, yet they perceive it not   AB05456

And he who was prevented, he was deprived of the breezes of the days of attainment and the fragrances of union - verily he is among those who understand not   BH07055

The ignorance of God's creatures hath darkened the resplendent horizon of knowledge; the heedlessness of the people hath veiled the radiant dawn of guidance.  BH03510

Despite this, half a century has elapsed while humanity remains in continuous slumber. What heedlessness is this! What ignorance! What loss! What deprivation!  AB08573

At the time of each Manifestation of God the people were heedless and ignorant of the truth except for a few who investigated and understood the divine words.  ABU2465

Among the people are those who have turned toward it and those who have turned away, and he who hath turned away is assuredly among the companions of the Fire   BH07308

Verily the Hidden One hath come with the truth, yet the people understand not. And the Treasured One hath appeared through grace, yet the people perceive not.   BH05627

Yet certain dead souls, withered by the veils of their own imaginations, remained deprived of this ancient bounty and remote and bereft of this profound favor.  AB07612

yet most people hear not. Their own desires have prevented them from that which floweth from the right hand of the Throne, and they are indeed among the fallen   BH04978

Think not ill of God, and be not of those who through false learned ones remain heedless of God's religion and turn not unto the religion of God, the Most High.  BH11774

The heedless and ignorant ones have ever clung to their vain imaginings and turned away from the Dawning-Place of divine revelation and the Source of inspiration   BH06329

How many a servant awaited the days of the Manifestation, yet when He appeared rejected Him and disputed with the verses of God when they were sent down in truth.  BH07804

Yet after its appearance the heedless people are seen to be deprived, as though they had never heard mention of the Day of God. Woe unto them, then woe unto them!   BH08119

All things have testified to the Lord of Names, yet most of the people remain heedless. The ocean of assurance hath appeared, yet the people are in manifest doubt.   BH06935

But the majority of mankind are like unto the children, who are being rocked in a cradle. The harder they are rocked to be awakened, the deeper they fall into sleep  ABU1256

Reflect upon the heedlessness of the people, who all utter the words "May God hasten His coming," yet not a single soul hath understood what this allusion signifieth  BH06611

Yet the people remain in the darkness of blindness, in the depths of the nethermost abyss, in the layers of supreme regret, and in the pits of ignorance and passion.  AB08419

Among the people are those who imagine that the Command hath been revealed in vain, and others who testify that it was revealed for naught but the life of the worlds.  BH11793

Clear proofs have appeared, verses have been sent down, and that which was recorded in the Books of God hath come to pass, and yet most of the people remain heedless.   BH01498

The heedless people are themselves the preventers of divine bounties, and through their impure deeds and false words have deprived themselves of God's infinite favors.   BH01368

Mankind are naturally heedless and prone to commit injustice and excess. They do not turn their faces toward God and do not let their hearts be swayed by ideal emotions.  ABU2009

Praised be God! The heedless ones are still asleep in utter oblivion. Leave them deeply engrossed in their slumber, disporting themselves and persisting in their denial.  AB05413

But a thousand times Alas that the eyes are blind and the ears are deaf and the intellects are weak. Therefore they are deprived of these heavenly, inexhaustible Graces.   ABU1630

When the law of prayer was revealed in the time of the Messenger, the idolaters would prevent their ears from hearing the call to prayer and would count hearing it as evil.  BH03732

but alas, a thousand times alas, that imperfect souls and heedless hearts, like black stones, remained deprived, despairing and veiled from the radiance of the sun and moon  AB09853

the heedlessness of the peoples of the world hath reached such a pass that they distinguish not between good and evil, nor do they differentiate between truth and falsehood   BH03856

The whole world speaketh His Name yet is veiled from Him, turneth toward His countenance yet is debarred from Him, maketh mention of His Name yet is heedless of His Command.  BH03300

The gift of God consists in all glory and wisdom, vision and hearing. But what benefit is there when the foolish pursue blindness and deafness and muteness and estrangement?  AB08048

yet most of humanity hath not seen or comprehended. The promised Herald calleth out and raiseth His voice between earth and heaven, yet the servants are not drawn to hearken   BH06523

yet most of the people hear not. They have cast behind their backs the Cause of God, yet they understand not...yet the people remain lost in idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH05832

yet the people remain in evident veils. They hear not the call of the Spirit, nor do they see that which hath dawned from the horizon of the Tablet - nay, they are as the dead  BH04636

The Day has come, yet the people are in evident veils. Their possessions have occupied them and their desires have held them back. Verily, they persist in their ancient error.   BH03169

Until now, God's purpose remaineth unknown to the people of the cities of tyranny and oppression. They wander in the wilderness of heedlessness and traverse the valley of greed   BH09649

The deed is manifest and His grace evident, and yet the people persist in obvious falsehood. Well is it with him who hath heard and responded, and woe betide the heedless ones.   BH08533

It is amazing that people are afraid of physical plagues, but have no worries of spiritual calamities. They are heedless of being inflicted with a myriad of spiritual catastrophes  ABU2991

The people have been seized with such intoxication of vain desire that they have turned away from God, the Lord of all creation, except those who have held fast to My strong cord.   BH08941

How many kings and subjects, sovereigns and queens awaited the Days of God, yet after the appearance of the Divine Day all were occupied with their own desires and veiled from Him   BH07948

The Sun of Justice hath appeared with utmost brilliance and effulgence from the horizon of the heaven of grace, manifest and evident, yet all remain heedless save whom God willeth.  BH11023

[But] now it appears this is not so - the human world is so deeply immersed in the sleep of negligence that it will not awaken from these terrifying events and severe occurrences.   AB02963

These divine effulgences have enveloped the Orient and Occident, but the eyes know not how to perceive, the intelligences are weak and so men are deprived and are in manifest loss.  ABU0819

What regret and remorse that people should deprive themselves of the outpourings of the Divine Day! Say: Ponder on that which hath been sent down for you and be not of the heedless.  BH07606

It is as though I see you on that Day reciting these verses while ye remain veiled, even as ye now read the Qur'an though it is entirely about My remembrance, yet ye perceive it not.  BB00004

In the nights and days We have summoned the servants to that which would cause the elevation of the Word and the advancement of souls. Yet most were found heedless, nay, turned away.   BH06556

The fragrances of revelation have perfumed the world and the luminary of utterance has illumined all regions, yet there exists no eye to behold it, nor any ear to hearken to its call.   BH04936

Today the breezes of revelation have perfumed the world and the fragrances of utterance have encompassed creation, yet the servants are heedless and turned away, save whom God willeth   BH04109

My purpose in all this is to show how unobservant are the people of the world and how ignorant, and on the day of the establishment of the Kingdom, they remain heedless and negligent.   AB02090

Glory be to God! The proofs of the world bow down in prostration while the servants remain heedless. All things are engaged in glorification and praise, yet the people remain deprived.   BH06522

Yet all remain heedless and veiled. What hath prevented thee from beholding, and likewise from hearkening to the call raised from the direction of the Divine Throne by day and by night?  BH01278

Most of the people of the world are observed to be like cattle, deprived of understanding and bereft of comprehension. In all ages and centuries they have acted as they do in these days.  BH09152

They have become heedless of Thy Cause through that which their hands have formerly wrought and through their following those whom they have taken as masters for themselves besides Thee   BH08014

My Pen, which hath never been still in the days of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy, moveth at all times and speaketh amidst all created things, yet most of the people remain heedless.   BH07093

Men of might and valor remain unaware of the cause of their own creation, for had they become conscious of it, they would not have deprived themselves of the dawning of the divine light   BH07045

The peoples of the world, despite their searching and expectation, are observed to be heedless. The people are occupied with the people, and remain heedless of and veiled from the Truth   BH06988

Yet most of them are heedless... yet they, in their own vain imaginings, count themselves among the thoughtful... yet most people do not understand... yet most people remain far removed.  BH03371

They hear the Call of God, then deny it. Verily, they know not. They behold the Most Great Relief, yet they understand not. They follow their vain desires and imagine they are doing good.  BH07406

Yet alas, the Iranians are still like the blind and deaf, caught in the sleep of heedlessness - they see not the light, hear not the call, receive not awareness, and become not conscious.  AB03195

We have sent down the verses and manifested the signs, but most of the people know not. We beseech God to assist those who are heedless today and draw them nigh unto this forbidden station.  BH09986

The people of the earth remain heedless and occupied with their own vain imaginings. They have regarded the Dawning-Place of light as darkness and deemed the Ocean of knowledge as ignorant.   BH04000

Yet those who are benumbed and frozen, like bats of the night, are veiled from witnessing these signs. Woe unto them for this overwhelming darkness that has gained dominion over their sight!  AB10528

yet most of the people are heedless!" The Most Exalted Pen hath moved upon the Luminous Page, and the Tongue of Grandeur hath spoken between earth and heaven, yet the people do not understand  BH07788

The wine of vain desires hath so seized them that they have been kept back from the Lord of all beings, Who speaketh the truth: "There is none other God but Me, the Forgiving, the Generous."   BH04820

this ailing body and abject form might be saved from the heat and burning thirst of waywardness and ignorance, and from the intensity and agitation of the pains of heedlessness and impotence   AB02734

However, most of the people are among the heedless. They have cast the principles of God behind their backs and taken their own limitations. Verily they are among those who wander distracted.   BH10502

yet the people remain wrapped in heedlessness and veils. The pillars of the world have trembled from the fear of God, the Lord of all nations, yet most of the people remain in doubt and schism  BH06245

In these days when the peoples of the world are veiled by the greatest of veils and occupied with affairs of heedlessness and deprived of the truth of the wisdom underlying the creation of Adam  AB09538

Still people do not awaken. "Weak are the seeker and the sought, and they worship besides God that which neither benefits nor harms them - evil indeed is the patron and evil is the associate."   AB03675

We behold the people in a strange sleep and manifest doubt. They possess neither that which would lead them to the good-pleasure of God, nor that which would attract them to the Supreme Horizon.   BH05283

The voice of the Nightingale hath been raised, yet most of the people are among the heedless ones. The Tongue of Grandeur proclaimeth, yet most of the people are among those who wander distraught.   BH10897

The world has been honored by the call of My Name, the Self-Subsisting, yet the people remain behind a thick veil. How many learned ones have turned away from God, how many heroes have opposed Him   BH08296

This is the Day wherein the letters Ha' and Ba' cry out between earth and heaven, and the Dove of Divine Knowledge warbleth upon the branch of utterance, yet most of the people are sunk in slumber.  BH06382

Although the people are observed to be in such heedlessness that its mention is beyond both pen and tongue, yet the divine Will and Purpose has been and shall ever be triumphant and all-pervading.   BH01505

In these days when the people of the world are veiled by the most great veils and occupied with the affairs of heedlessness and deprived of the reality of the wisdom underlying the creation of Adam  AB09538

But alas, the sleeping did not awaken, the deaf did not hear, the blind did not see, the frozen did not ignite, and the ignorant did not learn. This is everlasting regret and this is endless loss.   AB02421

Behold the people and their heedlessness - they have taken the drop and cast the ocean behind them. Thus have their souls enticed them, and they are today among the transgressors in My mighty Book.   BH04469

O concourse of creation! The Greatest Veil hath been rent asunder and the Greatest Scene hath been adorned through the revelation of God, the Lord of Destiny; yet most of the people remain heedless.  BH01292

This was a general rule in all dispensations and cycles that strangers would become familiar while those familiar ones who were from the homeland of the Manifestation of Truth would remain strangers.  AB00937

"The transient, accidental conditions have prevented the people from hearing and seeing - neither are their ears worthy to hear nor their eyes fit to behold. By God's life! They are in manifest loss"   BH05515

but the people are in delusion, then in conjecture, then in doubt, then in drunkenness and heedlessness and in a veil thicker than all thick things and heavier than the weight of the heavens and earth   BH10843

Observe mankind and their lack of recognition - they deny him who enjoineth upon them what is right, and condemn him who desireth their preservation in the kingdom of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.  BH06354

The fragrance of the garment has wafted through creation, yet the people remain in far-off heedlessness. The breezes of spring have blown in the days of God, yet the people remain behind a thick veil.   BH04740

And when We manifested the Cause, the hearts of the mighty were seized with trembling, and the foundations of princes were shaken. Yet the people remain dead, shrouded in the veils of their own selves.  BH11806

Verily, those who are heedless this Day - these shall have no portion of this Sealed Wine. The seas have been set ablaze by the fire of the Word of the All-Chosen One, yet the evil ones perceive it not.   BH07767

Consider how they prostrate themselves on the sands that at one time may have been honored by the footsteps of Christ and His Apostles, but are now heedless of the Lord of Hosts! Amazing, amazing, amazing!  ABU2231

Most people cling to their own vain imaginings and remain heedless of the Sovereign of verses. They have preferred conjecture to true knowledge and have contented themselves with doubt instead of certitude   BH07609

These are days wherein all have taken their vain desires as their god and dust as the Lord of Lords. In such circumstances, whom should the Pen mention and by what merit should the Tongue of Grandeur sing?   BH03995

In this time the affliction of cholera has encompassed all regions of Iran, that perchance the heedless might become aware. But what use, for the reproofs of the All-Loving Lord have no effect on hard rock   AB11848

Yet the people of Iran, despite the appearance of this mighty Cause, this supreme honor and greatest gift, are observed lying unconscious in the wilderness of ignorance with utmost heedlessness and lethargy.  BH00171

Notwithstanding all this I do see very few who are really mindful; nay rather day by day their negligence is increased. Few are praying or supplicating or invoking God to turn away these ordeals from mankind  ABU0794

That which hath enraptured the denizens of the most exalted Paradise hath been sent down, yet most of the people are wrapped in heedlessness and error. They have forsaken their God, clinging to their desires.  BH02822

Pay no attention to the fact that the people of London are caught in heedlessness - indeed all the world is afflicted with self-interest and selfish desires and is occupied day and night with worldly pursuits  AB04793

Such is the heedlessness of the people that whatsoever occurreth and they witness with their own eyes, they neither accept nor take heed, nor do they raise their heads from the slumber of negligence and pride.  BH06759

The inanimate objects have testified to the Lord of all beings, yet the people remain behind a mighty veil. There is nothing that hath not borne witness to this Cause, yet the people persist in manifest doubt.   BH05831

Were the people to know, they would expend all they possess, even their very souls, that My Most Exalted Pen might move upon their names, yet today they remain veiled by following the daysprings of idle fancies   BH04681

He who is heedless knoweth not the sweetness of wakefulness...They run from the wise to the heedless, and from the learned to the ignorant. They distinguish not between what harmeth them and what profiteth them.  BH04049

yet the heedless servants are seen to be, for the most part, turning away and denying. They walk in the wilderness of idle fancies, unaware of the Sun of certitude which hath dawned from the horizon of God's will  BH06010

How many among men arose to oppose and contend at the time of the dawning of the Sun of Beauty, and were thus forbidden from the ocean of the All-Merciful's mercy and the clouds of the All-Glorious One's bounty.   BH08302

Yet when it shone forth from the horizon of the world, most of mankind turned away, save those souls who broke the chains of imitation through the name of the Almighty and turned toward the horizon of the Cause.   BH05107

Every stone and clod hath spoken that which the Book hath spoken, yet the people remain in doubt and dissension. When the Call was raised, they turned away and clung to their own idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH08360

All things have voiced the remembrance and praise of God, yet most people remain in doubt and discord. The Most Great Ocean hath surged and spoken in the name of the Ancient Lord, yet most nations are as the dead.   BH04788

Indeed, the face of the world hath been turned toward irreligion. In all years, nay in all months, nay in all days, it hath been far from faith, certitude and knowledge, and close to conjecture and vain imaginings.   BH05695

Today the people are seen to be blind and deaf, save the soul who, through the breezes of the grace of the Dawn of Manifestation, lifted its head from the couch of heedlessness and turned toward the supreme horizon.   BH08380

This is the Day wherein the Mother Book speaks, yet most of the people neither know nor hear. The proof has been perfected and the Cry has been raised and the Rock has cried out, yet most of the people are heedless.   BH03281

The eye of creation hath not witnessed any more heedless than these, for they deny that whereby they pride themselves above all the peoples of the earth and whereby their faith is established, yet they perceive not.   BH01285

However, these people are like children in the cradle, the more you rock them, the sleepier they get. No benefit is seen when God bestows His infinite bounty and grace upon them, and indeed they become more heedless.  ABU1126

Nevertheless, most people remain veiled and heedless. The cause of this heedlessness are those souls who, in former ages and countless centuries, prevented people from the Kawthar of the utterance of the All-Merciful.  BH02644

The cause and reason for the veiling of the people hath been and will continue to be the most great veil, which is the ignorance that the ignorant ones of the earth have bound unto themselves in the name of knowledge.   BH08028

The world hath been laid waste by vain imaginings. Glory be to God! Despite all they have seen and heard, they again associate with the barking ones. What do they intend to perceive and what do they wish to understand?  BH05028

The treasures have been revealed and the storehouses have appeared, yet most of the people remain heedless. They have clung to vain imaginings, turning away from Him through Whose name the gate of certitude was opened.   BH08042

By the life of God! The eyes and ears were created to behold and hearken in this Day, but the heedless and ignorant servants have become veiled. They have prevented the letter from the word, and the word from the Book.   BH02791

Today the ocean of bounty is surging and the sun of grace is shining, yet people remain prevented. For ages and centuries they awaited His appearance, yet when He was made manifest they arose to shed His most pure blood   BH07377

The standards have been raised, the verses sent down, and the evidences made manifest, yet most of the people remain heedless. They have cast the Cause of God behind their backs - verily, they are among the abject ones.   BH05781

We have sent down the verses and manifested the clear proofs, yet most of the people hear not. They have cast away that for which they were created and have taken up that which was forbidden unto them in the Book of God   BH03517

The Divine Lote-Tree calleth out with the loudest voice, yet most of the people remain heedless. They who are heedless this day of My choice sealed wine - these have no portion in God's Book, the Mighty, the All-Praised.   BH01244

Glory be to God! What heedlessness hath encompassed the hearts and minds! After witnessing and observing the world of power, might, mercy and bounty, they pass it by and occupy themselves with matters unworthy of mention.  BH00674

As for those who have forbidden themselves the spiritual feast and the breaths of the Spirit of God, they are dead, not living, and for them there is no permanence, neither in this worldly abode nor in the Kingdom of God.  AB08995

"We bear witness that they were not awakened by the Cry, nor were they stirred by the breezes of Revelation, nor did they attain to the recognition of Him Whom they mentioned in their days and desired to meet at all times."  BH02400

O Haydar! Upon thee be the glory of God, and the glory of the heaven of My mercy, and the sun of My favors. The heedlessness of the people hath reached such a pass that the Kingdom of Utterance hath been bidden to silence.   BH01496

Yet some have been hindered by their selfish desires, such that thou dost witness that although, by the belief of all, mankind was created specifically for the knowledge of God, they remain veiled from Him and turn to others.  BH06123

yet the people deny and perceive not. The fragrance of the Beloved hath wafted throughout the world, yet the people detect it not. The mysteries have been revealed and the signs have appeared, yet the servants understand not.   BH08273

Although His verses have filled the horizons and His evidences have encompassed the world, yet the people remain heedless and veiled. God hath seized their sight, their hearing, their minds and their hearts by their own deeds.  BH00809

But in this mighty century when the call was raised from the Blessed Tree of Anisa, the Divine Lote Tree, the Beauty of Abha, most turned away and brought forth a hundred thousand excuses and objections and closed their eyes.   AB06347

Yet the people hear not. The veils have covered their sight, and the clouds have enshrouded their eyes. Lo! They understand not. They behold the Lord of Lords established upon the throne of might, yet from Him they turn aside.   BH06934

The world is receptive and its people are heedless. They seek after thorns and thistles - that is, vain imaginings and idle fancies - while turning away from the pearls of utterance, clinging instead to pebbles and date-stones.   BH10707

The Book hath been sent down and the All-Bountiful hath come, yet the people remain behind a manifest veil. The Trumpet hath been sounded when the Dawning-Place of Revelation appeared, but the people are in grievous dissension.   BH08358

As for him who hath turned away, he hath not answered My call in the days of My manifestation, nor hath he turned his face toward My countenance in any age, and he shall be mentioned as the rebellious one in the presence of God   BH08288

At present the representatives are heedless and know not from whence this melody comes, nor that this light emanates from the Sun of Reality. But eventually they will know, eventually they will acknowledge and confess this truth  AB03131

However, some of them were heedless of the influences of the Most Exalted Pen - they did not know what was the cause of this honor. Rather, they fell into heedlessness and pride and did not appreciate the value of these bounties.  ABU2819

God has made such a glorious Sun as this to shine from the horizon of the East, and yet the Persians are still fast asleep. How often has perpetual fortune knocked at a person's door, only for him to reject it with all his might!  ABU3672

Today all people are intoxicated with the sleep of negligence and deprived of the favors of the Divine Unity. They are without portion from the Most Great Bounty and are deprived and far from the effulgences of the Sun of Reality.   AB05130

Consider what heedlessness does! According to the text of Isaiah, they were expecting Christ to come from heaven, to come from an unknown place, and when Christ came the mountains would crumble and there would be a great earthquake.  ABU0421

These days are the days of God and are most great. Yet the heedless servants are deprived of the fragrances of these days. Though this Most Great Ocean surges before the faces of the world, they have not attained unto a drop thereof.   BH07383

Such is the way of the people who have forsaken the Truth, the Mighty, the Dawning-Place of certitude, and who remain occupied with their own idle fancies. Soon shall they become aware of their deeds and shall lament over themselves.   BH06488

The clear proofs have appeared and the verses have been sent down, yet most of the people perceive not. The Tree uttereth in the midst of the Kingdom a call that encompasseth all who are in the world, yet most of the people are asleep   BH05458

The Call of the All-Merciful is raised, yet most of the servants are deprived of hearing it. The Countenance of the Ancient One has dawned from the Orient of the world, yet most people's eyes are veiled and prevented from beholding it.  BH03914

Such was the condition of those servants who were heedless of the remembrance of their Lord, the Most High, the Most Great... Then praise God for having recognized the Manifestation of His Self, from Whom most men have remained heedless.   BH04731

Yet when the expanse of the world was illumined by the lights of the Sun of Revelation and the Promised One was seated upon His mighty throne, all remained heedless and veiled, nay rather, they turned away and denied, save for a few souls.  BH00929

As for those who have remained heedless of the Truth and His sovereignty - their names shall not be mentioned before the Throne, and they shall ere long return to their abode in the fire. He, verily, is the Just, the All-Knowing, the Wise.  BH11623

We have sent down the verses and manifested the clear proofs, yet most of the people remain heedless. The rivers have flowed and the trees have yielded their fruit and the mysteries have been revealed, yet most of the people remain asleep.   BH05611

they wailed and cried out and supplicated at their separation from the Dawning-Place of the revelation of their Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing. Yet when the veils were rent asunder and the Promised One appeared, they rose up against Him   BH04928

The Truth hath come, yet the people remain behind a manifest veil. The Promise hath appeared, yet mankind abideth in strange delusion. The horizon of divine knowledge hath dawned with the Day-Star of certitude, yet most men remain heedless.   BH08313

Reference to spiritual blindness: "What business have earthbound fowl with the boundless ocean? What yearning have the blind for the radiant sun? The Truth hath appeared like the shining sun, Alas that It hath come to the city of the blind!"  AB04201

Despite the healing counsels and conclusive admonitions that have been sent down from the Source of Divine Unity in the revealed scriptures, they are seen to be more remote than previous nations and more heedless than all who dwell on earth.   BH00841

Today the opposers of this Cause show the same heedlessness. While the Cause is spreading with the swiftness of lightning, and its great light is blessing nations, its enemies attempt to resist its strength and prevent its beneficent effects.  ABU0997

In Persia we see now the beginning of heedlessness and the first manifestations of neglecting religion. If this state of things is not stopped by the power of the divine teachings, it will soon be chaos and distress, eternal vileness and shame.  AB00245

yet the heedless people remain veiled from the Truth and occupied with vain imaginings, appearing like the peoples of former times. We beseech God to grant justice that they may not be deprived of the outpourings of the True Bestower in His days.   BH02618

Yet when the light of His manifestation shone forth from the horizon of the world, all turned away except whom God willed. Would that they had been content with that! Rather, they committed that which was as a sword cutting down the blessed Tree.   BH03338

"had the people of the Bayan inhaled the fragrance of this blessed Word, they would have turned with their eyes, their hearts and their breasts toward the Court of God. But their heedlessness, nay rather their wretchedness, hath overwhelmed them."   BH06099

The Book of God speaketh the truth, yet the people remain heedless. The eye of creation hath never beheld the like of their condition. The wine of idle fancy hath so seized them that they have been prevented from recognizing the Lord of all beings   BH04801

How veiled are the people! Every hour during the days of Christ they raised a thousand doubts; by every means they sought to undermine the Cause of Christ. Now throughout all regions they give glad tidings in His name. Such is the state of mankind.  ABU2067

The rapture of this call hath seized the Concourse on High, while most of the people remain heedless. The intoxication of vain imaginings hath so seized them that they have cast the Book of God behind their backs. Verily, they are in evident doubt.   BH06224

How many signs and evidences have appeared and continue to appear, yet the people remain heedless. A hundred thousand souls have returned to their abode in fulfillment of what God revealed in the Surih of Ra'is, yet the people have not become aware.  BH02630

And the Lord of Sinai speaketh and most of the people know not. They pass by the signs and look not. They behold the Most Great Scene and yet turn away from it. They come before the Countenance and recognize not. They hear the Call and perceive not.   BH03451

Despite this brilliant, manifest, and radiant light, the world is seen to be dark, for it has become intimate with evil souls. The heedlessness of some has reached such a point that they seek proof from the sun itself and demand evidence from the ocean.  BH00812

All the people are asleep. Why are they so negligent and neglectful of the glorious destiny which His Holiness Baha'u'llah has appointed for them? They must turn their faces toward the Kingdom of Abha; instead they are asleep upon the bed of negligence.  ABU2891

But what can be done that the people are wayward and ignorant, and therefore want a ravening beast, ask for a blood-shedding and voracious person, seek an oppressor and a tyrant. What ignorance is this and what heedlessness and folly in the human world?   AB01675

They will awaken when the caravan has reached its destination, taken shelter in the precinct of the Beloved, and found repose beneath the pavilion of sanctity - while those ignorant and unaware ones remain lost and wandering at the first step of the path  AB09862

Yet most of mankind remain veiled by doubts and idle fancies, such that they are seen to be deprived and debarred from this Most Great Day and supreme bounty. Yet all remain occupied with the buzzing of flies and heedless of the call of the Lord of Lords.   BH06109

Such is the state and station of those souls who have followed their own selves and desires, and remained heedless of the ultimate goal and the most exalted horizon. Fie upon them for what their hands have wrought in the days of God, the Lord of the worlds!  BH11885

Today the clouds of vain desires of heedless souls have become an obstacle and prevented people from the Horizon of Divine Unity. Had they but known, they would have cast away all they possess and hastened with their hearts unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH03996

yet most of the people understand not. We have adorned the world with the ornament of My Most Great Name, yet the nations hasten in the wilderness of heedlessness. They behold the proof of God yet deny it, and witness His clear tokens yet turn away from them.  BH10190

The horizon of the world hath been illumined by the Sun of My Most Great Name, yet most of the people perceive not. The verses have filled all regions, yet the people recognize not. The atoms have testified to the Revealer of verses, yet the people hear not.   BH09841

Nevertheless, the intoxication of the wine of heedlessness has so overtaken them that they have not reflected for a moment on what has caused these successive tribulations and continuous calamities. They are absorbed in their vain imaginings and perceive not.  BH03000

Glory be to God! Where has vision gone and with what thoughts is the heart occupied, that at every moment the veils of heedlessness are seen to grow thicker? They have strayed from God's straight path and clung to the ways of idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH00650

Yet the people remain heedless and veiled, and until now have not reflected upon what has been and is the cause of these events and tribulations. Their eyes have been blinded and their tongues have been silenced, and today they neither understand nor perceive.  BH00263

But a thousand times alas! that the spiritually dead are not awakened through the blowing of the trumpet of the spirit, the blinds ones are deprived of the sight of the world-illuminating Orb and the ones afflicted with cold cannot inhale the odor of sanctity.  AB05001

Strange it is that the heedless, negligent, and outcast souls have neither been awakened by the cry nor become aware through the call. The All-Merciful hath spoken of them in the Qur'an - exalted be His Word - "As though they were hollow trunks of palm-trees."   BH00562

When the morn of His manifestation dawned and the breeze from His raiment wafted, He found them all sunk in the slumber of heedlessness, nay rather, found them lifeless and dead, save those souls who held fast to the firm cord and clung to the hem of His bounty.   BH08458

Although at every moment the world informeth man through its changes of its own extinction and maketh him aware of its passing, yet all are heedless and veiled. They were not stirred by the breezes of the spring of revelation, as if they were uprooted palm-trunks.  BH07958

Be thou steadfast in the remembrance of thy Lord and speaking forth His Name amongst His slumbering servants who, when the Call was raised, were seized by the intoxication of vain desires in such wise that they became heedless of that for which they were created.   BH05388

The horizons have been filled with the signs of your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing, yet the people hear not. The Most Exalted Pen moveth morning and evening, yet the people know not. At all times doth the Tongue of Grandeur speak, yet all beings perceive not.  BH07624

Strange it is that while the Dawn hath appeared and a sweet-scented breeze wafteth with utmost delicacy and gentleness from the direction of the Robe, yet the people of the earth remain heedless and veiled therefrom. A dark smoke hath prevented most from beholding.  BH00430

The heedlessness of the people has reached such a state that they have turned away from One Who has sent down from the heaven of the Divine Will verses sublime and wondrous, equivalent to all previous Books, and they occupy themselves with their own vain imaginings.   BH09219

How many a queen besought her Lord and desired from Him the encounter with His Manifestation in His days, yet when He appeared she was found among the heedless. Thus did the days pass and the matter was accomplished, but most of the people remain among the heedless.   BH05943

Today, all who dwell on earth are heedless and know not the fruits, mysteries and traces of the mention of God, exalted be His glory. The intoxication of heedlessness has seized all and deprived them of the outpourings of the All-Bountiful, save whom thy Lord willeth.  BH11695

"All things are engaged in glorifying and sanctifying the Purpose of the world, yet most of the servants remain veiled and deprived from beholding the lights. The horizon of the world hath been illumined by the Most Great Name, yet most of the peoples remain heedless"   BH06165

Verily He has spoken the truth, but the people do not understand. Verily He has appeared with justice, but mankind does not perceive. Verily He calls out with the most exalted call, but the factions do not hear, save whom God wills, the Protecting, the Self-Subsisting.   BH06332

Despite this, for these blameworthy people the means of awakening become the cause of increased heedlessness. They are like children for whom the rocking of the cradle causes deeper sleep - that is, the movement which should cause awakening results in increased slumber.   AB01845

The heedlessness of the servants hath prevented the divine bounty, and although the errors of the world cannot withhold the Ancient Lord from bestowing His grace, yet the people have deprived their own selves of the wondrous tokens of His mercy, favor and loving-kindness.  BH11886

Yet the foolish among the witless say that the Day of the Lord hath passed and darkness hath encompassed all and the pitch-black night hath descended and the lights of the Most Glorious Beauty have set. This is but error and blindness. They have eyes but see not with them   AB06518

The tabernacle of glory hath been raised upon the most exalted place, and the banner of His Cause hath been hoisted upon the highest standards. Yet the people of the earth remain heedless and veiled, save for a numbered few who are the Hands of the Cause among His servants.  BH01309

The days of all people pass in utter darkness. They are immersed in the triple darkness mentioned in the Qur'an. They know not the beginning nor the end, they comprehend not the realities of things, and their ultimate fate is to return to the dark pit and the lowest depths.  AB01344

"The Call of God hath been raised, yet most of the people hear not. The Most Exalted Pen hath moved, yet most of the people understand not. The horizon of the All-Merciful hath been illumined, yet the people see not. Vain imaginings have held them back, and they perceive not."  BH04773

The Tongue of Grandeur calleth out to all who are in the kingdom of creation, morning and evening, yet the people remain in manifest remoteness. The horizon of possibility hath been illumined by the name of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, yet the people remain behind a mighty veil.  BH05944

Despite this sanctifying melody of the Abha Beauty that has reverberated throughout this infinite space, the helpless people of lethargy remain bewildered and confused like the deaf, saying "Where is that divine melody? Where is that merciful cry? Where is that heavenly song?"   AB01821

The dejected ones are in anguish and the withered ones are in distress. Their aim is to pass their days in their own lifelessness and spend their time thus, considering this mighty Cycle and blessed Dispensation to be without manifest light. Woe unto them and perdition unto them!  AB03157

How many souls were occupied day and night with the remembrance of God, yet when He rent asunder the veils and appeared from the horizon of grace and bounty, they all became occupied with their own desires and were deprived and kept back from Him, save those whom thy Lord wished.   BH08439

We have manifested the Cause and sent down the verses and dispatched the proof, yet most of the people remain asleep. Heedlessness hath so seized them that they have denied Him Who created them and provided for them - these are indeed among the most lost ones in His perspicuous Book.   BH07138

Nevertheless, none responded. If any soul were to observe with an eye of justice, he would instantly proclaim "I believe in God, the Lord of all worlds." However, eyes are afflicted with the soreness of vain imaginings and ears are blocked with the cotton of ignorance and unawareness.  BH00292

Yet those endowed with hearing and sight have been, and still are, few. A hundred thousand regrets that they have deprived themselves of His infinite bounties and occupied themselves with worthless trifles that neither nourish nor satisfy. Ere long they shall testify to their own loss.   BH08121

Being overcome by the drunkenness of corrupt inclinations, the people of the earth find themselves in a state of stupor. They are, therefore, debarred from the wondrous signs of God, are prevented from attaining the ultimate goal and are deprived of the liberal effusions of divine grace.   BH03944

Their sight was blinded and their insight prevented from beholding the lights. Their ears were deaf to the breezes of the kingdom of mysteries. Their breasts were constricted by their fall into the pit of suppositions and vain imaginings and their descent into the corner of forgetfulness.   AB00926

The Tree crieth out, yet the people understand not. The Book speaketh with truth, yet mankind perceive not. Man uttereth speech, yet the people hear not. The Beloved giveth glad tidings to creation of this Revelation, yet they turn not unto it. The Spirit informeth them, yet they know not.   BH04924

Glory be to God! What heedlessness hath seized them all - they have forsaken the ocean of divine meanings and turned to the salt and bitter pools. Though the Sun of knowledge shineth from the horizon of heaven, they have nonetheless clung to and sought after the ignorant ones of the earth.   BH00736

Despite this, the ignorant are still asleep in the bed of deprivation, consumed by the fire of remorse, their eyes closed to beholding the lights of guidance, and in the utmost heedlessness they have amassed perishable treasures and become drowned and ruined in the whirlpool of destruction.  AB00953

Glory be to God! The poison of heedlessness hath affected all limbs, members and veins, and hath prevented all from attaining to understanding and awareness. Now they are seen to be in the throes of death, save those souls who have been healed with the Supreme Medicine of the Most Great Name.  BH00028

The verses have been sent down and the signs have appeared, yet ye know not. All things have testified to the Creator of heaven, yet ye are as dead. How long will ye look to yourselves? This is the Spirit of God - behold ye bear witness! We draw you near through the cords of grace, yet ye flee.   BH01641

The world hath been and continues to be darkened by the breaths of the oppressors. The promised Truth is manifest and uttereth the most exalted call, yet all remain veiled and heedless save those souls whom the veils of idle fancies have not prevented from the dawnings of the lights of certitude.  BH04058

Most wondrous of all things is that, despite this Most Great Revelation and supreme power, none hath reflected upon the nature of the Cause. Rather, all cling to vain imaginings and remain veiled from the Beauty of certitude. Thus hath it been aforetime and thus shall it be unto the end of ends.   BH00620

A hundred thousand pities that the heedless and ignorant servants are unaware and veiled from this most great bounty and supreme favor! What is the cause of awareness and what is the reason for mindfulness? The signs have encompassed the world and the evidences have filled the realm of existence.   BH00465

They hear the call and behold Him Who summoneth them morn and eve, yet they draw not nigh, for they have followed every remote scholar. He calleth them unto God while they hasten unto the idol. They are verily among the people of the coffin in the Tablet of thy Lord, the Most High, the Most Great.   BH03866

This is a Day wherein the Dawn proclaimeth, saying: "By God! The Morn of the Divine Manifestation hath breathed forth, yet the people are in a wondrous slumber." And the Sun crieth out, saying: "The Sun of Truth hath shone forth from the horizon of Will, yet the people are in heedlessness and error"  BH07405

Despite this, the people of Iran are caught in the sleep of unconsciousness - the house unaware of its owner, the East heedless of the rising of the Sun of Truth, nay rather in constant denial. How has a Cause of such magnitude, which has amazed the world, remained unspoken among the ignorant ones?   AB02986

They would shout "Fire! Fire!" No matter how much we said "Fellows, these weapons are for the enemy, don't waste them needlessly," they wouldn't listen. By the time we reached the border, they had used up all their ammunition. As it happened, they hadn't killed a single fox, jackal or even one crow.  ABU1431

Say: O people of the earth! By God, the heart of the world hath been set ablaze by the call of your Lord, the All-Merciful. What aileth you that ye are not set ablaze? Ye behold and recognize, yet deny and remain ignorant. Those who dwell in the realms of the seen and the unseen are bewildered at you.  BH11680

This servant is bewildered at how one could be deprived of the sweet-scented breezes while standing in the midst of a rose garden. The light is manifest, the fire is ablaze, and the call is raised, yet the affairs of this fleeting world have prevented the senses from beholding, perceiving, and hearing.  BH00943

The mountains have hastened unto the All-Possessing, the Most High, and all things have been drawn by the call of the Lord of Names, yet the people remain asleep. The wine of idle fancy hath so seized them that they have become heedless of the Dayspring of Guidance Who hath come with manifest sovereignty.   BH07253

Today the world--that is, humankind--is heedless. By the life of God! If they were to find even less than a needle's eye of the divine fragrance, they would cast down the idols of fancy and imagination with the hand of certitude and, detached from all else, would arise to mention, praise and serve the Cause.   BH00511

Yet have the people debarred themselves from these holy and fresh fruits. Such hath ever been the way of My creatures since before that which hath no before, and shall continue until the end which no learned one can reckon. They draw not nigh unto it save by casting stones of idle fancy and vain imaginings   BH06785

All people were awaiting the days of God, yet when the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of divine will, all were heedless of Him and occupied with and turned to other than Him, except for those souls who heard the divine call with the ear of the heart and turned toward His horizon.   BH09049

Through the heedlessness of souls, mention hath been cut off from the Pen of the Wronged One. This evanescent one and the friends of God must beseech from the ocean of divine generosity that He may guide the heedless people to the horizon of awareness and adorn those who are remote with the ornament of nearness.  BH06509

Another reason is the burning of this ephemeral one's heart, for he observes that while the Sun of loving-kindness is shining, the ocean of mercy is manifest, and the heaven of grace is raised high, most people remain heedless thereof and persist in hypocrisy, regarding mercy as vengeance and glory as abasement.   BH01372

The Ocean of Life hath appeared in the contingent world, yet the people remain heedless and veiled therefrom, nay rather, they are seen to turn away. He calleth with the utmost loving-kindness and bounty, guiding and directing the thirsty ones unto Himself, yet none turneth towards Him save whom his Lord willeth.  BH00237

The horizon of Revelation hath been illumined and the Dawn of utterance hath broken forth, yet most of the people remain heedless. The verses have been sent down and the clear tokens have been revealed, and He Who conversed on Sinai calleth aloud from the Branch of appearance, yet the people are in evident doubt.   BH03490

The world hath been set ablaze by the Word of the Ancient King, yet the people remain heedless thereof, as if they were among the dead. God had counseled His servants to regard this Revelation with His eyes - this after countless other counsels which none can reckon save God, the All-Knowing, the All-Encompassing.  BH00622

I see the people of Paris like bees and ants, coming and going in swarms, moving and stirring like waves, extremely busy - but if you ask what they are doing and why they are moving about, they are completely unaware of their origin and end, and seek no perfection beyond eating, sleeping and immersion in desires.   ABU2975

After the Sun of Truth dawned from the horizon of manifestation and the call of the Speaker on Sinai was raised, the ignorant, unconscious people wandered in the wilderness of error and the desert of vain imaginings until this time. They have not become aware and have not awakened from the slumber of heedlessness.   BH05490

The rivers have flowed, the winds have blown, the mountains have passed away, and the branches have been scattered, yet the people remain in strange slumber. The call hath been raised between earth and heaven and the world hath been illumined by the lights of the Revelation, yet the people remain in evident delusion.  BH02053

The verses have been sent down, the evidences are manifest, the path is clear, and the balance is set up, yet the people are witnessed to be in great heedlessness and behind a mighty veil. The heavenly food descends in every moment from the heaven of the favor of the Lord of the Worlds, yet the people remain unaware.   BH04002

Should ye find Him alone upon the earth, ye would be heedless of God, your Lord, even as ye were heedless for fifty years in five years, though night and day ye sent greetings unto Him and supplicated for the Day of My manifestation from God, when indeed the east and west of the earth were filled with your Lord's verses.  BB00004

They have treated the friend as though he was a stranger and the known as though he was unknown. They seem to say: "We are satisfied with this degradation. We are comfortable amidst all these distractions, dissipations, groveling dirt and uncleanliness. We do not want the owner of the house. We are not seeking his Faith."   ABU1795

When that World-Protecting Sovereign and Kind Friend removed the veil and made the lofty pavilion of heaven His royal crown's dwelling place and placed the diadem of glory upon His head, all turned away their faces, closed their eyes, fell asleep, concealed the mystery, spoke not a word, and strung not the pearls of wisdom.  AB04123

It is very strange that notwithstanding there clear demonstrations there are ever so many men who are negligent of God; although they know that He has created all these lower creatures to serve and remind them. People are entirely engrossed with material pursuits and they have become entirely inadvertent of their own Creator.  ABU1560

The fragrances of that which hath streamed from the Most Exalted Pen have encompassed all things, yet the people are in strange heedlessness. The Cry hath been raised, yet they slumber; nay, they are as the dead, save him whom the breeze of reunion hath stirred and whom the hand of grace hath admitted into an exalted station.   BH05538

Great is the Cause, and great is the Day, yet the people are heedless and barren. How many souls are occupied day and night with the mention of His appearance, beseeching and hoping to attain His presence. Yet when the Sun of Truth shone forth from the Dayspring of God's Will, some denied, others turned away, and a group hesitated   BH02914

Observe then the people and their deeds. They have taken the viper as their leader instead of God and have committed that which hath caused the Concourse on High to lament and those who circle round My mighty Throne to weep. God hath seized it through His sovereignty and power from His presence, yet most of the people remain heedless.  BH03745

The people have been prevented by the croaking of the croaker. All things have been attracted by the call of God, yet We see that the people are as though dead. O ye who lie in the tomb! The Promised One hath come, and the Sovereign of existence hath appeared in His mighty glory. How long will ye slumber in the cradle of vain imaginings?  BH01590

Glory be to God! Despite witnessing with their own eyes what has befallen the deniers, transgressors and oppressors, they remain heedless and veiled. How long will this heedlessness continue? By God's life, the intoxication of worldly ornaments and bounties has made people heedless and prevented them from the Truth, exalted be His glory.   BH00403

After the lights of the Sun of inner meanings dawned and the waves of the ocean of divine utterance surged forth, all turned away. Would that they had been content with mere rejection! They attributed to Him that which the Jews did not attribute to the Spirit (Christ), nor did the idolaters and others speak about the Seal of the Prophets.  BH02569

The atoms have testified to the Revealer of verses, yet the people speak that which hath caused the hearts of the chosen ones to burn and the tears of the near ones to flow. By the life of God! They are in manifest loss. The ocean of knowledge hath surged and the luminary of wisdom hath shone forth, yet the people remain in evident veils.   BH09934

Strange it is that they have not yet understood the Day of God, for had they done so, they would not have occupied themselves with the mention of aught else. He saith: 'The Kingdom on that Day shall be God's,' and likewise He saith: 'And thy Lord shall come with angels rank on rank.' Yet all remain heedless and deprived of this sealed wine.  BH00373

The Sun hath dawned from the horizon of proof, and the Nightingale of divine knowledge hath warbled upon the branches, and the Spirit hath cried out at the midmost heart of creation - yet the people remain sunk in slumber. They have not awakened at the call of God, nor have they been stirred by this Spirit whereby the world hath been shaken.   BH05813

Most astonishing of all is that none hath understood, nor doth understand, the root of the matter, yet they speak whatsoever their idle fancies prompt them to speak. Behold the baseness of their station, that some of the ignorant ones have sought to adduce proofs from Him Whom God shall make manifest while remaining deprived of His very Self.  BH00033

The people are heedless and debarred from the ocean of knowledge. Consider the followers of the Qur'an, how they were veiled and kept far removed by the vain sayings of the ancients. The Sun of certitude is shining and the ocean of knowledge is surging, yet they still cling to the people of conjecture and hold fast to the hem of idle fancies.   BH01500

Glory be to God! These heedless people have preferred extinction to immortality and regarded the ignorant as learned. Today the Balance is manifest and speaketh with the most exalted utterance. It is the true Discriminator and the spiritual Identifier. Yet all are heedless of it and veiled from it, save whom God willeth, the Lord of the worlds.  BH04006

They hear the call of God openly, yet what is in their hearts of the idols of the worshippers preventeth them from certitude... They follow their leaders and cling to the hem of their vain imaginings - nay, they are among the abased ones. They worship the calf while thinking themselves servants of God besides Him - nay, they are among the liars.  BH02880

Thou seest, O my God, how Thy servants have been cleaving fast to Thy names, and have been calling on them in the daytime and in the night season. No sooner, however, had He been made manifest through Whose word the kingdom of names and the heaven of eternity were created, than they broke away from Him and disbelieved in the greatest of Thy signs.  BH04186

From the beginning of the Cause this Wronged One, alone and without any veil or covering, called out with His loudest voice unto the rulers and ministers and divines and jurisprudents and philosophers, summoning all to the Most Sublime Horizon. Nevertheless, the heedless and ignorant servants have not awakened nor drunk from the ocean of knowledge.   BH00945

The Beloved of the world lamenteth for Himself and saith: The peoples enter temples, churches, mosques and cloisters in My name, yet they are heedless of My Self, turn away from My presence, and do that which causeth My breast to be straitened and My heart, My Pen, the dwellers of the pavilion of My glory and the tabernacle of My grandeur to lament.  BH00444

The Sun hath shone forth and the verses have been sent down, yet the people are in manifest drunkenness. They who have remained heedless of the manifestation of God and His sovereignty are assuredly among the perishing ones. The Hidden Name hath appeared, whereby God hath distinguished between religions, yet most of the people are among the slumbering.   BH06640

Were the heedless world and ignorant people possessed of insight, they would have observed the penetrating power of the Word and the might of God's Will, would have conducted themselves with due measure, and would have cast aside the veils of idle fancies and vain imaginings which have held back most of humanity from the Lord of the Day of Resurrection.   BH00735

But when He appeared in truth and the Promised One came, all in the world turned away except those who came before the All-Merciful with illumined hearts. The entire world awaited this most mighty, most holy Day, but when the appointed time arrived and the Source of verses was made manifest from the Dayspring of Will, all turned away save whom thy Lord wished.   BH03424

Has not the time come for those who sleep to awaken and those who are heedless to become aware? Do they think they shall not depart, shall not enter the graves, shall not be gathered tomorrow and questioned? Far from it! Their imaginings are false, their abode is the abyss, and they shall find none to protect them unless they return to God, the Lord of creation.  BH02263

You observe that all the people of the world are caught in the sleep of heedlessness. They have completely forgotten God. All are engaged in war and strife and are in loss and affliction. Like tiny worms in the depths of the earth they strive to make a nest and dwelling, while one flood will destroy their nest and dwelling. Despite this they do not become aware.   AB00366

O my brother! Although the horizon of the Manifestation is resplendent and illumined with the Sun of Divine Beauty, yet most men are seen to be bewildered and perplexed, nay, dead and lost. Most strange it is that they have not yet found the sweetness of the most pure wine, and have not attained to that exalted station of nearness which is the recognition of God.   BH01254

Nevertheless, when the gate of reunion was opened and the breeze of attainment wafted, all remained heedless and unconscious in the wilderness of negligence, save whom God willed. Those who counted themselves among the foremost and considered themselves preeminent in knowledge and insight were deprived of His presence and veiled from the purpose and cause of creation.   BH05731

Yet despite these mighty outpourings, souls remain veiled and hearts turn away. Some soar on the wings of vain imaginings, while others make their dwelling in the lowest depths - these are as the cattle. Some are deprived of a drop from the Most Great Ocean, and some remain bereft of a particle from the Most Luminous Sun. How wretched is the abode of the wavering ones!  AB07957

Glory be to God! This servant is astonished at the condition of people. A group of Christians from various regions have shown sincerity and affection, and have come to this land purely to investigate and examine... Nevertheless they are still hesitant... In any case, the Fire is ablaze, the Sun is shining, and the Light is manifest, yet the people are in great delusion.   BH01798

Heedlessness hath so seized the world that every living soul is bewildered. How many souls have been observed whose song was raised at one hour, while at another their lamentation and wailing was heard. Are they assured by the fidelity of the world? How can this be when it declareth at all times and confesseth its transience, and showeth forth its changes and variations?  BH00581

The earth is changed to another earth and the heaven to another heaven, yet the people of the world remain heedless and veiled. The dwellers of the graves have arisen at the breath of revelation of the Self-Subsisting Lord, while the living souls are seen as if dead. The intoxication of pride and heedlessness has encompassed the world and deprived it of the Ancient Lord.   BH00572

Indeed, there is nothing worse in the world than unconsciousness. These Iranians are both unconscious and self-conceited. They imagine each one of them is the Plato of the age while they know nothing. You met the cream of Iranian ministers in Paris, and likewise went to Iran and observed its notables. The greatest prince of Iran was Zillu's-Sultan - you saw what he was like.  AB00699

Today the proof itself calleth aloud, and all evidence summoneth mankind to a Cause the like of which, from the beginning of creation until now, hath never appeared. Such is the heedlessness of the people that they have turned away from Him Who hath brought verses that equal all divine books past and future, and have occupied themselves with souls who are not worthy of mention.   BH00820

O beloved of my heart! This servant is at every moment immersed in the ocean of wonderment, for he observes that the lights of the Manifestation have encompassed the world and the effulgences of the Sun of Truth have taken hold of the entire earth; nevertheless, all are either asleep on the couch of heedlessness or wandering in the desert of ignorance, save whom my Lord willeth.   BH00741

O spiritual friend! Observe the baseness of the nature of the heedless souls: though the dawn of inner meanings hath broken, and the winds of the springtime of the Merciful's bounty have blown, and the fragrances from the garden of divine knowledge have been diffused, most men are occupied with inhaling foul odors and following vain imaginings. Destruction and remoteness be upon them!   BH00804

Strange it is that, although God, exalted and glorified be He, hath bestowed sight and consciousness and taste, sweet and fresh water appeareth to them the same as salt and bitter - nay, the latter is deemed more excellent and preferable. As can be plainly observed, they have forsaken the Most Great Ocean and turned instead to putrid waters that have stagnated for years in the pool of self.  BH06137

Nevertheless, they were seen to be as stones, having no movement, or as those struck down, as God the Exalted hath said: "And thou mightest have seen the people therein struck down as though they were the hollow trunks of palm-trees." Beseech ye God to awaken the heedless ones, to guide the seekers unto their goal, and to not deprive His servants of this fragrance that hath perfumed the world.  BH01252

These are they who, should they behold the path of Paradise, would not choose it for themselves as their path, but should the breezes of the Evil One pass by them, they would take it as their portion. This is because they have disbelieved in God and His signs, and were of those who turned away and showed pride before God in His Cause which hath dawned like the sun from the horizon of the spirit.  BH02779

"But these people are so deeply asleep that even the trumpet of Israfil would not awaken them, let alone the sound and blast of cholera and the trumpet of the plague of persecution. Glory be to God! These ignorant people understood expulsion from Paradise as one of Satan's miracles, and consider the spread of cholera as disrespect to Khwajih Bu-'Ali. What ignorance is this and what foolishness!"  AB01343

Yet another group remained in the sleep of heedlessness, lying upon the bed of error, remaining unconscious in their stupor and intoxicated in their drunkenness, gathering blindly together, appearing deaf, dumb, ignorant, unlearned and indolent, deprived of the bounties of this Most Great Sea and the effulgences of this Most Glorious Luminary. How wretched is the state of those who are deprived!  AB04816

The sweet waters of life are present and visible, yet the people, heedless, turn to and occupy themselves with putrid waters. Vain imaginings have so deceived them that they have doubted the appearance of God and His presence, after He hath appeared in truth from this luminous station. Behold their paucity of understanding: they invoke the Names morning and evening, yet deny Him Who created them.  BH03516

Glory be to God! Despite this supreme grace which hath encompassed both the seen and unseen worlds, the people remain heedless and veiled. What intoxication hath seized the world of knowledge? Despite the raising of the call and the appearance of the banners of the Lord of all beings, all remain asleep in the slumber of heedlessness. The cry hath not awakened them and the trumpet hath had no effect.  BH01014

But other souls are like those of whom Christ spoke in the Gospel, who have eyes but see not, have ears but hear not, and have hearts but understand not, and I shall heal them. In brief, certain souls were awakened by the divine call and became conscious, while others remain heedless and negligent to this day, bewildered and deprived of the sea of life, despairing of the favors of the Lord of Signs.  AB00600

Most of the people of the world are waiting to see when the Sun of Truth will dawn from the horizon of the divine Will. But when the appointed time came and the world was illumined by the lights of the Dawning-Place of divine verses and the Dayspring of heavenly revelation, these same expectant souls who had been lamenting and bewailing their separation from the Dawning-Place of the Cause turned away from the Truth.   BH06402

if people were to reflect even slightly on what hath been manifested in this Most Holy, Most Exalted Revelation, they would abandon the world and all therein and turn with heart and soul toward the direction of the All-Merciful. However, their vision hath been veiled by the greatest veil which is human desires, and thus their eyes are deprived of beholding the Greatest Scene and their hearts are prevented from seeking.   BH06462

For in these days all are bewildered in the drunkenness of ignorance, save those whom thy Lord hath willed to spare. Some consider the fading mirage to be the billowing ocean and reckon the impenetrable darkness as the radiant morn. Others, having forsaken the river of eternal life, content themselves with a vanishing drop. Such is the state and condition of the people: Thus have We created the souls in divers conditions.  BH01865

All awaited the days of nearness and meeting, but when the gate of reunion was opened they turned away, following the desires of the doubtful ones. They cast the ocean of certitude behind their backs, turning instead to the streams of fancy and vain imaginings - these are among the bewildered ones. They denied God and His evidence, hastening in the wilderness of passion while supposing themselves to be among the guided ones.  BH11739

Thou beholdest how all the peoples of the earth remain heedless and veiled from the most exalted wine and the Kingdom of eternity, and like immature children are occupied with idle play, unaware that these fleeting days and all that is witnessed therein shall soon pass away. Though they witness with their outward eyes the conflicts and upheavals and changes of the world, their heedlessness increaseth with each passing moment.  BH10991

"He desires to make a soul illumined, he prefers darkness; this makes the Manifestation sad. He wishes to change the ignorance of the people into knowledge; their error into guidance; their insincerity into sincerity; their faithlessness into faithfulness, but people prefer the latter qualities than the former and so the Manifestation of God will be sad and unhappy over the heedlessness and negligence of these sleepy souls."   ABU2984

They have reached such heights in rancor and denial that when the verses of God are recited unto them, their faces darken and they turn upon their heels, becoming of those who turn away. They read what they possess of verses and argue thereby morning and evening, yet deny their like and their Revealer. Such is the state of these liars. They make mention of God throughout the night and day, yet when He appears in truth they deny Him.   BH00724

O My loved ones! Speak ye according to capacity, for most of the people are wrapped in heedlessness and thick veils. O My loved ones! In all circumstances it behooveth you to hold fast unto wisdom. By Him Who hath caused all things to speak forth His praise! He who hath spoken the truth had no purpose save the exaltation of the Cause and religion of God, yet the heedless have imagined that he desired to spread corruption in the land.   BH00714

O beloved of my heart! This servant is at all times bewildered and thoughtful, for he sees heedlessness encompassing most of the people of the world to such an extent that pen and tongue are powerless to describe it. Observe how the ocean of inner meanings is surging, the Sun of grace is shining, and the heaven of utterance is raised high; yet the people remain heedless and veiled to such a degree that they are counted among the dead.   BH00567

The world is in upheaval while the people remain heedless. The dust of the deeds and words of the veiled ones hath obscured the luminous morn. Today every firm and mighty foundation is shaken, and every steadfast and upright foot hath faltered, save those whom thy Lord hath willed. The world's convulsions increase daily, yet its people perceive not the cause and reason, and remain veiled from what is with God by what is with themselves.   BH00960

Ponder upon the reality of things and how the people have remained heedless of this manifest light. Verily the East hath dawned, and the West hath been illumined by the praised Star. The people in distant lands are entering in throngs beneath the extended shade and are being gathered beneath the unfurled Standard. Yet the realm of Iran, the Dawning-Place and Orient of the Sun of the horizons, remaineth until now beneath veils and clouds.  AB09129

At all times the Supreme Pen hath been engaged in mentioning the loved ones and all who dwell in creation, yet the people of the world are observed to be exceedingly heedless, deprived and bereft of this mighty bounty and unmatched favor. Should one gaze with the eye of fairness and reflect, one would observe with what kindness, compassion, grace, mercy and benevolence the Truth summons these ungrateful people to that which profiteth them.   BH01406

yet sadly most Iranians are still asleep and unaware and averse to this greatest bounty. The master of the house has come to the door, but the household has barred it. They have considered the familiar as strange and the friend as a stranger, saying "We are content in this abasement and find rest in this disorder and chaos. We do not want the master of the house nor seek his faith. We are averse to his favors and reject his grace and bounty."   AB00803

They seem to be all alive but are they not dead? They all see, but are they not blind? They appear to hear but are they not deaf? They look as though they are going to speak but are they not mute? They strike one as being in motion but are they not stagnant? They present the appearance of activity but are they not inert? Alas! these people are interred in the tombs of negligence and therefore do not respond to the quick vibrations of the spirit.  ABU0863

And if your objection be to God for having sent Me so soon, then it behooveth you to thank God for this and say: "Praise be to God Who hath fulfilled His promise and accomplished what He promised us. Our Lord is indeed the All-Forgiving, the Kind." Fear God, O people, distinguish between gratitude and complaint, and deny not the Cause of Him for Whose sake all in the heavens and earth were created. What aileth you, O people, that ye understand not?   BH00926

The Beloved hath appeared, arrayed in mighty grief, yet the people are in manifest heedlessness. Say: He hath been imprisoned in this Prison through that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought, after He had promised every soul His presence. All worship Him at morn and eventide, yet recognize Him not. These heedless ones weep for what befell Him in a former Revelation, yet shed His blood in this present one. Thus do they act, being utterly unaware.   BH01218

The wonder is that lifeless souls have not yet attained unto life and have not become aware of this Cause of such magnitude. One is astonished at what the divines of the earth are seeking and from what they turn away. Is it that due to the abundance of bounties they have become worthless in the sight of the ignorant masses, or have their deeds become embodied and deprived those polytheistic souls of awareness? Have the hearing and sight of all been seized?  BH00167

To-day all the classes of the world (all classes of men) from the east and west, from the north and south, are captives of the slumber of negligence, submerged in the darkness of ignorance, subdued by self-passions, deprived of the Merciful Bestowal, and overwhelmed with the animal susceptibilities! In the utmost of negligence-like grovelling worms-are they struggling in the depths of this mortal world. They know neither their origin nor their destination.  ABU0581

Glory be to God! They have forsaken the Kingdom of utterance and the heaven of knowledge, and have taken demons for their guides. We testify that they have taken for themselves lords besides God. The call of the King of the Kingdom of names hath been raised from the most exalted horizon in the nights and days, and the ocean of utterance hath appeared before the faces of all religions, yet the people remain heedless save whom God willeth, the Lord of the worlds.   BH04956

In the days and nights divine verses and celestial evidences descend like the outpouring rain from the heaven of will. Nevertheless, all remain heedless save those whom the hand of divine power hath seized and delivered from the mire of idle fancies. Today hath appeared that which God's Pen hath heralded and mentioned as glad tidings in all the Books of the past and future. What hath befallen the people that their ears are barred from hearing and their eyes deprived of witnessing?  BH11396

Glory be to God! The heedlessness of the people of the world has reached such a degree that they have not been awakened by the great cry and supreme calamities beyond which none can be conceived. Consider the chief and what befell him. Nearly five hundred thousand souls have perished, and from beneath every tree in the vicinity of the Land of Mystery arose the wailing and lamentation of widows and others. Blood was shed to such an extent that most lands were observed to be stained crimson.  BH01226

It is not known what has prevented the servants and deprived them from turning to the horizon of Revelation. Praise be to God, He has bestowed sight and granted hearing, yet as can be observed, though every soul is distinguished by these two great gifts, they are not employed in their proper place. The preoccupation of the servants with the desires of self and passion and the ornaments of this world has caused heedlessness, and when heedlessness gains strength it is transformed into error.   BH00928

The divine wisdom in the creation of these ephemeral ornaments hath been that strangers might become occupied with these worthless adornments and thus remain deprived and veiled from the beauty of the Friend. All that existeth in the world of dominion and the kingdom is but a reflection and shadow of the hidden divine realms, yet the heedless ones hunt after and seek these shadows and reflections. Thus do they hasten for a hundred thousand years, only to return at last in despair to the dust.  BH08751

Most of the people are observed to be deprived of sight and hearing, and likewise devoid of spirit, for they were not awakened by the cry raised between earth and heaven, nor did they attain consciousness through the trump of the horn and the blast of the trumpet. They neither saw the evident signs nor heard the revealed verses. The ocean of knowledge surgeth before all faces, yet they turn away from it and cling to the sources of idle fancies. Such is the condition of the people and their measure.   BH02677

Yet We found them in the realm of heedlessness of these messages - one breath of which transformed all existing things to the court of a praiseworthy nearness. Thereafter We appeared in truth among them with a beloved holy beauty, that perchance the lightning flashes of the Face might remind them and guide them to Him Whom they had been unitizing in their days, and immerse them in the depths of attainment to that station from separation from which the eyes of those near to God were filled with tears.   BH00395

Despite this, the people of Iran are caught in a nightmare slumber and afflicted with vain desires, heedless of this supreme bounty, although Iran is the Dawning-Place of the Sun of Truth and the center of divine revelations. "Water in the jar, while all around are parched with thirst, The Beloved in the house, while all search the world around." They seek the means of progress and desire glory and majesty for the world of humanity, yet they remain indifferent to such a bounty that hath appeared in the heart of Iran.   AB00303

Though twenty years have passed since all were brought forth with a new nature, they have not even imagined the Most Great Ocean of oceans, and have turned away from the Essence of all essences through conjecture and fancy. They have imagined that all the ascending steps and degrees of this glorious Cycle - around which hundreds of thousands of infinite divine cycles have revolved in the worlds of the unseen and the visible until culminating in this Cycle - are merely the learnings to which these companions have attained.   BH00931

Furthermore, prevent the people from turning towards the direction of God, for the situation in this land hath become entirely difficult. However, should souls sanctified from self and desire turn toward the Ultimate Goal, it would be beloved that they might perchance become aware of hidden matters and be informed of concealed affairs. Although the heedlessness of the people hath been witnessed to such a degree that nothing could exceed it, yet none hath been or shall be aware of the concealed soul and the cause and reason of her matter.  BH11403

On the contrary, when Moses appeared they erred anew, for Pharaoh's people regarded the teachings and the law of Moses as mere fancy and accorded them no importance, considering their own ideas to represent the truth. But after a short time it became clear and evident that what Moses had proclaimed was indeed the truth and had come to pass, that the religion of God had been put into full effect and had secured the honour and advancement of all Israel, and that it was the thoughts and imaginations of the Egyptians that were the idle fancies.  AB00676

The peoples of the world are fast asleep. Were they to wake from their slumber, they would hasten with eagerness unto God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. They would cast away everything they possess, be it all the treasures of the earth, that their Lord may remember them to the extent of addressing to them but one word. So bewildered are they in the drunkenness of their evil desires, that they are powerless to recognize the Lord of all being, Whose voice calleth aloud from every direction: There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the All-Wise.  BH00001

The call is raised from every direction, yet the heedless servants have transformed light into fire, knowledge into ignorance, blessing into punishment, justice into tyranny, and fairness into oppression. They have risen in disputation and denied the divine bounty and heavenly feast. They have followed their own desires and perceive not; they have forsaken their God and know not; they have taken their vain imaginings as lords for themselves and understand not. Glory be to God! The people of the cities of wisdom and utterance are lamenting and bewailing the deeds and actions of the servants.  BH11469

Glory be to God! Despite the fact that throughout all regions of the world and among all peoples the signs of Truth are manifest and evident, and all ears are ready to hear these events, still most Iranians remain until now captive to the sleep of heedlessness and veiled from beholding the lights - whereas they should, at every moment, offer a hundred thousand thanks that the Sun of Reality rose from that horizon and the divine call was raised from that land, and each one should hasten to the furthest regions of the world with the greatest glad tidings and bring news of this heavenly bounty.   AB00608

By your life, O beloved, one is astonished at the heedlessness of these people - how they have veiled themselves from that which is best for them in this world and the next, and have clung to that which profits them not, oblivious to what the Creator of all things has intended for them. The people are asleep, knowing not what benefits them nor distinguishing it from what harms them. Had they known, they would not have denied this Cause which has appeared only to safeguard their rights, elevate their souls, protect their stations, and enable them to attain what is best for them in their beginning and their end.   BH00894

I know not by what countenance they who have turned away from the Face of God, after all else hath perished, can yet turn, and how long they shall wait. Woe and destruction be upon them for what they have earned for themselves on this Day which God hath sanctified above all other days. In truth, it is a source of a hundred thousand wonderments that while the ocean of divine favors is surging, the Sun of inner meanings is shining, and the heaven of bounty is raised high, all remain veiled, occupied with their own idle fancies and rejoicing therein. They have cast aside the Most Pure Wine and have taken the murky dregs. They drink thereof and perceive not.   BH01504

O my beloved, O my master! Observe how, although the gates of the outpourings of the mercy of the All-Merciful are opened before the face of all, and the world-illumining Sun of His Revelation is manifest and visible above the horizon of grace, yet the people remain heedless, occupied with their own vain imaginings, and deprived and forbidden from this supreme bounty and these infinite favors. This servant marvels at what intoxication hath seized the servants, that even after the Great Cry and the Most Great Trump and the Most Mighty Blast and the melodies of the leaves of the Divine Lote-Tree, they still remain unaware and have not awakened from the slumber of heedlessness.   BH00449

By night and by day the Divine Pen is in motion, its call is raised, and its horizon is luminous, yet the people of the earth are heedless and remote, save whom God willeth. All have been waiting by their own admission, and in the nights and days they have been uttering "Hasten, O God," yet when the veil was rent asunder and the gate of heaven was opened and the Promised One appeared, all arose in opposition save the quantity of the letters of the Face. They reflected not for a moment what was the cause and reason that all sought deliverance for that Being, may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake. By the life of God! The people are in manifest drunkenness and in strange slumber.   BH01407

The ocean hath surged with longing to meet Me, and the winds have been stirred, seeking My straight and manifest path. All things have been moved by the call of God, the Lord of all things, yet the people remain in strange slumber. The realities have taken flight and the horizon of the Cause hath been illumined, yet the people are in evident drunkenness. Among them is he whom the world hath withheld from the Lord of Names, and among them is he who hath followed vain desires, turning away from guidance, and among them is he who hath taken the books of idle fancies and cast behind him that which was sent down from God, the Lord of the worlds, and among them is he who hath said He hath fabricated a lie against God.  BH11757

Write to Khalil that slumber and the intoxication of error have so seized the people that if ninety-nine out of a hundred were to be taken, the remaining one would neither turn to the horizon of the Cause nor raise his head from the sleep of heedlessness. Consider the verses that were previously revealed from the heaven of the Will of the Lord of the Day of Judgment concerning the seizure of certain transgressors. With utmost clarity, passage by passage, was revealed concerning seizure, plunder, earthquakes, lamentation, abasement, and the like. Nearly one crore perished, yet none became aware. Even those souls who had witnessed those verses before the appearance of the signs did not attain unto that which God desired.  BH01133

All the world has awaited this Day, and the divine Books have given glad tidings of this Most Great Manifestation to all, and the Prophets and Messengers have promised all peoples this Day. Yet when the Day of God dawned from the horizon of His Will and became manifest, all turned away save whom God wished. Reflect upon the heedlessness of men, who themselves say that when the Qa'im (may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him) appears, He will speak such a word that even the chosen ones will flee. This is what they all proclaim, yet they remain unaware to such a degree that they themselves have fled and distanced themselves from the exalted Truth, rising up with utmost opposition to extinguish the divine light and quench the fire of the divine Tree. The slumber of heedlessness has so overtaken them that they were not awakened by the Word of God nor roused by the Call.  BH11634

Despite this, these heedless people--that is, the masses of the negligent--are still submerged in endless slumber. They are utterly unaware of whence comes this boundless growth and development, from what sun's dawning comes this divine springtime, and from what cloud's effusions flow this infinite bounty. They behold the motion but think not of the Mover; they acknowledge the freshness and beauty of the spring season but are entirely heedless of the boundless bestowals of the divine springtime; they see the dust but perceive not the Horseman; they observe the motion of buildings but comprehend not the blowing of the winds; they hear the spiritual melody but are unaware of the mystic nightingale; they see the endless waves but know not of the limitless ocean; they eat delectable fruits but are heedless of the mystic tree; they observe the glitter of the glass but are unaware of the light of the lamp.  AB00299

People are slaves to vain imaginings - they neither see nor know. In their world of reason and thought they form a conception and then worship that conception, whereas whatever fits within vain imaginings and is comprehended by minds and thoughts is but mental images of man - encompassed, not encompassing.   AB05071

Most men are this day accounted as sucklings in the sight of God, for they drink from the breast of heedlessness and their days of weaning have not yet come, much less their maturity. But should one attain unto maturity, he would taste from the verses of Divine might that have been made manifest in this Revelation the sweetness of the heavenly Tasnim of divine knowledge and the holy Salsabil of celestial unity, and would perceive all else as a mirage in the desert.  BH00004
