Knowledge is love.  AB11557

The days of man and the life of the wise ones consist of an inscribed book, an unfolded parchment, and a preserved tablet wherein in all its pages and tablets events are written, and in all its leaves and wonders realities of occurrences and mysteries are inscribed.  AB03013

Wisdom is the lord of the world and the master of nations. It is the first teacher in the school of existence. It shows the way and brings seekers to their quest and pursuers to their goal. It is the protector, the helper and the assistant. BH11402

Man should weigh all questions with the power of the intellect. History, which is a great science, should be written by academies, not by individuals, liable to be influenced by emotions.   ABU0869


Speaking of the philosophers, they said: What hath illuminative philosophy accomplished in all this time? It could not produce even a match or a needle. It is all talk. But observe how natural philosophy hath yielded the telegraph, the steamship, electricity and so forth. For instance, had Morteza applied in mathematical sciences the same exactitude he devoted to jurisprudence, what discoveries he would have made.   ABU0675


Knowledge is the cause of divine bounty's manifestation. Knowledge is the discoverer of mysteries. Knowledge is like a mirror in which the images of all things are reflected. Knowledge gives to each person the learning of all humanity, and makes each individual human being equivalent to all humanity, because knowledge teaches one whatever all humanity has discovered - that is, whatever is known by all humanity.   ABU0439

Through mind and knowledge, humans are distinguished from animals. Through knowledge, humans discover the mysteries of creation. Through knowledge, humans uncover the secrets of future centuries. Through knowledge, humans become informed of the mysteries of past ages. Through knowledge, humans discover the hidden treasures of the earth. Through knowledge, humans become discoverers of the movements of the great celestial bodies. Knowledge is the cause of humanity's eternal glory. Knowledge unveils the mysteries of the heavenly books. Knowledge reveals the secrets of reality. Knowledge serves the world of reality. Knowledge liberates past religions from traditions. Knowledge discovers the truth of divine religions.  ABU0121

"Science may be likened to a mirror wherein the images of the mysteries of outer phenomena are reflected. It brings forth and exhibits to us in the arena of knowledge all the product of the past. It links together past and present. The philosophical conclusions of bygone centuries, the teachings of the Prophets and wisdom of former sages are crystallized and reproduced in the scientific advancement of today."  ABU0145


Blessed is the scholar who arose to serve My Cause, made known unto men My path and guided them to the ocean of My mercy  BH01922

"Knowledge of divine books has been and will be beloved in God's sight, for it is the very Word of Truth revealed aforetime through the tongues of the Messengers."   BH01733

He was a learned and wise man. He had studied deeply the different branches of Knowledge. He was a theologian, a philosopher, a Sufi and a Baha'i. The eloquence and fluency of his tongue was matchless and when he began to speak he moved the hearts of men with the power of the Spirit.  ABU0074

Regarding your intention to compose a treatise proving the Cause of God - the divine friends must devote their thoughts and mention day and night to divine proofs and evidences, engage in scholarly discussions, and employ rational and traditional arguments, so that each one may be able to compose treatises and become the manifestation of "We have given him knowledge from Our presence."   AB03963


Wisdom is the lord of the world and the master of nations.   BH11402

Science and learning are good, but they are the branches, not the root.  ABU1319

with the weapons of knowledge and wisdom we defeat the army of ignorance and delusion   ABU2542

You should think much of your lessons and your writing, which will fit you to be useful men.  ABU1483


In science and acquisition of knowledge, the friends of God must excel over all people and rank first.   ABU0797

the promotion of useful sciences, the spread of universal knowledge, the expansion of innovations and crafts  AB10664

A person without knowledge and crafts is not beloved - like trees without fruit have they been and ever shall be.  BH09996



They study Thy proof and learn Thy evidences and traces, and derive conclusive arguments from the manifest verses and transmitted traditions.  AB01547

How many a learned one turned away from the Cause, and how many a learned one spent what he possessed in My path and bore hardships in My love   BH04816

The duty of educated men, especially university presidents of the nation, is this: To teach in the universities and schools ideas concerning universal peace   ABU3349

O king of the country of knowledge...Through the mercy of God ye became the king of the country of knowledge and the sovereign of the world of understanding.   AB07378

Man's adornment consisteth not in the things of this world, but rather in the knowledge of God - exalted be His glory - and in sciences, crafts and proper conduct.  BH01525


It is my hope that thou wilt become a child of the Kingdom, wilt study arts, sciences and divine knowledge, mayest turn into a fruitful and flourishing tree in the Vineyard of God  AB08929

Those men are truly wise who are decorated with the ornaments of science and character; these are the head of the body of mankind. The ruling of man has always been in their hands.  BH09726

O Lord! Open before their faces the gates of knowledge, fill their hearts with the realities of the arts and sciences, and make the endings of their studies the beginnings of success and prosperity  AB07763

God willing, may he hold fast to the counsels of the Wronged One and strive diligently in the acquisition of sciences and arts, for knowledge and wisdom are two shining ornaments for the head and brow.   BH02602

In truth, knowledge is a veritable treasure for man, and a source of glory, of bounty, of joy, of exaltation, of cheer and gladness unto him. Happy the man that cleaveth unto it, and woe betide the heedless.  BH00005

May your attainment in sciences and arts become more universal day by day! Perchance, God willing, you may become perfect and accomplished from every standpoint and be the means of the enlightenment of Iran.  ABU0802


You are, indeed, serving the world of humanity and expending your life for mankind. Above all, I wish for you the blessings of the Kingdom and desire that you will be a cause of the spread of sciences and arts.  ABU2468

In the Most Holy Book We have commanded all people to acquire sciences, crafts and such other things as will benefit mankind. By sciences is meant beneficial sciences, not those which begin and end in mere words.   BH06211

Learn the arts, study the sciences, acquire the practical methods of knowledges, trades and professions, learn the most useful crafts of the age;- thus you may be honored amongst men and respected by all the people.  ABU0510

Make them proficient in every beneficial science and grant them a portion of every wonderful craft. Be ambitious and endure hardship. Learn to undertake important matters and encourage the pursuit of beneficial affairs.  AB00551

How many shepherds in the days of the Dawning-Places of Revelation and the Daysprings of Inspiration attained to the knowledge and recognition of God, exalted be His glory, while how many divines and doctors remained deprived.   BH04574

All sciences are acceptable and beloved at the Threshold of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting. Whatever science is the desire of thy heart and the yearning of thy consciousness - acquire that, for it is acceptable and beloved.  AB11158

The dominion of kings has an ending; the king himself may be dethroned; but the sovereignty of science is everlasting and without end. Consider the philosophers of former times. Their rule and dominion is still manifest in the world.   ABU0008

The noblest, most excellent, most eminent and greatest of all things in the world is knowledge - knowledge that giveth salvation, not destruction. This knowledge is the most precious of all things in the world and the most glorious thereof.  BH00558

And among the greatest of these attributes of perfection are wisdom and knowledge. Ye must therefore put forth a mighty effort, striving by night and day and resting not for a moment, to acquire an abundant share of all the sciences and arts   AB06380

If outward sciences are combined with good intentions and praiseworthy character, they become light upon light, illumining the world of the soul, making human life and form a mirror of the divine image and likeness, reflecting the realms above.   ABU1249

Regarding what was mentioned about engagement in sciences and arts, after it was presented in His presence, He said: "This matter has been mentioned in most of the Tablets and all are commanded to it. The adornment of man is through perfection."   BH01731

Early in life, this illustrious man attended institutions of higher learning and labored diligently, by day and night, until he became thoroughly conversant with the learning of the day, with secular studies, philosophy, and religious jurisprudence.  AB00002

The attainment of the most great guidance is dependent upon knowledge and wisdom, and on being informed as to the mysteries of the Holy Words. Wherefore must the loved ones of God, be they young or old, be they men or women, each one according to his capabilities, strive to acquire the various branches of knowledge, and to increase his understanding of the mysteries of the Holy Books, and his skill in marshalling the divine proofs and evidences. AB00787

The power of the intellect is one of God's greatest gifts to men, it is the power that makes him a higher creature than the animal. For whereas, century by century and age by age man's intelligence grows and becomes keener, that of the animal remains the same.  ABU0555

Knowledge is the mightiest pillar of religion. Previously, all peoples believed that knowledge was contrary to religion, especially the Christians. Whoever pursued knowledge was said to have forsaken religion. Divine addresses praising those of knowledge are many.  ABU2335

If proper effort is exerted as it should be, that school will undoubtedly, through divine assistance and favor, progress to such a degree that it will surpass all other schools, and in the future will reach such a level that it becomes the foremost school in the world.  AB00225

A wise young man ever thinks of and studies those means which are conducive to his progress - mental, intellectual and spiritual. He lets all amusements and recreations go and applies himself to the acquirement of knowledge - thus he may become a useful member of the body politic.  ABU2391

Although to acquire the sciences and arts is the greatest glory of mankind, this is so only on condition that man's river flow into the mighty sea, and draw from God's ancient source His inspiration. When this cometh to pass, then every teacher is as a shoreless ocean, every pupil a prodigal fountain of knowledge.  AB03423

Science is an effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the power of investigating and discovering the verities of the universe, the means by which man finds a pathway to God. All the powers and attributes of man are human and hereditary in origin -- outcomes of nature's processes -- except the intellect, which is supernatural.  ABU0157

It is related that Baseer Tousy was well versed in the science of astronomy. Many nights he walked on the roof of his house watching the stars. Whenever he happened to discover the true position of a planet or to locate the place of a constellation he became so enraptured with the joy of a new idea that he would get up and dance and sing...  ABU0472

The rise and fall of nations is the direct result of knowledge or ignorance, for progress in the world of humanity depends on knowledge and the decline of the human race is caused by ignorance. Humanity will acquire divine characteristics as long as it increases in knowledge; it will be granted lordly attributes as long as it continues to learn.   AB03935

This exalted rank and most high station has been and continues to be reserved for the learned ones - those scholars who have turned to the supreme horizon and attained the highest summit, which is the station of recognition of God, exalted be His glory. They are as lights for the darkness of the earth and as stars for the heavens of understanding.   BH03600

How erudite and learned he was! He had marvelous knowledge of the contents of books. He was well informed of the tenets of every religion and had mastered the intricate laws and complicated customs of every nation - ancient and modern. He knew in detail the doctrines of every sect or party, and was a standard-bearer of the oneness of the world of humanity.  ABU1025

He reflected day and night on the most abstruse of spiritual questions, and gazed in wonderment at the mighty signs of God as written in the Book of Life. He became thoroughly versed even in such material sciences as mathematics, geometry, and geography; in brief, he was well grounded in many fields, thoroughly conversant with the thought of ancient and modern times.  AB00002

There are certain pillars which have been established as the unshakeable supports of the Faith of God. The mightiest of these is learning and the use of the mind, the expansion of consciousness, and insight into the realities of the universe and the hidden mysteries of Almighty God. To promote knowledge is thus an inescapable duty imposed on every one of the friends of God.  AB01616

Knowledge is identical to guidance and ignorance is the essence of error. Happy are those who spend their days in the pursuit of knowledge, in the discovery of the secrets of the universe, and in the meticulous investigation of truth! And woe to those who content themselves with ignorance, who delight in thoughtless imitation, who have fallen into the abyss of ignorance and unawareness, and who have thus wasted their lives!   AB00256

Arts, crafts and sciences uplift the world of being, and are conducive to its exaltation. Knowledge is as wings to man's life, and a ladder for his ascent. Its acquisition is incumbent upon everyone. The knowledge of such sciences, however, should be acquired as can profit the peoples of the earth, and not those which begin with words and end with words. Great indeed is the claim of scientists and craftsmen on the peoples of the world.  BH00005

Therefore, it becomes self-evident that the first bestowal to the world of humanity is happiness, that kind of happiness which is unalterable and ideal...The philanthropist comes to the assistance of thousands of half-starved, half-clothed, afflicted people of a nation. In his deeds he wins much contentment. An engineer spans a large river with a suspension or cantilever bridge, or an architect makes the design of an edifice. Each finds true enjoyment in his work.  ABU0472

The knowledge of such sciences, however, should be acquired as can profit the peoples of the earth, and not those which begin with words and end with words. Great indeed is the claim of scientists and craftsmen on the peoples of the world. Unto this beareth witness the Mother Book on the day of His return. Happy are those possessed of a hearing ear. In truth, knowledge is a veritable treasure for man, and a source of glory, of bounty, of joy, of exaltation, of cheer and gladness unto him.   BH00668

This school is of utmost importance. In all existence there is nothing greater than wisdom. It is knowledge and learning that cause the advancement of nations. It is knowledge and learning that guide humanity and bring illumination. It is knowledge and learning that bring prosperity and development. It is knowledge and learning that transform a wasteland into a rose garden. It is knowledge and learning that make a wilderness into paradise. It is knowledge and learning that exalt abased nations. Therefore, in all existence, the most important of matters is knowledge and learning.  ABU0949

How learned was he! How wise was he! How well-informed was he! His understanding was marvelous and his wisdom beyond comparison. He was acquainted with the master-thoughts of the authors of every nation, he was equipped with the Knowledge of the Holy Scriptures of all the religions. He knew the contents of Zand Avesta and the Zoroastrian literature. He had a most comprehensive knowledge of the Bible and the Gospel. He was apprised of their inner meanings. He had mastered the opinions and theories of the philosophers of the past, and the Ideals of the spiritual scholars were known to him.  ABU0444

According to oriental history there have come in the past two Teachers in philosophy. The first one is Aristotle who was well-versed in all the sciences and accomplishments of his time. The second teacher was Farabi who announced that he is the second teacher. The King ordered the organization of an Academy of learned men and Farabi was examined by the master of every branch of Knowledge. Not only he demonstrated that he knows as much as they know, but he established his superiority over them. Even he was examined in musical art of his time and displayed his marvellous versatility and many sidedness.   ABU1498

The promotion of learning, the dissemination of divine teachings, the spread of beneficial sciences, the encouragement to explore the mysteries of creation, the unveiling of hidden symbols deposited in cosmic realities, the acquisition of useful knowledge, the understanding of concealed earthly truths, and the attainment of the highest degrees of celestial mysteries are among the essential universal relationships of the human world. Indeed, these are among the greatest means of success and prosperity, and in the divine religion they are supremely encouraged and explicitly enjoined, being recorded and inscribed in all the holy Tablets. No deed is more acceptable and praiseworthy than this.  AB01331

For example, when one solves a scientific problem, a strange delight appears, or when one advances a good deed or great cause, joy and expansion of heart occur. It is written that Khwajih Nasiru'd-Din-i-Tusi, who was skilled in mathematics, would go to the roof some nights to observe the movements of the stars and make astronomical discoveries. Whenever he solved difficult astronomical problems, he would rise up and dance with intense joy, saying: 'Where are the kings to come and see wherein true joy lies? Let the monarchs of earth come and see wherein real delight exists!' This is why in the divine tablets the Blessed Beauty has so praised sciences and arts, encouraging and urging all to acquire them, for eternal happiness lies therein.  ABU0295

You must ever concentrate your thoughts on the acquisition of knowledge, so that unlimited confirmations may continually descend upon you from the Kingdom of God  AB08788


Blessed is the scholar who arose to serve My Cause, made known unto men My path and guided them to the ocean of My mercy  BH01922

"Knowledge of divine books has been and will be beloved in God's sight, for it is the very Word of Truth revealed aforetime through the tongues of the Messengers."   BH01733

He was a learned and wise man. He had studied deeply the different branches of Knowledge. He was a theologian, a philosopher, a Sufi and a Baha'i. The eloquence and fluency of his tongue was matchless and when he began to speak he moved the hearts of men with the power of the Spirit.  ABU0074

Regarding your intention to compose a treatise proving the Cause of God - the divine friends must devote their thoughts and mention day and night to divine proofs and evidences, engage in scholarly discussions, and employ rational and traditional arguments, so that each one may be able to compose treatises and become the manifestation of "We have given him knowledge from Our presence."   AB03963

