
You can understand perfectly those below you, but not those in advance of you, though they can come down to you. It is the same law as we find in this world.   ABU1355

When the soul of man ascends to the bountiful realm, it certainly unveils this physical world, for every higher station unveils the station below it, but a lower station cannot unveil a higher station.  AB00576


Man's spirit comprehends the realities of kingdoms which have no knowledge of him, even as the child in the womb has no knowledge of exterior existence; nevertheless, the mother comprehends the child's existence. The superior kingdom understands the inferior, but that the inferior comprehends it is no proof of the non-existence of the superior kingdom.  ABU0819

The higher plane, however, understandeth the lower. The animal, for instance, comprehendeth the mineral and vegetable, the human understandeth the planes of the animal, vegetable and mineral. But the mineral cannot possibly understand the realms of man. And notwithstanding the fact that all these entities co-exist in the phenomenal world, even so, no lower degree can ever comprehend a higher.   AB00103

"Since we do not see it, we will say that as the mineral and vegetable belong to this world and are utterly ignorant of the human kingdom-- one might question the mineral - find it utterly ignorant of the vegetable, one might even find that it denied the existence of the plant-- that if one questioned the embryo in the womb about the human kingdom, it would know nothing of it, and would even deny its existence."  ABU0681

Observe with the eye of reality physical (kharijiyyah), created things. You will see that everything else is not able to understand what is above it even were it to progress in its station to the highest degree of [its] existence, even as thou dost witness that the mineral however much it may progress and ascend to the summit of perfection is unable to know or to understand the station of the vegetable. And similarly, however much the plant may increase in splendour and growth, it can never become aware of the reality of the animal. And in the same way, the animal however much it may improve its goodness, splendour and proportions, it will never possess knowledge of the essence (huwiyyat) of humanity nor of its realities, states and attributes.  AB00007

For instance, the fetus cannot imagine hearing and sight, and whatever you might convey would be mere fancy to it. For in the world of the womb these virtues and vices, these bounties and punishments do not exist for it to conceive of them. Now if someone were to explain to a fetus the virtues and vices of this world, and describe its bounties and punishments, could the fetus conceive of it? No, by God! Similarly is man's condition in the womb of this world. When he hastens to the other world, he observes that he has been delivered from a narrow and dark world and has entered into the divine world. Consider the ranks of physical existence - the mineral kingdom is entirely unaware of the vegetable kingdom, and [...] while the vegetable world exists, it is wholly unaware of the animal kingdom, for the vegetable capacity cannot encompass the perception of the animal realm, nor can it conceive of the faculty of the senses.  AB00188
