

Happy is the man that attaineth thereunto, and hath arisen to teach the Cause of Him Who is the King of Eternity.  BH10162

this most exalted and most glorious station - which is the station of teaching the Cause of the Lord of all beings  BH02230

the teachers of the Cause must be shown the utmost respect. These souls are the devoted servants of the Blessed Beauty.  AB11037

Whosoever teacheth, verily the Spirit will aid him at all times. Thus hast thou been commanded from the presence of One knowing, wise.  BH07870

The responsibility of the steady progress of the Cause depends upon you! You are the physicians of the sick body of the world of humanity!  ABU1408

strive with heart and soul to exalt the Cause of God, propagate the Law of God, and expand the circle of the Religion of God, forgetting every thought and becoming immersed in this thought which is the essence of eternal glory. For no matter save this divine gift has any importance, and no station except this most glorious, most exalted position has any elevation before the True One.  AB12069

gird up thy loins to guide God's servants who are illumined by the shining lights from the horizon of Divine Guidance and who gain abundantly from the outpouring clouds of God's grace. By the righteousness of God! Shouldst thou be graciously aided to achieve this, it would be greater than every station that could be imagined in all creation.  AB07812

it is evident that that one single person was a greater man than a million of the present day Ulemas. For he worked for God and not for fame or name or wealth.   ABU1643

Such teachers will constitute illumined lamps of guidance, the stars of the heaven of mercy, trees of the orchard of Abha, flowers of the garden of mystery and torches of the path of salvation.  ABU2029

How many philosophers and professors there are and yet God hath set the crown of faith upon thine head, that thou mayest cry out and proclaim the Abha Kingdom in that city and become the cause of guiding the people.  AB09455

Be thou deeply thankful to thy teacher and show unto her heartfelt and spiritual gratitude, because it was she who caused thee to hear the divine call and it was through her that thou didst attain to eternal grace.   AB05116

O thou Lion hearted Bashir. The Egyptian Basher brought back with him the garment of the Canaanite Joseph but thou art the bearer of the garment of the King of the City of Love. Behold the difference of thy station!   AB06611

"Your station is great. Your names will go down through all the ages. Kings and Queens have never been talked of and remembered as you will be. You are workers in the Kingdom of Abha and I am very happy and love you very much."  ABU1951

O friends! Know ye your worth and station. Waste not your endeavors on the idle fancies of this one and that. Ye are the stars of the heaven of understanding and the breezes of the morn. Ye are the living waters upon which dependeth the life of all, and ye are the letters of the Book.  BH02699

Whenever during his lifetime, the Blessed Perfection desired to signalize anyone with His special Favor, He encouraged him to go forth and teach the Cause of God. When He spoke to one of the pilgrims or wrote to a far-off Baha'i concerning the promotion of the Cause and inciting the former and the latter to arise and deliver the Message of the Kingdom, everyone felt instinctively that these souls were elected, the chosen ones, and that the Glances of Mercifulness had encircled them.... He used to say that the Teachers are the Israfels of God, who with the sound of their trumpets blow the Spirit of Life into the dead bodies of mankind. ABU0331


These are the blessed souls. These are favored in the Kingdom of Abha! When we associate with such real educators who confer general instruction upon the world of humanity and guide them in the path of Reality, day unto day, our eyes are more illumined, our ears more hearing and our hearts more perfumed with the Fragrances of God.   ABU2834


No righteous deed is greater in the sight of the Forgiving Lord than the diffusion of divine fragrances throughout all regions and territories, for these souls are embodied Israfils who breathe the breath of life into souls. They bring the dead to life and make faces radiant. They make the deprived ones confidants of mysteries and grant the destitute a portion and share of the greatest gift.   AB04338


O thou dear handmaid of God! If only thou couldst know what a high station is destined for those souls who are severed from the world, are powerfully attracted to the Faith, and are teaching, under the sheltering shadow of Baha'u'llah! How thou wouldst rejoice, how thou wouldst, in exultation and rapture, spread thy wings and soar heavenward -- for being a follower of such a way, and a traveller toward such a Kingdom.   AB00802

each of you must serve with heart and soul anyone who was the cause of guidance, and take pride and glory in wearing the collar of servitude to them.   AB02782

