

This is the day in which the diffusion of sciences, the training in arts, and the instruction of children - both boys and girls - are amongst the greatest and most fundamental principles of this radiant century and this glorious age. Whosoever taketh a step in such endeavor is indeed acceptable and favored by the Threshold of the Greatest Name ... and is the beloved of the hearts of the Concourse on High, and will be remembered and renowned by all peoples. No greater service than this doth exist, inasmuch as the world is resplendent and illuminated by the light of the sciences and arts. Science is the light of the world; it is conducive to the joy and fervor of the people of splendor, it is life eternal, and it is everlasting glory. Well is it with them who thirst for such living waters, or who are the cup bearer of such rivers of life and soft-flowing streams. AB02747

A painter asked: "Is art a worthy vocation?" Abdu'l-Baha turning to her impressively, said: "Art is worship."  An actor mentioned the drama, and its influence. "The drama is of the utmost importance." said Abdu'l-Baha. "It has been a great educational power in the past; it will be so again." He described how as a young boy he witnessed the Mystery Play of Ali's Betrayal and Passion, and how it affected him so deeply that he wept and could not sleep for many nights.  ABU3551

By his arts, sciences, inventions and all of his work, man must reveal his highest capacity.  ABU1794

"All true art is a gift of the Holy Spirit."   ABU3085

Man in this age has learned the weight of the sun, the path of a star, the movement of an eclipse   ABU2410

It is my hope that thou wilt become a child of the Kingdom, wilt study arts, sciences and divine knowledge  AB08929

What bounty could be greater than this - that knowledge is considered worship and craft is considered service to the Kingdom of God?   AB05132

And may all the friends strive that day by day it may attain greater organization and that sciences and arts may spread more abundantly.   AB11746

that they are opening the eloquent tongues and are discoursing intelligently in every branch of learning so that in oratory they may become ideal magicians   AB06543

I beseech God that ye may be so highly distinguished in sciences that your fame will be noised throughout all regions and your fair name be on the lips of all enlightened people  AB09999

By these sciences and arts are meant those which are useful and are studied in Europe and America, such as geometry, chemistry, geography, all mathematics and other useful sciences.  AB01884

Knowledge is the cause of success and prosperity and is a magnet of grace and achievement. Therefore in this wondrous Dispensation learning and knowledge are among the greatest virtues of the human world.  AB08508

in this new century the attainment of science, arts and belles lettres, whether divine or worldly, material or spiritual, is a matter which is acceptable before God and a duty which is incumbent upon us to accomplish   AB03020

Baha'u'llah had also in His writings given a most important place to Art, and the practice of skilled trades. He had stated that the practice of an Art or Trade in the true spirit of service was identical with the worship of God.   ABU2205

Knowledge is the light of the world. Blessed is he who is not deprived of its radiance and splendor. Knowledge is the life of the world and the adornment of nations. Knowledge is the treasure of existence and the gift of God, the Mighty, the Loving.  BH10084

Science is the light of the world; it is conducive to the joy and fervor of the people of splendor, it is life eternal, and it is everlasting glory. Well is it with them who thirst for such living waters, or who are the cup bearer of such rivers of life and soft-flowing streams.  AB02747

His Holiness Baha'u'llah has commanded the study of arts and crafts; that when we undertake the study of any branch of arts we must perfect ourselves in it and strive to master its technicalities and expressions but the study of art must not hinder the unfoldment of the sweet flowers of our spiritual life. One must become a complement to the other.   ABU1223

And every branch of learning, conjoined with the love of God, is approved and worthy of praise; but bereft of His love, learning is barren -- indeed, it bringeth on madness. Every kind of knowledge, every science, is as a tree: if the fruit of it be the love of God, then is it a blessed tree, but if not, that tree is but dried-up wood, and shall only feed the fire.   AB03123

Scientific matters should be confined to what benefits people, not matters that are mere words leading only to dispute - specifically theology, mathematics, natural philosophy and material arts, so that people may benefit from them  AB01995

