

The desire of finding a direct route to India from Europe became the cause of the discovery of America   ABU3274

In the Middle Ages, when the kings of Germany and England were oppressed by the Pope, they would assist the Protestants.  ABU1850

to many people the great Pyramid was the most to be admired structure in Egypt, but to him it had always produced an unpleasing impression  ABU2923

During the time of Abdul Hamid, when volunteer military forces signed up to fight against Russia, each soldier was given a rifle and 200 bullets.  ABU1431

Before Shah Abbas, the Dutch seized the Persian Gulf with its seventeen islands belonging to Iran... After much dispute Shah Abbas returned the ships.   ABU0688

The Fragrances of the Holy-Spirit waft from this Sacred Spot. If the nostrils were open they could inhale these breaths. This Blessed Land is fragrant.   ABU3359

These places are called the Holy Land and eulogies and praises have been sung by all the seers and prophets of the past concerning these sacred grounds.  ABU2076

[three stories of Nader Shah, Imam Ali, and the spy Ali during the time of Ma'mun and Amin, all illustrating the importance and power of truthfulness]  ABU0317


Nadir Shah was one of the great rulers of Persia and during his military career he conquered India and many other countries. He was a resourceful leader as well as a noble warrior.  ABU0536

According to the accounts in some ancient histories, it appears that the first king who placed a crown upon his head, sat upon the throne, and adorned the diadem of kingship was Kiyumarth.   AB03643


This is the first German house built in Haifa by the leader of colony, called Hertek who came here in 1870 with about 500 people who either accompanied him or immediately after his arrival followed him.   ABU2633

Affairs in these parts have become very difficult and in Adasiyyih and other places grievous events are occurring one after another. Those who are present have absolutely no rest and are greatly troubled.   AB03395

Nebuchadnezzar also inflicted many calamities upon the Children of Israel. Because the Children of Israel were wavering, doubts would continually arise for them. These doubts cast them into such afflictions.   ABU2434

The people of America in ancient times were close to Asia from the northern direction, meaning there was a strait in between. Therefore they say there was passage back and forth, and other signs also indicate interaction.   AB05069

I dare say that history should be like the inscription on Solomon's seal ring, becoming in future ages the bearer of truth and accepted by every nation and people. Otherwise, there are many histories and countless narratives.  AB00176

There were [certain tribes] prior to the time of Moses who numbered among the Arab clans that are no more, that is, no sign of them has remained. Their mention is made in the history of Islam, but they are not referenced in the Torah.  ABU2140

"But in very ancient times Asia led all the continents in civilization. At this time there was a connection between Asia and America which was lost and entirely forgotten. As to the belief of the American Indians in the Great Spirit..."  ABU2395


I never dreamed to buy land around the Lake of Galilee and by the river Jordan; but the Blessed Perfection commanded me to do so, in consideration of their biblical sacredness and the historical associations running back into the oldest antiquity   ABU3238

Ancient traces of the city of Nineveh, whose existence the historians of Europe once denied, were eventually discovered in the environs of Mosul - and these vestiges attested to the industries that had been developed and the advancements made in that age.  ABU3711

When Abraham was exiled from His home, God spoke to Him, "Do not be sad. I will give You the choicest land in the entire world." And if there were a land better than here, God would have given it to Abraham. Alexander was in the Holy Land for eight years.   ABU0983

The entire Caucasus region follows the River Aras, which in the Qur'an is referred to as the "Companions of Rass." In ancient times, several Prophets whose accounts have been lost were sent to that region and perfumed the human world with divine fragrances.   AB01719

"Haifa is ancient. It is one of the Phoenician towns. Akko also is ancient. It was also Phoenician. Haifa or Caifa gets its name because it is at the foot of the mountain. The name is Phoenician, not Hebrew. These Phoenicians were here 2500 years before Christ."   ABU0815

Jesus was a dyer by trade. He also lived in Egypt. The 5th Gospel which is considered noncanonical gave other history of Jesus than is contained in the Gospels of the New Testament. There were fifty gospels, but only four were accepted as genuine by the priesthood.   ABU3181

You observe that the stony land, because it was the homeland of the Prophet, became the qiblih of the horizons - from all regions they turn toward the Mother of Cities, meaning Mecca, to pray. This was not known in the time of the Prophet, but became apparent afterwards.   AB03767

When His Holiness Moses was guided by the divine fire and beheld a ray of light from the flame of Sinai, He arose to guide Israel. He led that lost and wandering people, who were captive to the oppression of tyrants and deprived of all sciences and arts, to the Holy Land.   AB00076

He had drawn four hundred sketches on a single skin of a gazelle, which was kept in the Kasra palace. His designs were inscribed on the jeweled carpet and taken from Kasra palace to Medina [by conquering Arabs]. One piece of this carpet was sold for twenty thousand dinars.  ABU3129

I observed how they laugh at the nations of the world and say in their own tongue: How many like you have come and gone! How many governments we have seen, what wondrous kings we have witnessed, how many vast kingdoms we have heard of - all of these vanished while we remain.  ABU0301

This town is very sacred in the estimation of the Jews; yet they seldom think of its improvement and cleanliness. Already various Jewish Societies, benevolent and otherwise have founded thriving, progressive colonies in various parts of Palestine and Syria but they have done nothing for Tiberias.  ABU2787

In Mecca and Medina before Islam, the Arabs ate lizards. It was divine power and heavenly confirmation that made them victorious over the treasuries of Chosroes and Caesar... look at the Ottoman Empire with all its strength, power, and military preparations, how weak and humbled they have become.   ABU0912

Once Persia was engaged in war with a foreign Power. After a severe battle her army was defeated but the Military Censor sent word to Persia that the royal Army has achieved a great victory and the inhabitants of every city must celebrate the occasion by a National festival, illumination and pyrotechnics.   ABU1338

One that occurred a thousand years ago is forgotten in one that is taking place today. Some events occur which take away the memory of all past incidents. The incidents which occurred previous to the coming of Adam have vanished, because those which have occurred since have entirely erased them from the mind of man.   ABU0810

O thou Tahamtan! The legendary Rustam of Zabul, though he was a most mighty hero in the arena of bravery and courage and though in physical prowess was superior to every champion and in this wise his name was renowned in all the world, yet at the end through a ruse carried out by his brother, became entrapped in a deep pit and no trace of him didst remain.  AB05118

The world was populated, the people increased in number and resources and many species of cattle were domesticated. According to the theories held by the anthropologists and the students of ancient languages when the world of humanity was in its aboriginal state many wild, savage tribes roamed over vast stretches of desert without the instinct of habitation.  ABU0806

The best history is that of Abu al-Fida, although it is brief. The purpose of history is to awaken those who come after. See in what path those who came before achieved success and prosperity, and follow that same path. How wonderful it would have been if the history of the Prophets had been properly written, for it would then have served as a model for this time.  ABU2146

Kay Kavus was an arrogant man. Siyavash was more favored than he. Kavus took the daughter of the king of Yemen as his wife and loved her dearly. This Sudaba developed a desire for Siyavash, the son of Kavus, but Siyavash was too pure for this. Sudaba complained to Kavus that Siyavash had evil intentions toward her. Kavus became angry, but Siyavash's innocence was proven.  ABU0443

In Persia the great vernal feast has been respected from far-off ages. King Jamshid first built a gigantic fire-place and instituted a banquet on this day, and from this time the day of Naw-Ruz gradually came to be kept as a national feast. All victories were celebrated on this anniversary, and foundation stones of important buildings were laid on this day of the Naw-Ruz.   ABU2883

This city of yours was once a mighty capital and the seat of supreme sovereignty in ancient times, and the fame of its people spread far and wide throughout all regions, such that past nations would follow their example in all matters pertaining to worldly prosperity. Then God stripped from them the garment of glory and wealth and clothed them in the cloak of poverty and extinction  AB04963

Alexandria, which was in truth the crown of Islamic cities and was like a bride among countries and lands, was seen stripped of the garments of security and tranquility and the ornaments of glory and prosperity by the might of English artillery. In ten hours its heights were brought low. The natives were in utmost weakness while the foreigners were exceedingly strong and triumphant.   BH01277

As to Akka it is a City one direction of which is towards the River Jordan across which the Friend of God, Abraham, passed and in whose environs He called God His Lord using the melodies of the peoples of Paradise. In another direction it faces the Holy and Sacred Vale from which was raised the call of all the Prophets and Messengers saying: "Here we are! Here we are! O Lord our God!"  BH02025

"Syria has an important position strategically. Ancient nations conquering this country extended the boundary of their empire to all the then known parts of the world. The Greeks, the Romans, the Arabs and the Turks subsequently conquered this country and each in turn became a world-power. Because it is the connect[ing] link between Asia and Europe and Africa its importance cannot be overestimated."   ABU0512

How would the lights of the Luminary of the horizons and Sun of Truth of the world of effulgence have shone upon the regions of the world, circled the dawning-places of existence, become established in the Holy Land, and how would all the future promises to Israel have been fulfilled? And how would the gathering of Abraham's children in the Promised Land according to God's promise have been made possible?  AB01297

The point is that some imagine that when the light of prophethood dawned, all people cried out We hear and we obey! They know not what afflictions were visited upon those Essences of being, and what denial and pride they witnessed from all. This is why He says, Is it not that whenever there came to you a Messenger with that which your souls desired not, you grew arrogant? Some you called impostors and some you slay.  AB00226

Although some of the simple folks believe that these ancient monuments of civilization are built by Solomon yet there is no foundation for it. Is it true that David conquered these lands and Solomon extended the boundary of his father's conquests, but there were no public buildings at that time. When Alexander the Great (in 332 B.C.) conquered the Persian Empire, the territory of the Jews became a Macedonian province.   ABU1001

One of the characteristic signs of Fatali Shah's reign was the division of the various provinces of Persia amongst his sons. Each royal son was as a despote ruler in his own Province as his Sire. For example Tabriz was parceled out to one, Esphahan to another, Kermanshahan to a third and so on. All that they did was to pay an annual tribute to their father and the one that paid more was more favored in his estimation.   ABU0908

When the Arabs conquered Persia after the appearance of Mohamad, they learned from the Persians the notes and measures and brought back with them to Bagdad the seat of Arabian Kalifat of the time...From Bagdad the Arabs carried it to Cordova, Andelusia in Spain, where they had their Universities. Here many European students studied the Persian school of music and made it as a foundation for their further and more original compositions.  ABU0556

After the death of one of the Khalifs two persons by the name of Mamoun and Ameen arose and claimed the right of succession. At the time Mamoun was in Khorassan and Ameen in Bagdad. That city being the Centre of the Islamic world and the seat of the Khalifate the latter took hold of this advantage and usurped the holy See, proclaiming himself the natural and rightful successor and demanding prompt allegiance on the part of his subjects.   ABU0283

Despite all this, that foundation ultimately collapsed and that victory became utter defeat. Palaces were transformed into tombs, and the royal diadem ended in a crypt full of fear and dread. How excellent are these words: It is as though no one had ever dwelt between Hajun and Safa, nor had any nightly conversation taken place in Mecca. Yes, those people were there, but they were destroyed by the vicissitudes of nights and ill-fated stars.  AB09255

This city was built by the Phoenicians, and it was their custom to name every city according to its geographical features. Since this city was curved triangular in shape, they named it 'Avk/Akkeh, which carries this meaning. And Haifa was Haifo, meaning city at the mountain's base, and the Lebanon mountains in the Phoenician language means white mountain, as it is covered with snow. This city was built one thousand five hundred years before Moses.   ABU2459

During the last days of our stay in Egypt, we went to Tanta for the repair of the tomb of Haji Abu'l Qasim and from there went to Mansurih. In Tanta one of the English officials was our friend, who held us in great honor and showed us great respect everywhere. Observing this, the natives were more respectful and polite to us than even to the said officer, and throughout the town, everyone, young and old, even the policemen in the street, saluted us.  ABU2330

Harum ar-Rashid wanted to excavate [the Pyramids] but was unsuccessful. [His son] Ma'mun then decided to carry out the same task and, after much effort and many searches, they found a tablet in the hieroglyphs script. There was someone in Europe who could read hieroglyphs. Upon the tablet was written the identity of the king-builder and the fact that it was so strongly built that no one could open it until the end of time. With this, Ma'mun discarded his plans.  ABU0505

In such a day in former times, Iranians held a great festival, but in this time they are distressed. In truth, some ancient kings of Iran had a paternal relationship with their subjects and were caring. Although their sovereignty was absolute, most worked in consultation with ministers. How much the Nauruz gatherings were the cause of harmony and agreement! Every gathering in this festival became the cause of some beneficent decree. Great reforms would come about.  ABU2154

Isaiah 34: Refers to the prophecy of the degradation of Palestine and Elom until the end of days, and began at the time of the entrance of Titus A.D. 70. Then again Omar desolated it 635 A.D. Then the crusaders entered 1096 A.D. and made war with Islam, which lasted until 1272 A.D. but the conflict between Islam and Christianity lasted until 1844. Napoleon entered Acca in 1812. The one to drive the crusaders out of Acca was Bebers, King of Egypt, Malik-a-tharhir.   ABU1188

When Manukji came to Bagdad and stood in His spiritual Presence he related many stories concerning the humiliation of the Parsees and how in his travels from India throughout Persia he found them in the lowest degree of dispersion and abasement; how the Persian authorities persecuted and drove them from pillar to post and how these creatures like sparrows were made captives in the cruel claws of the falcon and how they were maltreated in the cities of Yazd and Kerman.   ABU0515

In the Russian-Iranian War, Iran was defeated; and, afterwards, seventy-six of the victors were assigned to settle various affairs and to dispatch the [Iranian] captives to Russia. There was a woman who had two children, whose husband had resisted arrest and avoided being sent [to Russia]. As a result, the Russians kept the wife under surveillance, and, once having discovered her in the public bath, seized her as she emerged. A tremendous commotion broke out in which the entire group of Russians perished.  ABU1211

It is always these kinds of tales that spoil matters, especially when they are without clear proof and evidence. People, due to hearing them repeatedly, come to believe them. For instance, Omar ibn Sa'd ibn Omar was the son of Sa'd Waqqas who conquered all of Iran for Islam. Similarly Sinan ibn Anas, son of Anas ibn Malik who was among the greatest companions of the Messenger of God - how did the matter become confused for them? But one who investigates reality becomes aware of the true essence of the matter.  ABU1132

Were they to journey through the wilderness and observe with care, they would see the traces of vanquished hosts and the defeated armies of those who came before: here lies a bent sword fallen to the ground, there a shield; in one place a tent-pole covered in dust, in another corner an ownerless bow and arrow; here a spear, and scattered remains of provisions; there ruined ramparts. The tombs of the Pharaohs still stand, and the fields where opponents of God's Cause disputed and contended can still be sensed.  ABU0189

In ancient times, the manifestations of falsehood who stood against the Dawning Places of the All-Merciful had, outwardly, some existence and appearance. Once there was the stubborn Nimrod who was lord of the world. At one time there was the great Pharaoh who was outwardly the philosopher of the Egyptians and renowned among all peoples, ruler of the realm of Egypt and unique among his contemporaries. Once there was the shameless Caiaphas who was chief of the learned ones and the greatest rabbi of the Israelites.   AB00542

In this world there is no soil as unproductive as the soil of Mecca. It is a desert of sand, black, bare mountains and barren sahara. There are no springs in Mecca. They bring in their drinking water from a very remote place. Now because this desert of shifting sand, these fearfully shaped dried mountains, this extremely hot climate became the birthplace of His Holiness Mohamad, the eyes of the Islamic world have turned toward it. Nearly three hundred thousands souls go yearly on a pilgrimage to Mecca to kiss the black sacred stone.  ABU1227

This is the Holy Land from whence all the Prophets and Holy Men came. No country in the world has such a bright light of Religion. The Light of God has always shone upon the world from this land, and the Religion of God has had its Source and Revelation here. It is wonderful even in its physical conformation. The Phoenicians came from here. Their great civilizations spread from Syria. Abraham came to this land. Here His Teaching became known. The King of Salem, Melchizedek, came from this land. All the Prophets had their missions here.   ABU1699

Lycurgus, King of Sparta, who lived long before the day of Christ, conceived the idea of absolute equality in government. He proclaimed laws by which all the people of Sparta were classified into certain divisions. Each division had its separate rights and function... He then left his kingdom, went into voluntary exile and never came back. No man ever made such a sacrifice to ensure equality among his fellowmen. A few years passed, and the whole system of government he had founded collapsed, although established upon such a just and wise basis.  ABU0437

Your illustrious ancestor Nadir was unique in his time and a genius of that land and realm. He conquered the domain of Iran by the sword and subdued and captured the Afghan chiefs. He displayed terrible might and manifested overwhelming dominion. He vanquished vast armies and humbled the forces of India and Rome and treacherous foes. At every turn he arranged the battle lines and in combat left his enemies without name or honor. He placed the crown of kings upon his head and honored the throne of his predecessors with his noble and auspicious presence.  AB09255

From ancient times this festival has been a source of rejoicing. Following the reign of Zahhak, Jamshid ascended to the throne on Naw-Ruz. To commemorate this joyous occasion, they established a great temple wherein they kindled the sacred fire. Successive monarchs maintained this tradition until it became firmly established as a national and political festival. It came to pass that all means of jubilation would converge on this day. If engaged in warfare, victory would be achieved on this day. Every significant enterprise was inaugurated on this day of Naw-Ruz.  ABU1261

The Persians, the Austrians, the Germans, the French, the Italian and the English people belong to one common stock of Aryan race. Originally this sturdy race lived along the river of Ganges in India. This people grew rapidly in number and strength. Having become too numerous they migrated to the plateau of Iran (Persia). From the tableland of Iran a second migration was set in motion toward Caucasus. After many ages of expansion, the third migration started westward. Then a stream of migration at various periods flowed toward Europe, each one inhabiting a portion of the land.  ABU2544

Akkor is this same Akka that the Europeans call Acre. Akka acquired different names: first it was 'Avk, then Akko, then Akkeh, then Akka. This city was built by the Phoenicians, and it was their custom to name every city according to its geographical features. Since this city was curved triangular in shape, they named it 'Avk/Akkeh, which carries this meaning. And Haifa was Haifo, meaning city at the mountain's base, and the Lebanon mountains in the Phoenician language means white mountain, as it is covered with snow. This city was built one thousand five hundred years before Moses.   ABU2459

As for the word Israel, this was the title of Jacob himself, not his children. After the term Bani-Israel (Children of Israel), the word son was dropped and Israel alone was used. This is common in languages; for example, the children of Ham are called Ham, the children of Japheth are called Japheth, the Turkish lineage is called Turk, and the children of Ya'rub are called Arab. There are many such examples. Later, the term Israel was applied to the people of God, as mentioned in the Torah, meaning the community of God, and in this sense it was applied to all souls who turned to God.  AB07601

Reflect how many persons after Christ desired to weaken the Cause of God! But at last they became entirely non-existent. Amirros (?) the head of the Oriental bishops strove and manifested great power and sagacity. One million and a half of the people followed him, nay rather they worshipped him and for a time he weakened the Cause of Christ; but at last he disappeared and vanished entirely from the face of the earth. Such events have transpired in the past. They must become the means of warning for these souls who are living today, so that they may know what will be the end of such innovations.  AB04304

Over the course of history, it has acquired many names. At first it was 'Auk, then became 'akur [Achor] and afterwards 'Akka. The Phoenicians raised this city and their custom was that when they built a town, whatever geometric figure it resembled, they would call it by that name. Since this city was triangular with curved sides, then they called it 'Auk, which had this meaning. Moreover, Haifa was known as Hayfu, meaning 'a town on the skirt of a mountain.' And Lebanon in the Phoenician language means 'white mountain since it is covered under the snow. The city of 'Akka was build fifteen hundred years before Christ.  ABU3653

During the Arab invasion of Persia, the treasury of that empire boosted of two most valuable treasures. The first was a parchment over which was drawn by Mani in miniature-forms 400 pictures of animals and the second was a royal rug the texture of which was woven with the gold and silver threads and the precious stones. In the confusion incident to the general rapine, the first was lost for ever and the second was brought to Arabia. In order that every general may receive something they cut the rug and every one received a small piece. The small piece which went to Ali, the son-in-law of the Prophet was valued at 20,000 Dinars.   ABU2494

It is recorded in history that there was a king in Sistan. A thief named Ya'qub entered the royal treasury one night. As he was gathering the implements and jewels, he saw something white and shining in the darkness. Thinking it was a diamond, he touched it with his tongue. As it happened, it was salt, whereupon he left all the items and departed. In the morning, the treasurer came and saw that though the treasury wall had been breached, nothing had been taken. The king was amazed and ordered a herald to announce that the thief should come forward and would be granted immunity. The thief then told the story. The king said: "You deserve to hold high office because of this trustworthiness." He eventually became the king of Bukhara, rising from thief to sovereign.  ABU1365

and the Beloved gave a detailed stirring account of the history of Acca from the time it was taken by the Crusaders in 1104 A.D., its fortune in their hands till it was retaken by Saladin in 1187, how it was subsequently besieged and held by the Crusaders under Philip Augustus of France and Richard I of England in 1191 and given to the Knights of St John; how it feel into the hands of the Egyptians in 1291; then attacked and possessed by the Turks in 1517; how Napoleon Bonaparte besieged it for 61 days in 1799 but was saved by the skill of Jazzar Pasha and the timely assistance of Sir Sidney Smith; then its possession by Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt in 1832 and its final surrender to the combined armies of the English, Austrians and Turks in 1840 and its restoration to Turkey at that date.   ABU2635

By God! Verily in the peoples of Noah, Hud, Lot, and Thamud, and the dwellers of Al-Hijr, and the Jews, and the kings of Saba, and the tyrants of Mecca, and the Caesars of the spacious lands, and the Chosroes of the crooked city, and the overthrown cities of ancient times, there is indeed a lesson for those possessed of understanding and insight who can discern the ends of things from their beginnings. Their stars were scattered, their processions vanished, their faces were covered with dust, their lights were extinguished, their roots were pulled out, their stems were uprooted, their thrones were toppled, their armies were routed, their pillars were shaken, their structures collapsed, their palaces were deserted, their backs were broken, their graves were swallowed up, their faces were disfigured, their skins shriveled, their traces were obliterated, and their vestiges were erased.  AB00265

We must observe and recall what hath transpired in ages and centuries past. Where are they who in their pride sought to rise higher than heaven itself, and in their arrogance aimed to soar above the sun? And where are they who rose up against God's Cause? His blessed and exalted Word declareth: Where are the Pharaohs and the sons of Pharaohs? Where are the Caesars and the sons of Caesars? Where are the Khosroes and the sons of Khosroes? Where is the crimson host and the yellow standard? Where are their armies, their thousands, and their ranks? Where are their treasures, their buried wealth, their riches and their might? Where is the neighing of their steeds and the clashing of their swords? Where are their furnished stations and their trellised gardens? Where are their adorned gardens, their swaying trees, and their lofty palaces? God seized them for their sins and brought them down from their palaces to their graves -- thus spoke the Tongue of Grandeur.  BH01767

For them God related the stories of past nations and empires. For example the people of Hud - they were a mighty nation, a conquering people, their expanse and wealth were boundless and their valor and might were renowned throughout the world. When they showed denial and pride, that arrogance caused them to be utterly effaced and destroyed in the end. Their prosperous lands were buried, they became destitute. Their lofty banner was overthrown, no trace remained of them. Similarly the people of Thamud were a zealous people. Their overwhelming power had humbled and subdued all tribes. They built magnificent edifices and their wealth and riches were boundless. In the end they were scattered and their foundation was uprooted from its base, no trace remained of them. Likewise the people of Lot had famous cities and built great metropolises. They became so intoxicated with the wine of pride that they beat the drum of sovereignty. They too, because of their opposition were obliterated and destroyed due to their rejection and pride before the truth. Of these mighty peoples and great nations, only traces of stones remain in the desert; of their lofty palaces only fragments of rock remain; of their very deep wells only chambers exist.  ABU0301

Saladin I Ayyubi, meaning the son of Ayyub and nephew of Shirkuh, whose title was al-Malik al-Nasir, fought against and defeated the invading Crusaders. He conquered and recaptured Jerusalem, Karak, Nablus, Ashkelon, Jaffa, Tripoli, Acre, Tyre, Sidon - in short, all the cities that were in the hands of the Crusaders. He placed the prisoners in the fortress of Tyre and hastened to Egypt. Then suddenly Crusader ships full of soldiers appeared before Tyre. They strove from without while the prisoners strove from within, and the Crusaders gained control of Tyre. From Tyre they arose and hastened toward Acre and besieged it. King Nasir Saladin rushed with utmost speed from Egypt to Syria. Observing that Acre was under siege, Saladin then besieged the Crusaders from the land side, and Acre fell under two sieges, for the Crusaders were besieging Acre while Saladin was besieging the Crusaders, and inside Acre were the Islamic defenders. Later the Crusaders gained control of Acre and killed the defenders. Winter came and Saladin fell ill, so the pillars of state deemed it advisable for him to return to Damascus to regain his health and wellness, and in spring to attack the Crusaders with a mighty army and reconquer Acre. However, Saladin, King Nasir Ayyubi, died in Damascus and the fortress of Acre remained in Crusader hands. After a hundred years, Saladin King Mansur, who was related to Ayyub, conquered Acre and drove all the Crusaders from Syria. That first Saladin's title was King Nasir, and the second Saladin's title was King Mansur. The first was the son of Ayyub, the second was from Ayyub's relations. AB01627


India had a great civilization in former times. That civilization spread from that part of Asia to Syria and Egypt; from Syria it was extended to Greece from whence it found its way to Arabia and Spain. Again, from Spain it spread over most of Europe.  ABU2862



Glory be to God! Throughout ages and centuries they clung to names - consider what was and what became its fruit   BH02425

Reflect, then consider the generations of old and what they wrought in their vain life. God seized them for their sins.   BH08385

O ye who have gone astray! What was the outcome of all that the former people said and did, and what fruit did they reap?   BH05709


Since he cannot know the outcome of events, he must ever choose the way of righteousness, learning from the past, for the future.  ABU3371


Even Columbus and some ancient philosophers like Socrates were made to suffer but after a time the people took pride in praising them.  ABU3309

Ponder ye on that which He hath sent down unto you, then observe and reflect upon the bygone ages and what God hath decreed therein.   BH07058

O people of Persia! Look into those blossoming pages that tell of another day, a time long past. Read them and wonder; see the great sight.  AB00004

Look at the generations of old - did the ambiguities, allegorical statements, and words to which they clung without clear proof benefit them?  AB09080

At the time of Muhammad's migration to Medina under divine protection, Abu Bakr, was with Him. He said to Abiu Bakr, 'Be not afraid, God is with us.' These very words became afterwards the cause of his succession to the Caliphate because the word 'with us' included him also. Many proofs and arguments based on these words have been advanced. The value of this bounty, too, is not known now.  ABU2564

Consider what the Disciples of His Holiness Christ did by throwing away comfort and rest and devoting all their times to the promotion of the Cause.   ABU2936

All must ponder upon that which hath been mentioned, that perchance they may not be afflicted in the future with that which afflicted the former people.  BH03759

Whatsoever hath occurred in the past, its remedy in this Day is easy and simple, but that which is missed by anyone today shall be impossible to remedy.   BH07273


The Jews once turned to the Kingdom, but when they looked backward to mortal things, they became dispersed. Then Christ led men to the Kingdom; their signs have remained.  ABU2922


If a person desires to comprehend the wisdom of the present day events he must think of the past occurrences and realize how their true significances appeared years afterwards.  ABU0621

In the former generations that have passed away, there are lessons for us. When we consider our predecessors, their ways, and their worldly success and prosperity, we gain insight.   ABU0955

O people, remember when Muhammad, the Messenger of God, came, the learned ones and every possessor of knowledge turned away from Him, while those who tended sheep believed in Him   BH02997

From what I can gather from the events of my life, history clearly shows the wars that have been waged, the peace measures that were subsequently adopted, have proved inevitable failures.   ABU2519

In the time of Christ, the doors of the divine Kingdom were opened, but the people, being veiled, were negligent and in a deep sleep. Therefore, they were deprived of the spiritual glory.   AB05666

Consider what example our predecessors set for us who follow after them, and what path of sacrifice they demonstrated for us. We too, God willing, must follow this straight path like the friends of old.   AB00752

Now these souls who create discord do so in the name of truth - later the result becomes clear. Jeroboam acted in the name of justice and equity, but afterwards the Children of Israel became idol worshippers.  ABU0753

Whoso ponders the lessons of history will learn that this sea has lifted up innumerable waves, yet in the end each has dissolved and vanished, like a shadow drifting by. The waves have perished, but the sea lives on.  AB00002

How many a learned one hath remained ignorant of the All-Knowing, how many a mystic hath denied the Self-Subsisting, and how many a heedless one hath been awakened by the Call and turned towards the Most Exalted Horizon.  BH07483

Then His Holiness Muhammad came. He guided them, supplicating and praying. He said: 'Consider the bygone nations. They finally regretted. You must not do the same.' They did not listen and at last they found they were mistaken.  ABU0636

How many a learned one hath been barred from the Most Great Ocean, and how many an ignorant one hath heard and hastened and partook and drank and said: Praise be unto Thee, O Thou Who art the Goal of all in the heavens and earth!  BH04184

Consider how many famous ministers, distinguished scholars, eminent princes and great wealthy ones there were in former ages and earliest centuries. Each could have shone in those centuries like a brilliant sun in the ethereal heaven  AB02110

Today people deny the deeds of those who tyrannized in the past, while they commit tyranny worse than what was committed before, and they perceive it not. It is as though they feel secure from the grave and are guaranteed immortality.   BH02808

The annals of Turkey contain many curious incidents about the movement of troops by vessels from one country to another. The author writes, for instance, the army left from one place in 1550 and arrived safely at another point in 1556.  ABU0487

Have the tidings not reached you of those who lived before, who denied God's signs and mocked His Messengers, whereupon He seized them with manifest wrath? Fear ye God and reflect upon what hath passed, that ye may be guided in these days   BH02010

Reflect upon former centuries - where are the proud and vainglorious, and where are the workers of iniquity? These are their treasures and their palaces, their strongholds and their thrones in ages past. Ponder what befell them and take heed.   BH02925

Consider in history those noble souls who passed before: after their passing, none mourned them or raised lamentations in their calamity. No eye wept and no heart burned. Yet afterward, behold what mourning occurred and how conditions changed.  AB01635

Before that there is no record. During these six thousand years there has been constant war, strife, bloodshed. We can see at a glance the results, achievements and outcomes of war. The history of warfare and strife is known, the effect apparent.  ABU0125

Consider the earlier centuries how much the peoples of those times strove, struggled and showed great violence and ferocity, how much blood they shed but ultimately they only uprooted each other and entered the abyss of humiliation and remoteness.   AB06371

Reflect upon the condition of those who came before - the truth will become evident and the end result will become clear. Children and descendants became disgusted with their sinful fathers and ancestors and were ashamed of their connection to them.  AB05352

Turn not unto the world, but behold the generations of old, for therein lieth a lesson for men of understanding. Each hath attained according to his deeds - among them were those who found a goodly end, and among them were those who found an evil abode.  BH11786

Consider the generations of the past and what befell them, though they were mightier than you in strength, greater than you in glory, and more exalted than you in station. All of them went to their places and were buried with their deeds and returned to dust   BH02293

Consequently if the Mohamadans believe that their prophet is the 'seal of the prophets' they have simply followed in the same footsteps of the Jews and the Christians and must repudiate their own religion because others have a prior claim to such assertions.   ABU2092

Consider how lofty is His sovereignty! Conversely, consider the case of Pharaoh. There is no sign of him, no name of him, no trace of him. The little name that remains of him is because he was a contemporary of His Holiness Moses. Otherwise, pharaohs were many.   ABU0797

Verily, if in former dispensations souls harbored doubts, uncertainties and misgivings, it was because they observed that all the divines of the earth would deny and condemn, and none from other nations and peoples would praise even to the extent of a hair's breadth.  ABU0708

Ponder attentively the accounts of the prophets and the Messengers of the past: how it was that they were calumniated against; in what manner they were treated; how it was that individuals became veiled from the Truth and were heedless of the Remembrance of their Lord.  AB02475

When Sultan Selim gained dominion over some European territories, he suddenly received word that Shah Tahmasb had attacked his lands, so he was forced to return. If at that time they had not opposed each other in that way, they would not be so abject and despised today.  ABU2134


Look at the good, pure, and blessed souls in the early centuries - with what conduct and behavior, what detachment and extreme attraction they spread the divine fragrances and exalted the Word of God. "In those who have gone before in former ages, there are examples for us."   AB00910

Do ye not look upon the present, nay rather look ye in the future. The Lord's Supper of His Holiness Christ during the lifetime of that divine Light had no importance in the estimation of the public but consider how the rays of that Sun of Reality illumined that meeting afterward.  AB02528

Consider the early centuries - some souls lived in the utmost comfort and prosperity, and finally left behind the troubles of the world, while other souls who experienced various forms of cruelty in the path of faithfulness - their lights still shine bright from the horizon of the Kingdom   AB02547

But since that time superstitions had crept into the religion and ideals of the East, and from many differing causes the ideals and characters of the Eastern peoples had gone down and down, lower and lower, while the Western peoples had been constantly advancing and struggling towards the Light.   ABU0769

This is the custom and sentence of the people of bygone ages. Undoubtedly these things must transpire in these days even with a greater intensity. That is why His Holiness the Christ sayeth: "Everything which hath happened in the cycles of the former prophets will certainly occur again in these days."  AB01661

Observe how all events were foretold in advance, yet still Iranians do not wake up and become aware... In every age when they interfered, they ruined Iran, like in the time of Shah Sultan Husayn when they humiliated Iran before the Afghans and uprooted the Kayani dynasty, and likewise in Fath-'Ali Shah's time  AB00734

They thought that they had done well, that they had extinguished the Lamp, and that they had quenched the Fire which flamed in the tree of Christian certainty; nay, verily, that Lamp hath diffused its dazzling rays unto the Supreme Height and that Fire hath burned until it kindled the hearts of the righteous!   AB02145

In the time of Christ, outwardly the acceptance of the disciples had no importance - people mocked them, saying "What station or worth do fishermen have?" They ridiculed and laughed at them. But later they understood what importance they had. Later it became clear and they regretted every moment of those times.  ABU1544

In former cycles people used to relate by tradition the things which happened during the time of the Prophets; for instance, the disciples explained the miracles during the time of Christ; these statements were oral. But in this great day facts are established; what Baha'u'llah has performed was seen by the eyes.   ABU2369

Look unto those who have been in the former ages--how they have resisted all nations and suffered all persecutions and afflictions, and how their stars shone, their attacks proved successful, their teachings established, their regions expanded, their hearts gladdened, their ideas cleared and their motives effective.   AB04221

"For instance, consider how many a thousand assemblages--religious, political and literary--have been organized in India, Persia, Turkestan, Chinese countries and, in a word, in every part of Asia. All these gave no result except that assemblage of the disciples of Christ on the mount fifty days after Christ's ascension."   ABU0821

Among the ancient Persians this day was looked upon as the holy day of the year - a day when hospitals and charitable institutions were founded, collections for the poor were made and every effort put forth that it might not be allowed to pass without leaving some divine trace and throughout Persia one sees these historical traces.  ABU0881

Just the same as in the time of Christ. It has retarded the progress of His Cause, as Arius did. One million and a half souls were his followers even the Emperor at Constantinople. Arius was very eloquent. He proved the existence of something that did not exist. But the Ocean of Christ sent forth a wave and cast ashore Arius and all.   ABU2509


When the Children of Israel taught both material and religious sciences together in their schools, this resulted in the education of skilled individuals. However, later among the followers of religions, especially among Muslims, education in schools became limited to religious issues and discussions, and even that ended up being confined to debates about words.  ABU3160

Consider ye and call to mind the generations of old. Where are they who pronounced judgment against Muhammad, the Apostle of God? Where are they who clung to idols, turning away from God, the Lord of all men? Where are they who opposed the Spirit? Where are they who pronounced judgment against God's chosen ones and His messengers without clear proof or explicit Book?   BH06596

In this mortal world every important matter hath an end; and every remarkable achievement a termination; none having permanent existence. For instance, consider how the important achievements of the ancient world have been totally exterminated and not a trace remaineth therefrom save the great Cause of the Kingdom of God, which hath no beginning and will have no end.   AB02090

Where is the splendor of Parviz and his golden hoard, where is the leisure of the powerful and their tall mansions, where is the wealth of the tyrants and their serried hosts? Wert thou to see the palace of Khosrow today, thou wouldst find it barren save for the reverberations of the echo and the spider's web. Profit by their example, O thou endued with understanding.   BH03582

Consider what the Arab poet has said: "Our insights are given us by those who came before us." In other words the past offers us a lesson in this regard for consider what little benefit it was to souls who passed the days of their lives in the utmost comfort and joy and ask thyself what real loss was suffered by others who spent their time afflicted by hardship in the path of God   AB00843

Gracious God! That royal edifice was once splendidly decked forth and fair. But there are spiders' webs today, where hung the curtains of gold brocade, and where the king's drums beat and his musicians played, the only sound is the harsh cries of kites and crows. This is verily the capital of the owl's realm, where thou wilt hear no sound, save only the echo of his repeated calls.  AB00002

Look with penetrating vision into the earlier centuries - their conditions, their traces, their phases, their distinguished ones, and the wondrous events that transpired therein, their mysterious secrets, the diverse dispositions of their men, and the varying tastes of their luminaries - for verily the accounts of those who have gone before are a reminder and lesson to those who follow.  AB00246

One who is unaware of all the cycles and ages and events and intrigues and whisperings that have occurred might think that those who say "The Book of God is sufficient for us" exist only in this Dispensation. The poor soul knows not that it was always through such whisperings and intrigues that harm befell the religion of God and the Law of God, such that the foundation of the Cause was shaken.  AB00292

O Feridun! Thy namesake did uproot the foundations of tyranny, and cleansed the realm of foes; he raised aloft the standard of Kavian, and laid the groundwork of justice. He nurtured the priests and exalted the peasants; he was a refuge to the helpless and a loving, compassionate friend to the distressed. Do thou likewise, according to thine own measure, follow the path of the righteous ones of old.  AB10942

Ponder upon the parties of old and inquire, that perchance ye may be mindful. The Caesars, Pharaohs and tyrants of the world in every age and cycle arose in oppression, vainly counting themselves as enduring and others as transient. Where are their stations and their palaces? Behold their graves, that perchance their extinction may remind you, their remoteness draw you near, and their darkness illuminate you.   BH00618

Consider those souls who lived in the days of the Manifestations of God - because they believed in those holy Manifestations, their descendants take pride in them to this day... This became a lesson - that the kings of the world who were conquerors of countries and wore crowns of emperors, like the Kayanids, Pishdadids, Sassanids, Abbasids, Umayyads and even Safavids, their lineage ended in utter abasement and lowliness   AB01945


Christianity in France was emancipated in this manner. One of the monarchs in France realized that no matter how many Christians were slain, it bore no fruit. One day he summoned his ministers and consulted [with them]. Thereupon, he announced that he bore no opposition whatsoever to Christianity. This resulted in all the people being enticed to investigate, and gradually they became Christian. In this Cause, it will also occur likewise.  ABU3657


During the first century of the holy Manifestations the beginning of the revelation is like the day, because the Sun of Reality is shining upon all the horizons, the stars are invisible. But in the second century, the station and the degree of the sincere ones will become evident. Their lights will become manifest and bright like unto the shining stars. The stations of the apostles of His Holiness Christ became known after three hundred years.   ABU0492

When God sees that the people are becoming agnostics he causes some incidents to occur which replace those of the past; that the people will return from their heedlessness and seek the center of these great events. For this reason The Bab and the Blessed Perfection said before the appearance of the First Adam, an hundred thousand Adams appeared upon the earth, but in these days the people only know of the Adam which came five thousand years ago.   ABU0810

Before Muhammad, the Arabs were a savage people, more ignorant than animals. The Arabian Peninsula was immersed in intense darkness, but the morn of divine favor dawned and the lights of the Sun of Reality shone upon the Arabian desert. That land and region became illumined. In a short time, it reached the highest degrees of progress. To such an extent did the Arabs become the example for all nations and became renowned throughout all regions for their virtues and qualities.   ABU1133

Now if that handmaid of God hath endured the scorn and reproach of relatives in the path of the true Beloved, it mattereth not. This hath been the way of those gone before. In ancient times, in the days of the Prophets, and likewise during the episode of the Prince of Martyrs, may the spirit of those near to God be a sacrifice for him, the heedless showed the utmost scorn and reproach toward the loved ones. Yet this scorn and reproach ultimately became the cause of eternal glory.  AB08958

Regarding the mention of the length of life of the ancients, this is a relative matter, not according to current convention in these days. For in ancient times there were different kinds of years - some would count one lunar cycle as a year, some would count the solar cycle, and likewise they would name the cycle of each planet as a year. The most that can be said is that the bodies of the ancients were stronger due to their simple way of life, and their constitution was more robust.   AB03352



When I was present at an important gathering in Alexandria, a certain patriot arose to voice his praise and support for his country. He recited a poem and then, with the utmost pride, he repeatedly made the following remark, which stirred those in attendance to more excitement than any of the other addresses had: 'We belong to the people who built the pyramids.' I said to the páshá sitting near me, 'How strange! The Muslims of Egypt are not the Copts, that they should pride themselves in this way on having built the pyramids (the tomb of Pharaoh).'  ABU3686

Consider the past and the events that transpired therein. Is not the future like unto the past? Is not the past the very mirror of the future? Truly, that which thou findest in the past thou wilt see in the future, for both are subject to the same order. Call to mind the days that are gone - what was and what came to pass, and what results were achieved. The future is like the past, and the past is a mirror of the future. Whatever thou seest in the one, thou shalt behold in the other. Whatever thou didst find in the former, thou shalt discover in the latter. All follows one pattern and one course.  AB03481

When in the city of Zor the lamp of his [Alexander's] life was extinguished and the last morn had dawned upon him, the wise men assembled by his corpse. One of them said, 'Gracious God! The whole world could not contain this ambitious man yesterday but today a small plot of earth is sufficient to hold him.' Another remarked, 'With all his greatness, glory and eloquence of speech, Alexander never advised us in such a manner as he is instructing us today with this silence.' Another said, 'A few hours ago this man considered himself the sovereign of the whole world but now it has become evident that he was a servant and a subject.'   ABU1844

A proper history was never written in Islam. The best history is that of Abu al-Fida, although it is brief. The purpose of history is to awaken those who come after. See in what path those who came before achieved success and prosperity, and follow that same path. How wonderful it would have been if the history of the Prophets had been properly written, for it would then have served as a model for this time. For example, with what self-sacrifice did the apostles of Christ arise to serve - they truly proved faithful to Christ. One went toward Iran and was completely lost. Another went toward India and he too was lost. ABU2146

They could never have exalted a people as base as the Israelites to the lofty heights they ultimately attained, nor formed a community as illustrious as that of the Christians. Furthermore, they could never have civilized the desert-dwelling wild ones of Arabia so thoroughly as to empower them to conquer great cities and transform the hearts of differing peoples, to the extent that that once brutal people had become enabled to so quickly establish the schools of Andalusia -- schools which the denizens of Europe attended to learn the hallmarks of civilization, and returned to the West to promote the arts and sciences they had studied.  ABU3688

Indeed, the face of the world hath been turned toward irreligion. In all years, nay in all months, nay in all days, it hath been far from faith, certitude and knowledge, and close to conjecture and vain imaginings. And for a time they shall continue thus, even as the duration thereof hath been revealed and recorded in the Book of God. But be not grieved, for the effulgences of the Sun of Truth shall absorb the excess moisture of nature and shall gather together the scattered letters. This matter is not confined to this age alone, but hath been thus from ancient times, even as a drop from the hidden drops in the divine ocean of knowledge hath been revealed in the holy Tablet of Wisdom. BH05695

Those who maintain that these modern concepts apply only to other countries and are irrelevant in Iran, that they do not satisfy her requirements or suit her way of life, disregard the fact that other nations were once as we are now. Did not these new systems and procedures, these progressive enterprises, contribute to the advancement of those countries? Were the people of Europe harmed by the adoption of such measures? Or did they rather by these means reach the highest degree of material development? Is it not true that for centuries, the people of Persia have lived as we see them living today, carrying out the pattern of the past? Have any discernible benefits resulted, has any progress been made?  AB00004

"When Sultan Muhammad the Conqueror had laid siege to Constantinople and was bombarding it, one of the ministers went to see the Patriarch, the head of all priests in the realm, and found him writing. The minister asked, 'Your Eminence, what are you writing?' The Patriarch replied, 'I am writing a book refuting Muhammad ibn Abdullah.' The minister said, 'O foolish ignorant one! You should have written your refutation when his banner was first raised in the Hijaz. Now that Muhammad ibn Abdullah, peace be upon him, has Constantinople under artillery fire and his standard waves in Europe, you busy yourself writing refutations? O mindless one, O thoughtless one!' Then he struck the Patriarch hard on the back of the neck and said, 'Get up and be gone!'"  AB00132

Before long it became clear that what Abraham had proclaimed was indeed the truth, and that it was their own thoughts that were the idle fancies. For after a short time the teachings of Abraham were realized in the world: The Holy Land was given to His descendants; the foundations of the religion of God were established; Isaac and Jacob came into the world; Joseph became ruler in Egypt; Ishmael was blessed and illumined Mount Paran; Moses the Interlocutor appeared, beheld in the desert of Sinai the blazing fire of God in the Burning Bush, rescued the Israelites from their oppression and captivity at the hands of the Egyptians, led them to the Holy Land, and, through His teachings and His religion, which were consonant with the needs of the age, founded a mighty nation.  AB00676

Although some of the simple folks believe that these ancient monuments of civilization [ruins of Gadara] are built by Solomon yet there is no foundation for it. Is it true that David conquered these lands and Solomon extended the boundary of his father's conquests, but there were no public buildings at that time. When Alexander the Great (in 332 B.C.) conquered the Persian Empire, the territory of the Jews became a Macedonian province. Immediately after his death (in 324 B.C.) and the partition of his vast Empire between his four able generals, his ambition of the world-conquest came to naught. Syria and Palestine became the share of Seleucus. Seleucus and his successors, by conquests and wars, added year by year large territoryies to their dominion. In the year 205 B.C. the Seleucidae, or descendents of Seleucus had established a Kingdom of Syria, extending from the Mediterranean to the Indus. The capital towns were Seleucia on the Tigris and Antioch on the Euphrates. Antiochus III. the Great laid the foundation of ten prosperous colonies in as many parts of Syria and Anatolia and induced many Jews, by granting them special privileges, to migrate and settle permanently in those colonies. One of the cities built by Antiochus the Great is the city of "Mokeiss" on the top of this mountain, the dilapidated buildings of which are yet witnessed by the tourists. The two springs situated in the North and South of the valley were connected with each other with a system of arches over which people walked and viewed the smiling, prosperous plain dotted with buildings of many stories and men and women busily engaged in the pursuit of pleasure or work. Where are now those Greek Kings and Roman Imperators and Queenly ladies who lived in their palaces, danced in the moonlight and bathed in the hot springs of this valley? They laid the foundations of these stately buildings so deep and they reared their walls so high that they vainly thought the hand of time will not touch them. How would they feel if their ghosts returned and looked upon this dismal picture of complete desolation! The wild, roving Arabs pitching their tents in the ruins of those gorgeous palaces, they have become the dung-heaps of animals and men, stables for their asses and horses! Such sights give one much thought for reflection and contemplation! ABU1001


No doubt you are aware that in the past ages a common language shared by various nations created a spirit of solidarity among them. For instance, 1,300 years ago, there were many divergent nationalities in the Orient. There were Copts in Egypt, Syrians in Syria, Assyrians and Babylonians in Bagdad and along the River Mesopotamia. There existed among these peoples rank hatred, but as they were gradually brought nearer through common protection and common interests, the Arabic language grew to be the means of intercommunication, and they became as one nation.  ABU0354


Consider the peoples of old, how much they strived and schemed and resisted and opposed, yet in the end they only struck the axe to their own roots.  AB09916

Travelling is a very good thing. It opens the eyes and broadens the horizon. In the East one may behold vast and desert places where one lay peopled towns.  ABU2379

Surely in those regions too in ancient times the divine call was raised at some point, but it has now been forgotten.   AB05069

The decay of the nations and the degradation of the people have always proceeded from the ministers of religion.   ABU2588

After the appearance of His Holiness the Great Messenger Muhammad Mustafa, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him, the divine teachings were transferred from Arabia to Iran and Turkistan. The lamp of guidance became a mighty torch. The divine religion gained complete promotion. Turkistan progressed in all ranks until it reached such a degree that it gained distinction from other lands. Divine and material sciences and arts progressed to such a degree that from the school of Turkistan emerged the geniuses of the time and the learned ones of the horizons.  AB01867

When spiritual power appeared among the Arabs, in a brief time they rose from the depths of ignorance to the heights of human glory, and were delivered from the lowest depths of vice to attain the greatest virtues of civilized life.   AB12113

Gazing upon those who sleep beneath the gravestones, embosomed in the dust, could one ever distinguish the sovereign's crumbling skull from the subject's mouldering bones? Nay, by Him Who is the King of kings! Could one discern the lord from the vassal, or those that enjoyed wealth and riches from those who possessed neither shoes nor mat? By God! Every distinction hath been erased, save only for those who upheld the right and who ruled with justice.  Whither are gone the learned men, the divines and potentates of old? What hath become of their discriminating views, their shrewd perceptions, their subtle insights and sage pronouncements? Where are their hidden coffers, their flaunted ornaments, their gilded couches, their rugs and cushions strewn about? Gone forever is their generation! All have perished, and, by God's decree, naught remaineth of them but scattered dust. Exhausted is the wealth they gathered, dispersed the stores they hoarded, dissipated the treasures they concealed. Naught can now be seen but their deserted haunts, their roofless dwellings, their uprooted tree-trunks, and their faded splendour. No man of insight will let wealth distract his gaze from his ultimate objective, and no man of understanding will allow riches to withhold him from turning unto Him Who is the All-Possessing, the Most High.  BH00001

The teaching of Buddha was like a young and beautiful child, and now it has become as an old and decrepit man. Like the aged man it cannot see, it cannot hear, it cannot remember anything. Why go so far back? Consider the laws of the Old Testament: the Jews do not follow Moses as their example nor keep his commands. So it is with many other religions. ABU1522

The Faith of Jam was founded upon truthfulness, friendship, good humor and kindliness. That Faith prevailed for a time upon the earth, but after a brief period was forgotten.  AB09597

Think of a monarch like Nero setting fire to a city and playing upon his lyre while it burned! What kind of a civilization was that?   ABU3035

"There are living nations and dead nations. Syria lost its civilization through lethargy of spirit. The English nation is a living one"  ABU2297

The histories prior to Alexander, which were based on oral accounts current among the people, were put together later on. There are great discrepancies among them, and certainly they can never hold their own against Holy Writ. It is an accepted fact among historians themselves that these histories were compiled after Alexander, and that prior to his time history was transmitted by word of mouth. Note how extremely confused was the history of Greece, so much so that to this day there is no agreement on the dates related to the life of Homer, Greece's far-famed poet. Some even maintain that Homer never existed at all, and that the name is a fabrication.  AB00263

Today the people of the West take the utmost pride in Napoleon I, that such a great personage appeared in France. Germany glories in Frederick the Great, that such a renowned figure arose in Germany. Russia takes pride in Peter the Great, that such a dragon became a champion in the realm of Russia. England in Henry, America in Washington, and Italy in Garibaldi--in brief, every nation takes pride and glory in some renowned figure. However, all these great souls were setting stars, and "soon no trace of them, not even a whisper, will remain."   AB00303

The traces of Kings and queens have passed away but the services of the servants of God have been handled down from century to century. The descendents of Abbas established their seat of government in Bagdad and they ruled the Islamic world for 500 yrs. Persia and Turkestan, Egypte and Arabia and as far as the confines of Indus bowed to their authority. Thirty six Khalifs appeared one after another but today their memory is forgotten.   ABU0911

And the Europeans completely denied this story, saying it was one of the false tales. They even said the city of Nineveh never existed. Until one year when we were in Baghdad, near Mosul they excavated a place and found strange ancient artifacts... And it became known that Nineveh was not false - it had been a great city, but in ancient times it had been swallowed up, sinking into the earth to a depth of three hundred cubits.   ABU1681

The seat of Pharaohs, which was illumined and brightened by the nobility of Islam, was observed to be ruined and devastated in but a short time.  BH06409

The Emperors of Rome ruled over many thousands of people and were famous and powerful, but now the Emperors are dead and their power has vanished.  ABU2379

The religions of the past have fallen into decay on account of self-seeking leaders who in the course of time appropriated all the rights and powers unto themselves   ABU0722

Youth is followed by old age; a tender plant becomes an old, decrepit tree; dynasties are born, wax strong, reach to the zenith of glory and then totter to the ground.  ABU2675

O Faridun! Your namesake became obscure - his name is merely a word on tongues and lips, for his dominion was the rulership of the dust-heap, and his sovereignty was without foundation.  AB09441

This is why in the Middle Ages the Cause of God had reached such a state that no trace remained of Christ's teachings - Christian princes and kings all fell upon each other and there was constant warfare.   ABU0531

There were [certain tribes] prior to the time of Moses who numbered among the Arab clans that are no more, that is, no sign of them has remained... They disappeared as a result of floods, storms and earthquakes.  ABU2140

The renowned Ardishir renewed the sovereignty of the ancients and united and organized scattered territories. But what benefit was it, when in the end it became scattered again and resulted in ruin and desolation?  AB09848

Consider how, may large cities have been built by ancient monarchs but today they are all destroyed and are hidden under the earth. Once they were thriving and progress into communities, now their voices are silenced.  BHU0013

This Islamic nation that was once at such heights--what has become of it now that they must beseech the Christians to admit them to their hospitals? Later they turned away, declined, and completely forgot these things.   ABU1445

For one thousand three hundred years, the star of the Zoroastrians' existence had vanished in the west of non-existence. They had completely disappeared from sight, living scattered and disorganized, captive to the oppression of tyrants  AB03247

Then gradually that spring was followed by the autumn of death and decay. The teachings of Christ were forgotten. The Christly bounties ceased. Divine moralities disappeared. Day ended in night. The people became negligent and oblivious.   ABU0394

"It is evident that negligence from God brings a nation to this path; lack of administration throws people into such defeats. If the Turks were watchful of their interests, a thousand years may have passed without losing any of their domains."   ABU2586

Look at the kings and queens who have passed! They all lie under the earth. No name and no trace, nor any monument or surviving fruit remained of them. Their life belonged to the world of dust and consequently it passed away and was extinguished.  AB12148


Hertek [Hardegg] and his followers were men of religious zeal and spirituality. They were inspired by an ideal vision and filled with the holiest thoughts but their descendents have lost that fair, heavenly outlook and have turned unto busy farmers, merchants and traders.   ABU2633

How would they feel if their ghosts returned and looked upon this dismal picture of complete desolation! The wild, roving Arabs pitching their tents in the ruins of those gorgeous palaces, they have become the dung-heaps of animals and men, stables for their asses and horses!   ABU1001

"What is barbarism? Barbarism is the unrestricted dominion of unbridled impulses. If the vernacular language shows slovenliness and arbitrariness, and is subordinated to the language of the material or spiritual conquerors and victors, it becomes the death-knell of the freedom of a people!"  ABU0201

Under the teachings of Moses, the Israelites reached a high condition of fame and glory, riches and power - then their power began to wane as their religion became corrupted and the time came when a New Manifestation was needed and again the Divine Light appeared in the Person of Jesus Christ.   ABU0525

To Miss Boylan and Edith Sanderson, in Thonon last summer, 'Abdul Baha said: When Jesus Christ came to this world, He planted a tree. I have come to see what has become of that tree. The branches are all turned toward the earth. Turning to Edith, He said: Could you not help me to lift them up again toward Heaven? ABU3389

Indeed, if we were to closely consider this, we would see that the older societies are completely unaware of religion and are captives of nature. No sign of divine bounties is discerned among them, nor is any heavenly fragrance inhaled from them. They are governed by certain traditions and customs and follow the ways of their forefathers.  ABU1172

The reason for their irreligion, as well as their reluctance towards matters of spirituality, stems from the blind imitation of those religious leaders of the past who promoted, in the name of religion, all sorts of vain imaginings that were contrary to science and reason. As a result of their actions, the people developed an aversion to religion.  ABU3675

From its earliest days, Thou didst make the soil of Persia to be musk scented and soul stirring, gem laden and knowledge bearing. Above its east shineth at all times Thy luminous Orb, and from its west appeareth the radiant moon. Its land fostereth love, its heavenly plains teem with enchanting herbs and flowers, its slopes are replete with fresh and delectable fruits, its meadows are the envy of the garden of Eden, its wisdom beareth tidings of the celestial realm, its fervour is that of the fathomless and surging ocean. For a time, the flame of its knowledge was extinguished and the star of its greatness hidden beneath a veil. Its vernal breezes gave way to autumnal blasts, and its delightsome rose-garden was filled with tares and thorns; its wellspring of limpid waters turned brackish and stale, and its greatest and most precious souls were made homeless wanderers in distant lands; its effulgent light was dimmed and its mighty river reduced to a narrow stream. AB01999

There was a time when Persia was like a fragrant Bouquet perfuming all the nostrils and she was the center of the glory and honor of the world of humanity. The inhabitants of Persia from a social, industrial, political and moral standpoint were superior to the rest of mankind. Now the conditions are changed and the same lofty standard is not kept waving aloft. Like a great giant she is prostrated on the ground while groaning with a pitiful voice.   ABU1588

The land of Persia is the Orient, and the people of Persia are precious and beloved. The realm of Iran is the Eastern clime and has been the country of the godly ones from the beginning. For a time, there came a decline and negligence appeared. The moon of its glory's zenith set, and the star of its wisdom and knowledge descended. The wise became foolish and the learned became ignorant. A light shone forth from a foreign land and an army arrived from a neighboring realm. The carpet of the Persians was rolled up and the joy of the Iranians came to an end. The bright day became dark in their sight and the rose garden became a thorny wilderness.  AB02897

there is always present the tendency to nullify the action of the Divine Law or Religion. The religion of Moses attained its highest development and before the time of Christ it had been acted upon by human forces. So, Christianity reached its zenith and outside forces entered until the Divine Law became to an extent superseded. A man may with the utmost care attend to a garden for a hundred years, but if it be neglected for a single year it will become a wilderness. ABU2089

Would a reasonable and gallant soul consent to witness thousands of his fellow beings wallowing in blood and dust for the sake of a piece of land or for fame and renown, to hear the heart-rending cries of the wives and children of the slain, to see prosperous lands laid waste, and to have the wealth and resources which are the fruit of years of toil in agriculture, commerce and industry by the subjects of a realm expended in a single day on a battlefield of carnage and dishonor?  ABU0242

During the Russo-Turkish war about 40 years ago, it was announced one day that Russia is defeated. This news created a furor amongst the inhabitants of Acca and on that very evening illuminated all the streets and Bazaars. Next morning it was gravely and greviously given out that the Turkish Commander has been made a prisoner by the Russian Army and they are on their march to Constantinople. The same thing happened three or four years ago during the Turkish-Italian war in Tripoli.  ABU0509

Glory be to God! The arch of Ctesiphon's palace, which was once adorned with the utmost ornaments, now has spider webs instead of gold-woven curtains. Instead of the royal drums that were beaten morning and evening (that is, the drum house), there is now the cawing of crows and ravens and the cry of owls. As is stated in the Tablet to the Sultan: It has become as though it were the seat of the echo's rule, where nothing can be heard from its sides except the reverberation of its own sound.  ABU0131

If the Iranians and Turks had not opposed each other, all these kingdoms would still be under their power today. But they fell into such heedlessness that whenever the Turks were busy with conquests on the European frontiers, the Iranians, seeing them occupied, would attack them, and whenever the Iranians became thus engaged, the Turks would assault them. They gave each other no peace, and every day they pursued pleasure and personal gain and selfish aims until they squandered that glory and laid waste such prosperous realms.  ABU2134

How many dynasties of kings and rulers who were in the utmost pomp and glory and wealth in this century eventually were turned homeless and impoverished! If you should travel in all parts of the world, you shall see that all the rulers and kings have fallen into perdition and extinction, and their well-guarded palaces have become changed into crumbling graves. They have no trace, no sign, and no consequence; rather, they have all become afflicted with loss. The only signs they have left is the sign of their conquered and dispersed armies.  AB04549

From your travels in the western regions, Islamic lands, and certain parts of Europe, you have surely gained complete knowledge of the conditions of the deceased community. It is as you wrote - the water is stagnant, not flowing, and present happiness is but a mirage, not real water. Until one goes and sees, one cannot become aware of the true situation. It is as if there had never dwelt between Hajun and Safa a settler, nor had any night-talker passed evening hours in Mecca. Yes, the noble ones were its inhabitants, but they have all perished, and the ancestors are but stumbling blocks.  AB08404

We hope that it will again become better than before. That they will build a magnificent Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Persepolis. That Persepolis will become more prosperous than before. That they will build according to the ancient principles and establish a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. But that structure which exists must be built according to the ancient style, built in the same way. Complete it and additionally establish a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. Now the Iranians of this time have reduced their country from that glory to this poverty and abasement, and still they strive in the ruination of their land. Indeed what ignorance does!  ABU0117

After this spiritual springtime comes summer, when trees bear fruit and seeds become harvest--meaning the tree of humanity bears fruit and becomes adorned with infinite virtues. Then comes the spiritual autumn, when the gifts of the divine spring remain no more and the effects of the heavenly spring decline. The merciful perfections diminish and human eminence is transformed. Winter arrives, severe cold encompasses all, lethargy and torpidity appear, despair and regret unveil their face, darkness prevails, heedlessness and error raise their pavilions. The world of spirit and consciousness becomes deprived of the breath of the All-Merciful, and sweet fragrances are cut off.  ABU0215


These battles that men wage are like waves. For instance, one wave rides upon another, yet ultimately all these waves vanish and leave no trace. Now this wave takes great pride in having overcome another wave. Once the wave of Persia dominated all other waves, then came the wave of Greece and overcame the Persian wave. Then came the Roman wave and prevailed over all other waves. Then came the Arab wave and overcame the Roman wave, yet in the end all became equal, all waves disappeared. Now these waves too are like those waves, ultimately all become the same. Where is that Persian wave, where is that Alexandrian wave, where is that wave of Roman Augustus, where is that Arab wave, where is that wave of Bonaparte, where is that wave of Charlemagne, where is that wave of Hannibal - all vanished, dominion does not endure. Physical conquests have no permanence; it is divine conquests that endure.  ABU0301

After the appearance of His Holiness the Great Messenger Muhammad Mustafa, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him, the divine teachings were transferred from Arabia to Iran and Turkistan. The lamp of guidance became a mighty torch. The divine religion gained complete promotion. Turkistan progressed in all ranks until it reached such a degree that it gained distinction from other lands. Divine and material sciences and arts progressed to such a degree that from the school of Turkistan emerged the geniuses of the time and the learned ones of the horizons. Even in the Persian language they gained such proficiency that the poets of Turkistan became renowned in East and West. Afterwards decline occurred and that progress was transformed into regression. Those brilliant traces were lost and that civilizational luminosity was transformed into a strange dimness. AB01867

Former nations thought that they with their antique and imperial civilization were secure in the cradle of prosperity but one of those great periodic revolutions swept over them and buried them and all their proud monuments under the ground! When a traveler passes through one of those old Saharas he sees here a monolith. "What is this?" he inquires "This is the last remain of the once flourishing Greek culture." the guide answers him. Then he observes dilapidated temples, tall granite pillars, miles of aqueducts, half-buried palaces, ivy-covered amphitheatres, excavated mausoleums. "What are these?" he asks with incredible amazement. "Oh! these are the silent tales of mighty civilizations." Where is the great Shaddad and the powerful Nimrod? Where are the nations of Add and Thamoud? They were indeed very great but they are all gone into the dim past.   ABU0868

If one were to travel through the deserts of Central Asia he would observe how many cities, once great and prosperous like Paris and London, are now demolished and razed to the ground. From the Caspian Sea to the River Oxus there stretch wild and desolate plains, deserts, wildernesses and valleys. For two days and two nights the Russian railway traverseth the ruined cities and uninhabited villages of that wasteland. Formerly that plain bore the fruit of the finest civilizations of the past. Tokens of development and refinement were apparent all around, arts and sciences were well protected and promoted, professions and industries flourished, commerce and agriculture had reached a high stage of efficiency, and the foundations of government and statesmanship were laid on a strong and solid basis. Today that vast stretch of land hath become mostly the shelter and asylum of Turkoman tribes, and an arena for the ferocious display of wild beasts.  AB00022

Iran, whose government in recent times has not been a great power - look at the Ottoman Empire with all its strength, power, and military preparations, how weak and humbled they have become. Why? Because they became deprived of divine confirmation and became occupied with personal imaginings and selfish interests. Despite all this, things will not remain thus - neither will Iran's abasement endure nor will Paris's ornament and glory. A time will come when this city will be ruined and become a source of pain and sorrow. Without doubt it will not continue in this manner. All things are subject to change and transformation, to ascent and decline, like the human body. What is needed is effort and striving and hope in divine confirmation, not heedlessness, pride, vanity and laxity. Since one has no encompassing knowledge of the consequences of affairs, therefore one must always take the path of mindfulness and wisdom, and learn lessons from the past for the future. In the Qur'an it says "See what was the end of the wrongdoers" - meaning look at these plains and hills: there are armies that were defeated, forces that were scattered and leveled with the dust, pavilions that became ruins, and halls and palaces that became the nests of crows and owls. The thornbush wasteland - all profits are losses except the longing for divine servitude and service at the heavenly court and celestial success. ABU0912

If one goes to Persepolis, one can see how buildings are constructed. Yet there is no edifice that does not fall into ruin. Persepolis, with all its grandeur, was destroyed and demolished - what then of these lesser buildings? Those who say Jamshid built this edifice speak without knowledge. Persepolis was built by Gushtasb, Isfandiyar, and Darius. They laid these foundations, though the full truth is quite detailed. Few ruins of this caliber can be found. This edifice is situated on a mountainside and has several levels. In front of it they built a wall ten cubits high. It has two staircases, one on the right and one on the left. These staircases are sixty feet long, but they are remarkable stairs, with each step one-fourth and one knot in height. When you reach the top of the stairs, you turn right for sixty feet and left for fifty feet, totaling one hundred and ten feet. The staircases on the left similarly extend sixty feet to the left and fifty feet to the right, and these stairs are constructed such that a person's feet do not bend and horses can ascend and descend with perfect ease. When you reach the top, you see a platform that is four hundred and seventy cubits (470) in length and [two hundred and ninety] (290) cubits in width. It is a very large platform. Gushtasb built a gateway atop this platform, setting up four pillars. Atop these four pillars are four creatures. The body of the creature is like a bull, with a human head and wings. Behind these figures, they raised the pillars to nine cubits. This is a corridor through which one enters the terrace that had forty columns. This building was overseen by Gushtasb and completed by Isfandiyar. Here too the stairs are short. Up above is the forty-columned hall. The columns are very large and tall, though not monolithic. They are in three pieces but joined so perfectly that no seams are visible. Beyond the forty-columned hall, one reaches the buildings constructed by Darius. It has elaborate rooms. For example, its gateway consists of three stones - two large vertical pieces and one piece across. Its walls are of cut stone that still shine like mirrors to this day. It has such delicacy that one's reflection can be seen in it, but alas it has fallen into ruin. Most of the columns have fallen. Of the forty columns, thirteen remain standing. Besides this forty-columned building there is another building that had one hundred columns, very elaborate.  ABU0117

Reflect upon the generations of old. Where is Alexander and his like? Where are their victorious standards and their upraised banners? Where are their brandished spears and their flying arrows? Where are their outstretched necks and their lofty palaces? Where are their pitched tents and their raised pavilions? Where are their effective commands and their towering strongholds? Where is the clash of their swords and the neighing of their steeds? Where are the warbling of their birds and the melodies of their singers? Where is the cooing of their doves and the murmuring of their rivers? Where is he at whose might the world trembled and nations were distressed? Where is he who prided himself in dominion while turning away from the Kingdom? Where is he whom vainglory seized until he turned away from the Lord of Might? Where is he who ruled the horizons? Where is he who broke the Covenant? Where is she at whose swaying and stature the willow branch was put to shame, and at the unveiling of whose beauty and countenance the sun stood still? Where are the palaces of the Caesars and the branches of the Pharaohs? Where is the might of the Chosroes and the tyranny of oppressors? Where is he whom ranks deceived and who saw thousands behind him? Where is he who soared in the atmosphere of vainglory and turned away from God, the Lord of Resurrection? Where are their carpets and their delights, their glory and their power? Where are their treasures and their ornaments, their commands and their temples? God hath brought them down from the highest chambers of their palaces to the lowest depths of their graves. Were anyone to search therein, could he distinguish the skulls of kings from subjects, or the fingers of the wealthy from the destitute? Nay, by the Lord of the Kingdom and the Sovereign of the Realm! They have returned to their dwellings and rest in their tombs. Their stations and conditions have been taken from them. Verily, we are God's and to Him we shall return.  BH00017
