At the time of Muhammad, He sanctioned war for the preservation of the lives of His followers. The laws of individual justice were confused and preliminary in the souls of men. Therefore, the law of general justice of the community was revealed by this Prophet. He commanded His followers to carry the Religion of God by the sword. When a man is about to take poison, it is right to dash the cup from his hand even with extreme violence. It will inflict injury but at the same time save his life. There must be a law to prevent the wolves , from destroying the lambs at such a period of religious history. That is why the Shepherd sanctioned such vigorous protection for the sheep. Behind such laws of a Manifestation there is always a supreme wisdom.  ABU2396

Today victory is through remembrance and utterance, not through sword and spear. Weapons have been transformed into means of peace, discord into concord, and war into peace.  BH03291

God has forbidden the rule of the sword and ordained in its place loving-kindness and glory   BH11335

The law of Jihad has ever been a veritable firebrand with which the Ulemas of Islam have threatened the world from time to time. In former ages its moral influence upon the army and the public at large was tremendous, because it placed in the soul of the soldiers an unconquerable spiritual motive. They were no more fighting for their country, they were fighting for the religion of God. If any one of them came out of the struggle alive he was satisfied because he had served his God and if he fell with the sword of the bullet of the enemy he believed he would go to Paradise and enjoy the fruits of a martyred life. Once this law was promulgated by the Sheik-ol-Islam, the power of restraining the religious fury of the Moslems was entirely out of his hand. Even if he desired he could not bring down the floodgate of fanaticism, till it had spent its fury and force. In these days, the law of Jihad is shorn of much of its spiritual power, because the Mohamadans have become more intelligent and are not easily swept away by a seeming torrent of prejudices. Some, however, think that the Mohamadan world is divested of much of its former Faith and Zeal on account of clerical innovations. Be it as it may, there is no need of much feverish anxiety on account of Jihad.... Moreover there are two kinds of Jihad: minor and major. Minor Jihad means fighting with the enemies of the religion of Islam; major Jihad signifies fighting with the enemy of the Self.  For this reason the following tradition is recorded from the lips of a god-fearing adept: 'From minor Jihad we have turned our attention to the major Jihad;- that is, we have quitted fighting with the outside enemy and are concentrating our forces on the defeat of the inside foe - the foe of the spirit. This is interpreted as the real Jihad. ABU0324

The decree of holy war and strife hath been erased from the Book by the finger of divine power.  BH01620

warfare and conflict would arise between the Babi and Shi'ih parties, with many slain on both sides  BH02242

Mohammed only defended himself from wandering tribes. The people from whom Mohammed came were a savage, idolatrous people, given to all manner of evil habits. They would bury their children alive.  ABU1002

Today 'Abdu'l-Baha told amazing stories regarding the World War and the proclamation of jihad by the Muslims   ABU3276

in this Most Great Cycle the lesser jihad of physical warfare is forbidden and condemned   AB02333

Fighting, and the employment of force, even for the right cause, will not bring about good results.  ABU3036

Praise be to God, there is no need for sword or spear, for the piercing blade or the strength of men's arms.  AB05090

The Seal of the Prophets commanded that in three days seven hundred souls be put to death, and 'Ali and Zubayr beheaded them. And were all those who were slain as mentioned in the Qur'an to be recorded, all would be seized with wonderment. Consider in the Bayanic Dispensation how many souls were consigned to perdition. In every city they killed and were killed. Yet despite this they have objected to this Wronged One, saying "Why was such a one killed, and such a one deprived of life?" Say: Leave this, that another party may raise these same objections, for it was characteristic of both the Bayan and the Qur'an to purify the earth of souls. But this Wronged One, by God's command, hath removed these things and strictly forbidden them in His Books, His Scriptures and His Tablets. BH06836

The term religious war is a misnomer, because there can be no war where there is religion. All we have is a hollow sham, a pretense.  ABU3418

At the time of Muhammad, He sanctioned war for the preservation of the lives of His followers. He commanded His followers to carry the Religion of God by the sword.  ABU2396

That was why those holy ones were commanded to defend themselves. This was the basis of warfare in Islam - that whenever they defended themselves, they defeated their opponents.  ABU2230

Today is the day of rendering assistance unto God, and this assistance hath never been and is not by the sword, for in this most great Manifestation all have been forbidden from corruption, contention and warfare   BH01595

Know thou that We have annulled the rule of the sword, as an aid to Our Cause, and substituted for it the power born of the utterance of men. Thus have We irrevocably decreed, by virtue of Our grace.   BH00846

We forbade the servants from warfare and contention, yet some committed that which We prohibited and transgressed the bounds set by God. But God hath pardoned whom He willeth, for He is powerful over all things.   BH00696

Beware lest ye shed the blood of anyone. Unsheathe the sword of your tongue from the scabbard of utterance, for therewith ye can conquer the citadels of men's hearts. We have abolished the law to wage holy war against each other.  BH00007

Beware lest ye shed the blood of any one. Unsheathe the sword of your tongue from the scabbard of utterance, for therewith ye can conquer the citadels of men's hearts. We have abolished the law to wage holy war against each other.  BH00005

Say: O people! Shed not blood, for it hath been forbidden unto you in the Book from the presence of the Mighty, the Wise. Say: God hath sent Me for harmony and unity. Fear God, O people of the earth, and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH00545


The triumph of a single pure deed is, in the sight of God, greater than the victory of an army that striveth in the path of God, for the shedding of blood is not beloved, and in this Most Great Revelation, victory hath been ordained through word and utterance   BH07549

As to your asking God to grant you that whereby people wage war against each other, that you might thereby aid your Lord - hear thou that We have lifted the decree of the sword and spear, and have ordained victory through utterance, through that which proceeds from the tongue.   BH03468

"They had no fear. They never knew when they were in their homes, at what moment ten or twenty persons armed with swords would arrive. They had no fear. In the beginning of the Cause they used to defend themselves. One of them would overcome twenty or thirty. Then when they understood the Teachings, they no longer defended themselves."  ABU0950

I swear by God, O my master, in this Revelation the decree of war and strife is entirely forbidden. The divine assistance that is written of and mentioned in God's Tablets refers to teaching through utterance, not through contention and combat, as has occurred in the land until now, which caused several pure and holy souls to be martyred.  BH02236

By God! Victory lieth in expression, not in sword and spear, and thus have We revealed in all the Tablets, yet the people perceived it not and were among the corrupt. And thereby was shed the blood of those a single soul of whom is, in the sight of thy Lord, better than these oppressors, for they claim to believe yet slay its Establisher and Confirmer.  BH02827

"No Divine Messenger ever encouraged strife, or suggested that the sword be used in promulgating his teachings. When followers of Christ or Mahomet have resorted to this means of spreading their faith, imagining that they were justified by the words of their Master, they have mistaken the symbols of his teaching for its reality and have done that which he had, in fact, forbidden."  ABU1046

O unfair one! Hast thou not heard that the Ancient Beauty - may the spirit of all who dwell in the realm of the Unseen be sacrificed for Him - hath wholly abolished the law of killing, and throughout the twelve years of His sojourn in Iraq wrote to all regions that none should ever molest another, and specifically revealed regarding this land that triumph hath not been and shall not be through combat and strife but through wisdom and utterance?  BH00814

We have lifted the law of the sword and have established in its place the law of utterance. Well is it with them who possess understanding and who have held fast unto that which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Book. Despite this decisive and firm Word, it is observed that some still remain in doubt and misgiving, and through their personal delusions are engaged in interpreting the word of victory. Say: What aileth you that ye comprehend not and perceive not?   BH00867

God hath made jihad one of the branches of religion, and it is like prayer when God and His chosen ones call for justice. Indeed, He sent Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, with five swords, three of which shall not be sheathed until war lays down its burdens.... These are the swords with which God sent the Prophet, peace be upon him and his family. Whoever denies them, or denies one of them, or anything of their conduct and rulings, hath disbelieved in what God has revealed to Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family. These are the ordinances of jihad as God the Exalted hath revealed to Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family. BB00039

When and where it was necessary, God told Moses to conquer his enemies who came up to destroy him and the Israelites. Christ lived only three years of His ministry, but as He came to prepare the world for the coming of God, He lived until His mission was accomplished. He had only twelve apostles, and about seventy followers in all who believed in Him at that time, but Mohammed had thousands, and as they had only to hear him to be induced to believe, the surrounding nations threatened to destroy him and his people; so he was compelled to fight to save himself and his followers from destruction.  ABU1002

Yea, in this Cause the sword is the divine fragrances. That sword killed, this one gives life; that one destroyed, this one builds; that one caused chaos, this one brings order. Great is the difference between that sword and this sword. But God doeth whatsoever He willeth and decrees as He desireth. At that time, such was required; now, this is what is needed. That sword conquered fortresses of stone and iron; this sword conquers fortresses and hearts. That sword spoke of divine wrath; this sword speaks of God's infinite mercy. That sword was the cause of separation and division; this sword is the cause of unity and harmony.  ABU0194

Those were the early days of the Cause and no one was informed of the divine teachings. All followed the law of the Qur'an and regarded warfare, retribution, and retaliation as permissible.   AB00098

In the past, during the time of the Apostle of God - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - the ordinance of holy war was revealed, and in this Most Great, Most Mighty Manifestation that ordinance hath been lifted. He shall not be asked of His doings. Verily He is the Commander, the Questioner, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH00089

All know that previously, every year witnessed strife and conflict, with many souls slain on both sides - one year in Tabarsi, another in Zanjan, another in Nayriz. But after this Wronged One's departure to Iraq, by permission of His Majesty the Sultan, We forbade all from corruption and strife. If thou deniest this, the world beareth witness, though certain slanderers and deniers have concealed the good deeds of the Most Exalted Pen and spoken and continue to speak according to their desires. But by the life of God! Baha speaketh not from desire, but rather uttereth that which draweth mankind unto the Most Sublime Horizon.  BH00018