

Trustworthiness is a sun that, when it shineth forth from the horizon of the heaven of wisdom, illumineth all regions. And for it hath been ordained a heaven, and verily it is man himself. Blessed be the All-Merciful Who hath created all possibility and adorned it with the lights of this sun, shining from this station. He in whom the lights of this sun shine not forth cannot truly be called man. To this doth the Book of God, the Lord of lords, bear witness. Blessed is the city that is illumined thereby. By My life! It is the mother of cities and countries, and through it divine grace descendeth from God, the Lord of creation, and blessings grow in every season. Through it is man's station elevated and his essence made manifest to all in creation. Through it are hearts expanded and souls assured and the righteous made joyful. He who hath attained unto it is remembered by the Concourse on High and is turned unto by people of understanding. He who hath opened his eyes with the light of recognition chooseth it above all else on earth. Verily thy Lord is the Mighty, the All-Knowing. Thus have We adorned the heaven of deeds with the sun of trustworthiness and recognition. BH04634

Adorn your tongues with truthfulness   BH11527

carry out the requirements of fidelity  AB12691

one must respond with complete trustworthiness   ABU2970

ye may tread the path of truthfulness and rectitude   AB11916

truthfulness and trustworthiness and justice in affairs  AB00808

Hold fast unto trustworthiness, chastity and faithfulness.   BH10116

"Hold fast to the cord of trustworthiness and faithfulness"  BH09176

We have counseled all to be trustworthy, truthful and faithful   BH10627

Speak naught but truth and walk in no path save that of justice.   BH02683

We counsel thee to be trustworthy, religious, truthful and sincere.  BH04007

We have counseled all to be trustworthy, religious, and God-fearing   BH04845

There are no secrets among Baha'is; a Baha'i does not hide anything.  ABU2303

The heaven of human dignity is illumined by the light of truthfulness.   BH08142

appear amongst men with the utmost trustworthiness and goodly character   BH04691

We counsel all to trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness and purity   BH03761

Among the divine teachings are trustworthiness, detachment and sanctity.   ABU2825

We counsel all to trustworthiness, religiosity, chastity and faithfulness.  BH02815

We have found from them both the fragrance of trustworthiness and fidelity.   BH03348

"We counsel those who have believed to observe trustworthiness and chastity"  BH06212

We have enjoined upon them that have believed the Most Great Trustworthiness   BH06067

We counsel you, O people of unity, to be trustworthy and religious and chaste   BH04437

Through it the Cause of God and His dominion over all religions shall be exalted  BH09250

Rectitude and trustworthiness are essential to faith, not discord and corruption.   BH00718

We have made glory an ornament for your souls and truthfulness a crown for your heads.  BH09839

We beseech God to open through thee the gates of trustworthiness among all creatures.   BH00384

Hold fast to the cord of trustworthiness amongst all people and speak with pure truthfulness   BH04727

Strive as much as you can in your department to become recognized for truthfulness and honesty  AB12386

The believers must be firmly founded in the principles of morality and honesty. First--Truthfulness; no one should ever tell a lie! Second--Honesty in all their transactions. ABU2077

The ornament of the human temple is truthfulness. Blessed is the soul that is adorned therewith.  BH07952

And likewise I counsel them to two most excellent attributes: religiousness and trustworthiness.   BH07543

Trustworthiness is the most brilliant jewel in the diadem which crowns man's heavenly attributes.  ABU3622

Now my possessions are the ideals and knowledge of Truth. I must protect them from the intruders.  ABU3002

This Wronged One enjoineth on you honesty and piety. Blessed the city that shineth by their light.  BH00005

He must be a worshipper of Truth, the standard-bearer of justice, and the champion of civilization.   ABU2141

He hath not lied, and speaketh what he hath seen, and commandeth what he was commanded by God  BH02891

Let us associate with all peoples with the utmost truthfulness, trustworthiness, love and faithfulness.  AB12275

We act with utmost truthfulness, honesty, trustworthiness and goodwill towards all peoples of the world   AB01037

Speak the truth, stand with truth, and utter truth, even if thou shouldst behold all on earth as enemies   BH02940

The horizon of trustworthiness has been darkened after We had commanded all to observe it in My wise Book  BH06153

We counsel him who hath turned towards the Most Sublime Horizon to observe the Most Great Trustworthiness   BH08703

they are adorned and embellished with the ornament of truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness and fidelity.  BH02204

"The Bahais must be prompt in the fulfilment of their promise, and perform whatever promise they have given."   ABU0266

We counsel thee with that which beseemeth man - trustworthiness, religious devotion, righteousness and prosperity.  BH04318

these souls have engaged in this company with trustworthiness, religiosity, and sincerity and with the utmost zeal  AB10212

He directeth thee unto trustworthiness and sincerity. Be characterized by this twain; embrace these two qualities.   BH08287

Be trustworthy in the trust of thy Lord...Strive thou therefore to preserve them, and be thou faithful to the truth.  BH08062

you must serve...with the utmost sincerity...and truthfulness...day by day your truthfulness may become more evident  AB12365

Certainly serve the government with the utmost truthfulness, trustworthiness, zeal, honor, uprightness and goodwill   AB03376

We counsel them to trustworthiness and godliness and patience and forbearance, and I am the Patient, the Forbearing.   BH02103

We counsel thee and Our loved ones to observe justice and fairness, trustworthiness and righteousness, and kindliness   BH04815

Praise be to God that whatsoever hath been manifested at the Threshold hath clearly distinguished truth from falsehood.   BH07367

Blessed is the soul that shines with the light of trustworthiness among all and is a sign of perfection among the people.  AB02974

Be ye steadfast, and be ye trustworthy, and do that whereby the Cause of God, the Powerful, the Almighty, may be exalted.   BH09424

My hope is that you will be as I desire - that your path and conduct will be one of truthfulness, uprightness and justice.   AB04324

We counsel you with that which befitteth man: to be patient and forbearing, trustworthy and religious, truthful and faithful   BH06988

We have enjoined upon all trustworthiness and godliness, and that whereby their stations may be elevated amidst the peoples.   BH11174

Praise be to God that thy truthfulness, honesty and integrity have become established before all, both friends and strangers   AB07533

The door of wealth is trustworthiness. We counsel all Our loved ones to observe it. Hold fast unto it, then know its station.   BH10486

And We counsel at the end of the Book Our loved ones and friends to trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness, and sincerity.   BH00818

Adorn your temples with the ornament of trustworthiness and courtesy, and your heads with the crown of truthfulness and wisdom.  BH09100

The Most Exalted Pen hath counseled all to be trustworthy and truthful and to manifest whatsoever befitteth the station of man.   BH05011

Truth is a precious pearl that has remained estranged and veiled within the shell of contingent existence, hidden and concealed.  AB05153

Everything praiseworthy spreads rapidly. But the children must first be taught religion so that they may be sincere and trustworthy.  ABU3483

Say: Be ye My trustees on earth, that every seeker and every aspirant may find in you the fragrance of trustworthiness and assurance.  BH02473

However, in all matters you must make your intention pure and conduct yourself with the utmost trustworthiness and religious devotion.  AB04676

We have beseeched and do beseech God to adorn and illumine all with the lights of trustworthiness, religion, truthfulness and sincerity.  BH06760

It is essential that they conduct themselves with the utmost degree of truthfulness and good-will, with the greatest purity and dignity.  AB12495

The best capital and the most profitable business is honesty in all things. Do thou continue to be honest in thy dealings for one month.   ABU3329

Verily He counseleth His servants to truthfulness and faithfulness, and that whereby the Cause of God, the Lord of Names, may be uplifted   BH06893

We counsel Our loved ones to...trustworthiness and truthfulness and that whereby the Cause of God, the Lord of all worlds, may be exalted   BH04556

Let them be content with their wages, and seek distinction in truthfulness, straightforwardness, and the pursuit of virtue and excellence.  AB06831

We counsel thee to patience and forbearance, and to trustworthiness which God hath made a crown for the heads of them that are nigh unto Him.  BH01650

Adorn yourselves with the ornament of trustworthiness among all people, that through it God's sanctification may be made manifest in all else.   BH06729

At all times gaze toward the horizon of the All-Merciful, and walk among people with utmost truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness and piety.  BH06104

O servants of the All-Merciful! We counsel you to observe trustworthiness, truthfulness and fidelity, and to fear God, the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH02551

Solomon said, "Deliverance is in truthfulness. Had I told him differently, he would not have believed me and would have probably killed both of us."   ABU1984

Say: O friends! The heaven of human station hath ever been and shall remain illumined and adorned by two luminaries: steadfastness and trustworthiness.  BH06086

Say: The Bayan is as the earth, and trustworthiness is as its water. We have adorned the heaven of laws with the stars of trustworthiness and truthfulness  BH08953

Let the light of truth and honesty shine in your faces so that all may know that your word in business or pleasure may be a word to trust and be sure of.   ABU1113

We have enjoined upon all to observe trustworthiness, chastity, purity and fidelity throughout all nights and days. Blessed are they that act accordingly.   BH00272

"God willing, we hope that the Truth, exalted be His glory, will adorn all with the ornament of trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness and sincerity."   BH02596

Adorn your tongues with truthfulness, your temples with the ornament of trustworthiness, and your hearts with the remembrance of God, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH05160

The fruits of the tree of existence which are attributed to God, glorified be He, have been and are trustworthiness, religiousness, truthfulness and sincerity.   BH02374

He delivered the trusts safely and securely... He is truly my trusted one. He is sincere in service... he has served with complete truthfulness and uprightness.   AB04326

Trustworthiness is the sign of God amongst His creation. Blessed is the soul that hath clung fast unto it. It is the key to wealth and the door to grace and bounty.   BH07368

The trust bestowed upon man is as his head, and truthfulness is as his sight - and if anyone be deprived of these two, he shall be mentioned by the name of 'animal'.  BH06989

Above all other things we must be honest to our consciences and not dissimulate. Before making any statement we must investigate it well, whether it is true or not.   ABU1005

The Wronged One of the world remembereth you from the prison of the people of discord, and calleth you unto trustworthiness, truthfulness, steadfastness and fidelity.   BH09448

Now, after this long period, the station of Mary Magdalene has been revealed. Hence we must have faith that at the proper time every reality will likewise become revealed.  ABU1908

For example, if today a soul becomes successful in trustworthiness and manifests praiseworthy qualities and virtues, this will surely become the cause of guidance for people.  BH07536

If he is in government, he should arise to fulfill the necessary duties with perfect justice and trustworthiness. But instead of trustworthy guardians, traitors took charge.   ABU0822

"We beseech God to aid thee to manifest pure truthfulness and to speak among the people of what thou hast witnessed and seen. Beware lest thou add or subtract a single letter."  BH01025

No attribute is more commendable than faithfulness. It is of the greatest of the virtues in the world of humanity. I hope that thou mayest be faithful to the Lord of the Kingdom   AB07576

Be worthy of the trust of thy neighbor... a preserver of the sanctity of thy pledge... Let integrity and uprightness distinguish all thine acts... a crown to the brow of fidelity   BH03420

The best garment in the sight of the Lord of Oneness, after trustworthiness, has been and ever shall be truthfulness. Hold fast unto it and be free and detached from its opposite.   BH10676

Those which strive to speak only that which is truth, which hold the mirror up to truth, are like the sun: they light the world everywhere with truth and their work is imperishable.   ABU3165

If the loved ones of God be not adorned with the ornament of trustworthiness, truthfulness and rectitude, the harm thereof will revert upon those souls themselves and upon all people.   BH00501

I have already told you. Have I to repeat again the same propositions? Without heeding their heated protestations he gently said: 'Are you not satisfied with our former stipulations?'   ABU0296

Fix your gaze in all conditions upon steadfastness and trustworthiness. These two qualities are as two great luminaries shining forth and manifest from the heaven of the divine Tablet.   BH03081

O Ahmad! The breathings of truth are clearly evident and distinguishable from falsehood. Hearken unto the call of the true and trusted One, and regard all else save God as non-existent.   BH00857

"If you are truthful, you cannot commit murder. You would have to confess it! Neither can you steal. You would have to confess it. So, if one is truthful, he possesses all the virtues."   ABU2362

Be ye trustees of God in His dominions and the embodiments of truthfulness throughout His realms...Be ye trustees of God in His lands and dawning-places of truthfulness in His countries.   BH02064

Truthfulness and sincerity became the cause of your guidance and enabled you to attain this bounty. If you did not possess truthfulness, you certainly would not have investigated reality.  AB04297

"If in government, arise with necessary duties and perfect justice and trustworthiness...In every matter one must behave with utmost truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness and fairness"   ABU0535


For verily, he who adorneth himself with the ornament of trustworthiness is remembered by the Concourse on High, and upon him do the denizens of the realms of dominion and kingdom offer prayers.   BH08211

The beloved of God must make commerce a means of guiding people - that is, they should astonish others in their dealings by demonstrating such truthfulness, such trustworthiness, and such goodwill.  AB10550

We counsel all to trustworthiness, religion, and chastity. O friends! Whosoever is adorned with these attributes is reckoned among God's servants and his name is mentioned in the Concourse on High.   BH02925

A man deprived of this quality is destitute of everything. What shall faith and piety avail if trustworthiness be lacking? Of what consequence can they be? What benefit or advantage can they confer?   AB01059

After a thorough investigation, all that remains must be delivered in full to the heirs and divided according to the Book of God. Blessed is the one who is adorned with the ornament of trustworthiness.  BH02927

"I have in the house money and jewels. I have three daughters and two sons-in-laws, but I cannot trust them, and even my partner. I want to leave things in your charge and go. I can trust no one else."   ABU0717

Whoso adorneth himself with this supreme ornament, he is verily of the people of this luminous station. Beware, O people, lest ye cast it to the claws of falsehood. Fear God and be not of the wrongdoers   BH04263

Blessed is the heart that hath been illumined with the light of trustworthiness... Trustworthiness hath ever been the cause of the world's wealth and the reason for divine blessing and infinite bounties.   BH02014

Let truth bear witness and every fair-minded soul testify [...] Trustworthiness, religious devotion, truthfulness and sincerity - each of these, from whomever they have appeared, have not remained hidden.   BH00479

They who have cast trustworthiness behind their backs--these cannot be truly accounted as human, nor befit its station and rank. To this testify the Books of God, our Lord and the Lord of the mighty Throne.   BH00531

O My truthful one in the divine realm! In the divine world there is no light more brilliant than truthfulness and sincerity. This heavenly gift so adorns human reality that it conceals all of mankind's faults.  AB10433

God mentioneth all and commandeth what is right, and hath counseled and doth counsel to trustworthiness and godliness and praiseworthy character and goodly deeds and that whereby the station of man is exalted.   BH01930

It is hoped that, as befits and is worthy, you may become the dawning-place of mighty signs and become renowned throughout all regions for excellence in dealings, religiosity and trustworthiness among the people.  AB09378

show such trustworthiness, sincerity and effort in his work that it becomes a lesson to others. Service to him is service to me, and trustworthiness and faithfulness to him is trustworthiness and faithfulness to me.   AB05877

The text extensively discusses honesty and trustworthiness among the Baha'is: "until now the utmost honesty and trustworthiness was evident from the friends to such a degree that it became well-known in that region."   AB00453

We have ever counseled all to trustworthiness, religious devotion, truthfulness and sincerity. Some accepted, while others were prevented from the word of truth by the fire of greed, passion, avarice and transgression.   BH01016

The essence of truthfulness hath various manifestations, emanating from the reality of things - whether spoken or beheld, heard or known - and this divine subtlety requireth deep reflection that its meaning may be understood.  AB09090

He trusts them, confidence is the corner-stone of all life's activities... all the inhabitants began to trust them in all their business transactions... Such was the great confidence the people had in the Baha'is in those days   ABU1404

In character he was irreproachable, in truthfulness he was proverbial, in the fulfillment of his engagements he was an example, in the honesty of his purpose he was unquestioned and in the beauty of his life he was well-known.   ABU0136

Today, deeds are necessary, especially deeds from which the fragrance of service and trustworthiness emanates. The affairs of the Threshold have descended like swords upon the temple of trustworthiness, truthfulness, and purity.  BH00823

The servant insists on always telling the truth, leading to conflict when he bluntly points out his master's physical defect. "Truth is bitter" vs "Truth is sweeter than honey and more precious than the treasures of the Kings."   ABU1286

The loved ones of this Revelation must walk among men with utmost sanctity and detachment, and must hold fast to trustworthiness and rectitude in such wise that their light may shine forth like the morning star unto all the world.  BH02929

"But these people are pure in heart and simple in spirit; therefore, though not intellectually advanced, they are capable of grasping their portion of truth, for truth is for all. They give it out according to their understanding."  ABU3375

And in all circumstances, one must act according to the command with trustworthiness, religious devotion and justice. Verily, He aids those who hold fast to trustworthiness and justice. Indeed, He is the Guardian of those who do good.   BH00309

its foundation must be trustworthiness, religiosity and truthfulness, so that it may safeguard the rights of all people. Day by day the magnet of trustworthiness will attract and the confirmations of the Lord of Glory will be unveiled.  AB11381

Be ye God's manifestations of trustworthiness in every land. So perfectly should ye mirror forth this quality that even were ye to travel through cities heaped with gold, your gaze would not for a single moment be seduced by its allure.  BH10130

We have commanded all to be trustworthy and religious, and to that whereby the station of man may be exalted, yet the people have wrought that which hath caused the Pen of God, the Lord of the seen and the unseen, to weep.   BH00608

Trustworthiness, religion and truthfulness are as rare as the phoenix among that party, as thou hast witnessed. Say: O my God, my God! Aid the slanderers to truthfulness, the oppressors to justice, and the treacherous to trustworthiness.   BH00860

Trustworthiness has been and remains the cause of the world's prosperity, while treachery is the cause of ruin. We beseech and implore God, exalted be His glory, not to deprive countries and regions of the lights of the sun of trustworthiness.  BH01190

The ornament of man hath ever been and shall continue to be truthfulness and sincerity. O friends! Let not the ornaments of two fleeting days, which all testify shall perish, deprive you of the everlasting bounty and the heavenly food sent down.  BH11714

Those who are employed in government service should make their duties a means of drawing near to the divine threshold, and occupy themselves with integrity and uprightness, completely avoiding bribery and corruption, being content with their salary   AB00817

We have raised up the heaven of man and adorned it with the twin luminaries of steadfastness and trustworthiness...Say: He counseleth you to observe pure truthfulness and trustworthiness, whereby the station of every insightful soul is made manifest   BH07743

Trustworthiness is the greatest portal leading unto the tranquillity and security of the people. In truth the stability of every affair hath depended and doth depend upon it. All the domains of power, of grandeur and of wealth are illumined by its light.  BH00308

We enjoin upon you trustworthiness, which God hath made the crown of all deeds. Verily, He is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Through truthfulness shall your stations be made manifest among the peoples, as attested by Him Who possesseth a mighty Book.   BH00557

"They have trust in us. When we first came to 'Akka, we behaved in such wise that everyone trusted us." He then relates the story of Qasim of Nayriz who was trusted with a large loan based on being a Baha'i, and promptly repaid it after making his profit.  ABU0916

Man in all his transactions and feelings must be sincere and straightforward. The Blessed Perfection accepted all the oppression and persecution and promulgated thereby divine Teachings so that people may become sincere in their dealings toward each other.   ABU1428

Praise be to God Who hath aided the Afnan to manifest the truth and that which beseemeth him in such days wherein the oppressors desired to veil the beauty of trustworthiness with their own treachery and the beauty of truthfulness with the veils of their lies.   BH01086

We counsel you, O loved ones of God, regarding the Most Great Trust among My servants and My creation. For through it the Cause of God is exalted among all else, and the sanctity of His Cause becomes manifest throughout the worlds. Be trustees among the servants   BH01972

You must neither defraud your neighbour nor allow him to defraud you. Such was the way of your Master. The shrewdest and ablest of men were unable to deceive Him, nor did He on His part choose to act ungenerously towards the meanest and most helpless of creatures.  BBU0013

Trustworthiness and religiosity, especially in official duties, becomes the cause of quickening souls and astonishing minds - particularly the effort you made that resulted in wheat prices dropping from forty-five tumans per kharvar to eighteen tumans per kharvar.  AB08643

The children live in the impregnable fort of truth and in every instance utter the words of truth. They are free from every form of guile and deceit. As people grow up they must carry their child-nature of truthfulness with them and let its unfoldment be constant.  ABU0165

This Wronged One hath, from the earliest days, summoned the servants unto trustworthiness, which is the greatest means for the wealth and tranquility of nations, and likewise unto religion, which is a mighty stronghold for the protection of the peoples of the world.   BH00850

We counsel you to be trustworthy and truthful that God's trustworthiness may be manifest in all else and that those in the heavens and earth may glorify Him. Be ye emblems of fidelity, the essence of creation, and dawning-places of virtuous character for all the world.   BH03175

We have counseled the friends of God, both past and present, in numerous Tablets concerning trustworthiness, religious devotion and chastity.  BH00405

The payment of debt is the greatest pillar of trustworthiness and godliness, and is an urgent obligation. Praise be to God that that beloved one was assisted, enabled and adorned therewith. The grace and favors of God have ever been and will continue to be with them that act.   BH00895

Trustworthiness is like unto the sun that illumineth the world, and its heaven is man, and its horizon is the goodly heart. He who doth not veil this most great luminary with the clouds of treachery and baseness, so that its radiance may enlighten the world and its inhabitants   BH07549

The first sign of faith is trustworthiness. He who has no trustworthiness has no faith. Man must be trustworthy - all souls must trust in his dealings, trust in his honesty, trust in his fairness, trust that he will not oppress. If man has no religion, he has no trustworthiness.  ABU2139

When this report was presented to Nadir Shah for perusal he sent for his general and rebuked him severely:- "What kind of foolish stuff is this piece of writing. It does not contain a word of truth. Why hast thou not written the naked facts as we have faced them these dark days?"  ABU0536

"You must exert your utmost in trustworthiness and religion, that your name may be elevated as befitteth you...Rather, Our purpose is that you should conduct yourself in such a way that the fragrance of trustworthiness and all that beseemeth man may be diffused among the servants."  BH02237

Thy trustworthiness, religiosity, deeds and actions have been and are remembered. Each of these attributes is counted among the highest ornaments. The warp of this garment is trustworthiness and its weft is religiosity. How excellent is this ornament, sanctified, blessed, beloved!   BH01462

We have commanded all to observe the Most Great Trustworthiness - to this beareth witness My tongue, My Pen, My limbs, and those who circle round Me, then this luminous Book. Among the people are those who have cast it behind their backs, and thereby have violated the sanctity of God   BH04488

I beseech God to adorn the world with the ornament of trustworthiness and grant truthfulness and sincerity, that the properties of the servants may remain protected from the transgressions of the treacherous and the thieves, so that there may remain no need for concealment and hiding.   BH02144

We have counseled and do counsel all with most eloquent utterance to trustworthiness and godliness and that whereby the station of man may be exalted in the contingent world. Take hold, O servants of God, of that which ye have been commanded by One Who is the Counselor, the All-Knowing.   BH00961

O thou who hast testified to the words of God! The essence of truthfulness hath various aspects emanating from the reality of things, in conformity with fact - whether spoken or beheld, whether heard or known. And in this divine subtlety deep thought is required that it may be understood.  AB09090

The Rajah sent for him, favoured him highly and made him his own companion. He even allowed Zaynu'l-'Ãbidin KhÃ¡n to sit and have his meals at the same table with him. But this Rajah hates lying and I have worked for many years in the QÃ¡jÃ¡r government and have become accustomed to lying.  ABU1367

The truthfulness that is beloved in the sight of God is that thou shouldst arise to praise His Being and occupy thyself with the mention of His Cause, for no truth can equal the Word wherewith God speaketh. Blessed, therefore, are they who attain unto this most exalted and glorious station.   BH00841

If Ustad Akbar does not deal with Aqa Kishi with love, kindness, trustworthiness and honesty, no prosperity will remain and it will ultimately lead to regret. The primary characteristic of true believers is trustworthiness whereas the primary characteristic of the rebellious is faithlessness.  AB11478

In truth, in the first degree and primary station, the purpose of creation has been and is the manifestation of trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness and sincerity, for these attributes are the cause of rest, assurance and tranquility. Blessed are those souls who have attained unto these.  BH10748

The atoms of creation bear witness to their trustworthiness, faithfulness, station and rank... The ornaments of the world are not mentioned before the trusted ones of God. That which is worthy of mention are those qualities which have been manifested among the servants from the friends of God.   BH01214

Trustworthiness before God is among those attributes that hath had and hath no likeness or equal, and it is the cause of glory and the source of wealth. Concerning its description there hath flowed from the Supreme Pen that whose fragrance shall endure throughout the kingdom of earth and heaven.   BH01013

it is indeed the effulgent sun shedding forth the light of truth on every remote land, uncovering the thick darkness enveloping the mysteries of the Outspread Roll. Did ye not see that, but for the sun shining upon them at eve and at morn, the creatures of the visible plane would not be manifest?   AB03834

Again: you must be most careful that, God forbid, not one single word contrary to truth issue from your mouths. One falsehood throws man from the highest station of honor to the lowest abyss of disgrace. Always guard yourselves against this enemy, so that all you state may correspond with reality.   ABU1347

Consider commerce as the heaven whose sun is trustworthiness and whose moon is truthfulness. Commerce is a heaven whose sun is trustworthiness and whose moon is truthfulness. Trustworthiness is mentioned as the most glorious of all things before the Truth and is recorded in God's Book.  BH09071

Again be ye most careful that, God forbid, not one single word contrary to truth may issue from your mouths. One falsehood throws man from the highest station of honor to the lowest abyss of disgrace. Always guard yourselves against this enemy;- so that all that you state may correspond with reality.  ABU1505

Truthfulness, integrity and righteousness are attributes of the pious and qualities of the sanctified. Truthfulness is the most excellent of attributes for it is inclusive of all perfections. The man of truth is vouchsafed protection from all afflictions for he abhors evil and is guarded from errors.   AB07474

The horizon of trustworthiness remains darkened and the horizon of truthfulness and faithfulness is seen to be dust-laden. I beseech and implore God, exalted be His glory, to raise up souls through whose religiosity, trustworthiness, truthfulness and faithfulness the world may be adorned and illumined.   BH00736

Truth may be likened to the sun! The sun is the luminous body that disperses all shadows; in the same way does truth scatter the shadows of our imagination. As the sun gives life to the body of humanity so does truth give life to their souls. Truth is a sun that rises from different points on the horizon.  ABU0091

Truthfulness and uprightness have ever been among the great divine attributes. Blessed are they who have clung fast thereunto. Trustworthiness, religiosity, chastity, truthfulness and purity are the distinguished garments of God, exalted be His glory. Blessed is he who adorns his temple therewith.   BH00561

O people, hold fast unto trustworthiness. I swear by the Lord of Names that had the city of 'Akka attained unto it, the face of the Cause would not have been clouded, nor would the hearts of them who are nigh have been saddened. Say: Hold ye fast unto it and cling to its hem, and be not of the ignorant ones.  BH08478

We exhort those friends who have turned toward the Prison, and who, after tarrying for a few days or months, have returned, to truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness, piety and godliness. We likewise exhort them to guard their tongues concerning matters they have not heard from the Wronged One's own tongue.  BH11486

Be ye trustees of God in His lands and dawning-places of His loving-kindness. Thus doth the Lord of all worlds nurture you from this glorious Station. Be ye so trustworthy that if your trustworthiness were to be distributed among all the peoples of the world it would suffice them, and likewise in forbearance.   BH00289

All the friends of God must strive so that the reputation of the friends for truthfulness, uprightness and devotion to reality may become established and manifest among all the peoples and governments of the world. This is nobility, this is the gift of the Lord God, this is the greatest virtue of the human world.   AB06977

truthfulness and trustworthiness and effort and goodwill toward all humanity...is incumbent and obligatory upon all and is counted as service to the Sacred Threshold. Let them consider dishonesty and laxity and untrustworthiness as sin against the Truth and rebellion and transgression in the Cause of the Lord God   AB01134

Blessed is the city that the vicissitudes of time have not prevented from the light of religion, trustworthiness and chastity. These blessed words have shone forth like the Most Great Luminary from the horizon of divine Tablets. Blessed is he who hath recognized and acted accordingly, and woe unto the heedless ones.  BH00767

...that the fragrance of trustworthiness, religion, chastity, truthfulness, sincerity and faithfulness may be diffused... so that all may know and understand that you are truthful in your statements and can prove it with clear evidence... Adorn them with the ornament of trustworthiness, justice, truthfulness and sincerity.   BH01683

Praise befitteth the Mighty Hand that raised high the standard of trustworthiness and cast down the decree of treachery, and through the light of justice adorned and illumined this darkened world. Chastity and trustworthiness are as two luminaries in the heaven of benevolence and favor, the light of each exceeding that of the sun.  BH00350

Trustworthiness and truthfulness are two garments adorned with the ornament of honor and acceptance. God willing, all must appear with perfect trustworthiness and speak with truthfulness, arising to serve God through their deeds. The manifestation of these qualities has been and ever shall be the cause of the exaltation of God's Word  BH03997

If at this time someone is desired for a position in the government and state, they must seek one who possesses the utmost truthfulness, trustworthiness and religiosity. People should testify that such a person is a Baha'i, for all their characteristics and conduct bear witness to this fact. In whatever station they may be, they must be thus.  ABU1735

Say: O people! Adorn your tongues with truthfulness and your souls with trustworthiness. Beware, O people, lest ye act treacherously toward anyone. Be ye God's trustees amongst His creatures and be of the beneficent. They that commit oppression and wickedness - their efforts shall be brought to naught and they shall be numbered with the losers.   BH00994

In truth, were the loved ones to observe and act upon the counsels and exhortations that have been revealed, the whole earth would be illumined with the light of unity... This evanescent servant beseecheth God, exalted be His glory, to adorn all with the raiment of trustworthiness and religion, and to illumine them with the light of recognition.  BH08294

The Tree of Life is full of blossoms, leaves and fruits!--shade thereof is a peace to the soul and a rest to the consciousness. Whosoever is under this Tree will certainly partake of fruit. But shade trees are many in the forest, which, though fresh and verdant, are, nevertheless, fruitless. This truth shall finally become clear and manifest unto thee.   AB03920

This depends on the appearance of the light of trustworthiness among people. Counsel the friends of God to conduct themselves among people with perfect trustworthiness, religiosity and what was mentioned before. Whoever is adorned with these qualities is attributed to Truth and reckoned of Truth; without them one has never been and will never be accepted.   BH01642

The purpose of manifestation, remembrance and utterance is that discord might be removed and replaced by unity, and that all might be adorned with blessed and praiseworthy attributes and character that preserve and elevate. Yet in some the opposite is evident - in the station of unity, discord is witnessed, and in the station of trustworthiness, treachery.  BH00019

Accordingly, this is a feast of truthfulness and a celebration of divine sincerity and love. Those who partake of the glad-tidings of the All-Merciful - their foreheads shine with manifest light, and from their conduct and behavior the signs of truthfulness, uprightness, friendship and devotion to truth become evident and manifest. It can never remain hidden.  AB02349

Verily, truthfulness can only be realized through the recognition by the servant of his Creator at the time of His appearance, and thus hath the matter been recorded in truth in all the Tablets. He who hath not attained unto His beauty hath never been truthful, even should he be deemed truthful among the people or be known for truthfulness among all creation.   BH03334

The heaven of the Cause of God is illuminated by the sun of trustworthiness. He should cling to the cord of trustworthiness and hold fast to the hem of truthfulness. These are the two most great luminaries which have risen above the horizon of the Pen of the Most High, and in the heaven of the decree of the Sovereign of mankind, they are shining and resplendent.  BH06097

However, it is strange that some souls are very eager and diligent in obtaining Tablets meant for the divine loved ones, and after obtaining them deliver some while keeping others. I beseech God to enable all to be trustworthy and honest. Alas, alas! Then alas, alas! The servant's eye weeps for what has befallen the temple of [trustworthiness] among the people.   BH00678

We have concluded the transaction and made a contract, the Bab responded. Whether the terms are favorable or disagreeable, you must now pay the full sum. But it is the custom of the realm, they said. To which He replied, Soon many of these ignoble customs will be changed. The Bab did not give in and eventually the Prussian blue dyes were brought back to His office.  ABU3669

Divine power hath made manifest the wickedness of treacherous souls. Though they imagined they had concealed it, yet those very assembled souls themselves and others bear witness to the lies and treachery of those repositories of rancor, hatred and calumny. The servant beseecheth his Lord to reveal unto all their deeds and actions. Verily, He is powerful over all things.  BH01209

Beseech the Lord that He deprive not His dominions of the effulgent light of the sun of trustworthiness, nor deny them the radiance of the Day-Star of truthfulness or the splendour of the orb of justice and equity. Trustworthiness and piety are even as two luminaries shining resplendent above the horizon of the heaven of the Tablet in which are inscribed the ordinances of God.  BH04900

All that hath befallen you hath been for God's sake, this is the truth, no doubt lieth therein. And now too refer all matters unto Him, trust in Him and commit all unto Him. Assuredly He will not abandon you, of this too there is no doubt. No father delivereth his child to the lion, and no shepherd entrusteth his sheep to the wolf. Surely he exerteth his utmost in their protection.  BH01089

"When buying, I place my thumb beside the measure to increase it, and when selling, I place my thumb in the measure to make it appear less." From there, they went to an oil seller's shop. When asked about his business, he replied, "Praise be to God, the gates of blessing are open, for when buying I take slightly less lest I be cheated, and when selling I give more than the measure."  ABU1671

The purpose of the one true God in manifesting Himself is to summon all mankind to truthfulness and sincerity, to piety and trustworthiness, to resignation and submissiveness to the Will of God, to forbearance and kindliness, to uprightness and wisdom. His object is to array every man with the mantle of a saintly character, and to adorn him with the ornament of holy and goodly deeds.  BH02224

He was a sincere soul. There was nothing about him but sincerity. Never had he any superfluities about him. He was all sincerity. For example, if he loved a person, he used to love him more in his heart. If he attributed anything to a man, he used to attribute it more in his heart. And if he was in harmony with a man, he was more in harmony in his heart. He was sincere, not insincere.   ABU0594

We beseech God to enable all the loved ones to attain unto the ornament of trustworthiness and faithfulness. In this year, due to certain events that occurred in the Land of the Prison, there were revealed from the heaven of God's Will verses concerning detachment, trustworthiness and the like, which, were they to be presented to the mountains, would cause them to humble themselves before God's command.   BH00508

After a day or so, Mirza Mussa came to me and told me confidentially that he has in his possession all his father's money in gold and nobody else knew anything about it. He wanted me to have all that money for my services. I asked him to show me where the money was. He took me to his room and produced a satchel full of gold. I locked the satchel, sealed it with wax and ordered him to call his sisters in.   ABU1289

As to the claims about which you wrote, it is most clear and evident that whosoever is able to discharge a debt and yet neglecteth to do so hath acted contrary to God's good-pleasure. Those who are in debt must strive with the utmost diligence to settle it. The binding command of God concerning trustworthiness, honesty, and rights is clear and manifest in all the Books, Tablets, Scriptures and Holy Writings.   BH00801

I am Trustworthiness and the revelation thereof, and the beauty thereof. I will recompense whosoever will cleave unto Me, and recognize My rank and station, and hold fast unto My hem. I am the most great ornament of the people of Baha, and the vesture of glory unto all who are in the kingdom of creation. I am the supreme instrument for the prosperity of the world, and the horizon of assurance unto all beings.   BH00560

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by the Mother Book, and by Thy Prophets and Messengers through whom Thy commandments and laws were spread abroad and the hearts of Thy servants were illumined with the light of Thy knowledge, and by Him through Whom the valley flowed and the table of recognition descended upon all who dwell in the realm of creation, to aid Thy servants to trustworthiness and righteousness.  BH11647

Soul and life and wealth and comfort are sacrificed for the dinar of trustworthiness and the glory of the Cause, O Beloved of my heart! This matter hath indeed penetrated and pervaded the hearts of the fair-minded ones. Praise be to God Who hath adorned thee with this luminous ornament and hath manifested through thee that which shall endure as long as the names of our Lord and the Lord of the Throne and earth endure.  BH11215

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to raise up through His Afnan and through thee and His loved ones the standards of trustworthiness and godliness, of truthfulness and sincerity amongst all men, and to strengthen you with the hosts of wisdom and utterance. And We beseech Him to make manifest through your existence the trustworthiness of the people of truth and the treachery of the faithless and the false ones.   BH00748

Trustworthiness among deeds is as sight in the human temple and as the sun amidst the stars of heaven. The comfort and tranquility of the servants and the glory and wealth of those in the land have depended upon trustworthiness. God willing, all must hold fast unto it and appear among the people with this supreme gift and mighty bounty. Blessed is he who hath attained thereunto, and alas and regret for the treacherous ones!   BH00871

The truth is that none of us did anything worthy of mention. The real effort was made by Mulla Rida Yazdi, who became well-known for his consummate courage, perseverance, and sincerity, and openly discussed matters of religion with the princes of Persia. As he had gained a reputation for his honesty and truthfulness, when he stated that the Baha'is do not involve themselves in political affairs, his words were accepted by his audience.  ABU3685

Trustworthiness is among the foremost ornaments. Blessed is he who is adorned with this sacred and luminous ornament. It is the source of glory and the mine of wealth and the repository of divine names. Blessed is he who holdeth fast unto it - such a one is reckoned with the people of this most exalted station before God. Rich is he who graspeth it, and poor is he who is deprived of it, though he possess all the treasures of the earth.   BH10456

Were a man in this day to adorn himself with the raiment of trustworthiness it were better for him in the sight of God than that he should journey on foot towards the holy court and be blessed with meeting the Adored One and standing before His Seat of Glory. Trustworthiness is as a stronghold to the city of humanity, and as eyes to the human temple. Whosoever remaineth deprived thereof shall, before His Throne, be reckoned as one bereft of vision.   BH02680

This Wronged One has ever called all to trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness and sincerity, yet proper action is not evident. One must at all times hold fast to the cord of trustworthiness and religiosity, and the state of these two is truly not known - whether they have been implemented or not. Knowledge thereof is with God, the Knower of the unseen [...] If truthfulness and trustworthiness are not observed in these minor matters, what will become of major affairs?   BH00805

We beseech God to assist them to perform deeds whereby the station of deeds will be exalted, and to utter words whereby the hearts of men will be attracted, and to show such trustworthiness as will cause the limbs of the treacherous among the people of error to tremble, and to manifest such chastity as will raise the banner of God's protection throughout all lands, and to shine with such light as will guide people to the court of nearness and holiness and glory and beauty.   BH00959

Such was the sterling faithfulness of Esfandeyar that whenever I think of him my eyes grow dim with tears. He was a King among men, a glorious star in the heaven of humanity. Although his face was black his heart was as white as the snow. He was peerless and had no equal. I cannot sufficiently praise him. I loved him. He was a glory and a jewel on the crown of the colored race. For his life was a noble record of proud achievement and the whole world may learn a lesson from it.   ABU2597

You must choose either to submit yourself unreservedly to My Cause or to repudiate it entirely. You have no other alternative. If you choose to reject My message, I will not let go your hand until you pledge your word to declare publicly your repudiation of the Truth which I have proclaimed. Thus shall He who speaks the Truth be made known, and he that speaks falsely shall be condemned to eternal misery and shame. Then shall the way of Truth be revealed and made manifest to all men.  BBU0002

Now that they tell lies, even if they should sometime speak the truth, no one will believe them. Write exactly as I say: Our forces were few and theirs many. Moreover eight thousand cavalry came to their aid, therefore they refused to surrender the city and fought, and they prevailed. If at that time I had concealed the true situation and not spoken truthfully, then even if such a victory were achieved and reported, they would not have believed it. Sheikh Salman submitted that salvation lies in truthfulness.  ABU0317

In these days certain deeds that have appeared in the great city have caused the greatest sorrow. A mighty blow hath been dealt to the temple of trustworthiness, and the face of justice hath suffered the severest strike. For some, the outer door was opened and manifest bounty descended like torrential rain, but when poverty was transformed into wealth, the fire of greed and passion blazed forth. They rent asunder the veil of modesty and committed that which caused the enemies to open their mouths in derision.  BH08291

Praise be to God, a flood has begun moving from the mountain of divine confirmations that will cast aside all these foams and straws. The true concise history of this Cause is that article which is published. That will ultimately endure while all tales and accounts are like foam. God says in the Quran: He sends down water from the sky, so valleys flow according to their measure, and the torrent carries a rising foam. Then He says: As for the foam, it vanishes as scum, while that which benefits mankind remains on earth.  AB01908

We will now mention unto thee Trustworthiness and the station thereof in the estimation of God, thy Lord, the Lord of the Mighty Throne. One day of days We repaired unto Our Green Island. Upon Our arrival, We beheld its streams flowing, and its trees luxuriant, and the sunlight playing in their midst. Turning Our face to the right, We beheld what the pen is powerless to describe; nor can it set forth that which the eye of the Lord of Mankind witnessed in that most sanctified, that most sublime, that blest, and most exalted Spot. Turning, then, to the left We gazed on one of the Beauties of the Most Sublime Paradise, standing on a pillar of light, and calling aloud saying: 'O inmates of earth and heaven! Behold ye My beauty, and My radiance, and My revelation, and My effulgence. By God, the True One! I am Trustworthiness and the revelation thereof, and the beauty thereof. I will recompense whosoever will cleave unto Me, and recognize My rank and station, and hold fast unto My hem. I am the most great ornament of the people of Baha, and the vesture of glory unto all who are in the kingdom of creation. I am the supreme instrument for the prosperity of the world, and the horizon of assurance unto all beings.' Thus have We sent down for thee that which will draw men nigh unto the Lord of creation.  BH00053

O My beloved! In these days the sorrow of the Lord has melted hearts and set souls ablaze, for nearly forty years in most Tablets all have been commanded to trustworthiness, faith, chastity, worship and the reformation of affairs. By the life of our Purpose and your Purpose! Such utterances have flowed from the Pen of the Lord regarding these matters as would turn rock to wax and set mountains trembling. Yet they have not affected the hearts and souls of some. Man is God's greatest sign, and trustworthiness, faith and rectitude befit him.  BH11862

O my God and the God of all things, the Educator of all names! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Manifest, the Hidden, and by Thy Beauty, the Shining, the Treasured, to adorn Thy loved ones with the vesture of trustworthiness among all creatures, and deprive them not of this most exalted station and this most holy, most mighty, most glorious attribute. For Thou hast made it a sun in the heaven of Thy decree and an ornament in the book of Thy laws, and through it is manifested the sanctification of Thy Essence from all surmises and imaginings  BH01151

O friends of God in His lands and His loved ones in His realms! We counsel you to trustworthiness and godliness. Blessed is the city that hath been illumined by their light. Through them the station of man is elevated and the door of tranquility is opened to all in creation. Blessed is he who hath held fast unto them and recognized their station, and woe unto him who hath denied their rank and deprived himself of their adorning. O people of God! Trustworthiness is as the sun. Wealth and security depend upon it. It is the pillar of the pavilion of justice and the fortress of equity.  BH00495

In these days there has occurred that which causes the greatest sorrow. That Afnan, upon him be My glory and loving-kindness, bears witness that this Wronged One has, in most Tablets, commanded the servants to trustworthiness, religiosity, chastity and fidelity. However, the heedless did not accept the counsel of the Wronged One. The unfair one in the great city tore the veil of honor and did that which caused the pillars of trustworthiness and religion to shake. From them has appeared oppression in place of justice, tyranny in place of equity, and the fire of unfaithfulness in place of fidelity.  BH00755

They must speak the words of truth, breathe the air of Truth, live in the realm of truth, dream the dreams of truth, be clothed with the robes of truth and soar in the atmosphere of truth. They must be the soldiers of truth, be married unto the truth, be anxious to learn the truth, see everything with the eyes of truth; hold fast to the truth; be the mirrors of truth; spread the majesty of the King of truth; propound the immortality of truth - for truth is the essence of life, truth is the image of the eternal, truth is the correct comprehension of all things and truth is the Saviour of mankind.   ABU1275

Anyone who manifests the meaning of this name - that is, becomes truthful - is a rising star, a brilliant light, and a penetrating sword. There is no attribute more beloved than this, and no path more acceptable than this. Many a word of truth has been the cause of salvation for a nation, and many a base person has been made precious and noble through speaking the truth. And how often has one false word completely dropped an honored and respected person from sight and deprived them from the threshold of the Divine Unity. Better to speak the truth even in denial of faith than to profess belief while speaking falsehood.   AB01717

The greatest of all things is trustworthiness and religiosity. These two have been and continue to be the cause of the trust and confidence of the servants. Verily We came upon a verdant isle whose rivers were flowing and whose trees were intertwined. I turned to the right and beheld a countenance from among the countenances of the most exalted Paradise, standing upon a pillar of light, crying out with the most elevated call: 'I am Trustworthiness and its beauty, and the adornment of lands and their light. Blessed is he who holdeth fast unto it and recognizeth its station. Through it wealth appeareth and blessings descend.'   BH01766

Had the land of the Prison been adorned with the ornament of trustworthiness, the Beloved of the world would not have been observed to be sorrowful. You must call the friends to trustworthiness and truthfulness, that they may attain unto these two greatest luminaries which have shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of God's commandments.  BH00041

In training children, it is essential that the parents never speak to them anything but the truth, and never try to cheat or appease the child through untrue words or promises. For instance, when the parents wish to go to the garden and prefer that the child remain at home, they should not try to cheat him by saying that they are not going to the garden but to the bath or to any other place not loved by him. No, if it is not advisable that they take the child with them, they should tell the child the truth that they are going to the garden but that, because of this or other justifiable reason, it is not allowable for him to accompany them.   ABU1326

We have counseled those who claim to love Us in cities and lands to that which would exalt the Cause of God, exalted be His glory, and likewise cause the elevation of human stations. Divine counsels shine like stars from the horizons of the heaven of His Tablets, yet some unjust ones have failed to observe the Word of God and the glory of His Cause. In the great city, the veil of trustworthiness and honor was rent asunder. The oppressor committed that which caused the eye of justice to weep. Beseech ye God that He deprive not His servants of the splendors of the light of trustworthiness and chastity. Trustworthiness hath ever been the cause of glory, wealth, and the exaltation and advancement of the servants.  BH11615

The heart of the Kaliph was moved and he remembered the petition of his sons. He mentioned to his Ministers that sometime ago they had appealed to him for pension but he had waved it aside but now after listening to the remarkable services rendered by their father he would like to remunerate them in some fitting way and offer them his apologies for his neglect. Then the historian related to the Kaliph the rest of their story and how they had come into the possession of a considerable amount of money left by their father with a merchant before his going to war. The Kaliph expressed great surprise and delight over the trustworthiness of the merchant and ordered his courtiers to bring him next day to the Court.   ABU0197

He is God - exalted be His station, the Most Great, the Most Glorious. Praise be to God Who hath illumined the horizon of the world with the Sun of His Most Great Name, and hath commanded all to be trustworthy and faithful, and to that whereby His Cause may be exalted amongst the peoples. Among men are those who have turned to the Supreme Horizon and acted according to that which was commanded by God, the Lord of Names; among them are those who have halted in perplexity; and among them are those who have turned away and committed that which hath caused the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the Cities of Names to lament, until matters reached such a pass that, by God, the sun of trustworthiness hath been darkened among creatures and the moon of faithfulness hath been eclipsed among men.   BH01111


Trustworthiness is among the foremost ornaments. Blessed is he who is adorned with this sacred and luminous ornament. It is the source of glory and the mine of wealth and the repository of divine names.   BH10456


The best capital and the most profitable business is honesty in all things. Do thou continue to be honest in thy dealings for one month. Thou wilt see in the end that thou art honored and respected by all thy customers, and not considering thy spiritual welfare, thy material prosperity will be secured.   ABU3329
