This is the home of Light, whosoever enters therein must become illumined.  ABU1719

my house is open to all. He who wishes may enter and he who wishes to go out may leave   ABU2602

In the beginning he must show him the beauty of friendship and hospitality in a practical way  AB04213

Blessed are you who, like your illustrious ancestor the blessed Abraham, are hospitable to guests   AB06713

They should receive them most warmly and strive without limit to ensure they are pleased and satisfied.  AB08632

"You have extended hospitality. Night and day you have been ready to serve and to diffuse the divine fragrances."  ABU1499

Blessed Baha'u'llah gave emphatic counsel regarding neighbors, that one should consider neighbors as kith and kin.   AB05843

As much as possible, show courtesy and respect to strangers and strive by every means to bring about their joy and happiness.  AB05741

Often in the middle of night when I was in bed, they would bring to me the word that such and such a person had called and I would get up and dress again to receive him.   ABU2904

How excellent is the host and how excellent are the guests! This year, praise be to God, you were enabled to provide food and feasting time after time and occasion after occasion.   BH02894

There he hath spread before Thy presence such of Thy gifts as he hath been able to provide, notwithstanding that the people had plundered all his possessions and the possessions of others among Thy loved ones.  BH00889

Although he was not well off yet he was open-handed and generous, the door of his home was open always and friends and strangers received a cheering welcome. His simple but hearty feasts were ever remembered.   ABU0136

Once when I lived in Baghdad I was invited to the home of a poor thorn-picker... Then his wife made a little cake out of some meal for me, and burnt it in cooking it. Still that was the best reception I ever attended.   ABU2942

O thou who art hospitable to the strangers in God's path! Blessed art thou, for thou hast become the host to the captives of the All-Merciful and hast arisen to serve the wayfarers and wanderers on the path of the Lord.  AB08897

If a believer enter a city, the believers of that city must receive him with the utmost cordiality. They must be happy that one of the believers of God has entered into that city. They must show him the greatest hospitality   ABU0670

You must not look at the quality of the thing served at the table, you must always consider whether your host loves you or not. If he loves you and the food served is seasoned with love then there is no better food than that.  ABU2310

During the course of the meal 'Abdu'l-Baha noticed that Bahiyyih was eating only sparingly of the delicious Persian rice, and He said: "Rice, you do not like it? Rice is good, eat it. Perhaps you will not like the next course."  ABU0934

Such a traveler and guest causes much trouble and you need to leave the house and run away. Every traveler and guest in any city associates with specific people at specific times, but you have to host the public from morning until evening.   ABU3123

Everyone who reached his guesthouse and came here and met him opened their tongue in praise, saying that that cultured soul has a sweet melody and an attractive manner with both friend and stranger, showing kindness to everyone and rendering service.   AB05684

The doors are open and the dwelling is the banquet-hall of the All-Loving Lord...the companions are in harmony, and the place is adorned. The pot is boiling and the samovar is whistling, and the host ... is present and waiting.  AB10104

As he was going to stay only a few days - not desiring to rent a room - he came and stayed with our friends in the small crowded room. Of course they did not mind him. They hailed him as a brother, expecting that he will also enter in the spirit of their inner joy.  ABU2027

Once upon a time Salman called on Abouzar. When the lunch time came around the host brought two loaves of bread and salt. There was nothing else in the house. Salman as though talking to himself said: 'I wish there was a little cheese!' Abouzar feeling ashamed, went out, sold his only goat, bought the cheese and brought it at the table. The guest helped himself generously and when he was quite satisfied he raised his hands toward heaven and prayed:- 'Blessed are those who are satisfied with very little, and are contented!' Abouzar feeling the superficiality of such a prayer told to his friend: 'If thou wert really a satisfied and contented fellow I would still have my goat in the house'. ABU2532

the friends of God must show them the utmost kindness because these souls are strangers, and strangers must be honored...Human beings deserve respect, especially strangers. The divine friends must become the comfort of every stranger except the accursed one, and be the cause of joy to every sorrowful one, the shelter of every fearful one, and the consoler of every lonely one.   AB06018

You host every arrival and accompany every departure with utmost respect. You constantly spread the feast of hospitality, arrange gatherings of love, prepare celebrations of joy for the friends, and set an abundant table. The samovars are always boiling and hearts are aflame with the fire of the love of God. Spiritual sustenance is present and delicious physical food is available.   AB01179

When I was in Baghdad, a thorn seller invited us. His dwelling was twenty miles from Baghdad. He had a hut made of reeds. He invited us there.... I had never eaten such a delicious food, for it had been cooked with love. At night she prepared another in the same way. It was warm dough and dates, but we ate it with relish. Its taste is still in my mind. How completely that man and wife were filled with love.  ABU1792

Often he had invited me to take a meal with him at his house. He was very happy to entertain us and we were delighted to visit him, for he had a great love.... Because he was a true believer and had a great love, that plain coarse food tasted so delicious that we all enjoyed it. He had great faith and our presence filled him with joy.  ABU1095

Among the Arabs it is customary that if someone drinks another's coffee and then betrays him, it is considered reprehensible. They say: "How could he drink his coffee and then betray him, oppose him, and act against him?"  ABU1365

