And now, concerning the House of Justice which God hath ordained as the source of all good and freed from all error, it must be elected by universal suffrage, that is, by the believers. Its members must be manifestations of the fear of God and daysprings of knowledge and understanding, must be steadfast in God's faith and the well-wishers of all mankind. By this House is meant the Universal House of Justice, that is, in all countries a secondary House of Justice must be instituted, and these secondary Houses of Justice must elect the members of the Universal one. Unto this body all things must be referred. It enacteth all ordinances and regulations that are not to be found in the explicit Holy Text. By this body all the difficult problems are to be resolved and the Guardian of the Cause of God is its sacred head and the distinguished member for life of that body. Should he not attend in person its deliberations, he must appoint one to represent him. Should any of the members commit a sin, injurious to the common weal, the Guardian of the Cause of God hath at his own discretion the right to expel him, whereupon the people must elect another one in his stead. This House of Justice enacteth the laws and the government enforceth them. The legislative body must reinforce the executive, the executive must aid and assist the legislative body so that through the close union and harmony of these two forces, the foundation of fairness and justice may become firm and strong, that all the regions of the world may become even as Paradise itself.  AB00001

The Supranational House of Justice not only has to watch over peace among the nations, but it should also try and bring about and uphold the brotherhood of all peoples, all races and religions through a unifying language (with a unified script).  ABU0375


Unto the Most Holy Book every one must turn and all that is not expressly recorded therein must be referred to the Universal House of Justice.  That which this body, whether unanimously or by a majority doth carry, that is verily the Truth and the Purpose of God Himself. Whoso doth deviate therefrom is verily of them that love discord, hath shown forth malice and turned away from the Lord of the Covenant. By this House is meant that Universal House of Justice which is to be elected from all countries, that is from those parts in the East and West where the loved ones are to be found, after the manner of the customary elections in Western countries such as those of England.  It is incumbent upon these members (of the Universal House of Justice) to gather in a certain place and deliberate upon all problems which have caused difference, questions that are obscure and matters that are not expressly recorded in the Book. Whatsoever they decide has the same effect as the Text itself. And inasmuch as this House of Justice hath power to enact laws that are not expressly recorded in the Book and bear upon daily transactions, so also it hath power to repeal the same. Thus for example, the House of Justice enacteth today a certain law and enforceth it, and a hundred years hence, circumstances having profoundly changed and the conditions having altered, another House of Justice will then have power, according to the exigencies of the time, to alter that law. This it can do because that law formeth no part of the Divine Explicit Text. The House of Justice is both the initiator and the abrogator of its own laws. AB00001


Unto this body all things must be referred. It enacteth all ordinances and regulations that are not to be found in the explicit Holy Text. By this body all the difficult problems are to be resolved and the Guardian of the Cause of God is its sacred head and the distinguished member for life of that body. Should he not attend in person its deliberations, he must appoint one to represent him. Should any of the members commit a sin, injurious to the common weal, the Guardian of the Cause of God hath at his own discretion the right to expel him, whereupon the people must elect another one in his stead.  AB00001


The sacred and youthful branch, the Guardian of the Cause of God, as well as the Universal House of Justice, to be universally elected and established, are both under the care and protection of the Abha Beauty, under the shelter and unerring guidance of the Exalted One (may my life be offered up for them both). Whatsoever they decide is of God. Whoso obeyeth him not, neither obeyeth them, hath not obeyed God; whoso rebelleth against him and against them hath rebelled against God; whoso opposeth him hath opposed God; whoso contendeth with them hath contended with God; whoso disputeth with him hath disputed with God; whoso denieth him hath denied God; whoso disbelieveth in him hath disbelieved in God; whoso deviateth, separateth himself and turneth aside from him hath in truth deviated, separated himself and turned aside from God.  AB00001


These council boards are not Houses of Justice. That is a universal affair to be organized in time by all. Now is not the time. The man who would build must first get material and then begin erection. But if he has not right material he cannot build.  ABU1104

The Spiritual Assembly is in truth solely an assembly for the promotion of teaching. This is its greatest task and duty, though it also carries out minor matters such as schools for poor and weak children. However, the House of Justice is sovereign and legislates on matters not found in the divine texts. This House of Justice will be elected by universal suffrage according to the system used for national parliamentary elections, after the Cause of God is exalted and proclaimed.  AB01909

The laws and ordinances that are not expressly defined in the Book must all be referred to the House of Justice and not to 'Abdu'l-Baha, inasmuch as He is the Expounder of such ordinances as have been specified in the Holy Writ and not the legislator of unspecified laws. Nevertheless, the divinely ordained Universal House of Justice, which will, after the proclamation of the Cause of God, be elected by the worldwide Baha'i community, that universal Body is empowered to enact the laws that have not been explicitly prescribed in the Holy Text. It is binding and incumbent upon every one to render obedience unto it. And whenever the House of Justice, whether unanimously or by majority vote, lays down laws that are not specified in the Book, whoso questions its authority has indeed opposed God in the exercise of His sovereignty, has disputed His proofs, challenged His signs and has repudiated His commandments.  AB01242


The wisdom in this is that time does not remain constant; change and transformation are among the essential characteristics of the contingent world and of time and place. Thus the House of Justice implements what each time requires. Let it not be thought that the House of Justice will decide according to its own concepts and opinions. God forbid! The Supreme House of Justice will make decisions and establish laws through the inspiration and confirmation of the Holy Spirit, for it is under the protection, unerring guidance and shelter of the Ancient Beauty. Whatever it decides is obligatory and must be obeyed by all, and there is no way for anyone to dissent.   AB00151


In this Cause, the Blessed Beauty has established a standard that prevents and removes differences. For this reason, the House of Justice, by explicit text, is under the protection of the Blessed Beauty. That is, the Universal House of Justice which all Baha'is elect - whatever differences may arise, the ruling of the Universal House of Justice, by divine explicit text, is the ruling. Whatever it decides is the truth. Thus, no individual can make claims or arguments or try to exclude something. The House of Justice considers his claim - if accepted, blessed is the acceptance, if rejected, blessed is the rejection.  ABU0194

Regarding your mention of the House of Justice, it is clear and evident to you that the upheavals of this earth, its tribulations and its afflictions have been revealed beforehand in the Tablets of God. Therefore, whenever a decree was revealed, this servant strove to have copies sent to all regions lest the upheaval and turmoil of this earth become a barrier between God's ordinances and His servants. For this reason, a copy of that Tablet was sent, and the intention was not for it to be implemented in these days, for it is known that the loved ones are few and the enemies many.   BH01134

The National Houses of Justice are entrusted with fostering public morality on the religious basis of the Baha'i Teachings. Theirs also is the duty to carefully cultivate the lower and higher educational systems. Public administration is to be organized, beginning with the Local Houses of Justice up to the National Houses of Justice. Supranational questions are under the jurisdiction of the International House of Justice. Through such a hierarchically graded local and national administration a dependable, unbribable class of administrators will also be trained.   ABU0770

His Holiness BAHA'O'LLAH-May my life be a sacrifice to his friends-hath expounded and fully explained everything in the manifested Book, hath not given any soul the chance to be confounded, hath designated the Expounder of the Book that he may fully explain and expose the manifest teachings of God; and hath devolved the ordinances which are not literally recorded in the Book, upon the Universal House of Justice which, whenever it is organized, will engage in the service of promulgating those ordinances which are not manifestly mentioned.   AB02710

Now there is no House of Justice, but spiritual assemblies have been formed in various regions that consult about matters like the education of children, care of orphans, assistance to the weak, and spreading the divine fragrances. This spiritual assembly is also elected by majority vote. As for renewal of elections and setting terms, that is referred to the Universal House of Justice which all Baha'is of the world will elect, because whatever is not explicitly stated in text, the Universal House of Justice will make a decision about it.  AB00696

The House of Justice must be obeyed in all things because it has been established by the Blessed Perfection... The House of Justice will be appointed by the people. It must be obeyed because it is the Law of God expressed through the people by their own will and voice... After the Departure of Baha'u'llah we are commanded to obey the House of Justice... The Law of God will be vested in nineteen men who will compose the House of Justice and render decisions.  ABU1142

Being asked as to the sex of its membership, 'Abdu'l-Baha answered: "The membership of the House of Justice shall be all men." Being asked if the members of the General House of Justice will be nine in number, He answered: "The membership is not limited to nine. Nay, nine is the minimum number and it will gradually be increased nine by nine. For instance, it will be raised to numbers which are multiples of the number nine, such as eighty-one which is equal to nine times nine, and so forth."  ABU1334

Each state, for instance New York, will have one House of Justice. The cities (of that state) will be under that House of Justice. The nations will choose directly the International House of Justice and everything will be in its hands. For instance, Syria will have a House of justice. The people will elect it. Then this House of Justice of Syria [as a state under the Turkish Empire] will elect the House of Justice of Constantinople. Then Constantinople, London, Paris, Washington and so on will elect the International House of Justice.   ABU0494

The "Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah" ordained, in the days of His corporeal existence (i.e. during His lifetime), that the Holy Book of Laws and Ordinances (Kitab-i-Aqdas) should not be translated into other languages. The time will come one day when the International House of Justice will decide when and into what western languages the "Holy Book" of the "Most Exalted Pen" (Baha'u'llah) may and should be translated.  ABU0200

The Universal House of Justice has only the legislative function; the executive power belongs to the administrative department of government. At first, National Houses of Justice will be established in every country, and they will elect in turn members to the Universal House of Justice. Again I repeat, The House of Justice, whether National or Universal, has only legislative power, and not executive power.   ABU2678

Regarding the Spiritual Assembly (board of consultation, working committee, etc.) this is not the house of Justice. It is a purely spiritual Assembly and belongs to spiritual matters, and that is: to teach the Cause of God and diffuse the Fragrances of God. If the believers arise in the accomplishment of this work, the existence of the Spiritual Assembly will not become absolutely necessary or obligatory.  AB01474

And regarding the House of Justice, whether universal or otherwise, the removal of some of its members shall be by decision of the House of Justice itself, not at the request of individuals from among the people, except upon proof of transgression, oppression, and sin. Moreover, in all Houses of Justice, a majority of votes is acceptable while a minority of votes is unacceptable and invalid.  AB10956

Therefore, your honor must arise with perfect strength and steadfastness and gather together the Afnans of the Divine Lote-Tree - that is, make them of one heart and mind - and become united and in agreement with the Hands of the Cause of God, so that the Universal House of Justice may be formed to the extent possible and when necessary the contents of the Will and Testament be implemented.   AB01197

However, that House of Justice mentioned in the Kitab-i-Aqdas is absolutely impossible to establish now - indeed it is forbidden and inconceivable. That will be when the Cause is proclaimed and the laws of God are promoted. So now is not the time for the House of Justice that must be formed through universal election, and its mention is not permitted and its conception impossible.   AB01900


Political affairs are referred to the House of Justice. Whatever they think wise according to the requirements of time and place ought to be carried out. The members of the House of Justice will be inspired. Whenever it is established it will be under the protection of the Blessed Beauty. Whatever the House of Justice decides is the will of the Blessed One.   ABU0685

Glory be to the Lord of the world; and thanks be to the Hands of His Cause; and praise be to the Trustees of His House of Justice, who, in their endeavours to raise aloft His Word and exalt His utterance, have renounced themselves and all created things, and are regardful of, and tenaciously adhering to, whatsoever will promote the Cause of God.  BH11804

Concerning the formation of the House of Justice, the friends must await favourable circumstances... That is why this servant has time and again urged the friends not to assemble more than nine persons in one place. Thus it is evident what a formidable task the emergence of the House of Justice out of the Spiritual Assemblies would prove to be.  AB07567


The House of Justice is so mighty an organization that no one shall have the right to resist or oppose it. By that is meant the Universal House of Justice. That is, when all the local Houses of Justice of the different countries will be represented in the organization of a General House of Justice, that House will rule over all.  ABU2906

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar must be free from cashier or treasurer's office. However, there is no objection to placing a box at a certain spot for contributions. The decision rests with the Universal House of Justice. The sum of money thus received as contributions must be expended according to the directions of the House of Justice.  AB02904

The community elects its members, who would appoint representatives for the election of the superior Spiritual Assembly, until it culminates in the election of the Supreme House of Justice, which wields paramount authority. From the Local Spiritual Assembly upwards, all must submit to the vote of the majority.   ABU1381

He has referred all matters to the House of Justice that everyone may strictly obey whatsoever that Body will prescribe. Even if the Baha'is were to split up into two groups, 'Abdu'l-Baha has warned, each forming a House of Justice of its own, one in opposition to the other, both would be false.  ABU2731

Some friends asked about the matter of singing and chanting in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar: 'Abdu'l-Baha said that the recitation of the Holy Writings and prayers, whether in verse or prose, should be performed by singing and chanting. "However," he added, "I do not interfere in such matters that have not been explicitly revealed in the Text. Whatsoever the Universal House of Justice may prescribe at any time, the same shall be the accepted criterion."  ABU3315


Certainly such unfaithful souls who would commit such an atrocious act will rarely be found. The House of Justice, after its formation, will legislate regarding this matter and will enforce severe punishment upon such persons and will consider such an atrocious act a great crime. This mentioned ruling is in regard to those who are learned and cultured people, not criminals without name or honor who are like wild animals. Such souls must now be shunned by the friends who must never allow them in their gatherings and meetings until the House of Justice is formed and severe punishment is legislated regarding them.  AB06325

Q. I see that in his tablet to Ex-Governor Sulzer the Master says that the Universal Arbitration Tribunal will consist of the best men and women of the different countries. Will women in the future sit in the Beit-ul-Adl also? Abdul Baha: Men and women are equal in this respect, with the condition that women should reach to the degree of men. As yet they have not reached this state. They will become members of the Beit-ul-Adl in the future. The time will come when women will reach the degree of men (as regards education). Then they will be equal. ABU1350

Q. When the Beit-ul-Adls are fully established will there be one supreme king for the whole world? Abdul Baha: There will be constitutional monarchy, but they will have no independent power. Baha'o'llah says that in each country there should be one head (king) but there will not be a supreme king for the whole world. The universal Beit-ul-Adl will be the supreme authority.  ABU1350

Q. The International Beit-ul-Adl will be a legislative body. Must it not have an executive to carry out its decisions and must that executive not have a head? Abdul Baha: In each country the executive of that country will carry out the decision of the International Beit-ul-Adl. It will be carried out as in the League of Nations. All the countries will carry it through. In the same way the decisions of the Beit-ul-Adl will be carried out in all the countries. ABU1350

Q. Am I right in thinking that the Houses of Justice will at first be instituted for the Bahais only, but when the Bahai Cause becomes widespread they will come to take the place of existing parliaments and legislative assemblies? Abdul Baha: It is the same Beit-ul-Adl. Beit-ul-Adl will be established. It is like parliament. It takes its place, but this is a parliament which has the utmost of authority and power. ABU1350

The trustees of the House of Justice are men who must be elected by the people according to the complete and organized system of election. They must then elect from among themselves someone to serve as the head of the House of Justice.  AB02837

The Universal House of Justice, if properly elected by the entire community, will be under divine protection and guidance. Its decisions, whether unanimous or by majority, will be guarded from error through conferred infallibility.  AB00227

After Him, there will be the House of Justice, and when that House of Justice is formed of the sanctified, perfect souls, and sagacious souls, that House of Justice will be the last resort. Whatever they decide will be correct.   ABU0703

The signature of that meeting should be the Spiritual Gathering (House of Spirituality) and the wisdom therein is that hereafter the government should not infer from the term "House of Justice" that a court is signified   AB03141

'Abdu'l-Baha is the interpreter of the Book and not the enactor of laws not revealed in the Book...For any ordinance that is not explicitly revealed in the Book must be referred to the House of Justice.'  AB10456

The men of God's House of Justice have been charged with the affairs of the people. They, in truth, are the Trustees of God among His servants and the daysprings of authority in His countries.  BH00053

The decision to dispose of the site of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in order to build another Mashriqu'l-Adhkar rests with the House of Justice. Whenever it is formed, it will make a decision.  AB09927

The laws of Baha'u'llah are the unchangeable, organic laws of the Universal House of Justice. They are the very foundation upon which the structure of additional legislation is built.   ABU0834

In this most great Dispensation, the House of Justice is the body unto which all must turn: whatsoever the House of Justice should ordain, the same is incumbent upon the people.  AB02834

Nothing causes me more unhappiness than disunity, and this can only be remedied by obedience to the command of the Universal House of justice. Even before the establishment of the House of Justice, the friends must be obedient to the existing Spiritual Assemblies even if they know of a certainty that their judgement is flawed. If this were not complied with, the mighty citadel of the Faith of God would not be safeguarded. All must obey the Universal House of justice. Obedience to it is obedience to the Cause. Opposition to it is opposition to the Blessed Beauty. Denial of it is denial of God, the True One. Renouncing any word of the House of Justice is like unto the renunciation of a word from the KitabiAqdas. Observe, how important this matter is! The Blessed Beauty has ordained the House of justice as the lawmaker. If the votes of the members are not unanimous and there are differences of views, then the vote of the majority is the vote of the Blessed Beauty.  Take this very moment. Should the Universal House of justice be operating, by the one True God, beside Whom there is no God, I would have been the first to obey its decree, even if it should be against me. It is true that that Body does not possess inherent infallibility, but it is under the shadow of the protection and shelter of the Blessed Beauty. Its command is the Blessed Command. Discuss this matter amongst yourselves, so that it may not be forgotten. Speak of it to one another; even, make a written note of it. ABU2070

You had inquired about the qualities of the trustees of the House of Justice. The trustees of the House of Justice are men who must be elected by the people according to the complete and organized system of election. They must then elect from among themselves someone to serve as the head of the House of Justice. There is no doubt that these souls must be believing, assured, steadfast, firm and adorned with perfections, so that their reputation among the general public may be like the fragrance of musk, and the people will elect them. At present, wisdom and prudence do not permit the implementation of election rules, as this would cause commotion and sedition. But when the time comes and circumstances permit, the rules and laws of election must certainly be implemented with complete freedom, so that the House of Justice may arise to render outstanding services under the protection and guardianship of the monarchy, and may sacrifice their lives in service to the royal throne with perfect sincerity and goodwill. There is no doubt that the majority of the people will elect pure and sanctified souls who are adorned with perfections. AB02837

The Local House of Justice represents a communal authority, the next-highest is the National House of Justice, and the highest must be a supranational (cosmopolitan) one.  ABU0375

In the future, however, everyone must turn to the divinely ordained House of Justice.   ABU3313

The formation of the House of Justice is most timely. I hope that ye may be confirmed therein.  AB07860

The Convention is something like the House of Justice. I do not interfere in these matters.   ABU1111

An executive board is necessary. It may consist of both men and women; but the House of Justice will be composed of men only.  ABU1047


In this great Cycle and wonderful Dispensation, the majority of these non-essential commands which refer to the body are to be administered by the House of Justice  AB10799

The House of Justice legislates on unspecified laws, and this servant is the interpreter of specified laws, not the legislator.  AB11349

According to the conclusive text, the House of Justice is under the protection of the Blessed Beauty.  ABU0753

After 'Abdu'l-Baha, whenever the Universal House of Justice is established, it will remove differences.   ABU0736

There shall not be any separation among the believers because Baha'u'llah has appointed the House of Justice to be the authority.  ABU3246

In these days the formation of the House of Justice is not possible, rather it will be formed after the exaltation of the Cause of God.  AB05229

The substance is, that prior to the completion of a thousand years, no individual may presume to breathe a word. All must consider themselves to be of the order of subjects, submissive and obedient to the commandments of God and the laws of the House of Justice. Should any deviate by so much as a needle's point from the decrees of the Universal House of Justice, or falter in his compliance therewith, then is he of the outcast and rejected.  AB01673

Now deduction is the right of the body of the House of Justice, and the deductions and conclusions of individual learned men have no authority, unless they are endorsed by the House of Justice. The difference is precisely this, that from the conclusions and endorsement of the House of Justice, whose members are elected by and known to the universal Baha'i community, no dissension will arise; whereas the conclusions of individual divines would definitely lead to differences, and result in schism, division, and dispersion.   AB00151




The House of Justice must be obeyed in all things... It must be obeyed because it is the Law of God expressed through the people... I myself will obey the House of Justice because it is founded upon the Commands of the Blessed Perfection... It is the center of true government and must be obeyed in all things.  ABU1142

The wisdom in this is that time does not remain constant; change and transformation are among the essential characteristics of the contingent world and of time and place. Thus the House of Justice implements what each time requires. Let it not be thought that the House of Justice will decide according to its own concepts and opinions. God forbid! The Supreme House of Justice will make decisions and establish laws through the inspiration and confirmation of the Holy Spirit, for it is under the protection, unerring guidance and shelter of the Ancient Beauty. Whatever it decides is obligatory and must be obeyed by all, and there is no way for anyone to dissent. Say: O people! Verily the Supreme House of Justice is under the wing of your Lord, the Compassionate, the Merciful - that is, under His protection, His guardianship, His shelter and His care, for He hath commanded the assured believers to obey that sanctified and divinely-ordained body.   AB00151

The House of Justice legislates on unspecified laws, and this servant is the interpreter of specified laws, not the legislator.  AB11349

'Abdu'l-Baha is the Expounder of the Word, not the law-giver. 'Abdu'l-Baha has explained the divine law - whoso wishes may accept it, and whoso wishes not need not accept it. In any case, it is incumbent upon us to explain God's law and interpret the meaning of the concise verses. As for ordinances not mentioned in the Book, these all revert to the House of Justice, not to 'Abdu'l-Baha, for He is the Interpreter of what is mentioned in the Book, not the Author of unrevealed laws.  AB01242

The divinely ordained Universal House of Justice, which will, after the proclamation of the Cause of God, be elected by the worldwide Baha'i community, that universal Body is empowered to enact the laws that have not been explicitly prescribed in the Holy Text. It is binding and incumbent upon every one to render obedience unto it. And whenever the House of Justice, whether unanimously or by majority vote, lays down laws that are not specified in the Book, whoso questions its authority has indeed opposed God in the exercise of His sovereignty, has disputed His proofs, challenged His signs and has repudiated His commandments.  AB01242


These council boards are not Houses of Justice. That is a universal affair to be organized in time by all. Now is not the time. The man who would build must first get material and then begin erection. But if he has not right material he cannot build. This is the time for teaching; you must get material. Therefore the board has for its main duty teaching. May it be confirmed to teach many and thus prepare for the House of Justice! It is a spiritual gathering and should remain such until political affairs are adjusted. Houses of Justice must attain to the potency to be such. Abdul-Baha hopes that in time the Board may attain to a condition like that.... Question: Should we organize into a legal body now, with a constitution? Answer: The time for organization is not yet. At present the work must be entirely spiritual.  ABU1104



Endowments dedicated to charitable purposes, prior to the formation of the House of Justice, are referred to the Spiritual Assembly which is pure and sanctified from any trace of self, otherwise they are not valid.  AB03861

Dr. Esslemont asked several questions concerning the House of Justice. The substance of the Master's reply was:  That these Houses of Justice will not be in every village but only in the large cities, not the small ones. Each large city will have one and only that one. The surrounding villages will be under the control of this House of Justice. The national House of Justice of a country will be considered as a branch of the world House of Justice. For example, one branch in England, one in France, and so on. After a year they will all gather and elect an International House of Justice. This International House of Justice is like the present League of Nations, with one difference. The League is not representative of all the nations of the world, while the House of Justice will be. There are three stages-the local, national, and international. In the city the mass of the people elect a delegation or a committee and this committee appoints or elects the members of the local House of Justice. The members of the local Houses of Justice convene at some given place and elect directly the members of the national House of Justice, either from their own members or from others. This national House of Justice directs the affairs of the country. Then the members of the various national Houses of Justice convene and elect in the same manner the members of the International House of Justice. A uniform rule applies to all of them.  The tie that binds the House of Justice to the store-houses in the villages is that if there is any balance left in the store-house, after all its expenses are paid, it goes to the House of Justice. The House of Justice regulates the taxes. For example, in Haifa the tax rate is one-tenth. This is too much. Somewhere else it may be two-tenths, but that is not sufficient because the soil in that place may be very fertile. Those villages around the big cities are represented by the House of Justice of that city. ABU0392
 
Baha'u'llah hath affirmed that, if the Baha'is engage in contention, even if the conflict concern Baha'u'llah Himself, both parties will be in the wrong. He hath commanded all to turn to the House of Justice, and prior to its establishment, He hath referred all matters to the Centre of the Covenant and hath commanded all to obey Him. ABU2976

For such a House of Justice shall be under the protection and infallibility of the Blessed Perfection and favored by His confirmation.  ABU2906

These affairs must be referred to the Convention. The Convention is something like the House of Justice. I do not interfere in these matters.  ABU1111

The divine civilization that will result from the House of Justice  AB00754

if dispute and conflict arise, its judgment is referred to the House of Justice.  AB01570

In the future, however, everyone must turn to the divinely ordained House of Justice.   ABU3313

If the time were opportune and House of Justice were formed, that Body would surely safeguard the Cause of God.   ABU2431

If they lack the means, this duty falls upon the House of Justice whenever it shall be established in the future to carry this out.  AB03229

The details for the organization of the House of Justice are amply provided for and the place for its holding will be decided upon by the members themselves.  AB03720

As for the House of Justice, by explicit texts in God's law it is confined to men - a wisdom from God which shall become as manifest as the sun at high noon.  AB02310

By His appointing the Expounder of the Holy Word, by setting up the Institution of the House of Justice, which is the legislative body elected by the people   ABU2563

In the future the House of Justice will be the solver of all difficulties. Whatever is not explicitly laid down in the text is referred to the House of Justice.  AB03371



As for the matter of election, it pertains to the general vote, that they may elect with complete freedom. We have no involvement in it except to pray for confirmation and success  AB04428

Who is to decide upon the plans of the Mashrak-ul-Askar? That rests with the delegates to the Convention- not all those present at the Convention, the delegates only - not strangers.   ABU2941

Regarding the House of Justice, in the Kitab-i-Aqdas the address is to men, saying "O men of the House of Justice." However, in election and voting the rights of women are established.  AB00799

Should the father fail in his duty he must be compelled to discharge his responsibility, and should he be unable to comply, let the House of Justice take over the education of the children  AB03494

Surely you and the divine friends will make the utmost effort in this important matter... God willing, may the divine friends and the Spiritual Assembly make sacrifices in this important matter   AB02649

I have neither promoted nor forbidden this, for this matter pertains to the Universal House of Justice. Whenever it is established, whatever the House of Justice decides will be put into practice.  AB06133

None of those who enter the House of Justice should reject she who is manifest in her knowledge, for she hath known the true import of the Cause through God's grace, and she is today an honor for this company.   BB00220

this servant's duty is to explain the clear sacred texts, but everything beyond what is explicitly in the Book is referred to the House of Justice - whenever it is established they will make a decision about this.  AB01806

According to the fundamental laws which We have formerly revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas and other Tablets, all affairs are committed to the care of just kings and presidents and of the Trustees of the House of Justice.  BH00238


In the cause of Baha'o'llah there is the Beit-ul-Ad'l (House of Justice). Political affairs are not explicitly settled in the tablets. They are referred to the House of Justice. Whatever the House of Justice decides is obligatory.   ABU0685

Dr. E.: "It is misleading, is it not, to say that the Bahai cause cannot be organized?" Abdul Baha: "How is it possible that there should be no organization? Even in a household, if there is not organization there will be hopeless confusion. Then what about the world? What is meant is that the organization is not rigid. In ancient times it was rigid. In the Torah all the political affairs were rigidly fixed, but in this cause, they are not. In this cause there is political freedom, i.e., in each time the House of Justice is free to decide in accordance with what it deems expedient.  ABU0685


Furthermore, Baha'o'llah has commanded the organization of an universal house of justice, which shall have power to legislate regarding all questions not elucidated in the books, and the decisions of this body are to be accepted as the law.  ABU0047

If it is not so one thousand sects of religion would arise. Each one would rise up to cause disturbance and would say, 'My conscience says it is not good.' Another would say, 'My conscience says this is good,' and they cannot agree on anything.   ABU0267

If today in various cities institutions specifically known by the name of House of Justice and the like become known, there is danger for all, as the people are immature. Leave them until their backs are strengthened and they attain their maturity.  BH04495

The Covenant-breakers produced a tablet, which they attributed it to the Ancient Beauty. Therein it was clearly stated that the numerical value of Kull u Shay (all things = 36 indicated the time limit when the Cause of Baha'u'llah would, God forbid, be disbanded or dispersed. Somehow the friends managed to obtain a copy of this tablet and sent it to the presence of 'Abdu'l-Baha, Who said there were numerous tablets corrupted like this one and that it was unimportant. "The House of Justice will put things right," He said. "It will gather together all the Sacred Writings, scrutinized them carefully, and pronounce its conclusive findings, and should any make contradictory remarks, he would be severely dealt with." Then He gave an explanation about how such a tablet never existed and was not from the Ancient Beauty and was not in His blessed idiom.  ABU2817

Likewise, the Universal House of Justice is the remover of all differences. Whatever the House of Justice says is accepted, and whoever opposes it is rejected. But the Universal House of Justice which is the legislator has not yet been established.   AB02215

But if the Lord God should let the blessed line of our descendants be broken one day, the International House of Justice, together with the local one, will appoint a suitable guardian, caretaker, custodian and steward for the three places of pilgrimage.   ABU0111

The House of Justice has not yet been formed: Its formation is conditioned upon universal suffrage. By this is meant the Universal House of Justice; and in the election of the members of the Universal House of Justice women have the same voice and vote as men.  AB09218

Things not definitely stated in the Book are referred to the House of Justice. Whatever the House of Justice decides, that is obligatory. Now it is not possible for all the world to come together. The Convention is similar to the House of Justice to a certain extent. Its decision and laws must be carried out.  ABU3081

The House of Justice has legislative authority and legislates what is not explicitly revealed, and it is not executive. Elections take place in different provinces and the House of Justice is formed, and they will determine the center according to their own judgment.   ABU3290

The House of Justice will be appointed by the people... The House of Justice has been established by the Manifestation of God. It is the center of true government... The kings and rulers of the world will find their true authority under the rulings of the House of Justice.  ABU1142

You wrote about the Spiritual Assembly of Washington that it has progressed well in these few months. This news brought joy, and the relocation of the Spiritual Assembly will surely increase attraction, as more will gather and the spaciousness of the place will bring spiritual delight.  AB11164


If there be a case of difference between husband and wife, where it is entirely impossible to recreate their love, where it is not possible for them to live any longer with one another, then both should go to the House of Justice and together, in perfect agreement, lay their case before it.   ABU2260

He has referred all matters to the House of Justice that everyone may strictly obey whatsoever that Body will prescribe. Even if the Baha'is were to split up into two groups, 'Abdu'l-Baha has warned, each forming a House of Justice of its own, one in opposition to the other, both would be false.  ABU2731

He has ordained and established the House of Justice, which is endowed with a political as well as a religious function, the consummate union and blending of church and state. This institution is under the protecting power of Baha'u'llah Himself. A universal, or international, House of Justice shall also be organized.   ABU0130

The House of Justice is free from error or blunder. In other words, it is under the care and protection of the Abha Beauty Who has commanded all to be submissive to it, and has affirmed that it receives divine inspiration and is under the protection of the Wise, the Potent, the Powerful God.... Who opposes this body has indeed opposed God.   ABU1381

In the country where the rising sun is first fully recognized (where the Baha'i Faith is introduced) every town, every community should raise a Local House of Justice, which combines the administrative function (administration) with the profane (wordly) as well as ecclesiastical (religious) legislation, and effects and supervises its carrying-out.  ABU0375

There shall not be any separation among the believers because Baha'u'llah has appointed the House of Justice to be the authority. In the future many false traditions and untrue statements will appear, but the men of the House of Justice will with great power stop the mouths of the liars. All difficult problems must be referred to the House of Justice.  ABU3246


However, there is no objection to placing a box at a certain spot for contributions. The sum of money thus received as contributions must be expended according to the directions of the House of Justice.  When the Universal House of Justice is established, it will reconsider all these matters, be they essential or secondary, and will lay down conclusive rulings according to the needs of the time.  AB02904

All the civic affairs and the legislation of material laws for the increase in needs of the enlightened humanity belong to the House of Justice. This, the House of Justice, will be not only a body for the legislation of laws according to the spirit and requirement of the time, but a broad arbitration for the settlement of all disputes arising between peoples. When the Universal House of Justice is organized the members will do their upmost for the realization of greater cordiality and comity amongst the nations.   ABU2677

The term of service for the trustees of the House of Justice must be determined by the House of Justice in the future, since there is no divine text on this matter, and whatever is not explicitly revealed must be decided by the House of Justice. If a member of the House of Justice is absent, passes away, or is removed, the full membership of the House must be completed through a new election.  AB11484

When the House of Justice is established, homes for the incapacitated will be founded, thus no one will need to beg. As the complement to the blessed verse indicates: "It is prescribed for all to earn a living" then He says "And for him who is unable, the deputies and the wealthy should designate what suffices him." The meaning of deputies is the deputies of the House, who are the members of the House of Justice.   AB00632


Understanding among peoples should be ensured through a Supranational House of Justice (Baytu'l-'Adl), which will at the same time and above all serve to guard and preserve universal peace. The just administration on a religious basis in the divinely-inspired bodies of the Local, National (and the Supranational) Houses of Justice will also ensure the loyalty of the citizens of the state, so that no more revolutions, upheavals of the state and civil wars can come about.   ABU0770

All the civic affairs and the legislation of material laws for the increasing needs of the enlightened humanity belong to the House of Justice. Thus the House of Justice will not be only a body for the legislation of laws according to the spirit and requirement of the time but a board of arbitration for the settlement of all the disputes arising between peoples. When the Universal House of Justice is organized the members will do their utmost for the realization of greater cordiality and comity amongst the nations.   ABU0834

Each state, for instance New York, will have one House of Justice. The cities (of that state) will be under that House of Justice. The nations will choose directly the International House of Justice and everything will be in its hands. For instance, Syria will have a House of justice. The people will elect it. Then this House of Justice of Syria [as a state under the Turkish Empire] will elect the House of Justice of Constantinople. Then Constantinople, London, Paris, Washington and so on will elect the International House of Justice.   ABU0494

It hath been prescribed that in every city a House of Justice be established wherein shall gather together people to the number of Baha, and should it exceed this number it mattereth not. They should consider themselves as entering the Presence of God, the Most High, and as beholding Him Who is invisible. It behooveth them to be the trusted ones of the Merciful among men and the deputies of God for such as dwell on earth. They should consult together in such wise as to win the good pleasure of God and should choose that which is approved.  BH01525

the House of Justice, and when any of the other categories are not present, such as father, mother, brother, sister, or teacher, whether their shares also revert to the House of Justice or are otherwise disposed - this matter hath been revealed in the Book of God. He saith, exalted be He: "Should one die and leave no offspring, their share shall revert to the House of Justice" and so forth. And: "Should one leave offspring but none of the other categories specified in the Book, two-thirds of what they leave shall revert to the offspring and the remaining third to the House of Justice."   BH00984

The men of God's House of Justice have been charged with the affairs of the people. They, in truth, are the Trustees of God among His servants and the daysprings of authority in His countries. O people of God! That which traineth the world is Justice, for it is upheld by two pillars, reward and punishment. These two pillars are the sources of life to the world. Inasmuch as for each day there is a new problem and for every problem an expedient solution, such affairs should be referred to the Ministers of the House of Justice that they may act according to the needs and requirements of the time.   BH00568

Should there be differences of opinion, the Supreme House of Justice would immediately resolve the problems. Whatever will be its decision, by majority vote, shall be the real truth, inasmuch as that House is under the protection, unerring guidance, and care of the one true Lord. He shall guard it from error and will protect it under the wing of His sanctity and infallibility. He who opposes it is cast out and will eventually be of the defeated.  The Supreme House of Justice should be elected according to the system followed in the election of the parliaments of Europe.  And when the countries would be guided, the Houses of Justice of the various countries would elect the Supreme House of Justice. At whatever time all the beloved of God in each country appoint their delegates, and these in turn elect their representatives, and these representatives elect a body, that body shall be regarded as the Supreme House of Justice. The establishment of that House is not dependent upon the conversion of all the nations of the world.  For example, if conditions were favourable and no disturbances would be caused, the friends in Persia would elect their representatives, and likewise the friends in America, in India, and other areas would also elect their representatives, and these would elect a House of Justice.  That House of Justice would be the Supreme House of Justice.  That is all.  AB00203

The Universal House of Justice is under the shadow of the Most Great Infallibility and the Blessed Beauty preserves it from error. For instance, Baha'u'llah has said that the House of Justice is the law-giver and must legislate on matters that have not been explicitly recorded in the Book. Now, were the House of Justice to err, that error would revert to Baha'u'llah Himself and would subvert the Religion and Law of God. The Universal House of Justice is divinely ordained and operates under divine infallibility. Their decisions are perfectly infallible and under the shadow of divine infallibility; not subject to that which pertains to their own persons.  ABU3666

The Lord hath ordained that in every city a House of Justice be established wherein shall gather counsellors to the number of Baha, and should it exceed this number it doth not matter. They should consider themselves as entering the Court of the presence of God, the Exalted, the Most High, and as beholding Him Who is the Unseen. It behoveth them to be the trusted ones of the Merciful among men and to regard themselves as the guardians appointed of God for all that dwell on earth. It is incumbent upon them to take counsel together and to have regard for the interests of the servants of God, for His sake, even as they regard their own interests, and to choose that which is meet and seemly.  BH00001

The Universal House of Justice has only the legislative function; the executive power belongs to the administrative department of government. The House of Justice cannot fulfil two functions at the same time--legislative and executive.   At first, National Houses of Justice will be established in every country, and they will elect in turn members to the Universal House of Justice. Again I repeat, The House of Justice, whether National or Universal, has only legislative power, and not executive power. For example, in Europe and America the Parliament or Congress enact laws, while the Government executes these laws. The House of Justice cannot fulfil two functions at the same time--legislative and executive.   ABU2678

The community should buy large tracts of land from the Zakat (capital tax) and from the voluntary endowments (but not from legal fines), maybe also from estates without heirs. The most beautiful places one should give to the House of Worship (Mashriqu'l-Adhkar); the House of Justice (Council Hall) may be built adjoining it or else opposite it. In a circle around these two central buildings there should be built an orphanage with two sections for boys and girls, a university, a hospital, a dispensary and a guest house. The maternity hospital, the insane asylum, an asylum for irredeemable cases and incurable cases, an old-age home, a home for the crippled and the blind, should be established in another place, far from there. All these and other institutions are in the first instance placed under the House of Justice.  ABU0200

"To be brief, God will raise pure, righteous and sincere beings for the House of Justice who will be under His protection and the decrees of the House of Justice shall be effective in all matters not especially 'provided for in the Book.'"  Being asked as to the sex of its membership, 'Abdu'l-Baha answered: "The membership of the House of Justice shall be all men." Being asked if the members of the General House of Justice will be nine in number, He answered: "The membership is not limited to nine. Nay, nine is the minimum number and it will gradually be increased nine by nine. For instance, it will be raised to numbers which are multiples of the number nine, such as eighty-one which is equal to nine times nine, and so forth."  ABU1334



The House of Justice is so mighty an organization that no one shall have the right to resist or oppose it. By that is meant the Universal House of Justice. That is, when all the local Houses of Justice of the different countries will be represented in the organization of a General House of Justice, that House will rule over all. For such a House of Justice shall be under the protection and infallibility of the Blessed Perfection and favored by His confirmation.  ABU2906

The limit of proximity to the Kaaba is mentioned in the writings of the Primal Point, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, and whatever is not mentioned in the Divine Tablets refers to the Universal House of Justice which will be established after the proclamation of the Cause of God. The House of Justice legislates on unspecified laws, and this servant is the interpreter of specified laws, not the legislator.  AB11349

Mr. Randall then asked if America might for the present adopt the Persian dates. 'Abdu'l-Baha replied: "Yes, if they want to. They must want to and take the initiative. It is not the request of 'Abdu'l-Baha. These matters are left to the House of justice which will be established before this century is out."  ABU3407

Regarding the House of Justice the Master said: "It is a great mistake to suppose that there will be a House of Justice established in each city. The fact is there will be but one House of Justice for the whole world, to be composed of individuals from each country. In each city there will be a Spiritual Meeting, or Board of Council, composed of nine or more, whose function will be to attend to the business of the Assembly. This Spiritual Meeting will have no power to control or make laws. The members of the council are merely the servants of the Assembly or community."  Continuing in this connection the Master said: "A house is never furnished before the structure is erected. So with the Cause of Baha'o'llah. It must be first built up; afterwards it will be furnished with justice and then it will be called the House of Justice. When this time comes and the universal House of Justice is once established, its commands will be obeyed by all."  "Many minor laws not mentioned in the Kitab-el-Akdas will be made by them, but no laws contained in the Kitab-el-Akdas can be abrogated by them. We have to regard the Cause of Baha'o'llah as a house in the process of building and that we are the builders; in other words, we are simply the servants building the house. The house is not ours. We simply contribute the labor." When asked who would elect the individual members of the House of Justice, the Master said: "They would be elected similar to the plan adopted in electing members of Congress in the United States, each country electing a representative, the same as each state does in the union."  ABU1572




