
Thou hast asked about places of worship and the underlying reason therefor. The wisdom in raising up such buildings is that at a given hour, the people should know it is time to meet, and all should gather together, and, harmoniously attuned one to another, engage in prayer; with the result that out of this coming together, unity and affection shall grow and flourish in the human heart.  AB11183

The esteemed delegates requested that 'Abdu'l-Baha accept the presidency of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar Association and that honorary members for the Western Mashriqu'l-Adhkar Association be elected from among the friends of the East. God willing, honorary members for that respected association shall be appointed from the East. But 'Abdu'l-Baha's wish is to be the servant of that gathering, not its president, and to render service rather than hold membership. This is the cause of my joy and I hope to succeed in achieving this aim and desire.   AB01935

Since this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Chicago hath been instituted, thousands of Mashriqu'l-Adhkar's will be instituted in the East and in the West, but this will be the mother and they the children. This hath the same significance as the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar being the mother.  AB00184

This Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is the first divine establishment of this new age; therefore, it will gain most great importance in the future centuries and will become a place of pilgrimage for the peoples and nations of the world  AB01831

Therefore, this blessed deed of the East supporting the West is praiseworthy and commendable and is an attribute of this Day of Revelation. Thus far, such deeds have assuredly not occurred that the East offer contributions to the West; that is, for Persia to assist in the building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in America.  AB11827

When the Mashrak-el-Azkar, with its accessories, is established in the world, aside from its religious or spiritual influence, it will have a tremendous effect upon civilization. Aside from the religionists who will feel its influence, materialists will not be exempt therefrom. Moreover it contains divine wisdoms, spiritual effects upon the intellects and thoughts. Subsequent to its erection these will become evident.  ABU1041

There will be two universities, but the school as an accessory of the Mashrak-el-Azcar will not be as large as the university.   ABU3250

The plan for the Husayniyyih was considered. For the elevation of stations and attainment of spirit and fragrance of your illustrious grandfather who was steadfast in the Covenant, it was accepted to become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB01239

As to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, it is of great import. The purpose is this: a location should be designated, even if it be a small place beneath layers of earth and stone, and it should, out of prudence, be kept hidden and concealed, lest it foment hostility among the people of sedition. At least once per week, it should become the gathering-place of the chosen friends who have discovered the secrets and become the intimates of mysteries. It may assume any form, for even if it be an underground pit, that pit shall become even as a sheltering paradise, an exalted meadow, and a garden of delight. It shall become a place of the gladdening of the spirit, and the centre of the attraction of the hearts to the Kingdom.  AB12083 

All matters concerning the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar are referred to the annual Convention in every respect. Whatever the Convention decides by majority vote is acceptable and shall be carried out.   AB06031

With the utmost love and sincerity, they elected a committee, and that committee attended to the establishment, planning, ordering, and form of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB11874

the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in those regions is today among the greatest institutions of the Lord God  AB01834


Whatever is public is divine, and whatever is private is devised of man. Therefore, whatever is established by the friends of God must be public, whether a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, or other institutions. Whatever is public is divine, and whatever is private is manmade. The efforts of the friends must benefit all people. Recently, [the Baha'is] have founded a school and plan to build a hospital associated with the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar [of 'Ishqabad]. If the believers undertake philanthropic efforts, it must be public and not exclusionary against anyone. For instance, if they establish a school, none must be denied entrance.  ABU2252

Mr. And Mrs. Holbach had several questions to ask about the Mashrak-el-Azkar and its accessories. In answer Abdul-Baha said: "When these institutions, college, hospital, hospice and establishments for the incurables, university for the study of higher sciences and giving post-graduate courses, and other philanthropic buildings, are built, its doors will be open to all the nations and all religions. There will be drawn absolutely no line of demarcation. Its charities will be dispensed irrespective of colour and race. Its gates will be flung wide to mankind; prejudices toward none, love for all. The central building will be devoted to the purposes of prayer and worship. Thus for the first time religion will become harmonized with science and science will be the hand-maid of religion, both showering their material and spiritual gifts on all humanity. In this way the people will be lifted out of the quagmires of slothfulness and bigotry."  ABU2301

Although in the future thousands of Mashriqu'l-Adhkars will be erected, this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, because it is the first to be built in America, is very important, and its impact and effect shall be boundless. Soon some results will become evident and manifest.   AB01935

It shall come to pass. Schools will be established on this mountain. Mashriqu'l-Adhkars will be established. Orphanages will be established. Homes for the aged will be established. Hostels for travelers will be established. Many institutions will be established.  ABU2151

The foundation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is laid.   ABU1599

Recently, [the Baha'is] have founded a school and plan to build a hospital associated with the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar [of 'Ishqabad]. If the believers undertake philanthropic efforts, it must be public and not exclusionary against anyone. For instance, if they establish a school, none must be denied entrance.   ABU2252


There are the accessories of the temple. There will be two universities, but the school as an accessory of the Mashrak-el-Azcar will not be as large as the university. They are the necessary accompaniments of the Mashrak-el-Azcar.   ABU3250

And when these two important matters are accomplished, then if they are able and can manage it, they should arrange a pilgrim house that can also serve as a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. I will write a letter to the friends about this matter.  AB11764


"and the foundation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was raised"  AB01513

"On another part of it there will be a Mashreq'ul Azkar."  ABU1954

Subsequently, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was established there.  ABU2989

"discussions will be held regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar"   AB07015

through your efforts the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will be established  AB12679

You wrote about the convention of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar delegates  AB09213

The construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will begin next spring.   AB01530

Mention of financial contribution for the American Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   AB01557

The matter of contributing to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is very important  AB11370

I myself would have contributed in thy name for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   AB02552

established a reading room near the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar named Mahmudiyyih  AB11894

the means may be prepared for the establishment of the Mashrak-el-Azkar  AB11563

Reference to laying cornerstone of and service to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar  AB10281

it was an assembly formed for the establishment of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   AB04774

In the organization of the Mashrak-el-Azcar, thou art indeed well striving.   AB03793

The children of Khurasan are contributing to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Chicago.  AB02542

If any Huquq becomes available, use it for establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB08942

Praise be to God that you attended the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar Convention in New York  AB05656

"I perused the article that thou hast written concerning the Maskrekel-Azkar."   AB01774

Blessed art thou for having opened thy doors for a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar gathering!   AB05815

Since you are a servant of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, you are a king and sovereign.   AB02828


The construction of Mashrak-el-Azkar in those regions is of the utmost importance  AB11536

The contribution for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will, God willing, be sent to America.   AB02436

All matters concerning the Mashrat-el-Askar should be referred to the Convention.   ABU1111

Several plans and designs of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar have been received from America.  AB11096

And if any Huquq becomes available, spend it on establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB08942


assisted the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in lands from which cries rose to the Kingdom of Lights   AB02003

are showing forth generosity in contributing toward the building of the Mashrekol Azkar   AB07539

The plan for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was observed. The importance lies in the foundation.   AB05553

Dr. C. heard in America that a crypt was to be built in the Mashrak-ol-Azkar in Chicago.   ABU3489

thou art occupied with service to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and detached from all else save God   AB03388

you had written the names of those who had succeeded in assisting the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Marv  AB01338

But be assured, the most important thing at this time is the building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  ABU3252

He rendered outstanding service and was instrumental in establishing the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar  AB03749

Your presence on the consultative committee of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has surely been beneficial.  AB04287

Through Jinab-i-Shaykh and Khan, use the fifty tumans that were vowed for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB09189

If thou canst help the up-building of the Mashrak-el-Azcar in Chicago, it will be most acceptable.  AB07820

Contributions for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar have been made from everywhere in Iran, even from villages   AB02073

The melody, which thou didst compose for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has reached the ears of 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB09415

Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Ishqabad, whatever you deem advisable, instruct them to carry out  AB01548

if all the heirs unanimously agree to send it for the expenses of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in 'Ishqabad  AB12274

All matters concerning the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar are referred to the annual Convention in every respect.   AB06031

at dawn in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar there are supplications and devotions to the mighty, compelling Lord   AB11695

desired that thy home become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, a center of mysteries, and a dawning-place of lights   AB12106

As for the piece of land which you have purchased for building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, leave it as it is   AB03539

The text discusses singing and chanting in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar through a question posed to 'Abdu'l-Baha.   ABU3315

You wrote about the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. Surely strive that it be established and completed with utmost wisdom.   AB01804

In any case, my hope is that in this Convention the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has found new importance.   AB00411

In every town, the melodies from the Mashrak-el-Azkar on this Mount Carmel, will be most pleasing to the ears.  ABU1526

Regarding the sale of the house and its use for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar - truly you have shown outstanding resolve  AB05551

thy poem shall be chanted with melody and best voices in the Center of Worship (or Mashrak-el-Azcar) forevermore   AB07021

As before, associate with Mrs. True and assist with the affairs of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar to the extent possible.   AB03745

These people have built their mosque in Chicago and erected their Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in the mid-heart of America!   ABU0946

Think about establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. First the planting of trees is necessary, then pruning and arranging.  AB11656

The friends in 'Ishqabad have truly not fallen short in any matter, especially in establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.   AB03628

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar which has been established in Faran will surely cause the fire of the love of God to surge forth.  AB11404

Then he entered Merv and called all to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar that they might worship Thee in mornings and dawns   AB00717

Establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar with the utmost wisdom and discretion, and if wisdom does not permit, give it another name.   AB06760

occupied His Holiness the Afnan of the Blessed Tree, Jinab-i-Haji Mirza Muhammad-Taqi, with constructing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar  AB02385

He encouraged all to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and drew up its design in the presence of 'Abdu'l-Baha, which was accepted.  AB00857

In the first place, these meetings are temporary, not permanent, as an organization. The Mashrak-el-Azkar is the permanent form.   ABU1714

The eloquent and wondrous verses which flowed like running water from your gifted pen regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar were perused.  AB10014

You should think about promoting the cause of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and preparing means for the diffusion of the divine fragrances.   AB02215

they labored greatly and sacrificed their lives until this mighty edifice - the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar - was established in 'Ishqabad  AB11812

The chamber that thou hast made into a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and a gathering place for the mention of the divine Beauty hath been accepted  AB10432

The designs for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar were reviewed. They are all good - whichever one the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar committee prefers is best.  AB00794

The news of the Divine praise and glorification at dawn in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar with spiritual melodies brought much joy and delight.   AB11772

The article that thou hast written concerning the Mashrek El-Azkar contained eloquent paragraphs and wonderful and subtle significances.  AB02405

They have strived with heart and soul and offered assistance to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, treading the path of Thy good-pleasure.   AB01017

because the friends of God in Persia are all rejoiced in commemorating you in the meetings and assemblies, in houses and Mashrak-el-Azcars  AB03535

Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, thou hast shown the utmost endeavor and God willing it shall be completed with perfect joy and fragrance.   AB07324

How wonderful it would be to establish a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and a universal school on this mountain. Mashriqu'l-Adhkars will be established.  ABU2151

The matter of the House of His Holiness the Proof is of the utmost importance, and our purpose is that it should become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB08007

Inform the maid-servant of God, who prepared her home as a [temporary] Mashrak-el-Azcar, that this service was accepted in the Kingdom of ABHA.  AB00587

I hope that all of them may be assisted in the service of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, so that this divine Institution may be raised in that country   AB11526

Inform the maid-servant of God, who prepared her home as a [temporary] Mashrak-el-Azcar, that this service was accepted in the Kingdom of ABHA.   AB00587

In the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, offer prayers at the Threshold of Oneness, show forth humility and submission, and engage in praise and glorification.  AB00122

Regarding the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, two letters were previously written to Jinab-i-Aqa Musa - proceed according to those instructions.  AB05988

Those two stars which you observed were a wondrous sign, for they were above the Michigan River and now it is the site of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.   AB04067

Also in the future a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will be established on Mount Carmel. Thou wilt be its architect and founder. I give thee this glad tiding.  AB09914

The fragrant flower that thou hast sent from the land of Mashriku'l Adhkar is at this very moment in my hand and I am inhaling its sweet perfume.   AB06240

"Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, the response that was written was most acceptable. God willing, it shall be carried out in exactly this manner."  AB03859

Now you, O cherished youth, praise be to God, have contributed beyond your means of dirhams and dinars for the completion of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   AB01245

"Therefore if with utmost desire you make your place a House of Worship, its custodianship belongs to your noble son and distinguished descendant."  AB12028

The friends in Husaynabad, having established a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, are worthy of praise and are the recipients of the favors of the Manifest Light.  AB11162

The model of Mr. Borgeois, praise be to God, has become acceptable to the friends, especially that it has proved approvable to his honor, Mr. Remey   AB03655

The matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is of utmost importance. A contribution arrived from Iran and was sent, and likewise this servant sent an amount  AB01759

Abdul-Baha said a contribution had been sent from Persia for the Mashrak-el-Azkar in Chicago and we should take the sum with us to the United States.  ABU0476

As for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar assembly, they are indeed showing the utmost effort and zeal. This new edifice is acceptable and its foundation endless.  AB01713

Praise be to God, five hundred pounds and three hundred pounds arrived from Baghdad and were immediately sent to Baghdad for the repair of the House.  AB10851

Send to me the design of the Mashrek-el-Azkar as produced by him. I pray God that this year the construction of the Mashrek-el-Azkar will be started.   AB01652

"I, however, have accepted your gifts; but I entrust them to you for you sell and send the proceeds to the fund for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Chicago."  ABU1499

The utmost joy was produced by the news of the purchase of the ground for the erection of the Temple. I hope that ere long they may lay the foundation.  AB00756

I hope that they will soon arise for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and thus attain success. All the beloved of God must strive so that this eternal edifice arise.   AB06042

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar must be free from cashier or treasurer's office. However, there is no objection to placing a box at a certain spot for contributions.  AB02904

The effort thou hast shown in matters related to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is a decisive proof of complete steadfastness and servitude at the Divine Threshold   AB11889

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar assembly is the dawning-place of lights, and the assembly for the diffusion of divine fragrances is the manifestation of clear signs.  AB12022

If you go to Green Acre this coming summer it would be very appropriate, and if you are enabled to assist the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar it would be most acceptable.  AB04340

Should there be a righteous and steadfast son of him who hath ascended, the trust shall be returned unto him, otherwise it shall go to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   BH00881

Details about construction and administration of the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Ishqabad, including committee members, architectural plans, and progress reports.  AB12120

Changing the location of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar to a better and more exalted site is permissible; it is acceptable to have several Mashriqu'l-Adhkars in one city.  AB11484

Regarding the pilgrim house, there is no more meritorious deed than this today. Write down the names of those souls who are the founders of this enduring edifice   AB01257

Praise God that thou hast been assisted in establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in that land and become the cause of promoting the worship and servitude of the Lord.  AB06902

As for the list of debt for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar land, the purpose was for you to know that payment of the installment for the price of the land has been delayed   AB06085

O Lord! They have spent their wealth in building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, that they may remember Thee at dawn and at daybreak, and worship Thee by night and by day.   AB00202

Ere long the melody of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will reach the Concourse on High from every land, and the light of the Cause of God will illuminate the world of being.   AB03403

What should be done about the 'Liberty Bonds' that were sent as contributions to the Mashrak-ul-Askar fund? Who is to decide upon the plans or the Mashrak-ul-Askar?   ABU2941

Offer prayers before the Threshold of Oneness in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar (Baha'i Temple of Worship), beseech and supplicate to God and engage in glorification and praise  AB08463

And among the divine bounties was that on that same day in Chicago, the Convention of delegates was formed and the decision to construct the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was made  AB04428

Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, details were written to the Afnan and sent with the design. No response has yet arrived. Upon receipt of the response it will be sent.   AB01268

"Don't forget this, that this is a Universal Temple, - advertise it so; announce that this is for all and every religion and that whoever wished can come and worship."   ABU3239

Praised be God, the friends in 'Ishqabad have laid a solid foundation, an unassailable base. It was in the City of Love that the first Baha'i House of Worship was erected   AB02250

This structure shall be remembered eternally, for it hath been reared up in the name of God and during the days of God, and hath been adorned with the ornament of approval.  BH11375

And the House is the sanctuary of justice, and its day is like my house, like the Ka'bah in the Sacred Mosque, and it is a sanctuary of peace for all who humble themselves.   BB00398

The house which thou hast prepared for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is acceptable, and thou thyself must become an eternal servant in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of that land and region.  AB07449

The garden that the late Aqa Muhammad Baqir and his wife, the handmaiden of God, dedicated to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has been accepted at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty.  AB03453

If you make the Garden of the Merciful into a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, it is permissible, so that in that blessed spot glorification and sanctification may reach the ethereal sphere   AB01000

The petition that was submitted regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was very appropriate, though in truth the land you desire is not available now but will be prepared in the future.  AB02674

However, if they wish to construct and establish a special building, that construction would be most fitting if it does not hinder contributions to the Chicago Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB11338

God willing, may some soul be assisted to establish a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in this land, and beside it a place for the righteous, for no suitable location can be found in this land.   BH00480

Your letter was received and its contents brought the utmost joy, that you have sent Mrs. Mabel Geary as a delegate to Chicago and are striving to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB11374

Thou hadst mentioned the construction of the sacred edifice and the raising of the mighty temple, and hadst expressed thy utmost desire to help carry earth for that lofty structure.  AB04842

Hold in utmost reverence the House of God, for the holy breezes of My grace blow forth and pass through My House - verily I pass by My House in the nights and days, did ye but know.   BH05330

Regarding Khudabakhsh, you had written that he has been confirmed in outstanding services and has shown more effort than others concerning the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and the pilgrim house  AB01814

However, when the Mashreq'Ul Azkar is organized the spiritual meetings will be devoted especially to teaching, and the place of worship will become focalized in the Mashreq'Ul Azkar.  AB02223

The believers of God in America, one and all, must unitedly make an effort, so that the Temple of God will be built in Chicago, then, afterwards, it will be built in other localities.  AB07836

whether the House of Worship should be built and endowments established. At present, since the sacred edifice is under construction, it would be preferable to spend it on this purpose  AB11038

These notes are the cause of the encouragement of the believers of God in the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar; therefore the more it is published and circulated the better it is.  AB09484

These notes are the cause of the encouragement of the believers of God in the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar; therefore the more it is published and circulated the better it is.  AB09484

"The details of the convention of representatives from American cities that gathered in Chicago for building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is enclosed. Publish it soon and send to all regions."  AB01678

Give thanks unto thy Lord for having raised thee up in His days and caused thee to dwell in a house wherein the mention of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Glorious, the Praised One, is raised.   BH04642

In the Mashrak-el-Azkar services will be held every morning, and the words of Baha'o'llah only are to be read. Mashrak-el-Azkar means "Dawning Point of Mention" (Where God is mentioned).   ABU2684

out of their love for the Light of the World, to expend what they have as an offering to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, the dayspring of Thy wide-spread rays and the proclaimer of Thine evidences  AB10321

Particularly in the matter of the Tarbiyat School, the friends of the East assisted the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of America despite being in utmost straitened circumstances and internal upheaval.  AB10173

I have thanked God with a sound heart that He has confirmed the loved ones, despite poverty and want, in assisting the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar which will raise its pillars in the heart of America  AB12084

The most important thing in this day is the speedy erection of this Edifice (the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar). Its mystery is great and cannot be unveiled just yet. In the future it will be made plain.  ABU3252

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar must have nine sides, doors, fountains, paths, gateways, columns and gardens, with the ground floor galleries and domes, and in construction and design must be beautiful.   ABU3337



You have written that a sum of money is raised to be contributed toward the Mashrak-El-Azkar. Ask ye of God that the American Believers may become assisted in the building of this great Temple.   AB01926

Concerning the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, you had written that from every place funds were received, they were sent to 'Ishqabad. This deed is most praiseworthy and acceptable at the Threshold of Oneness.  AB12347

"For the present it is better to keep all the documents in the safety deposit vault in New York. Then later you may put all of them in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. Hang them on the walls, not in a safe."   ABU0768

This is the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar from which the lights of commemoration will dawn, and in whose early mornings and evenings the melody of glorification and praise will reach the Concourse on High.   AB00659

Such is especially the case with regard to the founding of public institutions that benefit all people, and, in particular, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, which constituteth the greatest of divine foundations.  AB00362

Regarding the renovation of the House of God in the city that you wrote about requesting instructions - the House needs to be rebuilt from its foundation since three sides have completely deteriorated.   AB12059

The beloved of God and the maidservants of the Merciful intend to found a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Chicago. They have sent to us numerous plans that one may be accepted and the edifice be built accordingly.  AB11079

Therefore strive with all power and generosity until you build this first structure in the name of Baha in the continent of America. This edifice has a mighty effect upon the hearts of the faithful ones.  AB05431

I want to know if my home in Berkeley may become a Baha'i Center with your blessing? Very good. The very fact that you wish to have your home in Berkeley as a Baha'i Center is an indication of capacity.   ABU3089

The resolve shown by the assembly in their intention to contribute to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar brought great joy and delight to hearts. I hope that all the friends of God will be successful in this service.  AB03401

Know thou that the building of the Mashrak-el-Azkar is the greatest foundation in those regions. God said in the Koran, "It is those who believed in God, and the Last Day, shall build the Temples of God."   AB05389

If it were possible to establish a place, even with utmost discretion, as a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, it would be most fitting - but with perfect wisdom lest it become a cause of mischief by the people of hatred   AB03876

The establishment of Mashriqu'l-Adhkars has begun with utmost effort in all regions. Soon the melody of sanctification and glorification will reach the Supreme Concourse from the Mashriqu'l-Adhkars at dawn.   AB04847

If we build the Temple quickly, and send a ship for You, will you come to America? I will come of My own volition to America if they build the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar quickly. But, they will not build it quickly.   ABU0381

O Afnan! Upon thee be my Baha! Praise be to God that thou hast succeeded in constructing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of God, whose remembrance and fragrance shall endure and persist as long as the Kingdom endureth.  BH10993

Now a spiritual gathering is being formed there and the verses of unity are being chanted... the contribution that thou hadst sent for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Chicago has been received and will be forwarded.   AB04720

The first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in America was instituted in Chicago, and this honor and distinction is infinite in value. Out of this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, without doubt, thousands of Mashriqu'l-Adhkars will be born.  AB00184

As to what you wrote about the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar being designated in the land of Ta, and likewise being established and becoming established through God's grace in other lands - these matters were presented at the Most Holy Court. This is what the Tongue of Grandeur spoke in reply: "Blessed is the spot, and the house, and the place, and the city, and the heart, and the mountain, and the refuge, and the cave, and the valley, and the land, and the sea, and the island, and the meadow where mention of God hath been made, and His praise glorified." This binding decree was revealed in the Most Holy Book. However, these matters are contingent upon wisdom. In all cases one must look to the horizon of wisdom, for the corrupt ones and troublemakers lie in wait, seeking to find a pretext to raise an uproar.... The raising of Mashriqu'l-Adhkars in the cities and regions of the land of Kha is beloved, for it accordeth with the Book of God and His ways. But it must be concealed from all save trustworthy, steadfast souls.  BH00074

The land that the Persian friends have prepared in Husayn-Abad for the school and Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and the contributions they have gathered for the construction of the school, are truly a source of utmost joy.  AB06692

Since we are now engaged in building the House, if any disturbance arises they will prevent the construction. When the House is built, the House itself will teach - that is, it will cause people to become aware.   AB11682

On the day of Naw-Ruz, Jinab-i-Aqa 'Abbasquli endowed three thousand square cubits of land on Mount Carmel as a dedication to the Sacred Shrine, that either a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar be established or a school be built.   AB06073

the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has assumed the utmost importance. Now we must show a hundred times more effort than before, so that at such a time this divine edifice may be raised up and this foundation laid   AB02469

May the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in that region be established and secured with the utmost wisdom. O Lord! Make Hisar a haven for the righteous, a center for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and a source for the emanation of lights.  AB06141

Discussion of suitable ground for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, suggesting it would be better to have wider ground with the building in the middle surrounded by a flower garden, though the present ground is also permissible.  AB03109

The purchase of land for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was most acceptable and God willing it will become a temple for the righteous. For now, out of wisdom, give it another name so that it does not cause commotion and uproar.  AB11674

Utmost joy was obtained from the establishment of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar...I hope they will be successful in serving the divine friends and the spiritual beloved ones and in arranging and organizing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB03683

This glorious Temple resembles the Oriental edifices and soon thou wilt see it erected there with a most solid foundation and strongest basis. That divine face will beam upon numberless souls who will enter this Temple.   AB00438

Particularly commendable is the zeal thou hast shown in connection with the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Chicago. This donation of thine will have a profound effect in America, and thus did Abdul-Baha become immensely delighted.  AB11151

This Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is the first divine establishment of this new age; therefore, it will gain most great importance in the future centuries and will become a place of pilgrimage for the peoples and nations of the world  AB01831

As to what you wrote concerning the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and the blessed spot and the place of consultation and the united, assured souls - praise be to God that the friends of Truth have attained to the service of the Cause.   BH00291

What you had sent for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar arrived, and whoever shows effort for building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Bushruyih becomes the recipient of endless divine favors and attains blessing and felicity in both worlds.   AB01689

As for the friends in Iraq, regarding the assistance for the children of the martyrs and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, they have exerted every sufficient and adequate effort, and I have become pleased with it and satisfied with them.  AB11408

Thou hadst written that the friends intend to contribute towards the cost of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. This is the first incident of its kind; therefore, it will undoubtedly yield laudable results and bring forth admirable effects.  AB11827

You had written about the continuance of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar as before, which was the cause of spiritual joy and delight. However, we are awaiting its daily increase. Each succeeding day should be greater than the previous day.   AB02982

As for your sincere intention and wholehearted purpose in raising the foundations of the House in place of that illustrious man - you are permitted to do this and every steadfast soul who draws near to God must assist you in this.   AB02448

You had written that the friends and handmaidens of the All-Merciful in that region have arisen in unity and service with the hope of 'Abdu'l-Baha's coming, and that the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is progressing and spreading.  AB04048

On the shore of Lake Michigan a piece of land is blessed because it has been mentioned by the name of Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. Whosoever arises for the service of this building shall be assisted with a great power from His Supreme Kingdom  AB11120

You have shown great effort and extended a helping hand in supporting the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. You have again contributed to its construction. Through Sheikh and Khan, dedicate the pledged fifty tumans to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar as well.  AB09189

Whatever the loved ones of God have offered for the construction of this mighty House is accepted and welcome. Likewise, if hereafter anyone should, with utmost desire, offer something for that sacred edifice, accept it and record it.   AB03026

This Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is Thy first visible edifice, and the token of Thy limitless palace. The fame of this foundation hath spread throughout all the lands, and the acclaim of this palace hath been diffused throughout the entire world.   AB11877

The affairs of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar have been somewhat delayed and suspended. If it were possible for general contributions to be made according to capacity, even if small, this would be most acceptable in the court of the Divine Unity.  AB12212

completion of the minarets of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar... The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar committee and service committee are worthy of praise and are sacrificing their lives... truly showed great resolve in offering his house to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   AB11830

You had written that you wish to spend for the sisters the amount that was designated for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. If you have prepared this from your own funds, spend half of it for the sisters and send the other half to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar  AB03996

But if there is a Mashrekol-Azkar it is better to worship there. In the other worshiping places the hearts are not engaged in worshiping God. They are turned to the world. Therefore in those places the breaths of the Merciful are not inhaled.   ABU1654

The construction of this great building is the first divine foundation of the people of Unity in America and it will be like unto Mother unto the temples of God. All the temples which will be built in the future are born from this great Temple.  AB05174

In any case, regarding the new building that you have purchased and designated as a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, what you wrote about this blessed deed is most acceptable and beloved. God willing, it will become the cause of both inner and outer victories.  AB11165

Give thanks to God that you have been successful and established the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and in the early dawn engaged in the remembrance of the Lord. You have established the House of Unity and engaged in glorifying and praising the Glorious Lord.  AB11899

Certainly no slackening is permissible in any way, so that the sound of praise and glorification may reach from the place of remembrance to the heaven of sanctification and the melody of praise and thanksgiving may arrive at the Supreme Concourse.   AB03504

There will be two universities, but the school as an accessory of the Mashrak-el-Azcar will not be as large as the university. They are the necessary accompaniments of the Mashrak-el-Azcar. It must be a useful agency. It must not be a worldly one.   ABU3250

in these days the new resolve which ye have shown in completing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has brought joy to 'Abdu'l-Baha and gladness to this servant at the threshold of greatness... who were the first to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in all regions   AB01488

His honor Asad and the son of My Name Al-Asdaq, upon them be My Baha, have arisen to serve the Cause, and whatsoever they have executed regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and the Spot of Blessing in the lands of Kha hath been approved by the Supreme Pen.  BH01019

Thou hast given the greatest importance to the question of the Masherko'l Azkar. The Mashreko'l Azkar is a magnet for the confirmations rendered by the Supreme Concourse. The sooner ye begin its construction the greater the confirmations attained to.   AB01312

Truly he was confirmed in a great service. He was the first person to undertake building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and with heart, soul and wealth he engaged in establishing that edifice and was successful. He is the first builder of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  ABU0617

And if it be possible to begin the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, do not delay. As regards the land, carry out the agreement that you have made with the owner of the property, that it may be purchased, but let the payment be made in installments.  AB02507

Praise be to God Who hath raised His House to such a station that the Concourse on High and the denizens of the Kingdom of Names have circumambulated it, and hath made it the point of adoration for the world and the sanctuary round which the peoples circle.  BH01748

As for the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, come together with the friends in utmost love and unity, consult and delve into this matter and reach a unanimous decision, and submit a request to the Government for a site. Now proceed to secure a plot of land.   AB04276

the melody of those friends rises from the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar to the highest horizon, and in utmost humility and supplication they are engaged in prayer, and listen to verses, and occupy themselves with communes, and raise the anthem of glorification and praise  AB04121

both he and I share the desire that in Balakhan the divine edifice be raised high and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar be established, and that the sound of praise and glorification reach the Kingdom of the Lord, become the cause of awakening souls and attracting hearts   AB12156

In reality, the radiant, pure hearts are the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and from them the voice of supplication and invocation continually reaches the Supreme Concourse...they will certainly exert the utmost endeavor and energy in the building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB10777

Although in the future thousands of Mashriqu'l-Adhkars will be erected, this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, because it is the first to be built in America, is very important, and its impact and effect shall be boundless. Soon some results will become evident and manifest.   AB01935

News hath arrived that a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar hath been established--that in that land, the praise and glorification of God hath reached unto the Kingdom of Glory, and the melodies of praise and devotion to the spiritual Beloved have reached the Concourse on High.   AB11853

From this news great fragrance and joy were produced. Thanks be to God that thou wast helped to establish a meeting for this purpose. I hope that the members of this meeting will become the receivers of the divine benevolence and aided by the heavenly assistances.  AB02577

The protection and preservation of the Holy House - which is the point of circumambulation for divine ones and the Kaaba of spiritual ones - is necessary and obligatory from every direction, and today there is no greater service at the Sacred Threshold than this.   AB03027

Now it is hoped that the believers of God may show magnanimity and raise a great sum for the building, so that the foundation of the Mashrak-el-Azkar may be laid, and, perchance, God willing, the cornerstone of the foundation may be laid by the hands of Abdul-Baha.   AB06587

The joyous news of the establishment of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar had such a spirit and fragrance that it is beyond description. Indeed, you have made 'Abdu'l-Baha pleased and happy by establishing the House of the remembrance of the Lord in such a manner and condition.  AB11817

Music is regarded as a praiseworthy science at the Threshold of the Almighty, so that thou mayest chant verses at large gatherings and congregations in a most wondrous melody and raise such hymns of praise at the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar to enrapture the Concourse on High.   AB06829

Make thy house a nest and shelter for the celestial birds, so that they may sing for thee divine melodies and reveal the mysteries of the knowledge of God. May that gathering in Seattle become a Paradise Supreme and may its fame endure throughout the cycles and ages.  AB00466

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of 'Ishqabad has had and continues to have utmost importance at this time...at such a time and in such circumstances, 'Abdu'l-Baha is thinking about raising up the edifice of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and is immersed in these thoughts day and night.   AB03217

The friends there laid the foundations of a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in the great house, but left it unfinished... This plan containeth nine doors, nine pathways, nine gardens, nine pools, nine sides, nine columns, nine pillars, nine verandas and nine porticos on the inside.  AB01442

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Chicago is of the utmost importance. This is a Baha'i Temple, a divine house of worship, a spiritual gathering place, and a heavenly meeting place of mysteries. The friends must strive with all their hearts so that this edifice will be raised.  AB00759

It was commanded that he appoint a deputy for the construction of a lofty, exalted House. This matter is one that will endure and remain as long as the Most Beautiful Names endure, and its fruits are greater, mightier and more excellent than a hundred thousand children.   BH01277

One of the wondrous events that has of late come to pass is this, that the edifice of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is being raised in the very heart of the American continent, and numerous souls from the surrounding regions are contributing for the erection of this holy Temple.  AB00615

Regarding the site that was designated for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar but has not yet been built upon, its change is permitted, but in these days with the approval of the Spiritual Assembly and in the future with the confirmation of the House of Justice whenever it is established.  AB09927

from every city in America the divine friends had deputized and dispatched a representative. Thus forty blessed souls, representatives of the cities, gathered in Chicago on that same day of Naw-Ruz and definitively allocated the location and structure of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   AB03378

"When these institutions, college, hospital, hospice and establishments for the incurables, university for the study of higher sciences and giving post-graduate courses, and other philanthropic buildings, are built, its doors will be open to all the nations and all religions."  ABU2301

As to the matter of building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, that is, the matter of beginning its construction - an important (or considerable) sum of money must decidedly be prepared in order that work may be begun: that is, at least two or three hundred thousand dollars must be ready.  AB11088

In the terminology of the Holy Books the church has been called the house of the covenant for the reason that the church is a place where people of different thoughts and divergent tendencies -- where all races and nations -- may come together in a covenant of permanent fellowship.  ABU0006

His honor Karbila'i Muhammad-Hadi, the caretaker of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, is my master - that is, I am his servant, for he is a servant of the Blessed Beauty and sweeps the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. This is not service, it is sovereignty; this is not an ordinary matter, it is pure bounty.  AB02757



The photograph of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar that you had sent arrived and caused utmost joy, for praise be to God, the loved ones of God in that Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of the All-Merciful have each lit up their faces like candles and illumined that gathering with the lights of spiritual feelings.  AB01380

Mrs. True is one of the first maid servants of the Kingdom of God. She is well-known to and praised by the believers and the maid servants of the Merciful both in the East and in the West. She has displayed and is displaying the utmost effort in the construction of the Mashrek El Azkar.   AB00626

The Covenant-breakers say that they are able to prevent You from building the Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab]. However, I told them that You will succeed in building the Shrine since it is mentioned in the stories of prophets that The Branch of God shall build the House of the Lord.  ABU3647

Among other things, in Merv he arranged for establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and sent the design to the Holy Land... The glorious Russian government freely gave land in Merv specifically for building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and with Imperial permission the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will be built.   AB02742


Praise be to God that the New York believers became confirmed in the accomplishment of a great service and held in that City the Consultation Convention for the erection of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. They displayed the utmost of effort till that convention was inaugurated with infinite perfection.  AB04304

Whatever belongs to the doorway, give to Aqa Ahmad so that it may be sent with utmost speed to Chicago for assistance to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, as an amount was sent to pay the installment due on the land but it was not sufficient and more must be sent. If it is not paid, great loss will result.  AB09051

They seek to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and to lay the foundation of the signs of the Lord. What a wondrous intention this is and what a magnificent endeavor, for the establishment of a place of remembrance is most important and the cause of exalting the Word of God in every region and land   AB03968

It is our hope that, in the year to come, the friends of the All-Merciful who live in free lands will, in a spirit of joy and radiance, lay the foundations of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and arise to clearly and openly praise and glorify the Beauty of the Unconstrained and recite the obligatory prayer   AB00048

Whatever belongs to the doorway, give to Aqa Ahmad so that it may be sent with utmost speed to Chicago for assistance to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, for an amount was sent to pay the installment due on the land but it was not sufficient and more must be sent. If it is not paid, great loss will result.  AB09051

The Convention of the delegates for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was held in perfect order... Although hereafter thousands of Mashriqu'l-Adhkars will be founded, yet as this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is the first divine Institute in America, therefore, it is very important and its results and fruits are endless.  AB07840

Leave hath, moreover, been given to whosoever may desire to raise, throughout the length and breadth of this land, noble and imposing structures, and dedicate the rich and sacred territories adjoining the Jordan and its vicinity to the worship and service of the one true God, magnified be His glory  BH02294

Especially you, that lofty branch of the tree of oneness who serves the house of the King of Unity - you must arise to honor and care for the House in all ways such that you become the envy of the treasurers of heaven and the object of wonder to those who bear and circumambulate around the throne.   AB02810

You have given the glad news that the foundation of Mashrekel Azkar will be laid next year. This is also my hope that this Temple may become fully constructed and the holy verse of the Koran: "We have given thee a great victory" become realized. For the building of this Temple is a most great triumph  AB02848

As to the problems of Mashriqu'l-Adhkar all are to be referred to the general Convention. Whatever is decided upon thereat, is acceptable and should be executed. With regard to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, which Mr. Rockfleur intends to build as a part of the exhibition of all temples, there is no harm therein.  AB10990

O Lord! Confirm these who have spent in every good endeavor in the earthly and heavenly kingdoms, for they have expended their wealth in establishing the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in the heart of the land and have given what Thou didst bestow upon them to build Thy frequented House with praiseworthy effort.   AB07762

from every American city the friends had elected representatives and sent them to Chicago where forty delegates gathered and made definitive arrangements for the location and construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar so that all American believers would participate in building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Chicago   AB01131

However, the friends must first build a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and only then a hostel. 'Ishqabad's Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was built in the midst of tumult and turmoil, and yet it is a mother that will constantly give birth. The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is a magnet that attracts divine confirmations and draws affirmation.   ABU2436

I accept the five acres of land that thou hast mentioned. But use it in the benefit of (or literally "expend or employ it for") the Mashriqu'l Adhkar. Today all the beloved of God in those parts must endeavor that the Chicago Mashriqu'l Adhkar be founded and be built in the utmost solidity and exquisiteness.  AB03475

When the Mashrak-el-Adkar is built, then the matter of prayer will become adjusted... It seems a pity to build the Mashrek-el-Adhkar only half the size of the original plan. The original would cost several million (dollars). If it is according to the original plan it would take about fifty years to build it.  ABU0314

Mrs. Parsons asked, Where will the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar be built? ['Abdu'l-Baha] replied, Near the Shrine of the Exalted One. On one side, the largest and most important scientific school will be raised. Then He added, On the other side, there will be an asylum for invalids and on the opposite side an orphanage.  ABU3654

Since this servant had set aside an amount specifically for building the honored House in the Abode of Peace [Baghdad], but as it was insufficient, the intention was that once it reached an adequate amount, construction of the honored House in Baghdad would begin, as some of its foundations have deteriorated.  AB06895

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is a divine edifice in this nether world and the means of the attainment of the oneness of humanity, inasmuch as all nations shall gather in fellowship and unity in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and, chanting the anthems of divine unity, engage in the praise and glorification of the Lord of Hosts.  AB08186

Regarding the matter of the house ascending to God belonging to the daughter of Aqa Muhammad-Sadiq, who is the wife of Aqa Mirza Asadu'llah - sell those three shares of the house and send all the proceeds to Ishqabad to the presence of the Afnan of the Blessed Tree to be spent on building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB01200

As to the assistance rendered to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar by Miss B. Quist and Mr. Calkins, this was most acceptable, for the consideration is not the amount but the love. And since it indicates the utmost love, it is therefore most acceptable and has been allocated to be used for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Chicago.  AB04427

Thou hast written regarding the building of the Mashrak-el-Azcar in Washington. This matter was discussed with the maid-servant of Baha', Miss . . . It hath been concluded that when she arrives in America she will discuss this question with you. Whatever will be the conclusions of your discussion write to Acca.   AB06662

The assistance for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of 'Ishqabad was most acceptable, and this is what befits one like you today. Whoever renders service to that House of the Lord, that service becomes highly acceptable at the Sacred Threshold, for this is the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar established in the realm of possibility  AB02026

I beseech Thee by it and by them that Thou withhold not my sight from beholding the wondrous lights of the sanctity of Thy beauty, and deprive not my face from the manifestations of the breezes of the dawn of Thy meeting, and close not off from my heart the fragrances of the might of Thy revelation and inspiration.  BH00071

Thy letter, concerning the celebration of the anniversary of the declaration of His Holiness the Supreme --may my spirit be sacrificed for Him!--which was held on the land of the Mashrak-el-Azcar, was read... I am hopeful that, during the coming of Rizwan, a great feast shall be held in the land of the Mashrak-el-Azcar  AB04046

"Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, you mentioned that Aqa 'Ali Muhammad Khan and Jinab-i-Muvaqqaru'd-Dawlih have purchased the birthplace of the Bab, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, and they are also selling an adjacent house. That location is very suitable, but whatever the friends deem advisable is acceptable."  AB00859

During the days of Ridvan, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was a gathering place for friends and strangers alike, appearing in the greatest majesty. And regarding the place where the sacred remains were deposited - it has been purchased and has now become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and two neighboring houses have also been acquired.   AB02908

Move thou the soil, carry the clay, and haul the stones on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha for the building of this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar so that the thrill generated by thy service may bring joy and gladness to the Centre of Servitude. That Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is the first manifest and evident establishment of the Lord in this age.  AB11820

Jinab-i-Aqa Musa, upon him be mercy and contentment, was not successful during his lifetime in establishing and building the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Baku. And you know that I accepted nothing from him. But if he had erected this mighty edifice, what an effect it would have had now in both the earthly and heavenly kingdoms!  AB00732

In the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar services will be held every morning. There will be no organ in the Temple. In buildings nearby, festivals, services, conventions, public meetings and spiritual gatherings will be held, but in the Temple the chanting and singing will be unaccompanied. Open ye the gates of the Temple to all mankind.  ABU3336

Thine utmost wish and desire was the rearing and establishment of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. There is a right time for everything--and praise be to God that its time hath now come! The greatest endeavour must be exerted for this sublime edifice, that it may be erected with the utmost strength, firmness, elegance, and grace.   AB11982

All the divine friends were delighted in the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar...that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar could be established with such freedom in that land. God willing, its melody will reach the Concourse on High at dawn. As for Abbas-of's receipt for the funds, use them in the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.   AB11855

Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, you wrote that praise be to God it has been established, and that his honor Adib and some of the divine friends were present and engaged in praising the Truth. Give thanks to God that you have been enabled to render this other service. This service is like unto the first, nay rather it is greater.  AB06482

Regarding the offering of prayer from sunrise to noon - the intention of "sunrise" is the break of dawn, but the thoughtless suppose it means sunrise, whereas He says "Blessed is he who at dawn directs himself to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar," and regarding the building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, if all lands contribute, it is acceptable.  AB00291

His honor, my dear brother, has truly made an extraordinary effort by offering his residence in Bushruyih as a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and the friends of God with utmost effort undertook its repair, and that spiritual beloved, namely His Honor Aqa Mir-Vali, dedicated one share of the Mirabad farm for the lights of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar  AB08657

Indeed, thou hast shown great effort in the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. This assistance thou hast rendered is recorded in all the heavenly scrolls, divine books, and the Most Exalted Register, and through this assistance thou shalt forever be the recipient of the favors and the object of the bounties of the All-Merciful Lord.  AB06691

I hope that in this year [1917] the solid and firm foundation of Mashrekol-azkar be laid. In reality, thou are displaying great effort. Praise be to God that through thy endeavor and magnanimity useful results were produced. I hope the believers of God will become able to pay the $200,000.00 which they have pledged themselves to contribute.  AB02927

The question of the Mashrekol-Azkar is of great importance. The friends accordingly must exert a great deal of effort and must be self-sacrificing so that its construction may begin. As to appeal and encouragement for the Mashrekol-Azkar, in view of the glory and eminence of the Cause, it must be made orally or through private personal letters.  AB02063

And since in those parts the first foundation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is raised high and the divine friends are engaged in service with perfect joy, you too on my behalf should serve one day in that foundation of God's religion and be occupied with earth-moving and labor work so that my spirit in this Sacred Land may become happy and gladdened.   AB01827

O Mahdi! Hearken unto the call of thy Lord with the ear of thine inmost nature, then turn thy face toward the precincts of the House, this Sanctuary which God hath built with the hands of His power and made it an ornament of His Self between the heavens and the earths. Say: O people! Destroy not the sanctuary of God with hands of rancor and hatred.  BH11729

We have sent the illustrious branch of the Blessed Tree, Jinab-i-Haji Mirza Muhammad-Taqi Afnan to 'Ishqabad so that there, through the grace and favor of the Blessed Beauty and the spirituality of the Exalted One, he may establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. The fame and renown of this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will reach all regions and will have a wonderful effect  AB01834

The two plans for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar arrived, and both were reviewed. They cheered the hearts, and the friends and the handmaids of the Merciful engaged in speaking forth thy praise. Thou shouldst, however, discuss the design and form of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar with the members of the Spiritual Assembly, in order that that ye may decide upon it in unity.  AB11874

In regard to yourself, you should now serve the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and assist the Afnan of the blessed Sidrah. Due to the befallen adversities and the shedding of the pure bloods, the issue of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has gained great importance in other lands and should be completed by all means. Disregard and negligence can be degrading to the Cause of God.   AB00573

The beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful intend to found a Mashrak-el-Azkar in Chicago. They have sent to us numerous plans, that one may be accepted and the edifice be built accordingly. Now the funds must be accumulated, the land entirely paid for and the necessary preparations for building made and then the accessory matters considered.   AB00530

Now the day has arrived in which the edifice of God, the divine sanctuary, the spiritual Temple, shall be erected in America. For the Cause is great--because this is the first Mashrak-el-Azkar in that country, and from it the praise of God shall ascend to the Kingdom of Mystery and the tumult of His exaltation and greeting from the whole world shall be heard.  AB07839

Praised be God! The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is the dayspring of lights--its garden shone like unto a lamp, its pathways were ornamented with the designs of wondrous flowers, its pools flowed with living waters, and its fountains gushed forth like unto the hearts of the lovers. This is the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar that hath been reared, and it hath great importance.   AB02602

The scroll containing your plan for the establishment of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and its dependencies consisting of a hospital, schools, a travellers' hospice, and quarters for the elderly and the poor... These edifices are places of supplication and invocation to the Threshold of His grandeur and the greatest means of diffusing the sweet savours of the Lord.   AB12079

thou hast made thy home a nest and shelter for the birds of the meadow, transformed it into a rose-garden of divine unity, and established it as a gathering place for the people of detachment, so that at dawn and daybreak it may become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar where lights will shine forth and the melody of devotion and supplication will be raised to the Abha Kingdom  AB09505

Although they will build this Mashrak-el-Azkar with the utmost beauty and completeness, yet, for the sake of the communication between orient and occident, the increase of spiritual affection and love and the solidarity of the foundation of unity and concord, all the believers in the east must contribute according to their means, no matter how small the sum may be.  AB00362

The intention that His Honor Aqa Husayn Khan has made in Himmatabad and the desirable land that he has purchased for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar - this service will be accepted in the Kingdom of Oneness like the pure blood of martyrs... for the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has countless importance. It is a divine foundation and the edifice of the Merciful's monastery.   AB00735

In respect to the Mashrak-el-Azcar: brevity must now be observed; that is, as much as possible endeavor should be made so that by the assistance of all the friends and the sincerity of your intentions it may become instituted and built in Chicago even though it be not possible to build a most solid, lofty and great (edifice). Whatever is now possible should be erected.  AB01423

As for the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, it is very important. Exercise the utmost effort in this regard as it is of great significance. Praise be to God, Mashriqu'l-Adhkars have been established in all lands, even in villages - in some places they have been built and in others a location has been designated, and at dawn they are engaged in the remembrance of the Lord.   AB01252

The matter of building the Mashreq'Ul Azkar in Chicago is of supreme importance. Even if it be only a single room now it will have greater effect than the largest temples of the future. The most important thing in this day is the speedy erection of the Edifice - the Mashreq'Ul Azkar. Its mystery is great and cannot be unveiled just yet. In the future it will be made plain.  ABU3169

In any city where word of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar would arouse alarm and protests, and precipitate the mischief-making of the perverse and wayward, it is not permissible that it be openly established. Nevertheless, should the friends meet somewhere in the utmost privacy and secrecy to recite the daily prayers and communes, this would be highly pleasing at the Threshold of God.  AB04692

My hope is that in the coming year the foundation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will be laid, and in the clime of America this heavenly edifice will rise so high that it will be visible from a great distance and the melody of glorification and praise will reach the Abha Kingdom. I beseech God that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Chicago will become the second Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of 'Ishqabad.  AB03129

The establishment of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is one of the greatest principles of the Lord. This important matter is more necessary than other matters of importance, but should its establishment appear to be contrary to wisdom and become the cause of clamor and mischief by other peoples, then certainly a place should be designated for it in secret and be called by a different name.  AB01741

I ask God to make the heart of every one of you a temple of the Divine Temples and to let the lamp of the great guidance be lighted therein; and when the hearts find such an attainment, they will certainly exert the utmost endeavor and energy in the building of the Mashrak-el-Azcar; thus may the outward express the inward, and the form (or letter) indicate the meaning (or reality).  AB06288

"Soon shall that great Temple be completed and the voice of prayer and praise ascend to the sublime Kingdom. I rejoiced to hear of the momentous undertaking upon which ye have embarked with such joy, ardour, and manifest zeal. I beseech the Lord to aid you in the promotion of His Word, and to assist you, by His ancient grace and favour, to lay the foundation of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar."  AB02454

The matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is of utmost importance and will have momentous results. This is the first divine foundation being established in that region, and praise be to God, the friends of God have all arisen from all directions to assist. Thus far, numerous architectural plans have been drawn up for its construction. At the Convention, one of these plans must be selected.   AB01694

From the very beginning of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in 'Ishqabad, Russia, day by day, everything has been in perfect harmony, until the believers there accomplished their aim, and it was built easily, for it was built by love. Now I hope that in America it will be the same as in Russia, and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar there be erected by the power of the union and love existing among the believers.  AB10289

"Today in America no matter is greater for the elevation of the Word of God than the Mashrak-el-Azkar. Surely give it the utmost importance. I am always waiting that a good report regarding the Mashrak-el-Azkar should come. In most of the cities of Persia, even in some villages, a Mashrak-el-Azkar has been founded. Now the beloved in America must make effort to establish one Mashrak-el-Azkar."  AB04045

Indeed the day hath come whereon the divine edifice, the merciful sanctuary and the spiritual Temple must be raised in America. For this is the first House of Worship that shall be established in those regions for the commemoration of His praise -- a praise which shall reach the Kingdom of divine mysteries. And from that Temple shall be heard the anthems of glorification throughout all regions.   AB03826

A very large Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will be built on the summit of Mount Carmel where the recitation of verses and the chanting of prayers will bring the spirits of the listeners to delight and the souls of the yearning ones to excitement. The singing of the singers there in that light-filled Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will cause tumult, joy, gladness, and delight in the hearts of the righteous and the good.  ABU0288

The most important thing now in America is the building of the Temple. You and your friends must endeavour in this matter. This building will be the cause of the confirmation of the believers. It has a great effect because it is the beginning of the foundation. After centuries it is not so important as it is now, but now it is very important. At first they build the Temple and worship in it and grow.  ABU1632

This news, in truth, brought forth such joy to the hearts as is impossible to describe or recount, for it hath conjured the image of that noble group carrying the stones in the utmost humility and meekness, yet with honour greater than that of the kings of the world. They are engaged in physical labour in the Mash_riqu'l-Adh_kar, carrying the earth and offering it as a gift to the Threshold of Oneness   AB00694

We bid him to undertake - as a manifestation of service to the Cause and for the perpetuation of his name in the manifest world - that he should, with the utmost discretion, appoint a representative who would construct in the Prison Land an edifice named Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and beside it a place for the righteous. This will benefit him in every world among the worlds of his Lord, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH01862

As to the matter of the Mashrekol-Azkar, it is of the most important affairs. Relaxation therein is not permissible. Verily, I shall write to the Easts of the earth and to its Wests and urge them to assist the Mashrekol-Azkar. Concentrate thou thy thought in the service of the Mashrekol-Azkar under all conditions so that thou mayest obtain confirmations and assistance under all conditions and circumstances.  AB00643

Miss Boylan said Abdul-Baha replied that he had fulfilled that prophecy by building the Tomb of the Bab. He said the Tomb of the Bab on Mount Carmel was the first Mashrekol-Azkar, and that Temple is already built. The one is Ishkabad is a radiation from that first one. The one in Chicago will be another radiation. In future there will be many all over the world, all radiating from the central Mashrekol-Azkar.   ABU2556

I send you the glad tidings of the erection of the Mashrak-el-Azkar (the Bahai Temple) in Ishkabad, with all joy and great happiness. The friends of God assembled together with rejoicing and conveyed the stones themselves, upon their backs, while attracted by the love of God and for the Glory of God. Soon that great Temple will be completed and the voice of prayer and praise shall ascend to the Sublime Kingdom.   AB06537

if you could arrange for that great plot of land to have all its transactions completely finalized in the government registry - meaning all eight plots would be registered in the name of the Temple, or if eight plots is not possible, then the four middle plots would have their transactions finalized in the government registry in the name of the Temple and we would proceed with constructing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   AB11873

O thou who art attracted to the Covenant! Praise be to God that thou hast made thy home a nest and shelter for the birds of the meadow, transformed it into a rose-garden of oneness, and established it as a gathering place for those who are detached, so that at dawn and daybreak it may become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar where lights will shine forth and the melody of prayer and supplication will be raised to the Abha Kingdom.  AB09505

The Mashrak-el-Azkar will be like a beautiful bouquet. The central lofty edifice will have nine sides surrounded be nine avenues interlacing none gardens where nine fountains will play. There will be none gateways and columns and the nine will also be carried out in the galleries and dome. The mystery of this edifice is great and cannot be unveiled yet, but its erection is the most important undertaking in this day.   ABU1581

Among the most important affairs is the founding of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was founded in 'Ishqabad its clamour affected all the cities of the Orient and caused souls to awaken (to the call). This organization of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will be a pattern for the coming centuries and will hold the station of the mother and thus later in other cities many Mashriqu'l-Adhkars will be its offspring.  AB07815

Several years ago, mention was made of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in the letter of Mirza Asadu'llah which he wrote to this servant, and thou thyself wert also in agreement with him in this matter. The House of Worship was previously built in Mosul, and the Land of Kha also intended [to build one], and the Sun of Permission hath risen from the Most Holy Court for [its construction] in certain lands if they proceed with wisdom  BH01006

You had inquired concerning the financial question of the Mashrekol-Azkar fund for purposes different from those that pertain to the Temple is not permissible and conversely the teaching fund is not to be used for Mashrekol-Azkar purposes. Both should be used in their own respective spheres. If it is not done accordingly matters will be completely upset. The future should be taken into consideration and not the present.  AB02219

For instance, regarding the matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar which was revealed in the Most Holy Book and whose ordinance hath been put into effect in that land and hath been accepted - if it should cause commotion and excitement among the evil-doers, its prevention and suspension are permissible. This matter hath been mentioned that all may know that wisdom, in the presence of the Throne, taketh precedence over all things.  BH00123

"In these times the utmost hope and wish of the friends of the West is the erection of the Mashrak-el-Azkar and in those regions the materials for construction and building are expensive and costly; a large sum of money is needed for the building...Therefore, the friends of God must arise in every part of the world to raise contributions and with their hearts and souls strive to gather these funds to be sent to the Occident"  AB00405

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is circular in shape. It has nine paths, nine gardens, nine pools with fountains and nine gates. Each path will lead to a center such as an orphanage, a hospital, a school, a university and other buildings that are dependencies of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. In the building there will be an organ, balconies and a rostrum especially for prayers and devotional programs but addresses may be given there as well.  ABU2854

That is why Baha'u'llah has commanded that a place of worship be built for all the religionists of the world; that all religions, races and sects may come together within its universal shelter; that the proclamation of the oneness of mankind shall go forth from its open courts of holiness -- the announcement that humanity is the servant of God and that all are submerged in the ocean of His mercy. It is the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  ABU0268

The Mashrak-el-Azkar will be erected and hundreds of such structures in due season. It is not a favor to contribute but a blessing to be allowed to give to such purpose... The Mashrak-el-Azkar in Ishqabad has proved to be a great aid to the Cause and so it shall be in America. Wherever the heart of a Believer sincerely worships there is a Mashrak-el-Azkar, but with the growth of the Cause the outward Temple is also necessary.  ABU1785

The purpose is this: that according to the divine law, the place for common worship and recitation of verses is none other than the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. It abrogateth all the previous gatherings and assemblages of worship. The loved ones of God must, to the extent possible, assist with the expenses of this gathering, until such time when, God willing, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar shall be established with the utmost majesty and dominion.  AB01546

O people of the world! Build ye houses of worship throughout the lands in the name of Him Who is the Lord of all religions. Make them as perfect as is possible in the world of being, and adorn them with that which befitteth them, not with images and effigies. Then, with radiance and joy, celebrate therein the praise of your Lord, the Most Compassionate. Verily, by His remembrance the eye is cheered and the heart is filled with light.  BH00001

When the foundation of the Mashre-kol-Azkar is laid in America, and that divine edifice is completed, a most wonderful and thrilling motion will appear in the world of existence. The Mashre-kol-Azkar will become the center around which all these universal Bahai activities will be clustered. From that point of light, the spirit of teaching, spreading the Cause of God and promoting the teachings of God will permeate to all parts of the world.  ABU0213

Several plans and designs of the Mashrak-el-Azkar have been received from America. Now the believers must display endeavor so that the land may be bought in its entirety; then collect contributions for the building, and then they may think about the plans. So far the means are lacking. I hope from the favor of the True One that sufficient and ample contribution may be gathered and afterward the best and most acceptable plans be decided upon.   AB05544

Indeed you spare no effort in this respect and I entertain the hope that this endeavour may grow day by day. Deeds are like unto trees; for to plant a shrub is no difficult matter while the care necessary for its growth and yielding fruit is hard and difficult. So far effort was expended to lay the foundation of the Temple but now its erection and completion is a difficult matter and may hope is that the friends of God may be therein assisted.  AB01489

That house was considered among the sacred spots and reverence for it is an obligatory matter... Strive with complete determination, desire and importance to deliver that frequented house from the hands of strangers and make it the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of the righteous... even as in other lands the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar caused the fire of God's love to blaze, created great enthusiasm and delight in hearts, and bestowed divine glad-tidings upon souls.   AB00812

It has been two or three years since a number of people have been making efforts in Chicago, but this has not yet yielded results, and important persons are exerting themselves and seeking contributions from various quarters. Now, while the construction of this Temple has not yet begun or been undertaken, if the founding of a second Temple were to be attempted, neither of the two would be accomplished and this failure would weaken the Cause of God.  AB11085

Now all the believers must become united so that the Temple may be built soon in one place, for should (the believers) undertake (the erection of the Temple) in many places, it will not become completed anywhere. And, as in Chicago they have preceded every other place to plan the erection of the Temple, undoubtedly, to co-operate and help them is nobler and a necessity. Then, when it is built in one place, it will become erected in many other places.  AB07833

Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar about which you wrote - if it becomes possible to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Washington, it would be most appropriate and the cause of complete divine confirmation. Therefore, think about preparing and arranging the resources for its construction. The design of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Ishqabad is available - they have sent it. It would do no harm if you draw other designs in the same style and send them here.   AB05190

In those places where they have no Mashrak-el-Azkar they rent a house and call it by that name. Today the Mashrak-el-Azkar in Chicago has great importance. All the Bahais must turn their faces in that direction. Why is it so important? Because it has become known throughout the East and the West that the Bahais wish to build a Mashrak-el-Azkar. It has found great importance. All ears are waiting for news coming from Chicago about the Mashrak-el-Azkar.   ABU0341

As to the matter of the building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, that is, the matter of beginning the building thereof: A considerable sum of money must decidedly be prepared in order that work may be begun; that is, at least two or three hundred thousand dollars must be ready. And, most assuredly, if it be built in the Days of the Covenant, it will be more joyful and more heart-rejoicing; but this is difficult. Now be ye engaged in collecting contributions.  AB03930

His burial site is one of the holy places where a magnificent Mashriqu'l-Adhkar must be raised up. If possible, the actual arch of the royal palace should be restored and become the House of Worship. The auxiliary buildings of the House of Worship should likewise be erected there: the hospital, the schools and university, the elementary school, the refuge for the poor and indigent; also the haven for orphans and the helpless, and the travelers' hospice.  AB00002

O man! Pray in the mosque wherein the verses were revealed from thy Lord, and study Our verses therein with justice that thou mayest be among the successful ones. It is the first house wherein the Book was revealed, and therein did the men of the Holy Land believe, and these were indeed the foremost. It is truly a mosque that was founded upon thy Lord's decree with justice, and was formerly a Jewish house, and now the Holy Land is inscribed in God's Book.   BB00222

O Lord, O Lord! Aid Thy righteous servants to establish Houses of Worship throughout all lands, that the cry of glorification and magnification may ascend to the Kingdom of Mysteries, and that the voice of sanctification and celebration, rising from these gatherings of the righteous, may reach the ears of the Concourse on High. Ordain for every soul who strives in this mighty matter what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones in Thy most glorious Kingdom.   AB00327

The importance of the Mashreq 'Ul-Azkar cannot be confined within any measure or limit, because it is the first divine institution in that vast continent, and from this Mashreq 'Ul-Azkar which is now in the process of construction, a hundred-thousand Mashreq 'Ul-Azkars will be born in the future. Therefore, it is very important. As its cost of construction, however, will amount to a huge sum of money, its construction cannot be accomplished in a short time.  AB01884

Dr. Esslemont spoke of a Tablet in which it said only the Words of Baha'u'llah were to be read in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. "Does this mean that the Words of the Bab and 'Abdu'l-Baha are not to be read?" ... "There is no harm in it. But the essential thing is the reading of the Words of Baha'u'llah. The Prayers of His Holiness the Bab are also good. If it becomes necessary to have an explanation of some topic that comes up, they may refer to the Words of 'Abdu'l-Baha."  ABU1815

Four great, mighty, and exalted tablets shall be placed on the four sides of the Temple, the seat of the Throne, at the height of one person's stature, containing the Visitation of God that was revealed from the tongue of His grandeur. Golden lines upon crystal in whatever manner is suitable and beautiful upon crystal, such that the words may be removed through chemical components or written with pure liquid gold, or in whatever other manner the craftsmanship may require.  A02490

Now the work on the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has become somewhat difficult - a sum is needed to construct the dome but nothing is available...for this is the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar established in the world. It is of great importance and significance in the sight of God. Each of its bricks and stones equals the construction of a mighty palace in the path of God, for this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is now the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God and the greatness of the Cause of God.  AB12233

As for what was written regarding the handmaiden of God, the wife of Aqa Muhammad Hasan, upon both of them be the glory of God, that she hath confined herself to serving the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar - these matters were submitted before His presence. This is what the Tongue of Grandeur spoke, blessed and exalted be His words: "We make mention of Our handmaiden who hath believed in God and His signs, and hath attained to serving the House built in His name, the Mighty, the Wondrous."   BH00261

The meaning is this that in every place first a Mashrak-el-azkar must be founded; then a School for the education of orphan children and the poor; then the Hospital and Medical Dispensary must be founded; then the Home of the Cripple; then the College of Higher Scientific Education. In every city a great Mashrak-el-azkar must be founded after this order. Now we hope the Mashrak-el-azkar may be founded in Chicago. After its foundation the important accessories may gradually be founded.   AB03154

Concerning the erection of the Temple: Now all the believers must become united, so that the Temple may be built soon in one place. For should (the believers) undertake (the erection of the Temple) in many places, it will not become completed anywhere; and as in Chicago they have preceded every other place to plan the erection of the Temple, undoubtedly to co-operate and help them is nobler and a necessity. Then, when it is built in one place, it will become erected in many other places.  AB00351

"Now, through this inspiration, the friends in all places are planning to build likewise, when it is possible. By founding the Mashrekol-azkar in the world the wonderful signs of God become manifest and evident. One must be built in every place, even though it be only a house or one rented room, if necessary, under the earth. It is very important to establish the Mashrekol-azkar of God, so that the friends may gather and become engaged in the commemoration of God. This has great importance."  ABU1035

While thou wert in the Holy Land, the plans for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar were drawn up, consisting of nine iterations of nine, which thou didst take with thee. Now, in the same manner that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is being erected in 'Ishqabad, send forth several copies of that plan to Ibn-i-Abhar, because out of the bounties and favours of the Abha Beauty and the holy confirmations of the Lord, people in all regions are considering establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, but they do not know its design.  AB03507

Concerning what you wrote about making the house wherein dwelt the Most Great Bab - may the spirit of all who dwell in the Kingdom of Names be sacrificed for Him - a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, this was most acceptable in the Divine Presence, and He said, exalted be His glory: "It is considered in God's sight as the most exalted of houses, and it is more worthy than other houses for this most glorious and impregnable station. However, all must act in such a way as not to cause disturbance to devoted souls."  BH00526

In the deduction of our necessary expenses, are contributions to the Mashriq'u'l Adhkar, Teaching and other activities of the Cause considered as part of Huquq or should they be taken separately? A.B. replied that Huquq was separate and independent of these and came first. After that had been determined then the other affairs could be looked after. He smiled and said when Huquq is given Abdu'l Baha will ascertain how much of it is for the Mashriq'u'l Adhkar, how much for teaching and how much for the needy, etc.  ABU0849

The model of the Mashrekol-Azkar made by Mr. Bourgeois was approved by his honor, Mr. Remey, and selected by the Convention. The model of the Mashrekol-Azkar is, however, too big. It needs several millions of dollars for the cost (of construction). If possible, Mr. Bourgeois may reproduce the same model on a smaller scale, so that one million dollars may suffice for its construction. This should be reconsidered only if possible. Thy services to the Mashrekol-Azkar are accepted at the Threshold of the Most Great One.   AB04992

This delightful spot is worthy of this edifice and building. However, it must be enlarged yet a little more, so that spacious ground around the Mashrak-el-Azkar may afford ample room for a rose garden. The Mashrak-el-Azkar, though outwardly a material foundation, is possessed of spiritual effect and causes the union of hearts and the gathering of souls. In the days of the Manifestation, any city, wherein a Temple was founded, afforded the means of promulgation and the confirmation of hearts and the confidence of souls.  AB00963

The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is the dawning place of lights and the gathering place of the righteous and noble.  When heavenly gatherings are held therein, devotions are offered, divine verses are intoned in wondrous voices and prayers are chanted, the inhabitants of the Concourse on High hearken unto them and cry out with the call of "blessed, blessed are ye!" that, praise be unto God, in the lower realm, angels from Kingdom of Glory have arisen to pray and supplicate and to intone the verses of Divine Unity in a holy gathering.  AB12080

The account of the land designated for the Mashrak-el-Azcar, of your placing therein, in company with Mrs. . . . . . . . ., nine stones and pouring thereon attar, water and olive oil, and of your commemorating the Beauty of ABHA and His Holiness the Supreme, was all understood. That land is blessed because it is mentioned by the name of Mashrak-el-Azcar. Surely, the beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in all the cities of America must put forth the utmost of effort in order that the Mashrak-el-Azcar be raised in that land.   AB04644

When you arrive in Shiraz, I will give you the complete instructions [for the rebuilding of the House of the Bab]. This task entrusted to you is the most important of all services and worthy of the greatest reward before the Divine Court. Truly, future kings and monarchs will long to have been present on this day and been numbered among the servants and attendants of that Sanctified Threshold. He then proceeded to give instructions on the way to receive visitors and pilgrims at the House of the Bab and how to conduct the management of its affairs.  ABU3679

At present it is clearly evident that if it were to be established, it would become a cause of provocation to the oppressors. Therefore, it would be better if an undisclosed location were designated where the loved ones of God might gather by chance and engage in worship, prayer and the chanting of verses. And if contributions are collected for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, send those contributions now to the House of Blessing in Ishqabad, so that when an opportune time arrives with no impediments, those funds may be used to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB11478

For Karbila'i Muhammad-Hadi, the caretaker of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and his relatives, I pray with utmost humility and lowliness at the threshold of the Lord for confirmation, as he is engaged in a service that brings nearness to the court of the Most Great. Likewise convey my utmost longing to Mr. Ibrahim and Mr. Yusuf Kalimi, the two great caretakers of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. They are my partners and associates in this service. Mr. Yahuda and his sons and relatives who serve the House of Worship are also watchmen with this servant at this threshold.   AB00185

The glad tidings of the near completion of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, the arrangement of its gardens, and the imminent flow of its fountains have brought infinite joy. In truth, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will be most spiritual, fragrant, and pure. The solidity and grace of the edifice, the fine arrangement of its avenues, the design of its flowers, the gushing of its fountains, the blossoming of its trees, the purity of its air, and the sweetness of its vistas shall all be combined to form a paradise of utmost purity. Indeed, it shall become peerless and unrivaled.  AB06680

Regarding the Holy House in Fars, Shiraz - all the friends are in extreme agitation, and two months ago they collectively wrote requesting attention to the matter of the Blessed House, in such a way that I realized if I were to send a copy to you it would cause great sorrow, so I did not send it. However, you must make a mighty effort in this matter, for this House affair is extremely important - its importance is beyond description. Either you or one of your children must absolutely be there. It cannot be entrusted to a woman, even if she would protect it.   AB00337

Today in the forefront of all urgent affairs is the building of a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, that at dawn-tide and in the early morn, souls may devote themselves to the praise and glorification of the loving Lord, thus gaining endless joy and peace. If in some area the public raising up of a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar should prove unwise, that is, should it provoke the alarms, the protests and attacks of evil-doers, then by all means let it be established in some hidden place, and even underground. This matter is most weighty; it is an obligation laid without exception upon all the believers.  AB09922

The church, the synagogue, the mosque will continue to exist as a house of public worship - Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. Even every private person may in his house make an appropriate room into a private place of worship for the joint edification of friends and acquaintances among the Baha'is. The Blessed Perfection (Baha'u'llah) has ordained in the Kitab-i-Aqdas that there should not be any pictures, portraits, statues put up in the places of worship, but only inscriptions, verses, mystic monograms and numerical symbols, arabesques, ornaments, wall-hangings, carpets, beautiful vases, incense burners etc.  ABU0200

You had praised and extolled the luminosity of that gathering. In truth, the convention of delegates in Chicago was a heavenly assembly, confirmed by divine confirmations. A ray from the Abha Kingdom was manifested and a life-giving breeze wafted from the direction of grace. It was a glimpse of the effulgence of the Sun of Truth that the divine friends gathered in that luminous assembly in utmost love, unity and oneness. Through the power of divine confirmation, the purpose of all was to serve the Cause of God, to manifest servitude at the Divine Threshold, and to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.  AB01012

Explain to the people the details of the Mashrak-el-Azkar in Chicago and tell them how contributions are received from the East and the West. For example, at this moment four contributions were received in one day from Rangoon, Bombay (India), Jahram of Shiraz and Kheirol-Gora of Khorassan for the Mashrak-el-Azkar of America and were forwarded to their destination. Truly, I say, the friends of God displayed wonderful generosity in regard to the contributions for the Mashrak-el-Azkar. They displayed magnanimity at any cost to such an extent that some of them sold portions of their clothing on the streets.  AB05281

The Mashrak-el-Azcar is the most important matter and the greatest divine institute. Consider how the first institute of His Holiness Moses, after His exodus from Egypt, was the "Tent of Martyrdom" which He raised and which was the traveling Temple. It was a tent which they pitched in the desert, wherever they abode, and worshipped in it. Likewise, after His Holiness Christ--may the spirit of the world be a sacrifice to Him!--the first institute by the disciples was a Temple. They planned a church in every country. Consider the Gospel (read it) and the importance of the Mashrak-el-Azcar will become evident.  AB03118

"The establishment thereof is the greatest service to the Holy Threshold and the greatest instrument for drawing nigh unto the gate of the Most Glorious Lord. Should such a structure be built in that city, it shall become an everlasting sign, and the cause of glorification by the inmates of the Abha Kingdom and the gladdening of the hearts of the Concourse on High--for now is the beginning of its establishment, but in the future many individuals shall, with hearts and souls full of joy, arise for this highly acceptable undertaking and, by these means, seek to draw nigh unto the Threshold of the Lord of all beings."   AB12077

How self-sacrificing he was in the rearing of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar! He completely dedicated his life until he succeeded in establishing the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in that land. This service was extremely great, for this is the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar that hath, in the name of God, been reared in the world, and it therefore hath great importance. In the future, however, a hundred thousand Mashriqu'l-Adhkars shall be reared with the utmost glory, dignity, and majesty. This Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of 'Ishqabad hath the station of the mother, and the other Mashriqu'l-Adhkars are like unto children that shall be born from it.   AB11810

Guide the friends in Sangsar to joy and gladness, for they wear upon their heads a crown of eternal bounty and are thinking of establishing a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and I hope they will be successful in this. The friends in Shahmirzad, praise be to God, are free and are manifestations of the favors of the Lord of all beings. Indeed, in purchasing land for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar the friends of Sangsar and Shahmirzad showed the utmost effort, evident and manifest, for some mortgaged their own property to be able to contribute, and they vied with each other in this. This service is highly acceptable at the threshold of the Divine Unity.  AB12139

I testify that thou wert the first to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and raise its beacon so that the righteous might supplicate therein to the Kingdom of Mysteries. Thou didst exert the utmost effort until thou built, with a determination that could move mountains, an edifice of firm foundations. That luminous dome became renowned throughout the earth like the sun at high noon. Thou didst spend all that God had bestowed upon thee in this path and established this majestic temple, carrying earth and stones thyself among the righteous in humility before the Kingdom of Mysteries, until thou completed the noblest of Houses of Worship.  AB00277

The consultative spiritual assembly, as well as the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, are of great import and have beneficial consequences. Insofar as possible, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar should remain fixed in a single location, for to move it from place to place, without wisdom and in the absence of dire necessity, would lead to despondency. The loved ones of God must, of a certainty, attach the utmost significance to both of these institutions, for in these days they have become extremely important and are absolutely obligatory. In any village in which even two of the friends reside, a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar must be designated, even if it be established beneath the ground, in order that its goodly effects may be witnessed in the future.  AB11146

Verily the founding of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will mark the inception of the Kingdom of God on earth. It is the evident standard waving in the center of that great continent of America. Should the believers undertake (the erection of the Temple) in many places, it will not become completed anywhere; and as in Chicago they have preceded every other place to plan the erection of the Temple, undoubtedly to cooperate and help them is nobler and a necessity. Then when it is built in one place it will become erected in many other places. God willing, in all the states of America in the future there will be erected Temples, with infinite architectural beauty, with pleasing proportions and handsome and attractive appearances.  ABU1892

'Abdu'l-Baha hath long cherished the desire that a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar be upraised in that region. Praised be God, thanks to the strenuous efforts of the friends, in recent days the joyful news of this hath been announced. This service is highly acceptable at the Threshold of God, for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar inspiriteth the lovers of God and delighteth their hearts, and causeth them to become steadfast and firm. This is a matter of the utmost significance. If the erection of the House of Worship in a public place would arouse the hostility of evil-doers, then the meeting must, in every locality, be held in some hidden place. Even in every hamlet, a place must be set aside as the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, and even though it be underground.  AB06420

In that most distant region, that luminous land, that exalted quarter, the capital of the province of Kha, he sacrificed all his worldly possessions and, together with the loved ones, established a lofty edifice in that spacious city. He was the first to establish the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar on the face of the earth - a structure that drew all eyes, founded on piety in that vast expanse. He himself engaged in its construction, carrying stones morning and evening. Neither the weakness of his bones, nor the whiteness of his hair, nor his bent back, nor his frail frame prevented him from hauling earth and water and bearing heavy loads, until its foundations were laid, its structure raised, and its parts perfectly joined, crowned with a radiant dome whose light shone far and wide.  AB00133

"The Temple of Ishkabad is unique in that it is the first temple of the kind that has been erected. Many such temples shall be constructed in the future, but this one will ever enjoy this unique privilege and preference. When its accessories are completed and its full machinery starts running, when the melody of vocal and instrumental music arises and bursts upon the air with its joyous trends, when the prayers and supplications addressed at dawn and at sunrise ascend to the Throne of the Almighty, then will the effect of the Mashrekol-Azkar be made evident and manifest. The Temple that is going to be erected in the United States will be an important and magnificent one, its influence and reaction upon the Cause will be tremendous, and the impetus it shall give to the movement, irresistible."  ABU1905


The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is one of the most vital institutions in the world, and it hath many subsidiary branches. Although it is a House of Worship, it is also connected with a hospital, a drug dispensary, a traveller's hospice, a school for orphans, and a university for advanced studies. Every Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is connected with these five things. My hope is that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will now be established in America, and that gradually the hospital, the school, the university, the dispensary and the hospice, all functioning according to the most efficient and orderly procedures, will follow. Make these matters known to the beloved of the Lord, so that they will understand how very great is the importance of this 'Dawning-Point of the Remembrance of God.' The Temple is not only a place for worship; rather, in every respect is it complete and whole.   AB00802

"Verily, the greatest affair and the most important matter today is to establish a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and to found a Temple, from which the voices of praise may rise to the Kingdom of the majestic Lord." "When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is completed, when the lights are emanating therefrom, and the righteous assemble therein, when prayers are offered to the Kingdom of divine mysteries and the voice of glorification is raised to the Supreme Lord, then shall the believers rejoice, and their hearts be dilated, overflowing with the love of the ever-living and self-subsisting God. The people shall hasten to worship in that heavenly Temple, the fragrance of God will be diffused, the Divine Teachings will take root in the hearts like unto the establishment of the spirit in the souls of men and the people will stand firm in the Cause of your Lord, the All-Merciful."  AB02812

The Temple of Eskabad is unique in that it is the first Temple of the kind that has been erected. Many such temples shall be constructed in the future but this one will ever enjoy this unique privilege and preference. When its accessories are completed and its full machinery starts running, when the melody of vocal and instrumental music arises and rends the air with its joyous trends, when the prayers and supplications addressed at dawn and at sunrise ascend to the throne of the Almighty,-then will the effect of the Mashrakol-Azkar be made evident and manifest. The Temple that is going to be erected in the United States will be an important and magnificent one, its influence and reaction upon the Cause will be tremendous and the impetus it shall give to the Movement irresistible. Soon shall the city of Teheran witness the laying of the foundation of the Temple of Worship, for restrictions have been removed and hindrances eliminated.   ABU2266

The other nations have hundreds of thousands of temples, the Christians having as any as a million temples of the greatest structural importance. What result have they yielded, that now this one Mashrak-el-Azkar is said to cause the manifestation of signs and prove a source of light! Among the differences are these: In the other temples superstitions hold and the Reality is missing. Furthermore, today, the establishment of the Mashrak-el-Azkar is of paramount importance, but hereafter it shall not be so. This is the beginning of organization. It is like unto the first church founded in Christianity. It is an expression of the elevation of the Word of God. When the Mashrak-el-Azkar was erected in Ishkabad, its influence was felt in all the Oriental countries. Whosoever heard of it commenced an investigation of the Cause. Now the Mashrak-el-Azkar of Ishkabad like an evident banner waves in the world. And if in Chicago the Mashrak-el-Azkar is established, even in Ishkabad, then you will see what the recognition of the Cause will do.  ABU1041

Among the most important affairs is the founding of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, although weak minds may not grasp its importance: nay, perchance, they imagine this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar to be a temple like other temples. They may say to themselves: Every nation has a hundred thousand gigantic temples; what result have they yielded, that now this one Mashriqu'l-Adhkar (is said) to cause the manifestation of signs and prove a source of light? But they are ignorant of the fact that the founding of this Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is to be in the inception of the organization of the Kingdom. Moreover, the accessories of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar are numerous. Among them are the school for orphans, the great college for the higher arts, hospital, home for the cripples, and hospice. The doors of these places are to be opened to all sects-no differentiations. When these accessories are completed, and, by God's help and aid, the departments fully systematized, it will be proved that the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar is to human society a great bounty and a great blessing.  AB00512


Thousands of Mashriqu'l-Adhkars, dawning points of praise and mention of God for all religionists will be built in the East and in the West, but this, being the first one erected in the Occident, has great importance. In the future there will be many here and elsewhere -- in Asia, Europe, even in Africa, New Zealand and Australia -- but this edifice in Chicago is of especial significance. It has the same importance as the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in Ishqabad, Caucasus, Russia, the first one built there. In Persia there are many; some are houses which have been utilized for the purpose, others are homes entirely devoted to the divine Cause, and in some places temporary structures have been erected. In all the cities of Persia there are Mashriqu'l-Adhkars, but the great dawning point was founded in Ishqabad.... It is centrally located, nine avenues leading into it, nine gardens, nine fountains; all the arrangement and construction is according to the principle and proportion of the number nine.   ABU1153

It is possible, if there be no need for the other institutions, to have just the Mashrak-el-Azcar, without the other accessories, -- if there be no need for it in the community. That should be looked after.   ABU3250
