
God has created man in a high position, he is distinguished from all other creatures; is created in God's image, but man leaves this majestic gift and great station to run away and play with the dust of the Earth.  ABU2885

The Old Testament says that God created man like unto His own image; in the Qur'an it says: "There is no difference in the Creation of God!"  ABU1891


God created man after His own image and likeness  ABU1979

At all times I implore the divine Kingdom to make your heart a pure, delicate, polished mirror facing the Abha Kingdom so that the images of the Supreme Concourse may be reflected in it. This is the meaning of the verse in the Torah "Let us create man in our image, after our likeness."  AB01212

The reality of man is a niche of light and a glass of revelation.  AB11194

The Supreme Lord has deposited within human reality a most great sign   AB06355

Man is created in the Image of the Lord of Mercy, that is, Divine Character.  AB11116

so that the lights of the Kingdom may be reflected in the mirror of the human world   AB07234

Man is created in the image of the Merciful [God], that is, with divine attributes.   AB11515

They must become radiant beings, shining stars, luminous persons and angels of heaven.   ABU2614

I testify that Thou wert hidden in God's knowledge and inscribed in His perspicuous Book.   BH05228

Man, who is the sign of the All-Merciful and the manifestation of the favors of the Lord God  AB07108

Characterize thyself with the characteristics of God, and thou shalt know the spiritual life!   ABU3586

Every being has one reality, except for man who has both a natural reality and a spiritual reality  ABU3022

God created man in the utmost perfection, for He inscribed the edict of the divine likeness on his brow.  AB09553

God has created man in a high position, he is distinguished from all other creatures; is created in God's image  ABU2885

and it is the perfections which are the great gift for the child of Adam (i.e., mankind) in this first creation  AB09125

Through the Love of God, the Knowledge of God, the spiritual susceptibilities, and the attractions of the heart.   ABU2011

Then man will make real discoveries, penetrate the mysteries and so reflect them that he will become the image of God  ABU1801

You are made in the image and likeness of God. Your birthright is more valuable than all the treasures of the empires.  ABU0686

Man is endowed with superior reasoning power and the faculty of perception. He is the manifestation of divine bestowals.  ABU0016


Inasmuch as all were created in the image of God, we must bring ourselves to realize that all embody divine possibilities.  AB11278

He created man in the finest mold and with a noble form and majestic temple among the infinite forms in the realm of being   AB05455

God manifested His Love by creating man in His Own Image. Man must manifest the Love of God by developing it in that Image.   ABU2768


Though the human being is created from a handful of dust, He has deposited within this shell a pearl of infinite brightness and luminosity  AB10472


When in the course of evolution the stage of thought and reason has been reached, the human mind acts as a mirror reflecting the glory of God.   ABU0343

The Almighty has destined for him eternal life, spiritual existence, the perfections of the divine world and the virtues of the celestial realm.  ABU2385

God created human beings in human form so that they might possess divine attributes and characteristics, not the movements and manners of wild beasts.   ABU1974

He made the human temple His sacred throne and made the human horizon the dawning-place of His manifest light. "We have created man in the best of forms."   AB12097

"I was in My Ancient Being and My Eternal Essence; I knew My love for thee, therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty."   BH00359

On the other hand, although man was created in the image and likeness of God and was destined to become the perfect, clear mirror, reflecting the rays of divinity  ABU1228

This is what is meant where it is written in the Bible that 'We have created man in our own image.' The perfect man is the visage and image of God, just as the mirror reflects the sun.  ABU0089

That everlasting palace is the reality of man which reality is indestructible. Therefore I am searching throughout the world to find men and women in which the divine palace is completed. In the heart of every man and woman the construction of this heavenly palace is going on. Praiseworthy deeds and philanthropic actions are the materials with which the palace is built. Vices and the degeneracy of morality are the axes with which the very foundation of this eternal palace laid by the hand of God is uprooted. ABU1870

God has created man after His own image; therefore He has created his condition to be divine, and his real happiness, cheerfulness, wealth, dominion and power, must all be of divine origin   ABU1711

Though all human beings are adorned with the garment of humanity, they remain unaware of its reality. This universal gift is manifested in human reality, yet man remains heedless and forgetful.   AB05610

becomes a dawning-place of bounties, and a dayspring of the lights of "God created Adam in His image and likeness" - that is, he becomes a divine image and a manifestation of heavenly bounties.   AB00146

God created in us a divine holy spirit,--the human spirit with its intellectual powers which are above the powers of nature. By this he enjoys the ecstasies of the spirit and sees the world illumined.  ABU0162


When we examine the world and the souls of men, the perspicuous signs of the perfections of the Divinity appear clear and manifest, for the realities of all things attest to the existence of a universal Reality.  AB00395

so that the divine trust deposited in human reality might become manifest, human souls might become manifestations of divine favors, and humankind might attain, as stated in the Torah, the image and likeness of God.  ABU0223



"Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." This indicates that man is of the image and likeness of God -- that is to say, the perfections of God, the divine virtues, are reflected or revealed in the human reality."  ABU0573


And when it says "Let us create man in Our image" - what is meant is the image of the divine names and attributes, as the Divine Essence is sanctified from material forms and is exalted above and free from similitudes and likenesses.  ABU2591

The All-loving God created man to radiate the Divine light and to illumine the world by his words, action and life. If he is without virtue he becomes no better than a mere animal, and an animal devoid of intelligence is a vile thing.  ABU0665

The Lord of the worlds declareth in the mighty Qur'an: "Ye have indeed in the Messenger of God a beautiful pattern." This meaneth that following the Example of Beauty and emulating that true Exemplar is the cause of deliverance in both worlds.   AB00322


As it is stated in the Torah, Let Us make man in our image and after Our likeness. Thus it is established and certain that true man is the image and likeness of God; in other words, he is the recipient of the outflow of all the divine perfections.  ABU0179

Consider carefully until you perceive the proof which the All-Merciful has revealed in the Qur'an: He created man, taught him clear expression. This clear expression refers to the radiant reality and hidden mysteries deposited within human reality.  AB00102

What is the meaning of the image and likeness of God? It means that man will become the manifester of the names and attributes of the Deity; it means that all the perfections and luminosities of the Divine will shine upon the mirror of human beings.   ABU0447


"I knew My love for thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty." "With the hands of power I made thee and with the fingers of strength I created thee; and within thee have I placed the essence of My light."  BH00386

The station of man is great, very great. God has created man after His own image and likeness. He has endowed him with a mighty power which is capable of discovering the mysteries of phenomena. Through its use man is able to arrive at ideal conclusions instead of being restricted to the mere plane of sense impressions. As he possesses sense endowment in common with the animals, it is evident that he is distinguished above them by his conscious power of penetrating abstract realities. He acquires divine wisdom; he searches out the mysteries of creation; he witnesses the radiance of omnipotence; he attains the second birth -- that is to say, he is born out of the material world just as he is born of the mother; he attains to everlasting life; he draws nearer to God; his heart is replete with the love of God. This is the foundation of the world of humanity; this is the image and likeness of God; this is the reality of man; otherwise, he is an animal. Verily, God has created the animal in the image and likeness of man, for though man outwardly is human, yet in nature he possesses animal tendencies.  ABU0572

In the essence of man, the hand of divine bestowal hath deposited [a gift] whereby man may become the dawning-place of the verses of the All-Merciful, and human reality may acquire illumination from the Dayspring of Oneness, and the essence of Adam may become the light-giving lamp of the world.   AB05309

But the Almighty fashioned man in his own image and likeness for the [sake] of His Love, for drawing the lights of divine virtues, for the manifestation of the celestial power, for the appearance of the efficacy of the Holy Spirit and for the projection of the ideals names and qualities of Divinity.  ABU1560

A human being is distinguished from an animal in a number of ways. First of all, he is made in the image of God, in the likeness of the Supernal Light, even as the Torah saith, 'Let us make man in our image, after our likeness.' This divine image betokeneth all the qualities of perfection whose lights, emanating from the Sun of Truth, illumine the realities of men.   AB06380


It is written in the Bible: let us create man in our image and likeness. What does this mean? It means that the Reality of Divinity is the universal Collective Center of all the consummate Virtues. Now, the primal Intelligence - God - willed to create man and make him a "particular collective center" of all his own infinite virtues.  ABU0303

It is recorded in the Holy Bible that God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. It is self-evident that the image and likeness mentioned do not apply to the form and semblance of a human being because the reality of Divinity is not limited to any form or figure. Nay, rather, the attributes and characteristics of God are intended.  ABU0002

Thou hast chosen the human reality, which encompasses the mysteries of contingent being and proclaims the divine truth in the world of creation. Thou hast distinguished it from all other existence through the outpouring of divine vision, the hidden secret, and the protected symbol, making it a pure mirror reflecting the mysteries of what was and what will be  AB00978

When God created Adam he made for him a physical body, which is the material aspect of man, but he also conferred upon Adam his own image and likeness, for it is recorded in the Bible that man was made in the image and likeness of God. This signifies the divine attributes, not the outward form or figure. The divine attributes signifies the attributes and names of God, the virtues of God.   ABU0751

Notwithstanding these evident proofs, how heedless is man that he worships nature and considers himself its slave. Nevertheless, these individuals regard themselves as great philosophers. Gracious God! How heedless this is, how blind, that man should be unaware of the life of the Almighty and remain uninformed of the divine trust deposited within himself, and should be a captive of the world of nature.   ABU0255

How has a particle of clay attained to a station Thou hast made Thine own self, and Thou hast removed all distinction between it and Thyself, as though it were Thee?   BB00058

God has created man in His own image and likeness and endowed him with reasoning faculty, intellectual powers and cognitive sense. He has kneaded his original constitution with the water of holiness and sanctity; He has destined for him a life of celestial freedom, measureless and boundless; He has ordained for him the indefinable state of Blessedness; He has decreed for him the loftiest height of spirituality and illumination   ABU0812


He honored and distinguished man with the robe of honor - "We have created man in the best of forms" - and with the mantle of grace and favor - "Blessed be God, the most excellent of creators" - for while He revealed Himself to the essence and reality of each thing through one of His names and shone forth through one of His attributes, to man alone did He make the manifestation of all names and attributes and the mirror of His own Essence, distinguishing him with this supreme bounty and ancient mercy.   BH00690

