Do ye not witness that when ye place a mirror before the sun, the form of the sun is reflected therein, and when ye place it before a dog, that too is reflected therein? Thus observe how the matter stands regarding all that faces it, that ye may be steadfast in the religion of God.   BH00516

The souls of Believers are as mirrors which reflect the Light. Truth is like the light of a candle which does not vary, yet the candlestick which holds it may change. Each year the rose is the same beautiful flower although it appears in different gardens.  ABU2267

Bestow a heart like a pure and delicate mirror, that it may become illumined and radiant with the lights of Thy love, and inspire it with spiritual and divine intimations, that the world of existence may appear as the highest paradise.  AB11178

none should behold another save that he beholdeth in him the revelation wherewith Thou didst reveal Thyself unto him in this Manifestation   BH00970

Ye are the mirrors of My attributes - polish your hearts from the rust of vain imaginings.  BH08462

For example one of the virtues of God is Knowledge. He deposited a sign of this knowledge in the temple of man. Another virtue of God is life. He has conferred upon man a trace of this virtue. One of his virtues is power; he has made man powerful. He is the all-seeing, he has granted man the power of sight. Another virtue of Divinity is will-power, he has created within man a symbol of this all-comprehending power.  ABU0303

The Father is in the Son, and the Son is in you. It is evident that, when hearts are purified and through divine education and heavenly teachings become manifestors of infinite bounty, they are like clear mirrors.   AB00249

Consider how a mirror, when pure and free from the rust of defilement, is close to the sun, though there be a hundred thousand million miles between them. As soon as it attains purity and delicacy, the sun shines within that mirror. Likewise, when hearts become pure and delicate, they draw near to God  ABU0095

When the mirror is polished and is turned towards the sun, it can see the sun, that is, the effulgence of its rays, within itself. This doth not mean that the sun hath entered the mirror, for the sun remaineth at the zenith of its sanctity; it neither descendeth nor ascendeth.  AB06283

But there is a second theory which is correct and this is, the appearance - "standing within" - of the Sun in a clear mirror... Purify your heart that it may become like unto a transparent mirror. Then thou shalt find Me "standing within thee, Powerful, Mighty and Supreme."  ABU2024

He has placed the sign of His truth in every form, bringing forth within it infinite effulgences, and through that effulgence He has manifested Himself to all creation. Whoever has adopted the character of the spiritual ones and the exalted ones, that sign of effulgence has appeared in them, and they have witnessed in their hearts the mystery that He is nearer to you than your life-vein.  BH00377

The soul is the Sanctuary of God  ABU3609

The Bounty of God is within the heart  ABU3088

How has a particle of clay attained to a station Thou hast made Thine own self, and Thou hast removed all distinction between it and Thyself, as though it were Thee?   BB00058

The mirror must become clear from rust first then the sun with all its glory will be reflected therein.   ABU2257

May the mirrors of hearts be cleansed from dust in order that the Sun of Truth may be reflected therein.  ABU1360

He cast into the essence of all things His Own likeness, until He became known; and in all things there is a sign indicating that He is One. That description is the sign of the Lord and the reality of the servant. And this description has as many stations as there are breaths of creation. All souls are as mirrors, and He is manifest to the mirrors through the mirrors.  BB00098

The Book of God hath been manifest in the temple of man   BH08976

The Bounty of God is within the heart; it receives the Light  ABU3088

make your heart a pure, delicate, polished mirror facing the Abha Kingdom so that the images of the Supreme Concourse may be reflected in it  AB01212

pure hearts...are reflections one upon another and thus the one can discover the secrets of the other, because such hearts are only mirrors confronting each other on which the secrets of unity, affinity and concord are printed and reflected  AB07050

Through these successive evolutionary steps spirit develops characters having many Divine attributes. The positive, creative aspect of God is reflected in them. Individuality is derived from expression in individual form. Self-consciousness accompanies individualized character, and the being thus endowed has the potentiality of rising to the knowledge of God.... When in the course of evolution the stage of thought and reason has been reached, the human mind acts as a mirror reflecting the glory of God. The face of nature is illumined, the grass, the stones, the hills, and valleys shine; but they shine not of themselves, but because they reflect the rays of the sun. It is the sun which shines. In the same way, our minds reflect God.   ABU0343


The heart hath been the dawning-place of the lights of My countenance and the treasury of the pearls of My love.   BH10216

This transformation is made possible through the spiritual Power which is deposited in the heart [of] man by the hand of the Almighty. It is a Celestial Gift on the part of God to His own handiwork.  ABU0999

The light of Divine Guidance hath shone forth from the dawning-place of Divine Unity and enlightened the whole earth with the radiance of its vernal glory. It hath made the earth to be the envy of Heaven and the world of being to be the desire of the realms of the Placeless.  AB04343

All these attributes are the characteristics of the unchangeable individuality and are divine in origin. These qualifications are loved by all, for they are emanations of the father. They are the significance of his name and attributes, the direct ray of which illuminate the very essence of these qualifications.  ABU0384

Therefore, it is clear and evident that a holy power exists in man of which nature is deprived. Man possesses perfections and virtues which nature lacks. Man is progressing while nature remains in the same state. Man discovers secrets while nature is ignorant and unaware. Man is the founder of virtues while nature is the source of vices.   ABU0255

Yet he considers himself a noble philosopher. God forgive! Rather, he is a base philosopher. Man is of a station far more exalted, a sovereignty more firm, and a proof more glorious than nature, to which God has given no authority. O God! What is this great heedlessness and what is this profound stupidity that man should become oblivious of the Ever-Living, the Almighty, and be blind to the divine trust deposited within him through the holy outpouring of the Glorious Lord, allowing his mind to become captive and abject before nature!  AB00102

In truth, the praise of these servants has not been and is not worthy of the Concealed Mystery, the Hidden Secret, and the Protected Symbol. The path to the impenetrable Mystery is blocked and the quest rejected. However, praise, gratitude, mention and glorification are befitting of Him Who stands in the place of Truth, glorified be His Glory. He is the Dawning-Place of supreme attributes and the Dayspring of the Most Beautiful Names. Let them hear that verily He is in need of nothing from among all things, neither any mention from among mentions, nor any matter from among matters.   BH00917

God the Exalted said: "We shall show them Our signs in the horizons and within themselves until it becomes clear to them that it is the Truth."  And God the Exalted said in the Gospel: "Know thyself and thou shalt know thy Lord - thy outward is for annihilation and thy inward am I."  And the Messenger of God said: "He among you who best knows himself best knows his Lord."  And Ali, when asked by a bedouin about the higher realm, said: "Forms devoid of matter, free from potentiality and capacity, upon which He shone forth and they became illumined, and which He beheld and they became radiant. He cast into their essence His image, and thus His acts were manifested through them."  BB00098

This description, which nothing in creation resembleth, God made the way to know Him and the sign of His oneness, that the contingent might reach the ultimate outpouring possible in the contingent realm. God made this description the reality of the servant, and it is the Lordship of the Lord, exalted and glorified be He. It is His self [nafs] and heart [fu'ad]. God described Himself to everything through everything, and cast into the essence of everything His own likeness, until He became known; and in all things there is a sign indicating that He is One. That description is the sign of the Lord and the reality of the servant. And this description has as many stations as there are breaths of the creatures. All souls are as mirrors, and He is manifest to the mirrors through the mirrors. He is the One, the sign of God and His description. And for all things this soul exists - whoso knoweth it hath known his Lord. The meaning is that there is no way unto God except through recognition of this soul, which is the same as the recognition of the Lord, for a thing cannot be comprehended beyond its source. Whoso knoweth his own self through the attributes of his Creator knoweth Him, and that description is the description of the Lord - there is nothing like unto Him, and He is the Most Exalted, the Most Great.  BB00098


For example, one of God's names is the All-Bountiful - it is a sun in its station, shining upon the mirrors of all created things, and the lights of this radiance appear upon all things according to their capacity, as ye observe. And the effect of this sun is first witnessed in man, such that thou findest in every human being the effect of the manifestation of this name.  BH00011

Your hearts must be like mirrors brightly polished, which reflect the light of the One sun.  ABU1929

And I beseech Him to make thy breast a clear mirror to reflect the light of the Spirit of God  AB10184

The lights of spiritual realities lie hidden and concealed within human reality just as a ray lies within the essence of a candle.  AB06941

Today all pure realities and abstract essences are like moons that must derive their light from the Sun of God's Cause and the gleaming Star of God's Law   AB02037

The human temple is like unto a niche, and the heart is like unto a glass globe, and the love of God is like unto the light within that glass. When that lamp is ignited, the globe becometh illumined and the physical niche also becomes full of light and brilliance.  AB09527

becoming mirrors reflecting the Sun of the divine world  AB10334

All souls are as mirrors, and He is manifest to the mirrors through the mirrors. He is the One, the sign of God and His description. And for all things this soul exists - whoso knoweth it hath known his Lord. The meaning is that there is no way unto God except through recognition of this soul, which is the same as the recognition of the Lord, for a thing cannot be comprehended beyond its source. Whoso knoweth his own self through the attributes of his Creator knoweth Him, and that description is the description of the Lord - there is nothing like unto Him, and He is the Most Exalted, the Most Great.  BB00098

The souls of Believers are as mirrors which reflect the Light.  ABU2267

"the true picture is the one you take on the mirror of the heart"   ABU3065

my heart a pure and shining mirror reflecting the sun of Thy Beauty  AB07181

the face becomes the mirror reflecting the beauty of the All-Merciful  AB10057

as mentioned in the tradition "The believer is the mirror of the believer"   AB07594

Make then your hearts as mirrors wherein may be reflected the mysteries of God  BH07875

then make thy heart a mirror wherein this hidden and radiant Beauty may be reflected   BH03474

The more a mirror is polished, the more will the rays of the sun be reflected therein.  AB08680

And I beseech Him to make thy breast a clear mirror to reflect the light of the Spirit of God  AB10184

thy heart be made a clear mirror wherein are printed the Lights of the Kingdom of the earth and heaven  AB10249

The mirror must become clear from rust first then the sun with all its glory will be reflected therein.   ABU2257

that heart is the dawning-place of love for the Abha Beauty...What power has dust to affect that clear mirror  AB05594

Even as a mirror, the reality of man should be attuned to, partake of and benefit from the Revelation of God.   AB03914

the station wherein whosoever entereth will behold himself as a mirror of His beauty, the Mighty, the Wondrous.  BH03276


Therefore, give thanks unto God that thy pure heart was a polished mirror that became illumined with the lights of guidance  AB07677

for the friends of God are like mirrors - the rays of the Sun of Reality must appear manifest, evident and brilliant in them  AB03234

And We have made all things mirrors of My Self that they might face this Sun, the Dawning, the Holy, the Manifest, the Wondrous.  BH01814

This means that when the mirror is purified and is turned toward the sun, the Bestowals of the Sun will become reflected therein.  AB10785

When mirrors become pure and the lights shine, the signs of the Sun of Truth shall reflect therein with most wonderful splendors.  AB04599

One should constantly turn the mirror of his heart squarely toward God so that the Light of the Sun of Truth may be reflected there.  ABU2946

Now, the more you polish the mirror, the more will the light of the Sun of Truth shine upon it and the greater will be its radiance.   AB04102

The hearts of the servants are mirrors of God - they must at all times be cleansed and sanctified with the burnishing of His knowledge.   BH09328

The heart of man is like a mirror that is covered with dust, and to cleanse it one must continually pray to GOD that it may become clean.  ABU1226

When the light of the love of God is burning in the mirror of the heart, that flame shows the way and guides to the Kingdom of the Word of God.   ABU2295

Therefore turn thou unto thy heart, that is, when it is in the utmost freedom, and behold how the radiance of my love is manifest in that mirror  AB10284

It is my hope that each one of you may become a mirror of Baha'o'llah, and that the beauties of Baha'o'llah may become resplendent in your hearts.  ABU0820

Our hearts like unto pure mirrors receive the impressions and these spiritual images are reflected from one mirror upon another without the medium of language.  ABU2778


the inner reality of man must mirror the light that shines upon it from the rays of the Sun of Truth, otherwise it is no better than a black stone, darkness upon darkness   AB00961

among the surfaces of human hearts, each that is pure, subtle and transparent manifests within it the likeness of the Sun of Reality, and the effulgences of lights appear in its essence  AB05239

so that the page of the heart may, through the intensity of its purity, receive the reflections of the Concourse on High and shine forth with divine characteristics in the world of humanity  AB09362

So long as the surface of the mirror is not clean from rust and dust, the radiance and effulgence of the sun shall never be imprinted on it. The more the body is lightened, the sooner it ascends.  ABU0313

The rays of love having shone from the True One unto the creation, the great signs thereof are imprinted upon clear and luminous hearts, and as these mirror-hearts meet, reflecting this sublime light  AB10780

Yet, O my God, I was naught at that time save a mirror of Thy countenance and an expression of Thy Face, being certain and acknowledging that every object of worship besides Thee is false and evanescent.  BB00011


Should a black stone be placed facing the light of the sun, the signs of brilliancy would not appear, but, in the pure mirror, the sun, with all of its attributes and perfections, becomes reflected instantly.  ABU3436

When the lights of love shone forth from the Truth unto creation, His greatest signs were imprinted upon pure and luminous hearts, and the mirrors of hearts faced one another and reflected that manifest light.  AB07785

Nevertheless, its connection to the body is apparent, and resembleth the connection of the sun to a mirror. Should the bond of association become severed, the body will become deprived and the mirror obscured.  AB03491

Therefore the human spirit is like unto a mirror wherein the Sun of Reality is reflected. Therefore such a spirit is assuredly eternal, everlasting and steadfast. It hath no extinction and possesseth all perfections.  ABU0085

Therefore from this standpoint the meaning of this verse is as follows: Purify your heart that it may become like unto a transparent mirror. Then thou shalt find Me "standing within thee, Powerful, Mighty and Supreme."  ABU2024

when a place is far away it must be a very clear mirror to reflect, it must have a clear surface to reveal the light of the sun, where it not for the polished surface of the mirror it could not reflect the sun. This is evidence of the purity of your hearts.   ABU0988

The sun is reflected in the mirror; the mirror reflects the light and brilliancy of the sun, but the sun does not reside in the mirror. It does not enter nor come out of the mirror, nevertheless one sees it in the mirror, so the soul reflects itself in the body.  ABU0541

The bounties of the Blessed Beauty are like unto the sun, and souls are like receptive surfaces and benefiting crystals. The more refined these mirrors become, and the more they are cleansed from the rust of heedlessness and human desires and satanic qualities, the more will they reflect.   AB02922

We may look at a mirror and praise it, and say how wonderfully bright it is, and what a beautiful light is in it, but the mirror of itself is dark. It is only bright because it reflects the light; if it is dusty or not clear, it will not reflect much light. The light of God is also reflected from a stone, and from the whole face of nature.  ABU0322

Therefore, when a person of pure heart and sanctified mind becomes, mirror-like, free from the rust of attachment to aught else but God, he derives light from the Sun of Reality, becomes a polished surface reflecting divine lights, becomes an unveiler of mysteries, becomes the joy of the righteous, attains to true existence, and is freed from all sorrow.  AB09094

The rays of the sun shine forth from the mirror when it is exposed to the sun, although the mirror of itself is dark. The light which we see in the mirror is but the effect of the power and grace of the sun. In the same way, the visible world is altogether imperfect; all the virtues and all the perfections which appear in this world are the reflections of the perfections of God.  ABU0565

Like unto a mirror, man's heart and mind must be purified, clarified and polished. Any dust or rust that may be on it such as attachment to this nether world, the turning of man's face away from God, sin or lust, animosity and rancor-all these must be removed that the rays of the Sun of Truth may shine upon it in full splendor and may be reflected there-from with full effulgence.   ABU2405

When the Sun of Truth shone forth from the Most Holy horizon of grace and shed its rays upon all regions, each of the mirrors of created things, being pure, delicate and translucent, reflected those brilliant lights and radiant beams, and the light of beauty became manifest therein. Thus each of the holy souls is a mirror of reality that reflects the lights of the Beauty of the One.  AB07935

Souls are like unto mirrors, and the bounty of God is like unto the sun. When the mirrors pass beyond all coloring and attain purity and polish, and are confronted with the sun, they will reflect in full perfection its light and glory. In this condition one should not consider the mirror, but the power of the light of the sun, which hath penetrated the mirror, making it a reflector of the heavenly glory.   AB01870

Therefore, that kind friend must find pure hearts that, like mirrors, may capture the true image of man. O seeker of truth! Polish the mirror of your heart clean of the rust and dust of this mortal world and turn it toward the celestial realm on high, that through the attractive power of the love of God, the exalted images of the Abha Kingdom and the effulgent lights of the Supreme Being may become reflected therein.  AB05225

