
Thou wert exceedingly ashamed of thyself and wert wholly detached of thyself for thou dost consider thyself a sinner. This very condition of humility, lowliness and confession of thine own sin is indicative of the purity and sanctity of thy soul, for every sinner consider himself an eminent person and every eminent person considers himself a sinner.   AB07368

Be a humble and modest being.  AB05308

Be humble and submissive to God  AB05451

"We must become like children"   ABU3166

Perfection is impossible without humility   ABU3209

they should not consider themselves superior   BH04200

associate with My loved ones in complete humility  BH06095

be towards all with the utmost humility and meekness  AB00725

I said, "I wish to teach this Message of Light and Truth, but I feel that my efforts are small and unimportant."  He answered, "The mountain is large, but it has no intelligence. The diamond is small, but it is filled with light. The elephant produces no melody; the nightingale's song is like the music of Heaven."  ABU2510

with a heart overflowing with humility and lowliness   AB06450

humility and submissiveness before the loved ones of God   AB06567

And he must be in the utmost humility and submissiveness   AB04273

We are but lowly servants...We are captive, poor and abased   AB05364

through humility and lowliness before the court of Thy oneness  AB11045

the friends of God are humble and submissive... and are modest   AB03386

O my Lord! Thou art the All-Powerful and I am helpless and poor.   BH09032

and when I consider my own self, lo, I find it coarser than clay!   BH11435

show all meekness to all men... a fruit upon the tree of humility   BH03420

Rather, lower unto them the wing of humility, purely for My sake.   BH00941

Therefore, as much as you can, show forth lowliness and neediness   AB01093

dedicate thyself with the utmost humility to serving the righteous  AB09252

let thyself be humble and meek in the presence of the beloved of God  AB11106

Become the embodiment of humility and the reality of submissiveness   AB06083

Be a servant to the friends and dust at the feet of the loved ones.   AB06104

We are helpless and insignificant, lacking and without discernment.   AB04253

This servant doth acknowledge and confess his shortcoming or failing   BH01992

I supplicate God... to help thee to be gentle, humble and submissive   AB05958

My greatest happiness is this, that I may be counted among the poor.   ABU3471

expressions of humility, submissiveness, self-effacement, nothingness   BH10325

O my Lord! This is Thy weak servant who hath clung to Thy mighty Name   BH06254

"thy humility and lowliness before God, the Lord of the mighty Throne"   BH07818

they are in the utmost attention and supplication and humility and need  AB01327

Indeed in conduct and behavior he is humble and lowly like any servant   AB00323

Assembly means humility and submissiveness toward the loved ones of God.   AB03779

Yet in humility and submissiveness he is like unto the center of the earth.  AB08308

sat like dust in complete humility and submissiveness at the holy threshold  AB07211

The friends must be like this, becoming the lowliest servants to one another  AB07690

O Thou Pure and Omnipotent God! O Thou my kind Lord! Grant me such power...   AB01578

thou hast beseeched and insisted with the utmost humility and self-effacement  AB10457

to make thee a sign of meekness and humbleness among the maid-servants of God  AB09626

God have mercy on one who knows his worth and does not transgress his bounds   AB00675

O people of submission, make your submission and humility to be for God alone   BH06333

with a submissive heart and humble spirit I continually beseech and supplicate  AB04052

He chose the rank of sandal-bearers in humility, sincerity and submissiveness   AB03039

except that I may demonstrate my powerlessness and become aware of my ignorance  AB07268

In the Kingdom of mysteries I show forth humility and lowliness on your behalf   AB11926

that from head to foot thou wilt become the embodiment of humility and lowliness  AB10023

I draw near unto Thee through my powerlessness, poverty, abasement and lowliness  AB02867

Upon examining its contents, which were filled with humility and self-effacement   AB07188

blessed souls who are humble, suppliant and lowly have attained and been blessed   AB11755

they express humility, supplication and lowliness before the Kingdom of Mysteries   AB01809

Blessed art thou for having become a humble servant to the loved ones of the Lord!   AB05815

"with absolute humility and submission live among the Maidservants of the Merciful"   AB06599

Then make me humble and submissive to that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.   BH04945

all the friends who arose to serve as labourers with much humility and submissiveness  AB01831

"If thou art seeking everlasting glory, choose humility in the path of the True One."  AB01722

We are but servants, we are lowly - what can we accomplish? Who are we? What are we?   ABU0955

I press my brow and cover my face with the dust of lowliness, impotence and contrition  AB09131

I myself have failed on this account; may thou succeed and pray in turn for my success.  AB04675

I am the servant of all Thy servants, the lowliest of Thy thralls in the darksome pit.   AB05651

However, he sees absolutely no worthiness in himself unless God's favors encompass him.  AB02194

There is no cure save tearful supplication and no remedy but complete self-effacement.   AB00891

Unless Thou regard it with the eye of forgiveness and behold it with the glance of favor.  BH05138

and through humility and supplication become the confidant and companion of 'Abdu'l-Baha   AB05736

You know and see my condition, my poverty, my powerlessness, my lowliness, my brokenness   AB12141

How can this utter powerlessness and complete evanescence succeed in this mighty endeavor?  AB12510

Thou, who wert neither a claimant to guidance nor numbered among those who sought direction  AB12409

Thy servant has arisen with all humility and contrition, has renounced pride and arrogance   AB05500

When a person is humble and becomes selfless, then he grows hopeful [of divine assistance].  ABU2212

to be reverent, to be humble, to be hospitable...to know that you are less than anyone else  ABU1225

To be humble. To be servants of each other and to know that we are less than any one else.   ABU1013

That Wronged One of the horizons dealt with all people in utmost humility and submissiveness  AB10395

This obscure one has no merit or worthiness, but the all-encompassing grace encompasses all   AB02557

Grow daily in humility and meekness, until thou attainest eternal glory and everlasting grace.  AB09722

It is said in the New Testament: "Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant."  AB07134

When we look to ourselves, we find ourselves less than an atom, more insignificant than a gnat  AB01147

We raised him to this station because he showed no pride when the Sun of Sanctification dawned   BH03321

Make them humble, submissive, bowing and prostrating in that divine Presence of lofty edifice.   AB05417

Verily Thou knowest my humility, my evanescence, my poverty, my agitation and my shortcomings.   ABU2194

Therefore, the hope of this servant at Your threshold is that You be their shelter and refuge.   AB12057

Accept this insignificant handmaiden at Thy blessed Threshold... this poor one... this lowly one  AB10142

Whosoever desires to be first among you must be last. This is the way and path of 'Abdu'l-Baha.   AB05083

The ultimate aspiration of this servant is to succeed in pure servitude at the Sacred Threshold   AB05634

the utmost desire of 'Abdu'l-Baha is to become the lowliest servant of those beloved ones of God  AB04440

Humility towards God and constant prayer to Him so as to be enabled to grow daily "Nearer God."   ABU2404

"She was very humble. She would treat any other woman as if she were that person's maidservant."  ABU0816

We are, one and all, servants of their threshold, and stand each as a lowly keeper at their door.  AB00203

The utmost desire of this servant is to be honored with such service, but where is this possible?  AB08689

Moreover, he must be in the utmost state of humility and evanescence, that others may be mindful.  AB05982

They came before Thee with provisions of humility and submissiveness to the Kingdom of mysteries.  AB10804

One should be the quintessence of humility, the very essence of meekness and be evanescence itself  AB09838

Grow thou daily in humility and meekness until thou attainest eternal glory and everlasting grace.  AB09722

do not exceed proper bounds in attributing station to me beyond servitude at the Sacred Threshold   AB06705

How can I raise my head in shame before the Friend, when no worthy service has come from my hand?   AB06968

two destitute ones, two without head or foot, two poor ones, two indigent ones, two without means   AB07428

How can I raise my head before the Friend in shame, For no worthy service came forth from my hand?  AB05236

When we look at ourselves, we find ourselves less than an atom, lower and more abject than a gnat.   AB02814

Thus doth My Most Exalted Pen remind thee that thou mayest remember thy Lord with manifest humility.  BH08359

Verily, this handmaid of Thine seeketh Thy good-pleasure with all lowliness, humility and contrition  AB10802

Strive with utmost humility, submissiveness and lowliness to create love between the friends of God.  AB02722

"If a man considers himself humble and lowly in the Cause of God, he becomes glorified in all eyes."  ABU3459

How can I raise my head before the Friend in shame, When no worthy service from my hands there came?  AB08758

Look not at thine own insignificance, but rather gaze upon the supreme favors of the Most Great One.   AB04323

By my life, I was rejoiced at thy humility, submissiveness, lowliness and meekness in the Cause of God  AB05945

dilate my breast by serving Thy maid-servants and being humble and submissive before Thy beloved ones   AB03891

Although I am not worthy to place upon my head a hat like that majestic crown, yet such is my desire.   AB01551

Words and prayers used to be revealed and they were all in the utmost of humility and submissiveness.   ABU2500

Now consider to whom you are related, appreciate its worth, and act in a manner befitting this lineage.  AB09044

make them humble and lowly... be raised up before all the friends in complete humility and supplication   AB04498

O my beloved Master, I call upon Thee with utter abasement and lowliness, and with a supplicating tongue  AB04594

One must never feel superior to anyone else. This feeling destroys all vestiges of friendship and love.   ABU3076

"How can I, in my weakness and powerlessness, circle round the sacred precincts?"  AB03903

But the name "Asghar" (smaller) indicates that one must act with kindness and humility toward all people   AB01307

By day and by night we supplicate the Threshold of the Self-Sufficient One in utter lowliness and in tears  AB10077

Give praise to God that thou hast turned in lowliness and supplication to the Court of the Self-Sufficient  AB11345

But alas, alas! This weak ant seeketh a Solomon, and this provision-less gnat seeketh a lion of the forest.  AB07679

You served the servants of Truth and showed humility in the presence of those near to the Divine Grandeur.   AB05649

However, I am completely despairing of my own worthiness and capacity unless God's infinite favors arrive.   AB04332

Happy is thy condition that thou art meek and humble and directed to the Kingdom of God and looking to God.  AB01045

The humbler and lowlier a person shall be the nearer to and more acceptable at the threshold of God is he.   ABU3034

You will know them by their humility, sincerity, deeds, severance, knowledge, spirituality and attraction.   ABU2599

Thy letter was received and from it wafted the fragrance of humility and submissiveness for the sake of God.   BH02621

I press my brow to the dust and soil my face with the earth of lowliness, powerlessness and utter submission   AB09131

"Henceforth practice sufficiency and contentment so that you may be considered truly content in the Kingdom."  AB03681

until now He has not succeeded even to the extent of a drop and has no capital except shame and embarrassment  AB04184

humbled, broken, clinging to the cord of lowliness and contrition, submissive and humble before Thy grandeur   AB02862

in humility and submissiveness and self-effacement and detachment from all else make him unique and singular   AB02227

From his radiant brow shone forth the lights of humility, lowliness, submissiveness, meekness and detachment   AB02340

How appealing is the theme of this verse, and how it mirrors the yearning of this lowly one's heart and soul!  AB10021

O my Lord! I am the poor one, and Thou art the All-Powerful, the Self-Sufficient, the Bountiful, the Generous.  BH09510

Verily the nearest of you to God is the most God-fearing and most humble among you, if ye be of them that know.  BH10130

the Tongue of Grandeur hath testified to thee and acknowledged thy turning unto Him, thy humility, thy lowliness  BH11010

compose an ode about the servitude of this servant and my utter poverty and nothingness at the Sacred Threshold   AB03103

When Abdu'l-Baha was addressed by the name of prophet, he answered, "My name is Abdu'l-Baha, the Servant of God"  ABU1244

with the utmost supplication and entreaty, show forth humility and need at the threshold of the All-Glorious Lord  AB09872

The proof of true strength is to manifest humility, meekness, and lowliness at the Threshold of the One True God.  AB09508

Humility and submissiveness, self-effacement and evanescence, obedience and resignation are accepted and beloved.  AB08261

Praise be to God, you are a humble servant at the Sacred Threshold and a reverent guardian at the Blessed Court.   AB07556

without mentioning their names or allowing anyone to catch wind of it in a way that would cause them humiliation   AB05184

The attractive power of this gift is detachment and rapture, its spirit and fragrance are humility and lowliness   AB01369

This servant also, at the illumined Sacred Threshold, in utmost poverty and evanescence, supplicates and implores   AB06057

"I divest myself of every garment except the robe of lowliness and contrition in the court of Thy Divine Oneness"   AB00851

that I may chant the verses of Thy forgiveness in gatherings of humility and lowliness, free from deceit and pride  AB10386

his simplicity, not knowing any good that he did...even his name was forgotten and he was called 'The Holy Shadow'   ABU1282

Lower thy wing of mercy unto the believers. Verily, I would kiss the dust trodden by the feet of God's chosen ones.  AB10699

At the threshold of the One, I express utter lowliness and need on behalf of you and your relations and associates   AB11781

Hearken unto My call. Thou shouldst appear before the loved ones of God with the utmost humility and submissiveness.  BH00470

"humble and submissive before every believer in God, suppliant and lowly in the gatherings of the loved ones of God"  AB04988

When I look to myself, I realize that I am an infinitesimal atom. I have not the capacity and ability of any station  AB03303

Pray God that He may assist me also in this path and make of me a lowly servant among such as serve at His threshold.  AB09081

He will be attracted with the love of the Beloved, and immerse his whole being in the ocean of humility and meekness.   AB04610

Whosoever is more humble in the Cause of God he is more confirmed and whosoever is more evanescent he is more favored.  ABU2150

Make this ancient servant an intimate at the feast of Thy favors, and enrich this poor and lowly one with true wealth.  AB10108

With the utmost powerlessness and lowliness, submissiveness and repentance, I turn unto Thee, in tears before Thy face   AB06213

our recognition of our powerlessness and supplication for His assistance the sole means of approaching the Unconstrained  AB09332

I am ashamed of my shortcomings and vexed by my sins. I am hapless, downtrodden, homeless and ready for every sacrifice.  AB05409

Notwithstanding this infinitesimal smallness how proud, haughty is he of his origin! He is indeed negligent and unaware.  ABU2797

I am humble. I am meek. The Blessed Perfection has trained and educated me with the power of humility and renunciation.   ABU2065

O Kamal! The Self-Sufficient, the Most High, counseleth thee to render thy humility and reverence wholly unto God alone.   BH04119

My Lord, accept from Your humble, submissive, downtrodden and poor servant this proxy service for the loved ones of God.   AB03731

It is incumbent upon thee to be meek, to be humble, to be submissive and suppliant before the Threshold of the Merciful.   AB03881

Look not at your own capacity and ability; rather look to the universal bounty, divine gift and power of the Holy Spirit   AB00388

Our Beloved sometimes once in a week would call on Baha'u'llah and always, as a sign of respect would sit near the door.   ABU1786

Never, never do this, this is worse than all things. Man is a sinful blunderer, therefore he must acknowledge his faults.  ABU1108

beware lest ye pride yourselves over any of My servants by reason of what ye have been given of the ornaments of the earth  BH03725

If we look to our own reality, we are but dust in the path, yet if we look to His grace, we are dawning-places of lights.   AB05817

all the friends of God must arise to serve one another with the utmost humility, submissiveness, lowliness and contrition   AB00886

"You are the servant of the Greatest Name, I do not say you are God, But show compassion to my helplessness and lowliness"   AB04473

'Abdu'l-Baha has no existence or being - he is utterly effaced and non-existent at the Sacred Threshold of the Abha Beauty   AB03098

Although Vahid was renowned and an illustrious person, he showed such humility before the servants at the divine threshold.  ABU1829

Be thou lowly in thy devotion and remember thy Lord in these days wherein people have taken for themselves a lord besides God  BH11775

Christ said that the Pharisee's praying was not accepted in the Kingdom of GOD, but the prayer of the poor man was accepted.   ABU1506

O my Lord! I am but a feeble ant, a frail gnat with broken wings, my feet weary from traversing the wilderness of separation.  AB07896

Verily Thou knowest my poverty, my want, my distress and my lowliness, and what I have and what I know not of what Thou hast.   BH09131

How can I extol the effulgent beauty of Thy Lordship, conscious as I am of my nothingness before the habitation of Thy glory?   BB00382

through your conduct and behavior, character and disposition, speech, humility and submissiveness, lowliness and supplication   AB06247

We are all poor at His Door, weak before His Power, lowly at His Threshold, and we possess the power of neither good nor harm.  AB04182

'O God, a sinner is asking another sinner to act as his mediator. How can I intercede for him when I am aware of my own sins?'  ABU1610

As much as you can, be selfless and, with the utmost lowliness and supplication, cry out at the threshold of the Lord of Glory  AB08559

Humility exalteth man to the heaven of glory and power, whilst pride abaseth him to the depths of wretchedness and degradation.  BH00005

O thou servant of the Abha Beauty! 'Abdu'l-Baha is abashed. He is shameful for He hath failed to serve at the Sacred Threshold.  AB05562

O my Lord! I testify that I am the poor, the lowly, and that Thou art the Rich, the Powerful, the All-Forgiving, the Bountiful.   BH01051

thy arising for the service of the Kingdom of God, servitude unto His beloved ones and meekness and lowliness to His chosen ones  AB09014

Lord! Make me as dust trodden by the feet of Thy loved ones, and as scattered particles beneath the sandals of Thy devoted ones.  AB03563

Pray and supplicate that the Self-Sufficient Lord may place such a crown upon the head of this center of poverty and nothingness  AB02670

Every day we have seen gifts such as fruit, flowers, honey and sweets which have been placed here anonymously and without show.   ABU3010

O Lord! I am the poor one standing before the gate of Thy riches. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which is with Thee   BH07270

"Due to the abundance of occupation, this servant does not have time to trouble the friends, therefore he seeks pardon from all."   BH02596

I beseech Thee... to make me humble before Thy loved ones, speaking of Thy remembrance and praise, and arising to serve Thy Cause.  BH02288

Would that I were dust whereupon tread the feet of Thy sincere ones among Thy loved ones and Thy chosen ones among Thy pure ones!   BH00970

Don the garments of holiness and adorn thy head with the crown of humility and lowliness before the dominion of the Lord of Hosts.  AB08989

We are servants and slaves who are weak, wretched, homeless, sinners, fast asleep, doubtful, full of shortcomings, and oppressors.  AB07055

and this is from the bounty of my Most Glorious Lord, otherwise what capacity or capability would this broken-winged gnat possess?  AB04548

Thou seest me prostrate in the dust of humility and self-effacement...and hath humbled herself before the dominion of Thy grandeur  AB03312

I hope that day by day you will become closer at the Threshold of Oneness and increase in detachment, humility and submissiveness.  AB11784

Lowliness is the cause of elevation and justice is the source of power. Consider the lowliness of dust - from it pure jewels appear  BH05574

'Abdu'l-Baha's desire is humility at the threshold of Baha'u'llah. This is the ultimate goal of my hopes, the end of my aspirations  AB08802

This is the ultimate goal of my hopes, the end of my desires, the light of my countenance, my manifest morn, and my flowing spring.  AB08802

O thou strong one! The proof of true strength is to manifest humility, meekness, and lowliness at the Threshold of the One True God.  AB09508

O my Lord! I am weak and Thou art the Strong, the Mighty, the Powerful. I am poor and Thou art the Wealthy, the Powerful, the Great.   BH04797

Count humility and submissiveness as eternal glory and consider self-effacement and evanescence as the gift of the Supreme Concourse.  AB04246

Otherwise who are we and what are we? If His ray of loving-kindness did not exist, how would souls pay attention to the likes of us?   ABU2716

We have found in every letter the fragrance of turning, humility and lowliness before the Manifestation of God, the Mighty, the Great.   BH04492

"Today the friends of God must be in utmost humility and submissiveness and self-effacement and true poverty and calmness and dignity."  AB00524

I have no recourse but obscurity in the corner of forgetfulness, and silence and stillness in the abyss of powerlessness and abasement.   AB03905

O my Lord! I am the weak one who has clung to the cord of Your power, and I am the poor one who has held fast to the hem of Your riches.   BH08592

I am but a wretched creature, O my Lord, and Thou art the All-Possessing, the Most High; and I am all weakness, and Thou art the Almighty  BH04744

Whosoever is the thrall of the Beloved ones is the sovereign of both worlds... Thralldom of the Holy Court is dominion over East and West  AB11257

Don the garments of sanctity and adorn your head with the crown of humility and self-effacement before the dominion of the Lord of Hosts.  AB08989

It is incumbent upon thee to be humble, lowly and submissive at the appearance of the lights of the gifts of thy Lord, in every instant.   AB07048

Although they lift up the head of pride, show thou greater humility and meekness and treat them with the utmost submission and lowliness.  AB00587

They are mindful of the Bounties of God and day by day they become humbler and meeker and more gentle and sweet toward their fellow-men.   ABU1780

the Primal Point (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) showed the utmost humility and submissiveness to the Prophet and the guided Imams.  ABU0630

In any case, when 'Abdu'l-Baha looks at his own deeds, he becomes infinitely ashamed and embarrassed, nay rather, disgusted with himself.   AB02214

Although they lift up the head of pride, show thou greater humility and meekness and treat them with the utmost submission and lowliness.   AB00587

every one of them will be trained in the use of the mind, in acquiring knowledge, in humility and lowliness, in dignity, in ardour and love  AB07881

"Verily I pray unto my Lord with all humbleness, meekness, obedience and submissiveness--which demolisheth every edifice of self-exaltation"  AB05917

Thou hast favoured this feeble servant with Thine infinite blessings, and led this hapless and lowly one unto the Threshold of Thy oneness.  AB07484

Conduct thyself among the people according to the ways of God, and associate with His loved ones with the utmost humility and submissiveness  BH05700

to make thee a sign of submissiveness and a standard of meekness, lowliness and humility before the Kingdom of the Mighty and Omnipotent God  AB08375

It is very unlikely that this frail body can move on this path, and this dull tongue can utter praises and attributes of the Glorious Lord.   AB02609

"When he read the decree he wrote in reply 'His Excellency Mirza Sadiq is not worthy of a thousand tumans salary' and returned the salary."   AB01379

We must be humble. We must speak with gentleness and brotherliness. We must speak about each other with consideration and infinite courtesy.   ABU1005

A handmaiden most humble and meek, powerless and helpless, lowly and suppliant, hath returned and sought refuge at the court of Thy grandeur.  AB07230

Therefore I return to the plane of humility, supplication, devotion and lowliness, and I commune with Thee with the tongue of inner mysteries   AB03077

The essence of understanding is to testify to one's poverty, and submit to the Will of the Lord, the Sovereign, the Gracious, the All-Powerful.  BH02183

I swear by the face and hair of the Most Glorious Beloved that no blessing or praise makes me more delighted and happy than being 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB09190

These weak ants had no power to move, but the blessings of the divine Kingdom encompassed them and assistance reached this broken-winged moth.   AB01046

But these things should be the cause of humility and self-effacement. We must not consider that they are due to our addresses or our eloquence.  ABU2339

O my Lord! Thou seest my poverty, my powerlessness, my tribulation and my need. Have mercy upon me, O my God, through the wonders of Thy mercy.   BH01899

'Abdu'l-Baha, who seeketh refuge and shelter at the Threshold of the Abha Beauty, boweth his head in utmost lowliness upon the dust of that Court  AB10383

The hope is that in this journey, like a weak gnat, at least some flight and movement may occur in the forest of servitude to the Blessed Beauty   AB04974

O Lord! Who are we and what are we? Whatever exists is Thee. What shall we say and what path shall we tread? Thou art the Speaker and the Guide.   AB05318

He is Thy destitute and poor servant, Thy beseeching, supplicating and captive bondsman, entreating Thee, trusting in Thee, imploring before Thee  AB03082

Whosoever is humble, he is the most noble... walk ye in the footsteps of 'Abdu'l-Baha for he is in the utmost state of humility and submissiveness  AB10781

Although we are but useless grass, yet we are of Thy garden. Though we are but young trees, bare of leaves and blossoms, yet we are of Thy orchard.  AB10794

Lord, I am ailing, heal me; stammered, unloosen my tongue; accustom me with humiliation and extreme lowliness; save me from splendor and arrogance   AB01096

Nevertheless, how can this unworthy servant be fitted to plumb the depths of this ocean, or to tread upon this carpet, or to tarry in this station?   BH00408

Thou didst crown this poor servant with the diadem of service and didst cast the chain of Thy loving providence about the neck of this wretched one.  AB09887

For the crown of servitude to the Threshold befits the brow of humanity, and the diadem of humility and submissiveness adorns the head of all people.  AB09184

Despite the assistance and service the Qáʼim-Maqám rendered unto ʻAbbás, he never disclosed it to him, and kept the matter ever hidden from him.  ABU3652

How then could it be imagined that this weak and lowly handmaiden could step into the arena of recognizing Thee or soar in the atmosphere of Thy love?  BH06006

Know thou this: that in truth and essence, in identity and attributes, in capacity and desert, I am the servant of the servants of the Blessed Beauty.  AB09201

This helpless, lowly one is ashamed of his sins and abashed at his transgressions, both manifest and hidden. How can he utter a word of good pleasure?  AB07856

O my Lord! I am the ignorant one who hath turned to the ocean of Thy knowledge, and the distant one who seeketh from Thee the Kawthar of Thy nearness.   BH08587

To the friends in that land, with both outer and inner tongue, and with perfect devotion and sincerity, I offer my utter nothingness and non-existence.  BH03681

Rather, we are a captive, a stranger, simple and poor, humble and lowly at the threshold of the Almighty Lord. We are His displaced and helpless ones.   AB00957

Due to the press of affairs I was compelled to this shortcoming, and I asked forgiveness beforehand that no weakness in the bonds of love had occurred.  AB11860

Pride not yourselves over those whom We have sanctified from earthly adornments, and humble yourselves before those who have turned unto the Intended One  BH05059

Wherefore, O thou morning bird, now is the time for melody and song; and, O thou essence of poverty, now is the season for lowly and ardent supplication.  AB04415

Morning and evening I bring my lowliness and need to the threshold of my Most Exalted Lord, and in supplication I become intimate and harmonious with Him  AB11042

This evanescent servant presents his utter effacement and nothingness to all, and likewise to the assured, steadfast, pure, sanctified and tranquil souls.  BH00830

Let us all associate with one another with the utmost poverty and selflessness, with evanescence, and radiance of spirit, with meekness and holy humility.  AB09617

I call on Thee with a tongue of lowliness and contrition, with a heart empty and free from pride and vainglory, with anguish, trepidation and desperation   AB05452

"We are ashamed that on the Day of Recompense we did not commit a sin worthy of His forgiveness." This verse was mentioned repeatedly. Well spoken indeed!   BH04873

For the crown of servitude to the Divine Threshold befits the brow of humanity, and the diadem of humility and submissiveness adorns the head of all people.  AB09184

What power hath a feeble servant, and what flight can a frail gnat attempt? How far the heights of glory from the wing and feather of the bird of abasement!  AB08056

All mentions regarding this servant are excessive and deficient save pure servitude and bondage to the Threshold and guardianship of the Court of the Lord.   AB06636

In this court we must be humble and meek, active and progressive, wide-awake and thoughtful, true and sincere, noble and good, straightforward and zealous.   ABU2526

The divine ideals are humility, submissiveness, annihilation of self, perfect evanescent, charity and loving-kindness. You must die in self and live in God.  ABU1505

Happy art thou for thou art illumined by the light of the love of God, art humble, evanescent and a true servant, for such are the attributes of the sincere.  AB03660

I told him that I am not interested in such royal visits, that I am the friend of the poor and would consider it always a great honor to be received by them.  ABU0265

Strive night and day so that you may become a partner and sharer with 'Abdu'l-Baha in servitude, humility, contrition, freedom, nothingness and self-effacement  AB05702

even though my mention is not worthy of one who has been illumined by the lights of the Divine Realm and has turned to God, the Sovereign of the Realm of Might   BH02734

During the recitation they should maintain silence, and if someone wishes to speak, it should be with utmost humility, in eloquent speech and fluent expression.  AB02358

You wrote a phrase in your letter asking to be saved from self-pride. I hope that you will see yourself as nothing and count yourself as completely non-existent.  AB03739

Convey greetings and praise to each and every one of the friends on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha with utmost humility, submissiveness, evanescence and self-effacement   AB11757

After these utterances shining forth from the ocean of meanings, the mention of this evanescent one is in truth evanescent and non-existent and shall ever be so.   BH03423

For instance, if a person shows humility for the sake of God towards the friends of God, this humility in truth returns to God, as it stems from his faith in God.  BH02157

For 'Abdu'l-Baha, the utmost praise is servitude and lowliness before the Sacred Threshold. This is my cup of joy, this is my birdsong, this is my lamp of light.   AB03541

O Lord! All men have confessed their powerlessness to praise and glorify Thee - how much more this handmaiden who is more insignificant than an ant in Thy kingdom!   BH04034

O my God! What am I and what is my station that I should find myself in this Most Great Scene... By Thy might! This is not of my deserving, but rather of Thy grace   BH03525

Today, whoever is in utmost poverty and nothingness, and is humble before the Divine Threshold, will witness assistance and bounty, and attain victory and triumph.   AB11907

With utmost lowliness and supplication beseech ye the Self-Sufficing Lord that He may assist you to mention Him, to praise Him, and to remain steadfast in His Cause.  BH11660

In the station of servitude, he must be utter powerlessness and absolute poverty - existence must become pure non-existence, humility must become complete humility.   AB02771

True greatness lies in lowliness, and eternal glory in humility, brokenness and servitude to the servants of God. This is the great attainment in this manifest Day.   AB00355

Such people are ashamed before God and become very humble. The Pharisee said: 'Thank God I am not as other men.' The other said: 'God have mercy upon me, a sinner!'   ABU2511

The more the believers humble themselves at the Divine Threshold, the more powerful and universal will be the descent of the Holy Spirit of new dedication upon them.  ABU1523

This did not mean--God forbid!--that Christ was a sinner, but rather His intention was to teach humility, lowliness, meekness and modesty to the man He was addressing.  AB00168

and we are but servants and lowly attendants at that Blessed Court. Therefore, when we hear descriptions that reflect our true station, we become joyous and delighted  AB08124

O my Lord! Thou seest the poorest of Thy servants turning to the horizon of Thy riches, and the most abject of Thy creatures facing the heaven of Thy glory and power.   BH08598

O Lord! I am the poor and hopeful one, and Thou art the All-Giving, the Generous. I am the weak and lowly one, and Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Trustworthy.   BH01074

He should be a person free from all thoughts of name and rank; rather, he should say, 'I am unworthy and incapable of this position and cannot bear this great burden.'  ABU2720

"This petition is presented very briefly because that honored one is coming, and since the decree of nearness is established, extensive submission would be presumptuous"  BH04452

This evanescent servant perceiveth his own shortcoming to such degree that he is ashamed even to express his deficiency and counteth even this among the gravest of sins   BH01582

However, humility is among the requirements of servitude to that Luminous Beauty, therefore being ashamed is freedom, and embarrassment is the cause of increased bounty.  AB06609

One should not have expectations from others. One should always consider oneself at fault and say that what should have been accomplished by one's hand was not achieved.  ABU1659

I am a servant without learning or claim. Whoever makes the slightest judgment of belief about this lowly one, God will question him about it on the Day of Resurrection.   BB00363

Being shamestruck with my incapacity, how can I raise my head before my Beloved! Because I have been unable to render unto him one single unselfish service worthy of him!   ABU1029

Verily, I beg God to confirm thee by a power by which thou mayest be enabled to worship God and to serve His Cause and to be submissive and lowly before the beloved of God.  AB08371

Become the lowliest servant to the servants of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His servants, so that you may attain the glory of all kings and monarchs.   AB03843

I have no way and no means except to acknowledge my powerlessness and shortcoming, as though I were weaving a veil in the heights of the ether with the web of my delusions.   AB04173

When a just man looks to himself he will become characterized with the utmost humility and submission. He will observe that he is less than an atom and lower than the earth.  AB03585

You who neither claimed gnosis nor pretended knowledge of the secrets of truth have, praise be to God, attained and reached that which was the ultimate hope of true mystics.   AB06819

When a fair-minded person looks upon himself, he becomes characterized by the utmost humility and supplication. He observes that he is less than an atom and lower than dust.   AB01915

I send my feeble greetings to them and seek their pardon for my transgressions which occurred due to my heedlessness in remembering them. I seek forgiveness in all conditions   BH02209

O our Lord! We are weak and Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful! We are mortals and Thou art the great life-giving Spirit! We are needy and Thou art the Powerful and Sustainer!   AB04620

you should visit those holy sites with utmost humility and submissiveness, and ask God to let you inhale the perfumed breeze of that divine garden of holiness from those lands.  AB01008

Were there justice, we should, throughout our lives, be engaged in thanksgiving, be occupied in praise, and be characterized by humility. This is the truth of what was submitted.  BH01379

The Most Exalted Pen hath testified to thy acceptance, humility, submissiveness and service, and this testimony is more beloved before God than all that thou hast seen and heard.  BH11899

When someone has been immersed in the ocean of favors, if another were to bestow a drop of their own kindness, it would be absolute error, pure sin, and an unforgiveable misdeed   AB11700

O Thou in Whose hand are the keys of all hearts! For we are all poor at Thy gate and abased before the appearance of Thy might and sovereignty. We possess nothing in Thy kingdom.   BH09204

What else can this evanescent one mention after the dawning of the lights of the Sun of divine favor? Who and what am I? I am lower than dust and more traceless than nothingness.   BH01579

Powerlessness and contrition have ever been beloved in the most holy court. This is the station of servitude which none have attained save the near ones among the servants of God.   BH06107

We are but the embodiments of poverty, of nothingness, of helplessness and of perdition, while Thy whole Being betokeneth wealth, independence, glory, majesty and boundless grace.   BB00543

Pride and haughtiness are the worst qualities. If a person becomes the possessor of the whole world he must not become proud. Humility is the most shining star in the crown of man.   ABU2699

'Abdu'l-Baha is in ultimate shame and embarrassment from his great powerlessness...How can I raise my head in shame before the Friend, When no worthy service came forth from my hand?   AB04401

Although one should in every case be ashamed and embarrassed before the Threshold of Truth, and confess to shortcoming and sin while hoping for the forgiveness and pardon of the Lord   AB03364

As much as thou art able, despite thy weakness, walk in field and farm, and with utmost humility, submissiveness, self-effacement and evanescence, cry out "Glad tidings! Glad tidings!"  AB04772

Although I say always that I am 'Abdu'l-Baha, a servant of God, still people refer to me as a messenger and a prophet. It would be better if they would not attribute such titles to me.  ABU3319

O God! We are weak and Thou art the Powerful! We are needy but Thou art Independent and the Most High! Although we have no ability and capacity, yet Thy Infinite Bounty is inexhaustible!  ABU1028

Know that you seek one who is capable of understanding all mysteries and knowledgeable of all sciences in detail. God and His chosen ones bear witness that I neither was nor am such a one.  BB00407

I am averse to every praise and aloof from every description. My joyful cry is the call "O servant of Baha" and my resurrection is beneath the banner of "O Thou Glory of the Most Glorious!"  AB07811

Verily Your handmaiden is powerless to render thanks for Your gifts and to offer praise and glory to You. She acknowledges her powerlessness, her lowliness, her poverty and her evanescence   AB05395

Thou seest me humble before the might of Thy Lordship, submissive before the greatness of Thy Divinity, abased before the dominion of Thy Oneness, imploring the Kingdom of Thy Mercifulness   AB01225

If a person today should, for God's sake, show deference to another, would this detract from his station? Nay, by My true Self! Rather would he be exalted and God Himself would raise him up.  BH01996

I am lowly, hoping for the outpourings of Your Lordship; I am poor, desiring the manifestation of the treasures of Your Mercy; I am insignificant, seeking help from the power of Your Oneness  AB02029

But I walked twelve miles to the thorn-picker's hut. Then his wife made a little cake out of some meal for me, and burnt it in cooking it. Still that was the best reception I ever attended.   ABU2942

This servant's wish and purpose was such that I should have no trace or sign in this ephemeral world - that I should be completely effaced and non-existent and evanescent and without trace.   AB11890

Know thou, verily, submissiveness is the good quality of the maid-servants of God, and humility is the character of the God-fearing leaves who have sprung forth from the Tree of Mercifulness.  AB07816

But alas, how can this weak gnat soar in the heights of the eagle! Yet since I confess to my powerlessness, the assistance and favor of the Blessed Beauty dawns every moment like the morning   AB07382

The friends here are anxious to know if I like these rooms! They do not know what we had to go through in the past... Now the kind friends here wish to know if I like these magnificent rooms!   ABU2193

Proclaim my servitude to the Sacred Threshold throughout all regions and cry out my evanescence, my lowliness, my brokenness, my submissiveness and my humility at the Sacred and Lofty Threshold  AB11748

Meekness and humility are the hallmarks of faith. As soon a believer feels himself the least bit superior to others, the beginning of his spiritual decline is commenced, all unaware to himself.   ABU2109

If someone commits a fault and I treat them with kindness, this is not due to negligence. Rather, since I acknowledge my own deficiencies and am mindful of my own state, I do not censure others.   AB00994

Know thou in the shadow of these words that shame and abasement exist only in the failure to know God and attain His good-pleasure, for this is so in the estimation of God and the people of truth.  BB00506

We are nothing but weak servants. We are as reeds and all these melodies are from Him. We are ants and this dignity of Solomon is from Him. We are servants and this heavenly dominion is from Him.   ABU2831

We must see ourselves as more lowly, more submissive, more base than anyone else, and when we look at others, we must see that none is more honored, more perfect, more knowledgeable than they are.   ABU0420

My dominion is my humility, my submissiveness, my lowliness, my abasement, my supplication and my beseeching unto God--this is that permanent reign which no one is able to dispute, gainsay or usurp!   AB03525

'How can I, the essence of sin stand in the Presence of the essence of Holiness! I am not worthy of this privilege! Whenever I find that I have attained to this merit I will go but not now, not now.'   ABU0611

Although Abdu'l-Baha considers himself as a drop, yet this drop is connected with the Most Great Sea. Although he looks upon himself as an atom, yet this atom is related to the world-illuminating Sun.   ABU3343

Despite such might, be ye sources of humility and manifestations of meekness, that others may perceive from you the fragrance of My characteristics, whereby every knowing and discerning one is adorned.   BH04497

In these days thou must walk among the servants with the utmost submissiveness, humility and pure servitude, for the manifestation of the Cause and the stability of weak souls depend upon these things.   BH01404

Thou knowest and seest my turning unto Thee, my humility, my submissiveness, my poverty, my need, my powerlessness and my lowliness, and Thou hearest my sighing, my crying, my appeal and my lamentation.  BH03668

How can I remember You and call upon You when all my conditions, powers, pillars and senses confess my powerlessness and inadequacy in performing all the obligations You have ordained for Your servants?  AB05024

This servant has ever mentioned and continues to mention each one in the Most Holy Court, and requests all to beseech God to protect this servant from error, mistake and from all that is unworthy of God.   BH02314

One melts away at the mention of anything that carries the slightest scent of unacceptability, let alone stating it explicitly. This is a station where allusion has no place and investigation falls short.  BH01986

whoever distances themselves from me, I draw near; whoever shows pride, I show humility and submissiveness. I am content that a hundred thousand arrows strike my breast rather than dust settle on anyone.   AB00464

Such an illustrious person threw himself at Sayyah's feet and perfumed and illumined his face and hair with the mud from Sayyah's feet, because he had come from the presence of the Beloved of all worlds.   ABU0986

This servant beseeecheth and imploreth God - exalted be His glory - to aid this servant and His loved ones to achieve that which is the cause and means for the manifestation of true humanity in the world.   BH01103

The magnet for this grace is like a torrent - turning to God, detachment from all else, humility and submissiveness toward the loved ones, service to the Cause of God, and diffusing the divine fragrances.   AB07012

It behooveth you to remain silent before His Throne, for indeed of all the things which have been created between heaven and earth nothing on that Day will be deemed more fitting than the observance of silence.  BB00365

That he has acknowledged his shortcomings and sought forgiveness - blessed is he, and exalted is he who has been made to know humility and supplication in the days of his Lord, the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.  BH00542

The degrees of humility, submissiveness, self-effacement and nothingness of your honor and your household have been mentioned in the Most Exalted Station and before the dwellers of the pavilion of infallibility.   BH01150

The beloved ones must think ever less of themselves and more of others. They must never think of themselves as being superior. Consciously they must forget self and annihilate their ego in the sea of God's Mercy   ABU0842

I did not insist. Sometimes a king will not accede to the request of his Prime Minister but will grant the request of a farmer. I did not insist. I used only to supplicate. As he did not accede, I did not persist.  ABU1759

The defeat was his utmost glory. It was quite the opposite. The things that are the cause of glory in the world are considered shame in the Kingdom, and that which is humility in the world is glory in the Kingdom.   ABU0304

I have no glory save in acknowledging the fire of my limitations, in recognizing the nothingness of my being, in confessing the ultimate bounds of my selfhood, and in accepting the supreme parameters of my identity.   BB00235

How can a subjugated ant engage in servitude to the All-Forgiving Lord? And how can a weak bird become a soaring eagle except through the confirmation of the Abha Kingdom and the assistance of the Concourse on High?   AB04587

Rather, girls ought to be trained in such a manner that from day to day they will become more self-effacing, more humble, and will defer to and obey their parents and forebears, and be a comfort and a solace to all.   AB02464

As soon as one feels a little better, a little superior to the rest he is in a dangerous position, and unless he casts away the seed of such an evil thought he is not a fit instrument for the service of the Kingdom.   ABU0722

You must feel indebted to the poor for accepting, otherwise no matter how much one gives, when accompanied by a sense of having bestowed a favor, it becomes as scattered dust. One must feel grateful that they accept.  ABU0880

Look not on my state, O my God, nor my failure to serve Thee, nay rather regard the oceans of Thy mercy and favors, and the things that beseem Thy glory and Thy forgiveness and befit Thy loving-kindness and bounties.   BH04745

What can this evanescent servant say? In these days he is so occupied that not a moment's respite can be found. Outwardly, I have not seen and do not see this weak existence capable of performing this momentous task.   BH03003

Praise be to God that we are small and insignificant, not great, pompous and arrogant, full of cruelty and devoid of wisdom and fidelity. We must serve at the Divine Threshold with complete effacement and nothingness   AB04946

One must be humble and cast aside pride. Does humility decrease one's station? In Malachi it says, "In the Day of God the proud shall be humbled." The sincere believers who humble themselves shall in this day prosper.  ABU0252

Souls must become submissive and humble through spirit and joy. They should witness such perfections among the loved ones of God, observe such conduct and behavior, that they are compelled to submission and humility.   ABU2721

"like the humblest of servants I arose to serve all, bore all minor and major hardships with perfect gratitude and contentment, felt indebted to all, and showed the utmost humility, meekness and submissiveness to all."  AB00400

For as long as man does not consider himself to be good but regards himself as weak and deficient, he progresses; but the moment he considers himself good and says, "I am perfect", he falls into pride and retrogresses.  ABU2543

O thou who art enkindled with the fire of the love of God! The most resplendent and glorious jewel in the noble crown is none other than servitude at the Sacred Threshold and humility and lowliness at the gate of Oneness.  AB09075

compose a poem and create verses that from beginning to end express 'Abdu'l-Baha's servitude, self-effacement, humility, lowliness, nothingness, non-existence, submissiveness and utter effacement at the threshold of Baha   AB06799

The deed which is conducive to humility, meekness, submissiveness, evanescence, is accepted by God. The action which in the least connotes existence, pride, self-projection is human and not accepted by the Lord of mankind.  ABU1228

'Abdu'l-Baha's congratulations and felicitations will come when he succeeds in servitude at the Sacred Threshold and fulfills the conditions of service. Until now, he has not received a portion or share of this great bounty  AB03206

My beginning and my end, the place from which I start and the place to which I return is the Holy Threshold. What I have is from that Threshold and to it I shall return. Who am I that I should be showered with these favors?   ABU3013

Occasionally, rarely, you should call upon the Vali Bey, show forth love and devotion, and say that you refrain from causing inconvenience, otherwise, considering your services in the blessed days, we should all worship you.  AB11215

The sin of this servant is the greatest of sins, and the transgression of this shelterless one is greater than a mighty mountain. First forgive the shortcomings of this disordered one, then the sin of every ignorant wrongdoer.  AB07738

Now compose an ode describing this servant's servitude at the Sacred Threshold, one that embodies all humility, submissiveness, contrition, powerlessness and supplication, that my soul may be gladdened and my nostrils perfumed.  AB08541

A workman who had left his bag of tools in the hall was welcomed with smiling kindness by 'Abdu'l-Baha. With a look of sadness the man said: "I don't know much about religious things, as I have no time for anything but my work."  ABU3536

The ones in real authority are known by their humility and self-sacrifice and show no attitude of superiority over the friends. Let the servant be known by his deeds, by his life! To be approved of God alone should be one's aim.  ABU0180

Then I submitted "Powerlessness and poverty." They said: "This is an acceptable gift, for it cannot be found at this Threshold." The purpose is that any soul who is in the utmost poverty, powerlessness and weakness is acceptable.  AB08388

In the days of the Blessed Beauty, I never had a desire to write. The friends even complained about it. In reply I finally wrote to Varqa saying, 'When the shrill of the Supreme Pen can be heard, what is the need of my writing?'   ABU2995

Make thy provision the Word that hath issued from My mouth at the time of thy turning toward the land of Baha, thy shield the fear of God, and thy weapon humility and lowliness before the face of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH01584

O my God! In this state, having closed mine eyes to myself - for verily I possess neither profit nor harm, neither life nor resurrection for my own self - I make representation to Thy chosen ones, Thy pure ones and Thy loved ones.   BH00902

I lower my wings and humble myself in the dust of servitude before the might of Thy Divinity and the greatness of Thy Lordship, acknowledging my errors and my great sins and my abundant shortcomings and transgressions and misdeeds.  AB05937

Yet sometimes when consciousness and fairness are attained through God's grace, I feel shame and embarrassment to mention a Purpose of which I have no knowledge except to the known degree which He Himself has taught and made known.   BH01628

Should I say I desire to remember Thee by such remembrances, I see this is not my station or rank. Nay, were the thought of this station to cross my mind, I would have committed a sin beyond compare with any other sin in existence.   BH01626

Behold me, then, O my God, fallen prostrate upon the dust before Thee, confessing my powerlessness and Thine omnipotence, my poverty and Thy wealth, mine evanescence and Thine eternity, mine utter abasement and Thine infinite glory.  BH00769

Know ye of a certainty that in this Day whosoever, with utter humility and lowliness, submission and meekness, absolute nothingness and complete evanescence, diffuses the divine fragrances, the Kingdom of existence will confirm them  AB04750

And know with certainty that there is no glory for man except servitude to Baha, and no eternal life except in complete effacement and annihilation. Until one becomes effaced in the Truth, one cannot become eternal through the Truth.   AB01475

An intelligent man is never vain nor does he inflate himself with the idea of personal superiority. Nay rather he is ever humble and meek. By considering himself inferior to others, his own spiritual station is unconsciously promoted.  ABU2908

By the life of the Beloved! Were I not beholding His wisdom, I would not have mentioned Myself save in pure servitude, for this is the desire of My heart, and unto this testify My spirit, My soul and My being, could ye but understand.   BH02168

This evanescent servant requests that you convey expressions of his utter nothingness and evanescence...Without God's grace and His mercy and compassion, this servant has been and is as one non-existent, and has been and is as nothing.  BH01156

We must not look to ourselves, for we are poor, abject, as nothing, and seeking refuge. Rather must we fix our gaze upon the benevolence and favors of the Incomparable Lord, which is an endless ocean and a luminous star in the heavens.  AB05203

God addresses them thus only for a wisdom, that those possessed of understanding might humble themselves and submit, and abase themselves before the Mighty, the Bestower, and not become proud even if they ascend to the highest chambers.  AB00134

Know thou that I have never seen myself except as less in worth, more transient in station, and more remote in position than the smallest particle divided infinitely into parts taken from the tenth degree multiplied by itself infinitely.  BB00186

I sprinkle the dust of servitude upon my head, but the poets place a crown of grandeur upon my head. I taste the sweetness of the honey of servitude, while they pour the bitter drink of magnificence, majesty and loftiness into my mouth.   AB03204

He was a very poor man living in the desert who used to earn a scantly living by digging up thorns and selling them in the city. It was a very small humble hut made with reeds put together in triangular shape with a small entrance to it.  ABU1095

Now, with utmost humility and submissiveness in servitude and bondage to the servants of the threshold of the Abha Beauty, accompany and agree with 'Abdu'l-Baha. Be self-effacing before all and rid thyself of all existence before everyone  AB11839

O thou servant of the Ancient Beauty! Praise be to God that thou hast been enabled to express thy servitude to this servant...who speaketh of my servitude unto God, and my self-effacement, abasement and contrition at His exalted threshold.  AB07950

Glory be unto Thee, O Lord! I am the poor and Thou art the Rich; I am the lowly and Thou art the Great; I am the powerless and Thou art the Powerful; I am the abased and Thou art the Mighty; I am the distressed and Thou art the All-Powerful.  BB00565

Verily, I, with great humbleness and submissiveness before the abundance of His mercy, do roll my face upon the dust to make thee a sign of unity and a gift of mercy, that thou mayest be, in all aspects and cases, near to the Kingdom of God.  AB07706

Inspire them, O my Lord, with a sense of their own powerlessness before Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy Self, and teach them to recognize the poverty of their own nature in the face of the manifold tokens of Thy self-sufficiency and riches  BH05408

Verily, I pray God to make thee firm in this Path; to cause thee to enter the Ark of Safety; and to strengthen thee in becoming humble and meek to the maid-servants of the Merciful, and in overcoming self and passion through the power from God.  AB09124

But when thou meetest the loved ones of God, become an obedient son and a nursing child...The more thou showest humility before these brilliant stars and shining orbs, the more will thy power of fatherhood increase and thy paternal authority grow.  AB06050

Abdul-Baha, with utmost supplication and fear and awe of divine tests, implores the Abha Kingdom and beseeches firmness and steadfastness, so that he may remain stable and established at the center of servitude with complete humility and contrition.   AB03422

It is my station and my mission that I should glory in the Supreme Concourse that I am the lowliest servant of the friends of the Abha Beauty, and in the Abha Kingdom I take pride that I am the humblest bondsman of the friends of the Most Great Name.  AB09483

"How sweet it is, O my God, in moments of helplessness to acknowledge weakness and brokenness and to shun pride and arrogance. Sufficient for me, O my God, is my helplessness, my poverty, my lowliness, my abasement, my evanescence and my nothingness."   AB00528

From earliest childhood this palate has drunk pure milk from the breast of servitude, and been nurtured in the embrace of subjection, growing accustomed to servanthood rather than lordship, and finding joy in humility and lowliness rather than exaltation.  AB07621

O servant of the Court of the Most Glorious Beauty! We beseech from the favors of the Hidden Essence of Identity that you may place that crown of service and servitude to the Court of Divine Unity upon your head and glory over all the nobles of the world   AB11993

O Samandar! We bear witness that he was mounted upon the finest steed in all the world and was seated in the most exalted carriage of all nations, for this walking on foot is a testament to humility, submissiveness, resignation, contentment and detachment.  BH00691

It is my station and my mission that I take pride in the Supreme Concourse that I am the lowliest servant of the friends of the Most Glorious Beauty, and in the Abha Kingdom I glory that I am the most humble attendant of the friends of the Most Great Name.  AB09483

Another supplication of this evanescent servant to your honor is that if you write to the Afnans - upon them be all the most glorious Glory - kindly convey on behalf of this servant to each one of them expressions of utter effacement and complete nothingness.   BH00906

O my God! I am as nothing, that I should stand before the presence of the city of Thy holiness in praise, and I am, O my Beloved, less than the smallest particle of an atom, that there should be for me a station before the court of Thy sanctity in faithfulness   BB00209

Our glory and pride is that we are servants of this court and dust at the threshold of this shrine. Who are we? What are we? Whatever has been and is, is Him, and whatever emanates upon the world of existence are the names and attributes of the Beloved Friend.   AB02570

Therefore 'Abdu'l-Baha's constant wish is that he too may become aware that he is but a particle, yet visible in the ray of the sun, and a drop, yet confirmed through the assistance of the Ocean of Oceans. When he looks at himself he becomes ashamed and abased   AB01666

My God, my God! These are servants who are abased before the glory of Thy Lordship, who bow down at the threshold of Thy mercy, who are humbled before Thy might and the majesty of Thy oneness, who are turned toward Thee and trust in Thee and supplicate before Thee.  AB04129

Today the eternal glory of the human world lies not in attributes and qualities of pride. I have addressed thee as the humble 'Ali for this reason: the greatness of you and me and the honor and station of all lies in servitude and lowliness at His blessed Threshold.  AB08800

O esteemed Hajj! I am indeed of little means and great need, devoid of power and stripped of strength, extremely weak and full of compassion. How is this possible for me? Can a drop have waves, or an atom reach heights, or dust have existence, or air have presence?   AB02413

Therefore 'Abdu'l-Baha with the utmost contrition, fear and apprehension of the tests of God implores toward the Kingdom of Abha and beseeches for the gifts of Firmness and Steadfastness and with the utmost humility and meekness entreats constancy and determination.  ABU2695

Now it has become evident, for night and day I am consumed with this regret that no service was rendered by my hands and I was not successful in any act of obedience. How can I raise my head in shame before the Friend, when no worthy service was rendered by my hands?  AB07381

Every time I intended to make mention of Thee, such perspiration of shame encompassed me that I found myself bewildered and dumbfounded. How can a tongue of rebellion be capable of mentioning that station where pure sanctification itself is counted among the sinners?   BH02086

As for thy expression of humility and lowliness before the Most Holy Court, after it was presented, these blessed words were spoken: This humility and lowliness of thine is, before God, exalted be His glory, greater than the might and power of those who possess power.  BH11693

I swear by the blessed, holy and sanctified spirit of that Sun of Truth, the Lord of the House (may my spirit, being and essence be sacrificed for its dust), that the ultimate desire of my heart and soul is to be honored to sweep that pure threshold with my eyelashes.  AB02294

"This is evident that 'Abdu'l-Baha is a servant among the servants of Baha. His very existence is in prostration... Know this: that in truth, in essence, in identity, in attributes, in capacity and in worthiness, I am the servant of the servants of the Beauty of Abha."  AB09201

Then the awning of the mercy of thy Lord will be hoisted and those souls who are free from the filth of prejudice, contradictions and presumption and are filled with a love that imparts affinity, intimacy, affection, meekness and humbleness will be sheltered under it.   AB06429

This servant and your honor and all friends must pray that perchance doubts and vain imaginings may be truly lifted from among the people and that the friends of Truth may hold fast unto the cord of providence with perfect humility and submissiveness and pure servitude.   BH01055

"That which is conducive to the progress of souls, is humility and meekness, gentleness and evanescence. Every individual must suppose another to be the possessor of a gift of which he himself is deprived. This will cause every one to be humble and meek before another."   ABU0467

O Lord! We are weak ones; shelter us in the cave of Thy might and power. We are poor; enrich us from the treasuries of Thy grace and bounty. We are helpless; we have taken refuge at the gate of Thy oneness. We are sick; we have sought healing from the source of Thy cure.  AB00281

Then walk upon the earth in humility, without sandals, in the manner of a soul whom the All-Merciful shall call to account on the Day of Judgment - and thou hast indeed come to know this with true knowledge. And glorify God secretly in thy walk with the greatest tranquility.  BB00077

I regret most exceedingly that up to this time I have been unable to render one worthy service to the Cause of God and the believers of the Merciful. I confess my own shortcomings; Although from a general standpoint no man can render adequate service at the Divine Threshold.   ABU0418

The temple of this servant is adorned with the raiment of lowliness, not the garment of pride, and the head of this lowly one is honored by the crown of humility and need, not of privilege and distinction. We are all servants at the Threshold and self-sacrificing attendants.   AB00410

One must always search for his own shortcomings so that he may repent at the threshold of Oneness and become protected and guarded; otherwise, pride and haughtiness will take possession of one's heart and this will cause deprivation of the bounties of the Court of Singleness.  AB11285

Despite the fact that you have known repeatedly, in absence and in presence, that 'Abdu'l-Baha's utmost aspiration and desire is servitude to the holy Threshold and nothing else, and that besides this any mention He considers a sting and becomes infinitely saddened and grieved   AB06932

O thou kind Lord! What fruits can human endeavours and the striving of a destitute bird bring forth without Divine confirmation, decree and guidance? In the end, it will be doomed to loss, disappointment and penitence. We are incapable, powerless, weak, feeble and contemptible.  AB02379

'Abdu'l-Baha wishes to share and participate with the friends in servitude at the threshold of Baha, but is ashamed and embarrassed, lamenting night and day and repeating this verse: "How can I raise my head in shame before the Friend, When no worthy service came from my hand?"  AB01083

'Abdu'l-Baha demonstrates humility by preferring to be called simply "'Abdu'l-Baha" and stating "One cannot speak in glorification of one's self. The others should do that. If one says, 'I am polite. I have done such and such good actions,' - that would be a sign of hypocrisy."   ABU0628

so that you may become a partner and intimate companion with 'Abdu'l-Baha in humility and submissiveness, in supplication and devotion, in lowliness and neediness. Such is the characteristic of every penitent servant who has sincerely turned his face to God, the Lord of all worlds.  AB08509

Thou art a servant, but in reality thou art ministered unto; a steward, but, in truth, master of all. The Spirit [Jesus] hath said: "...If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all and servant of all. ...and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant."  AB11928

"But that which is essential to the acknowledgment of this word is attraction to the love of God, service to the Cause of God, diffusing the Word of God, severance from all else save God, affinity, union and oneness, humility, meekness, nothingness and servitude to the beloved of God."  AB03878

I am but a feeble ant which Thou hast led to the court of Thy majesty and generosity. I am as one lost, Thou hast guided me to the most great shelter and the impenetrable sanctuary. I am sore sick, Thou hast bestowed divine healing. I am abased, Thou hast showered upon me eternal glory.  AB01154

By the might of Thy Essence and the greatness of Thy names, I have acknowledged servitude and shortcoming in every matter before Thee, and I seek Thy forgiveness for whatsoever Thou detestest in the path of Thy good-pleasure, and I turn unto Thee as befitteth Thee and as Thou deservest.   BB00194

Show honor and respect, care and service. Consider yourselves as servants and others as masters. Account yourselves as imperfect and all others as perfect. That is, conduct yourselves as an imperfect one would show respect to a perfect being, or as one lowly would behave before one great.  AB00749

Yes, this befits souls who are content and pleasing to God, and in this station, shame is the essence of nobility and the magnet that attracts divine assistance and grace. A servant must be like this, even if he be a lamp from the highest heaven - he should always see his own shortcomings.   AB02114

How can I raise my head in shame before my friend, When no worthy service could be rendered by my hand? However, the most earnest recommendations were made to the Afnans - whether Aqa Mirza Buzurg, Aqa Siyyid Muhammad, or Aqa Mirza Aqa - and encouragement and urging for partnership was given.  AB08663

O my God! My very existence is a sin, so how then when I commit another sin? My Lord, I know that were I to perform for Thee every deed encompassed by Thy knowledge, I would not have remembered Thee as Thou hast remembered me, nor would I have known Thee as Thou hast made Thyself known to me.   BB00342

There is no station more glorious than to be a servant of the friends of God. The servant of God's beloved ones is a servant of the Blessed Beauty. The slave of God's beloved ones is a slave of the Blessed Beauty. But with complete sincerity of heart and perfect humility and submissiveness...   ABU2859

O God! You know that if someone were to strike my heart, it would be more pleasant to me than for someone to reinterpret this explicit statement. O Lord! You know that my veins, roots, limbs, members, pillars, soul and heart tremble and burn at any word other than servitude to the Abha Beauty.   AB02929

Therefore, O my God, what is the state of my soul which is lower than dust that it should praise the Mighty, the All-Bestowing?...and cause me to take refuge in the nest of my silence and stillness and deprivation, and to acknowledge and confess my lowliness and neediness and poverty and want.   AB00681

This is my glory: to be abased at Thy gate. This is my wealth: to be poor before Thy presence. This is my strength: to be weak in Thy court. By Thy glory! I rejoice only when I am addressed as a lowly servant in Thy presence, and am gladdened only when I am called a feeble bondsman in Thy court.  AB08400

Humble thyself before Me, that I may graciously visit thee. Arise for the triumph of My cause, that while yet on earth thou mayest obtain the victory. Transgress not thy limits, nor claim that which beseemeth thee not. Prostrate thyself before the countenance of thy God, the Lord of might and power.  BH00386

As you are Afnans of the Blessed Tree, you must exercise the utmost care in all matters and avoid suspecting others as much as possible. I beseech God to increase, day by day, your faith and certitude, your humility and submissiveness, your poverty and self-effacement, and your complete evanescence.   AB00584

My tongue is weary of speech, my wing is broken from flight, my mind is bewildered from comprehension, and my capacity falls short of true knowledge. I remember Thee while acknowledging my error in praising Thee, and my inadequacy and lassitude in offering laudations and attributes before Thy Holy Court.   AB00346

We are all but lowly servants at Thy door, helpless ones standing before Thy Threshold, poor ones in the face of the ocean of Thy wealth, abased ones bearing witness to the revelation of any one of Thy signs, ignorant ones when brought face to face before the effulgent glimmer of the light of Thy knowledge.   AB01544

Despite this great powerlessness and extreme abasement, how can I utter Thy praise and ascend to the heaven of the excellence of Thy knowledge? I have naught but silence before the surging ocean of Thy mention and attributes, and nothing save confession of inability to ascend to the Kingdom of descriptions.   AB01755

O thou Name! Beware lest this station make thee heedless of humility before God, the Almighty, the Powerful. Know thou that thy relationship to Us is as the relationship of all else - there is no difference between thee and what is beneath thee of all that hath been created between the heavens and the earth.   BH00195

I never heard him mention the details of his ordeals and trials in the Path of Abha. This was all that I heard from Mirza Abul Fazl about the time of his imprisonment. This was also of course in the praise of the courage of one of his fellow-prisoners. He did not say: 'I said so and so; I suffered so and so...'  ABU0444

I am an evanescent drop, and the bounty of the Most Glorious Kingdom is the boundless ocean. I am a withered atom, and the favors of the Blessed Beauty are the brilliant and radiant sun. If the atom becomes visible, it is through the rays of the sun; if the drop creates a wave, it is from the surge of the ocean.  AB10597

Speak of my servitude unto God, of my humbleness and submissiveness to the Beloved of God, and of my evanescence, nothingness and utter meekness to the Threshold of Baha. Verily, I am the servant of Baha, the slave of Baha and the captive of Baha. I have no grade but this and I do not possess anything for myself.  AB07776

I swear by the Ancient Beauty that if I had time and found opportunity, I would wish to serve and show humility and submissiveness before each one of the friends. But what can I do, as I have neither opportunity nor time nor strength nor power nor ability? Therefore I am ashamed and restless and weary of myself.   AB03511

That faithful friend is truly self-sacrificing and detached from name and fame. He treads the path of evanescence and seeks the good-pleasure of Baha'u'llah. Would that 'Abdu'l-Baha could also achieve this so that servitude to the Threshold would be realized. Until now nothing but shortcoming has appeared from me  AB02120

Each soul must strive to follow others and show greater humility and submissiveness, always seeing deficiency in himself and keeping his own sins before his eyes. He should never utter a word indicating displeasure, never complain about anyone, open his mouth in thanksgiving, and praise and extol all the friends.  AB01310

Rather, this servant of Thine is a servant to those who serve Thee, prostrate before those who prostrate themselves to Thee, a servant to those who serve Thy Cause, submissive to Thy sovereignty, a helper to those who seek Thee, and an aid to those who aid Thee in Thy heaven and desire to assist Thee in Thy lands.  BH00623

Perhaps you have heard something about Ibn-Abhar. He is a Persian teacher and one of the greatest in knowledge and spirituality and holds a very high position among the believers' still, when asked by anyone about any other certain believer he generally replies, "I am not worth to unloose the latchet of his shoes."   ABU0115

When any soul turns unto the omnipotent Lord with perfect humility and submissiveness, and becomes abashed and ashamed of his own shortcomings, there is no doubt that such a soul is inspired by divine inspiration, for there is no excellence greater than when a person discovers and acknowledges his own imperfections.  AB09780

O friends! Show forth a mighty effort, spread your wings, and soar in these luminous heights until ye become the essence of humility and are effaced and annihilated from your own existence. Through the intensity of your submissiveness, become like unto the earth trodden under foot, yet bestowing bounty and blessing.  AB11383

In order to offer our thankfulness to the Beauty of Abha for this Bestowal and Gift day by day we must increase our effort and exertion, day by day we must add to our meekness and humility, we must augment our faith and assurance and know of a certainty that all these things belong to Him and not through our exertion.   ABU1272

Thank God, because the first self-conceited one was Satan. A man must never consider himself greater than others. Rather, he must always be humble and self-effacing. The bird, as long as it sees itself at a low level, is given impetus to soar and progress; but the moment it fancies itself high in the air, it begins to descend.   ABU0799

Know therefore that the highest hope of this wingless bird is to soar in the apex of servitude, not that of freedom; to fly in the nadir of thraldom, not the apogee of lordship. Upon the brow of this servant, the crown of servitude is preferable to the diadem of lordship, for this hath ever been, and is now, my pride and glory.   AB03763

The divine friends must deal and associate with each other in the utmost humility and submissiveness, so that self-effacement, evanescence, servitude and faithfulness may govern the pillars of existence. "The master of the people is their servant." "Whoever wishes to be first among you must be your master must be your servant."   AB00290

This is not a human deficiency - did you not observe how this servant renders service and servitude to each of the friends and with what humility and submissiveness I stood and served? By God the Truth, 'Abdu'l-Baha's utmost hope and desire is humility and submissiveness before God's loved ones and self-effacement before God's friends.   AB00557

O my Lord! Thou seest the poor one hastening to the gate of Thy bounty and the weary one turning toward the kingdom of Thy utterance. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which lieth with Thee. O my God, my Lord, my Master and my Hope! I testify that I know not what profiteth me in Thy worlds. Thou knowest me better than I know myself.  BH05108

He, indeed, is endued with understanding who acknowledgeth his powerlessness and confesseth his sinfulness, for should any created thing lay claim to any existence, when confronted with the infinite wonders of Thy Revelation, so blasphemous a pretension would be more heinous than any other crime in all the domains of Thine invention and creation.   BH03585

Glory be unto Thee! Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Glory be unto Thee! Glory be unto Thee, O my Beloved! How exalted are the stations of Thy sovereign glory, and how abject are the ranks of Thy servant's lowliness in his love for Thee! How resplendent are the manifestations of Thy wealth, and how evident are the expressions of poverty in Thy servant!   BH01072

For no sin is greater than that the non-existent should make mention of the King of existence, or that the evanescent should manifest itself before the Worshipped One, for by this would be affirmed the existence of aught beside Thee in the court of Thy glorious unity, and the appearance of aught other than Thee at the dawning of the sun of Thy oneness  BH01776

I will supplicate the Abha Kingdom and seek forgiveness and pardon of your transgressions, that you may be preserved from self-worship and self-admiration, and see yourselves as mere atoms visible in the rays of the sun. In accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah, may you attain the utmost humility, submissiveness, self-effacement and evanescence.  AB11374

Knowing this and fearing I may grow negligent and fail to appreciate thy bounty and love, I come here each night to pray God that I shall ever remain grateful to thee for thy goodness, bringing with me my old peasant clothes, which I put on, and then sleep in the humble bed in which I slept when thy love and mercy first lifted me up from my lowly state.   ABU1346

O servant of Baha! From the pen name of that prince of poets the meaning of humility and submissiveness is inferred, and the reality of lowliness and devotion is understood. Glory be to God! Lowliness adorns human reality while servility leads to pride and transgression. The former is a remedy for every ailment while the latter is a dagger to every heart.  AB09849

During the events that came to pass, they were the embodiments of utter meekness and even interceded on behalf of the murderers before the governor. Yet the envy and hatred of the heedless only increased; this bountiful grace held no value in their eyes and brought forth no fruit or result. Absolute meekness yieldeth many a result and beareth many a fruit.  BH00159

The man of insight is ever abashed and humbled, for he describes Him Who all limbs and members acknowledge through the word indescribable, and makes mention of that Station which is confessed through the word unmentionable. Every person of experience detects from description the fragrance of limitation, and from mention and praise the scent of comprehension.  BH00019

"I have a few friends in different cities who love me," was the reply. "No; it is not," replied 'Abdul-Baha, "but many there who are not Baha'is, are influenced by our Teachings." "No," and again 'Abdul-Baha reiterated the non-importance of numbers. The journalist seemed very much taken aback. He evidently expected 'Abdul-Baha to boast of a large following."  ABU2763

We must always think of our own humility and poverty. We must realize that we are simply nothing, less than nothing. All that we have in this world is through the Bounty and Favor of the King of Kings. We must think and ponder over our origin: What are we? Who are we? It is only through His Grace and Bestowal that we have attained to these spiritual stations.  ABU0741

"So Abdul-Baha wishes a sin covering eye and conceals the people's faults as far as possible; for he considers himself incapable and deficient in the Servitude of the Lord. Therefore, being engaged in his own short-comings, he does not care about the sins of others, but always ask remission and forgiveness for them, and seeks bounty and grace in their behalf."   AB01161

O my dear one! This day is the day of purification, the day of sanctification, the day of turning toward God, the day of severance from all else save God, the day of lowliness and humiliation, the day of serving the beloved ones of God, the day of becoming utterly destitute of and free from egotism and desire and the day of purity and sacrifice in the path of God.   AB07053

O friend! I implore to God to make thee a banner of the banners of the Kingdom, firm and steadfast, unshaken by the most severe winds of tests and trials in this terrestrial world; to confirm thee in the servitude of the Sublime Threshold; to guide through thee many souls and to make thee a sign of meekness and humbleness before the beloved of God, the Mighty, the Protecting!   AB01444

Man must know the value and always be grateful. One must know the value and be grateful, and take refuge in God from self-centeredness. Man must remain in a state of fear and hope. When one thinks of slipping, one's bones should shatter, yet one should not despair of God's threshold. If I write even a single greeting, I know it is through the aid and grace of the Blessed Beauty.   ABU1358

The expressions which indicated the utmost humility, submissiveness and desire to serve His Holiness the Wise One became the cause of joy, spirit and fragrance. Praise be to God that among the servants of the Blessed Beauty souls have been raised up who yearn for pure servitude to the divine servants and who show such humility and submissiveness in the presence of the loved ones.  AB08637

Apart from various affairs, meetings, occupations, and endless concerns, a journey was made to the Western world with a stay of several days. The intention was that despite utmost weakness, a mighty call might be raised, hoping for the aid and favor of the Blessed Beauty - otherwise what power has this feeble gnat, what strength and might has this atom of poverty and evanescence?   AB00163

The Ancient Beauty nursed 'Abdu'l-Baha from the breast of servitude and nurtured him in the embrace of effacement, evanescence, servitude and detachment. I swear by the face, hair and nature of that peerless Beloved that nothing is sweet to my taste except the honey of servitude, and nothing causes my joy and delight except the pure wine of complete effacement and utter extinction.  AB01449

He has named himself Abdu'l-Baha and placed the crown of this servitude upon his head. This diadem from the brilliant jewels of the Great Treasure is what he has chosen to wear upon his head... For the Holy Manifestations always arose to establish the exaltation of their own station, while this servant Baha's endeavor is toward effacement and establishing servitude and his own abasement.  AB01446

"Oh, my King," replied Ios, "When first I beheld thee I was a poor ignorant shepherd boy, but thou hast raised me to this lofty state through thy pure bounty and generosity, therefore, I never wish to forget from what I came, but to remain ever humble and grateful to thee. Thus I come each night to reflect on what I was and what Thou has made me through Thy bounty, generosity and favor."   ABU0167

Know thou, therefore, that this garment of servitude is a robe of everlasting glory on thy shoulders and this dust of thraldom to which thou hast stooped is a diadem worthy of princes in the Realm of eternity. It is for this same reason that the treasured crown of this lowly one is to be a servant at the threshold of the Abha Beauty and my greatest glory is to attain this station of thraldom.  AB06728

In reality, how much does ambition debase man! Conversely, humility and evanescence elevate him. He sought everything but found nothing. In contrast, Aqa Mirza Haydar-'Ali sought nothing but found everything. Day by day, whatever the former wanted and did not find, the latter found without wanting it. The former was in sobriety but became effaced, while the latter was effaced but attained sobriety.  ABU1739

I beseech Thy trusted, pure and God-fearing servants, and I implore Thy chosen, faithful, noble and distinguished bondsmen, to address me as 'Abdu'l-Baha and to abandon every title, attribute, praise and commendation save this glorious praise...O Lord! Preserve me from every title, attribute and name that may be uttered by the tongue of Thy loved ones, save the word that signifies servitude to Thy Baha  AB11850

When the loved ones of God gather in any assembly or meeting, such humility and submissiveness should be manifest from each in glorifying and sanctifying God that the very atoms of dust in that place would testify to the sincerity of that gathering, and the spiritual utterances of those pure souls would so move these atoms that they would not declare in the tongue of their being, "I am superior to you"   BH01034

Let no one address me or mention me except by this mighty attribute [of servitude]. This is the attribute that expandeth my breast, gladdeneth my spirit, refresheth my heart, causeth my branch to flourish, perfumeth my nostrils, illumineth my face, brighteneth mine eye, delighteth mine ear - and I have no name, nor sign, nor attribute, nor description, nor title, nor praise except this wise remembrance.   AB01879

In Mazandaran one night when Quddus met Babu'l-Bab and heard words of grace and wisdom from his tongue, he immediately arose to serve him like a humble servant. In the morning the companions saw that although Babu'l-Bab was the leader of the companions and master of the friends, he stood with utmost reverence before Quddus with hands folded across his chest, such that all were astonished at his humility.   ABU1370

Walk not in the paths of pride and arrogance. Be humble before His countenance, submissive before His beauty, and prostrate before His Self, the Mighty, the Beloved. What is desired today is that all should appear among people with purity, sanctity, humility, submissiveness and pure servitude, so that all people may turn toward God's direction through witnessing the deeds and actions of those assured souls.   BH00890

Know ye the value of this consummate bounty, and regard yourselves as sheer nothingness, complete poverty, and utter weakness. Whosoever becometh more evanescent becometh more lasting, and whosoever becometh poorer becometh richer. Honor is commensurate with affliction, and greatness in proportion to lowliness. This is the characteristic of God's well-favored ones and the attribute of those who are virtuous.  AB06326

'Abdu'l-Baha with such humility, submissiveness, poverty and self-effacement teaches all and explicitly cries out "Become manifest to the claimants that 'Abbas was but a dog at Thy threshold." We are all servants at that Threshold, lowly and watchful. If there is any glory it lies in effacement, nothingness and servitude at the Sacred Threshold - otherwise the sovereignty of both worlds is the greatest abasement.   AB02278

Rather, one should say: Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I am but one of Thy servants, and an atom in the realms of Thy creation. Had it not been for Thy inspiration of Thy praise, Thy support in Thy remembrance, Thy teaching me the interpretation of Thy verses, and Thy establishing me in Thy Cause, I would have been scattered dust, a vanishing shadow, and a mirage in the desert which the thirsty imagines to be water.  AB03551

For instance, if someone shows humility for God's sake toward the friends of God, this humility in truth returns to God, as it stems from his faith in God. In this case, if the other person does not reciprocate in like manner or displays pride, the insightful person has attained and will attain to the exaltation of his own deed and its reward, while the harmful effect of the opposing person's action returns to himself.  AB09674

Therefore, regarding this servant and other friends who have drunk from the cup of Baha, if in the station of description you would mention them with these words that were stated, it has been and will be more beloved in the sight of God, for glory and grandeur and majesty and all names and their kingdom and all attributes and their dominion have circled and will circle round the Ancient Being, and none besides Him is worthy.  BH11706

And now you must, through the assistance and grace of the Most Glorious Beauty, be in the utmost joy, gladness and delight, and soar to such heights that your humility becometh the radiance of sovereignty in both worlds, your servitude the essence of spirituality in both realms, your prostration the vision of the Beauty of the Lord of the East and the Lord of the West, and your bowing down the rising of the lights of both horizons.  AB00458

This servant's freedom lies in this bondage, and his sacred glory in servitude at the Sacred Threshold. Therefore we must all arise with utmost strength to serve and show servitude to the Ancient Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones), so that we may illumine the horizons with the lights of servitude and bestow life upon the world of existence through the spirit of poverty, evanescence, helplessness and supplication   AB02001

Although my very existence is absolute sin, yet since my heart is steadfast in the unity of God, exalted be His remembrance, in the prophethood of His Messenger, and in the authority of those who possess His authority, and my tongue confesseth all that hath been revealed from God, I have hope in His mercy and have never desired aught contrary to His good-pleasure. This servant hath no knowledge whatsoever that would warrant any claim.   BB00460

I swear by the Sun of Truth that this servant sees himself as lower than even a small bird, for that which today befits divine grace, this Day of God, and celestial bounty and mercy has not been manifested from him. For every good deed manifested by one of the loved ones, this servant utters Would that I..., and for every praiseworthy characteristic shown by one of the chosen ones, this ephemeral one remembers Would that I were with him.  BH00332

"I see myself as utterly effaced and non-existent in the Most Holy Court...I am utter nothingness and absolute non-existence. I claim no station such that high and low, base and noble would be imagined, or inner and outer would be supposed, and I seek no matter such that obedient and disobedient, wavering and steadfast would be pursued. I am a servant among the servants of the Blessed Beauty and an atom in the light of the Sun of Oneness."  AB00375

How humble and meek he was! We tried our best to persuade him to keep a servant with him, he would gently decline. He desired to serve the believers personally. Whenever the believers and the non-believers called on him, although he was sick, weak and in fever, yet he would get up and prepare tea and serve his callers with his own hands. All his anxieties revolved around this one supreme object - to make people satisfied and happy at any cost.  ABU1025

This servant has always concealed himself in coarse garments made of camel hair, that I might not be known by any name nor described by any attribute. Although the ancient seas are ever flowing in the heart through God's grace, not a drop thereof is manifest; and though the scrolls of inner meanings are hidden in the breast, not a letter thereof appears on any tablet. No thought have I save utter servitude, no purpose save complete nothingness.   BH00507

For this reason His Holiness Christ says:- 'the last shall be the first, the least amongst you in the Kingdom is the greatest.' Whosoever desires to walk in the Path of the Kingdom - so that he may reach the Court of the Almighty - he must be a true servant. The Path of God cannot be compared with the paths of men. The humbler is man in the Path of God, the more exalted is he; the greater is his meekness and submissiveness the more beloved is he  ABU2061

I commune with Thee, O my God, my face bowed to the dust, awaiting the wonders of Thy favors, my forehead rubbing against the earth in humility before Thy glory and sovereignty, supplicating Thy kingdom, entreating Thy dominion, hoping for Thy pardon and forgiveness, seeking Thy grace and benevolence. I know not by what countenance to turn to Thee, with what heart to place my trust in Thee, with what spirit to make humble supplication before Thee.  AB00260

God forbid that from the mention of these divine words such a thought should arise that this servant claims one word of these stations. I seek God's forgiveness from this! Verily, I am a servant who hath believed in God and His signs, and I have no station save that of utter abasement, lowliness, weakness, and nothingness in all conditions and circumstances, and I have no hope save that of pure servitude unto God, the True, the Mighty, the Compelling.  AB00008

Glory be to God! How can there be existence for aught else before the manifestation of Him Who is the Sovereign Truth? What station hath nothingness in the presence of the revelation of the standards of pre-existence? What mention can be made of the ephemeral before the Eternal Throne? Where is the non-existent servant in the court of the Sovereign Lord? What position hath the slave before the Master, or the abject before the Mighty, or the lowly before the Exalted?  BH00232

you must entirely forget your former conduct and behavior, and show the utmost humility and lowliness toward the loved ones of God. Never cause any heart to be saddened. You associated with Abdul-Baha for a time and observed his conduct, behavior, humility and lowliness. This was the pattern to follow. We must be like dust and earth, and be humble servants before even the weakest of the friends, let alone the chosen loved ones - may my spirit be sacrificed for them.  AB03108

O divine friends! The thick cloud that today prevents the Sun of Truth from shining is the cloud of self and desire, and the mist of pride and vainglory of the foolish. What causes the greatness of the human world is humility and submissiveness, evanescence and nothingness. For lowliness and brokenness are the resplendent crown of Abdul-Baha, and evanescence, nothingness, and utter self-effacement are the glorious diadem of this servant at the Threshold of the Almighty.   AB00080

How dare I venture to praise you or utter words of adulation in your presence? Nay, by your glory, I hold you above every description save your own self-description, and deem you sanctified beyond every attribute save those of your own essence. What am I and what right have I to stand before your glory? What am I and what station have I before your majesty? What am I and what position have I before your grandeur? What am I and what praise can I offer before your holy might?  BB00049

Hear My words: oppose not him who counsels you, be not impatient with him who admonishes you, and follow not your giving with injury. Rather, be humble before the loved ones of God, the Lord of the first and the last. Abandon learning, for it has barred you from the Sovereign of all knowledge. Prefer him who counsels you over yourself; better would it be for you to walk barefoot, sleep without a pillow, and lament in the wilderness than to sadden one who has believed and been guided.  BH00151

The attributes of Lordship and the titles of Divinity are reserved for the Sacred Being. The utmost praise and glorification for us is effacement and nothingness, weakness and lowliness at the Threshold of Grandeur. This is the supreme gift, this is the greatest mercy, this is the heaven of refuge, this is the most exalted paradise, this is the sovereignty of earth and heaven, this is transcendent glory, this is the sublime station, this is the great bounty, this is the manifest triumph.   AB00325

Day and night we are thinking of how we can render, through the aid and favour of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice at His Threshold, some small service. But alas, alas! What is a drop compared to the ocean? What is an atom compared to the sun? In spaces where the eagle of the heights of glory has lost its wing-feathers and broken its wings, what power or might can a weak gnat possess? Unless divine aid and grace encompass us and the confirmations of the Most Glorious Kingdom support us.  AB07775

During all the days of his life, I never heard from him the word I - 'I' said so or 'I' wrote so and so. He would say 'this servant requested them' or 'this servant begged the believers'. He never made a display of his knowledge nor wished to impress upon the minds of any person that he knew such and such a subject, or locked in his mind such and such an information. He was evanescent and lived in the station of nothingness. He was self-sacrificing at the Holy Threshold. No one inhaled from him the odor of superiority.  ABU1025

Blessed art thou, O Trustworthy One, for having adorned thy temple with the armor of humility and the robe of submissiveness, and thy head with the crown of detachment. If the loved ones attain to the sweetness of this station, they shall not remain deprived of the greatest bounty by the bounties of the world. Humility, submissiveness, and other praiseworthy attributes and goodly deeds are considered among the divine hosts under the Supreme Commander, and the Supreme Commander has been and ever shall be the fear of God.  BH00157

Repeatedly hath this exalted Word been revealed from the tongue of the Lord of all being: O My loved ones! For the sake of God, hold fast unto humility, submissiveness, patience and forbearance. By the Luminary of utterance which hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, whosoever attaineth unto that which hath been mentioned shall assuredly be assisted by God, exalted be His glory, and shall find himself victorious. Abasement in His path is an everlasting glory, and poverty in His love is eternal wealth.  BH03024

God willing, we hope that henceforth they will be seen as an unbroken circle, regarding the good of all as the good of each and the good of each as the good of all. This servant knoweth not what to say. Where are the souls that bow down before the face of God? Where are the hearts that are humble before God's command? Whoso truly attaineth unto the fragrance of these days, naught but humility and submissiveness will be manifest from him, for exaltation of station and loftiness of rank have been and shall be manifested through humility before God.   BH00543

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I am not an existence that I should implore before Thee, nor am I anything that I should mention myself before the court of Thy glory, nor am I a countenance that I should radiate in Thy kingdom, nor am I one who stands that I should raise the banners of Thy victory, nor am I a glory that I should shine in the heaven of Thy majestic manifestations, nor am I one who waits that I should await the days of Thy manifestation, nor am I one who sits that I should arise for Thy Cause, nor am I a presence that I should abide in the house of Thy glory.   BH00775

May my spirit be sacrificed for you! What can this heedless servant mention that would be worthy of your hearing, and what can this ignorant one present that would merit the attention of that Beloved One? For mere nothingness to show a trace of existence is a grievous sin, and for utter non-existence to claim being is a great error. I seek forgiveness from God for what I have said and say, have mentioned and mention, have described and describe, and for how I have moved and move, have spoken and speak, have acted and act. For in truth, when this servant observes himself with fairness, he has not seen and does not see himself worthy of anything.   BH00645

Humility and bashfulness are, in all cases, evidence of nobility. No matter how much one may sacrifice oneself in the path of God, hasten to the altar of love with utmost joy and exultation, be quickened in servitude at the Sacred Threshold by the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and become the manifestation of endless favors, still one remains abashed. For however much we may strive and be moved and cry out, we cannot fulfill the thanksgiving due for even a single one of God's bounties. Therefore we are ashamed, embarrassed, sorrowful, and bow our heads in humility. This bashfulness is sufficient proof of sincerity of purpose, nobility of nature, purity of character, and steadfastness in the Covenant of the Most Great Unity.  AB08406

Pride and haughtiness are the worst qualities. If a person becomes the possessor of the whole world he must not become proud. Humility is the most shining star in the crown of man.   ABU2699


And if ye appear among the servants with humility, submissiveness, and other qualities of truth, the hem of sanctity will remain pure and unstained from the calumnies of Satan and his manifestations, and the lies of the slanderers will become manifest and evident to all the peoples of the world.  BH01361


Their throne is the mat of humility, their honor is in suffering every lowliness in the path of the Loving Lord and their wealth is being empty-handed from the pomps of the world and its vanities and their provision is trusting in God and being severed from all that is on the earth and its wealth.  AB01747
O Dove of the Garden of Knowledge! We are all utter nothingness and absolute void in the Most Holy Court. Indeed, pure servitude at His holy threshold is our radiant crown and our glorious diadem.  AB12836
 
