
Be thou of the people of hell-fire, but be not a hypocrite. Be thou an unbeliever, but be not a plotter.  BH10203

"Say: Be not like those who call upon the All-Merciful with their tongues while following Satan in their deeds"   BH04264

They profess belief with their words while denying it through their deeds, as attesteth He with Whom is the Mother Book.   BH09999

How many are the servants who claim with their tongues what is not in their hearts, and God revealeth it through one means or another.   BH00986

Most people are hypocrites. One must reflect carefully until trustworthiness becomes evident, and then comes the station of uttering words.  BH04622

Thus do some souls outwardly utter one word while inwardly speaking another word contrary to the outward - such a soul hath been and will be a hypocrite and liar.   BH03136

Some of the Persian ambassadors are inwardly instigators while outwardly submissive. Glory be to God! When will this hypocrisy in the world be transformed into harmony?  BH05904

Those souls who attribute themselves to the All-Merciful yet act according to the ways of Satan - verily God was and ever shall be sanctified and holy above such souls.   BH09277

They have disbelieved with their tongues after their souls were convinced, and God hath taught them within their own souls that they are fresh disbelievers in God, the Exalted.  BB00002

It resembles many drunkards gathered together to protest against the drinking of alcohol. They say drink is horrible and they straightway go out from the house to drink again.   ABU3527

When they see the steadfast ones they say "We believe in God, the True King, the Transcendent, the Mighty, the Impregnable." But when they sit with their like they drink what they desire and speak according to their base passions.  BH04147

Good intention does not accept hypocrisy and dissimulation. How often it happens that someone performs a good deed but their intention is not pure - it is either for fame, or for honor, or out of desire for pride and haughtiness, or merely for show and leadership.  ABU1164

It is necessary to avoid and shun the hypocrite because they cause lethargy, rigidity, listlessness, heedlessness and coldness. Their influence is like severe winter cold - even if a person is in perfect health, intense cold produces weakness, trembling and illness.   AB05094

Now with the utmost craftiness and guile they profess love to each of the friends of God while subtly mentioning certain matters that perchance may hold back the people of God from the Most Exalted Horizon. Their honey concealeth poison, and their protestations of love mask hidden hatred.  BH07267

"Aye Sire! It was most wonderful!" they would all say in unison while bowing down to the ground. Finally one of them comes forward and says: "Your Majesty! This is all sham! We know nothing about this music. We are all like donkeys. We make all these protestations just to gain your favor."   ABU2641

And souls who have committed all manner of unseemly acts now display themselves in the garment of asceticism and attribute to this servant all that they has done. This is what was revealed in previous Books, that wolves would appear in sheep's clothing and busy themselves with deceiving people.   BH03082

They say with their tongues what is not in their hearts, and when they meet the believers they say 'We believe,' but when they are alone with their evil ones they say 'We were only mocking.' This is the character of these corrupters who for some time have been inciting people against this community.  ABU0328

Satan came by Mu'aviyih's bed and woke him to offer his obligatory prayer. Mu'aviyih said, "Satan, you never do any righteous deed. Tell the truth: For what purpose did you wake me from my slumber?" He responded, "The truth is that you lead prayers with conceit, arrogance and pride. The sin of so doing is greater than missing the prayer. Therefore, I awakened you. Otherwise, I do not do good."  ABU2311
