As to what was asked concerning the blessed word "He" appearing in the garment of "I," and hidden in "I am the One Witnessed," and its restriction in this Revelation: For the Daysprings of Divine Revelation and the Manifestations of His Cause there is, in every station, an utterance, and at every rank, a mention. At times they speak with "Verily, I am God," and at other times they utter "I am a servant who hath believed in God." Since this word hath been revealed in this Dispensation, it is specific thereto. For the birds of the Paradise of inner meanings, it is a melody when they are seated upon the throne of "I have with God a station," speaking with an utterance transcending the limited expressions current among men. The aforementioned word is but a single word, yet in the eyes of those endowed with insight, it hath been revealed from the King of Words through the Dawning-Places of Divine utterance, according to time and station, that which the world of existence is powerless and incapable of comprehending.  BH00436

The Wronged One beareth witness that He is verily the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling, Who hath appeared from the horizon of the Known and speaketh before the faces of all peoples: "There is none other God besides Him, the Mighty, the All-Knowing." O people of Baha! By God the Truth, none was intended by "He" except Myself. Thus hath the matter been decreed in the Book. BH09899

Whoso hath believed in Him hath believed in Mine own Self   BH10601

Complete individuality belongs only to the station of the Prophet.  ABU3200

Say: Nothing is ascribed unto God that is not likewise ascribed unto Him Whom God shall make manifest. This is the Path of God, from before and from after, if ye wish to follow it. Otherwise, it is all the same to God, from before and from after, in every condition, and unto Him do all worship. And all, in all conditions, belong to God and unto Him do all prostrate themselves.  BB00003

"Jesus is not separated from God, since He is the perfection of Divine Knowledge."  ABU2479

You are not Him in the station of Essence, nor is He other than you in the manifestation of attributes   BB00120

in His desire is seen naught save the desire of God, your Best-Beloved, the Most High, the Most Glorious, and in His Self naught save the Self of God   BH08003

Jesus was a Manifestation of God. Everything of him pertained to God. To know him was to know God. To have him was to have God. To obey him was to obey God.  ABU2876

Q: Is the Divine Manifestation, God?  A: Yes, and yet not in Essence. A Divine Manifestation is as a mirror reflecting the light of the Sun. The light is the same and yet the mirror is not the Sun.  ABU2108

By My life! He is I and I am He, and He is indeed the Essence of Power amidst creation and the Source of Authority for all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH03440

The 'Self' of GOD spoken of in the Tablets refers to the Attributes of the Merciful, not to His Essence. This 'Self' is found in 'Perfection' in the Prophet, only.   ABU3515

You are unity itself and the signs of abstraction... your reality ever transcends mention of names and attributes, and your being has always surpassed reference to similitudes and essences.  BB00337

Know thee that He is the Supreme Mirror of God, out of Whose Revelation is manifested the worldly Mirror, Which is naught but the Letters of the Living, and naught is seen in that Supreme Mirror of God but God.  BB00001

If any be set up by His side as peers, if they be regarded as identical with His Person, how can it, then, be maintained that the Divine Being is One and Incomparable, that His Essence is indivisible and peerless?   BH01652

'Ali-before-Muhammad is His Manifestation and His Concealment, His Name and His Beauty, His Mystery and His Light, His Cause and His Utterance, His Speech and His Word, His Wisdom and His Proof, His Evidence and His Revelation, His Word and His Sovereignty, His Grace and His Bounty   BH10835

There are here two suns - one, the Essence of God and the reflected one in the mirror though it is but one. One sun in Heaven, one sun in the mirror - in reality only one, not two. The sun which shines in the mirror says, "I am God" - he is right. So Jesus Christ says, "I am the Father."  ABU1760

The Reality of Christ is like a translucent mirror--the Sun of Divinity is inclusive of the properties which are manifested in it. By this we do not mean that the Sun has left his station and entered into the mirror. For the Reality of Divinity there is no ascent and descent, no entrance, and no exit.   ABU1345

He is the Light in the countenance of the Manifestation, and the One remembered in His heart, and the Beloved in His inner being, and the Speaker in His breast, and the One Who maketh mention upon His tongue, and the Doer through His limbs, and the Beholder through His sight, and the Hearer through His ear   BH10759

So the body of each Manifestation reflects the Splendor of God, for all the splendor of the Manifestation is from Him. The body itself has nothing which it can show forth; thus each Manifestation is fully under the Command of God, and if the Manifestation accepts or rejects, rebukes or praises, it means that God has done it.  ABU0356

The divine Manifestations are expressive of the attributes and perfections of God, the All-Praised, the Exalted. They are like mirrors placed before the Sun of Truth, so if they claim that the Sun of Truth is in them, they speak the truth. However, they mean that the signs and light of the Sun of Truth are in them, and not the Sun itself   ABU3134

Say: The gates of attainment and meeting are shut against the knowledge of His Essence. He hath manifested, through His grace, Eternal Manifestations and Dawning-Places of Oneness, that they might speak of their Manifestor among His creation and their Sender among His creatures. Their recognition is His recognition and meeting them is meeting Him.   BH00629

The differences between him and Thee are lifted save for the four stations of the judgment of his decree, for the differences in the letters are four, prepared - it is not He in mention, nor in gathering, nor in allusion, nor is He other than it. For Thou, O my God, hast made him the mirror of Thy Self and the one who standeth in the station of Thy oneness.   BB00152

And if it be said that the mirrors are the manifestations of the sun and the dawning-places of the daystar of the world, this is not meant to imply that the sun has descended from the heights of its sanctity or has become embodied in the mirror, or that that limitless Reality has been confined to this visible plane. God forbid! This is the belief of the anthropomorphists.   AB00105

Now, if we were to say that we have beheld the Sun in two mirrors--one Christ and the other the Holy Spirit--or, in other words, that we have seen three Suns, one in heaven and two upon the earth, we would be speaking the truth. And if we were to say that there is only one Sun, that it is absolute singleness, and that it has no peer or partner, we would again be speaking the truth.   AB00713

"The Word was with God." The Christhood means not the body of Jesus but the perfection of divine virtues manifest in Him. Therefore, it is written, "He is God." This does not imply separation from God, even as it is not possible to separate the rays of the sun from the sun. The reality of Christ was the embodiment of divine virtues and attributes of God. For in Divinity there is no duality.   ABU0385

I bear witness unto Muhammad as he hath testified unto himself at the Dawning-Place of response from Thy Being. Glorified art Thou, O my God! Thou art more exalted than that Thy beloved should be known by any soul or that anything should comprehend his knowledge. I bear witness unto his truth as Thou hast testified unto Thyself through him. None knoweth his reality save Thee alone, Who hath no partner.  BB00018

This is the meaning of the Messiah's words, that the Father is in the Son. Dost thou not see that should a stainless mirror proclaim, 'Verily is the sun ashine within me, together with all its qualities, tokens and signs', such an utterance by such a mirror would be neither deceptive nor false? No, by the One Who created It, shaped It, fashioned It, and made It to be an entity conformable to the attributes of the glory within It!   AB00083

The third station is that of Divine manifestation and the outpouring of ancient glory. In this station, all that pertains to Them is divine, and all that is expressed by Them is heavenly and of the Kingdom, for this station is neither of the contingent realm nor of the created world. Rather, it is a station sanctified above all earthly conditions. Whatever They decree in this station is identical with reality itself and must be attributed to God.   AB00345

Know thou of a certainty that the Unseen can in no wise incarnate His essence and reveal it unto men. He is, and hath ever been, immensely exalted beyond all that can either be recounted or perceived. From His retreat of glory His voice is ever proclaiming: "Verily, I am God; there is none other God besides Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. I have manifested Myself unto men, and have sent down Him Who is the Day Spring of the signs of My Revelation."   BH03835

Whosoever denieth this, hath denied Thy unity, and disputed with Thee about Thy sovereignty, and contended with Thee in Thy realm, and repudiated Thy commandments. Assist Thou Thy servants, O my Lord, to recognize Thy unity and to declare Thy oneness, that all may gather together around what Thou didst desire in this Day whereon the sun of Thine essence hath shone forth above the horizon of Thy will, and the moon of Thine own being hath risen from the Day-Spring of Thy behest.   BH04568

Rather, It speaks through the tongue of Its Manifestations, just as the Torah was revealed through the tongue of Moses, and God, exalted be His glory, mentioned all the laws of that time through the tongue of Him Who conversed with God. The same is true of other Holy Books which outwardly appeared from the tongue of the Prophets and Messengers, while in all cases the Speaker and Utterer was God - exalted be His glory, universal be His bounty, mighty be His power, and great be His station.  BH00091

Verily the essence of Ali was not the Essence of God, and his essence which appeared in the realm of creation is the essence which He attributed to Himself, and it is the essence of Ali, peace be upon him. The Book of God testifies to this where He says "God warns you of Himself." The Truthful One (Imam Sadiq), peace be upon him, interpreted this to mean that He warns you not to consider Muhammad as created, for if he were created, then the Essence would be temporal and created, and this would be clear infidelity.   BB00238

Until now, the station of the Manifestation Himself hath remained concealed. None hath attained unto the light of true Divine Unity save whom God willeth. The purpose is that the station of the Manifestation be made known. For example, the Apostle of God - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - is the Manifestation of "He doeth whatsoever He willeth and ordaineth whatsoever He pleaseth" and is established upon the throne of "He shall not be asked of His doings." In this station, He hath no partner or peer; nay, none is even mentioned in that realm, and all were created by His Word.   BH00319

The difference between the Baha'is and certain past religions and sects is this:- They believe that there is God and there are creatures. Some believe that the essence of God has become vocal in a human personality; others believe that the essence of God is divided into myriads of particles or sparks and in turn these do manifest themselves constantly in the human bodies. But the Baha'is believe (1st) there is the essence of God, the knowledge of which is unattainable by man. It is the Mystery of Mysteries and the Essence of essences and the Light of lights. (2d) then there is the Manifestation of God, the transparent Mirror, the Clear Channel, the Perfect Man who represents to us all the ideas of "God" that we can clearly grasp; who reveals to us faint glimpses of that far off Light, and who opens our eyes to the majestic Glory of the Eternal Kingdom. (3d) Then there are creatures who receive the teachings and who try to live the life of purity and sanctity.   ABU1392
