Beware lest ye backbite one another.   BH03270

Do not gossip about them. Do not spoil your tongue with the mention of evil people.  ABU2107

my advice to you is not to mention anyone negatively, even by allusion or suggestion   AB06702

Do not gossip about them. It must be so that your very silence should be blame itself.   ABU2182

Time passes in vain talk, and when it ends there is loss upon loss and evident deprivation.   AB05672

Beware lest ye backbite one another. This is what We have forbidden in the laws and ordinances.  BH11816

We should never speak of the faults or weaknesses of others; we are as yet imperfect. We must concentrate on the good qualities of others. Virtues are to be found in every person if sought for.  ABU0190


Defile not your tongues with cursing and reviling anyone, and guard your eyes from that which is not befitting.  ABU1754


Heedless souls are always seeking faults in others. What can the hypocrite know of others' faults when he is blind to his own?  ABU1360

Admonish the Friends so they will not backbite and criticize, voicing the mistakes and sins of others. Have a sin-covering eye.   ABU0436


One day, Jesus son of Mary - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - was walking with several of His disciples when they came upon a dead dog. They expressed disgust, saying they detected a foul odor. That Source of compassion and mercy said, "How white are its teeth!" Observe now how He concealed the fault - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loving-kindness. This was solely to teach His companions that all should fix their gaze upon the good deeds of others and conceal one another's faults. We bear witness that He is verily the All-Knowing, the Wise Teacher.  BH00418

The language of criticism and fault-finding is bad. It has become however the second nature in some people. All these evils are issued from self-adulation and personal conceit. Man must be pleased with all mankind and displeased with himself. For example: We have come often across a person who is a liar, but he censures another soul because of the same tendency; or a person is stingy and close-fisted, yet he takes his brother into account for the same unlikeable habits. Man must not see the evil qualities of the people; he must look at his own shortcomings and make an effort to remove them. ABU1094

There was a man by the name of Mahmud who used to speak ill of people. Once the Blessed Beauty advised him to refrain from gossiping.  He said, 'I am following the example of God. As God has repeatedly mentioned Adam's transgression in all the heavenly books, I am doing the same to other people.' The Blessed Beauty smiled at this response. ABU2748



Then cleanse your tongues from reviling, and backbite not those who have hastened with their feet and hearts unto the paradise of a glorious Name.   BH00782

People speak too much because they seek fame, because they wish to be thought better than their brethren. Those who do most good say the least about it.  ABU2032


How then could it be that the friends of God would plot against you? Hold fast unto the manifest certitude, turning away from idle fancies and vain imaginings.  BH01112

Ye have been forbidden to commit murder or adultery, or to engage in backbiting or calumny; shun ye, then, what hath been prohibited in the holy Books and Tablets.  BH00001

First a few people say something hateful about a person and generally there is a fragment of truth in what they say. The story grows, is spread, the circle widens   ABU3199

the servants who are focused on the Most Great Horizon must follow the Truth, let alone speaking of what they have not seen and mentioning what they have not heard.  BH04536


but if, God forbid, you lose your time in vain chattering and useless talk and running hither and thither, these things, be sure, will never lead you to the way of salvation.  ABU1108

like the peoples of old and new, they cling to their own idle fancies and suppositions, turning away from the Sovereign of certitude. Thus was it before and thus shall it ever be   BH10210

Profitless discussions fatigue and weary a person. People who call on me almost every day carry on a stream of profitless, unspiritual talk and I must listen to them with patience.  ABU1295


One must seek to discover the praises of souls, not investigate people's faults. As much as possible, one must overlook faults and discuss people's perfections, not their deficiencies.  AB01933

Why should we be tattlers and busy-bodies and gossip-mongers? Why are we not looking at our own shortcomings? Why do we not let people alone? Why do we not search after our own faults?   ABU2326

some denounce others as infidels and backbite their loved ones behind their backs, such that the fragrance of love hath been lifted from their midst and hatred hath settled in their breasts  BH02034


Furthermore, if in the inner quarters the women relate some news about someone, observe complete silence, engage in the mention of the True One, and say that the remembrance of God is best.  AB11209

Waste not your precious time in fault-finding and back-biting. If some people come to thee alone complaining against each other, don't listen to them, don't let them breathe the faults of others in thy presence.  ABU0686

Never has it been permissible for anyone to speak critically of another, even if they be among the wicked - how much less so for the righteous, even if they be strangers - how much less so for loved ones and the virtuous.  AB01326


How strange that one should be occupied with the faults of others while heedless of his own faults! This is the path of spiritual ones. Exercise the utmost care in preventing this characteristic and never allow anyone to utter anything except praise.  AB08379

Blessed art thou for having cast aside idle fancies and taken hold of that which hath been revealed from God, the Lord of the seen and unseen. By God's life! The ocean of certitude hath surged before the faces of men, yet they hasten toward idle fancies.  BH06210

Remember, above all, the teaching of Baha'u'llah concerning gossip and unseemly talk about others. Stories repeated about others are seldom good. A silent tongue is the safest. Even good may be harmful, if spoken at the wrong time, or to the wrong person.   ABU1113

If any one comes to you and endeavors to belittle the station of another in your presence or speaks in any terms against another, you must not listen; nay, rather, excuse yourself by saying that you are a Bahai and that you cannot hear anything but the praise of your brother.   ABU3227


We must not speak against each other either publicly or privately. We must not belittle the services rendered by others because they are not so fortunately situated as ourselves. We must not have the spirit of destructive criticism. We must not make the hearts of other people sad. We must not backbite.   ABU1005

Furthermore, some had secretly begun to speak ill of others without cause, and these individuals gradually increased in number and were daily multiplying. It was observed that if this situation were to continue in this manner, this condition would spread to all, and in this manifest Day such a state must not and should not exist.  AB02453

Say: O people of creation! Hearken unto the call of the Lord of invention and cast off the nature of beasts. Adorn your temples with the ornament of love and fellowship, and be not of the heedless. Beware lest ye backbite one another, and beware lest ye commit that which would grieve the hearts of the servants of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH00204


O people! Make mention of the servants with good, and speak not of them with evil, nor with that which would grieve their souls. Even the mention of evil hath been forbidden in this year, for the tongue was created to make mention of God. It would be a pity to defile it with backbiting or to utter words that cause grief and distress to the servants.   BH01592

If any soul speak ill of an absent one, the only result will clearly be this: he will dampen the zeal of the friends and tend to make them indifferent. For backbiting is divisive, it is the leading cause among the friends of a disposition to withdraw. If any individual should speak ill of one who is absent, it is incumbent on his hearers, in a spiritual and friendly manner, to stop him, and say in effect: would this detraction serve any useful purpose?  AB00073

No Baha'i should open their lips to criticize another, and should consider backbiting the gravest error in the human world, for in all the Tablets of Baha'u'llah it is explicitly stated that backbiting and evil-speaking are satanic whispers and suggestions that destroy the foundation of humanity. A believer should not criticize even strangers, let alone acquaintances, and should not backbite enemies, much less speak ill of friends. Backbiting and evil-speaking are attributes of the sick in mind, not the righteous.  AB00182

That seeker should also regard backbiting as grievous error, and keep himself aloof from its dominion, inasmuch as backbiting quencheth the light of the heart, and extinguisheth the life of the soul.  BH00002
