Baha forbids vain desire  BH11141

The world hath been laid waste by vain imaginings. The world hath but one Builder, one Destroyer. The Command is in God's hands, the Lord of lords. The people are seen to be so heedless that one is astonished. If one veil is rent asunder, they are found to be afflicted with another veil greater than the first.  BH00385

The All-Glorious forbiddeth vain desire   BH10063

Days in any case come to an end, but there is a great difference between them. One person's life passes in the defilement of lusts, while another's time passes in hardship and difficulty in the path of the Lord of Signs. How great is the difference between them! AB03772

put to flight the stubborn forces of passion and desire  AB04910

every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed  ABU2648

Enjoin ye the truth and guidance, then restrain yourselves from desire.  BH03887

We beseech God to protect His loved ones from the hosts of self and passion   BH10011

Therefore they have become immersed in passions and drowned in the sea of darkness.   AB05312

such as have been heedless of God through following the promptings of self and desire  BH07281

Human souls are absorbed in desires and passions and are captives of the world of nature.  AB05727

Their understanding should have a basis in reality and not be based upon passion and desire.  ABU2846

And woe unto him whom vain desires have kept back from God, the Lord of the first and the last.   BH11055

Likewise, it is a place for falling into carnal perils and descending into the darkness of passion.  AB06941

if a rational person casts himself into the abyss of passion it demonstrates his ignorance and madness   AB07523

man hath perversely continued to serve his lustful appetites...with the perpetrating of vile and ignoble acts  AB00162

Those who dissipate their lives by lust and passion cause their souls to drown in the whirlpools of this world.  AB09200

Any soul from whom signs of wickedness and lust become manifest, such a one is not and has never been of the Truth  BH11522

Man must not follow the dictate of his passion and lust but always be engaged in that which is honorable and enduring.  ABU1554

they who have been seized by the intoxication of their desires in such wise as to be shut out from the straight path of God.  BH05381

Our hope is that they be delivered from the clutches of their carnal desires and emancipated from the bondage of self and passion.  ABU1126

The people of this mortal world, both high and low, spend their days and nights in pursuit of carnal desires and ultimately meet with manifest loss.   AB03713

The words of many speakers are mixed with the lusts of their souls and their worldly appetites; therefore they will have neither authority nor success.  ABU2579

We have forbidden all from the promptings of self and passion, and have enjoined upon them that which shall profit them in the world to come and in this world  BH08413

But if he indulgeth in his passions and desires, he will be hopeless, fall into deep despair, experience profound regret, and become afflicted with the torment of hell.  AB02423

thou findest them subject to the rage of lusts and under the influence of egotistic and selfish desires, sinking into intemperance and engaged in drinking the cup of lust  AB03879

I testify, O my God, that I have put away Thy commandments, and clung to the dictates of my passions, and have cast away the statutes of Thy Book, and seized the book of mine own desire.  BH00005

Man is constantly under the dominion of the self that commands to evil. It gives not a moment's opportunity nor grants any respite before the hosts of passion and desire launch their assault. What can poor man do alone and solitary against this endless army, unless the protection and shelter of the Divine Unity provides a solution and guards against the evil of this cruel oppressor? "Verily the self commands to evil except such as my Lord shows mercy to" is sufficient and complete testimony. This accursed infidel, like the disease of night terrors, overtakes man to the point where it cuts off his breath. May God protect us and you from its evil, its deception and its dominion. AB06080

When passion comes, man's work is rendered vain. How regrettable it would be for one who dwells beneath the shade of the Blessed Beauty to sully himself with dust and besmear himself with clay.   ABU1667

They that follow their passions have no way to reach unto God. Leave those who have denied their Lord to their vain imaginings, and commune with them whom the breathings of thy Lord's mercy have stirred.  BH11834

In the world of humanity, every person is stimulated by a certain objective point.... The objective point of a forth soul is to satisfy his selfish appetites and lust. He thinks of no other things save those elements which might contribute to the gratification of his animal propensities. ABU1102

O people of the Bayan! Strive within yourselves lest the clay of desires become mixed with the water of your being. Fear God and be of the God-fearing. Sanctify yourselves from the clay of self and passion  BH02418

Nevertheless, they cling to the cords of idle fancies and hold fast to the frailest of dwellings. They have turned away from the lights of the Sun of certitude and have set their faces toward the darkness of idle fancies.  BH11023

My sorrows are for those who have involved themselves in their corrupt passions, and claim to be associated with the Faith of God, the Gracious, the All-Praised. They that have tarnished the fair name of the Cause of God, by following the things of the flesh - these are in palpable error!   BH03249

"Deprive not thyself of that which is imperishable through a momentary indulgence" - that is, deprive not thyself of divine gifts, merciful bestowals, abundant bounties and praiseworthy rewards by following carnal desires, physical pleasures and satanic fantasies. The "indulgence" is a metaphor for following lusts and committing sins of whatever kind.  AB00058

Among the people are those who have turned away from the truth by following the creation, and among them are those who have gone astray in the valley of passions after We showed them this exalted path, and among them are those who are occupied with wealth, heedless of their final end, and among them are those who gather but know not for whom they gather - verily they understand not.   BH03699

I see the people like bees or ants, coming and going by troops, surging past like waves, continually engrossed in their business. But if you should ask them, 'What are you doing? Why all this commotion?' you would find that they know nothing at all of their origin or their end, and that they look for no other good except eating and sleeping and assiduously pandering to their sensual desires.   ABU3069

Consider the condition of a King who has overcome and conquered the East and the West, whose fame has encircled the globe, whose very name strikes terror at the hearts of other rulers but his reason ruled by passion and his heart defeated by greed and list, He is like unto a horse on whose back these malevolent qualities are riding, causing him to gallop through marshy fields of heedlessness and craggy heights of egotism.   ABU0324
