Shatter the idols of vain imaginings in the name of the Lord of all men.   BH08088

Break ye the idols of idle fancies by the arm of certitude, then make mention of your Lord with joy and fragrance.  BH11667

Break the idols by My sovereignty and turn to the Dawning-Place of My signs  BH02391

Do ye worship the calf and forsake God, your Lord, and imagine that ye are numbered among the dwellers of the Paradise of refuge?   BH07223

When either one of the two adores the other instead of God, then each will prevent the other from entering into the Kingdom of God.  AB10793

Fear ye nothing - open your eyes and follow not those who have taken their vain imaginings for their god and who cleave fast unto them.   BH05177

And he who calleth the people unto the idol verily is to be numbered among the denizens of the coffin, and is thus recorded before the Throne.  BH11798

Shatter the idols of vain imaginings by the command of your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing. Then cut yourself off from every sinful polytheist   BH02047

And among the people are those who follow their idle fancies and turn away from God, and are like unto them who worship idols and are devoted to them.  BH11755

Do ye worship the calf and forsake Him Who created you by His command, by Whose light all who are in the heavens and earth are illumined, if ye be possessed of insight?  BH02388

Break the idols of vain imitation by the power of your Lord, and should ye find in yourselves any weakness, seek ye strength through My sovereignty which encompasseth all the worlds.   BH00803


It is as though they worship names for which God hath given no authority, and thus do they cleave to idols within themselves while perceiving not. They mention God without His authority being manifest to them, yet when it is manifested they turn back on their heels.   BH01915

Some worship the product of their own imagination: they make for themselves an imaginary God and adore this, when the creation of their finite minds cannot be the Infinite Mighty Maker of all things visible and invisible! Others worship the sun or trees, also stones!   ABU0493

They regard the sound of copper and brass as the divine call, though it be but inanimate matter, and they hold it sacred and answer its summons, rushing forthwith to church. But they deprive their ears of the divine call and show the utmost aversion to hearing the Word of Truth.  ABU2067

We shall now recount unto thee tales of those who worshipped idols... Know thou that those who have taken idols as their guardians instead of God adduce as proof that these are the manifestations of the Cause among us... On that Day thou shalt find most of those on earth worshipping idols and rejoicing therein.  BH01725

Say: Today, whatsoever preventeth you from God is an idol, even were it to be of the highest existence. For the excellence of every possessor of excellence lieth in his acknowledgment of God, his recognition of His Self, his entry beneath His shadow, and his prostration before His exalted and mighty Countenance.  BH00343

They are as nothing, heedless ones, asses, fools. Were they to know, they would surely cut themselves to pieces and sacrifice themselves, their souls, their spirits, but they perceive not and worship what they know not, and they have taken for themselves a partner with God, the One, the Single, the Alone, the Mighty, the Beloved.  BH11678

Say to the idolaters: If you worship not God, your Creator, besides Whom there is no other God, then by the Lord of the House, He is the Truth, and I have not worshipped and will never worship any but God, our True Master. To you be your religion, and for us the pure religion around the water, through truth upon truth, ordained.  BB00002

took idols for themselves as protectors besides God  BH10259

They have taken their idols and cast aside the Truth.   BH09554

Shatter the idols of vain imaginings through the name of thy Lord   BH07417

Break the idols by the power of your Lord, the Master of all necks   BH04043

They worship idols, supposing themselves to be worshipping the Truth   BH04442

On the other hand the guest uttered the name of an Idol and began to eat.   ABU2308

Say: Shatter the idols by the name of your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH06171

The bounty is to those who have shattered the idols by the power of their Lord  BH02861

They worship the calf while deluding themselves that it is the Lord of creation.   BH06208

We see most people as idol worshippers though they imagine themselves to be guided   BH04426

They have clung to the idols of their own selves and are not among those who perceive.   BH05874

They make mention of God with their tongues while their hearts tell of images and idols.   BH08981

Among the people are those who turned away from it and took idols as their objects of worship  BH07756

who have shattered the idols of desire in the name of their Lord, the Almighty, the Powerful   BH03195

unlike the former people who each day took a different god, carved an idol, and worshipped it   BH04946

They are, verily, worshippers of idols in the sight of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH07616

How many a servant hath worshipped idols while imagining he believed in God, Lord of all mankind.   BH06703

lest they become like the people of the Furqan who each day set up a new god and took hold of an idol  BH02220

Shatter the idols of fancy and vain imaginings in the name of your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH04080

Follow not those who worship the calf instead of God - these are indeed far removed from the Tree of Nearness.   BH09322

One retrogrades to such a low level as to worship statues and stony forms which are devoid of spirit and reason  ABU2576

How long will ye worship idols while ye perceive not? Say: The idols are but your vain desires, did ye but know.   BH06543

How long will ye sport with your idle fancies? How long will ye cleave to your idols? Cast away vain imaginings.   BH05832

Every soul hath taken unto himself an idol besides God. Thus have vain imaginings and idle fancies seduced them.   BH05759

The glory be upon you, O My handmaidens, and upon every handmaiden who hath broken the idols in the name of her Lord   BH06959

Say: Fear God, O peoples of the earth, and follow not those who have clung to the idols of fancy and vain imaginings.   BH07187

If we keep a photograph just for memory's sake no harm is done but if we offer to it extraordinary homage it is pure idolatry.  ABU1784

Blessed is he who hath shattered the idols of vain imaginings and delivered the Abraham of faith from the hosts of wicked unbelief.   BH03646

"They have cast God behind their backs, clinging to idols. They are indeed among the most lost in God's Book, the Lord of all worlds."  BH05206

Say: Where is your goal, O company of vain imaginings? By God! If ye seek other than Me, it is but an idol unto you, did ye but know.   BH04519

mayest thou shatter the idols of vain imaginings that have caused men to be veiled from the Dawning-Place of the Light of Divine Unity   BH08706

Say: Do ye worship the idol instead of God? Woe unto you for what your passions bid you do. Fear God and take not the idol as your helper   BH02955

All nations worship their images of a god and these imaginary gods are superstitious phantoms. Hence they are worshipers of superstitions.  ABU1052

By God! They worship names and perceive it not. Nay, were ye to ponder upon them, ye would find them to be worshippers of their own names.   BH03186

The seas have been set ablaze by the fire of the word of the Chosen One, yet the people, having followed every ignorant idol, remain heedless thereof.   BH04162

turn not unto those who worship idols and imagine themselves to be among the monotheists. Break ye the idols of vain imaginings through My name and My sovereignty  BH07648

They who were held back by vain imaginings are truly the worshippers of idols, though they perceive it not. Break the idols by the command of your Lord, the Lord of all mankind.  BH08476

just as most people on earth today are idol-worshippers, as is recorded in certain books that half the people of earth worship idols while the other half comprise different religions   BH06983

Though thou art a woman, arise like unto a man and break the deity of idle imagination with the might of Abraham; render asunder the intervening veils with the power of the All-Glorious One   BH08738

Most are observed to be worshippers of names, cleaving to them while remaining bereft of God, glorified be His majesty. The former people for years were worshippers of names and idols, unknowingly.   BH02425

Break the idols by My power and sovereignty - thus have ye been commanded by One Mighty, All-Wise. Say: The idols are your vain desires, did ye but know, and then your idle fancies, did ye but perceive.  BH03887

The attributes of Divinity are assigned to the idols of India and today the likeness of Buddha is worshipped by several hundred millions of human souls. What benefit does he draw from this adoration? Nothing.   ABU1823

The people have become familiar with vain imaginings and idols. Consider the people of Persia: for one thousand two hundred years they spoke of vain imaginings, clung to vain imaginings, and held fast to their hem.  BH00592

Again, if we look at the Hindus we see that they have made images and worship them as deities, and they have eight million such deities in their temples. It is evident that these are superstitions and imaginations.  ABU0089

'For example, the adornment of churches with images, self-mortification, abstinence, monks' habits, the lighting of candles in church, the ringing of the bell in the steeple and others. These are all from idolaters.'  ABU2215

Leave the idolaters and what they possess. Verily, We have found some of them upon the hill of turning away, and some upon the hill of questioning, and some upon the hill of hatred, and some upon the hill of ignorance.   BH01520

They who have taken as friends others besides God - these have been prevented by following vain imaginings. They worship idols while supposing themselves to be among the choicest of creation in the sight of the sublime Truth.   BH04079

Behold and call to mind when the Friend, through the power of the Glorious One, turned toward the abode of the idols in the name of His Lord, the Lord of all mankind. Blessed is the hand that shattered the idols of fancy and vain imaginings   BH09603

Say: Have ye turned to temples made by the hands of Our servants while setting aside the Temple of God? This is naught but manifest wrong. Do ye imagine ye worship God your Lord? Nay, rather your vain imaginings, were ye of the perceiving ones.   BH01508

One worships illusion, another imagines a god in his limited mind and worships that, when whatever fits in the mind is merely imagined. One worships the sun, another worships trees and stones. In ancient times many worshipped wind, worshipped the sea, worshipped plants.  ABU0532

Lack of knowledge in the past led people to the worship of the sun for to them the sun was of great importance and significance, they imagined that the visible light was one of the Divine Bounties and heavenly manifestations. As they observed that its center was the sun, they worshipped it.  ABU0637

The founder of the idol worship was Jeroboam. The rebellion grew, until war broke out between Jeroboam and Rehaboam, in which many people were killed. All their wise men failed to cure the evil; darkness upon darkness overtook them. The Israelites became degenerate; corruption reached such a point that they became worshippers of Baal.   ABU0408

Be not of those who fashion idols with their own hands and then fall prostrate before their own creation in worship. What difference is there between such people and those who utter fabricated words in praise of one in whom naught but vain desire is evident, that they might establish their words among men, and then bow down in worship?   BH00857

They who worship names instead of Me, these are indeed idolaters in the sight of thy Lord, the Almighty, the Powerful. Say: Do ye take names as lords for yourselves besides God and forsake the Most Excellent of Creators? Fear ye God, then sanctify yourselves from the veils of fancy and be ye of them who take none besides God as their helper or protector.   BH01326

This servant is astonished by those who, through heeding the foolish utterances of imaginary beings, remain deprived of the path of Divine unity. As to the baseness, degradation and paucity of understanding of mankind, this suffices - that for years they were worshippers of idols and even now exist upon the earth yet remain unaware; they worship the calf and perceive not; they follow Baal and know not; they bow before Al-Lat and comprehend not; they cleave to false gods and remember not.   BH00435
