
"The righteous shall drink of a cup tempered with camphor"   AB07525

through the fragrance of Whose raiment Yathrib and Batha were perfumed   BH09371

I bear witness that thou hast witnessed the dawn of Kufih and the evening of Karbila.  BH11813

the love of Muhammad, the beauty of Joseph, the longing of Jacob, and the patience of Job   AB06120

thy Most Glorious Lord has come in the shadows of clouds with hosts that the heedless have not yet seen   AB02470

In the Garden of Paradise, in the Furthest Mosque, in Yathrib and Batha - how we miss you, how we miss you!   AB01582

The Hour hath drawn nigh and the moon is cleft asunder...They lay prostrate upon the earth as if they were hollow palm-trunks.   BB00535

Be a lamp of illumination in God's path and in the meadow of the righteous be a swaying cypress and ornament of the flower garden.  AB02520

entered the temple of the Lord in the Furthest Mosque, and in the Holy of Holies became occupied with chanting the verses of unity   AB07443

Thou hast praised Thyself in the clear verses of the Qur'an as "Accepter of repentance, Forgiver of sins," and "Verily God forgives all sins."   AB07099

And the River of Glory (Sana) is a river which God hath made the mother of all seas, and from it appeared the four rivers mentioned in the Book.   BH05189

Hearken unto that which the All-Merciful hath sent down in the Qur'an: "On the day when thy Lord shall come, or some of the signs of thy Lord shall come."   BH07313

Through the word of acceptance, an earthen House became the Point of Adoration for the world and a black stone became the object of devotion for all peoples.   BH09138

The Cry hath been raised, and the She-Camel hath been hamstrung through that which the hands of them that disbelieved in God, the Lord of Lords, have wrought.   BH07519

"Dost thou not believe?" He said: "Yes, but that my heart may be at rest." Thus didst Thou confirm his certain knowledge with the vision of certainty and the truth of certainty."  AB05995

Say: O people! This is the She-Camel of God, grazing upon what God hath caused to grow for her in the land of Paradise, giving you to drink of the milk whereby souls and bodies are quickened.  BH00783

By My life, O thou who hast fixed thy gaze upon My Countenance! The Ark hath been shattered, and the She-Camel hath been hamstrung by reason of that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought.   BH02301

And they brought his shirt with false blood upon it. He said: Nay, but your souls have made a matter light for you, so comely patience! And Allah is He Whose help is sought against what you describe.  BB00002

From a mere drop, return unto the sea; from a mote, return unto the sun; from a brackish well, hasten to the sweet Euphrates; from this gloomy patch of earth, turn unto the dawning-place of the sun.   AB05531

At that time will be unveiled the blessed verse: "And thou seest the earth barren and lifeless, but when We send down rain upon it, it stirs and swells and puts forth plants of every beauteous kind."  AB05275

O servants of the All-Merciful! God hath prescribed for you, at the mention of Husayn, weeping like unto the weeping of the bereaved, and verily God's judgment concerning vengeance for him hath been decreed in truth.  BB00002

Thus have We established for thee, through the waters of Our wisdom and utterance, the foundations of thy belief. This, verily, is the water whereon the Throne of thy Lord hath been raised. "His Throne had stood upon the waters."   BH01880

Say: I seek refuge with the Lord of the Dawn, from the evil of what He has created, and from the evil of darkness when it overspreads, and from the evil of those who blow on knots, and from the evil of the envious one when he envieth.   BB00441

Strive in this mortal dust-heap that thou mayest become a manifestation of the favors of the All-Merciful Lord, and endeavor in this darksome cage that thou mayest acquire spiritual wings and feathers, enabling thee to soar to the divine heights.  AB06305

The Baha'i Cause is like unto the Great Ocean or rather the Great Ocean is a sign of the Cause of God. Its mountainous waves are in itself and by itself. While it is in the utmost of calmness, the Northern and Southern winds lash it into furious tempest.   ABU1465

"What is that in thy right hand, O Moses?" The right signifies goodness, blessing, power and strength... "This is my staff, I lean upon it" - meaning this is the power Thou hast given me through Thy bounty and favor... "and I beat down leaves therewith for my sheep"   AB02161

The four rivers spoken of refer to the four great powers which are manifested only in the Manifestations of God, as follows: River of Communes or Prayers, River of Interpretations, River of Doctrines and Precepts, River of answering difficult and scientific questions.  ABU0217

This is why God in the Qur'an has likened the strivings, gains and deeds of the heedless to a mirage, saying: "But the deeds of those who disbelieve are like a mirage in a desert. The thirsty one thinks it to be water; until when he comes to it, he finds it to be nothing."   AB01243

In the mighty Qur'an, this world has been likened to a desert mirage, and human souls to one who thirsts for water. The parched person imagines the mirage to be water and races with utmost speed across the desert, only to end up disappointed and at a loss, perishing from thirst.   AB00912

Thus in the Qur'an verses were explicitly revealed that contradicted the philosophical views, technical matters and mathematical principles of the learned of that age. Therefore it was thought that these divine texts were contrary to reality since they opposed the established mathematical technical principles of the horizons.   AB00076

Reflect now upon that which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an, where He clearly saith: "And there shall be a blast on the trumpet, and all who are in the heavens and all who are in the earth shall swoon away, save those whom God shall please to exempt. Then shall there be another blast on it, and lo! they shall rise and gaze around them."   BH00820

This is that day of which He saith: "And thou shalt see mankind as drunken, yet they are not drunken: but severe is the chastisement of God." And this is that Day of which He saith: "The trumpet shall be blown, and all who are in the heavens and on earth shall swoon away, save him whom God pleaseth." And likewise He saith: "All things shall perish save His face."  BH07694

And she in whose house he was sought to seduce him, and she closed the doors and said: Come hither! He said: God forbid! Truly my Lord has made good my dwelling place. Verily the wrongdoers shall never prosper. The Fig and the Olive have been joined on that firm Mount, and this indeed is the frequented City of Truth, even as it has been written in the Mother Book.  BB00002

in all Qur'anic commentaries regarding the blessed verse "God will bring forth a people whom He loves and who love Him," it is recorded that when this blessed verse was revealed, the Prophet (may my spirit be sacrificed for him) placed his hand on Salman's shoulder and said "This one and his people - even if knowledge were in the Pleiades, men from among the Persians would attain it."  AB02005

As for the she-camel of God mentioned in the Surah of Counsel, it is a reference to His sacred being which fell into the hands of enemies who then slaughtered it, that is, tormented it and flayed it with sharp tongues, punished it and took vengeance upon it until hearts were consumed by their oppression. Then their Lord destroyed them for their sin - that is, denied them divine bounties, seized them and left them in their heedlessness, wretchedness, deprivation and ignorance forever.   AB00216
