
They rejoice in what they have wrought, even as those who slew Husayn rejoiced.  BH07204

His Holiness the Prince of Martyrs would assuredly have sought and yearned after them  AB07654

And where is my Husayn who accepted no ransom in the path of God, the Lord of all beings?  BH02352

what is meant by the Prince of Martyrs is the martyr of Karbala, the son of Fatimih-Zahra   AB02988

but the signs of the Master of the Martyrs, Imam Hossein are clear and manifest, even in this mortal world.   ABU0911

Blessed is he who visits My Name Husayn...and what befell you from the enemies of the Self of God, your Lord.  BH03672

They slay Husayn and then weep for him...Muhammad, the Apostle of God, bewails their deeds in the highest paradise  BH08935

The text specifically mentions prostration on "the soil of Husayn - upon him be thousands of praises and greetings"  BB00562

During the days of Ashura, this Wronged One was occupied with commemorating the tribulation of the Prince of Martyrs   BH02810

Consider how the abasement of His Holiness the unique martyr, Ali ibn al-Husayn (peace be upon him) was what eternal glory  AB03772

Yazid too departed this world, and the Lord of the Martyrs likewise departed this world - what a difference between them!   ABU1541

Be of Husayn's temperament, pass beyond fear and hope for the sake of one life, Enter the Karbila of love manfully, manfully  AB03872

O people of the earth! Deal not with the Most Great Remembrance as the community dealt with Husayn unjustly in the Holy Land.  BB00002

His holiness, the Prince of Martyrs (Imam Husayn)- blessing and peace rest upon him- became a martyr in the desert of Karbala.  AB04637

His Holiness the Prince of Martyrs (may the spirit of all martyrs be sacrificed for him) was surrounded by enemies on the plain of Karbila.   AB05677

and if they reproach with moderation or relate tales, say that this is a recognition of the plain of Karbila and commemoration of the Prince of Martyrs  AB03127

This is the year wherein Hasan sacrificed himself in the path of God, the Lord of the worlds, and after him Husayn, who attained the most great martyrdom.   BH08470

By God! The tradition of God concerning the soul of Husayn hath returned, nay the traditions of the Messengers, until I arrived in this most remote Prison.   BH01365

His Holiness the Prince of Martyrs (may the spirit of all existence be sacrificed for Him) offered up His life in the field of sacrifice on the plain of Karbila  AB10614

Glorified is He Who hath left Husayn to make His dwelling amidst the hosts of His enemies, and exposed His body with every breath to the spears of hatred and anger  BH00007

In My vision I saw the head of the Imam Husayn, the Siyyidu'sh-Shuhada', which was hanging upon a tree. Drops of blood dripped profusely from His lacerated throat.  BB00605

On the day of His martyrdom on the field of Karbala, Husayn ibn `Ali spoke these words: Is there anyone truly capable of dispensing victory who will come to aid me?  BHU0070

The abasement and lowliness of the Prince of Martyrs (may my spirit be sacrificed for him) in the desert of Karbila was the glory of both worlds and sovereignty of both realms  AB05833

The trials of the desert of Karbila were unbearable, but in the palate of the Prince of Martyrs (may my spirit and the spirit of all be sacrificed for him) they were most sweet.  AB03439

we would sacrifice our lives in their path and recite in detail the Visitation Tablet for the Prince of Martyrs, our eyes becoming like spring clouds with tears upon hearing it.   AB01059

Then remember those days when the heedless made captives of the family of the Apostle - those by whose faces Yathrib and Ba??a were illumined - until they entered spacious Damascus.   BH02808

This is Husayn Who hath appeared among you in truth with a holy and wondrous beauty, with mighty signs of attraction, with delicate melodies of the spirit, and with sweet strains of love   BH03967

I beseech Thee, O my God...by Thy Name through which Thou didst create Husayn - Thy blessings be upon them all, now and before and after - and made him a proof from Thee unto Thy creation  BB00395

For one thousand three hundred years the Prince of Martyrs was killed, and still lamentations and cries are raised for him. The Prince of Martyrs uttered one "I thirst" and how many thirsty ones were satisfied.   ABU2248

Consider that they did not bury His Holiness the Prince of Martyrs (may my spirit be sacrificed for him) and all his companions in Muslim cemeteries, but left them covered in blood and mixed with dust in the land of Taff.   AB01233

In truth thou art a manifestation of the return of the wife of the Prince of Martyrs Imam Husayn [Shahr-Banu]. Like thee that wronged one of the world was afflicted with mighty calamities; like thee she suffered grievous wrongs.   AB03476

I observed a group of people, grief-stricken and heartbroken, weeping and lamenting, engaged in reciting elegies for the Prince of Martyrs (peace be upon him), crying out: O Husayn, what did they do when they made thee a sacrifice!  AB04864

In the days of the Prince of Martyrs, may my spirit be sacrificed for him, that wellspring of divine knowledge and source of heavenly bounty - the water of life was flowing and coursing, but there was not a thirsty soul to be found.  AB04297

This Wronged One, for successive years in Zawra, during Muharram, did Himself make mention of the tribulations of the Prince of Martyrs, may the souls of all else be a sacrifice unto Him, while the Persians were engaged in lamentation.   BH02713

They counted the martyrdom of Husayn ibn 'Ali as a mighty proof of the manifestation of the Seal of the Prophets, yet they remain heedless and veiled from that which has come to pass in these days. Say: This is Husayn Who hath appeared after the Qa'im.  BH11616

Did my Hasan deal faithlessly amongst you, unlawfully devour your wealth, or shed your blood? Judge ye fairly, O people, and be not of them that speak falsely! Explain ye, O people of the Furqan! For what crime did ye slay my Husayn in the Land of Sad?"   BH02301

One of the ulama of Simnan during his governorship, whenever there was a gathering commemorating the martyrdom and suffering of the Lord of Martyrs, would repeatedly say with great anguish "Would that I had been with thee and attained a mighty triumph!"   ABU1307

Among them is the true account of Husayn, when he departed from his home with his family and companions, as ye hear tell each day and hour. The hosts of unbelief surrounded them from every side and prevented them from returning to God's sacred sanctuary.   BH01264

The polytheists of the Plain of Taff were asked: "For what crime did you martyr the son of the Messenger of God?" They replied saying that he had risen against the Imam of the Age. Now they say that Hasan and Husayn had risen against the Friday prayer leader.   BH00641

The All-Merciful intended by the mention of Joseph the very soul of the Prophet and fruit of the Virgin, Husayn son of Ali son of Abu Talib, as witnessed. And verily God ordained his martyrdom through the testimony of Unity by Himself from Himself in truth, accepted.  BB00002

Follow thou the decree of thy Lord, then go forth unto the Covenant of the Remnant of God, the manifest Imam of Justice. He it is in Whose hand lies the dominion of all things, and naught escapeth His knowledge, and verily He is the servant of God in a preserved Book.   BB00356

God chose Husayn from among His servants and made him in truth, by the truth, an Imam and martyr. He surpassed his brethren in the knowledge of the All-Merciful by a convincing letter concerning the mystery of what was hidden in the concealed line of the hidden secret.  BB00002

Multiple references throughout describing Husayn's martyrdom at Karbala, his seeking water, and God's witnessing of his sacrifice: The people disbelieved in God after Husayn arose in the land of Taff, proclaiming from the station of love, detached from all save God, the Ancient One.  BB00002

That decree was a truth from God our Lord, as God had ordained the prostration of the stars to Husayn above the dust according to the decree of the Gate around the Fire, as a matter decreed. We were indeed truthful in our witness to the mystery of Divine Unity from Husayn in truth by the truth  BB00002

Follow the example of Ali ibn Husayn, peace be upon him. Hassan of Basra relates that one day in the desert of Hijaz, I observed from the direction of the wilderness that a radiant youth of perfect beauty and grace was coming, wandering and searching, but with bare head, bare feet and naked body.   AB01828

What advantage did the wicked Yazid derive from his vast empire and limitless pomp and yet what loss and disadvantages befell the Prince of martyrs, Imam Husayn, the Master of the wronged ones of the world, in his homelessness, his suffering, his imprisonment, his captivity and finally with his martyrdom.   AB00843

Verily God hath cut off His mercy from the slayer of our ancestor Husayn upon the plain of Taff, alone and forsaken. Indeed, Yazid son of Mu'awiyah did purchase falsely the head of Joseph, the Truth, for a paltry price from himself and for counted pieces of silver from his dominion, through the party of Satan.  BB00002

Know that Hussein has a station where no one can wrong him or usurp his right, as the Imam said in the hadith. How could it not be so when God's side cannot be wronged and God's sovereignty cannot be overcome? He is God's manifestation in creation and the face of the Worshipped One in the beginning and the end.  BB00321

They used to say that if in the time of the Prophet there had been no proof, no Quran, the martyrdom of the Prince of Martyrs and his sacrifice alone would have been conclusive proof, and indeed the sacrifice of the Prince of Martyrs is a complete proof, yet they do not consider the sacrifice of all these souls as proof.   ABU0643

O my Lord, O Abu 'Abdu'llah! I testify that Thou wert the Illuminator of lights in the worlds of holiness and mysteries, and that when the light of Thy body shone forth upon the land of the Euphrates in this world, the essences in the worlds of realities were kindled, and the verities in the material worlds were established   BB00104

Although that wronged one of the field of calamity, the martyr of Karbila (may the spirit of those nigh unto God be his ransom), in the beginning took the poisoned arrow, in the end, it was his everlasting glory that became well-known and established, and he was destined to attain eternal life in the world that abideth forever.  AB02043

Observe those who every year lament and wail over the oppression of the Prince of Martyrs - may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake - and His companions, and who curse the oppressors, while they themselves have manifested such tyranny that the oppression of former tyrants is as pure nothingness in comparison.   BH01998

They have falsely attributed to you certain incidental matters. Therefore destroy their edifice with a clear and lofty explanation: that Husayn, peace be upon him, was indeed martyred, and whoever claims he was not killed has forgotten God's decree and what minds have witnessed, and is not more rightly guided than what was believed and said.   BB00412

Consider how the Prince of Martyrs lived in the world for many tranquil years but it is the significance of his calamities borne from dawn until dusk, which are of such consequence. Hast thou ever heard mention of his other days? Nay, rather all remembrance of that luminous being is restricted to his days of suffering and adversity in the land of Karbila.  AB03768

What aileth you, O hosts of Satan? Did not the Truth come to you upon his steed on the Day of Ashura, after he had proclaimed unto you, in truth and by the truth, God's most great Cause from his own self, with utmost intensity? Did he not humbly seek water for himself and for his infant child, prostrate upon the earth in sublime truth, weak in that mighty Cause?  BB00002

When the vile Yazid, the obstinate Walid, the base Khawli, the despicable Sinan, and the ill-favored Shimr found themselves powerless and incapable before the proofs and evidences of the Prince of Martyrs (may my soul be sacrificed for him), they resorted to assault and stoning, issued the death warrant for the King of Martyrs, and stained their hands with his blessed blood.   AB00222

And God hath made the pilgrims to Husayn a caravan unto the Sacred Precinct, save by leave of God, the Most High (and He is God, the Mighty, the Wise). They who journey from the Gate unto God in the depths of Oneness, upon the truth with the truth, in the precincts of the Gate, alone - these have found Husayn upon the edge of the hidden mystery, with truth, in the depths of the well, witnessed.  BB00002

God's conclusive proof has made the excellence of visiting your praised shrine equal to visiting Husayn, peace be upon him, even though no excellence in the heavens or earth equals his? For he said - may my spirit and all in the kingdom of creation and command be sacrificed for him - "Whoever visits Husayn, peace be upon him, knowing his true station, is like one who has visited God above His throne."  BB00332

Outwardly they appeared as afflictions, severe and momentous, yet through them the ocean of mercy surged, the light of recognition shone forth, and the sun of grace dawned. His martyrdom became a support and champion to the resplendent Law of the Messenger of God. His deeds were, in their essence, as the sun in the heaven of the Qur'an, and he was the tender and waterer of the garden of inner meanings.  BH01286

I have turned toward Thee, O Mystery of the Torah and the Gospel, and Dawning-Place of the verses of God, the Mighty, the Beautiful! Through Thee was built the city of detachment and was raised the banner of righteousness upon the highest peaks. Were it not for Thee, the fragrance of divine knowledge would have been cut off from the realm of possibility and the breeze of the All-Merciful from all lands.   BH00537

God chose Husayn from among His servants and made him in truth, by the truth, an Imam and martyr. He surpassed his brethren in the knowledge of the All-Merciful by a convincing letter concerning the mystery of what was hidden in the concealed line of the hidden secret. God perfected His favor upon Husayn and his successors by making their excellence like unto His own excellence, in truth over all the worlds together.  BB00002

For they are ignorant and know not that the Dawning-Place of verses and the Manifestation of clear proofs hath appeared and speaketh. Moreover, they are heedless of the traditions that they themselves consider authentic, such as the saying of the Prince of Martyrs - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for his sake - that after the Qa'im, One bearing the name Qayyum shall appear and all the Prophets and chosen ones shall gather beneath His shadow.   BH02148

Most resplendent of all was the table of the Prince of Martyrs. In truth, it was a feast wherein every bounty was present - exile on one hand, plunder and pillage on another, the captivity of family and kindred on yet another, and after martyrdom the imprisonment of all and the martyrdom of many. It was a feast wherein every kind of food was present. Then the sacred household was taken captive and the holy heads were carried from city to city atop spears.  ABU0347

His liver - may my spirit be his sacrifice - had become from thirst like a piece of iron in fire. If they deny, then witness with thine own eyes how he bore the holy struggle with such tremendous thirst. He mounted his steed for the sake of God and donned his father's cloak to manifest the grandeur of God's friend. Then he stood firm in God's majesty before the army of polytheism, bearing witness to God's unity and to Muhammad's - peace be upon him and his family - prophethood.  BB00122

And they said the letters of There is no God but God belonged to Ali in the land of the cloud, and thou wilt not believe us in prostration even though we bore witness in truth by the truth in praiseworthy wise. That decree was a truth from God our Lord, as God had ordained the prostration of the stars to Husayn above the dust according to the decree of the Gate around the Fire, as a matter decreed. We were indeed truthful in our witness to the mystery of Divine Unity from Husayn in truth by the truth.  BB00002

Therefore, O my God, this is Husayn who hath come with his own self and his kindred before the city of Thy decree, desiring what Thou hast willed by Thy fulfillment, and ever thankful for what came upon him in the path of Thy good-pleasure from time immemorial. Once, O my God, Thou didst entrust him to the hands of his brother who was named Cain, and he slew him with the sword of hatred between earth and heaven, whereupon tears flowed upon the cheeks of those near unto Thee and, beyond them, all things. Yet under the sword he gave thanks to Thee and called upon Thee with the tongue of those who remember.   BH00652

For example, how did it come to pass that souls who were among the companions, the emigrants, and the descendants of the helpers arose with such intensity and force to slay the Prince of Martyrs, may my soul be a sacrifice for him? It was all due to prejudiced tales and stories, for they spread among the people that this person has made lawful what God has forbidden and forbidden what God has made lawful, has abandoned fasting and prayer and holy war, and has turned away from the religion of his grandfather. This is why in the pilgrim's prayer to that holy one it is stated: I bear witness that you established prayer and gave the alms.  ABU1132



If someone face to face reproaches or taunts you, say with perfect reasonableness: "The honored martyrs followed the example of the martyrs of the plain of Karbila. Would that I had been with them to achieve a great achievement!" It has always been thus - there is nothing new. "This is not the first flask that has been broken in Islam." AB01052

They razed to dust the site of martyrdom in Karbila and Najaf, then plowed it under. For nearly eighty years they plowed and planted crops so that no trace would remain. After eighty years, people came and said: "Yes, it was here." They built up that site of martyrdom. This was in the time of the Umayyads. Then when the Abbasids came, they built it up. In the time of Mutawakkil they destroyed it again and cultivated crops for nearly two hundred years. The traces of truth cannot be eliminated. Even if all who dwell on earth were to unite and wish to obliterate the divine traces, they would be powerless to do so. ABU2587

The Prince of Martyrs in Karbala had his body torn to pieces, yet was still victorious.   ABU2444

Oppression hath reached such a pitch that the pen and the tongue alike are powerless and inadequate to recount or express it. Souls who at no time harmed another soul; who comported themselves with perfect love and kindliness; and who lived on terms of friendliness with all the peoples and kindreds of the earth - behold what was inflicted upon them! Were it to be inquired of those two embodiments of ignorance who regard themselves as learned, "Wherefore slew ye these wronged ones, notwithstanding that no crime or sin had been committed on their part?," they would, in reply, undoubtedly repeat the same words uttered by the mouths of the infidels in respect of the Prince of Martyrs - may all else but him be His sacrifice. After the business of the Land of Kaf, the company of the oppressors were wont to repeat this utterance:  "Husayn beyond his limit stray'd,  so slain was, by his grandsire's blade." BH02301

How great is thy station, how sublime thy rank, how momentous thy tragedy, how grievous thy affliction! By what measure shall I weep for thee, and for which of thy calamities shall I lament? Were I to weep with the waters of all the seas of creation and lament with all that is possible in invention, it would not equal an atom of what God decreed for thee of tribulation. Indeed, all others perceive the magnitude of thy tragedy according to the limitations of their own existence, yet they cannot truly know its reality as thou hast experienced it in the path of thy Lord.  BB00202

The people disbelieved in God after Husayn arose in the land of Taff, proclaiming from the station of love, detached from all save God, the Ancient One.  BB00002

His holiness, the Prince of Martyrs (Imam Husayn)- blessing and peace rest upon him- became a martyr in the desert of Karbala.  AB04637

His Holiness the Prince of Martyrs (may the spirit of all martyrs be sacrificed for him) was surrounded by enemies on the plain of Karbila.   AB05677

In the plains of Karbila seventy-two were martyred, while here thousands stepped into the field of martyrdom with utmost joy and contentment.   ABU0643

The abasement and lowliness of the Prince of Martyrs (may my spirit be sacrificed for him) in the desert of Karbila was the glory of both worlds  AB05833

Consider that in former centuries, certain souls in the desert of Karbila experienced injury and trials and pillage and affliction and supreme martyrdom  AB02109

There hath befallen you in the path of God that which befell the sons of the Apostle, their daughters and their womenfolk, in the Land of Taff (Karbila) and other lands.  BH10052

The people disbelieved in God after Husayn arose in the land of Taff, proclaiming from the station of love, detached from all save God, the Ancient One. And God is knowing of all things. The people turned away from God and from the rewards of the twin Paradises, accursed with Satan's unbelief. They followed in their polytheism Satan's dominion, turning away from God, the Truth - and He is God, the Mighty, the Praised One - God, there is no God but He, the Truthful in utterance through the tongue of the Gate, in truth and by the truth, worthy of all gratitude. Soon shall We punish those who warred against Husayn on the banks of the Euphrates with the severest chastisement and mighty retribution, in truth and by the truth. What aileth you, O hosts of Satan? Did not the Truth come to you upon his steed on the Day of Ashura, after he had proclaimed unto you, in truth and by the truth, God's most great Cause from his own self, with utmost intensity? Did he not humbly seek water for himself and for his infant child, prostrate upon the earth in sublime truth, weak in that mighty Cause? BB00002

Consider how the Prince of Martyrs lived in the world for many tranquil years but it is the significance of his calamities borne from dawn until dusk, which are of such consequence. Hast thou ever heard mention of his other days? Nay, rather all remembrance of that luminous being is restricted to his days of suffering and adversity in the land of Karbila.  AB03768

The hostile band and foolish company--that is, the tyrannous and rebellious group--were happy and joyful on the plain of Karbila, constantly boasting before friend and stranger, saying "Praise be to God! The Wronged One of the horizons has been surrounded with his family, their hearts are burning with the heat of thirst, all their possessions have been plundered and pillaged, the blessed body has been torn to pieces, the pure blood has stained the black earth, heads have been raised upon spears, and enemies have risen in strife."   AB00222

