
Even as the Commander of the Faithful, the Imam 'Ali, has stated: I am but a servant of the servants of Muhammad.  BHU0036

"Then the disciple went to 'Ali. 'What do you say I should do in order to please God and to become nearer to Him?' 'One thing only: be truthful.'"   ABU2362

Dhu'l-Qarnayn refers to the Imam Ali, who traveled spiritually through all horizons and sought the Universal Manifestation, ultimately observing that the Sun of Truth was hidden in an earthen and watery form.  AB02587

'Abdu'l-Baha would quote the words of 'Ali, First Imam and Guardian (Vali), successor of the Prophet Muhammad. Asked 'What is truth?', 'Ali replied, 'When the True One is made manifest, His signs and verses are His evidence, His presence is His proof.'  ABU1910

His Holiness the Prince of Believers (Ali), peace be upon him, was on the edge of a roof when a stranger submitted: "O Ali, are you confident in God's protection, preservation and safeguarding?" He replied: "How could I not be, when I am the first believer in God?"  AB03291

He recited the verses of Thy Book for ten years while none believed in Him save Ali, the Commander of the Faithful, peace be upon him, His successor, the bearer of His knowledge, the inheritor of His wisdom, and He Who standeth in His station throughout all manifestations.   BB00176

The Kharijites in the time of His Holiness the Prince (peace be upon him), being incapable of proof and argument, resorted to the weapons of the powerless - they struck his pure head with sword and blade, and that king of the merciful ones was martyred by the sword of rebellion.   AB02425

Heard ye not that Ali, peace be upon him, was on the brink of a lofty mountain, when one of the doubters said to him, "Do you rely, O Ali, on God and His protection...?" He said: "And how could I not do so when He is the All-Protector, the All-Kind." He said: "Then throw yourself from the peak of this lofty mountain, if you are certain." He said, peace be upon him: "It is not for the servant to test his lord, neigh it is for God to test the servant."  AB04197

In an authentic tradition it is recorded that someone asked His Holiness the Commander [Ali], peace be upon him: "Is God the protector of humans?" He replied "Yes." The person asked "Are you certain?" He replied "I am confident." The questioner said "Then throw yourself from the roof!"  AB02462

Yet another of the valuable possessions of the Blessed Beauty was the prayer of Kumayl in the handwriting of the Imam 'Ali, son of Abu-Talib, in the Kufic style of calligraphy. The scholars of that day, including Mir 'Imad, had testified in writing that the handwriting was that of the Imam 'Ali. It was truly of such value that no price could be put on it.  ABU1117

The condemnation of God be also upon whosoever imputes to me the charge of having denied the unity of God, of having repudiated the prophethood of Muhammad, the Seal of the Prophets, of having rejected the truth of any of the messengers of old, or of having refused to recognize the guardianship of Ali, the Commander of the Faithful, or of any of the imams who have succeeded him.  BBU0012

Say: Have ye not heard that on the Day of Resurrection Ali shall take by the hand those who have believed in him and deliver them from the fire? Do ye not see how Ali hath aforetime declared: They have followed me in the Cause of my Lord? And whosoever followeth him in the Cause of his Lord, verily he shall be delivered therefrom and shall enter Paradise as a mercy from his Lord.  BB00004

when the second Caliph undertook to vanquish and consign to oblivion the interpreter of the Book, Imam 'Ali, to discredit him who was well-grounded in knowledge, to exalt and honour instead the ignorant sinner, and to abase the one designated by the statement Of whomsoever I have been the Master, 'Ali here shall be the Master, he resorted to the words "All-sufficient unto us is the Book of God" and "Sufficient unto us is the Qur'an"  AB00005

O knower of divine mysteries! Surely you have noted in authentic narratives that one day an unfortunate person said to the brilliant star and radiant light of the ethereal horizon, His Holiness the Prince of the Faithful (peace be upon him): If you trust in divine aid, protection, preservation and shelter, cast yourself down from the roof. That Chief of the God-fearing replied: It behooveth not the servant to test his Lord. Rather it is for the Master to test His servant. Testing is not befitting for the seeker; rather testing is among the prerogatives of the Sought One. It is not for me to test the Truth; rather it is He Who tests.  AB00766
