
But how can I prove to you that you are or have an immaterial soul? Can I measure, weigh, touch, prove your soul?  ABU0610

It cannot be said that the ethereal soul hath entered and penetrated this body, for the former is immaterial while the latter is bound by the restraints of time and space.  AB03491

Man possesses a gift by which he is distinguished from all other creatures-a spiritual principle which is bodiless, pure, simple, or uncompounded, which is superior to place and time.  ABU0780

The reality of spirit, because it is not corporeal, cannot be in bodily form. We cannot say it is like the fire, or like water, or like flame, or like odor. In the world of man it has no likeness.   ABU1881

Some say: "We cannot see the soul." This is correct, for the soul is incorporeal and not a body. Therefore, how can it be seen? Whatever is visible requires a body, and if it is a body, it is not a soul.  ABU0205

The human body is in space; the soul has no place in space. Space is a quality of material things and that which is not material does not partake of space. The soul, like the intellect, is an abstraction.  ABU0541

The spirit is absolutely placeless and immaterial, but it has a connection with the body, even as the sun has a connection with this mirror: The sun occupies no place within the mirror but it has a connection with it.  AB00336

The essence of the human soul is clarified from material substances and purified from the embodiment of physical things. It is exclusively luminous; it has no body; it is a dazzling pencil of light; it is a celestial orb of brightness.   ABU3067

There are two types of conditions and circumstances in life: those which are governed by the rule of matter, by the universal laws and principles of physical reality, and those which transcend these rules and break the limitations of external reality.  AB08042

The spirit, in its realm of abstraction, is independent of the body. It possesses all attributes. By itself, without need of the body, it sees, hears, and speaks; it is detached and separated from all physical powers, yet possesses all these perceptions.   ABU0551

Although the spirit is hidden from view, still its commandments shine out like rays of light upon the world of the human body. In the same way, although the Kingdom of heaven is hidden from the sight of this unwitting people, still, to him who seeth with the inner eye, it is plain as day.  AB05227

Even the ether, the forces of which are said in natural philosophy to be heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. Likewise, nature itself is an intelligible and not a sensible reality; the human spirit is an intelligible and not a sensible reality.  AB00259

The soul acts in the physical world with the help of the body. When it is freed from the body it acts without an intermediary. We see with our physical eyes, but with the help of our thoughts we can see other lands. America was discovered through the mind. The day the soul becomes detached from the body it has but this second means of action - without intermediary.  ABU1201

Although this is a serious topic and worthy of investigation, thou art of course aware that mixing and commingling, entering and exiting, ascending and descending, and penetration are among the properties of bodies, not souls. When referring to the soul, if 'penetration' is mentioned, this is not meant literally but metaphorically, since there exists in the spiritual world a condition that is sanctified from every conception that in this physical world can only be expressed through terms like 'entering,' 'penetrating,' 'mixing,' and 'commingling.'   AB05120

One more point remains. Modern philosophers say: "Nowhere do we see a spirit in man, and, although we have investigated the inmost recesses of the human body, nowhere do we perceive a spiritual power. How then are we to imagine a power which is not sensible?" The divine philosophers reply: "The spirit of the animal is not sensible either and cannot be perceived through our material powers: How do you infer its existence? There is no doubt that it is from its effects that you infer in the animal the existence of a power which is lacking in the plant, and that is the power of the senses--sight, hearing and the other powers.  AB00057

We have already explained that the spirit of man is not contained within the body, for it is freed and sanctified from egress and regress, which are among the properties of material bodies. Rather, the connection of the spirit with the body is like that of the sun with the mirror. Briefly, the human spirit is always in one condition. It neither falls ill with the illness of the body nor is it made healthy by the latter's health; it does not become weak or incapacitated, wretched or downtrodden, diminished or lessened--that is, it suffers no harm or ill effect on account of the infirmities of the body, even if the body were to waste away, or if the hands, feet and tongue were to be cut off, or if the powers of sight and hearing were to be disrupted.   AB00228

The rest of this tale comes without tongue / To the heart of one who possesses the light of soul   BH02611

Whatever the pen may write and the tongue may utter is but a drop from the surging ocean that exists within the reality of the soul and consciousness. It cannot be fully explained  AB06373

Whatever is spoken or written cannot interpret the secrets of hearts nor explain the verses of breasts. Only a drop from the ocean can be expressed, and but a single grain from the harvest revealed.   AB06649

It is beyond explanation, for it is a reality of the intellect, and not a thing which can be perceived. Perceptible realities can be explained. But the intellectual realities cannot be explained by or through words.   ABU1881

And this spiritual remembrance is sanctified above explanation and clarification, for this inner reality and spiritual state cannot be comprehended or depicted through partial minds and Arabic or Persian words or other physical languages.   AB04147

The description of the heart and soul remains still concealed, and this hidden mystery remains sealed. For how can pens have the capacity to record infinite meanings, and how can ink have the power to explain and expound the realities of the realm of heart and soul?  AB09836

I know not how to remember Thee or by what means to mention Thee, for I perceive that the very reality of remembrance is in itself severed from the places of Thy description, and in its essence and being is bewildered before the effulgent rays of the Sun of Thy Glory.   BH01626

As our knowledge of things, even of created and limited ones, is of their attributes and not of their essence, how then can it be possible to understand in its essence the unbounded Reality of the Divinity? For the inner essence of a thing can never be known, only its attributes.  AB00395


He said it was very difficult to speak of the Spiritual Kingdom in any way to make our finite minds understand, or even grasp a faint conception of its mysteries and glories; that when we speak of love, - a thing we all know well - we are obliged to make a comparison and say it is like fire, in order to convey the idea to the intellectual mind.   ABU1645

He said it was very difficult to speak of the Spiritual Kingdom in any way to make our finite minds understand, or even grasp a faint conception of its mysteries and glories; that when we speak of love -- a thing we all know well -- we are obliged to make a comparison and say it is like fire, in order to convey the idea to the intellectual mind.   ABU1645
