I told him: "We are no soothsayer: none but God hath knowledge of the unseen."   ABU0664

Thou canst never be worshipped as Thou deservest to be worshipped, and none knoweth how Thou art except Thee alone  BB00362

Whoso associateth with Him a name or attribute hath indeed joined partners with Him, hath not worshipped Him, and is an unbeliever.  BB00088

How then can my remembrance ascend to the heaven of Thy oneness and rise to the atmosphere of the glory of Thy mercy and Thy favors?   BH09919

How can the servant praise Thee despite his poverty and non-existence? And how can paths to Thy knowledge be established in one who is in want, given his limitations and remoteness?  BB00011

Here I stand in this station, confessing my powerlessness and shortcoming. I have not known Thee as Thou makest Thyself known to me, nor have I worshipped Thee as Thou callest me to worship Thee.  BB00019

I am certain that my worship befitteth not Thy holy court, nor is it possible that Thou shouldst be worshipped as Thou deservest to be worshipped through any of the manifestations of Thy creation.  BB00011

None hath worshipped Him in a manner befitting His holy Essence. Every being that hath desired to love His Essence hath been rejected before God and all creation, for it hath sought the impossible.  BB00017

For how could this be possible for the servant when the clay of his existence hath been kneaded with the water of limitation and need, and his essence hath been mixed with the signs of impotence and brokenness?  BB00011

All worship Thee, yet none worshippeth Thee as beseemeth Thy due. Indeed this utterance of mine is raised up to Thee through the Dawning-Place of Thy Self, where all worship Thee according to what Thou hast revealed in the Bayan.   BB00130

How can I move my lips in remembrance of Thee when I know that my remembrance and my existence are as nothing in the presence of the manifestations of Thy sovereign might and nonexistent before the revelations of Thy holy eternity?   BH05091

Thou art He Who maketh me know Thyself in every condition - that Thou canst not be known except through Thyself, nor described save by Thee, nor truly worshipped in Thine Essential Reality, nor praised in the Being of Thine Eternity   BB00156

Glorified art Thou above accepting unto Thyself one who worshippeth Thee not, or prostrateth not before Thee, or acknowledgeth not Thy oneness, or submitteth not to the sovereignty of Thy singleness, or boweth not before the King of Thy unity.   BB00190

Some worship Thee for what Thou givest them, some ask of Thee for what they desire of their needs, some abandon the world and its pleasures yet forsake Thy good pleasure in the Hereafter, some obey Thee out of fear, some worship Thee out of love...   BB00108

The One named by the name God is that Essence which all worship through the names wherewith He hath described His Self. Whoso associateth with Him a name or attribute hath indeed joined partners with Him, hath not worshipped Him, and is an unbeliever.  BB00088

Whoso worshippeth God through any of His attributes or names hath disbelieved in Him and hath worshipped naught. And whoso turneth unto Him through any of His servants hath not turned unto Him, and the face of His might veils him from beholding His countenance.  BB00090

I love Thee and worship Thee though I have neither the power nor the knowledge to do so as befitteth Thee. Glorified and exalted art Thou! Thy Reality is sanctified and Thine Identity is exalted above being known by anyone through anything save Thine Own Essence   BB00182

For as it is in itself, none can know its reality, nor describe its eternity, nor characterize its absolute independence, since all else came into being in the realm of possibility through creation and were endowed with existence in the station of being through invention.  BB00014

O Lord! No allusions can approach Thy presence, and even detachment, though a form of praise, falls short. Yet by Thy glory, I seek naught but utter negation in the face of Thy revelation. Alas, alas, that I should make mention of Thy Self or attempt to proclaim Thy unity!  BB00036

Should I say Thou art Thou, Thy Self and all Thy creation would give me the lie, for the servant can never know the Essence of his Lord nor unify the Reality of his Creator. Rather, in all conditions he knoweth the bounds of his own self and describeth openly his own reality.  BB00048

How can I make mention of Thee after realizing that any remembrance of aught else but Thee befitteth not Thy presence? Reason saith: Make no mention of Him, for He hath ever been sanctified above the remembrance of all beings and exalted beyond the recognition of all creatures.   BH04034

Thou art He who cannot be glorified by any praise from Thy loved ones. Thou art He who cannot be lauded by any tribute from Thy chosen ones. Thou art He who cannot be found through any expression of unity from Thy pure ones. Thou art He who cannot be magnified by any exaltation from Thy trusted ones.  BB00011

I have not known Thee as Thou didst bring me into being and deposit within my soul the sign of Thy revelation, and I have not worshipped Thee as Thou didst create me and inspire me with Thy remembrance of Thyself. Thou hast ever been manifest through Thy light while I remain veiled by my mention of Thee.  BB00013

I know not by what path I may worship Thee. If I fear contemplating Thy justice, my hope in Thy grace attracts me. If I hope to resemble the children of Thy eternality, I would be destroyed by the assurance of Thy origination and omnipotence. I know not by what means I may worship Thee or by what way I may know Thee.  BB00012

Thou wilt never be praised, nor glorified, nor thanked, nor unified, nor worshipped according to what Thou dost merit, for whatsoever proceedeth from the realities of contingent beings and is diffused throughout the kingdoms of earth and heaven are but signs created by Thy handiwork and manifestations realized by Thy invention.  BB00011

O my God! The path to knowing the true essence of Thy signs as they are is impossible, and thus the impotence to truly know Thy signs is the most conclusive proof of the impotence to know Thee. O my God! The nearest of Thy signs to my soul is my own soul, and my soul's inability to know its own true essence is among the most self-evident facts to my soul.  BB00040

How can one who has no way to comprehend the essence of knowing Thine eternity possibly worship Thee? Glorified art Thou above this, and exalted art Thou beyond that! All worship Thee according to what Thou hast created in them of the likeness of Thy creation, and all unite in Thy oneness through what Thou hast deposited within them of the signs of Thy handiwork.  BB00024

O my God! How can I call upon Thee when the ultimate end of my supplication returns to my own self, complaining of the wickedness of what my soul hath wrought? And how can I not call upon Thee when my heart is ever enthralled by Thy love and cannot endure separation from Thee, nor remain silent from communing with Thee, nor stay distant from the seats of Thy nearness?   BB00121

O my God! Through our disobedience to Thy command, I have fled from Thee unto Thee and taken refuge in Thy Self with Thee. I bear witness that I acknowledge Thy greatness and Thy justice, and I approached not my desires save through what Thy decree hath made felicitous for me - not through denial of Thy sovereignty nor through permission of what Thy Lordship hath forbidden.  BB00018

I bear witness that the ultimate extent of my remembrance of Thee is my inability to remember Thee, and that the utmost of my effort in thanking Thee is my poverty in offering thanks unto Thee. I know no other way for myself, nor can I bring forth any proof thereof, save that I behold Thee through Thine own eyes and declare: Thou art, Thou art my Beloved; Thou art, Thou art my Worshipped One   BB00069

I verily confess unto Thee, in this supreme ordeal and most exalted extremity, that I have not truly glorified Thee, nor can I ever glorify Thee, and I have not praised Thee, nor can I ever extol Thee. Rather, according to this my wretchedness and poverty, have I glorified Thee, being well assured that it befitteth not Thy sacred threshold, and acknowledging that it is unworthy of Thy sovereign justice.   BB00132

How can I describe Thee, after knowing that description is forbidden before Thy presence? How can I make mention of Thee, after being assured that mention is cut off from Thy court? How can I characterize Thee, after the way of attributes is barred from Thy countenance? How can I praise Thee, after praise is negated from Thy direction? How can I call upon Thee with hope after Thou hast removed me from Thy nearness?  BB00038

While all draw nigh unto Thee through their love for Thee, I draw nigh unto Thee through my acknowledgment that I do not truly love Thee, for this is impossible for anyone. Had I found the way and discovered the proof, by Thy glory, I would have been the first of interpreters. But after recognizing my limitations and observing the nothingness of my existence, how can I clothe falsehood in truth or vest the contingent with the Absolute?   BB00235

Glorified and exalted art Thou! None can point to Thy Being, for nothing hath existence at Thy level nor mention with Thee in Thy grandeur. When Thou didst manifest Thyself to all contingent things through the appearance of Thy creation, essences took on their essential nature by Thy command, and thus they described Thee in ways incapable of knowing Thine Essence. Had they known Thee, they would not have described Thee, and thus they have not unified Thee.  BB00029

Glorified is He! I bear witness that there is no God but Him, as He is, without any being able to know how He is, though I know my very existence is pure sin before Him - how then could my testimony of Him be worthy? Existence itself is steeped in sin and cannot indicate God. So glory be to God, though I know all paths are cut off; praise be to God, though I recognize all ways are blocked; God is Most Great, though I witness the impossibility of all records.  BB00076

In brief, it is certain that that Ancient Being dwells in the retreat of transcendence and the treasury of inaccessibility, established upon the throne of sanctification and abstraction. Entry and exit, ascent and descent have no place in that station. After this subtle point is established, it becomes clear to every person of insight that neither does the obedience of created things add to His glory, nor does the disobedience of existing beings detract from His majesty. Never can the deeds of the finite reach the court of the Eternal, nor can the stain of the transient soil the hem of His everlasting glory.   BH00834

O my God! Given such clear and evident powerlessness, such plain and manifest poverty in recognizing the least of the signs of Thy dominion in the world of creation, how then can I unloose my tongue to make mention of Thine attributes and to proclaim Thy virtues? How can I speak forth Thy praise and celebrate Thy glory in Thy presence? How can I extol the evidences of being and the realities of existence that are found in the world of allusions and the realm of creation? I have no recourse but to proclaim: "Hallowed and sanctified art Thou! Immeasurably high, exalted, and glorified art Thou!" and to implore pardon for this sin and transgression of mine, which hath filled me with shame before Thy loved ones. For to proclaim Thy sanctity and holiness is naught but to venture to describe Thee and, as such, is an evident sin, a shameful and palpable error.   AB00116
