the Believers must be present at the meetings  ABU2919

the friends are united, and like unto bright candles  AB04490

Your presence there is the cause of maintaining fellowship.  AB09029

Praise be to God that you have succeeded in establishing that Assembly  AB09480

Its charms and wonder lie in this, that it may become the center of the Bahais  AB10314

he would make such an effort to make his church a gathering place for Baha'is   AB04009

you are the cause of fellowship among the friends, the gathering of the loved ones   AB06059

adorn every gathering, so that all peoples may enter beneath the shelter of the Most Great Name  AB10658

Arrange gatherings of fellowship and like the trees of paradise bring forth the fruits of love.   AB01211

You had praised this year's Convention. This Convention will gain tremendous importance in the future.  AB06615

Communication with the friends of various parts is one of the greatest means of spreading the fragrances  AB10703

O sheep of God, ye must gather the flock in such wise that none remaineth astray and sought after in your midst.   AB03531

All the friends must strive so much in the development and beautification of lands that they bring the lands to life   AB06765

Exert yourselves, day by day, to increase the effects produced by this assemblage and to spread its pervasive influence.   AB06603

It is hoped that that gathering will become a reflection of the realm above and receive a ray from the Supreme Concourse.   AB03656

that the friends may become helpers of one another, companions and servants to each other, and achieve victory and triumph   AB01976

You should now be present in the gatherings of the friends there and be the cause of enthusiasm and joy for the loved ones.  AB03294

blessed souls have appeared in that city who are summoning the people to the Kingdom of God, are promoting the heavenly Teachings   AB07539

Nothing in the world of existence is greater than such gatherings as these because they have been called solely for the love of God.  ABU1919

may the Spiritual Assembly of Bombay progress day by day until it becomes the cause of the spread of brilliant verses in those regions  AB06216

"Cooperation and mutual assistance are the basis of the religion of God. The East must assist the West and the West must assist the East."  AB04820

The gathering of the friends is a reflection of the outpourings of the Supreme Concourse, therefore it is luminous and spiritual and divine.  AB06070

Although your gathering is small, yet since you are firm and steadfast, in the future this gathering will greatly expand and become complete   AB07096

The School for Girls that hath been established in that place must be made the object of the deep concern and high endeavours of the friends.  AB03327

The principles of consultation are among the greatest divine foundations, and the members of the community must consult even in ordinary matters.  AB07356

The divine friends must certainly exert their utmost effort so that once again the former school in Qamrud may be established with perfect order   AB03110

In truth, until these principles are observed and implemented in every city, the affairs of the loved ones of God will not be properly organized.  AB03167

He said the one essential, the only thing to do was that the members of the little groups should love each other very much and be devoted friends.  ABU3218

I fain would hope that in this centre of materialists, the people of God will flourish and be victorious, that the divine foundation may be laid down   AB04379

The Mashrak-el-Azkar, though outwardly a material foundation, is possessed of spiritual effect and causes the union of hearts and the gathering of souls.  AB00963

Whether in Cincinnati or in other cities, endeavor to produce perfect harmony and love among the beloved of God. This is the foundation of the Kingdom of God.   AB00569

I was pleased to know, also, that you have organized a committee for correspondence with all part of the world, and another committee to each the Truth to the youths.  AB03593

This is especially true if opposition and conflict arise between themselves, that is, among the friends. In such cases it is incumbent upon all to strive earnestly to resolve it.   BH04627

With utmost joy and fragrance gather in the merciful meeting and consult about every matter so that gathering may become the cause of fellowship, love and oneness of the human world   AB00889

"the friends in Shiraz are humble and suppliant at the Threshold of Oneness, and are intimate and harmonious with each other. For this reason, no disturbing news arrives from that land"  AB05135

If they cannot arrange to go every Sunday, they must go every other Sunday, if not every other Sunday then once a month. But they must come together and must keep up the Sunday School.   ABU3441

the divine friends must always associate and meet with each other with perfect wisdom, engage in the remembrance of God, and inhale from each other the sweet fragrance of the love of God   AB03806

In your letter was the glad tidings of the love, fellowship and unity of the illumined friends. This soul-cheering news brought the utmost joy and delight to the hearts of the longing ones.  AB01814

so that gathering may always remain gathered, not scattered, not dejected, not withered, but rather moment by moment become fresh and verdant, attaining boundless delicacy, grace and sweetness  AB06672

The desire of my heart and soul is to write individually to each one... Thus, I have considered the united souls of the friends as one spirit, and the radiant rays of the sun as one manifestation.  AB01436

At present thy purpose is to organize a meeting and to guide the souls to the Divine Kingdom. Excellent is thy intention. Found thou this meeting in thy own home and arise in the guidance of souls.  AB05252

If the Spiritual Assembly attains complete coherence, connection, blending and integration, it will succeed in mighty undertakings, the signs of divine confirmations will become manifest and apparent  AB11350

O ye spiritual communion! O ye gathering of God! Blessed are ye! Glad tidings be unto you! Bright be your faces, and be ye of good cheer, for ye cling to the Covenant of the Beloved of all the worlds   AB04432

God willing, God's special favors have been and will continue to be with her. The reward of no doer of good has been or will ever be lost. Verily thy Lord is the All-Bountiful, the Forgiving, the Generous.  BH00219

Today the confirmations of the Abha Kingdom are rushing and surging forward like the hosts of the Concourse on High, but discord between the friends of God becomes a barrier wall and an obstructing rampart.   AB04276

To have it [the Mashrak-el-Azkar] built is most important. Some material things have spiritual effect, and the Mashrak-el-Azkar is a material thing that will have great effect upon the spirits of the people.   ABU2684

Such gatherings spring from nobility of nature and loftiness of character, and cause hearts to be enkindled with warmth and fire. Friends become helpers, and loved ones, like the Pleiades, embrace one another.   AB11957

That assembly is the rose-garden of the Cause of God and that meeting is the gathering-place of the beloved of God. If it endureth, it is the first assembly of the world and is the greatest assembly of mankind.   AB06152

If the Bahai Assembly of Washington ariseth in a befitting manner to love, service and magnanimity, the lights of the love of God will be cast upon all sides from that Assembly and it will find more importance day by day  AB02919

The divine friends are waves of one sea and drops of one river, flowers of one garden and fragrances of one rose garden, stars of one heaven and lamps of one chamber. They must care for one another and be kind to each other.   AB02998

The Master also said the believers must always be together as much as possible. He said two lamps in a room give more light than one lamp, and that the believers are like flowers gathered from different bushes into one bouquet.   ABU1794

The hope is that, on account of the Divine Grace, the assembly of the maidservants of the Merciful may attain perfect organization, and, through their efforts in achieving complete continuity, realize their much-appreciated services.  AB02513

Now that you are members of the Spiritual Assembly, you must strive day and night with all your soul and render praiseworthy services to the world of humanity. That is, you must seek the good of all and the good pleasure of the Self-Subsisting Lord.  AB02608

This building will be the cause of unity and prosperity of the Cause. Then unity comes. From every part the believers will assist. This is a heavenly society. And, also, it will be the cause of strength. The believers will get blessings and bounties.  ABU1632

Today what is necessary for your honor is this: to act in whatever way possible that which will strengthen the cords of love. Whosoever acteth for the sake of God will assuredly be assisted by the effulgences of the lights of divine grace and will be aided.   BH00589

There is firm hope that the members of that assembly will become radiant lamps and cast the light of guidance upon that region, so that Shiraz may become the manifestation of mystery and the melody of secrets may spread throughout all the territories of that land.   AB04720

Praise be to God that the city of Qazvin has become such a banquet hall of the highest heaven that in the Festival of Ridvan the heavenly feast descended from the celestial kingdom. Gatherings of unity were arranged and assemblies of the new creation were adorned.   AB05782

O My friends! You are the foundations of the houses of the Cause. If the foundations be not firm, the houses will not endure. And you are the wellsprings of the earth of knowledge. If the source be muddy, it will spread to all the divergent streams, and all will become turbid.   BH01514

The fame of the loved ones in 'Ishqabad hath spread abroad and every discerning soul hath perceived therefrom the fragrance of the spirit and of divine favors. And should anyone spread reports contrary to what hath been spread abroad, this would surely cause abasement and humiliation.  BH11920

In any case, guide all the friends to oneness and unity and accord and agreement and love and fellowship and spiritual unity. If this gift, which is the eternal bounty of the Beauty of Oneness, becomes worthy and abundant in that land, surely the mystery of reality will become manifest  AB00314

Whatever place proves a focal point for the concentrated effort of the friends of GOD shall become a Center, provided, they live according to the Teachings of Baha'o'llah, consorting with one another in the utmost of love. Such a place will be at the Center be it Green Acre or elsewhere.  ABU0669

The news of the unity and harmony of the friends in Amzajird and the establishment of spiritual meetings and gatherings has brought joy and gladness. The friends must increase their unity and oneness day by day and show love and kindness to one another so that the human world may become an example of essential unity.   AB00185

O Solomon's hoopoe of divine majesty, make a journey to the verdant Saba and the blooming wilderness. You will find it prosperous, yet there are several ruined vaults. Build magnificent palaces and make a delightful paradise flourish. You will find a firm foundation and see the basis for the highest heaven established.   AB06381

Praise be to God, the maidservants of the All-Merciful in Tehran have established a gathering and engaged in service at the Threshold. It is certain that the protection of divine grace will arrive and the confirmation of the Divine Unity will encompass them, and that gathering will be successful in outstanding services.   AB05394

Soon you will observe that they will become thus with all humanity - they will see no strangers and observe no foreigners. They will become intimate with every soul and harmonious with every person. They will see all creation as signs of the power and grandeur of the Lord, and observe all humanity as manifestations of divine favors.   AB02138

What a wonderful meeting ye have arranged and longed for the beauty of service and have arisen to spread the fragrances of God! If this committee become firm, it will grow and develop; if it remain steadfast, it will become a gift of the Almighty to the human world; if it last, it will display marvelous signs for the well-being of the children of man!  AB03002

Spiritual gatherings established for teaching souls - whether men's gatherings, women's gatherings, or mixed - are all acceptable and necessary for spreading the divine fragrances. Likewise, a general gathering once per week where the friends come together, engage in divine remembrance, read prayers and deliver effective talks is acceptable and beloved.   AB01900

They must strive to solve such problems which would yield eternal results and consult about such matters which would benefit the world of humanity;- so that at the end of the vacation the members of the community may become richer morally, spiritually and intellectually and better means of livelihood for the poor be provided - thus may they become happier and more comfortable.  ABU0731

I hope all the friends of God and the maidservants of the Merciful will be assisted to attain to this gift... Announce to the believers in Baltimore the Glad Tidings of the infinite bounties of the Forgiving Lord and all of you - hand in hand - exert yourselves with heart and soul that day by day that region may become more illumined and your vast continent be perfumed with the fragrances of God.   AB01121

Regarding the gathering of the friends once a year in one of the cities of India that you had written about - this arrangement is agreeable if the gathering takes place with the utmost joy and fragrance. And if, as it should be, it proves difficult to gather with happiness, delight, unity and harmony, you must strive until the means of perfection are attained and this beneficial matter is realized.   AB00798

Among the friends of God, in particular, this strong foundation must be fortified in such wise that each soul may help the other in all matters, whether pertaining to spiritual realities and inner truths or to the material and physical aspects of life. Such is especially the case with regard to the founding of public institutions that benefit all people, and, in particular, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, which constituteth the greatest of divine foundations.  AB00362

Should the circle of this Society be widely extended and its various branches well organized and systematized it will remain firm and become established, and if its members arise with perfect unity and agreement, know ye of a certainty that at the end, it will become the greatest Society of the world, produce inexhaustible results and benefits, become the tree of the oneness of the realm of humanity and cast its all-encircling shade over the people of the East and the West.   AB01883

The world of humanity is in need of great improvement, for it is a material jungle wherein trees without fruit flourish and useless weeds abound. If at all there is a tree that beareth fruit it is overshadowed by the fruitless ones, and if a flower groweth in this jungle it is hidden and concealed. The world of mankind is in need of expert gardeners who may convert these forests into delectable rose gardens, may substitute for these barren trees ones that yield fruit, and may replace these useless weeds with roses and fragrant herbs.   AB04669

All we are servants of one Threshold, attendants at one Court, waves of one sea, drops of one stream, the dust before one door and plants of one garden. We must have general unity, not particular meetings. To organize assemblies is praiseworthy and acceptable, but these must be established for certain matters. For example: Assemblages for teaching, gatherings for the spread of the fragrances of God, gatherings for the relief of orphans, gatherings for the protection of the poor, assemblages for the spread of learning, societies of commerce, societies for the expansion of agriculture.   AB00590

