
Read, my daughter, the Holy Books of mankind   ABU3429

Hold fast unto the Book of God, then act according to what is therein   BH05084

Recite the Book of God; verily it will guide you to an exalted station.   BH08088

Blessed is he who pondereth the verses of God and readeth them at eventide and at dawn.  BH02333

Read it by night and by day, then glorify thy Lord with praise at morn and at eventide.  BH09828


Read ye the Tablets, that breasts may be illumined thereby and hearts may find tranquility   BH05310

"I wish you to study the works of the Blessed Beauty and to live according to His teaching."  ABU1896

It is also highly praiseworthy to memorize the Tablets, divine verses and sacred traditions.  AB08631

Take hold of the Book of God with the power that comes from Him, then recite it at all times   BH09927

Recite them morning and evening, and glorify your Lord with praise at daybreak and eventide.   BH05498

Read the books that are extant, in the meetings and assemblies, and memorize the vital points.   AB01926

Remember Him by night and by day, then follow what He has revealed in the scriptures and tablets.  BH06704

Read thou the Book of God that thou mayest know what hath been sent down from His wondrous Kingdom.  BH04719

When thou attainest unto the Tablet of God, preserve it and read it in a spirit of joy and fragrance.   BH00884

persist in reading the verses of God in Persian and Arabic, for this shall be the cause of eternal life  BH06461

Take hold of the Book of God with the power that cometh from Him, then recite it at eventide and at dawn.   BH06558

Take hold, O My loved ones, of the Tablet of God with a power from Him, then recite it by night and by day   BH09008

It is the religious duty of every Baha'i to read and comprehend the meanings of the old and new Testaments.  ABU3243


The object of reading and reciting is to understand the inner significance of the verses and mysteries of the Book.  ABU2749

At all times occupy thyself with the recitation of the verses of God and be diligent in pondering His firm utterances.  BH05700

Then read what hath been sent down from My presence, for thereby are the hearts of them that have knowledge attracted.   BH07611

Take hold of the Book of God with the power that proceedeth from Him, then make mention of Him at eventide and at dawn.   BH10469

Read thou the verses of God by night and by day. By My life, they draw the sincere ones unto God, the Lord of the worlds   BH08282

Strive to properly learn the Persian language so that you may recite the Tablets of Baha'u'llah and understand their meanings.   AB07252

In truth, in the first station and primary rank, the faculty of hearing was created solely for hearkening unto the blessed Word.   BH07336

Preserve thou God's Tablet and recite what hath been revealed therein that thy face may be illumined thereby amongst all peoples.   BH04392

When thou art honored with God's Tablet, recite it by night and by day. Verily it will draw thee nigh unto the most exalted station.   BH05792

Know thou the worth of what hath been sent down and dispatched to thee, then recite it morning and evening, nay rather at all times.   BH03299

Praise flows from the tongue of every growing and firm believer after reading it, for he becomes informed of the events and thoughts.  AB06541

How many servants and handmaidens there were who occupied themselves day and night with reciting divine books and heavenly scriptures   BH09815

Preserve what hath been sent down to thee from the heaven of grace, then recite it throughout the days and be not of the heedless ones   BH03193

Read ye the verses of God with joy and fragrance - they draw you to the Most Exalted Horizon and bring you near to the sublime station.  BH03076

Read ye the verses of God each day. Blessed is he who readeth them and pondereth thereon. He, verily, is of them that have attained.  BH11451

Read ye what hath been sent down unto you, then act according to what ye have been commanded in the Tablets, for this is a mighty good.   BH05918

When thou attainest unto this Tablet, recite it by night and by day, and glorify the praise of thy Lord, the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.   BH06928

When thou hast attained unto the Tablet of thy Lord, read it again and again, that thou mayest inhale the fragrance of the verses of thy Lord   BH08623

When thou attainest unto a Tablet of thy Lord, read what is therein with the most melodious voice. It will attract thee to an exalted station.   BH06293

Read thou My verses and ponder that which hath been sent down from the heaven of My Will and that which every heedless and veiled one uttereth.   BH08211

Blessed is he who readeth it and pondereth that which hath been revealed therein of the verses of God, the Almighty, the Mighty, the Chosen One.  BH10508

Hold fast unto the Book of thy Lord, then recite it by night and by day. It shall verily protect thee and draw thee nigh unto the Most Sublime Vision.   BH03143

Preserve thou this Tablet and recite it most days lest thou become heedless of what God hath willed for thee therein and be of them that are detached.   BH01979

Recite each day that which hath been sent down from the heaven of Command, that He may preserve thee in truth and establish thee upon the straight path.   BH03554

live in accord with the Exhortations of the Blessed Perfection and read the Hidden Words. Strive thou that thou mayest practice each one of these Teachings  AB08816

Rejoice in the glad-tidings of thy Lord, then recite what hath been sent down unto thee of the verses which the peoples of the world are powerless to enumerate.   BH07353

Read this Tablet in times when you find yourself detached from this world and all that is therein, that it may attract you to a station praised from all eternity.   BH01721

Blessed are those that read the verses of Our Revelation, and discover from them that which hath been purposed by their Lord, Who ordaineth whatsoever He desireth.   BH06550

If people would reflect and ponder a little, they would soon attain a state of awakening and realize that there is no shelter except under the shade of the Word of God   ABU1660

By the life of God! Every word thereof is the quickener of the dead and the manifestation of signs, and every letter thereof is, in the sight of God, more precious than all things.  BH06092

Read thou this Tablet in the nights and days. It will draw thee to a station wherein thou shalt hear from all things: "Verily, there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the All-Choosing."  BH02941

I ask God to make you proficient and learned in the language of the people of the East so that you may read by yourself from the writings of your Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB11868

The friends in every land should gather together with wisdom and utterance in meetings and assemblies to read the verses of God, for the verses kindle the fire of love and ignite its flame.   BH00443

Preserve the Tablet of God, then read what hath been revealed therein by night and by day, that it may create within thy heart that which will draw thee nigh unto a mighty and exalted station   BH02973

Acquire the Persian tongue, so as to learn of the meanings of the divine words and to know the divine mysteries, to develop an eloquent speech and to translate the blessed Tablets of Baha'u'llah  AB09814

When ye attain unto a Tablet of God and His traces, preserve it, then read it that the fragrances of that which hath proceeded from the mouth of the Will of your Ancient Lord may waft between you  BH02861

the handmaidens of the All-Merciful must strive night and day to acquire both outer and inner perfections and extensively study the glorious Qur'an and the noble Gospel. This is incumbent upon all.  AB01261

you gaze toward the horizon of oneness and are present in the gathering of the righteous. You study the lesson of teaching and become cognizant of proofs and evidences. This news brought joy. I hope that night and day you will strive with heart and soul, closing your eyes to all else, so that with a free heart and gladdened spirit you may pursue divine knowledge and heavenly mysteries, may become informed of divine proofs and aware of clear evidences  AB05790

Rejoice in what hath been sent down unto thee in this Tablet, then recite it in the nights and days. By My life, through it thou shalt find the fragrance of the Garment wafting from this exalted Station.   BH07134

This is a Tablet that all the treasures of the world cannot equal. Read it by night and by day - through it will God uncover what was hidden from thee.  BH03621

He would recite the Qur'an with careful pronunciation and would delve deep into the meanings of this Noble Book morning and night, finding in its verses the fountain of living waters and guidance to the path of salvation   AB01219

As commanded, at least once every month, the friends of God in whatever land they reside should, either collectively or individually, read whatever divine utterances have been revealed in this leaf and meditate upon them.   BH00445

Continue attending the study of the Book of Iqan with Mrs. Crook and likewise other Baha'i books. This will cause your progress and elevation in the divine Kingdom and you will become informed of the contents of the Cause of God.  AB08701

Preserve thou this Tablet, then read it and take comfort in it, and be of those who remember. Blessed is he who readeth the verses of God and pondereth them and draweth forth from their depths the pearls of a preserving knowledge.   BH00853

The teachings of Baha'u'llah are like uncut diamonds that the more you polish them the greater will become their brilliancy.   ABU2171

Preserve the verses of thy Lord, then recite them in the nights and days. By God! They shall draw thee to a station wherein thou shalt witness naught save the effulgences of the light of thy Lord's countenance, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.  BH11627

And concerning what thou didst ask about the return - read thou the Book of Certitude which the All-Merciful revealed when the Light was shining from the horizon of Iraq. Thus doth the Lord of all horizons command thee from His exalted station.   BH07379

It behooveth thee to read the blessed Surih of Ra'is, as well as the Tablets to the Kings...It is most strange that your honor hath not seen the divine Tablets, for had you observed them, you would have become aware of the power and might of God   BH01758

By God's life! Were the people of the earth to peruse but a single Tablet from among the divine Tablets with justice and fairness, they would all turn toward the Most Exalted Horizon and return from that which they possess unto that which is God's.  BH11886

Read the Tablets of His Holiness Baha'u'llah with a good melody, peruse them with the tone of the heart and of the spirit. It will confer life, it will quicken the dead and it will grant the power of light to every broken-winged bird and cause it to sing and chant.  AB12314

Whatsoever hath been revealed from the Supreme Pen is a lamp for the guidance of the servants and a guide and teacher for those in all lands. The recitation of any of these will be beloved and will become the cause and means of the outpourings of the Lord of all being.   BH03787

Encourage other children also to drink from this Salsabil spring and partake of this pure water... O Lord! Assist his peers and equals to learn knowledge and wisdom and to study the Torah and Gospel and Qur'an and examine the Bayan and manifest wisdom and understanding.  AB01172

Up to that period I had not had time to read the Koran from first to last, but then I had ample time and used to read this Holy Book with fervor and enthusiasm. Going over the incidents and events of the lives of former Prophets, and finding how parallel they were with ours, I was consoled and encouraged.   ABU1417

The Bible and Holy Books of other religions must always be studied and to be read in the Baha'i meetings. Their study will widen the circle of one's information and acquaint him with the wonderful prophecies fulfilled today. The reading and study of the Holy Books are essential so that man may become informed with the glad-tidings.   ABU1232

Recite ye the verses of God by night and by day, for this is the supreme bounty. Look ye unto that which hath been sent down from God, the Mighty, the Inaccessible. Verily in the Bayan is that through which ye shall find repose, and in the Bayan is that through which ye shall be glorified, and in the Bayan is that through which ye shall be adorned, and in the Bayan is that through which ye shall be magnified.  BB00003

We have counseled the servants to trustworthiness and religious devotion. In truth, the hosts that assist this Most Great Cause have been and are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. Blessed are they who, through these hosts, open the cities of hearts in the name of the True One, exalted be His glory. Ask thou the True One to aid the servants to recite that which hath been revealed and to meditate upon that which hath become manifest.   BH00493

Concerning the question about this blessed verse--His words, exalted be His grandeur: Recite ye the verses of God morning and evening--the intention hath been and shall be all that hath been revealed from the Kingdom of Utterance. This is what the Desired One hath decreed. O Zein! The greatest condition is the inclination and love of holy souls for the recitation of verses. If one verse, or even one word, be recited with spirit and joy, it is better than reading numerous books.  BH00079
