
Now deduction is the right of the body of the House of Justice, and the deductions and conclusions of individual learned men have no authority, unless they are endorsed by the House of Justice. The difference is precisely this, that from the conclusions and endorsement of the House of Justice, whose members are elected by and known to the universal Baha'i community, no dissension will arise; whereas the conclusions of individual divines would definitely lead to differences, and result in schism, division, and dispersion.   AB00151

if a soul on reading one of the blessed verses utters an explanation which does not harm the Cause, do not oppose him; for his talk is based upon explanation (elucidation) and not on interpretation.  AB03970

Consider what they said concerning the Qa'im for twelve hundred years, and most of those who related and narrated traditions were among the divines. Nevertheless, not a single word thereof was adorned with the ornament of truth   BH02668

Some people acclaim Christ as God; others regard Him as the Word of God; still others, as the Messenger of God. These differences have led to contention and strife. Thus, instead of spirituality, there prevails enmity among the people and instead of harmony, disharmony. But Baha'u'llah has shut the door to such differences. By His appointing the Expounder of the Holy Word, by setting up the Institution of the House of Justice, which is the legislative body elected by the people, and by enjoining non-interference in matters of belief and conscience, Baha'u'llah has barred the way that would lead to disruption in the Faith. He has even warned that if two persons disagreed with each other so as to create alienation, then both of them would be wrong and unjustified.  ABU2563

No one save 'Abdul-Baha can say that this or that is the intention conveyed in the Words of the Blessed Perfection (Baha'o'llah) and in his own written words. The spirit of unity exists in the Divine Words, and one who interprets them in such wise as to create a division and discord is indeed one who errs.  ABU0180

Any one quoting me must have authority written either with my own hand, or Tablets signed with my seal. Otherwise these statements do not belong to me. Every instruction, every teaching that I desire to spread I will write with my own hand. You must know this generally. Never accept any statement without my writing which is signed and sealed - any statement.   ABU1622

Whenever any soul explains any matter, he must have authority from the Verses of GOD and the Words of the Supreme, either from the Book of Aqdas of other Divine Tablets, If he is asked for the proof of his statements he must show the text of the book; that is his evidence. Briefly, every statement and word which is not based upon the Divine Texts is not Truth. No one must listen to it. No one must interfere with it. This is the irrefragable Command.  AB03556

Now it appeareth that some of the friends hold particular views and interpret the explicit emphases differently, whereas that which floweth from this pen is the decisive Text of God. There can be no delay whatsoever in its execution, and this is one of the fundamental conditions of firmness in the Covenant. The friends of God must consult on matters that are unknown, but for matters issued from the Pen of the Covenant consultation is unnecessary - that is the Divine decree, for it is the explicit Text.   AB00187

This conception of the sufficiency of the Book without an interpreter traceth its origin to 'Umar, who said "Sufficient unto us is the Book of God", and who claimed that one stood in need of naught else--that is to say, no interpreter. Thus did he lay the enduring foundations of contention and conflict, of enmity, fragmentation and division, among the friends and companions of the Prophet. These words became the basis of all the iniquities, rebellions and transgressions, nay, of all the bloodshed that was to ensue.  AB00005

When we read the Book of God, the faculty of comprehension by which we form conclusions is reason. Reason is mind. If we are not endowed with perfect reason, how can we comprehend the meanings of the Word of God? Therefore, human reason, as already pointed out, is by its very nature finite and faulty in conclusions. It cannot surround the Reality Itself, the Infinite Word. Inasmuch as the source of traditions and interpretations is human reason, and human reason is faulty, how can we depend upon its findings for real knowledge?  ABU0300

As soon as they begin to differ, both are wrong. So here, in this Movement, no one can say, My interpretation is correct.' As soon as two parties begin to differ, both are wrong. And then there is a Point to refer to, and he has appointed a Center, so that any difference which may arise may be referred to him, and that Center is the interpreter of the Book. After Him, there will be the House of Justice, and when that House of Justice is formed of the sanctified, perfect souls, and sagacious souls, that House of Justice will be the last resort. Whatever they decide will be correct.   ABU0703

Today, the obligation of all the friends of God in the divine court is to set aside, forget, and consider as things forgotten whatever beliefs they have heard, seen, or understood, and to accept only that which is explicitly and clearly stated by this servant. They must entirely close the doors to interpretation, allusion, and explanation, so that the mighty fortress of the Cause of God may remain protected and preserved from the interference of the unfaithful and the manipulations of innovators, that the doubtful may find no breach and seek no pretext, that beliefs may not become diverse and opinions may not multiply.   AB00165

These words were first uttered by 'Umar when the Prophet (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) said at the time of His passing, "Bring me pen and paper that I may write something for you whereby you will never go astray." He said, "The Book of God suffices us." Now "The Book of God suffices us" has been changed to "God has made all independent" and "return to the writings," meaning do not submit to the Interpreter, do not ask questions, do not act according to His good-pleasure, do not walk according to His guidance, and recognition is not necessary - be your own interpreter. And in this way the intent is to become free from the Covenant and Testament.   AB00155

According to the clear text of the Book of Akdas and the explicit contents of the Book of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Baha is the Interpreter of all the Word and Books of the Blessed Perfection, and not only of the Book of Akdas. This question is clear and evident to those who are informed of the Writings and Tablets. Were this not the case, every one would have given an interpretation according to his own inclination and considered his interpretation preferable to the interpretation of others - this would naturally lead to great differences. If someone interprets one verse of the Verses of God, and his interpretation is not approved by Abdul-Baha, it is not authoritative.  AB03970

The explicit text, the clear and manifest, the designated verses are present, yet the people of vain imaginings pursue the propagation of doubts, saying Let us gather and exercise independent judgment in the Book of God, and make whatever we conceive in our imagination the foundation of the Faith of God. Vain indeed is that which they do! While the garment of sanctity is still fresh and new, they have brought forth the apparatus of independent judgment. One says, Let us put forth the Book and make whatever we understand from it the criterion, and The Book of God sufficeth us, we have no need of one designated to expound it. Another says, Let us establish a religious democracy of faith and belief, wherein the ocean and the drop are counted as one, and the atom and the sun are considered equal in the degree of faith. Vain indeed is that which they imagine!  AB02540

And whatsoever of the divine verses they fail to comprehend, let them inquire of Him Who is their Source and Origin. The purpose of these words is that no discord may arise among the loved ones of God concerning the meaning of His words. Let them know that all divine utterances proceed from one Source and return unto Him. Beware lest ye find differences therein. Though outwardly revealed differently, in their inner reality they all return to and end in the same Word and the same Point. As it hath been mentioned in certain passages that none knoweth the meaning of God's words save God Himself. Without doubt this statement is true, for each letter of the revealed verses hath, in every one of the infinite worlds, its specific effect and particular meaning in accordance with that world. Likewise, each of the divine letters and words is a treasury of innate knowledge, and none hath discovered what is treasured therein save God.  BH00004

