Be thankful, be full of praise, pray fervently and tearfully.  AB07225

Give thanks to your Lord, then remember Him in the nights and days.  BH11903

Supplicate to God, pray to Him and invoke Him at midnight and at dawn.  AB05451

Recite thou the verses of guidance. Be engaged in the worship of thy Lord  AB05247

Rejoice thou in My remembrance of thee. Nothing in the kingdom can equal it  BH06250

In all the worlds [of existence] there is nothing more important than prayer.   ABU3462

continually supplicate and implore at the divine threshold, and pray for our good   AB04007

Make mention of thy Lord, then be thou steadfast in devotion, and bow down in worship  BH06048

I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me to know Thee and to worship Thee.  BH11209

By God! Whosoever findeth solace in My remembrance heareth My call from every deep valley.  BH11809

that thou mayest at every moment engage in praise, supplication and worship of the one true God  AB08821

Prayer and supplication are two wings whereby man soars toward the heavenly mansion of the True One.  ABU1900

Day and night I will stretch forth the hand of supplication and pray - you too supplicate and implore   AB06835

At every moment they bow their faces to the dust and seek assistance and favor from the Ancient Beauty  AB04101

Turn to the Lord of the Kingdom and in the early hours of dawn engage in the mention of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha   AB05119

I ask God to aid thee by the divine confirmation and engage, night and day, with the commemoration of God   AB05987

Take a firm step and chant prayers with the melody of the Abha Kingdom. Open your tongues in thanksgiving.   AB06576

It is incumbent upon thee to turn unto the Kingdom of God and to pray, supplicate and invoke during all times.   AB06490

Know the value of this station and be occupied with His remembrance in the nights and days, detached from all else.   BH06465

those who, in their love for Me, sleep but little and rise from their beds at dawn out of longing for My remembrance.   BH04080

Read my prayers always and thus see a wonderful effect, causing all superstitious powers and influences to vanish away.  AB06032

Neglect not praying and communing in the gloomy midnights and morn and eve, and offer glory unto thy Lord, the Supreme.  AB09019

Purify thyself from all remembrance, then remember thy Lord at eventide and at dawn, and in the morning and in the evening.   BH02737

"Spend thy time in humble supplication, intimate prayer and devotion to the Fulfiller of needs until God brings deliverance"  AB01440

Through His remembrance is every sick one healed of his illness and the hearts of those who have turned to Him are purified.   BH02529

Supplication causes one to draw nigh unto the precincts of His divinity and to beseech the help of God illumines one's spirit.  AB05760

Then preserve this Tablet and recite it in thy days with such devotion as to cause the hearts of the sincere ones to be attracted   BH07622

There is no state like the state of prayer. It attracts the pure hearts, awakens the holy souls, and confers remarkable spirituality.  ABU3755

Worship and the prescribed mentionings of God should not be abandoned, for such worship is a requirement set forth in the Book of God.  ABU2925

For the remembrance of God removeth all darkness from the hearts of His servants and rendereth them sanctified from all else besides Him   BH08686

"They raised the hands of supplication toward the heaven of Mercy, communed with their Maker and longed for the appearance of these Days."  ABU0814


Remember thy Lord at eventide and at dawn. He hath ordained for thee that which none knoweth save His own Self, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH03926

Bear ye witness even as God hath witnessed, then remember Him at eventide and at dawn... Remember God at all times and glorify Him with His praise.   BH05163

Turn to the Holy Shrine and whatever you seek will be answered. This turning has no nearness or remoteness - one can turn from any spot or any clime  AB06592

Therefore one must offer praise and prayer, and turn towards the Lord of creation, seeking the comfort of the eternal world and adorning this world.   AB05868

With a burning heart pray to the Kingdom of Glory by day and by night, commune with Him, and beseech that He may so enkindle thee from His lighted fire  AB09641

As much as you can, show humility and supplication at the threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty, and be intimate with the mention of the Most Great Name  AB04782

Glorify thy Lord with praise in the nights and days and say: Praise be unto Thee, O Beloved of the worlds and Goal of all who are in the heavens and on earth  BH05906

how with utmost devotion you would supplicate at the threshold of the Most Great Oneness and beseech assistance and protection from the court of the All-Merciful  AB05643

O servant of Truth, open thy tongue in prayer and with the utmost supplication and entreaty, show forth humility and need at the threshold of the All-Glorious Lord  AB09872

"I joined with you in communion and offered prayers at the threshold of oneness, that He may make mention of you in His Kingdom and shower you with endless favors."  AB05520

Recite this Tablet with sweet and manifest melody that thy song may ascend to the Divine Lote Tree and thy fragrance draw thee to a faithful and holy dawning-place.   BH01804

Mayst thou ever be in a prayerful attitude. In all the worlds of existence there is nothing more important than prayer. Prayer confers spirituality upon the heart.   ABU3462

I will beseech and implore at the threshold of the One, that the forgiveness of the Forgiving Lord may encompass you and the favors of the Desired One may surround you   AB05972

Prayer is both attitude and word; it depends upon the soul-condition. It is like a song; both words and music make the song. Sometimes the melody will move us, sometimes the words.  ABU3528

Know that nothing will benefit thee in this life save supplication and invocation unto God, service in His vineyard, and, with a heart full of love, be in constant servitude unto Him.  AB03258

From its contents and verses, signs of supplication and imploration were evident. This spiritual melody attracts the outpourings of the All-Merciful and brings about divine confirmations.  AB09223

"Our pathway is supplication and invocation, severance form all else save Him and communion with the Source of all benediction. If we are assisted in this we have attained if not, we are deprived."  ABU2776

you must occupy yourself day and night in the remembrance of God, engaging in supplication and prayer. You must recite the verses of divine unity and be raised up through the essence of sanctification  AB09576

Day and night they must turn in humility and supplication to the Divine Threshold, offer good prayers, and seek good recompense and reward. Surely this prayer will prove effective at the Divine Threshold.   AB03627

One night I was so hemmed in by My anxieties that I had no other recourse than to recite and repeat over and over again a prayer of the Bab which I had in My possession, the recital of which greatly calmed Me.   ABU3342

beseech the True One, exalted be His glory, that He may cause means to appear whereby the ruins of the world may be rebuilt, oppression be changed to justice, falsehood to truth, and poverty to wealth.  BH02219

Let them strive with wisdom to guide receptive souls, endeavor to educate children according to divine commandments, and arise to perform prayer, supplication, fasting and devotions as required by God's decisive command.  AB04485

Be diligent in the prayers thou hast in hand - the gates of bestowal shall be opened, supreme spirituality shall be attained, the observation of the greatest signs shall be made possible, and spiritual ascension shall be realized.  AB07380

Whenever you feel depressed, go alone into the secret chamber, read one of the Hidden Words and with the utmost supplication beg of Baha'u'llah to impart to you that happiness which is essential for the future. Pray with great humbleness  ABU2617

Know thou, O daughter of the Kingdom, that prayer and supplication are the water of life, they give life to existence and bring happiness and joy to souls. As much as thou can, be steadfast in them and call others to prayer and supplication.  AB00652

So always supplicate and implore at God's threshold, and ask God to create the means of fellowship and to assist and confirm you so that you may fulfill this task, lift this heavy burden, and endure every hardship and difficulty on this path.  ABU0478

Know thou that supplication and prayer is the Water of Life. It is the cause of the vivification of existence, and endows glad-tidings and joy to the souls. Show thou attention to this matter as far as thou canst, and summon others to prayer and supplication.  AB00308

Night and day we were engaged in prayer and supplication and service at the Threshold of the Lord of Verses. We were serving with some measure of freedom and praying for all, detached from any mention save the mention of God, and had attained some spiritual joy.   AB02424

In prayer one must turn his face towards the Sanctified Reality of His holiness Baha'u'llah--that Reality which surrounds all the phenomena. During the time of prayer His Holiness Baha'u'llah must be singly and alone the center towards whom all the faces are turned.  AB01787

Whensoever the worshipper communeth with his Lord, turneth wholly unto Him, and supplicateth some portion of His boundless grace, then this very act of supplication is a light unto his heart, a collyrium unto his eye, a source of life unto his soul, and a cause of exaltation unto his being.  AB01990

the highest aspiration of any who is attracted to the divine Kingdom is that he should obtain some free time daily that he might supplicate and implore His Beloved and seek the divine bounties and blessings of God, and beseech Him to become immersed in the ocean of His divine summons.  AB01907

Religion without prayer is no religion  ABU2144

"prescribed devotions are from the Book of God and are the cause of the hearts' remembrance, the spirituality of souls, the stirring of spirits, the expansion of breasts, and the manifestation of the love of God, trust, and devotion at the Divine Threshold"  ABU2144

The infinite bounties of God bear witness to the supplication and imploring of 'Abdu'l-Baha each morning. Thus would every soul who is alert and engaged in prayer and communion obtain a portion of this spiritual outpouring each dawn. The soul must needs be suppliant to God and perform the obligatory prayers  AB07923

Prayer need not be in words, but in thought and attitude. But if this love and this desire are lacking it is useless to try to force them. Words without love mean nothing. If a person talks to you as an unpleasant duty with no love or pleasure in his meeting with you, do you wish to converse with him? Efforts should first be made to make attachment to God.  ABU1481

The human heart finds no tranquility except through worship of the All-Merciful, and the human spirit finds no joy except through remembrance of God. The power of worship is like wings that cause the human spirit to ascend from the lowest depths to the Abha Kingdom and bestow true purity and refinement upon human beings. The goal cannot be attained except through this means.   AB01220

Hold fast to the cord of thy Lord's loving-kindness and say: O Thou through Whom the horizon of the world was illumined and the hearts of the nations were shaken! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word and by Thy Most Luminous and Most Glorious Countenance to aid me in Thy remembrance and praise and in serving Thy Cause, and to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for the best among Thy creatures.   BH05326

It is incumbent upon thee to supplicate to thy Lord, to seek His nearness with thy heart, to be submissive and humble before His maid-servants and to serve His great vineyard. Forsake the mortal grades (i.e., things of the world) and be engaged in praising thy Lord; so that His Holy Spirit may assist thee; may make thee a sign of faith and illumine thy heart with the light of assurance, and that thou mayest become a sign of peace, a servant of reconciliation, love and security.  AB02292

Concerning means and prayer about which thou didst inquire: Prayer is like unto the spirit, and means are like unto the hand. The spirit's control is exercised through the hand. Although the Provider is God, yet the means for obtaining sustenance is the earth--"and in heaven is your sustenance"--for when sustenance is decreed, it is obtained through any means. But to abandon means is like unto one who is thirsty seeking to quench his thirst without water or other liquids. The Bestower and Creator of water is the Almighty Lord, and He hath made it the means of quenching thirst. But it dependeth upon His will: if His will be not inclined thereto, dropsy will result and the ocean itself will not assuage one's thirst. AB08580

Man becomes like a stone unless he continually supplicates to God. The heart of man is like a mirror that is covered with dust, and to cleanse it one must continually pray to God that it may become clean, and the act of supplication is the polish which erases all worldly desires. The delight of supplicating and entreating before GOD cuts one's heart from the world. Therefore, prayer is a key by which the doors of the kingdom are opened. There are many subjects which are difficult for man to solve. But, during prayer and supplication, they are unveiled, and there is nothing that man can not find out.  ABU1226

I beseech Thee at this hour, before the dawn breaketh in this month which Thou hast associated with Thyself and clothed in the garment of Thy glory and arrayed in the robe of Thy grace, wherein Thou didst formerly send down Thy verses and ordain therein the measures of Thy creation, that Thou mayest cause to descend upon the hearts of those who have ascended unto Thee that which befitteth the loftiness of Thy praise, and upon the spirits which have risen towards Thee that which befitteth the sublimity of Thy glorification, and upon the souls which have been consumed in the path of Thy love that which befitteth the exaltation of Thy unity, and upon the bodies which have been severed from all else save Thee, with all that they possess, that which befitteth the elevation of Thy magnification.   BB00169
