Man must cut himself free from all prejudice and from the result of his own imagination, so that he may be able to search for truth unhindered. Truth is one in all religions, and by means of it the unity of the world can be realized.  ABU0091

We act in accordance with the Gospel. But we must also act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. They are--the oneness of the world of humanity, independent investigation of truth, abandonment of prejudice, universal peace, etc. ABU3267

First, to investigate reality or truth.   ABU0382

Let them investigate with their own eyes.  AB00455

First is the independent investigation of truth  AB07457

art summoning them to the investigation of truth  AB03956

They are seekers and desire to investigate reality.   ABU3159

Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the independent investigation of reality   AB00138

It is incumbent upon every soul to distinguish truth from falsehood for themselves.   BB00119

Baha'u'llah declared that imitation is not permitted - there must be investigation of truth.  ABU0031

Imitation in religion is not allowable. We must find the 'Why' and the 'Wherefore' for ourselves.   ABU1176

Today all are commanded to behold with their own eyes; hearing and seeing from others sufficeth not  BH06996

Second is the independent investigation of truth - all traditions must be abandoned and truth sought   AB01118

Among them is the independent investigation of truth, which demolishes the foundation of blind imitation.  AB01534

Independent investigation of the truth, which means that one has to refrain from blindly imitating others.  ABU0477

If the nations and peoples of today would abandon imitation and investigate reality, all would become united  ABU2822

The giving up of belief in traditional imitations, but unbiased investigation of truth is ever to be pursued.   ABU0365

Leave behind whatsoever you have heard and listened to in the past, and meditate upon that which is manifest today  BH06679

We counseled all in the Bayan to see with their own eyes and hear with their own ears in this Most Great Revelation  BH08723

I beseech God that with every passing day thou shalt increase...the intensity of thy fervour in seeking for the truth.   AB06843

The person of insight and knowledge speaketh not through imitation but rather through investigation which surrounds him.  BH02497

this gathering will investigate truth and cast aside all traditions in order to discover the reality of divine religions  AB03271

You have been delivered from antiquated traditions that tell tales of ancient times, and you are investigating reality.   AB04751

Today the most confirmed and successful matter in the world of existence is the matter of teaching and the investigation of truth.   AB07002

Therefore man must be free of all conceptions and ancestral traditions. Everything must be weighed on the scale of science and reason  ABU0532

Let no one assert and insist upon his own mere opinion; nay, rather, let each investigate reality with the greatest love and fellowship.   ABU1721

Search for truth. Seek the realities in all religions. Put aside all superstitions. Many of us do not realize the Reality of all Religions.  ABU2033

From among these teachings is the investigation of Truth, that prejudices must be totally eliminated and the lamp of Truth be instead enkindled.   AB00374

Unless a man give his whole thought to a subject, he cannot comprehend it fully. He must give his mind to the thing, be free, and then he will understand it.   ABU2795

"Doubt in all things divine and human is praiseworthy and commendable, for doubt will awaken the thirst for knowledge, the instinct to know, the hunger for faith!"   ABU0148

to purify the hearts of Thy loved ones from the veils of fancy and imitation, that they may know Thee with their own eyes and behold Thy beauty with their own sight   BH05090

My hope is that you will rid and purify yourselves of imitations so that your thoughts and minds will be broadened and elevated, that you will be seekers of the truth  ABU2128

If thou wishest to discover the mysteries of the divine Kingdom, move beyond the world of imitation, observe with thine own eyes, hear with thine own ears, and carefully consider   AB01592

The first matter with which souls are charged is the investigation and search into the realities of things. It is incumbent upon man to be a seeker after the discovery of every truth  ABU2829

Now, as long as you are interested in the Movement, and interested seriously, and you are investigating reality, you are the lover of reality, there is no doubt that you will attain.   ABU1014

Therefore, all these traditions must be set aside. These conflicting traditions must be set aside and the truth must be sought, for truth cannot remain hidden. Investigate for yourselves.  ABU0032

They must awaken the peoples and nations of the world and free them from dogmas and imitations. They must pass beyond the world of names and fix their gaze on realities and inner meanings.  ABU1989

The Blessed Beauty often remarked: 'There are four qualities which I love to see manifested in people:... third, that they see all things with their own eyes and not through the eyes of others'  ABU3292

Every soul must, in this day, ponder upon that which hath been revealed, and investigate with his own understanding and discernment, lest he be deprived of the effulgent rays of the Sun of Truth.  BH10225

We should strive to promote the truth regardless of what our opinions may be. In this way the divine confirmations will surround us. Our aim should be to promulgate reality, not our own opinions.  ABU0792

This knowledge dependeth upon the recognition of His servants who perceive the Truth through their own vision and heart and nature, for imitation sufficeth not, whether in acceptance or rejection.  BH02135

One's sphere of knowledge should be expansive, and in all conditions one should seek awareness. The more one drinks, the thirstier one becomes - not that with one sip one should display self-sufficiency  ABU2983

That which is befitting and conducive to the salvation, prosperity and reformation of the world and its peoples is but one thing: that the servants should observe and hearken with their own eyes and ears.   BH00982

They were awake and vigilant, enamored with truth and attracted to mysteries. During their lifetime they never rested nor relaxed, they investigated truth and strove to discover the mysteries of existence   AB11885

Search then, for this source of illumination. Wherever you find there are the signs of Fire, turn your face toward it without hesitation. Be thou an admirer of reality and give no heed to superficialities.   ABU1631

"The first principle of Baha'u'llah is the Search after Truth" "If a man would succeed in his search after truth, he must, in the first place, shut his eyes to all the traditional superstitions of the past."   ABU0282

And thou, rend asunder the veils of idle fancy and blind imitation, and be possessed of spiritual insight. Pay no heed to the people, for they are caught in the grip of creation and are weak in their essence.   BH01696

In Green-Acre you must concentrate all your thoughts around the one all-important fact - the investigation of Reality. You must expend all your thoughts on this thing - so that the union of opinions and expressions may be obtained.  ABU0925

The teachings say first to investigate reality,- to forget hearsay. For he does not know who does not investigate he must examine truth and hold to the truth found. Outside of reality there is only superstition.  ABU1933

Baha'u'llah exhorts men to free their minds from the superstitions of the past and to seek independently for truth putting aside all dogmas. Religions are one. Let us banish creeds that the reality may become unveiled.   ABU0108

The essence of all that We have revealed for thee is Justice, is for man to free himself from idle fancy and imitation, discern with the eye of oneness His glorious handiwork, and look into all things with a searching eye.  BH02183

The first is the independent investigation of truth; for blind imitation of the past will stunt the mind. But once every soul inquireth into truth, society will be freed from the darkness of continually repeating the past.   AB00197

Let us thank God who has drawn us together this evening. It gives me great joy, for I see that you are seekers after truth. You are not held in bondage by the chains of prejudice, and your greatest longing is to know the truth.  ABU0091

O seeker of truth! Your letter was received. Praise be to God, your eye of understanding has become seeing, and you have gained spiritual hearing. You have searched and attained to the truth and discovered the heavenly mysteries  AB04069

Behold the sun with your own eyes - thus have you been commanded in all the Tablets, if you be of those who know. Were you to behold it through the eyes of others, by My life, you would never recognize it - this is a certain truth.   BH05498

Likewise, when you meet those whose opinions differ from your own, do not turn away your face from them. All are seeking truth, and there are many roads leading thereto. Truth has many aspects, but it remains always and forever one.  ABU0491

Therefore it is incumbent upon him to examine for himself what he has heard from the ancients and not be content with what he sees from his fathers. If he does not do this, he has squandered God's bounty which was bestowed upon him.  AB00018

God has given us rational minds for this purpose, to penetrate all things, to find truth. If one renounce reason, what remains? The sacred texts? How can we understand God's commands and to what use can we put them without the balance of reason?   ABU1902

Whosoever desires to know the history of this Cause and its tenets must come to us and not go to those who are predisposed and biased. For if the seeker goes for gaining information to the latter people he will surely deprive himself of the real facts.   ABU3421

"read but a single Tablet from among the wondrous Tablets, and likewise the writings of others, and judge for yourselves. Should anyone arise with fairness, he will undoubtedly, after hearing the divine verses, instantly turn toward the realm of oneness."  BH02751

Look to the matter of religion: whatever agrees with the Book and the Practice of God, accept it with certainty and act upon it. When any new matter arises, present it to just and unworldly persons - if they confirm it, then accept it; if not, then do not.  BB00407

Therefore, it is our duty to ever investigate reality, no matter what words or which lips utter that reality. We must investigate reality in whatsoever Book we may find it unrolled. We must investigate reality in the persons of whomsoever it may be revealed.  ABU0022

The rule, then, which we should adopt in our investigations, is this: In determining every question we should refer it to these four standards, and a conclusion which is supported by the verdict of all we should accept; any other we should regard as uncertain.  ABU0648

Now observe with penetrating vision, with a pure heart, and with complete fairness, and reflect, that the truth may become clear to you and the path of God which hath appeared in truth may become manifest, and that you may find yourself possessed of clear certainty.   BH01137

By God, I speak not from idle fancy, but rather the Spirit speaks within my breast - this is my proof, if you be of the fair-minded... Say: O people! Do not as did the people of the Furqan, and place not the reins of your recognition in anyone's hands.   BH00434

If we investigate the religions to discover the principles underlying their foundations, we will find they agree; for the fundamental reality of them is one and not multiple. By this means the religionists of the world will reach their point of unity and reconciliation.   ABU0149

At the time of each Manifestation of God the people were heedless and ignorant of the truth except for a few who investigated and understood the divine words. The same is true today. So thank God that you have been endowed with capacity and desire to investigate the truth.  ABU2465

Whosoever desireth to attain unto the recognition of the Lord of this Day must needs detach himself from all that he hath seen and heard, and must, with an eye sanctified from the film of vain imaginings, observe within the very Essence of Truth, and ponder upon His signs.   BH08659

Praise be to God that in every Society thou didst investigate the Reality and at last thou didst attain to the Center of Reality. Those societies were like so many stages on the road but the Kingdom of Baha'u'llah was the final goal and the object of the heart and the soul.  AB08466

The station of fairness requireth that no matter be accepted save through direct vision - that is to say, that man should witness with his own eyes and gain knowledge thereof. The intention is that one should not be content with mere hearsay regarding the Manifestation and its degrees.  BH11641

Two things are necessary today: one is the shattering of the idols of fancy and imagination that have existed before, and the other is attainment to the horizon of certitude. This is the station of the Most Great Steadfastness that hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen in former Books.  BH09333

Second, Baha'u'llah's teaching is the independent investigation of reality, for when religions investigate reality, they become united, as reality is one and does not accept multiplicity. Conversely, as traditions differ, so long as they follow traditions, they remain in conflict and strife.  ABU0062

No man should follow blindly his ancestors and forefathers. Nay, each must see with his own eyes, hear with his own ears, and investigate truth in order that he may find the Truth; whereas the religion of forefathers and ancestors is based upon blind imitation - man should investigate the truth.   ABU0225

First among the great principles revealed by Him is that of the investigation of reality. The meaning is that every individual member of humankind is exhorted and commanded to set aside superstitious beliefs, traditions and blind imitation of ancestral forms in religion and investigate reality for himself.   ABU0038

We both (Theosophists and Bahais) have abandoned all dogmas in our earnest search for truth. But look at the tribes and nations of the world--why are they seething with contention? Because they are not seeking truth. Truth is one. It admits of absolutely no division and accepts neither limitations nor boundaries.   ABU0302

If thou wishest a discerning eye and seekest for a hearing ear, set thou aside that which thou hast heard from fathers and ancestors, for such things are imitation--and then seek for the truth with the utmost attention until the divine confirmation may reach thee and the matter may be properly disclosed unto thee.  AB05724

In America it is different, people are more spiritual, they seek the knowledge of God, they hail the truth no matter from what quarter it comes. If they learn that there is a house in China [the] architecture of which is a marvel, they like to know all about it. In brief, they are a nation of independent investigators.  ABU3039

Consider what it is that singles man out from among created beings, and makes of him a creature apart. Is it not his reasoning power, his intelligence? Shall he not make use of these in his study of religion? I say unto you: weigh carefully in the balance of reason and science everything that is presented to you as religion.   ABU0493

What a vast difference exists between those people who are endowed with intelligence and understanding, and those who are devoid of these spiritual graces! The former are the angels of the world of humanity and the bright rays of Truth. Without prejudice and pre-conceived ideas they investigate every subject presented to them.  ABU0580

The friends of God must always try to know the why and the wherefore of every problem. God has given them the reason, the intellectual faculties;- so that they may search, investigate, and not accept anything blindly or on mere assertion. They must constitute themselves as a community of truth-seekers, truth-lovers and truth-spreaders.   ABU1315

Therefore one must search after truth, become enraptured and enthralled with any sanctified soul in whom one finds it, and become wholly attracted to the outpouring grace of God. Like a moth one must be a lover of the light in whatever lamp it may shine, and like a nightingale one must be enamoured of the rose in whatever bower it may bloom.  AB00086

When man attaineth the age of maturity, he must investigate and, putting his trust in God and sanctified from love and hate, reflect upon that whereunto the people adhere. He must hear with his own ears and see with his own eyes, for if he looketh through the eyes of another, he will be deprived of beholding the effulgent rays of the Sun of Divine Knowledge.   BH00528

Another new principle revealed by Baha'u'llah is the injunction to investigate truth -- that is to say, no man should blindly follow his ancestors and forefathers. Nay, each must see with his own eyes, hear with his own ears and investigate the truth himself in order that he may follow the truth instead of blind acquiescence and imitation of ancestral beliefs.   ABU0130

I had the greatest longing to see the friends in America, to see those souls who are joyous because of the glad tidings of God, who are attracted by the fragrances of God, who are rescued from traditional imitations of the past, who are freed from superannuated dogmas, who ever investigate reality   ABU1732

"As to the teachings of Baha'u'llah, they are, first, the investigation of truth. The fundamental principle of all the Prophets is Truth. Truth is one. Abraham was the promulgator of truth; Moses was the servant of truth; Christ laid down the cornerstone of truth; Muhammad was the propagator of truth; the Bab was the herald of truth; and Baha'u'llah was the light of truth."  ABU0521

I offer thanks to God for the privilege of being present in an assemblage which is commemorating Him, whose members have no thought or intention save His good pleasure and the unbiased investigation of reality. I praise God for this meeting of human souls free from the bondage of imitations and prejudice, willing to examine reasonably and accept that which is found to be true.   ABU0174

Firstly: He lays stress on the search for Truth. This is most important, because the people are too easily led by tradition. It is because of this that they are often antagonistic to each other, and dispute with one another. But the manifesting of Truth discovers the darkness and becomes the cause of Oneness of faith and belief: because Truth cannot be two! That is not possible.  ABU0257

One should read and also gain insight into the depths of things. When these two are combined in one being, it becomes excellent. But if a person limits their thoughts to what scholars have said and written, it is of no benefit. These must be set aside and matters investigated experimentally from their foundation; one must search for truth, then new matters will become evident and clear.   ABU0860

Everyone is giving an account of his religion and statements of his religion, the history of his religion. But there is no investigation of the realities. There must needs be an investigation of the Realities, for only through the reality will results be obtained; because thoughts are various, and imitations are so various. Therefore, we must investigate reality, discovering what Reality is.  ABU2534

"Yesterday we mentioned that the first thing necessary for man is the investigation of truth, and in investigating truth one must forget whatever one has heard and inherited from ancestors or acquired from others' thoughts, and must consider all religions on earth equally, having neither attachment to one nor aversion to another, so that one can distinguish which religion accords with truth."   ABU0457

Therefore, man must see everything with his own eyes and not through the eyes of others. He must investigate reality for himself so he may properly understand the true state of things. Otherwise there are differing statements. Every people in the world has its own opinion, every nation its own purpose. If people were fair and would investigate reality, differences would vanish and all would become united and agreed.  ABU1132

The first principle of Baha'u'llah is independent investigation for truth, that is, all the nations of the world have to investigate after truth independently and turn their eyes from the rotten blind imitations of the past ages entirely. Truth is one when it is independently investigated, it does not accept division. Therefore the independent investigation for truth will lead to the oneness of the world of humanity.  AB00481

The first principle Baha'o'llah urged was the independent investigation of truth. "Each individual," he said, "is following the faith of his ancestors who themselves are lost in the maze of tradition. Reality is steeped in dogmas and doctrines. If each investigate for himself, he will find that Reality is one; does not admit of multiplicity; is not divisible. All will find the same foundation and all will be at peace."   ABU0083

When a person of insight enters the path of spiritual wayfaring, after purifying and sanctifying the soul from all that God loveth not, multiple paths appear and he traverses them. This is why they have said "The paths to God are as numerous as the breaths of created things." However, if through God's grace the eye is blessed with the light of truth, it will be observed that the Truth is one, the Path is one, and the Cause is one.   BH01200

Therefore a person must see things through his own eyes and not through the eyes of others and investigate the truth of the matters by himself and not rely on the words of others. Every group has its own claim, and each nation has its own proclivities. If people would consider matters with equity and investigate the veracity of things by themselves, then no discord would remain, and all would embrace one another in unity and oneness.   ABU0917

Man must be thirsty for water. He must be seeking the pure water, not the fountain; and he must know that the same salubrious water may gush from different sources. One must be a lover of the fruit, not of the tree. From whatever tree this fruit may come we must like it. The nightingale loves the flower, in whatever garden it may blossom. There are many who have loved the jar, not the wine; they should love the wine in any jar whatsoever.   ABU0712

The first teaching of Baha'u'llah is the duty incumbent upon all to investigate reality. What does it mean to investigate reality? It means that man must forget all hearsay and examine truth himself, for he does not know whether statements he hears are in accordance with reality or not. Wherever he finds truth or reality, he must hold to it, forsaking, discarding all else; for outside of reality there is naught but superstition and imagination.   ABU0233

But with the Americans it is different. They may be proud of their civilization, because they have made the desert blossom like unto the rose, but they are not satisfied with it, they are seeking after new solutions of old and modern problems, they are thirsty for salubrious water, they are hungry for the bread of life, they are investigating the reality of everything. Their hearts are open, their minds receptive and in discussion never overbearing.  ABU0866

First, man must independently investigate reality, for the disagreements and dissensions which afflict and affect humanity primarily proceed from imitations of ancestral beliefs and adherences to hereditary forms of worship. These imitations are accidental and without sanction in the Holy Books. They are the outcomes of human interpretations and teachings which have arisen, gradually obscuring the real light of divine meaning and causing men to differ and dissent.  ABU0012

The first teaching is that man should investigate reality, for reality is contrary to dogmatic interpretations and imitations of ancestral forms of belief to which all nations and peoples adhere so tenaciously. These blind imitations are contrary to the fundamental basis of the divine religions, for the divine religions in their central and essential teaching are based upon unity, love and peace, whereas these variations and imitations have ever been productive of warfare, sedition and strife.  ABU0040

God has given man the eye of investigation by which he may see and recognize truth. He has endowed man with ears that he may hear the message of reality and conferred upon him the gift of reason by which he may discover things for himself. This is his endowment and equipment for the investigation of reality. Man is not intended to see through the eyes of another, hear through another's ears nor comprehend with another's brain. Each human creature has individual endowment, power and responsibility in the creative plan of God.  ABU0019

Among the fundamental principles of the divine religion is the search after truth. When all mankind seek after truth, since truth is one, it will unite all the sects of the world. Truth is knowledge; the foundation of divine religions is knowledge. Knowledge creates unity of hearts. Truth is fellowship between people. Truth is the abandonment of prejudice. Truth is to see all humanity as servants of God. Truth is to know all nations of the world as servants of one God. Truth is to see all things alive through one divine bounty.  ABU0235

Forms must be set aside and renounced; reality must be sought. We must discover for ourselves where and what reality is. In religious beliefs nations and peoples today are imitators of ancestors and forefathers. If a man's father was a Christian, he himself is a Christian; a Buddhist is the son of a Buddhist, a Zoroastrian of a Zoroastrian. A gentile or an idolator follows the religious footsteps of his father and ancestry. This is absolute imitation. The requirement in this day is that man must independently and impartially investigate every form of reality.  ABU0150

Your letters were received. They showed that ye have investigated the truth and have been freed from imitations and superstitions, that ye observe with your own eyes and not with those of others, hearken with your own ears and not with the ears of others, and discover mysteries with the help of your own consciences and not with those of others. For the imitator saith that such a man hath seen, such a man hath heard, and such a conscience hath discovered; in other words he dependeth upon the sight, the hearing and the conscience of others and hath no will of his own.   AB04757
