Q. Are the Manifestations sinless? A. Yes, there must be a standard of perfection for human example.   ABU3610

"Under any circumstance, this action of the Popes shows conclusively the fallibility of their judgment."   ABU2892

Praise befitteth the most holy and exalted court of the Desired One, Who hath, through a single blessed word, barred the way to doubt, misgiving, vain imaginings and idle fancies, and through the power of that same word hath preserved His loved ones from dangers. That blessed word is "He doeth whatsoever He willeth and ordereth whatsoever He pleaseth." Whosoever is assured of this word is established upon the throne of certitude and abideth in the station of faith. The waves of idle fancies shall not withhold him from the truth of certitude, nor shall the hosts of vain imaginings keep him back from the dawning-place of the Divine Manifestation.   BH00372

Some among mankind are ever intent upon denial and objection, as evidenced by how the people of the Bayan have repeatedly inquired why the Point (the Bab), may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake, made mention of David, the Psalmist, before Moses, peace be upon Him, when historically David came after Moses. This seems to them contrary to the Holy Books and the traditions of the Messengers. Say: Fear God and object not to Him Whom God hath adorned with the Most Great Infallibility, His most beautiful names and His most exalted attributes. It behooveth the servants to affirm whatsoever proceedeth from the Dayspring of God's Cause, for none save God is aware of the requirements of His consummate wisdom. He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth, and He is the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  BH00018

You had also written, and this is its form: "As for religious law, after reaching forty years which is true Islam, it is against wisdom for a believer to turn back or become veiled - what do you say about this?" Consider those believers who were present at the beginning of this wondrous Revelation - they were all among the clergy whose obedience you considered obligatory and deemed obedience to God. What happened that suddenly the decree of unbelief was applied to all except those souls who believed and acknowledged the truth, even if they were among the lowliest of servants? As was observed, those who were not known for scholarship and whom no one paid attention to - when they attained faith in the truth, verses of purification and infallibility were revealed concerning them and they were counted among the Prophets and saints in God's presence. And regarding infallibility, the Primal Point, exalted and glorified be He, hath declared that whosoever believeth in Him is infallible, and whosoever believeth not is bereft of infallibility. He hath further declared that infallibility is not what the followers of the Qur'an have imagined, who have regarded religious precautions as infallibility. Rather, infallibility belongeth to him who, at the time of the Manifestation, believeth in God, even though he be accounted among the lowliest of creation.  BH00097

One day, Jesus son of Mary - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - was walking with several of His disciples when they came upon a dead dog. They expressed disgust, saying they detected a foul odor. That Source of compassion and mercy said, "How white are its teeth!" Observe now how He concealed the fault - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loving-kindness. This was solely to teach His companions that all should fix their gaze upon the good deeds of others and conceal one another's faults. We bear witness that He is verily the All-Knowing, the Wise Teacher. Perfect infallibility has been and shall ever be confined to God, exalted be His glory. None has had or shall have a share of this most pure fountain, and assuredly all but God have been and shall ever be prone to error.  BH00418

We are all believers in the oneness of God and acknowledge the inherent infallibility of the Blessed Beauty - there is no disagreement about this   AB01041

The Prophets of the Word could not sin. They possess the power and will to violate the Will of God, but the desire to do so is never present in them.  ABU3184

The most important thing is to establish the validity of God's universal Manifestation; once His claim proveth true, then whatsoever He may choose to say is right and correct.  AB00263

O believers, whatsoever fruit of the Messenger He giveth you, accept it, and whatsoever He forbiddeth you, forgo it, for God hath made him wise in truth before Us.  BB00002

He hath come with an authority before which neither the hosts of Pharaohs nor the ranks of tyrants can stand. Thus hath the Pen spoken when the Wronged One was established upon this exalted station.   BH00286

The substance of the soul of the Prophet is purer than that of the average mortal, it has no traces of ungood impulses, it is aflame with Divine Fire. That is why true Prophets are not susceptible to defilement by sin.  ABU0218

As to infallibility, it is possible for man to be under divine protection and God may preserve him from error. For instance, the moon has no light of itself but receives light from the sun. This is the infallibility of the human world. A skilled physician protects man from every illness. Praise be to God that you are serving through divine teachings, and the more you serve, the more doubts will vanish and the manifest truth will become clear and evident. AB00657

Otherwise we must regard as admissible the opening of the Gate of Saintship, and consider that He Who is to arise of the family of Muhammad possesses two signs: the first condition, Holy Lineage; the second, [that He is divinely] fortified with brilliant verses.  AB00003

O Thou Kind One, grant them a refuge and shelter and bestow upon them a protecting sanctuary, that they may abide under the shadow of Thy protection and care and be preserved from error. For the great sinner cannot be the manifest guardian, and the erring invalid cannot be the protector of the mighty Faith, and the misguided one cannot be the guide to the path, and one liable to error cannot be the center of guidance and the expounder of the mighty verses. AB02106

I say, and upon God do I rely, that the disobedience of Adam, peace be upon him, is mentioned in the Wise Book, and God, glorified and exalted be He, said: "And Adam disobeyed his Lord, and went astray" and "We found no firmness of purpose in him." And He said concerning Dhun-Nun (Jonah), peace be upon him: "And remember Dhun-Nun, when he departed in wrath: he imagined that We had no power over him." And He addressed the Noble Messenger: "Verily We have granted thee a manifest victory: that God may forgive thee thy preceding and following sins." These verses speak explicitly concerning the Prophets and contradict the Most Great Infallibility, whereas the Holy Divine Manifestations are light upon light, untouched by the darkness of sins, and their divine reality is unsullied by traces of disobedience, for they are the suns of guidance, the full moons in darkness, and the stars of heaven. How then could darkness befall the sun, or veils and obstacles conceal the moon?... In brief, the noble Messengers, the great Prophets, the luminous Manifestations, the merciful Realities, the perfect Words, the conclusive Proofs, the brilliant Suns, the shining Moons, and the gleaming Stars - all their luminous inner beings are sanctified from the touch of darkness, and their divine consciences are purified from the stains of vain imaginings. God addresses them thus only for a wisdom, that those possessed of understanding might humble themselves and submit, and abase themselves before the Mighty, the Bestower, and not become proud even if they ascend to the highest chambers, but rather awaken to how the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting addressed the Great Beloved, the Honored Light, the Guide of nations, and the Speaker of the Most Great Name with such decisive address and reproof.  AB00134

The Most Great Infallibility is reserved to the Manifestations of God, who protect those who are under their shadow. The Universal House of Justice is under the shadow of the Most Great Infallibility and the Blessed Beauty preserves it from error: should it occur to anyone's heart that a decision of the House of Justice is inapt, he has indeed erred.  ABU3666

These holy Souls are sanctified above every sin and freed from every fault. These blessed Souls are light, and light cannot be united with darkness. They are life everlasting, and life cannot be gathered in with death. They are guidance, and guidance cannot be brought together with waywardness. They are the very essence of obedience, and obedience cannot join hands with rebellion.  AB00168

In this connection I asked concerning infallibility, whether by this is intended the Power of the House of Justice to do and order that which it willeth, or whether it refers to another state. 'Abdu'l-Baha said in part: "Infallibility is of two kinds; 1) Intrinsic or immediate Infallibility, 2) conferred, extrinsic or mediate Infallibility. Intrinsic or immediate Infallibility means that of God, exalted is His Glory, and none else save Him has any portion thereof. He is the doer of that which He willeth. And His Infallibility is especialized to His Universal Manifestations who appear at the head of each great Cycle. The conferred, extrinsic or mediate Infallibility is that of those Holy Souls who are under the protection of the Divine Manifestations, for preservation from error is conferred upon souls as a pure gift of God. God's Infallibility is intrinsic, whereas that of the Holy Souls under the protection of His Manifestations is extrinsic, for it is acquired as a gift or quality from them. For instance, the light of the Sun is intrinsic or immediate, but the light of the planets is acquired from the Sun and is therefore extrinsic. The light of the Sun is independent of the planet, while that of the planet is dependent upon the light of the Sun. To be brief, God will raise pure, righteous and sincere beings for the House of Justice who will be under His protection and the decrees of the House of Justice shall be effective in all matters not especially 'provided for in the Book.'  ABU1334


He Who is the Dawning-place of God's Cause hath no partner in the Most Great Infallibility. He it is Who, in the kingdom of creation, is the Manifestation of He doeth whatsoever He willeth. God hath reserved this distinction unto His own Self, and ordained for none a share in so sublime and transcendent a station. This is the Decree of God, concealed ere now within the veil of impenetrable mystery. We have disclosed it in this Revelation, and have thereby rent asunder the veils of such as have failed to recognize that which the Book of God set forth and who were numbered with the heedless.  BH00001


In this day certain souls have claimed infallibility apart from God, even as the people of the Qur'an have spoken without understanding and have never comprehended the true intent of infallibility. The ordinance of infallibility is fulfilled today in this wise: every soul who, after hearing the Word of God and His Call, is assured with the word "Yea" is of the people of infallibility, and whosoever is other than this is excluded from infallibility. Even as the Point of the Bayan—may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for Him—declareth, addressing 'Azim: "Verily the Cause hath transcended all limitations. Thou dost purify servants at the time when God manifesteth Himself to them through them. They have known God their Creator and have been patient therein and have not complained, until Thou makest them like unto those Thou didst make aforetime from among the Prophets and the Successors and the Martyrs and those who are nigh. By My life, wert Thou to make them present in the number of all things, Thou wouldest make them such, and naught would be diminished from the sovereignty of God by any measure, nor would aught be increased by any measure. But Thou seest that that station requireth the Most Great Infallibility. And infallibility is not what Thou seest among the people through their precautions in their religion, for when they heard the call 'Am I not your Lord?' they did not say 'Yea'—they have departed. But infallibility belongeth to those who, when God said 'Am I not your Lord?' said 'Yea.' And verily God hath not spoken to anyone save through the Manifestation of His Self in every Revelation." [Panj Sha'n, BB00005] After this exposition, which is the most explicit of all words that have descended from the Pen of God, who else can establish infallibility for himself save after acknowledging this Most Great, Most Mighty Cause? Today all people, in whatsoever station they may be, are excluded from infallibility, save those souls who have been assured of this Most Holy, Most Transcendent Manifestation.  BH00006

Thou choosest servants when God reveals Himself to them - through them they know God their Creator, and they were patient therein and doubted not, until I made them like those I made before of the Prophets, Successors, Martyrs and Near Ones. By My life, were they to appear to the number of all things, I would make them so, and nothing would be diminished from God's dominion. But thou seest that for such a station the Most Great Infallibility is required. Infallibility is not what people imagine in their religious precautions, for when they heard the call "Am I not your Lord?" and did not say "Yea," they went astray. Rather, infallibility belongs to those who, when God said to them "Am I not your Lord?" said "Yea." And God speaks to none except through the tongue of His Manifestation in every dispensation.  BB00005

Were all the degrees of infallibility to be revealed from the Supreme Pen, much of what is hidden would be unveiled, and the oneness of God and the station of true unity would become manifest and evident like unto the sun. The hand of power hath rent asunder the veils, yet the people of the Bayan are determined to present anew their vain imaginings and idle fancies in a new guise, despite the fact that divine wrath, namely the deafness and blindness of those heedless and ignorant souls, hath encompassed them. BH00222


How excellent is the state of the soul that has entered the divine sanctuary, which is the abode of infallibility and the place of God's manifestation, becoming stirred by the vibrations of beauty and delighting in the sweetness of reunion. BH01771

Among the people is he who claimeth the inner meaning and thereby holdeth back the people from a path which hath been straight in the eternal past. Say: The inner meaning is this Outward One Who proclaimeth from the midmost heart of the world that the Lord of all nations hath come - He Who was hidden behind the veils of the unseen in glory. Whoso speaketh today what the Tongue of Grandeur hath spoken, verily he is of the people of infallibility. God hath preserved him through a sovereignty that encompasseth the worlds. BH00968

As to the question asked about the blessed word - although the exact verse is not in view - O beloved of my heart and the one remembered in my heart, most utterances are revealed in the language of the people, and in the heavenly Books there are many such instances. No one has been or is aware of the consummate divine wisdom and inner mysteries of the Lord, except for that which He Himself reveals and commands His servants to follow. The Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - in one place states that "if anyone claims for Me special prophethood, guardianship or particular gateship, he has uttered falsehood and I am innocent of him". Yet in another place He speaks that which the reality of understanding is powerless to comprehend. The Truth, exalted be His station, is the possessor of the Most Great Infallibility, and the meaning of the Most Great Infallibility is that error, mistake and forgetfulness have no access whatsoever to that realm. This is the station of "He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth." If He declares the qiblih to be toward the east, it is the indubitable truth, and if He declares it to be toward the west, likewise. Even as in the Qur'an, the Beloved of all possibility, in accordance with the command of the All-Merciful, turned toward the qiblih of Islam to which they turn today. "Were He to pronounce the earth to be heaven, no one hath the right to question why and wherefore." I swear by the Sun of Truth that were a breeze from the direction of this station to pass over the withered trees of possibility, all would be seen fresh and verdant. Blessed are they who understand.  BH00831

None but the Truth Himself, Who possesseth the Most Great Infallibility, hath been or is His partner in this station. All else are created by a word. This is true unity whose light hath shone forth from the horizon of the Supreme Pen's heaven. Think that thou mayest know.  BH00548

Today is the day of true monotheism. All have been created by God's Word. The Most Great Infallibility belongeth exclusively to God, exalted be His glory - none shareth with Him in this station. The Letters, whether of the past or future, are all created beings, and the source of all is the Divine Word, and the educator of all is His grace.  BH00547

The Wronged One hath turned toward thee from the precincts of the Prison and maketh mention of thee with a remembrance that shall not be overtaken by forgetfulness, oversight, negligence or oblivion. He is the possessor of the Most Great Infallibility and the Sovereign Who doeth what He pleaseth. Were all the peoples of the world to meditate upon this most exalted Word and to drink from the ocean of its meanings, they would find themselves seated upon the thrones of faith and certitude and would regard all else besides God as non-existent and as naught.  BH00606

For twelve hundred years and more they made mention of the Qa'im and related countless traditions and reports, yet failed to comprehend even a single letter of the signs of His appearance as they truly were. Every learned one who shut himself out from the ocean of knowledge hath lost, while every heedless one who hastened and drank hath said: "Praise be unto Thee, O Quickener of the worlds!" For years these souls were occupied with manifest and subtle polytheism, yet never perceived it. Those who were created by a single word from God's Messenger they regarded as his peer or even his superior. Though outwardly some would not admit this, yet from their statements and expressions this matter is clear and evident. Through ignorance they attributed the Most Great Infallibility, which belongeth solely to the True One, to His subordinates. They thus set up partners with God unknowingly, for they were among the ignorant. The station of the Most Great Infallibility is the station wherein God doeth what He willeth. In that realm there neither is nor hath been any possibility of error. Whatsoever proceedeth from the Source of the Unseen and the Dawning-Place of Revelation is and shall be the truth, and naught else is mentioned at this station.  BH00466

Man is prone to error, for the Most Great Infallibility belongs exclusively to God Himself. BH01122

However, the loved ones of God must fix their gaze upon the horizon of His Cause and what appears from Him, not upon what appears from others, for infallibility is an ornament reserved for God alone, while error, mistake and forgetfulness have been and are the lot of all others.  BH00460

I beseech God to ever adorn these souls with the ornament of steadfastness, for none save God Himself possesseth the Most Great Infallibility. I ask of and implore God to preserve these servants beneath the canopy of His grace and to strengthen them to be steadfast in all conditions.  BH00515


This Wronged One hath ever been and still is occupied with the mention of the servants and handmaidens of God. We beseech God to adorn His handmaidens with the ornament of the Most Great Infallibility and to ordain for them that which shall be the cause of eternal mention and everlasting praise.  BH11217

Praise be unto God Who hath made the Most Great Infallibility the shield for the temple of His Cause in the realm of creation, and hath assigned unto no one a share of this lofty and sublime station - a station which is a vesture which the fingers of transcendent power have woven for His august Self. It befitteth no one except Him Who is seated upon the mighty throne of 'He doeth what He pleaseth'.  BH00053

Pending the formation of the House of Justice, Baha'u'llah has appointed the Centre of the Covenant, affirmed His infallibility and, with His blessed Pen, has solemnly secured His Covenant.  ABU2731

The House of Justice is so mighty an organization that no one shall have the right to resist or oppose it. By that is meant the Universal House of Justice. That is, when all the local Houses of Justice of the different countries will be represented in the organization of a General House of Justice, that House will rule over all. For such a House of Justice shall be under the protection and infallibility of the Blessed Perfection and favored by His confirmation.  ABU2906

You asked about the infallibility of past Prophets. The Holy Manifestations "speak not from desire - it is naught but revelation revealed." They are the Manifestation and "God will make Himself known to you, nay rather the Self of God standing with His laws." They are sanctified above the comprehension of all else and holy beyond the imaginings of the doubtful and suspicious. Refer to the divine texts which explicitly mention their Most Great Infallibility, both in the writings of the Exalted One and the clear verses of the Blessed Beauty, including the Visitation Tablet for the Prince of Martyrs, upon him be greetings and praise.  AB00353

Know that infallibility is of two kinds: infallibility in essence and infallibility as an attribute. The same holds true of all other names and attributes: for example, there is the knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge of its attributes. Infallibility in essence is confined to the universal Manifestations of God, for infallibility is an essential requirement of their reality, and the essential requirement of a thing is inseparable from the thing itself. The rays are an essential requirement of the sun and are inseparable from it; knowledge is an essential requirement of God and is inseparable from Him; power is an essential requirement of God and is likewise inseparable from Him. If it were possible to separate these from Him, He would not be God. If the rays could be separated from the sun, it would not be the sun. Therefore, were one to imagine the Most Great Infallibility being separated from the universal Manifestation of God, He would not be a universal Manifestation and would lack essential perfection. But infallibility as an attribute is not an essential requirement; rather, it is a ray of the gift of infallibility which shines from the Sun of Truth upon certain hearts and grants them a share and portion thereof. Although these souls are not essentially infallible, yet they are under the care, protection and unerring guidance of God--which is to say, God guards them from error. Thus there have been many sanctified souls who were not themselves the Daysprings of the Most Great Infallibility, but who have nevertheless been guarded and preserved from error under the shadow of divine care and protection. For they were the channels of divine grace between God and man, and if God did not preserve them from error they would have led all the faithful to fall likewise into error, which would have wholly undermined the foundations of the religion of God and which would be unbefitting and unworthy of His exalted Reality. To summarize, infallibility in essence is confined to the universal Manifestations of God and infallibility as an attribute is conferred upon sanctified souls. For instance, the Universal House of Justice, if it be established under the necessary conditions--that is, if it be elected by the entire community--that House of Justice will be under the protection and unerring guidance of God. Should that House of Justice decide, either unanimously or by a majority, upon a matter that is not explicitly recorded in the Book, that decision and command will be guarded from error. Now, the members of the House of Justice are not essentially infallible as individuals, but the body of the House of Justice is under the protection and unerring guidance of God: this is called conferred infallibility.... In sum, the meaning of "He doeth whatsoever He willeth" is that if the Manifestation of God issues a command, enforces a law, or performs an action whose wisdom His followers cannot grasp, they should not think for a moment of questioning His words or actions. All souls are under the shadow of the universal Manifestation, must submit to the authority of the religion of God, and are not to deviate so much as a hairsbreadth. Rather, they must conform their every act and deed to the religion of God; and should they deviate from it they will be reproved and held accountable before God. It is certain that they have no share of the station "He doeth whatsoever He willeth," for it is confined to the universal Manifestation of God. AB00227
