The Kingdom of God is pre-existent   ABU3569

This is the day wherein every soul can attain a station that will endure throughout the past and future eternities  BH08106

Existence has eternal permanence. Show me something that is not eternal.   ABU2254


How large is the Creation of God! How stupendous is His machinery! How infinite is His dominion! How majestic is His divine system! How imperial is His Holy Court! They could then realize the grandeur and infinity of the universe. They would see with their own eyes how stupendous and magnificent are these shining stars. They would behold the wonders of the Almighty treasured in His Universal Creation.  ABU2615

"The creation of God is infinite. The worlds of God are numberless...The light travels about one hundred eighty thousand miles in a second and there are certain stars, the light of which takes 8 yrs to reach the earth. Such is the infinitude of the universe of God."  ABU1707

O Name of the Merciful, bear thou witness that God hath ever been and shall ever be a Living, Eternal Being, even as He hath been.   BB00523

In childhood, whenever I heard about Ptolemaic principles that the seven celestial spheres were like seven circles each within another and each circle encompassing another circle, My heart would feel confined. From childhood We did not like limited space and atmosphere, until one day in a prayer revealed from the Supreme Pen I heard mention of infinite space. Immediately upon reading it I became so delighted it defies description. ABU2315

"In the divine world there is no beginning and ending. From a material standpoint there may be the first and the last, but from the spiritual standpoint there is neither first nor last."   ABU0469

One day I was reading one of the Tablets of Baha'u'llah in which it was stated that this is "infinite space." Then I was made very happy. I realized that I am no longer a prisoner of the limits of the world  ABU2382

Days shall pass and times shall come to an end, but the favors of the Blessed Beauty shall remain steadfast and enduring, and the bounties of the Most Great Name shall eternally embrace the everlasting and the infinite.  AB09244

"Baha'u'llah says, 'The universe hath neither beginning nor ending.' He has set aside the elaborate theories and exhaustive opinions of scientists and material philosophers by the simple statement, 'There is no beginning, no ending.'"  ABU0403

when physical bounty is unlimited, how could spiritual bounty be limited? When a drop is unlimited, how could the ocean be limited? When an atom is unlimited, how could the sun be limited? When the physical world is infinite, how could the spiritual world be limited and finite?  ABU0085

This physical universe is infinite, and if material existence is endless, how much more so are the worlds of God! When we think of the visible worlds as infinite, how can we think that the worlds of God are limited? There is no beginning and no end to the material or spiritual worlds.  ABU0819

"Our guest is right, the human intellect cannot form a distinct idea, a clear conception of where and how time may cease and flow into eternity. It is not with logical understanding that we can capture the concept of eternity in the nets of our reason, but it is the mystic, the intuitive power of perception which approaches and touches this concept. Let me point, O my listeners, to the following fact: To the eternity of time belongs the infinity of space and the omnipotence and the imperishability of power (= might, creative power, original force). One without the other is wholly unthinkable and illogical."  ABU1069

This globe with all the infinite forms of life teeming through its length and breadth is but a grain of poppy in comparison to this stupendous creation and man is a part of this grain of poppy.  ABU2797

The Dawning Places of Unity, the Daysprings of Singleness and the Suns of Holiness are also sanctified beyond the bounds of number, and the luminous spiritual worlds are exalted above limits and restrictions. In like manner the worlds of bodily existence the mind of no man can reckon nor the understanding of the learned comprehend. Consider the following well-known tradition and examine its meanings indicative of the vastness of the cosmos and its awesome limitless expanse: 'God, exalted be He, fashioned one hundred thousand, thousand lamps and suspended the Throne, the earth, the heavens and whatsoever is between them, even Heaven and Hell - all of these in a single lamp. And only God knows what is in the rest of the lamps.'  AB00023

In its outward appearance it is a station of questioning, yet inwardly it is the station that bars the way for all created things. Then know the wisdom of its appearance from the words of the Almighty: The Night of Power is better than a thousand months. And know in that station that things are never devoid of three ranks: the eternal, which has neither beginning nor end; perpetuity, which has a beginning but no end; and time, which is realized through the motion of the supreme sphere by the rising of the sun and moon and the appearance of day and night.  BB00105

