
I swear by the Sun of the horizon of My Cause that were they to open the eye of the heart, all would behold the Truth as existing and all else as non-existent.   BH05698

For amongst those who claim allegiance to the Qur’an, how many judgments are prevalent, which contradict that which is revealed by God. And this non-mentioning before God pertaineth to their inmost realities, and not to that which is derived thereof. For that derivative which refereth unto the non-truth, returneth unto his inmost reality, and inasmuch as his inmost reality faileth to point towards God, it is not even mentioned before Him. Likewise that which is derived from the inmost realities that are endued with truth, returneth unto them. Should these inmost realities be signs that are securely established within the mirrors of their heart, and not the mere transitory and borrowed ones, they would return unto their true habitations, in both the Beginning and the Resurrection.  BB00001
 
which is folded within the essence of the heart   AB06793
 
Whatever I might say and whatever I might write, I cannot express and explain the reality of the intimacy and fellowship that has been realized in the essence of the heart.   AB05191
 
"Thy heart is My home; sanctify it for My descent. Thy heart is My dwelling place; cleanse it for My manifestation"  AB05239
 
The state or condition through which the healing takes place is the condition of the heart.   ABU3345
 
As for the true, divine balance which never strayeth, and which ever comprehendeth the universal realities and the sublime inner meanings, it is the balance of the inmost heart [mizanu'l-fu'ad], of which God hath made mention in the blessed verse. It is an effulgence of the brilliant lights of the Divine Outpouring, the secret of the All-Merciful, the manifestation of sincere faith, and the lordly sign.   AB00207
 

This heart became empty and filled with Christ, meaning divine outpourings and heavenly inspirations.  AB03367
 
Purify the heart - which is the dawning-place of the Beauty of the All-Glorious and the gathering-place where shineth forth the Lord God - from all contingent things  AB12326
 
Know that God, glorified be He, hath made the greatest of His gifts to the people of possibility the faculty of the heart [fu'ad], and the possessors of understanding have agreed, with the confirmation of the All-Merciful, on this purpose, as their master hath spoken and recorded with the pen of ink that the heart is the highest faculty of man. God hath made this faculty the seat of His exalted Name, the repository of His impenetrable mystery, and the station of His knowledge for the people of proclamation. He hath specially chosen it for Himself and preserved it for His Day, withholding it from all cycles until this our cycle, and severing it from all ages until this our age. God hath made it a perfect word comprised of four parts together, and God hath taken a covenant from all things at the beginning of their existence - were they not to pledge allegiance to God they would not affirm His unity. The All-Merciful hath concealed it to preserve the station of the Known One, and its Creator hath named it the Fire of God to indicate the warmth of His nearness - and it is the kindled Fire of God which riseth above the hearts. God, glorified be He, intended by that House those hearts, and by the men the kindled fire, and by the names their names, and by the attributes their attributes. The All-Glorious hath named it the House of His Oneness - whoso entereth it knoweth God to the extent possible in the realm of contingent being, that He is the Truth, there is no God but Him, there is nothing like unto Him, and He is the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing. And whoso remaineth ignorant of it, the Fire shall encompass him through God's justice, the Sovereign, the Subduer. BB00346


