Thirdly: His Knowledge must be innate and spontaneous and not acquired.  ABU1402

His perfections must be innate, not acquired; and His writings must be unbounded bestowals, not the products of the finite disciplines of this limited and contingent world.  ABU3698

The Holy Spirit was always with Christ. He knew about his mission from early childhood. Yes [the Bab, Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha also knew of their mission from early childhood]. From childhood it was apparent to him, like the sun.   ABU3339

From the beginning, that sanctified Reality is undoubtedly aware of the secret of existence, and from childhood the signs of greatness are clearly manifested in Him. How then could He fail, in spite of such bounties and perfections, to be conscious of His own station?  AB00477

All have witnessed that at the time of His birth there appeared signs that were unique to His station and manifest only in relation to His rank. At the very moment His body appeared, signs of prophethood were inscribed upon His shoulder in such wise that none other could possibly attain to this mighty station.  BB00014

At age seven, one day as the Blessed Beauty was walking, His mother, observing His blessed figure, said He was somewhat short in stature. The father of the Blessed Beauty said, You do not know what capacity and capability He possesses, how intelligent and brilliant He is. He is like a flame of fire. At this young age He surpasses mature youth. In childhood He gained remarkable fame among friend and stranger alike, and the signs of divine gifts were clear and evident. He was beloved by all.  ABU0123

Say: The Holy Spirit Itself hath been generated through the agency of a single letter revealed by this Most Great Spirit, if ye be of them that comprehend. And that innate and untaught nature in its essence is called into being by the verses of God, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the Best-Beloved. Say: This nature prideth itself in its relation to Our transcendent Truth, whilst We, for Our part, glory neither in it nor in aught else, for all beside Myself hath been created through the potency of My word, could ye but understand.  BH00007
