
The dream thou hast seen is in accord with thy interpretation.   AB04606

I have read your letter speaking of your orientation toward God, your being stirred by the divine breeze, your attraction to the Spirit of God, and your discovery of the mystery of existence and the image of the Lord of Hosts. This indicates that the doors of spiritual disclosure will be opened to you and the Spirit of Truth will confirm you with clear signs.  As for your vision of this servant in your prayer, this is evidence of spiritual nearness, spiritual unity, and mystical impression. At all times I implore the divine Kingdom to make your heart a pure, delicate, polished mirror facing the Abha Kingdom so that the images of the Supreme Concourse may be reflected in it. This is the meaning of the verse in the Torah "Let us create man in our image, after our likeness." The repetition of the vision indicates that the seeing will be both spiritual and physical.  AB01212


The time for dream interpretation has come - both in wakefulness and in dreams there is witnessing and meeting the Beloved and Desired One. With complete attention, pure intention, delicacy of heart and joy of soul, lay your head upon the pillow and the mysteries of the Kingdom will be unveiled - that is, for that honored one. But if he witnesses with insight while awake that too is permitted, and if sleep becomes a dream, a strange secret will become manifest.  AB05166

The time for the interpretation of the dream has not yet come. Reflect and it will become clear and evident   AB05747

As for the true dream which thou didst behold, its interpretation is this: those very high steps represent lofty spiritual stations and degrees of ascent to the divine heights. This is a true dream and its occurrence is certain. As for the mysterious call "We make no distinction between any of them," it points to the unity of the friends and oneness of the loved ones. It is hoped that in the realm of possibility, this unity of heart and soul will become manifest and evident like the shining moon. AB07602

When thou hast attained to this vision, thou wilt conform all thy movements and rest to the Supreme Concourse  AB08765

I became known and revealed myself to thee in the world of vision and instructed thee in the search of Truth.  AB09324

You had asked for the interpretation of your dream. This was not a dream, but rather a spiritual unveiling and divine vision.  AB05122

The dream signifies that he became detached from the physical world, spread spiritual wings and traveled through spiritual realms.  AB00576

Whatever you beheld in the realm of dreams, put that into practice. God willing, complete healing will be achieved, for what you witnessed as issuing from the pure mouth is assuredly the best remedy.  AB09916

And those tablets which were seen in the dream with water dripping from them represent the divine teachings from which the water of life drips.  AB05593

That which was observed in the dream has come to pass, and it is indeed a manifest truth. This is evidence of God's gifts and bounties bestowed upon you, that you beheld yourself attaining His presence in a spacious place containing many chambers. From time immemorial and unto eternity, the Truth has been and ever shall be in the most exalted and expansive station, and likewise His loved ones--those souls who are sanctified from the doubts and allusions of the veiled ones. Though outwardly they may be seen in prison, in reality they dwell in the highest chambers of paradise, as hath been revealed in the Tablets. When you found yourself in that praiseworthy station, it behooveth you to thank God, your Lord, for having made you among those who circle round Him and attain His presence. This is the supreme bounty, that before the outward meeting, He hath inwardly reckoned you among those near to Him and who have attained His presence.  BH00737

As for the verses revealed in the dream world, the first line is "Open your eyes, raise up the banner" and in the third verse the second line is "The condition of faith is 'God doeth whatsoever He willeth.'"  AB03685

And concerning thy question about the dream - none hath the right to test God. We shall interpret it for thee as a bounty from Us, and shall reveal unto thee what We showed thee. Be thou assured and be of those who render thanks.   BH10783

The interpretation of the dream is that the Cause of God will achieve the utmost exaltation in Iran, especially in Iraq in places connected to them. And seeing the prayer beads indicates that truly these prayer beads were from me.   AB01307

Regarding the dream whose interpretation you requested - its interpretation is this: entering the sea naked and bare indicates that, God willing, the reality of God's Cause will become manifest and evident without any veil or covering  AB01830

The interpretation of the dream is this: that certain souls will strive to extinguish the Fire of God that has been kindled, but through their efforts the flame will grow mightier and the penetrating power of the Word of God will increase.  AB09387


Concerning the appearance of a paper in thy dream, before thine eyes, which thou wast unable to read: Thou shalt read it through the permission of God and thou shalt comprehend its meanings. It is a diary of the Word of God and the divine mysteries.  AB01355

Regarding the dream in Mansoura that you wrote about, its interpretation should be made by the dear one of Egypt. This servant is like Jacob in separation, whose eyes turned white with grief, and he was in silent sorrow - how can I interpret, explain and expound?  AB00561

This vision showeth that thou, O confirmed and attracted one, by the breezes of God will soon be acquainted with the ancient mysteries, for the Manifest Light will appear to thee. The vision also signifieth that a Mashrak-el-Azcar will soon be established in America.   AB00438

"As to the horse once belonging to your son, of which she spoke: Horse in the dream means a wish. It shows that your daughter has fulfilled her wish and her desire, and that shows the loftiness of her station. The wish is one in which your son shared, but she attained to it."  ABU1018

As for your dream about Ya'qub - "I want Ya'qub for Ya'qub" - its interpretation is that, God willing, a day will come when I will find you like Elijah, a herald to the Kingdom of God. As for the geometry of eight, its interpretation is that eight is under the shadow of nine.   AB04395

As to the interpretation of the vision, it is thus: Ascent from earth to heaven indicateth growth in the love of God and development in the knowledge of God. The building in front of which thou didst stand is an edifice of divine edifices, a station of the spiritual stations.   AB02953

As for what you asked about Abraham's vision, peace be upon him, of the kingdom of the heavens, and how the Imam removed the veil from the eye of the beholder of the kingdom of the heavens and earth - this is truth, for the heavens are folded in His right hand and the earth entirely in His grasp, and from this matter there is no escape.   BB00183

That fruit-laden garden is the Abha Paradise, and those people who were gathered together in unity and equality are the people of Baha and all the denizens of the Kingdom, awaiting the rising of the sun - that is, the dawning of the Sun of Truth - so that they might be stirred to motion and vibration and engage in service to the Kingdom.  AB09888

Regarding the dream you wrote about, it was truly among truthful visions, as the fragrances of love were wafted from it. This indicates that through divine grace and infinite mercy, bounty and blessing shall be bestowed, and you shall fulfill the rights that were due upon your father's property - may the glory and mercy of God rest upon him.   BH00492

As for the dream you saw, in which it was said "Yes, you will become Adam" - this means you will become a perfect person. The pen case with a sheet of paper indicates that you will become a cause for the diffusion of the divine fragrances. Therefore the word "He" was written on the paper, meaning that the mysteries of the Divine Identity will be revealed.  AB12322



As to thy vision, it is reality itself (it is what hath occurred). Whatever thou hast seen in the realm of vision is interpreted in the contraries and opposites, for laughter in the world of vision is weeping, and weeping, joy and happiness; death is longevity, and dangers, in certain cases, safety itself. Harm (in this wise) is helpfulness, and friendship, enmity and hatred.  AB02398

Your dream was most blessed, for clear water and fish are most auspicious in the realm of dreams. Pure water - and from water all things live - is the cause of life for all creatures, and it is said that fish in dreams signify the attainment of desires. The voice which you heard from that pure water was a spiritual call, and praise be to God, it was realized in the visible world.  AB00262

The dream thou hadst seen hath this interpretation: The rising of the brilliant star is the appearance of the Blessed Beauty, and the dispersal of the clouds into variegated fish means that clouds which prevent the sun from appearing are the ancient superstitions and beliefs which have been transformed into correct truths, and these correct beliefs are the fish of the sea of truth.   AB06136

As regards the interpretation of Jinab-i Aqa Ibrahim's dream of 'two blistered hands': by this is meant that the troubled and ailing heart, God willing, will be illumined and cheered with the supreme divine light, and even as the generous hand of the One Who conversed with God (Moses) it shall be 'white to all beholders.' And 'Draw Thy hand from Thy bosom, white to all beholders' will be fulfilled.  AB05365

"As for your dream, the meaning of the first command 'wash and then touch' is that you must wash yourself in the spring of Job, and in the Qur'an it says 'Here is a cool spring for washing and drinking,' meaning free yourself from the human world and through ablution in the spring of eternal life become pure and cleansed of all defilements. Then put your hand to the work of true alchemy and engage with the divine elixir."  AB02659

As for that mighty solar orb which thou didst behold in thy dream, that was the Promised One, and its spreading rays were His bounties, and the translucent surface of the mass of water signifieth hearts that are undefiled and pure, while the surging waves denote the great excitement of those hearts and the fact that they were shaken and deeply moved, that is, the waves are the stirrings of the spirit and holy intimations of the soul.  AB01895

Those fishes which thou hast seen in the vision are the souls who are swimming in the sea of this nether world. God willing, thou wilt bring them out of the nether world, with the net of the love of God, into the immensity of the Kingdom. Those brilliant stars which thou hast beheld are the children of the Kingdom. That brilliant crescent is the Cause of God. The appearance of His Highness Christ and His white robe and resplendent light in His blessed face is the proof of the power and the promulgation of the Word of God in America.   AB00658

As to thy vision, its interpretation is that the tree is the Blessed Tree, the Tree of Life, and the serpent coiled around it is the Covenant-breaker and chief of the hypocrites. This is of no consequence, for it preventeth the weak from drawing nigh unto the Blessed Tree, and this serpent shall be made as naught and shall become the cause of growth and development. The mountain whereon thou didst see the lion seated is Mount Sinai, the scene of divine revelation, the station of lights, and the lion seated thereon is the Lion of the Covenant.  AB03018

His white vestment is the garment of the Manifestation and [His] brilliant color. Regarding the gems which appeared on His breast, they are peerless pearls of wisdom which shine unto the horizons with a godlike fame. As to His shining face, verily it hath illumined the earth and dispersed the darkness from the contingent world. Regarding thine entrance with thy friend into the gallery lighted with lamps, know thou that gallery is the world of humanity and the lamps His wonderful teaching, His all-wisdom, His perfect bounty and His clear manifestation.   AB01087

The interpretation of the dream which thou didst have is this: That mighty tree is the Blessed Tree and the goodly Tree which has its roots in the earth and its branches in heaven. That frightful creature is one who raised a loud cry and clamor and outwardly clung to the Blessed Tree. That brave lion is the Lion of the Covenant who with one movement caused that creature filled with hatred to fall to the ground, and the Blessed Tree remained established in its place. That woman who was above the tree is the Law of God, and the rooster is the Divine Herald, indicating that the Cause of God will reach the utmost degree of aspiration.   AB06682

As for what thou didst behold in thy dream, We beseech the Exalted One to make it a blessing unto thee and unto His friends and loved ones. That the person mentioned was in a carriage with royal majesty and passed before thee, and afterward thou didst meet him with different attire, namely with a turban - there is no doubt that while majesty and royal grandeur are now present and manifest, this change portendeth a transformation of circumstances and an alteration of glory and might. We decree at this time his descent from the first station, that thereby God's servants and creatures might find rest. This is what can be understood from the dream, and hidden knowledge hath thus decreed.  BH11609





This dream is true.  AB08301

The dream you had was surely a good one.  AB09360

The dream you saw is a remedy for every ailing sufferer  AB03685

The meaning of the dream I dreamt is now clear and evident.   ABU3606

Thou hadst a true dream wherein thou didst behold 'Abdu'l-Baha  AB10151

What you heard in the world of dreams was addressed to certain Iranians  AB12615

Both dreams are evidence that thou art regarded with the glance of favor  AB12685


This was not a dream, but rather a spiritual unveiling and divine vision.  AB05122

The dream you saw indicates that you will undertake new seed-sowing and fresh teaching work   AB06262

Thank God that in the world of vision thou art witnessing great signs.  AB01045


The vision (or dream) that the maidservant of God, Wilhelmina Logie, has seen corresponds to reality. It is a true vision.  AB10951

Give thanks unto God, thy Lord, for having enabled thee to meet Him both in sleep and in wakefulness, for He is verily the Most Merciful of the merciful. And that which thou didst drink from My hand is the Kawthar of inner meanings wherewith God hath, as a token of His grace, given thee to drink, and He is verily the Most Generous of the generous. Rejoice within thyself for having shown thee in thy dream My hallowed, mighty and resplendent Beauty, even as We showed thee when We were in Iraq, and from My mouth there flowed the Salsabil of thy Lord's wisdom, the Mighty, the Powerful. Be thou steadfast in the Cause, then stand firm in His love, and He shall suffice thee against all the worlds. BH06932

tell him that this dream which you saw is evidence that the red cotton is, God willing, martyrdom in the most glorious path  AB02670


We beseech Him, exalted be He, to show thee what thou didst behold in thy dream. He, verily, is the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH05811

Although this victory was given as glad tidings in the world of dreams, yet when it was delayed, some were overcome with doubt   AB04564

And those tablets which were seen in the dream with water dripping from them represent the divine teachings from which the water of life drips.  AB05593

The passages about water coming to the house in dreams representing new life, and the second dream indicating the influence of the Word of God.  AB08886

That recent dream where the Blessed Beauty (may the spirit of the worlds be sacrificed for Him) embraced you and showed kindness is most blessed   AB11699

The dream which thou didst see is evidence that through the assistance and favor of the Abha Beauty thou wilt be confirmed in servitude at the Divine Threshold  AB07430

As regards thy vision, it signifieth that the light of the Kingdom of God shall rise above the horizon of that region with the utmost brilliancy and splendour   AB01816

Mrs. Lina Pontner met me in a true vision. What she saw in her dream was reality itself. She must be very pleased and happy so that this vision may be repeated.  AB12591



You had related three dreams, for which I will write a brief interpretation as there is no time for detail. AB00604

Especially since you beheld such a vision, cast off the coarse garment and attained the honor of His presence, receiving sudden healing. Know with certainty that the slap in the dream indicates the utmost love.  AB04674

Thank God for meeting me in your dream as is His right, for this indicates the purity of your inner being, the sincerity of your intention, and your intense longing for the Kingdom of God.   AB05946

"From this dream that you have seen, this is evident, and soon the mysteries of the interpretation of this dream will become manifest and evident in the realm of grandeur and the highest horizon to the nearest horizon"  AB05508

Praise be to God, in the world of dreams you saw rays of light dawning from heaven and Christ pointing with His finger. Know that that light is the dawning of the Sun of Truth and the rays shining from the Abha Beauty.  AB12177

As for the dream thou saw - it is exactly as thou saw, and verily Our hosts shall be victorious. Assuredly Ibn-i-Abhar will triumph over those two abortive ones, who are souls that rise up to oppose and dispute the truth.  AB02907


That which you saw in your dream was mentioned in the presence. As for what you mentioned about seeing in heaven flowers, blossoms and stars - these indicate the manifestations of your Lord's favors and the expressions of His power.  BH01932

The interpretation of the dream is that certain souls will attempt to extinguish the Fire of God which is kindled, but through their striving and effort the flame will become mightier and the penetrating power of the Word of God will increase.  AB09387

Your second dream indicates that the penetration of the Word of God will become intense in Iran, nay rather in all the horizons. And that elderly person is the country of Iran, and the answer to his petition is divine confirmations and assistance.  AB08886


Abdu'l-Baha one day humorously said to the Haji, I had a dream and you must interpret it for me. ... Last night the Ancient Beauty appeared in my dream and said, 'I have guests that have never been here before. I want you to receive them most befittingly.' I related Baha'u'llah's command to the Greatest Holy Leaf. Together, we went to the storage [area] and retrieved the set of fine china that the Khal's son (that is, the honored Hají Mírza Muhammad-`Alíy-i-Afnan) had sent from China and got it ready." After jesting with the Hají some more, `Abdu'l-Baha explained the meaning of the vision: "The standard of the Faith has been raised in America. A number in that country have embraced the Faith and will come here soon for pilgrimage to the Sacred Shrine of Baha'u'llah. These friends have never outwardly been here and will now come and share in this blessing." ABU3690


This dream is very good - be assured. Attaining the presence of His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him) is evidence of receiving bounties from the Supreme Lord and attaining the greatest gift and mightiest favor. And likewise for the rest of the dream.  AB09679

As for the dreams you saw: Being present in the prayer place indicates entry into the Kingdom of God; sitting indicates steadfastness; drinking milk symbolizes knowledge and wisdom; eating fruits represents discovering questions of truth; and the spring of Tasnim is eternal life.   AB00407

Last night in a dream I witnessed the arrival of a ship at 'Akka. As it dropped anchor, I saw a number of birds in the shape of grenades fly up from the ship and over the city. They soared from one part of town to another, yet the grenades did not detonate, and the birds returned to the ship.  ABU3141

As for what thou didst behold in thy dream, give thanks unto God for having revealed Himself unto thee, unveiled to thee His beauty and admitted thee into the pavilion of His glory. Then know thou that what thou didst see is truth, there is no doubt therein, and the matter is as thou didst see   BH01115

O thou whom God hath shown in true visions that which will make his feet firm upon the Straight Path!... Therefore thank God for showing thee the vision, wherein is the greatest wealth [abundance] for a man. By thy life! Verily he is in what God hath shown thee... That vision was a true vision.   AB00782

O Shoghi, this dream of yours is very good. Rest assured that attaining the presence of His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) is evidence of receiving bounties from the Supreme Lord and attaining the greatest gift and most mighty favor. Likewise for the rest of the dream.  AB09679

All that the disciples observed of the appearance of Moses and Elias with Christ on the mountaintop, and the servant's vision of the fiery horses, as well as Peter's vision of the angels of heaven - all these were spiritual discoveries and luminous realities, not physical realities, even in their most subtle form.  AB03919

The dream they saw was a true dream, and the proof is that they were naked, meaning free from all garments until they don the shirt of sanctification, and they were in the state of ihram so they might become afflicted with every sinner's affliction...the interpretation of this dream will become evident and manifest.  AB02005

I read the dream - it is well translated. Publish it. This dream indicates that Mrs. Parsons, through divine aid and grace, will attain a state that reveals the divine world, and with the eye of insight will observe those souls who have passed from this world to the next, and spiritual sensations will be produced for her with utmost power.  AB01683

As for the matter of that person's dream, these words issued from the Source of Command: We are commanded to look to the outward, not the inward. God willing this dream is true, and if, God forbid, it be mixed with fancy, We decree for him what We decreed for him who was in prison when he said 'The matter about which ye inquired is decreed.'  BH01782

"One night she had a dream which banished sleep for her and left her anxious and perplexed. In the morning she was so tearful and fearful and so full of concern that I was deeply affected. Though I tried to console her it was not until news of your safety was received and the letter arrived indicating your health and comfort that she was finally reassured."  AB03782

That which that beloved one observed and mentioned in the dream indicates the exaltation of the religion of God and His Cause among the servants. As for the weeping, it is joy - this is what the servant heard from the tongue of his Lord. They stated that whatsoever came to pass and was revealed, all was and is evidence of loftiness, elevation, exaltation and steadfastness.   BH01088

Regarding the dream you saw - that large portico filled with books and pictures is the city of Saint Augustine, and that person who entered the portico is 'Abdu'l-Baha. This indicates that the Cause of God will progress in that city. Ask God that one of those two women may be Lua. Those signs of favor that appeared from that majestic and dignified person of utmost beauty and grace indicate that you will progress in service to the Cause of God. In the world of dreams this was a glad tiding.  AB08178

O thou maid-servant of God! Blessed art thou, for the Temple of the Covenant (Abdul-Baha) hath become manifest to thee in a dream with incomparable humility and submission toward God, and that thou hast beheld that countenance overflowing with yearning, attraction and love toward the Beauty of the Almighty. Ere long thou shalt witness a great effect through this observation, whereby the spirit of life will become manifest in thee, which is now flowing in the veins of the contingent beings.   AB02143

Regarding the dream you had where your brother appeared in orderly attire - clothing is the adornment of man, and that was the gift of the All-Merciful. The package he held in his hand represented his good deeds, and his careful observation was meant to make you understand: "See what bounty I have attained! Praise be to God, I am whole and sound, wearing the garment of righteousness, holding the package of deeds in my hand, and I am alive, not dead. Observe carefully - I am eternal, not transient. Take note!"  AB00224

Consider how thy dream exactly corresponds with reality, for in the summer season, when the heat of the Sun of Truth is at its greatest intensity, it causes thee to return to childhood - that is, to become a child of the Kingdom. That fruit-laden garden is the Abha Paradise, and those people who were gathered together in unity and equality are the people of Baha and all the denizens of the Kingdom, awaiting the rising of the sun - that is, the dawning of the Sun of Truth - so that they might be stirred to motion and vibration and engage in service to the Kingdom.  AB09888

The detailed dream was observed, but due to numerous occupations we are compelled to give a brief interpretation. However this brevity is better than a thousand elaborations...This is the interpretation of your dream in brief - that it indicates the exaltation of the Word of God and manifestation of the signs of God and your special confirmation. As for the second dream, its interpretation also matches the first dream in summary and indicates that the respected person will become the cause of establishing and consolidating the divine foundation in the human world.  AB00906

"The cause of her surprise is this-that you are crying; your daughter would say: 'I have a good mother. She must be happy. Why does she cry? I am surprised.' The cause of her surprise is the thought that you do not recognize her. She belongs to a realm in which everything becomes mature, and she expected you to see her in the state of perfection in which she manifested herself to you; but the fact that you looked at her in this way, and that now you are crying-is a proof of your not having recognized her. For had you recognized her in the dream, you would not be crying now."  ABU1018

In His childhood, at the age of five or six, the Blessed Beauty had a dream which He related to His father. His father summoned one of the dream interpreters and astrologers and asked for the dream's interpretation. The blessed dream was this: In the dream, He was in a garden when He observed enormous birds swooping down upon His blessed head from all directions, though they could not harm Him. Then He went to the sea and began to swim. Both the birds of the air and the fish of the sea all rushed toward His blessed head, but they could not harm Him. The interpreter drew up what he called a horoscope and said, This dream indicates that this child will be the source of a mighty Cause, and that Cause will be related to reason and thought, for the head is the center of reason and thought. Therefore, all the leaders and great ones of the world will rush upon this child like the birds of the air and the fish of the sea, but they will do Him no harm. He will triumph over all, and all will become submissive before Him, and their impotence will become manifest.  ABU0123


