Sensible realities are perceived by every moving creature, but intelligible realities are unveiled and observed by the seeing knower.   AB03468

Thus these realities are not evident unto the eyes. However, the reality of perception doth witness them. But outer sight will remain veiled and deprived.  AB08921

There are three kinds of light... The third light is the light of the intellect. This has three functions. It is the manifestor, the seer and the comprehendor of phenomena.   ABU2757

Perceptible realities can be explained. But the intellectual realities cannot be explained by or through words. You may try to explain by words... This is the intellectual reality and is not perceptible by the senses.   ABU1881

Existence is of two kinds: intelligible existence and concrete existence. Created things had intelligible existence before their concrete existence, meaning they were known to God, then they attained concrete existence, meaning they became realized externally. Sight has no connection to intelligible existence, it has connection to concrete existence. That is, in the world of existence, sight cannot connect with a non-existent thing - it must have external existence for sight to connect with it. Before concrete existence, meaning realization externally, the world of creation had no essential existence for sight to connect with it. The name "All-Seeing" is different from the name "All-Knowing." Created things were known to God, but the name "All-Seeing" had no connection to the realities of things. When they became realized in the world of existence, the name "All-Seeing" connected with them. This matter is very subtle - consider it carefully. As an example: The conceptual forms that are within your comprehension - your sight has no connection to them. When those conceptual forms become realized externally, your sight connects with them.  AB00954

The nature of the world to come is intelligible, not sensible, and its relationship and analogy is the analogy of this world in relation to the world of the womb. Is it possible to understand the faculties of hearing and sight, of cognition and apprehension in the womb, even in imagination? Nay, by God!  AB01459

Know that created things are of two kinds: material and spiritual, sensible and intelligible. That is, some are perceptible to the senses while others are only perceived by the mind. Sensible realities are those which are perceived by the five outer senses: so, for example, those outward things which the eye sees are called sensible. Intelligible realities are those which have no outward existence but are perceived by the mind.  AB01360

"Sensible beings, for instance, include minerals, plants, and animals: those things which can be perceived with the physical senses; in other words, they can be seen with the eyes, heard with the ears, and smelled, touched, or tasted. All such things are subject to change. But those things perceptible to the intellect cannot be detected with these physical faculties. For example, knowledge and understanding are intelligible realities."  ABU0184

Know thou that human perceptions are resolved into the intelligible and the sensible. The sensible, being that which is familiar and comprehensible, requireth no interpretation or allusion, but rather explanation and clarification. The intelligible, however, consisteth of spiritual realities that are intelligible rather than sensible--abstract, sanctified, and holy--having no outward forms whereby their expression might be readily achieved without metaphor and allusion.  AB00258

For otherwise, egress and regress, descent and inherence are characteristics of bodies and not of spirits--that is, egress and inherence pertain only to sensible realities, not to intelligible subtleties; and intelligible realities, such as reason, love, knowledge, imagination and thought, do not enter, exit or inhere, but rather denote relationships. For example, knowledge, which is a form acquired by the mind, is an intelligible thing, and to speak of entering into the mind or exiting from it is absurd. Rather, it is a relationship of acquisition, even as images are reflected in a mirror.   AB01290

At most, it is possible to give hints, since in this world if thou desirest to describe an intelligible reality, thou art obliged to express it by means of sensible images. For instance, knowledge is an intelligible reality, and if thou desirest to explain it, thou might describe it as a sea. The state of that intelligible reality which compriseth knowledge hath become described through a sensible image which is the sea. This description is a hint, a symbol, a metaphor, an allusion. By this means, the listener is able to obtain a sense of that intelligible reality; otherwise, it is never manifested and revealed in the sensible world.  AB02660

Those external beings which have objective existence and are sensible realities can be explained in the world of the senses, such as the earth, heaven, mountain, desert, plain, sea and other existing things, for these are sensible realities. But rational realities such as the intellect, the soul, love, sorrow, joy and the five inner faculties - if you wish to explain these you are compelled to cast them into sensible forms before explaining them. For example, sorrow and grief, which are rational realities, you express through constriction, saying My heart is constricted, whereas the heart remains in its original state, neither constricted nor expanded. But sorrow is a spiritual condition, and when you wish to express it you are compelled to make a comparison with sensible things.  AB00262

Human knowledge is of two kinds. One is the knowledge acquired through the senses. That which the eye, the ear, or the senses of smell, taste, or touch can perceive is called sensible. For example, the sun is sensible, as it can be seen. Likewise, sounds are sensible, as the ear can hear them; odours, as they can be inhaled and perceived by the sense of smell; foods, as the palate can perceive their sweetness, sourness, bitterness, or saltiness; heat and cold, as the sense of touch can perceive them. These are called sensible realities. The other kind of human knowledge is that of intelligible things; that is, it consists of intelligible realities which have no outward form or place and which are not sensible. For example, the power of the mind is not sensible, nor are any of the human attributes: These are intelligible realities. Love, likewise, is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. For the ear does not hear these realities, the eye does not see them, the smell does not sense them, the taste does not detect them, the touch does not perceive them.  AB00259
