
all beings, whether universal or particular, are mutually connected in accordance with God's consummate wisdom and mutually influence one another. Were it not so, the all-embracing organization and universal arrangement of existence would become disordered and disrupted.  AB00475

The words of the astrologers are for the most part doubtful and unreliable. But the whole of creation is interrelated like the different parts of the human body which have a complete affinity from the toenail to the hair on the head. Every part is perfectly connected with the other. Similarly, the whole of creation forms a chain composed, as it were, of many links connected with each other. It is therefore obvious that they all greatly influence each other and are part of organized, regular cycles. ABU3146

These are spiritual truths relating to the spiritual world. In like manner, from these spiritual realities infer truths about the material world. For physical things are signs and imprints of spiritual things; every lower thing is an image and pattern of a higher thing. Nay, earthly and heavenly, material and spiritual, accidental and essential, particular and universal, foundation and structure, appearance and reality and the essence of all things, both inward and outward--all of these are connected one with another and are interrelated in such a manner that we find that drops are patterned after seas, and that atoms are structured after suns in proportion to their capacities and potentialities.  AB00023


this endless universe is like the human body and that all its parts are connected one with another and are linked together in the utmost perfection. That is, in the same way that the parts, members and organs of the human body are interconnected, and that they mutually assist, reinforce and influence each other, so too are the parts and members of this endless universe connected with, and spiritually and materially influenced by, one another.  AB00475

Liken the world of existence to the temple of man. All the limbs and organs of the human body assist each other, therefore life continues. When, in this wonderful organism, there is a disconnection, life is changed into death and the parts of the body disintegrate. Likewise, among the parts of existence, there is a wonderful connection and interchange of forces, which is the cause of the life of the world and the continuation of these countless phenomena.  AB00362

We compare the body of the universe with the body of man. The members of the body of man are closely connected; so, also, are the parts of the great universe. In the body of man, all the members and parts are interdependent; for example, the heart feels the things seen by the eye; the ear hears, and the soul is thereby moved; the nostrils inhale a sweet odor, and the whole body is delighted. This is a proof that all the parts of the body of man are interrelated.  ABU1589


These kingdom form an endless chain of existence, and one is merged imperceptibly into the other. Yet neither is aware that the other exists... These chains form an endless movement of life. Can man imagine that the endless chain is broken with him?  ABU1868

All are connected by the bond of existence. What greater bond is there than this? Furthermore, none of these can continue to exist independently of the other; for interrelation and solidarity make their existence possible. For example, from the plant a certain element is exhaled which gives life to the animal. We call this the fiery element and you call it oxygen. And from animated beings a certain watery element is given, which you call hydrogen, and that promotes plant life and its growth and evolution. So there is a connection, and the growth and evolution of each are dependent and contingent upon the other. So are all the other beings (connected) making the world of existence as one person - a great person. Just as the members and parts of man co-operate and work together, likewise the parts and members of the world co-operate with each other and are interdependent. This chain of interrelation is continuous throughout all existence. Not a single one of the parts of the chain can be loosened; if it were loosened the organization of existence would be faulty. ABU2014


For the transferences, the compositions, the gatherings and scatterings of elements and of constituent parts and substances proceed in a chain that is mighty and without flaw. Observe the effective universal laws and see to what a degree they are solidly established, secure, and strong. And just as the composition, the formation, and growth and development of the physical body have come about by degrees, so too must its decomposition and dispersal be gradual. If the disintegration be rapid, this will cause an overleaping and a slackening in the chain of transferences, and this discontinuity will impair the universal relationships within the chain of created things.  AB00273

For example, this elemental human body hath come forth from the mineral, the vegetable, and the animal worlds, and after its death will be entirely changed into microscopic animal organisms; and according to the divine order and the driving forces of nature, these minute creatures will have an effect on the life of the universe, and will pass into other forms.  AB00273


Consider minerals that are but one of the effulgent rays of creation and constitute the lowest level of this world. No matter how they are perfected, they can never hope to attain unto the station of vegetables. And similarly, vegetables can never develop senses, nor can animals ever aspire to gain rational faculties and command exhibited by men. All the attributes of minerals are limited to the world of minerals, and the vegetables are bounded by their own limitations, as are the animals. They are all confined within the scope of their category of existence. Therefore, creation is hierarchical, and each level is incapable of understanding the higher realm.   ABU0398

This single primordial element has had its transformations through these infinite forms and images... Therefore the great and divine philosophers have had an epigram as follows: "All things are involves in all things".  ABU0055


Therefore, every thing is connected to every other thing. Every atom undergoes limitless transitions, and with each transition a different characteristic is manifested until all the perfections become gathered together.   ABU0078



The lights of His qualities are manifest or reflected in the mirrors of the hearts of His Holy Manifestations. It means the transference or transformation of created bodies into infinite forms of creation. Every indivisible electron is transformed into all the forms of creatures and everything travels or moves in everything.   ABU3242


For all beings are linked together like a chain; and mutual aid, assistance, and interaction are among their intrinsic properties and are the cause of their formation, development, and growth. It is established through numerous proofs and arguments that every single thing has an effect and influence upon every other, either independently or through a causal chain.  AB00278

Likewise, observe factories and workshops, where all the machinery is connected to one another with interaction between them, yet connected to a general power which is the mover and axis of these interactions, namely steam power. Thus it becomes clear that the interaction between created things, the cooperation and mutual assistance between elements, and the composition and analysis between beings are all connected to a moving power which is the axis and mover of creation.  ABU1435

Likewise, observe factories and workshops where all the machinery is connected to each other with interaction between them, yet all is connected to a general force which is the mover and axis of these interactions, and that is the power of steam. Thus it becomes evident that the interaction between created things, the cooperation and mutual assistance between elements, and the composition and analysis among beings are all connected to a moving force which is the axis and mover of creation.  ABU1362

Herein lies the meaning of the philosophic epigram: 'All things are involved in all things.' In this manner all things march upward and unlimited progress is obtained. For example: the power of life innate in the soil is appropriated by the seeds and the growth of grass is made possible; in turn the virtue augmentative talent in the grass is absorbed by the animal. Although outwardly the form of grass is lost yet it has gone into the make-up of a higher life, thus the death of one confers life upon another.   ABU0371

For example the atoms which are a part of this flower will some day appear in other flowers: then they may appear in the animal kingdom and return again to the vegetable life. Therefore the primordial atoms of this flower may have gone through many changes â€" now it is a flower and later on it may be an animal. In short it goes through the make-up of infinite forms. And in each form it is adorned with a special virtue. Consequently there is a philosophical statement that "all things are involved in all things."  ABU0234

Now I shall speak of the oneness of existence. It is evident that all beings are composed of single elements, and through the gathering of these single elements a distinct organism emerges. For example, man is created by the gathering of single elements, yet these elements do not remain in the same state. The elements that comprise man decompose, later becoming parts of other beings -- thus, a particle that was once part of a flower may become part of an animal, or part of a human being, or part of a tree, or part of a stone. Therefore, these single elements continually transfer from one being to another.  ABU0151

Therefore every individual element journeyeth through all created things. For example, those elements which are now in man were once in the mineral kingdom, progressing through infinite forms in the mineral ranks, possessing perfections in each form, and likewise progressing through infinite forms in the animal and human kingdoms. And since the forms of created things are infinite, every individual element therefore progresseth through infinite forms, acquiring perfections in each form. Thus all created things exist in all created things. Consider what unity this is, that every particle of creation compriseth all creation.  ABU0085


All created things are interconnected through essential relationships which are a divine trust.  AB02512

No atom can succeed without help and assistance. Everything in this world depends upon the assistance of others.   ABU2269

All created things are interlinked in a chain leading to spirituality and ultimately ending in abstract realities.  ABU2460

We are the waves of one sea and the drops of one river. We have received the radiance of one sun and have grown through the sprinklings of one cloud.   AB06415

For every part of the universe is connected with every other part by ties that are very powerful and admit of no imbalance, nor any slackening whatever.  AB01624

All the parts and kinds and species of the creational Life are interrelated together. There is an invisible chain binding all into one mass of homogeneity.  ABU1154

for the chains of existence contain countless links, each connected with the other. This connection is the cause of the appearance of the invisible powers of the world of the visible.  AB00764

divine destinies are the strong and true relationships between all parts of creation. Every matter is connected to all matters, and every affair has necessary relationships with all affairs   AB05972

Events like these happen because of the connection between the parts of the universe, for every small part has connection with every great part, and what affects one affects the other or all others.  ABU2116

For the reality of things is hidden in the Treasuries of the kingdom and, as soon as it is bodied forth upon this plane of nether world, the emblems (symbols) and realities of the contingent beings become apparent.  ABU2887


All things are connected in the universe and operate according to divine wisdom. When great events unfold, they are part of this interconnected system, guided by God's will. Even seemingly small occurrences are part of this divine plan.   ABU2400


This motion and renewal of beings gives rise to the orderly arrangement and interconnectedness of all things, and were it not for these passages across the vegetable, animal, and human realms, the chain of being would be broken and the innate order of nature would be disrupted.  AB01283

God's creation is perfect. Every part of the universe has its connection with every other part, according to a Divine system. All the created beings are connected with each other, and all occurrences and events are indicative of the requirements of this connection and interrelation.  ABU1589


from the breath of the animals a watery element, called hydrogen, and carbon is exhaled and this is the life principle of the vegetable kingdom. From the vegetable kingdom and the trees, a fiery element, called oxygen, is emitted and this becomes the cause of the maintenance of the life of the animal kingdom. In such a manner, mutual helpfulness and co-operation is realized continually between all the existent beings.  AB00405


since all things, all beings that are members of this great body of the world of existence, are all interconnected - meaning each being is a member or part of that great body - therefore from any part, due to this connection, the realities of other parts can be discovered. Its analogy is the human body - imagine the world of possibility as a human body whose parts, members, elements and faculties are all interconnected with each other, having perfect connection.   AB00431

When we pounder deeply upon the connection and interdependence of beings, we clearly realize that the life of every being draws benefit and sustenance from all the other innumerable existences. This mutual helpfulness is realized either directly or through mediation, and if for the twinkling of an eye, this confirmation and assistance does not descend upon the living being, that one will become non-existent, for all the existing things are linked together and draw help from each other.  AB00362

Were one to observe with an eye that discovereth the realities of all things, it would become clear that the greatest relationship that bindeth the world of being together lieth in the range of created things themselves, and that co-operation, mutual aid and reciprocity are essential characteristics in the unified body of the world of being, inasmuch as all created things are closely related together and each is influenced by the other or deriveth benefit therefrom, either directly or indirectly.  AB00446

For example, in the human world, between all parts of the human body there are both spiritual and outward connections that are clear and evident. For instance, between the mind and human organs there is a spiritual connection, while between the members, such as the eye, ear, hand, and foot, there is a clear connection. In brief, interaction exists and mutual cooperation and assistance are evident, but all of these are connected to the spiritual power of the human soul, which is the axis and mover of this interaction.  ABU1435

The world of existence is like the human form - all its members and parts, even to the finest and most delicate veins and nerves, must assist one another so that the collective body may attain health, well-being, comfort and life. Observe how throughout all creation these divine connections, this universal order and divine law are in operation. Consider the plant, which releases an element that gives life to animals, while animals provide an element that causes the growth and development of plants. Thus, cooperation and mutual assistance are evident and manifest among all created things.  AB03000



Everything travels or moves in everything   ABU3242

The world is the world of divine unity, and all are beheld on one plane.  BH06553



that thou mayest behold with both outer and inner vision how each and every thing containeth the meaning of all things  AB08269

For in all physical respects, and where the animal spirit is concerned, the selfsame feelings are shared by animal and man.  AB00890

All the saplings of the world have appeared from one Tree, and all the drops from one Ocean, and all beings owe their existence to one Being.  BH11459

For this association of the part with the whole endows him with the whole, and this union of the particular with the universal makes him all-in-all.   AB07148

Everything is interlinked. A link cannot be broken without affecting that natural order. Everything that happens is in conformity with this order and is based on consummate wisdom.  ABU2457

Know that a mighty connection exists between the soul of man and the realities of all created things...Therefore, a spiritual connection exists between the thought of man and that outward form.  ABU2466

Every edifice is made of many different stones, yet each depends on the other to such an extent that if one were displaced the whole building would suffer; if one is faulty the structure is imperfect.  ABU0491



Taking the material ocean as an illustration, 'Abdu'l-Baha said, The atoms composing an ocean are, in appearance the ocean, but the identity of the atoms remains. So it is with our individuality in the ocean of life, it remains.   ABU3516


The world of existence is like the human form - all its members and parts, even to the finest and most delicate veins and nerves, must assist one another so that the collective body may attain health, well-being, comfort and life.  AB03000

Fundamentally all existing things pass through the same degrees and phases of development, and any given phenomenon embodies all others. An ancient statement of the Arabian philosophers declares that all things are involved in all things.   ABU0008


It is obvious that all created things are connected one to another by a linkage complete and perfect, even, for example, as are the members of the human body. Note how all the members and component parts of the human body are connected one to another. In the same way, all the members of this endless universe are linked one to another.   AB00103


What I discussed this morning was evident as the sun. That was the oneness of the existence of phenomena. But the first remarks were difficult of understanding, and most of the people did not understand what I was talking about, but some day I will make it clear to you. If the people should understand this aright, they would never war, they would never fight.   ABU1909

In truth, there exists a wondrous connection between the component parts of creation, and from this connection interaction is clear and manifest. Thus it becomes clear that the interaction between created things, the cooperation and mutual assistance between elements, and the composition and analysis between beings are all connected to a moving power which is the axis and mover of creation.  ABU1435

The innumerable created things that are found in the world of existence--be they man, animal, plant, or mineral--must each be composed of elements. There is no doubt that the completeness seen in each and every thing arises, by divine creation, from the component elements, their appropriate combination, their proportionate measure, the manner of their composition, and the influence of other created things.  AB00278


The unity of the worlds of oneness hath fresh stations and infinite degrees. In one station it is sanctified above description and utterance, mention and explanation, and at this level form and body and flesh and name and trace have no place at all, that anyone should find a way unto it or comprehend love and affection or enumerate longing and rapture. It is treasured in the invisible treasury and stored in the vessels of mystery.   BH03390

