


The light which is mentioned in the holy books, is therefore the light of the intellect.   ABU2757

exposition on the words of Christ: 'He that desireth to follow Me, must bear his own cross.'   ABU2152

The meaning of the word in the tradition is not the pronounced letter. Rather, the meaning is...   AB03186

"Yes. I have explained this in the book Some Answered Questions. Refer to it. It will become clear."  ABU0913

This has significance; it needs explanation. The point is this, this is the fire of the love of God.   ABU0408

Discussion of why "Son" is used in Hidden Words and its interpretation as including both men and women  ABU1494

All these things - the fish, the honeycomb etc, are symbols and were meant to be understood spiritually   ABU3231

The Song of Solomon is a sacred poem, representing Christ the bridegroom and the word of God, the bride.  ABU1576

Therefore the Torah's statement does not contradict divine knowledge which encompasses the realities of things.   AB00954

Some people acclaim Christ as God; others regard Him as the Word of God; still others, as the Messenger of God.   ABU2563

The purpose is that the servants should understand and discover the meanings and allusions of the divine verses.   BH05707

The entire text discusses interpretation of the terms "Habib" (Beloved) and "Khalil" (Friend) and their relationship   AB07362

The text provides an interpretation of the Quranic verse about the lamp (24:35), explaining its spiritual significance  AB09498

These things have meanings, but Islam absolutely will not accept this interpretation. Now these people are the same way.  ABU1683

During the time of your visit here the meaning of the Words of Christ "Let the dead bury their dead" - was explained to you.  AB07139

As for the meaning of Esfandiar's two eyes that were blinded by Rostam's arrow - that refers to insight, not physical sight   AB05660

God shall teach you, through the tongue of the Remembrance, the interpretation of the Book, wondrously in truth by the truth.  BB00002

This narrative cannot be literally true, as the earth is round and not to be surveyed from any mountain. The meaning is this...  ABU2516

The text provides esoteric interpretation of Qur'anic verses, particularly the verse from Surah An-Nur about houses of worship.   BB00346

In Ahsanu'l-Qisas He mentions: "By God, the Glory gave birth to me in a palace of moist red ruby." This is the station of Fate.   ABU2713

His words are not to be taken literally, but as enjoining that there should be no resentment or retaliation for injuries received.  ABU1862

The intent of "heaven" is not this boundless space, but rather the intent of heaven is the world of reality which is higher than all worlds  AB05527

All the sacred mysteries were sealed, but now Baha'u'llah has broken the seals, revealed the meanings, and we can understand the Realities.  ABU2877

This dragon means Beni Omeyyeh who had seven wicked heads of their kings... The ten horns were ten of the impious ministers of Beni Omeyyeh.   AB01034

Perhaps after a thousand years much of what is every-day language to us will need explanation and the simple truths we teach will be glossed.  ABU3078

Regarding the blessed verse Show me how Thou givest life to the dead... As to the difficulty concerning the blessed verse that my heart may be at rest...  AB06645

It is not permitted for anyone to interpret the verses of the Book by his own knowledge. Say: Ask ye of Me whatsoever ye desire and that which ye know not.   BB00284

Explanation that the Quranic verses specify the number of the Companions as seven plus their dog, rejecting other suggested numbers as "guessing at random"   AB03341

for what was revealed in the Book from the Loving Friend regarding "He is established upon the throne" meant nothing by "throne" except His knowledge and power   BB00569

It does not mean that Christ shall stand in person and speak with kings and princes (although the time will come when even kings and princes will come and listen.)   ABU2913

Mrs. P. asked the meaning of 'There were two women in the field. One was taken and the other left.' Abdul Baha: One will accept and the other reject the Revelation.  ABU0379

Know thou that the Alexander whose mention the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an is none other than the Messenger Himself, though most people remain heedless.  BH06512

Kawthar is a word derived from Kathrat, meaning abundance. The divine Kawthar in this day is the sweet savour of holiness, which bestoweth new life upon every soul.   AB08015

In the Book of Certitude, [Baha'u'llah] has explained this chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the most wondrous manner. Refer to the Book of Certitude. As for the gathering of the Jews in Jerusalem and Palestine, this was previously revealed by the Supreme Pen, and in 'Abdu'l-Baha's letters thirty years ago, this glad tiding was given in detail to the Jews. Have no doubt that all will eventually enter under the shadow of the Lord of Hosts. Regarding the matter of Judas, and the matter of David, and the matter of Noah, and other matters recorded in the Torah - know that the Torah has two parts: one part historical and one part divine laws and religious ordinances. The section of laws and ordinances is from His Eminence Moses, but the historical section is from Ezra. Proof of this is that at the end of the fifth book, events that occurred after Moses are recorded, and it is clear as the sun that events after Moses were recorded by someone else. Refer to it and it will be evident. Therefore, since the historical accounts are not from Moses, the matters of David, Judas, Noah and other matters that contradict infallibility are historical, not reality. As for chapter 8, verse 22 of Zechariah - those to whose hem other nations will cling are the people of God, and the people of God are the people of truth and insight. The people of God in that day are those souls who become the manifestation of divine favors and are successful in attaining the greatest guidance. The veiled souls are not counted among the people of God, just as God tells Noah that Canaan is not of his lineage because he is deprived of the greatest guidance. Therefore, any soul from the community of Moses who is faithful and assured in the verses of God is among the people of God and will certainly attain eternal glory and everlasting prosperity.  AB04721

There are two kinds of opinion (zann): negative opinion and positive opinion. And in one place, opinion has the meaning of certainty and knowledge - "they are certain."   ABU1681

Then you do not mean this phenomenal heaven? I mean the heaven from which Christ descended and to which he ascended--the heaven of divine Will, the heaven of spirituality.   ABU3594

This talk opens with the words, About six hundred years ago. This Society was founded in the city of Hamadan six hundred years ago and has nothing to do with this movement.  AB11297

The Master said this meant the liver of those who went before; that is to say, the religious laws of each preceding prophet are annulled by the succeeding one and are as dry bones.  ABU2767

He replied, "It means that in the Qur'an there are histories, interpretations, meanings, historical details, promises and warnings - indeed mention of everything is found therein."  ABU1993

One of the meanings of the prophecy in the Old Testament that the lion and the deer shall graze together in one meadow is that men and women shall be equal and have the same rights.  ABU2930

Have you considered what has been written, what is meant by this utterance and who is intended? However, it has never been the way of the people of God to speak beyond their station.  BH00004

Then the Master spoke about Mohamadan and Christian Calendars, the prophetic dates mentioned in Daniel, the scattering of the Jews at the time of Titus and the destruction of Jerusalem.  ABU2788

In one station, this exalted word was revealed from the tongue of the Lord of Names - exalted be His glory: "May God hasten His relief," which yielded "May God hasten their punishment."   BH00185

Say: Verily ye have read in the Book that on the Day of Resurrection God shall manifest a fire, and verily it is the fire of God. And when five are added unto it, then it becometh light.  BB00004

to inspire thee with the mysteries of the Holy Book, so that thou mayest know the significances of vision and the reality of revelation, and all the hidden symbols of prophetic Scripture  AB10245

Regarding the Station of Mahmud, in the mighty Qur'an it is revealed addressing the Beauty of Muhammad: "It may be that thy Lord will raise thee to a Station of Praise (Maqam-i-Mahmud)."   AB07544

And We have revealed unto thee from what God hath concealed within the inmost reality of this verse, that perchance the people may believe in God and His verses with true and mighty faith.  BB00002

The "fatted calf" is the Heavenly Table of Knowledge; the "ring" is the Sign or Characteristics; the "sandals" are the symbol of action; the "robe" the Adornment or Embroidery of the Cause   ABU1559

When Prophet Joshua states that the valley of Achor is the door of hope, is that about 'Akka? ['Abdu'l-Baha] responded: Yes, Achor is this same 'Akka. The Westerners refer to 'Akka as Achor.  ABU3653

Know thou that this Surih is the spirit of the Qur'an and the cause of the revelation of the Bayan, and upon it turn all universal causes pertaining to whatsoever beareth the name of a thing.   BB00075

We have not made the mystery of Joseph to be envied around the waters upon the land of Euphrates. We desire not to be other than witnesses to His call upon the earth, in truth and with justice.  BB00002

Consider when Jesus was asked at the time when the Pharisees had gathered round Him; He said to the questioner: "Thou sayest," and gave no other answer. Thus was the matter ordained in the Book.   BH00817

But as to the Beast mentioned in the Revelations, he was a soul who with all his might strove to exterminate the Cause of God. He was the King of Persia, that is, he was one of the Kings of the past.  AB10479

This is one of the secrets of the continuous gathering and a symbol concealed from the sight of all who see, revealed through the appearance of the Great and Most Glorious One, the Promised and Expected One   AB00814

The hadith can be interpreted this way. Another interpretation is that everything has aspects - an aspect from its Lord, which is the sign of Hussein, and an aspect from itself, which is the sign of his killer.  BB00321

The meaning of ALM is that this Book which I have sent down - even these disconnected letters, which are Alif, Lam, Mim in your language and the letters of your alphabet - produce its like if you are truthful.   BB00045

In the Qur'an it is said: "It may be that thy Lord will raise thee to a station of praise." For this "station of praise" many meanings and countless interpretations have been given that would fill several volumes.  AB07920

Then know that the return of the Qa'im is the manifestation of that Light. I seek God's forgiveness from that! What am I alone? By Him Who created me, I am utter nothingness before His presence and await His days.   BB00412

Today a Persian soul asked me about this glorious verse revealed in the Surah of Light where God, glorified be He, saith: In houses which God hath permitted to be raised and that His name may be remembered in them.  BB00346

As to the worlds whereunto Christ (unto whom be the great glory) referred: They are spiritual, divine, heavenly, single, unlocated; neither the imperfect mind can comprehend them, nor the sinning soul can know them.  AB10282

Know thou that all the matters mentioned in the Gospels referring to the miracles of His Holiness the Christ, have explanations and interpretations which no one knows save those endowed with spiritual eyes and ears.  AB01989

This story needs no explanation - meaning plainly understood. Verse 11: Neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more. This shows that we should never look upon the faults of others but only consider our own faults.  ABU0044

The details of this matter would lead to undue length, but verily the decisive verses are those from which the divine purpose can be directly understood, requiring no further proof or mention for their establishment.  BH00004

God has created all things in such a manner that they have always two conditions - the condition of perfection and the condition of imperfection. The flower blooms; this is perfection - it fades; this is imperfection.  ABU0320

The text discusses how divine rebukes addressed to Prophets in scripture are actually meant for their followers, explaining several examples from the Torah, Bible and Qur'an to demonstrate this interpretive principle.  AB00168

Glorified be God! It is as though they read not the decree of the Qur'an and perceive not the ordinances of the people of exposition, and they have judged in the knowledge of their Lord like the judgment of water in trees.  BB00084

As for the "thousand two hundred and ninety days" mentioned in the previous verse heralding the universal manifestation, these are calculated according to the lunar calendar as is clearly stated in Some Answered Questions.   AB03835

Today the duty of all is to follow whatever has been revealed from the Supreme Pen and believe in whatever is the clear and evident utterance of this servant. They should never interpret or explain, nor seek hidden meanings.  AB02251

The numerical value of "'Asq" is 230, which is connected and related to the Gate of Remission. When the number of "Gate" is added to the number of "'Asq" it becomes 235, and this is the year of birth of the Light of Guidance   AB01954

You made mention of what the All-Merciful revealed in the Qur'an. Yes, the Wronged One bears witness that it is the truth in which there is no doubt. However, for the "fresh and withered" there have been and are many meanings.  BH01895

verily, ye have rent the veil asunder, removed the covering, become informed of the mysteries of God and of the symbols of the Holy Bible, have understood the interpretations of its verses, discovered the truth of its evidences  AB09751

Isfandiyar the renowned - they say he was invulnerable, meaning arrow and sword had no effect on him. Outwardly this saying is a myth...But the true meaning is that he took refuge in the impregnable fortress of the love of God   AB03125

Verily, the people are veiled from comprehending the meanings of the Gospel, the Bible and the Koran and know not the interpretation of the scriptures of God, except those whose eyes are opened by the outpouring of the Spirit of God.  AB05900

As for the blessed verse "Eight shall bear the throne of thy Lord on that day" - know that the eight bears the nine, and this indicates that the number of the Most Great Name is nine, as it sits upon the eight that bears its throne.   AB00216

"'To him that hath shall be given, and from him that hath not shall be taken away even that he hath.' This is the exposition of one of the great questions of Divine Wisdom which Christ has couched in this brief and simple utterance."   ABU1474

Therefore one must understand the mysteries of the Holy Book and grasp the meaning of the Torah and Gospel, for they are all symbols and mysteries. Until one discovers these mysteries one remains deprived and does not discover reality.  ABU0421

To this Thy servant give the understanding of the Old Testament and the New and enable her to speak forth with mighty voice and to sing with power the holy songs and to discover the real meaning and the secret mysteries of those verses  AB11304

And as for him who asked about the decree of the two souls in the blessed verse, Thou, O my God, hast indeed explained its decree through interpretation that were the sea ink for Thy words, the sea would be spent before Thy words are spent  BB00102

Please refer to that. Owing to the great (press of) work, I have not the time for several explanations. I ask God that thou mayest attain such a state of perception, as will enable thee to expound with knowledge the words of the Holy Bible.  AB06845

And if thou desirest to know the meaning of this verse regarding the station of the second pillar, interpret it as the Imam (peace be upon him) interpreted God is the Light of the heavens and earth when asked about the meaning of this verse.  BB00046

But whatever is inscribed by the Divine Pen on the tablet of the heart corresponds to this writing and accords with the Wise Remembrance and the Clear Book. However, alien impressions prevent the mind from reading those lines in the breasts.  AB09958

Many Koranic commentators have written pages after page[s] on the interpretation of this chapter referring their exegesis to the day of resurrection. We are now in the Cycle of resurrection and one of its manifold phases is the Universal War.   ABU0805

A holy city, and a Lord Ever-Forgiving is the glorious utterance and the explicit text of the Qur'an. The holy city is the City of Love, and the Lord Ever-Forgiving is manifest and evident to the friends of that city with His attribute of mercy.  AB10934

And verily thy knowledge in the ocean of names is not established except through thy knowledge in the ocean of creation. And I shall teach thee the essence of the Bayan in a surih from the Furqan... [Followed by detailed interpretative analysis]   BB00654

In the Qur'an it clearly and explicitly states: "And among His signs is the creation of the heavens and earth, and the living creatures that He has scattered through them both." This means that in both heaven and earth there exist living beings.   AB07239

The learned ones say this fire of guidance blazed in the green tree and His Holiness Moses became firm and steadfast upon that fire. But the meaning is not thus, though according to the delicate thoughts of the learned ones it is absolute truth.   AB04269

In the mighty Qur'an, the perspicuous Book, "We shall raise thee to a praiseworthy station" was revealed, and the interpreters have offered interpretations and investigations. But its true meaning is the comprehensiveness of all perfect attributes  AB10954

If a person without quoting the first words quotes the second, he who does not know will fall into doubt and suspicion... This is what is written in the 15th chap. of St John's Gospel, verses 1 and 2... Also it says in the 8th chapter of St John...   AB00702

Timothy 1 was written by bishops. James 1:13-14 - "Let no man say when he is tempted, 'I am tempted of God' for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth He any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed."  ABU2648

The river of water is the truth, new, pure and clear teachings and not ignorantly interpreted as is done by Christianity, and also to come forth by the Manifestation and Abdul-Baha. Baha'o'llah said that the world "throne" is the body of Baha'o'llah.  ABU0252

If you interpret this verse according to the above explanation, it will be correct; because [it] has not left its transcendent station in order to find an entrance into the mirror, but it is ever stationed in its own center of grandeur and perpetuity.  ABU2024

I know not how they interpret the words of Truth which say "The Day mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds," and then He says "Woe on that Day to the deniers who deny the Day of Judgment! And none denies it except every sinful transgressor."  BH00460

And now, in this spiritual dawn, having aimed for the heaven of inner meanings and having attained the presence [of God], I turned towards the Countenance of the Ancient of Days, and these sublime words were revealed from the Dayspring of might and power.  BH11632

The traces of the Prophets and the great events of the chosen ones must either all be given true meanings or must be plainly narrated according to their outward sense. In both cases the exposition is proof and manifestation of knowledge and understanding.  AB00503

"In the Old Testament several of the Prophets are mentioned as having lived long periods, as Methusaleh, 969 years. Does not this refer to their cycles as Manifestations?" "Yes, it means that the dominion of their laws and ordinances covered such periods."  ABU3045

For the celestial maidens of divine meanings in the chambers of holy infallible utterances have ever been and shall ever be veiled from mortal eyes. None hath touched them save the Manifestation Himself and those who were His proofs on the day of His appearance.  BH00004

Question: And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come. [followed by the entire answer explanation]  AB01521

O servant in attendance, say to the heedless people: Fix your gaze upon the Tree and its fruits. Today the Tree of inner meanings with its wondrous, novel and subtle fruits of divine knowledge is visible. Is it permissible to abandon this and say its time has not come?  BH01356

This is why it says in the Gospel regarding the signs of the next Manifestation: "The stars shall fall and the moon shall not give its light forever." Certainly the brilliant rays that appeared from the Sun of Truth eclipse the radiance and glory of every shining star.  AB04243

Through the spirit of a word, if you are not heedless, I will plant a seed in your heart, which will grow into a great tree. After a word has been spoken it may be forgotten: but the spirit with which it was uttered remains, for good or evil. This spirit is the real word.  ABU0894

We narrate unto thee the most excellent of stories through what We have revealed unto thee in this Quran, though before it thou wert among the heedless. O thou pure one! Verily We have set forth the stories for those who seek Us from before the Gate, loving and responsive.  BB00002

Heaven and hell have been misunderstood until the Blessed Perfection explained the true meaning which is difficult to understand. There are two kinds of Eden--one of this world, and one in the world to come. Hell has also two conditions, one here and one in the world to come.  ABU0370

Such is the meaning of the resurrection of Christ, and this was a true resurrection. But as the clergy did not grasp the meaning of the Gospels and did not comprehend this mystery, it was claimed that religion was opposed to science and science was incompatible with religion.  AB00575

Whosoever seeketh to know Me through aught else than what was revealed by Me is indeed the most veiled of all creation before the Self-Sufficient, the Most High. Whosoever desireth to behold Me must behold Me through Mine own eyes." Thus was the matter decreed in the Tablets.   BH02167

In regard to forgiveness of sins: there are some verses that have been misunderstood such as: (Matt, 16-19) "Whatsoever thou shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." This verse has quite another meaning.  ABU1873

Have mercy on thyself and enter with humility through the Gate of Remission. Ask forgiveness of the Gate through the Gate, and await the Mystery of Mysteries in the Point of the Qur'an after the separation on the Day of the revelation of the Criterion in the gathering of unity.  BB00244

In any case, this verse was originally and thou hast been given but little knowledge and the proof is Say: O my Lord! advance me in knowledge and other Quranic verses. I know not the unseen is established, and I will tell you tomorrow is a tradition mentioned in the commentaries.  AB06693

There is a Sentence in the New Testament where Christ says he will not eat of the grape again until he eats thereof in His Father's Kingdom. What do the great and learned men think Concerning this sentence? There is no grape in the Kingdom. This a symbol and sign of the Word of God.  ABU1857

Likewise, the spiritual mansions of meaning are in twenty-eight letters. As for the number twenty-one, it refers to the number of the unity of the Exalted Bab and the Letters of the Living. When two is added to it, it indicates the second rising, meaning the subsequent manifestation.   AB01906

Regarding your question about the tradition concerning the spring of the cow's eye - you can see and witness with the eye of certainty that the spring of the cow's eye has indeed gushed forth in this land, and the cattle drink from it, and the deaf, dumb and blind beasts find it sweet.  AB06512

Say: None knows the interpretation of what We have revealed in the Book except God and whom He wishes. Verily there is no god but He, the Mighty, the Powerful. Whosoever interprets a single letter of Our verses contrary to what God has revealed in the Quran before - these are the losers.   BB00091

It is very evident that the account of the Ten Plagues of Egypt cannot be meant or understood literally. Therefore we may plainly see that the intention and meaning of these events is symbolical, and that they have a spiritual meaning. They are not to be understood as literal occurrences.  ABU1461

'The Christians have not understood its meaning. They imagine that it means the redemption of sins through the Christian leaders. The intention of Christ was to permit His disciples to elaborate or abrogate the laws of the Torah, as He had altered only two, those of the Sabbath and divorce.'  ABU2215

Then this verse was revealed: "Verily, it is thy enemy who is cut off." At that same time this blessed verse was revealed: "Wealth and children are an adornment of the life of this world, but the things that endure, good deeds, are better in thy Lord's sight for reward, and better for hope."   BH01778

By God! These are the words of the Primal Point revealed anew from His tongue in this holy, radiant, most luminous Temple. Strive thou within thyself not to deny that through which thy faith and the faith of them that acknowledged and confessed what was revealed unto Him of the verses of God   BH00853

In the bible he says 'no one goes to heaven save the one who came from heaven.' Then it says 'The son of man said "I am [...] heaven" while he was on earth. This is in the Bible. Now consider those ignorant ones who thought that what [...] said was not true, whilst the "heaven" was with [...]   ABU1884

In the blessed verse "Return thou content, well-pleasing, and enter thou among My servants and enter thou My paradise" - some maintain that "among My servants" means [...], but those who understand inner meanings and truths maintain that "among My servants" means "into the hearts of My servants."   AB11779

Take heed of what God revealed in the Furqan: "And the sun runs unto a resting-place." This clear statement from the Qur'an contradicted what Ptolemy and every philosopher after him maintained, for those Ptolemaic principles were accepted among mathematicians whose fame had spread to all horizons.  AB00289

The Surih of the Companions of the Elephant will, God willing, be interpreted later and sent to you. At present there is not time to write even one line or interpret the Companions of the Birds, let alone the Companions of the Elephant. Pray that 'Abdu'l-Baha may find a little time to write a commentary  AB12433

This "rod out of the stem of Jesse" might seem to apply to Christ, for Joseph was a descendant of Jesse, the father of David. However, since Christ had come into being through the Divine Spirit, He called Himself the Son of God. Had this not been the case, this passage could have indeed applied to Him.   AB00091

"Although Rumi's tongue spoke these verses, it does not appear that he himself was truly aware, as he should have been, of the reality of the meaning that can be derived from this verse and which corresponds to truth. How often it happens that words flow from a tongue while the speaker himself is unaware."  AB03171

The first vial (or cup) really means influence. The heat of the sun signifies his rule and authority. The drying up of the water means that all learning and science was abolished, and that ignorance prevailed. These garments signify the good qualities which the man possessed, such as love, sincerity, etc.   ABU0360

Opening the Qur'an, this verse appeared: "God does not burden any soul beyond its capacity." The divine had become very thoughtful and then said the consultation has meaning - it means that if souls did not have the capacity, this obligation would not be imposed. You have the capacity, therefore you must go.   ABU0883

His Holiness Christ says, "No one came from heaven, except the Son of Man who is in heaven." Notice that Christ came from the womb of His mother, and while He was of earth considered Himself heavenly. Therefore by heaven is not meant this never-ending space, but the immense station and spirituality of Christ.  ABU0639

I was asked about five decisive verses wherein many have gone astray. Thou knowest, O my God, that I desired not to answer through the ways of reasoning, as I had delegated authority to him who was my teacher in the realm of names and attributes, and who was the most worthy of all people in regard to the Book.   BB00196

As to the verses which thou didst ask about from the Gospel of Luke, know thou that Christ was the Jonah of His age and the whale is this world. Whosoever entereth the belly of the whale perisheth eternally, but Christ entered the belly of this whale as did Jonah and emerged alive, eternal in might and majesty.  AB03018

Now behold how these united statements, which outwardly appear different and contradictory, can be comprehended by these weak servants... If you cannot yourself understand the complexities of divine principles, ask of the Fountain of eternal meanings, for none but Him has understood or will understand His words.   BH00331

None knows the interpretation of the Book save God. It is not for anyone to speak of it or ponder it. Thus has the matter been decreed by One Who is mighty and powerful. Say: Take what We intend and the outward meanings of what We have revealed in the Book. This is better for you, if you be of those who understand   BH05886

Ponder these words of John who gave tidings of the holy and great City, until he said: "And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it. And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it," unto the end of his words.  BH02080

the meaning of the blessed verse is that the fire of hell transforms the face, leaving no freshness - it burns and discolors it. That is, the fires of rejection and denial burn one's face, and "the guilty shall be known by their marks" comes to pass. It leaves no delicacy, cheerfulness, freshness or light of faith   AB00895

The First Six referreth to the heavens of the previous Cycle which were created in six days, "and have passed," that is, were rolled up by the Upright Alif which is the Point; then another Six were raised up through the manifestation of My Most Glorious Name. Thus doth the All-Knowing, the All-Informed, apprise thee.   BH01412

It is most difficult to say which one of these Bibles is correct, for each [seat] holding fast to his own bible claiming it to be the only authoritative one and the other two as unreliable. Therefore all the historical parts of the Bible belong to the historians but the commandments and the Decalogue belong to Moses.   ABU2619

Consider the sun: when it rises in the morning, it is the resurrection of earthly beings...Yet despite the fact that all beings are resurrected and scattered through this bounty of the sun, and their existence depends on its dawning and rising, they are unaware of this bounty - except for living beings that are alive.  ABU0366

They are the kindred of God among you and the people of His household in your midst, and His mercy unto all worlds, if ye be of them that know. Through them the breezes of God waft over you and the winds of might pass over them that are nigh, and they are the Pen of God and His Command and His Word amongst His creatures   BH00431

As to what thou hast asked concerning that which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an to Muhammad, the Apostle of God, where He saith, Who maketh the angels His messengers, having wings two, and three, and four - know thou that the angels have diverse ranks and stations, and likewise exalted positions, some above others.  BH00174

It is revealed in the Koran: 'They have ears but they do not hear; eyes but they do not see, hearts but they do not comprehend;-' in other words, they have ears but they are deaf to the Call of God; they have eyes but they are blind to the Beauty of the Beloved; they have hearts but they are not aware of Mysteries of the Kingdom.  ABU1093

This is what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an regarding the Day of Resurrection in His exalted words: "One party shall be in Paradise, and one party in the Fire." This is that Day unto which the countenance of the divine Books was turned, and wherein the mysteries of the heavenly Scriptures were made manifest and clear.  BH00697

Furthermore, the objection of some to the words of the philosopher was without proof, for they understood not the speaker's intent. In truth, one cannot be content with the outward meaning of words and rise up in derision, except in the case of those who openly profess unbelief and idolatry, whose words admit of no interpretation.   BH00409

Indeed in such cases they regarded interpretation as the truth of revelation and the essence of true exegesis: thus, for instance, they interpreted the sovereignty of the Qa'im as a mystical sovereignty, and His conquests as conquests of the cities of hearts, adducing in support of this the meekness and defeat of the Chief of Martyrs  AB00003

This means that He would rule supreme in that age. In other words, the law and teachings of Muhammad, and the exposition and commentaries of 'Ali, are a heavenly grace. Should they wish to bestow this grace, it is in their power to do so, and should they wish otherwise, no rain will fall, and by rain is meant here the outpouring grace.  AB00019

Moreover, in certain passages of the sacred scriptures where allusion is made to the Spirit, a specific person is intended, as it is conventionally said in speech and conversation that such and such a person is spirit personified or is the embodiment of mercy and generosity. In this case the focus is not upon the lamp but upon the light.   AB01290

In a verse of the Qur'an He says: "Then We caused such of Our servants as We chose to inherit the Scripture. But of them are some who wrong their own souls; and of them are some who follow a middle course; and of them are some who outstrip others through their good deeds." He states that We chose Our servants, but they are of three kinds...   AB03661

As for what you wrote regarding the visitation prayer for the Prince of Martyrs, peace be upon him - from the visitation prayer itself it is clear that what is meant by the Prince of Martyrs is the martyr of Karbala, the son of Fatimih-Zahra. You should certainly have no doubt about this and not be satisfied with interpretations of the texts.   AB02988

As for the matter of Yahya, it is explicitly stated in the Bayan that when He Whom God Shall Make Manifest appears, He is like the sun - if mirrors move with the sun's movement they receive its effulgence, but if they do not follow the sun's movement and the sun moves from one place to another while the mirrors do not move, they remain veiled.   AB01058

As for what thou didst ask regarding the interpretation of His exalted words "When he saw the moon rising in splendor, he said: 'This is my Lord'" - it hath infinite meanings which no tablet of possibility nor pen of exposition can contain. However, I shall indicate a trace of wisdom: In every Manifestation, the name "Lord" is truly applicable.   BB00226

In the Gospels it is written that the Christ said: "I have many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now! But when he, the spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you unto all knowledge." Christ is alluding to a person, because he says, "When he is come, he will not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak."  ABU1349

"Its similitude is that of a niche in which there is a lamp." The radiance streaming forth from this point of dawn is like a lamp in this material world. It constitutes the key that can open all the portals before the face of humanity so that the essence of the Cause of the Lord of creation might become manifest as is implied by that divine verse.   AB06300

The sabbath, which is one of the ten Commandments of the Old Testament, is Saturday. The Commandments, however undergo change at the appearance of the Holy Manifestations according to the requirement of time and place. In the cycle of His Holiness, Christ, may my soul be sacrificed for Him, the councils of the Christians changed Saturday to Sunday.  AB10479

O thou who asketh concerning the noble verse revealed in the Qur'an, and seeketh to understand the meanings and explanations concealed therein - know that what hath been sent down from the kingdom of our Lord, the Mighty, the Merciful, containeth manifold meanings and countless explanations. At times We interpret it outwardly, and at times inwardly.  AB00014

Say: O heedless ones! What meaning have ye given to the words He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth? By God's life! Should a soul truly attain unto this most exalted Word and comprehend its meaning, no veil would prevent him and no covering would conceal him from drinking of the Living Waters flowing from the Pen of the All-Merciful.  BH04705

In the Gospel it is explicitly stated that in His first coming, although Christ was born to Mary, He Himself said that He came from heaven. Thus, the meaning of 'heaven' is the greatness of the Cause and eminence and might of the Manifestation of God Who spreads this divine Cause by His heavenly power and divine strength and not through material means.   ABU2982

News has come that on the Day of Resurrection the earth will draw closer together, but they did not understand that wondrous inventions would make East and West intimate companions, and new discoveries would make North and South confidants. They thought the earth would become closer through contraction and confinement, but what benefit would that bring?   AB04679

The idolaters supposed that since the Prophet was without heir, His Cause and His decree would perish and vanish. They were heedless that all that appeared from Him was adorned with the ornament of perpetuity and imperishable glory. And to spite the idolaters, the Surih of Kawthar was revealed, meaning that the idolaters are the ones cut off and heirless.  BH01763

The meaning is that the Apostles taught in a spiritual tongue, a tongue that embraces all tongues. For the Word of the Kingdom comprises spiritual meanings and divine mysteries, and whoso attains to this Word will find the realities and mysteries of creation to be clear and evident. The divine inner meanings are the all-encompassing reality of all tongues.  AB05412

From what hath been revealed from the Kingdom of the All-Merciful's utterance, it is clear and evident that certain divine verses concerning association, conduct, behavior, transactions, ordinances and the like - were their meaning to depart from the literal sense, God's Cause would be suspended and impeded. To this every discerning scholar beareth witness.  BH00013

Were We to interpret and expound them now, no wayfarer could bear it. And if thou wouldst sharpen thy vision and reflect, thou wouldst witness that these are the days wherein thy Lord's Cause hath been spread abroad and hath been and will be decreed, and through it truth is distinguished from falsehood, light from darkness, and the wretched from the blessed.   BH00631

Know thou that the people, even unto this day, have failed to unravel the hidden secrets of the Book. They imagine that Christ was excluded from His heaven in the days when He walked the earth, that He fell from the heights of His sublimity, and afterwards mounted to those upper reaches of the sky, to the heaven which doth not exist at all, for it is but space.  AB01866

"Measure of wheat for a penny." May be fulfilled about 1335 A.D. or 1917 and means that wheat will be very dear and scarce, because a handful for a penny is a small amount and else a penny in the time of John was a large coin, eight durhams at the time of John was about eight drams. In this time the wheat was cheap so that in the future wheat would be very dear.   ABU0747

In Solomon's Song, the symbolism which is used throughout it of a bride and bridegroom is true symbolism or allegory - no real bride or bridegroom is intended. The story of Joshua causing the sun to stand still is an allegory for it means that he was so steadfast and true in the Faith, that during his lifetime the sun of Moses never set or went below the horizon.   ABU1695

Baha'u'llah said, 'When Christ came for the first time He came upon the clouds'. Christ said that He had come from the sky, from Heaven -- that He came forth from God -- while He was born of Mary, His Mother. But when He declared that He had come from Heaven, it is clear that He did not mean the blue firmament but that He spoke of the Heaven of the Kingdom of God.  ABU0735

They have forbidden themselves the cup of clear exposition and have said: "Where is that which God promised in the Books and Tablets? How hath the Truth come before error hath become universal? How have the laws been abrogated before their execution, when God hath said: 'Whatever verse We abrogate or cause to be forgotten, We bring one better than it or its like'?"   AB00160

Thou knowest, O my God, that interpretation hath been sought concerning the inner meaning of the Surih of Unity, before which nothing can stand and none knoweth how Thou art except Thee. The words Thou didst reveal in that blessed Surih are but the interpretation of the letter Ha in the primary letters, as was clearly stated by the Prince of Martyrs in his utterance.   BB00145

Were this oppression (which literally meaneth pressure) to be interpreted that the earth is to become contracted, or were men's idle fancy to conceive similar calamities to befall mankind, it is clear and manifest that no such happenings can ever come to pass. Whereas, by oppression is meant the want of capacity to acquire spiritual knowledge and apprehend the Word of God.  BH00002

Consider how heedless they are. The Bab declareth: "Beware lest thou be veiled by what hath been revealed in the Bayan." This statement... Know that the School of Him Whom God shall make manifest -- this is mentioned in reference to the School as revealed in the Bayan wherein He warns: "Beware lest it become a barrier that veils thee from Him Whom God shall make manifest."   AB00082

Know thou that this verse hath meanings which none among the people of creation can reckon save him whom God, the Lord of earth and heaven, doth aid. As for this water sent down from this heaven, it hath in every station meanings whereof We shall now mention some, that perchance thou mayest detach thyself from all that was and shall be, and turn unto God, the Mighty, the Beloved.  AB00012

As for the verse mentioned in The Seven Valleys, this verse is from His Holiness Ali: Dost thou reckon thyself only a puny form, when within thee the universe is folded? He says, look not upon the smallness of thy physical frame, which is but an earthly shell and a handful of dust, but rather consider that pure spirit which possesses all perfections and is connected to this body.  AB07601

As for the Quranic verse which describes the bearer of the Most Great Trust as unjust and ignorant - this unjust and ignorant is not an exaggeration of being oppressive and unaware, rather its meaning is oppressed and unknown. That is, the bearer of the Most Great Trust is oppressed because the people deny and show pride, and His station is unknown for they recognize not His worth.  AB10850

The interpreters are those who speak without seeing and judge without attaining. By God's grace, what We have mentioned has been from God's clear verses and from that which is accepted by you and the people of the Bayan, inasmuch as the Bayan was revealed only to command all explicitly and without interpretation that should anyone appear with divine verses, none should object to him.  BH00004

When the seed is first planted, you cannot expect to gather the harvest immediately. A baby is first nourished by milk, gradually he is fed on other foods. Mary desired that Christ would reveal Himself to those present, but He said: 'The hour is not yet come.' The water in this sense bears the meaning of words, for it is the cause of life, in its literal and spiritual interpretation.  ABU2503

Some persons have imagined that the word fajir in the holy tradition 'God doth give victory to this religion (Islam) by means of a wicked man' deriveth from fujur ('disobedience', 'wickedness'). However, the sacred intention of our Lord, his Holiness the Prophet [Muhammad], peace be upon him, of the word fajir in the holy tradition, on the contrary, is fariq, that is 'distinguishing'.  AB00451

And by this wine We intended the Kawthar of God and His outpouring, and the Salsabil of God and His Tasnim, and the wine of God and His grace, even as was revealed in the Furqan, if you be of those who know. He said - and His word is the truth - "wine delightful to those who drink." And by this wine He intended naught but what We have mentioned to you, O concourse of the assured ones.   BH04606

The union of the wolf and the lamb means that those who are far from each other in religion may become believers and accept the same book, i.e. - religion. What would be the use of the two beasts eating together and to be in peace - there would be no result. But if two enemies should come together and be united in one religion, it would be of great benefit and they would do great good.  ABU1341

But let us return to our original theme. In the holy books and sacred scriptures there is mention of a "return," but the ignorant have failed to grasp its meanings and have imagined it to refer to reincarnation. For what the Prophets of God meant by "return" is not the return of the essence but of the attributes; it is not the return of the Manifestation Himself but of His perfections.  AB00036

Interpret not the divine Word, and remain not veiled from its outer meaning, for none knoweth its interpretation save God and those who are heedless of the outer meaning of the words and claim to understand their inner meanings - I swear by the Most Great Name that such souls have been and shall ever be liars. Blessed are they who act upon the outer meaning and hope for the inner meaning.   BH01572

Know thou that this perception did not originally exist in the physical world. The twelfth Imam existed in the Unseen realm, but had no reality on the material plane. However, some of the Shi'ih elders of the time deemed it advisable, solely for the protection of the weak elements among the people, to portray a person existing in the Unseen realm as being possessed of a corporal existence.  AB01629

As to thy question concerning the 54th chapter of Isaiah - This chapter refers to the Most Exalted Leaf, the mother of Abdu'l-Baha. As a proof of this it is said: 'For more are the children of the desolate, than the children of the married wife.' Reflect upon this statement, and then upon the following: 'And thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be inhabited.'   AB07153

What is meant by "jinn" in the blessed verse of the Furqan are souls whose faith and denial are hidden and concealed. The jinn is a hidden being, thus He says "they see you from where you do not see them" meaning they are aware and cognizant of faith and certitude in you, but their faith and certitude are hidden from you - "one in whom the light of faith or the fire of rebellion is concealed."  AB01239

Strange to note that none of these so-called devout champions have seen their prophets and would not recognize them if they appear today before their eyes. Thus you observe clearly that all these dissentions and quarrels are over the name and not the reality. Fighting over the supposed superiority of one name over another has retarded the progress of the world and led to bloodshed and rapine.   ABU0673

And as for what thou hast asked concerning what is mentioned in the Tablets about the jinn - yea, it is the truth, and We are of those who are certain of it. However, this name has diverse applications, if ye be of those who understand. Among them, it is applied to men who are like lightning in the days of God, such that they pass by all who are in the heavens and the earth in less than a moment   BH03724

And some lovers of the luminous beauty of the mighty Prophet, upon him be prayer and peace, have stated that the dawn is the bright luminous face of the beauty of Muhammad and the ten nights are the two eyebrows, four eyelashes, two mustaches, and the blessed beard and hair of the head - this is how they have interpreted it. This is a lover's interpretation. You may accept whichever one you wish.  AB01308

In earlier years the Most Exalted Pen wrote about the interpretation and inner meanings of the divine Books, and likewise about unveiling the symbols and allusions of the companions of the Bayan and their meanings - that which every person of knowledge hath testified to the Ocean of divine knowledge. However in these days We have not been and are not inclined to interpretation and inner meanings.   BH02262

That which is necessary today is that the Hands of the Cause of God should guide the servants to the Dawning-Place of true divine unity and fix their gaze upon the horizon of the One Manifestation, and not, like the former people, take up a new idol each day. This is My counsel to them, and We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to confirm all in what He hath revealed in His perspicuous Book.   BH01436

And now, regarding what thou hast inscribed upon the tablet of paper and what thou hast asked concerning the verse from the Book and the tradition wherein God, glorified be He, saith: I was a Hidden Treasure and loved to be known, therefore I created creation that I might be known. Know thou that the seas of creation and invention would not suffice to explain the meaning of a single letter thereof  BB00090

The essence of its translation is that He saith: My ascension to the most exalted horizon is better for you, for until I ascend to the seat of truth with the Mighty, Omnipotent Sovereign, that Comforting Spirit shall not come. When I ascend, I will send Him, and when that Pure Spirit appeareth in the world of dust, He shall convince people of three things: of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment.  AB00173

They did not understand the verses for they took only their literal meaning; consequently, they were deprived of an appreciation of the beauty of Christ. For instance: They were expecting the coming of Christ with sovereignty. They expected Him to have such power that He would overcome the East and the West. He was to rule with a rod of iron in His hands, and to promote and fulfil the law of Moses.  ABU0459

As for your questions regarding Malachi chapter 3 verses 16-17 and 18, these verses refer to the loved ones of God. And Matthew chapter 25 verses 30-31-32 and 33 refer to the Blessed Beauty. And Micah chapter 5 verse 4 refers to Christ. And Zephaniah chapter 1 verses 14-15-16-17 and 18, and Zechariah chapter 2 verses 10-11-12 and 13, Luke chapter 21 verse 20 to the end refer to the Blessed Century.   AB01812

Christ meant, through metaphor and allusion, to affirm the words of Peter. And so, since the latter's name meant "rock," He said: "Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church." That is, thy belief that Christ is the Son of the living God will become the foundation of the religion of God, and upon this belief the foundation of the church of God--which is the Law of God--shall be established.   AB00256

As for your question about the passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, the primary intent of the Crimson Scroll is the Tablet of the Covenant, and that word commands unity, for human oneness and unity and accord are the cause of the manifestation of that universal power which has been deposited in human reality, nay rather, adds to it. Refer to the Book of the Covenant and it will become clear and evident.  AB08157

Consider thou the letter Nun, which in every station hath meanings none knoweth save God and whomsoever He strengtheneth with authority from His presence. In its outward meaning in language it signifieth fish, which is an allusion to him who is immersed in the ocean of divine revelation and witness, who is plunged in the depths of the sea of the Kingdom, and who hath descended into the abyss of the love of the Beloved.  AB00015

Observe that it says they will "awaken" - from the expression of awakening, it becomes clear what rising from the graves means. As Ezekiel says: "Behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people, and bring you into the land of Israel." The meaning of graves is not physical bodies and corpses, but rather that spirits buried in bodies will be resurrected and gathered and assemble in the land of Israel.  AB00370

For example, the meaning of this surih in the Psalms is: I seek guidance from God Who hath made David His Prophet and endowed him with the mercy of grace - the requirement of the Primary Will whereby He loveth to cause all things to enter Paradise - and with the mercy of justice which is manifested through the Secondary Will whereby He withholdeth the knowledge of Himself from whom He willeth and bestoweth it upon whom He willeth.  BB00654

Regarding the matter of Ezra (peace be upon him), the truth is that it refers to the people of Moses who were captured and humiliated by Nebuchadnezzar's invasion, with seventy thousand taken captive to Babylon from the Holy Land. This nation was dead and extinct for a hundred years. Ezra was grieved and distressed by this event, whereupon he received the glad tidings that this nation would be revived again, as indeed came to pass.  AB02587

The 'heaven' of the material world is something else. It is the sky overhead in which the clouds move. This heaven is 'up' to us and 'down' to those upon the other side of the earth, while vice versa their material heaven is 'down' to us. In the Heavenly Book it is said that the 'stars will fall from heaven.' Where will they fall? Science proves that nearly all the stars are larger than the earth. Where will they find room to fall?   ABU1278

O God! O Son, thou hast asked about the hidden meaning of His blessed verse By the Fig and the Olive. As thou well knowest, the most eminent commentators have interpreted this verse by stating that the fig cometh from a goodly tree, that it hath numerous benefits beyond its exceeding sweetness, and doth in particular constitute an efficacious and wholesome medicine against chest diseases, and that it is therefore an excellent fruit.  AB00447

He Who was hidden in God's knowledge and recorded in His Books hath appeared, and through Him every sealed matter hath been revealed and every hidden secret uncovered. This is that Mighty News mentioned and recorded in all the Books, of whose time of appearance none save God Himself is aware. This is that Hour of which Christ spoke when He said: But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but the Father only.  BH00008

If we say that according to the text of the Bible, "God hardened Pharaoh's heart" that he might not believe in Moses, this signifies that, verily, He did not soften his heart. And when we wish to say that God hath not guided a certain one of His servants, this would be interpreted (by people) that God led him astray. The darkness spoken of in the Bible as being created by God, signifieth that, verily, God hath not caused light to shine.   AB07049

And if thou seekest the meaning in the station of meanings, it is God's bestowal upon Moses in causing him to speak the reality of what God placed in his staff, that he might fulfill his right according to what his soul accepted. This is God's grace to whomever dwelleth in that station, as God indicated in the sacred tradition: If he is silent, I begin with him. This is the highest rank of manifestations in the world of names and attributes.  BB00173

Within the verses are all the verses of the beginning, if ye be of them that are assured of God and His signs. Say: Within the verses are all the verses of the end, if ye be of them that believe in Muhammad, the Unlettered Prophet. Say: Within the verses are the outward verses, if ye be of them that are God's witnesses from His presence. Say: Within the verses are the inward verses, if ye be of them that are assured of the Gates of Guidance.  BB00004

Yet today, it is not permitted for you to recite as We have taught you, for that has its appointed time which God shall manifest if He willeth. And if you were to recite it, God would not accept it from you, for those words from the Qur'an are now as martyrs, like the souls of the Imams, peace be upon them. Therefore the letter lam was placed first and the word is lowered, but it shall be elevated when they return to God - peace be upon them.  BB00089

Regarding the statement: I am the Rose of Sharon and the Lily of the Valley, by this is meant, that just as the sweet fragrances of the rose and lily are diffused with the utmost delicacy, and perfume the nostrils, so also the Divine Teachings of God affect the intellects, uplift the souls and inspire the spirits with boundless love and kindness. For the sweet fragrances of the Heavenly Flowers are the Heavenly teaching, behests and exhortations.  AB03556

Read the prayer of Unity and let the Word of God be made manifest - blessed be the name of thy Lord, the Lord of Glory and Honor. Then recite the Prayer of Qaf, for it pertaineth to His station. Verily the Resurrection hath come to pass, and that Day with thy Lord is as fifty thousand years. Then read the Prayer of Light and pause at the All-Compelling, then the Dawn Prayer and pause at the Everlasting Sovereign - 1150 aspirations - and add to it one.  BB00289

And as for the word of the speaker that he was not established by the verses - recite unto thee the Book of thy Lord according to that which was recited unto thee in the Sacred Mosque before thou present thyself in the sanctuary of Husayn, and call upon God thy Lord, Creator of all things, there is no God but He, that He may send down punishment upon those who forge lies against God and dispute concerning His signs without knowledge or a guarding Book.  BB00019

You had inquired about the "Chief" mentioned in the blessed verse - this refers to 'Ali Pasha who caused the transfer from Iraq to the borders of Rumelia and from there to the prison of 'Akka. The meaning of Mount Tina and Zita refers to two sacred mountains which are called "Fig and Olive" in the Qur'an and are located in the Holy Land. As for the letters K and Z which appear at the beginning of one of the blessed Tablets, they refer to the name Kazim.  AB00235

'The Prince of this world does not receive any bounty from me, is not dependent upon me.' Chap. 16:7-12, means that another will come and bring to you the knowledge which you now cannot bear to hear. The thirteenth verse of the same chapter proves that it is to be man, for the spirit has no ears through which to hear. The fifteenth verse of the same chapter means that He receives light from the same source, from the same bounty which they share in common.  ABU0560

Regarding verse 14 of Chapter 17 of John about which you had inquired, 'Abdu'l-Baha is one of God's lambs, but the Lord of the Day of Manifestation is Baha'u'llah. As for verse 12 in Chapter 3 of the Divine John which states I will write upon him my new name, this does not refer to the Greatest Name ring, but rather refers to the one who is the pillar of the mighty Temple, and the divine name written upon him means that he is the manifestation of divine bounty.  AB04048

In the Book of Zechariah it is stated: "And it shall be one day which shall be known to the Lord, not day, nor night." Likewise Isaiah saith: "The sun shall be no more thy light by day; neither for brightness shall the moon give light unto thee: but the Lord shall be unto thee an everlasting light." He hath mentioned the station of the Day of God, as hath been revealed in the Tablets, that this divine Day is illumined by the light of His resplendent countenance.  BH00243

And that Being whose verses were and ever shall be decisive says that all the Bayan is but a leaf among the leaves of Paradise before that Essence of Being. And in another instance He says that whatsoever was revealed in the Bayan is dependent upon His command and contingent upon His leave and will. And in yet another instance, addressing the people of the Bayan, He says: Beware lest ye be deprived, by the Bayan and what was revealed therein, of the Promised One.  BH00004

When the oppression and afflictions that are to befall mankind will have come to pass, then shall the sun be withheld from shining, the moon from giving light, the stars of heaven shall fall upon the earth, and the pillars of the earth shall quake. At that time, the signs of the Son of man shall appear in heaven, that is, the promised Beauty and Substance of life shall, when these signs have appeared, step forth out of the realm of the invisible into the visible world.  BH00002

Interpretation is not as people imagine, for they think interpretation means extracting a meaning from among meanings from verses and traditions in whatever way, whether it corresponds to reality in all aspects or in some aspects. This is the very error, for interpretation refers to the reality of the meaning that the speaker truly intended, and this appears through the explanation of the One Who makes clear, and reality appears in complete correspondence in all aspects.  AB00028

Consider the blessed verse, so that the meaning of the words There is neither a thing green nor sere but it is noted in the unerring Book may be imprinted upon the tablet of thy heart. Notwithstanding, a multitude bear him allegiance. They have rejected the Moses of knowledge and justice, and clung to the Samiri of ignorance. They have turned away their eyes from the Daystar of truth which shineth in the divine and everlasting heaven, and have utterly ignored its splendor.  BH00002

And make not difficult for thyself the truth that in a thousand months there must needs be found a number of Nights of Power. How can mortal mind conceive of those months which God Himself hath equated therewith? Indeed, it referreth to the duration of Umayyad rule - may God's curse rest upon them throughout all ages and eternities - wherein no Night of Power was to be found, for the basis of equivalence is a thousand months from which the Night of Power hath been withdrawn.  BB00068

In visiting the honored Ka'bah, by divine decree one must don the pilgrim garb. The people of interpretation say this is an allegory meaning that when all peoples, each with their own customs and manners, path and way, belief and religion, turn toward the center of reality, they must shed all these thoughts and occupations and different religions and nations' laws and rules, and put on the single-colored garment of sanctification - this is what the pilgrim garment symbolizes.  AB01502

Therefore, they must turn their faces to the Point of Adoration of the celestial Concourse, hold fast to the most sublime Station, and pray and supplicate that they may be freed from the doubts of misinterpretation. This is the way of 'Abdu'l-Baha. This is the religion of 'Abdu'l-Baha. This is the path of 'Abdu'l-Baha. Whoever cherisheth the love of Baha, let him choose this straight path. Whoever abandoneth this path, verily, he is of them who are shut out as by a veil from Him.  AB11886

And have ye not heard "On the day when the heaven shall be cleft asunder by clouds" - these are the clouds whereby the heavens of existence were rent asunder, if ye be of those who understand the signs of God. And it was revealed "On the day when the heaven shall bring a manifest smoke" - this is the smoke that hath blinded your eyes, whereby ye recognized not your Lord and turned away from the Beauty of divine holiness and glory, though ye were promised this in preserved scrolls.  BH00936

In the dogmatic teachings about the Qur'an, called ?adith, it says: "Everything that is in the Qur'an lies in the first Surih, the Fati?ah, and everything that is in the Fati?ah is to be found in the first sentence: Bismi'llahi'r-Rahmani'r-Rahim = in the Name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, and everything in this first sentence is contained in the "bi" (its initial letter), and everything contained in the "bi" is to be found in the point under the "bi" (its smallest part)."   ABU0227

Christ said, "This generation (meaning dispensation) shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled." (St. Luke 21:32.) And in Ex. 20:5 it stated that the sins of the fathers will be visited upon the children unto the third and fourth generation. Does this word generation also mean a cycle, or dispensation? Answer: No, for the word generation has a different meaning in different places. Christ referred to the Christ Dispensation, or Cycle, and the other refers to the physical generation.  ABU2202

The Name of Christ in numbers has no relation to the name of Baha'o'llah, because the Name of the Messiah of the Jews is a Hebrew name, and in order to compare them we must take both names in Arabic. His name was Jesus. The Name of GOD which Christ gave to His disciples was the NAME of the Kingdom of Baha'o'llah. It was the same spiritually, but it was a NAME which was never pronounced. All the Bible was written for Baha'o'llah, Everywhere "The Lord of Hosts" refers to the Manifestation.   ABU0872

For example, in the Gospel His Holiness Christ, praising Peter, said "that thou art Peter and upon this rock I will build my church.' Now, this was an obscure utterance and in regard to his successorship there was a difference. But if His Holiness Christ had said "that this opinion thou hast at present will be the foundation, then the Pope would not say today "Here is the center - all of them must obey me," because that was the aim of Christ: that your opinion is not right - that was all.   ABU0703

Among these intelligible realities are knowledge and intellect, and when one wishes to explain these, one must needs place them in the mold of some sensible form so that the listener may grasp their meaning. Thus one says they are light--not the light perceived by sight, but a true light perceived by insight. The purpose of such similitude is that listeners might comprehend and become aware of the intellectual concept and the reality abstracted from forms and images in the world of meaning.  AB00258

In the blessed verse of the Qur'an it is said: And there shall be a blast on the trumpet, and all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth shall swoon. It is a day wherein all who are in the heavens and on earth were struck unconscious--that is to say, in the eyes of them that are endowed with insight, they were truly dumbfounded, and the unconscious person--that is, one deprived of eternal life--perceives nothing. However, the person of insight becomes aware of the reality of the Cause.  ABU0345

As regards the story of Adam, peace be upon him, its outward meaning is not what is intended, but rather its inner significances. The tree is none other than the Tree of Life, firmly rooted, with branches extending to the vault of heaven, ever-bearing fruit and breaking the fast of every spiritual wayfarer. The prohibition given to Adam was not a legislative or prescriptive prohibition, but rather an existential one - like the prevention of an embryo from assuming the conditions of a mature adult.  AB00134

Consider how in the days of the Interlocutor (Moses), there were twelve holy beings who were leaders of the twelve tribes; and likewise in the dispensation of the Spirit (Christ), note that there were twelve Apostles gathered within the sheltering shade of that supernal Light, and from those splendid dawning-points the Sun of Truth shone forth even as the sun in the sky. Again, in the days of Muhammad, observe that there were twelve dawning-points of holiness, the manifestors of God's confirming help.   AB00342

Consider what was written in the Book concerning the signs of resurrection, gathering, raising of the dead, the Hour, the Calamity, the Inevitable Event, the Cry, the Trump, Paradise and Fire, and the like, and likewise concerning the Qa'im and His appearance - not a letter thereof did they comprehend, and from its purpose they remained wholly veiled. That which was revealed in God's Book, the Furqan, is truth wherein there is no doubt, and none hath understood its true meaning save whom thy Lord willeth.   BH01327

Their Temple, or body, holds the station of the shell, while their spirits are like the pearl within. The body is like the rind, the spirit is like the kernel. The body is like the glass chimney on the lamp while the spirit is the light within. The glass is dark, and does not give light of itself, but inasmuch as the light has illuminated it, it has become an instrument of illumination. Angels referred to have earthly bodies, yet their characteristics are Heavenly, therefore they are interpreted as Angels.  ABU1401

Muhammad, the Seal of the Prophets, and the most distinguished of God's chosen Ones, hath likened the Dispensation of the Qur'an unto heaven, by reason of its loftiness, its paramount influence, its majesty, and the fact that it comprehendeth all religions. And as the sun and moon constitute the brightest and most prominent luminaries in the heavens, similarly in the heaven of the religion of God two shining orbs have been ordained--fasting and prayer. 'Islam is heaven; fasting is its sun, prayer, its moon.'  BH00002

The word "countenance" has several meanings, among them the meaning of "good-pleasure," as God the Exalted has said "desiring His countenance," and likewise "We feed you only for the countenance of God," that is, His good-pleasure. Among them also is "countenance" in the sense of "essence," as God the Exalted has said "All things perish save His countenance." And among them is "countenance" in the sense of "manifestation," as God the Exalted has said "Whithersoever ye turn, there is the countenance of God."  AB00058

Indeed, in my own writings there doth exist a passage stating that the Sun of Truth rose from the zodiac sign of Aries and is now shining resplendent in the sign of Leo. This servant is still present! As thou hast said, they must address their questions to me rather than give interpretations according to their own vain imaginings and personal motives. In making such a statement, I had in mind no one else except the Bab and Baha'u'llah, the character of whose Revelations it had been my purpose to elucidate.   AB00195

Know that the meaning of the fish in this verse is worldly concerns and material nature which exist in the visible realm. That is, when they reached that sea, they forgot all they had in the worlds of creation, and it returned to its source, origin and fountainhead - and this is an inevitable truth. For when man becomes immersed in the sea of recognition and reaches the depths of the ocean of reality in the realm of eternity, he casts off the two sandals of worldly concerns and carnal desires, if ye but knew.  AB00009

None knows the interpretation of God's utterance save His Own Self, the All-Pervading, and those who have attained unto the lights of inner meaning and exposition from His presence. These understand according to their capacity and station. Thus hath the All-Merciful decreed. Yet most among the people comprehend not. This much is evident: that which is intended by God is manifest and evident in the Tablets with utmost clarity and lucidity. None hath been, nor ever shall be, commanded to interpret the divine words.  BH00199

As for the meaning of the Hidden Words which indicate that man must abandon himself, the intention is that he must abandon his carnal desires, human sensations, and personal interests... As for the meaning of the Hidden Word which speaks of the covenant made on Mount Paran, the intention is that with respect to the Truth, past, future and present are one time... As for the phrase which indicates that man must detach himself from self, its intention is also that he should not seek anything for himself in this ephemeral world   AB03257

In unfolding these mysteries, We have, in Our former Tablets which were addressed to a friend in the melodious language of Hijaz, cited a few of the verses revealed unto the Prophets of old. And now, responding to your request, We again shall cite, in these pages, those same verses, uttered this time in the wondrous accents of 'Iraq, that haply the sore athirst in the wilds of remoteness may attain unto the ocean of the divine presence, and they that languish in the wastes of separation be led unto the home of eternal reunion.  BH00002

If you consider it from the perspective of the Bayan, it has no proof except itself. The letters of multiplicity within it only tell of its station of unity. There is no ruling regarding the meanings of its words except through the evidence of its reality. There is no connection between it and other examples prepared at its lowest rank, which is its outward aspect. There is no concealment of its inner meaning, yet its inner meaning is beyond its outer meaning. Thus has God established it through the proof of wisdom for itself.  BB00345

That is, Satan represents the forces of nature, which in the world of reality is interpreted as the commanding self. Thus the Gospel's intent is that the natural world guided Christ toward conformity, so that through these natural forces He might gain complete mastery in the natural world. The high mountain was the supreme pinnacle of the natural world - in that station it displayed before His sight the ornaments and conditions of the natural world. Only His radiance and spirituality resisted nature and rejected its promptings.   AB00166

As to what thou hast asked concerning the meaning of the tradition of Al-Mufaddal - God is my witness that I am unable to expound even a single letter thereof as it truly is, for it speaketh of thy Ancient Lord, and the Great Qur'an hath pronounced His excellence, saying "If the sea..." However, since God hath placed in all things the signs of all things, and hath placed what was in my pen as a trust in my words, I shall mention unto thee, for the exposition of a passage from the verses of thy Great Lord, whatsoever thy Lord willeth.   BB00140

O trusted one! When the breezes of love waft from the right of the Tree of Sinai, and turn thee to the right and to the left, then take refuge in the cave of light by God's leave, the Most High - and He is God, powerful over all things. And if thou hast witnessed and known all that We have explained to thee, then know that We intend yet another interpretation. Know that by "food" is meant knowledge itself - all knowledge - and by "Israel" the Primal Point, and by "Children of Israel" him whom God made a proof unto mankind in those days  BH00267

By quoting to them several verses of the Koran I established the fact that there are three kinds of Words; "Finite Words,' 'Creational Words' and 'Spiritual Words'. The Conversations of men being the result of the combination of sound and vowels are temporary, having no permanent effect in shaping the destiny of mankind or reforming the morals of the people. These are 'Finite Words.' 'The Creational Words" are the laws of the Prophets which are likewise changed from Dispensation to Dispensation according to the exigencies of the time.   ABU1390

If we were to take this account according to the literal meaning of the words, as indicated by their common usage, it would indeed be exceedingly strange, and human minds would be excused from accepting, affirming, or imagining it. For such elaborate arrangements and details, such statements and reproaches, would be implausible even coming from an intelligent person, let alone from the Divinity Himself, Who has arranged this infinite universe in the most perfect form and arrayed its countless beings in the utmost order, soundness, and perfection.   AB00100

Thou knowest the import of what the questioner desired regarding the interpretation of the verse through enumerated proofs. I bear Thee witness that I intended not its outer meaning save for its inner truth, and none can tell of its essence save through its very being, and it hath no proof save its own reality, and no attribute save its own identity. Whoso knoweth it through proof other than its essence hath veiled himself from its truth, and whoso claimeth authority over it without establishing its divine unity hath associated partners with its Lord.   BB00194

Consider how many among the followers of Jesus were promised the advent of Ahmad (peace be upon Him and His family), yet how few were guided after His appearance. Today, that same affliction encompasses all, and all are veiled. Though they imagine they act for God, their actions are for other than God. No soul recognizes creation between themselves and God, yet wishes to affirm faith, and in their state of ignorance becomes certain of its validity, as God has revealed: "And they denied them, though their souls acknowledged them, for spite and arrogance."   BB00662

The Kingdom of utterance is seen to have neither beginning nor end. In one station they have taken the Primal Will itself, which is the Manifestation and Source of God's Command, glorious is His majesty, as the first, and the blessed Fatima - God's blessings be upon her - as the third; by this reckoning the Eighth Imam becomes the tenth. And in another station, the Essential Being of Eternity, which is the station of there is no God but Him, is mentioned as first and the Point of the Furqan as second; by this reckoning the Eighth Imam becomes the eleventh.  BH00164

This is a translation of the blessed verse which states We are nearer to him than his life-vein. Indeed, it hath been well expressed in the Persian tongue. At this moment one is partaking of the wine of the mercy of the Lord of all worlds, for mention of it hath flowed from the Tongue of Grandeur. Since God hath declared I am nearer to man than his jugular vein, therefore one sayeth that although the effulgence of the Beloved is nearer to me than my jugular vein, yet despite my certitude of this station and my acknowledgment of this rank, I am far from Him.  BH00245

You had previously inquired about two matters which remained unanswered. The first concerns the meaning of His exalted words regarding the sixth and the sixth of the sixth. This is what was revealed in response: By this We intended the proportions of humors in balanced bodies according to the people's doctrine. Know that phlegm is one-sixth of blood, and bile is one-sixth of phlegm. This is the meaning of what We mentioned, and black bile is three-quarters of yellow bile. We have another explanation, for verily thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH01307

In the first chapter of the Gospel of St. John the opening words are as follows: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." Up to this time the explanation of it is this. In the beginning was the Word--this, they say, means: "In the beginning was the Son, the Lamb of God, Christ." The Word was with God means: "Christ was with God." The Word was God means: "The Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one." This is what they say regarding the Trinity, according to all the theologians and metaphysicians in the world of Christendom.   ABU1345

Finally he said the verse was subject also to a different interpretation, and he explained it in such a way as to mean a decisive command... You are plainly wrong in your interpretation of both verses. For by ambiguous verses is meant those whose literal sense is not in accord with the fundamental principles of the Law. Such verses are therefore liable to an allegorical interpretation. By perspicuous verses is meant those whose literal sense is plainly in accord with the general laws and fundamental rules of Faith. Such verses are therefore to be taken literally.   ABU0134

And thou, O servant, look to the days gone by and centuries past, when at the appearance of every Prophet, the seers shut their eyes and clung to the words of those beneath them who claimed knowledge yet were, in God's sight, the most ignorant of all created things, past and future. Thus were they debarred from entering the paths branching from the Most Great Ocean and from the streams flowing from that most glorious and most mighty Sea. They remained heedless of beholding the lights of the Kingdom and observing the rising of the Sun of Truth in the realm of mortality.  AB00021

The secret of inversion for the symbol of the chief has appeared. Blessed is he whom God hath aided to acknowledge the Six which were raised up by this Alif - verily he is of the sincere ones. These passages were presented before the Most Holy and Most Exalted Presence. This is what the Mother Book hath spoken: O Lion! O thou who gazest upon the One, the Single! These expressions are found in a letter which Sheikh Ahmad Ahsa'i - upon him be the Glory of God - wrote to someone, and all its explicit statements, allusions, intimations and symbols refer to the Manifestation Himself.  BH01252

Likewise the address of the angels to the people of Galilee, "That this Christ will return in the same way and that He will descend from heaven," is a spiritual address. For when Christ appeared, He came from heaven, although He was outwardly born from the womb of Mary. For He said: "No man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven." He said: "I came down from heaven and likewise will go to heaven." By "heaven" is not meant this infinite phenomenal space, but "heaven" signifies the word of the divine kingdom which is the supreme station and seat of the Sun of Truth.   AB01126

It is even explicitly mentioned in the Qur'an, but faithless interpreters, despite the explicit text, have not apprehended the truth. As it is said, "And among His Signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth and the living creatures [dabih] that He has scattered through them" (Qur'an 42:29). He says that among the perspicuous signs of God are these heavens and earth and the living and moving beings that have been created in these heavens and earth. See how explicitly He says that in the heavens there are living creatures. Dabih means a living creature that moves of its own volition.  AB01847

As for the verse in the Furqan "on a Day the measure whereof is fifty thousand years," the meaning is that momentous matters, universal events, and infinite occurrences whose manifestation and execution would require fifty thousand years will be accomplished in that single Day. This is why in another passage He speaks of "in the twinkling of an eye." The intention of this verse refers to the Day of the manifestation of the Abha Beauty, which is equivalent to fifty thousand years, not actually fifty thousand years - just as it is said that one hour of separation is equal to a thousand years.   AB00324

For the time being the proposed delegates to such a Conference must lay aside the discussion of dogmas and Apostles' Creeds. The question of the Validity of the Creed and the inviolable authority of Dogmas is a secondary problem. One sect may hold fast to the Apostles Creeds as the final Will of God to man, adhering dogmatically that the door of further revelation and light is definitely closed before the face of mankind. Another sect may assert just as assuredly but with more reason and logic, the right of liberal interpretation according to the ever-evolving and progressive conscience of man.  ABU1549

Hearken, and I will show you the meaning thereof. Although He came from Nazareth, which was a known place, He also came from Heaven. His body was born of Mary, but His Spirit came from Heaven. The sword He carried was the sword of His tongue, with which He divided the good from the evil, the true from the false, the faithful from the unfaithful, and the light from the darkness. His Word was indeed a sharp sword! The Throne upon which He sat is the Eternal Throne from which Christ reigns for ever, a heavenly throne, not an earthly one, for the things of earth pass away but heavenly things pass not away.  ABU0473

This is the purpose underlying the symbolic words of the Manifestations of God. Consequently, the application of the terms sun and moon to the things already mentioned hath been demonstrated and justified by the text of the sacred verses and the recorded traditions. Hence, it is clear and manifest that by the words the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven is intended the waywardness of the divines, and the annulment of laws firmly established by divine Revelation, all of which, in symbolic language, have been foreshadowed by the Manifestation of God.  BH00002

Now, they asked John the Baptist, "Art thou Elias?" and he answered, "I am not," whereas it is said in the Gospel that John was the promised Elias himself, and Christ clearly stated this as well. If John was Elias, why did he say he was not, and if he was not Elias, why did Christ say he was? The reason is that we consider here not the individuality of the person but the reality of his perfections--that is to say, the very same perfections that Elias possessed were realized in John the Baptist as well. Thus John the Baptist was the promised Elias. What is being considered here is not the essence but the attributes.  AB00419

Let us turn to the matter at hand. You inquired about the verse And there is none of the People of the Book but must believe in him before his death. Some commentators have referred the pronoun in his death to Christ, saying that in His second coming, when He descends from heaven, all People of the Book will believe in and be assured of Him, and He will pass away afterward. Others have referred the pronoun to the People of the Book, saying that the truth of Christ will be revealed to all People of the Book at their last breath during the agony of death. But both these interpretations are weak and contrary to reality.  AB03385

At the time of Christ, or at least among those who heard him, there was, as I have said, little or no discussion of difficult questions -men were not accustomed to abstract thinking; therefore the symbols and metaphors of his teachings were not interpreted by them - they were literally accepted as the letter of the Law. It is not meant that the greatest truths were not contained in Christ's teaching, but that his teachings were to a great extent misunderstood and the truths lost. Those who were the fathers of the Christian religion gave to the world his literal speech, without explaining the meaning which it was intended to convey.  ABU1462

To begin, let it be understood that the Prophets or Messengers of God are holy souls sent by Him to lead us to a knowledge of God and establish laws and ordinances for the people, which will tend to their development both spiritually and materially, in order that they might reach the intended aim; but their revelation or message has ever been given in accordance with the limitations or receptivity of the people of their time or age, for as long as the understanding of men has not reached the point of maturity the Divine Manifestations give explanations in illuminated verses expressing their works in a sealed, hidden and symbolical way.  ABU0217

The Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - hath revealed the essence of the entire Bayan in the guise of a single word. His exalted Word declares: I have written an essence concerning His remembrance, and it is this: He shall not be known by My allusions, nor by what hath been mentioned in the Bayan. Nay, by His glory, that word is, in God's estimation, greater than the worship of all who are on earth, for the essence of all worship leadeth unto this. Therefore, as thou hast known God, know Him Who shall be made manifest, for He is too glorious and exalted to be known except through Himself or to be described by the allusions of His creation.  BH00033

Regarding the Tablet you had inquired about: That is the Tablet which the Bab wrote to be presented in the school of "Him Whom God shall make manifest." The Babis have made this a means of confusing minds, saying that "Him Whom God shall make manifest" must be a child so that this petition could be presented in school. Therefore, since the Blessed Beauty was not a child, He is not "Him Whom God shall make manifest." The Blessed Beauty states in the Book that the school of "Him Whom God shall make manifest" is not a children's school or a place for ignorant pupils - it is the school of meanings and exposition that is sanctified above the comprehension of all possibility.   AB00694

Know thou that this Surah hath a meaning that none can comprehend save God, for He revealed it through His knowledge, and none of His creation can comprehend its station. Verily, He is the Mighty, the Most High. The One Who revealeth in the station of origination is the One Who revealeth in the station of invention, whereunto pointeth God's word on the night of ascension, addressing His Beloved: Thou art the Beloved and Thou art the Beloved One. And when thou lookest upon the letters of this Surah and that station, thou seest the letter Ha as the spirit of the Surah and its foundation, and upon it turns the mill of manifestations and names and attributes from its meanings.  BB00105

And if thou desirest to become aware of the mystery of the verse even as I have understood it, then extend the compass of thy knowledge and make the qiblih whereto thou wert turned the very manifestation of the letter Kaf in the Divine Will. It descendeth by God's leave and becometh in heaven for the white pillar the Much-frequented House; then on earth for the yellow pillar; then for the green pillar the Kaaba, the Sacred House of God; then for the red pillar on the day which God hath willed, the tomb of Husayn - peace be upon him. And all this is the sanctuary of Muhammad - peace be upon him - until the Day of Resurrection, which changeth not throughout the ages of ages and the eternity of manifestation.  BB00006

And in the prophecies from Muhammad in the Book of Revelation of John, in chapter twelve, verse one, He says: And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. This woman, in John's terminology, means the Law of God, and in some instances he interprets the Law of God as the Holy City of Jerusalem. He says clothed with the sun - the sun is the symbol of the Persian government, and the moon is the symbol of the Ottoman government, meaning that Law of God under whose shadow are these two governments of the sun and moon. Then He says and upon her head a crown of twelve stars - a crown of twelve stars who are the pure Imams.  AB00038

Moreover, most of the miracles attributed to the Prophets have an inner meaning. For instance, it is recorded in the Gospel that upon the martyrdom of Christ darkness fell, the earth shook, the veil of the Temple was rent in twain, and the dead arose from their graves. If this had outwardly come to pass it would have been a stupendous thing. Such an event would have undoubtedly been recorded in the chronicles of the time and would have seized with dismay the hearts of men. At the very least the soldiers would have removed Christ from the cross or would have fled. But as these events have not been recorded in any history it is evident that they are not to be understood literally but according to their inner meaning.   AB00030

Now I shall point to the meaning of a single question, that it may serve as a gateway to understanding all questions and ambiguous verses. There is no doubt that God knows all things, and His exalted words "What is that in thy right hand, O Moses?" represent the ultimate station of response, intended only to demonstrate his capacity for the existence of His revelation unto him, like His words "Am I not your Lord?" And that is the ultimate secret of reality. As for the outward path of understanding its meaning, there are as many approaches as there are created souls, but it encompasses a series of universal stations, which are eight in number, as the two scholars (may God sanctify them) have explained in all their degrees.   BB00165

Consider the symbolical meanings of the Words and teachings of Christ. He said, "I am the living bread which came down from heaven; if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever." When the Jews heard this, they took it literally and failed to understand the significance of His meaning and teaching. The spiritual truth which Christ wished to convey to them was that the reality of Divinity within Him was like a blessing which had come down from heaven and that he who partook of this blessing should never die. That is to say, bread was the symbol of the perfections which had descended upon Him from God, and he who ate of this bread, or endowed himself with the perfections of Christ, would undoubtedly attain to everlasting life.   ABU0523

In any case, the word 'ra'na' appears as an adjective for 'garden' in the people's speech, including in Sa'di's Gulistan where he says: We arranged this graceful garden and lofty grove like paradise upon paradise. 'Ra'n' refers to a mountain's peak, as the lexicon states: ar-ra'n is the nose that protrudes from the mountain, and the tall mountain. 'Hadiqiy-i-ra'na' means a garden situated on a mountain's peak, just as 'hadiqiy-i-batha' means a garden situated in the desert or on level ground. Hence, Basra was given the title 'ra'na' because, like a mountain's peak, it extends into the sea. The lexicon states: ar-ra'na is Basra, likened to the mountain's peak. In any case, in Arabic speech, 'ra'na' rarely appears as an adjective for garden.  AB11842

And regarding what was asked about the tradition which states: "Knowledge is twenty-seven letters. All that the Messengers have brought is two letters, and until today people have not known more than these two letters. When our Qa'im arises, He will bring forth the remaining twenty-five letters" - after being presented before the Most Holy Court, these exalted words shone forth from the Dawning-Place of Divine Knowledge - exalted be His glory: "The intended meaning of the remaining letters refers to the station of the Blessed All-Embracing Word. Whosoever attains unto that Word will find himself independent of all the words of the world, and whosoever drinks of the hidden Kawthar contained therein will never be seized by the thirst and yearning of self and desire."   BH00485

Regarding your question about the transfiguration of Christ, Moses and Elias and the Heavenly Father on Mount Tabor mentioned in the Gospel: This matter was discovered by the insight of the disciples and was therefore a hidden mystery. This was among their spiritual discoveries. Otherwise, if physical discovery was meant, meaning that the outward eye witnessed that transfiguration, why did not others who were on that mountain and wilderness observe it, and why did Christ command it be kept secret? It is clear and evident that these were spiritual discoveries and heavenly manifestations. This is why Christ said to keep it concealed until the Son of man be risen from the dead, meaning until the Cause of God be exalted, the Word of God penetrate, and the reality of Christ arise.  AB01693

As to the question of the mystery of the inverting of the symbol of leadership: Inverting has two meanings - one means return, and the other means turning upside down. It is said that on the Day of the Promised One's appearance, all things of the previous Dispensation will return - meaning that whatever occurred in the previous Dispensation, such as the arising of the Resurrection, the coming of a new Book, the revelation of a new Law, the rolling up of the heaven of religions, likewise will exactly return in the subsequent Dispensation. This is why the Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon Him, said Step by step, exactly the same. And the second meaning, which is turning upside down, means that on the Promised Day He will make your highest become lowest, and your lowest become highest.  AB08024

Know then that the interpreters who have interpreted the Qur'an were of two kinds: those who neglected the outward meaning and interpreted it according to the inner meaning, and those who interpreted it according to the outward meaning and neglected the inner meaning. Were We to mention their statements and explanations, such weariness would overtake thee as would prevent thee from reading what We have written for thee. We have therefore omitted their mention in this place. Blessed are they who have taken both the outward and the inner meanings - these are servants who have believed in the all-embracing Word. Know that whoso taketh the outward meaning and abandoneth the inner is ignorant, and whoso taketh the inner meaning and abandoneth the outward is heedless, and whoso taketh the inner meaning while maintaining the outward meaning is a perfect sage.  BH00271

Now I shall disclose one of the divine mysteries, purely for the sake of God and in quest of His good-pleasure, that perchance ye may step forth from the veils of fancy and enter the realm of eternity. In the Qur'an, concerning the interpretation of the revealed verses, He saith: None knoweth its interpretation save God and those who are well-grounded in knowledge. The divines have interpreted those who are well-grounded as referring to the letters of the Qur'an. However, the Primal Point - may the spirit of all who dwell in the realms of holiness be sacrificed for Him - hath said: If an ant desired to comprehend the Qur'an and its inner meaning, and the inner meaning of its inner meaning, according to the measure of its own eye, verily it would be able, for the mystery of divine lordship and the revelation of eternal holiness hath permeated all things.  BH11688

The Book of Isaiah announces that the Messiah will conquer the East and the West, that all the nations of the earth will gather under His shadow, that His kingdom will be established, that He will come from an unknown place, that the sinners will be judged, and that justice will prevail to such a degree that the wolf and the lamb, the leopard and the kid, the sucking child and the asp will all gather at one spring, in one meadow, and in one abode. The first coming was also subject to these conditions, although none of them came to pass outwardly. Thus the Jews cavilled at Christ, and--God forbid!--called Him a monster, regarded Him as the destroyer of the edifice of God and the breaker of the Sabbath and the Law, and sentenced Him to death. Now, each and every one of these conditions had an inner meaning, but the Jews failed to understand and were therefore veiled from recognizing Him.  AB00570

Regarding your question about verse 26 of Daniel chapter 9 - although verse 24's meaning became clear, verse 26's reality remained unknown. O kind friend, know that four royal decrees were issued for the restoration and building of Jerusalem. The first was Cyrus's decree issued in 536 BC (Book of Ezra chapter 1). The second decree was from Darius in 519 BC (Ezra chapter 6). The third decree was from Artaxerxes in the seventh year of his reign, 457 BC (Ezra chapter 7). The fourth decree was from Artaxerxes in 444 BC (Nehemiah chapter 2). Daniel's reference is to the third decree. Christ lived thirty-three years. When we add this number 33 to 457, it equals 490, which completes the seventy weeks. Additionally, in verse 25 it mentions seven weeks and sixty-two weeks, and then the final week completing the seventy, in the midst of which the sacrifice was fulfilled through Christ's martyrdom.   AB00092

Concerning the question about the Kitab-i-Iqan, known by the name of His Honor the Uncle, upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty of God, wherein fear is mentioned regarding His Holiness Moses, while in the Kitab-i-Badi' fear is denied for the Prophets - His exalted Word: O Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin, that which was revealed in the Kitab-i-Iqan was mentioned regarding divine tests, in consideration of removing people's delusions in this Dispensation. Therefore, what was revealed in the Qur'an was mentioned as the exact blessed verse without interpretation or explanation. Moreover, it is clear from the implicit meaning of the verse that what Moses, upon Him be the Glory of God, said was to silence the opponent, for they said to Him Thou art he who committed murder and fled. His Holiness, to confound them, mentioned the meaning of the blessed verse and confirmed: I am indeed he, but I have been adorned with the robe of forgiveness and honored with Messengership.  BH03105

The disciples had taken many meals from the hand of Christ; why then did the last supper come to be distinguished? It is thus evident that by the heavenly bread is meant not this material bread but the divine sustenance of the spiritual body of Christ, that is, the divine grace and the heavenly perfections of which His disciples partook and with which they were filled. Consider likewise that when Christ blessed the bread and gave it to His disciples, saying, this is My body, He was visibly and distinctly present with them in person and in body, and was not transformed into bread and wine. Had He become the bread and wine itself, He could not have remained distinctly present before them in body and in person. It is therefore clear that the bread and wine were symbols, meaning: My grace and My perfections have been given you, and since you have partaken of this manifold grace, you have attained everlasting life and received your share and portion of the heavenly sustenance.  AB00329

The movement of the Supreme Pen in the fields of Tablets is witnessed in different styles. In one instance, the matter is revealed with brevity - this expression is known as 'easily impossible' - and in another instance, both modes are combined. Therefore in the Surih of Kings the aforementioned verses were mentioned concisely, and this is most eloquent. "When it is asked, 'For what crime have they imprisoned Him?' they answer, 'Indeed, they desired to renew religion'" - meaning that if it be asked for what crime and transgression have ye imprisoned the Luminary of creation, they say these people desired to renew religion. From the Most Exalted Source the answer was revealed: If ye choose the ancient and it is preferred by you, why then did ye abandon the previous religions? At the beginning of this verse, "Say" is implied, so it would read "Say: If the ancient is what is chosen..." etc. And since the meaning of "Say" is understood from the utterance of the All-Merciful, it was therefore not mentioned, and this is the manifestation of perfect eloquence.   BH00972
