
You have intuition. You must follow it always, because when you follow it, it increases and becomes more clear. Only a few have this gift. It is like the tinkling of bells, a sixth sense, like the voice of God speaking. The more one follows intuition, the more it increases. ABU3234

The woman's intuition is more correct; she is more receptive and her intelligence is quicker. Her intuition enabled her to grasp the spiritual fact.   ABU2288

These people, who are called 'Followers of the inner light', attain to a superlative degree of power, and are entirely freed from blind dogmas and imitations. Men rely on the statements of these people: by themselves -- within themselves -- they solve all mysteries.  ABU0395

The inspiration of God is a revelation to the heart: but temptations of the devil are also addressed to the heart. If to the hearts of men is revealed a command,- "Do ye thus and thus,"- how are we to know whether this is a revelation from God, or a temptation from Satan?  ABU0648

As to the difficulty concerning the blessed verse that my heart may be at rest, it is clear and evident that faith consists in acceptance, and assurance is the attainment of the reality of manifestation, so that the heart, which is a heavenly mirror, may be illumined by the lights of the Sun of Truth.  AB06645

As for the balance of inspiration, it too is not free from error and oversight, for inspiration, as defined by the people, refers to heart-felt impressions, and thoughts can be from satanic whispers. When such a state occurs in any heart, how can one know whether it is divine inspiration or satanic whispers?   AB00223

But, I swear by God, none heareth and no soul perceiveth, for this divine flute needeth a plectrum of the essence of spirit, and this eternal harp requireth the melody of light - not these remote souls who have never tasted the wine of nearness nor drunk the water of reunion from the matchless fountain.   BH02318

Sometimes the human heart is inspired. One feels, is conscious of. For example, in the morning, a physician comes and prescribes medicine for the patient. Perhaps the patient feels a desire for it. Supposing, for instance, that the medicine a doctor sees fit might be lemonade or citric acid. The need of the patient, before the physician comes, would demand that selfsame thing.   ABU1909

The fourth criterion I have named is inspiration through which it is claimed the reality of knowledge is attainable. What is inspiration? It is the influx of the human heart. But what are satanic promptings which afflict mankind? They are the influx of the heart also. How shall we differentiate between them? The question arises: How shall we know whether we are following inspiration from God or satanic promptings of the human soul?  ABU0300

As for the fourth balance, it is the balance of inspiration [mizanu'l-'ilham]. Verily, inspiration indicateth certain inclinations of the heart [khuTuratin qalbiyyatin]. And the whisperings of Satan are also inclinations which arrive successively upon the heart by the agency of the soul. If there occureth to the heart a certain idea or question, how is it to be known whether it is an inspiration of the All-Merciful or a whispering of Satan?   AB00207

Know thou, verily, insight (i.e., mental perception) sees that which sight (i.e., physical) seeth not, and apprehends that which the eye perceives not. Inasmuch as the sight sees the mirage as water, and the images pictured in a mirror as reality and genuine; and it sees the earth as stationary, and the great stars as small. But the insight corrects the mistake of the Sight, and apprehends the reality; and it sees that the mirage is not water, that the images pictured in mirrors are naught else save reflections, that the earth is moving and the distant stars are great. Consequently, the truth of insight, its effectiveness and power is proven, as well as the weakness of sight, its inefficiency and defects.   AB01859

We asked 'Abdu'l-Baha concerning Intuition, or what is called "The Sixth Sense" (or inner perception or insight. I translate it "inner perception" as this is nearer the sense of the word used by 'Abdu'l-Baha). He said in part: "Intuition (or inner perception) is a power or a light by which man comprehends and perceives the realities of things without the mediumship of the outward senses. To illustrate: There are four kinds of lights: 1 - The outward (or phenomenal) light, which makes things manifest or visible, but which does not discover them. 2 - The light of the eye, or the Eye-sight. This makes things manifest and also discovers them, but it does not comprehend them. 3 - The light of the Intellect (or reason). this light makes things manifest, discovers them, comprehends them, but things pre-exist it, (i.e., its existence is posterior to the creation of things). 4 - The Light of God. It is the revealer of things (i.e., by it things are made manifest), the discoverer of things, the comprehender of things, and it precedes the creation of all things and follows the existence of all things, as it is said, 'God is the Light of the Heaven and Earth' (Quran).... The Prophets and Divine Manifestations have taught that this sense of Intuition, Inner Perception, or Innate Reason exists in man. Philosophers are also in accord with the Prophets in this matter, that is, to the degree of believing it possible that such a power may exist in man. For Philosophers do not deny the existence of powers which are supernatural. But Prophets demonstrate the existence of this Inner Perception and Intuition in man n a practical way. They show forth this power first in themselves by inspiring men with the faculty of comprehending the realities of things and grasping things supernatural." (That is, the Prophets prove the existence of Intuition or Inner Reason, by showing forth themselves such a comprehension which is beyond the power of any man. They also inspire their disciples with, and develop in them, the same power. This is illustrated in the life, prophetic vision and deeds of the Prophets and their true followers. ABU0971
