And from another direction the Aqsa Mosque speaketh forth   BH06446

The story takes place in the context of Islamic preaching in a mosque  ABU0896

that renowned edifice which was named the Remote Mosque in the kingdom of creation   BH05186

"the time of breaking the fast has come - a time of joy and gladness for all Muslims"   BH11306

Here Arabic prayers were being chanted and this cleric asked "Where is the Sahifa-i-Sajjadiyya?"   ABU2600

Now, according to the Mohamadan law a person fasting must not eat or drink anything from sunrise to sunset.   ABU1566

Observe what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an: Whoso judgeth not by what God hath revealed - such are the infidels.  BH01768

The text lists seven specific Islamic religious observances including prostration, prayer recitation, and wearing inscribed rings  BB00562

In the Islamic Dispensation, the veil had become such that women could not walk in the streets and bazaars - they were like purchased slaves.  ABU1837

People chatting, smoking, talking and drinking coffee and tea while Koran was chanted; at such feasts El Koran is chanted by very great singers  ABU1255

And now there is no doubt that religion has not changed nor will it change, and my belief in the laws of religion is what I now write in this book.   BB00214

Yet they still go to the mosque and, in their imagination, engage in the remembrance of God. Fie upon them for what they have earned in their vain life!  BH03168

We have prescribed for the believers to make mention of God's remembrance in the call to prayer according to what We have revealed in the Book of Kings.   BB00222

The prostration of the people of Islam before the Black Stone was simply obedience to the Prophet of God and to prove the influence of the Cause of God.   ABU3131

O Sha'ban! May all the months, even Ramadan and Muharram, be sacrificed for thee! It is said that Sha'ban is the month in which sustenance is apportioned   AB10530

In the traditions, the Prophet said to Imam 'Ali: "The Mahdi will come and He will fill the earth with justice, and He is of thy progeny" - this is an allusion.   ABU1986

During the call to prayer in the Dispensation of the Furqan (Qur'an), placing the hand beside the ear was an ancient custom and longstanding practice of the muezzins.   AB03174

In the Name of God alone, and blessings and peace be upon Him after Whom there shall be no Prophet... the month of Ramadan, wherein He prescribed fasting for all peoples   BH01992

I performed the circumambulation of the House on behalf of the owners... After departing from the city of Mecca, I traveled by land and was honored to reach the pure city of Medina   BB00496

It hath been ordained that obligatory prayer is to be performed by each of you individually. Save in the Prayer for the Dead, the practice of congregational prayer hath been annulled.  BH00001

This is a symbol, just as the circumambulation of the Ka'bah must be performed at a specified time and in a specified place where they must remove their garments from their body at once.  ABU3121

The abominable Shi'ih party hath committed that which no oppressor hath ever committed. They martyred the Lord of existence while occupying themselves with cursing and reviling from their pulpits.   BH02924

Grant, O my Lord, that the fire of Thy love and the heat produced by the fast enjoined by Thee may inflame them in Thy Cause, and make them to be occupied with Thy praise and with remembrance of Thee.  BH03908

The heedless ones have clung to names while remaining deprived of their Creator, Source and Lord. Names have become as idols for some, and the Shi'ih sect is truly recorded with God as worshippers of names   BH02012

Is it necessary to arise to say the midnight prayer, or the prayer of the Dawn, or to wash the hands and face before using these? No, the ablution is only for the obligatory daily prayer which should be said three times a day.  ABU3612

I beseech Thee by the Tree of Divine Purpose, and the Sign of the Worshipped One, and the reality of bowing and prostration, and the Witness and the Witnessed, and the Absolute Intercessor on the Promised Day, and by the Imams who guide aright...  BB00514

According to the Command, before detailing the minimum taxable limits of things, they should act according to what was revealed in the Qur'an - meaning that for whatever is subject to zakat, they should act according to what was revealed in the Qur'an.  BH11399

Say "Allah'u'Akbar" forty times within a space of five feet, and stand in silence until your soul returns to you. There the light of your Lord descended upon the cloud, with angels surrounding Him, and the matter was decreed, and the promise was fulfilled.  BB00113

I seemed to be standing within a great mosque, in the inmost shrine, facing the Qiblih, in the place of the Imam himself...As I stood I raised loudly the call to prayer...now that I have uttered the Call to prayer, the vast multitude will of themselves chant the prayer.'  ABU3363

That all things may bear witness to that for which Thou didst created them - the testimony that there is no God but God and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God and that the Imams are the Proofs of God and that the Gates of the House are the Manifestations of God's Mystery.   BB00449

Up to this time the religion of the Koran was strictly adhered to and nothing had been changed in the laws of Islam. The women were completely hidden from the eyes of men, covering themselves with veils on going out, speaking to no man and living in their houses like prisoners.  ABU0306

For instance, consider Ramadan now. In ancient times how firmly established it was! It was so strictly observed that if someone wished to eat even in a hidden place, it was impossible. Even children would fast. Now it has completely disappeared - it is a name without substance.   ABU0458

For example there are two sects in the Mohamadan world; one holds that the Words of the Koran are 'Uncreated and Eternal'; the other one believes these words are 'Created and finite.' Around these two contradictory schools of thoughts many battles are raged and many books are written.   ABU1390

And among the signs of His Revelation is Prayer - can anyone count the number who pray? And among the signs of His Revelation is Alms - can anyone count those who give alms? And among the signs of His Revelation is Fasting - can anyone count those who fast? And among the signs of His Revelation is the Fifth - can anyone count those who give it?  BB00080

They had nothing to show but outward observances, such as prayer, fasting, pilgrimage, almsgiving, and the commemoration of the blessed Imams. The people of true knowledge would therefore call them "Qishri" (superficial), for amongst them the inner truths and meanings were absent, spiritual perceptions were non-existent, and heavenly morals had become but an idle matter.  AB00046

The serious question arises: 'Has the Lord God foreseen that this human being will not let himself be saved, or has He, for reasons inscrutable to us, let him be ensnared from the beginning in folly and delusion?' Forget not, O my guest, that the Christian religion expresses itself more in belief than in actions, but Islam concerns itself more with deeds than with belief.  ABU0414

For instance, they consider pilgrimage to the illumined shrine forbidden, while deeming it permissible to visit the Mosque of Quba, which was created by the Word of the Prophet. How can it be that pilgrimage to the Kaaba, which became the Kaaba by the Word of the Prophet and was ascribed to God by His pure utterance, is considered permissible, while pilgrimage to His shrine is not?  ABU1664

Among them, one day came a group of religious scholars, and one of them said, We were awaiting the Promised Mahdi. Then a man from Shiraz claimed to be the Mahdi, and a number of people followed him. After that, we were awaiting the appearance of the Husayni. Now you have claimed that station. Your duty is to study Sharh-i-Lum'ih and Sibawayh until you finally return to your proper place.  BHU0029

Thereupon he speaketh the Takbirs: In the first: "We all, verily, worship God." In the second: "We all, verily, bow down before God." In the third: "We all, verily, are devoted unto God." In the fourth: "We all, verily, are rememberers of God." In the fifth: "We all, verily, give praise unto God." In the sixth: "We all, verily, are patient in God." (Each of these is to be repeated nineteen times.)   BH09085

O pilgrim to the Ka'bah of the Friend! Praise be to God that thou hast been honored to visit the House of God, hast been blessed with the greater pilgrimage, and after the veil was lifted, didst enter the Most Pure Sanctuary. Thou didst circumambulate and taste from the spiritual Zamzam of holiness, and with utmost longing and desire didst run with the feet of detachment between the spiritual Safa and divine Marwah.  BH09313

And some believe these ten nights are the night of Naw-Ruz festival and the night of the Festival of Sacrifice and the night of the Ramadan festival and the night of Ghadir and the Night of the Ascension and the night of the birth of the Prophet, may my spirit be sacrificed for him, and the night of 'Ashura and the night of the ninth and tenth of Ramadan and the night of the birth of the Prince [Ali] and the Night of Power.  AB01308

This is a Day whereon there gather at Thy House, by the word of Thy Beloved, such numbers as none can reckon save Thee, and likewise at His tomb, and likewise at the places...Thus was their remembrance ordained among the servants in Islam, as Thy Beloved made that day a festival wherein they might honor one another, draw close to one another, and approach each other in obedience to Thy Messenger's command and to exalt the Word of Thy Prophet.   BB00150

As for what was revealed in the Surah of Pilgrimage that God has ordained that the circumambulator must hear the call of Truth during his circumambulation, and if he does not hear it he must repeat the circumambulation until he hears the call - the intended meaning of the call is the call of the All-Merciful from the right valley of man's heart, and this is the blessed spot from which the call rises and which attentive ears hear while hardened hearts are deprived of hearing it.   AB00216

The first obligatory prayer is the noon prayer of four rak'ahs, then the afternoon prayer likewise, then the sunset prayer of three rak'ahs, then the night prayer like the first, then the dawn prayer of half that, then the Friday prayer during the days of occultation which is two rak'ahs... Then there is the prayer for solar eclipse, lunar eclipse, earthquakes, and for every wondrous sign that descends from heaven or occurs on earth by God's leave. Then the circumambulation prayer for obligatory pilgrimage and lesser pilgrimage and women's circumambulation.  BB00039

O My Creatures! Ye all perform, throughout your lives, with utmost striving and endeavour, my commandments for the sake of attaining My good pleasure. If ye observe the derivative precepts, that is solely because I have revealed them in the Book; if ye recognise the Imams of guidance, or seek My nearness through visiting Their shrines, that is merely because Their names have been alluded to in the Qur'an, if ye acknowledge unto the prophethood of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, blessings of God rest upon Him, that is only because He was My Messenger; if ye circle around Ka'bih, that is merely because I have called it My House, and if ye magnify the Qur'an, that is solely because It is My Word.  BB00001

O Ali! A group is gathered in that place, and by the True One Himself, it hath been witnessed that one of those souls continuously struck himself against stone and mud and wall for more than four hours until there was fear of his perishing. Then he would fall unconscious to the ground and for about two hours would have no awareness at all. And they count these things among spiritual gifts. God is quit of them and We are quit of them. Likewise there is a group known as the Rifa'i. These souls, by their own account, walk through fire and in moments of ecstasy strike each other with swords in such manner that the observer would think they had severed their own limbs. All this is but tricks and deceit and guile from their own selves.   BH00672

With the Mohamadans it has become a habit to play with the rosary all the time. It was originally intended for the repetition of certain divine attributes in order that the worshippers may become reminded thereby and embody those attributes in their daily lives, such as self-sacrifice, generosity, wisdom, knowledge, devotion etc. but now it has become a mere rote - repetition of words without attention to meaning.   ABU1315
