O people of God! Inquire ye of the people of the Qurʼan: 'Where is Jabulqa, and what of Jabulsa? What hath become of those illusory cities?' They have condemned as a liar that hapless Jaʻfar, who did not speak falsely. For uttering a single truthful remark, he hath been branded a liar from the early days of Islam to the present time. 'God's malison on the head of the people of tyranny!'  BH06358

Hadi Dawlatabadi is occupied with leading the poor people astray. He is among those who have contrived a Holy Land and a Jabulqa and Jabulsa.  A whole world of idle fancies and a realm of vain imaginings hath newly appeared.  BH02065

"Some thought the source of this honey was in Jabulqa and Jabulsa, while others imagined the fountainhead of this sugar to be in the treasuries of heaven."  AB03171

They believe that he is the Imam Mihdi, who with servants and soldiers are abiding in Jabulqa and Jabulsa, two imaginary cities of the East and the West. Each of these cities has twelve gates. The Imam Mihdi spends six months of the year in either city.   ABU0869

This group known as Babis say that His Holiness has appeared, while a faction among the Islamic sects who consider themselves Shi'ih deny this Manifestation and say that He must appear from the imaginary Jabulqa and Jabulsa - which are names of two cities - with fabricated signs.   BH00754

Even as the divines of Iran from the inception of Islam until now maintain that the Promised One dwells in Jabulqa and Jabulsa, and whosoever speaks otherwise, they pronounce his death sentence and mock the Sunnis, since those souls do not cling to such invented fancies but rather affirm and proclaim His birth.  BH00324

Jews have been anticipating the appearance of the Promised One from the City of the Sabbath which is concealed from the eyes; the same is Jabulqa. The community of Jesus [Christians] await the appearance of the Promised One from the centre of the sky, upon a cloud, descending from the most elevated zenith; the same is Jabarsa.  AB02475

I saw a tall man with luminous face, white beard and white locks falling down on his shoulder. He had a most pleasant countenance and sweet voice. He also spoke in this new language. I asked him from which part of the world does he come from? He said: 'From Jabolga and Jaborsa.' (Now these two cities are the two imaginary cities where according to Mohamadan traditions the Promised One is living and the Baha'is have exploded this idea) When he said that "I have come from Jabolga and Jaborsa', I thought 'now how are we going to answer the Mohamadans?' Then I asked him in which part of the world these two cities are situated?' He smiled and said:- 'These cities are not on earth; they are in heaven'. I became, then very happy and exclaimed: 'you are a heavenly personage! Let us go to Baha'u'llah!' While he was engaged in a wonderful, divine conversation with the Blessed Perfection in the new language I was so overjoyed that I awoke. I have been happy since then.  ABU1546

All that thou hast heard regarding Muhammad the son of Hasan  - may the souls of all that are immersed in the oceans of the spirit be offered up for His sake - is true beyond the shadow of a doubt, and we all verily bear allegiance unto Him. But the Imams of the Faith have fixed His abode in the city of Jabulqa, which they have depicted in strange and marvellous signs. To interpret this city according to the literal meaning of the tradition would indeed prove impossible, nor can such a city ever be found. Wert thou to search the uttermost corners of the earth, nay probe its length and breadth for as long as God's eternity hath lasted and His sovereignty will endure, thou wouldst never find a city such as they have described, for the entirety of the earth could neither contain nor encompass it. If thou wouldst lead Me unto this city, I could assuredly lead thee unto this holy Being, Whom the people have conceived according to what they possess and not to that which pertaineth unto Him! Since this is not in thy power, thou hast no recourse but to interpret symbolically the accounts and traditions that have been reported from these luminous souls. And, as such an interpretation is needed for the traditions pertaining to the aforementioned city, so too is it required for this holy Being.  BH00012
