The essence of the Torah is the Ancient Covenant, and that Ancient Covenant was a harbinger of this new Covenant, which is the Covenant of the manifestation of the Lord with all His attributes and perfection. It is a Covenant taken from all the Prophets, whereby the face of the earth shall be transformed into the supreme Paradise and the divine signs shall become manifest throughout the world. The teachings of the Ancient Beauty constitute that Covenant, all of which must needs be realized in its own time, even though it may take successive centuries; yet ultimately it must be fulfilled and breathe a new spirit into the dead bodies of mankind.  ABU2545

But the fame of the beauty of Joseph is still universal   ABU2840

They contain many inspired utterances, but through the lapse of time human ideas have crept in and afterwards men have come to believe that they are all, in their totality the revealed words of God. Similarly the Christian theologians up to the last century believed that the Pentateuch was written by Moses but modern criticism of the Bible by scholars and thinkers has shown us otherwise because there so many historical discrepancies in these books that are simply bewildering.  Only the Decalogue and a few other utterances are [from] Moses, the rest is written by Ezra, the priest.   ABU2493

Today is the day when the Sun of the Most Great Name is rising from the horizon of the world, mentioned in every Book by a different name. In the Torah It appeared and was recorded by the name of Jehovah - a name which, before the advent of Moses, was concealed in God's treasury of knowledge. Thus in the Torah He says: "I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob as God Almighty, but by My name Jehovah I was not known to them."   BH00193

But O my Beloved and my Purpose, when I hear from them what the Jews said concerning Thee, then my innermost being is shaken and my heart trembles, for they say "God's hand is chained" - this from their rebellion against Thee and Thy trustees, though Thy hands of power were ever outstretched over all contingent things and extended over all created things. BH03512

It is well known that when Nebuchadnezzar invaded Syria he destroyed the whole of the Israelitish books and records. It is only needful for us to read and study the inspired and revealed parts of the Bible. The other parts are no more sacred than the books of history.   ABU1695

The Torah that is in the hands of people is not the complete heavenly Book. For instance, it states 'Moses said thus.' What has this to do with a heavenly Book, and what has something written after Moses to do with Moses? These are additions that historians have appended to the Torah. The Torah is that Book of Deuteronomy which contains the laws.  ABU0358

They have gathered various sayings of the Prophets like Isaiah, Ezekiel, Solomon, David, Jeremiah, Zechariah and others into one volume, though most parts of it are historical accounts written after Moses.  BH00107

The sovereignty of David and the splendor of Solomon will once more be manifested.   ABU2473

The Jews said "God's hand is chained up." Say: No, by His very Self, the True One!   BH11450

The hoopoe was one who Solomon sent as a messenger and who achieved the highest degree of fame.   ABU3481

It is the destiny of the Jewish people to embrace the Cause -- a fact of which there is no doubt.  ABU1689

The majority of the Jews in Persia, however, have accepted the teaching of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU1341

The truth of the religion of Moses and of Baha'u'llah is one.   ABU3161

through Abraham there came the "School of the Prophets," who guided the Hebrew race in spiritual truths  ABU3530

Remember when the Interlocutor (Moses) came with clear signs, every remote scholar turned away from Him.  BH10544

that all the promises of the Prophets regarding them may be fulfilled in the world of existence and witness   AB01604

"O Children of Israel! Remember My favor wherewith I favored you and how I preferred you above all creatures."  AB04023

Solomon, son of David - peace be upon him - hath said: O my Lord! Grant me a sovereignty which suits not another after me.  AB09930

Two Jewish children have written a beautiful commentary proving the Cause of Christ, Muhammad, and the Blessed Perfection.   ABU1629

Moses, outwardly, struck and killed a man, then came and said "I am he who killed that man, and now I have become a Prophet".  ABU0708

This is the day in which Zion dances with joy. That day has come for you to return to Palestine and see how it is flourishing.  ABU3142

As for the matter of your daughter, if they are known and recognized as Jewish among the people, carry out the law of the Torah.  AB11472

Because Moses as a babe chose the fire and had his tongue burned, therefore in after life God endowed his mouth with great eloquence.   ABU2366

Of course it is forbidden in the laws of Moses to intermarry with strangers...Unto them a son will be born who will be your promised Messiah.   ABU1277

His Holiness Elijah reinstated the Law of God. In this very cave his disciples would sit while he taught and instructed, and truly he was a reviver.  ABU0753

The story about David is from the fabrications of the Talmudic Jews and has no foundation. There are many such fabrications in some Talmudic stories   AB00338

When he observed that the Israelites were overthrown, conquered, and detested, and afflicted with every ailment and disease in this abode of deception   AB07485

I beseech God that you may be a lamp of guidance among the descendants of His Glorious Holiness, that is, Israel, and a banner of the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB09050

His Holiness Moses offers praise in the Kingdom of sanctification for your enkindlement and attraction...His Holiness Abraham, the Friend, in the exalted Kingdom   AB01604

the migration and wandering of Abraham resulted in the guidance of the entire world and precipitated the Manifestation of Isaac, Ishmael, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, David, Solomon, Christ, Muhammad and the Exalted One [the Bab].   ABU3001

All the prophets of God were poor, His Holiness Moses was a mere shepherd. This will show you that in the estimation of God, poverty is greater than the accumulation of wealth.   ABU0656

We hope through divine confirmations that you will awaken Israel and make the people of the Lord of Hosts mindful, and guide all to holy Zion and lead them to the Tent of Testimony.  AB06296

Now the Jews believe that a chariot of fire descended from heaven and caught him up to heaven; but the fact is that he retired to spend his time in communion with God. This is the story.   ABU0408


Your journey is of great importance, much like the journeys of Isaiah. The Prophet Isaiah traveled throughout the length and breadth of the Holy Land and bestowed a new vitality to the Israelites.  ABU2429

"Are the 'lost tribes' of the House of Israel now identified as the different nations of the earth? Answer: No, they are scattered throughout all the world, among the nations, and mingled with them."  ABU2774

Abdu'l-Baha said that most of the Persians Jews had become believers, - as many as 4000 Jews out of 5000 in one city being of our Faith, - and in a short time all the Persian Jews would be believers.  ABU0378


The promise of the Glorious Lord to Israel hath precedence - those promises shall be fulfilled. The children of Jacob shall become honored, and in the Egypt of guidance they shall be accepted and esteemed.  AB12613

"There is an old wall remaining of Solomon's Temple. They gather there, kiss the wall and weep; but when Christ came, they crucified Him. You will see the wall. Men, women and children weeping and praying."  ABU0680


For two thousand years it has continued thus, and their ultimate hope is the rebuilding of Solomon's Temple, behind whose ruined wall they wail and lament, weep and mourn, crying out when will this wall be restored?   AB01402

In the Torah the command for fasting is from sunset to sunset for three days. For three days and three nights they, the Jews, take nothing. This is not obligatory. There are Fasts of three days, seven days and nine days.  ABU0786

His Holiness Moses appeared with mighty signs, yet they did not accept Him. Each day He manifested with a proof, a clear evidence, and verses revealed, yet still the opposers and deniers acted without justice or fairness  BH07946

In this glorious Dispensation, the children of Abraham have attained to firm faith, steadfast conviction and mighty, intense assurance - they have become the pride of Israel and the glory of the party of the Glorious Lord  AB05348

The Israelites in Iran were in the utmost abasement, but from the day the Sun of Truth dawned upon that land, Israel progressed day by day, gained honor and found comfort, to such a degree that they became the envy of others   AB01800

Some of the prophets were commissioned at night in the world of vision. In the world of vision they would see a luminous person or divine form address them saying: "Go to the land of Israel and convey such and such, say such and such."  ABU0059

Mayest thou make the faces of the Israelites radiant and show forth the character of the former Prophets. Mayest thou spread abroad the sweet fragrance of Abraham's rose garden and make prosperous the dwelling place of the ancient divines.  AB06712

"Art thou sure that the Messiah shall appear after two years? If he do[es] not appear in that time wilt thou continue to believe in the Talmud and Rabbinical lore? Several times thou hast covenanted with me and every time thou hast broken it."  ABU2788

Even now there are some Jews who have secluded themselves in Jerusalem and are engaged in extreme austerities and scripture reading, with some fasting for three consecutive days and nights, yet they are and shall remain rejected in the sight of God   BH01997

The Blessed Beauty explicitly stated in the Holy Tablets that Israel's days of abasement have passed, the shadow of divine grace encompasses them, and this people will progress day by day and be freed from the inertia and humiliation of thousands of years.  AB00827

He proved the reality of Christ from the Old Testament. Then she asked for intellectual proofs. He gave her those also. She looked up and said: 'In the name of God, this is very good. He has a very good faith, but thou wilt not let him remain a Christian.'   ABU0494

Because the Children of Israel were wavering, doubts would continually arise for them. These doubts cast them into such afflictions. If the Children of Israel had possessed steadfastness, neither the events of Nebuchadnezzar nor the events of Titus would have occurred.   ABU2434

The meaning is that the abasement which Israel endured for two thousand five hundred years shall now be transformed into eternal glory, and outwardly too they shall become honored, to such a degree that they shall be envied by their enemies and coveted by their friends.  AB03845

Praise be to God that you are shining lamps in the sanctuary of Israel and have learned lessons of inner meanings and truth in the school of Abraham. You are the living cypress in the garden of the hopes of the ancients and the smiling rosebud in the avenue of the desires of those great ones.  AB12813

Read the Book of Isaiah - there is glad tidings for you there. I hope that glad tidings will be fully realized and aspirations will be achieved as they should be, so that you may become like laughing hundred-petaled fragrant roses blooming in the garden of Israel and illuminate the world of Israel.  AB05648

O divine loved ones, descendants of His Holiness the Illustrious Abraham...This is the gift of God, this is the grace of the All-Merciful, this is the divine promise to His Holiness Abraham, peace be upon him. Truly you are descendants of that illustrious personage and progeny of that beautiful master.  AB04760

"In their heavenly books the prophets have spoken of the Day of the Lord, the Last Day, and what they have spoken is all being realized in this day. The Blessed Beauty sixty years ago in some of his tablets promised the Jews that they would come back to the Holy Land and what he said will be realized."  ABU1810

They are weeping because their sovereignty is taken away; while the Temple of Solomon has been destroyed. They are longing to try to establish Jewish sovereignty. They are not weeping for the sake of God...of Christ, but for sovereignty; they want worldly power...to regain their former power and influence.  ABU0570

Today one finds few religious people among the Jews. When I was in Tiberias, I detected no trace of religious devotion from any Jew except one person. I saw an elderly neighbor who, at ninety years of age, was engaged in reading the Torah. I observed him reading the Torah in a state of supplication and humility.  ABU0910

If the Israelites look with fairness, they will see that all the signs have appeared. Matters that were impossible and inconceivable have come to pass, and the Lord of Hosts without armies has conquered East and West. The divine law will soon glorify Israel, and the blessed favors will ennoble Abraham's lineage.  AB00370

I am the Angel of the Lord! I have brought for you good tidings of deliverance! Rejoice and be of good courage! Thus said the Lord of Host, the Lord who delivered you out of the tyranny of Pharaohs, brought you out of Egypt and gave you the land flowing with milk and honey; the God of your fathers Abraham, Jacob, Isaac and Joseph.   ABU1277

This land is Palestine. It is a Holy Land. Soon the Jewish people shall return to this land, and once more David's sovereignty and Solomon's splendor shall be made manifest. This is an explicit divine promise, and there is no doubt therein. The Jewish people will be made resplendent. They will gather under the banner of the Cause.   ABU1125

Praise be to God that the illustrious Khalil has such a descendant as thee, and that his holiness Abraham has such a devoted and compassionate son in Israel. The raising up of such souls is truly a cause of joy, for praise be to God, the lamentations and prayers and counsels and admonitions of the Prophets of Israel were not in vain.   AB01943

"son of God" at the time of Moses and Christ was a term which was used also in relation to the Children of Israel, as in the Torah they have been called "sons of God". In Exodus at the end of chapter four, God said unto Moses to inform Pharaoh that "the children of Israel are my first-born sons. If thou wilt not free them, I will slay thy first-born son."  ABU2540

the question of the excellence or baseness of things is determined either by reason or by religious law. Some believe that it is based on religious law: Such is the case with the Jews, who believe that all the commandments of the Torah are binding and that they are matters of religious law rather than of reason. Thus they say that one of the commandments of the Torah is that meat and butter cannot be eaten together, for this is "trefah" (and "trefah" in Hebrew means unclean, while "kosher" means clean). This they say is a question of religious law and not of reason.  AB00779

Moses the Interlocutor counts that people as the manifestation of great grace. Aaron knows Israel as the manifestations of the favors of the Incomparable Lord. Solomon considers his people as successful in both worlds. David sees the Jews as manifestations of the favors of the Loving Lord. Isaiah, Elijah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel and Ezra all praise and commend all of Israel.  AB11837

Moses endured hardship and difficulty for 40 years, and after him appointed Joshua as his successor and went to rest and passed away, and no one knows the place of his death nor the cave to which he retreated. Elijah revived the religion of Moses after Jeroboam and Rehoboam had destroyed it. He too, like Moses, rested in a cave on Mount Carmel and passed away, and no one knows his tomb. ABU2547

Moreover, in the time of Christ, the general morals and condition of the Children of Israel had become entirely corrupt and degraded, and Israel had fallen into the depths of abasement, bondage and humiliation. One day they were captive to Persia and Chaldea, another day subject to the Assyrian state; one day they were the subjects of Greece, another day submissive and abject before Rome.  AB01520


Abraham was in Haran, but at last he was brought to this place, and the King of Peace, the teacher of Abraham, was here. Moses was here in these surroundings. The prophets of Israel all were here. Jesus Christ was also from here and Mohammed emigrated to this place, and this new Revelation also came to this place; although He originated in Persia, the Blessed Perfection came to this place.   ABU0506

What harm could come from a statement by the Jews that Jesus was also a Manifestation of the Word of God? Have the Christians suffered for their belief in Moses? Have they experienced any loss of religious enthusiasm or witnessed any defeat in their religious belief by declaring that Moses was a Prophet of God, that the Torah was a Book of God and that all the prophets of Israel were prophets of God?  ABU0002

The Israelites raised up such a tumult and displayed such attraction and enkindlement that the glorious spirit of His Holiness Abraham found gladness and joy in the Most Glorious Kingdom, for praise be to God, this lineage of the Israelites in the Day of His Manifestation beheld the dawning of the Light, hastened to the sanctified shelter of the All-Forgiving Lord, and gathered beneath the banner of the Creator.  AB10908

They made this idol of copper and would light a fire beneath it. Then a priest would come and place a child on top of this Baal, and it would burn. Matters reached such a state that the Children of Israel became idol-worshippers. Then Elijah appeared. His Holiness Elijah re-established the Law of God. In this very cave his disciples would sit while he taught and instructed them. He was, in truth, a reviver of the Faith.  ABU0194

In Jerusalem every now and then they broadcast a promise giving a specific time based on the holy scriptures and say that on such a date the Promised One will appear to deliver the Jews. They say, 'We have derived these from the holy texts.' But when that time and day approach they cast a doubt over their promise and give another. Thus they keep the Jews under the influence of their wish and desires and deprive them of the truth.  ABU1915

These people of Israel are even unto the present day still expecting that Manifestation which the Bible hath foretold! How many Manifestations of Holiness, how many Revealers of the light everlasting, have appeared since the time of Moses, and yet Israel, wrapt in the densest veils of satanic fancy and false imaginings, is still expectant that the idol of her own handiwork will appear with such signs as she herself hath conceived!  BH00002

The Orthodox Jews according to the literal interpretation of a number of passages in the Old Testament, of course are holding such a belief but the growing literary and intellectual party, having cast away the enthusiasm born out of ignorance, discredit the whole proposition as nothing else but a dream. They think it is no more than a wild fancy on the part of the Jews to ever harbor the idea of founding the Solomonic Sovereignty in Jerusalem.   ABU0953

O beloved friends of Abdu'l-Baha! Praise be to God, the horizon of Israel has become illumined and the bestowals of the Glorious Lord unto His Friend Abraham have become and shall continue to become manifest. The Israelites of Iran have, in truth, completely rent asunder the veil of vain imaginings, have transcended the realm of metaphor, and have worshipped the Beauty of Reality. They have become the cause of pride and glory to all Israelites.  AB11382

The Jews are unpopular now, but they will progress, and they will come here to reside. In the Books of the Prophets this promise has been given and in the Tablets of the Blessed Beauty for the Jews of Persia, He has written that the promises which have been given to you, 'that you will be gathered together', will be fulfilled. Forty years ago He wrote this. Many of the Jews of Persia have become Baha'is and blessed souls have entered the Cause.   ABU1216

Now, for nearly three thousand years, Israel had fallen to the depths and become abased and humiliated. Yet again the rays of grace have shone forth and the manifestation of divine bounty has been perfected. The descendant of Abraham has been illumined and the light of ancient glory has dawned. The morn of divine favors has risen and the star of beneficence has gleamed bright. Soon you shall observe that God's promise concerning Abraham's lineage shall be particularly fulfilled and joy shall unveil its countenance.  AB11487

You have tasted the poison of persecution in the path of Baha and become the target of the arrows of calamity. You have experienced great tribulations and endured severe trials. Praise be to God that in the fire of tests your faces became radiant and you burned away the veils of people's vain imaginings. Extend utmost respect and honor to the Jewish believers, descendants of Abraham, on my behalf and kiss their faces and hair, for they heard the counsels of Abraham with the ear of the soul and carried them out with heart and limb.  AB11837

When His Holiness Moses the Great delivered Israel from ancient Egypt and brought them to the Holy Land, through the power of God's law, the force of God's Kingdom, the breaths of prophetic revelation, and the education of the pure ones, Israel ascended from the depths of abasement to the heights of glory in both worlds. They progressed in all degrees of existence until, in the time of David and Solomon, they reached such a station that the fame of their nobility reached all horizons and news of their virtues and qualities reached East and West  AB01333

Where is the authority of the Messiah? Where is the throne of David, the Glorious? Where is his iron rod? Where are his innumerable hosts? Where are his attacking armies? Where are the angels of heaven? Where do we see justice of government existing among people and even among beasts and insects? Where is his great majesty? Where is his power, which shaketh heaven and earth? Is not this a claim of one who is bewildered and wandering amidst valleys and hills? Doth he not ride upon an ass, while on his head there is a crown of thorns and he is despised?  AB04596

Behold when the Messiah shall come, signs and wonders shall testify that He is in truth the Christ. We know the signs and conditions, and they have not appeared. The Messiah will arise out of an unknown city. He shall sit upon the throne of David, and behold, He shall come with a sword of steel, and with a sceptre of iron shall He rule! He shall fulfil the law of the Prophets, He shall conquer the East and the West, and shall glorify His chosen people the Jews. He shall bring with Him a reign of peace, during which even the animals shall cease to be at enmity with man.  ABU0473

As for the word Israel, this was the title of Jacob himself, not his children. After the term Bani-Israel (Children of Israel), the word son was dropped and Israel alone was used. This is common in languages; for example, the children of Ham are called Ham, the children of Japheth are called Japheth, the Turkish lineage is called Turk, and the children of Ya'rub are called Arab. There are many such examples. Later, the term Israel was applied to the people of God, as mentioned in the Torah, meaning the community of God, and in this sense it was applied to all souls who turned to God.  AB07601

In this Most Great Revelation, Israel has become the manifestation of the favors of the Glorious Lord. Therefore, throughout all regions, day by day it grows more honored. A special gaze of divine favor has been directed toward those oppressed ones, so that they may be delivered from their profound abasement, attain eternal glory, and make the desolate Holy Land prosperous and flourishing once again. And this will undoubtedly come to pass, for the promises that God made through the tongue of the Prophets to this scattered and dispersed people will be fulfilled in this Most Great Cycle.  AB04664

Now I ask you, O esteemed Jews, be fair: according to the Mosaic Law, should a hand be cut off for stealing one rial? That was appropriate for that time and place. The Israelites were in the wilderness, and maintaining order in the wilderness was not easily achieved. Severity in retribution was necessary to maintain order. Therefore, in the Mosaic Law, the divine decree was to cut off the hand for stealing one rial. Now be fair, in these days in America, can one cut off a hand for stealing a million rials? They said no. They themselves admitted that the Ten Commandments cannot be fully implemented.   ABU0458

After Solomon, Jeroboam created great mischief. He incited the people to ask Rehoboam, Solomon's son, since you have newly ascended the throne, to reduce the taxes and obligations. Rehoboam consulted - the wise ones said to reduce them, the foolish ones said 'This is your coronation day, if you give in now, they will demand this every day.' Rehoboam said 'During Solomon's time taxes were low, I will increase them.' This caused Jeroboam to separate ten tribes from Rehoboam and created great mischief. Things reached the point where war broke out and they became divided. The conflict lasted several hundred years until finally it led to idol worship.  ABU0753

Likewise, the physical laws and transactions of the Torah suited that time. They cannot be implemented now. There are ten death sentences in the Torah - can they be carried out? For instance, can someone who takes out another's eye have their own eyes removed? Can someone who throws a stone breaking another's tooth have their tooth broken with a stone? Can one who curses their father be put to death? Even before the time of the Messenger of God, the Israelites had suspended these laws. After the event of Nebuchadnezzar, when they saw that if they acted according to the Torah's law, they would have to kill these remaining survivors of Nebuchadnezzar.  ABU0367

"Now you who claim to be the sons of God and the first-born of Israel rose first in rebellion against God, Moses and Aaron. For we read in Numbers, Chapter 14, v. 2: 'And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron; and the whole congregation said unto them: Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt! Or would God that we had died in this wilderness! And Wherefore hath the Lord brought us unto this land..." Chapter 11, v. 4 and 5: 'And the children of Israel also wept again, and said: Who shall give us flesh to eat? We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt; the cucumbers and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions and the garlic.'"  ABU1359

Today is a day when particular thoughts, whether from individuals or nations, cause great misfortune and ultimately lead to evident loss. What is universal today is divine and causes the progress of all humanity, while what is particular is pure detriment and sheer loss. Now Israel must abandon sick thoughts and with sound determination engage in universal matters. Israel's thoughts must settle on what benefits all and brings happiness to all humanity. Today success accompanies those who, like the sun, shed divine radiance upon all horizons and are completely detached from personal and national restrictions that spring from satanic whisperings. This is the foundation of triumph and prosperity.  AB00827

Furthermore, the Torah, held to be the most ancient of histories, existeth today in three separate versions: the Hebrew, considered authentic by the Jews and the Protestant clergy; the Greek Septuagint, which is used as authoritative in the Greek and other Eastern churches; and the Samaritan Torah, the standard authority for that people. These three versions differ greatly, one from another, even with regard to the lifetimes of the most celebrated figures. In the Hebrew Torah, it is recorded that from Noah's flood until the birth of Abraham there was an interval of two hundred and ninety-two years. In the Greek, that time-span is given as one thousand and seventy-two years, while in the Samaritan, the recorded span is nine hundred and forty-two years.  AB00263

O Lord, God of Abraham and Isaac! Thou hast clothed this glorious party of Israel in the robe of virtue and distinguished them with a special gift, and made them the manifestation of "Verily, I have chosen you above all peoples." From that people Thou didst raise up Prophets and gather blessed souls beneath the shadow of the Most Great Banner. O Lord! Make manifest and evident that which Thou didst promise through the tongue of the Prophets, and make them successful and joyous through the gifts which Thou didst give them glad tidings of. Grant organization to this scattered people and bestow eternal glory upon this oppressed nation, that they may gather in the Holy Land which is the inheritance of their forefathers and with utmost glory engage in Thy praise and glorification. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Mighty, the Bestower.  AB01943

The reason for this was that they said: 'The Revelation of Christ, according to the clear text of the Torah, will be attested by certain signs, and so long as these signs have not appeared, whoso layeth claim to be a Messiah is an impostor. Among these signs is this, that the Messiah should come from an unknown place, yet we all know this man's house in Nazareth, and can any good thing come out of Nazareth? The second sign is that He shall rule with a rod of iron, that is, He must act with the sword, but this Messiah has not even a wooden staff. Another of the conditions and signs is this: He must sit upon the throne of David and establish David's sovereignty. Now, far from being enthroned, this man has not even a mat to sit on. Another of the conditions is this: the promulgation of all the laws of the Torah; yet this man has abrogated these laws, and has even broken the sabbath day, although it is the clear text of the Torah that whosoever layeth claim to prophethood and revealeth miracles and breaketh the sabbath day, must be put to death.'  AB00645

Noah was a carpenter and prepared the ark of salvation  AB10627

Perchance it is because of this that Jewish people will embrace the Cause, since there is no other course left to them.  ABU1913


That is, the Word of God bestowed the spirit of faith upon the children of Israel, and that nation advanced in all degrees under the shadow of His Law and expanded until the time of Solomon and David, taking five hundred years before the Cause was spread as it should be.  ABU0090

With utmost detachment, His Holiness Elijah rescued the Israelites from idol worshiping and immersed them in the ocean of divine effulgence. He renewed the religion of God and established its foundation on firm ground. And when He had organized the affairs and edified the people, He withdrew into solitude, which is why it is revealed in the Qur'an, "And we uplifted Him to a place on high."  ABU1213

Question: The American turns to the Master: "Honoured Teacher, what does the Prophet of the Baha'i Religion teach regarding the future of Israel, will Israel remain the Chosen People - until the end of time?"   Answer:  The Master explains: "...If we study the Bible, the Holy Book of the Jews and Christians, the light of understanding will dawn for us. By whom have the Jews been chosen? We are agreed on this -by God, the Almighty! For what, to what purpose have they been chosen: for service, for sacrificial service, and because service and sacrifice are synonymous with suffering, the answer is: God, the All-Highest, has chosen the people of Israel for service and for suffering.... There have been and are those divines in God who consider the people of Israel as a chosen people, because it has been chosen by the Lord God in the highest degree as the bearer of His Revelation. If one thinks about it, one is tempted to ask: Why has the Almighty made particularly this small, insignificant Semitic people into the place and instrument of His Revelation? Have not three of the greatest divine Manifestations: Moses, Christ and Muhammad sprung from the Semitic womb? The answer must be: The Almighty is the sovereign Potter Who forms in absolute freedom the vessels of honour and of dishonour, Who gives suitable form and the right content and adds the greatness or smallness of responsibility to each vessel according to eternal standards. He is the Creator, Preserver, Director and Judge at the same time. His judgment spans three or four human generations, His mercy, however, illumines a thousand generations! Let us bow to His boundless wisdom, His unimaginable mercy; to Him do we commend the chosen people of Israel, to Him do we commend ourselves and all mankind."  ABU0452

It is evident that the five books which are generally attributed to Moses are written by Ezra, the high priest. Only the Tablets and the commandments belong to Moses. The contents of the Books will bear out this argument, because, many events are recorded which transpired long after Moses.   ABU2485

There are three ancient Bibles. 1st the Jewish Bible 2d the [Sanhedrin] Bible which was translated by seventy wisest Rabbis into Greek at the time of Alexander [crossed out and replaced with Ptolemy]. 3d the Samaritan Bible. These three Bibles differ a great deal from each other on historical ground.   ABU2619

know that the Torah has two parts: one part historical and one part divine laws and religious ordinances. The section of laws and ordinances is from His Eminence Moses, but the historical section is from Ezra. Proof of this is that at the end of the fifth book, events that occurred after Moses are recorded  AB04721

The only parts of the Bible we should consider as sacred and inspired are these revealed writings and visions. With regard to the Book of Moses, only those parts are sacred which contain his inspired writings, such as the Ten Commandments, etc. The rest are mere books of history written much later than the time of Moses and often not literally true.   ABU1695


As to thy question concerning the additions to the Old and New Testament: Know thou, verily, as people could not understand the words, nor could they apprehend the realities therein, therefore they have translated them according to their own understanding and interpreted the verses after their own ideas and thus the text fell into confusion. This is undoubtedly true. As to an intentional addition: This is something uncertain. But they have made great mistakes as to the understanding of the texts and the comprehending of the references and have therefore fallen into doubts, especially in regard to the symbolical verses.   AB07049

