He who is with Christ shuns Pharisees and abhors Judas Iscariots.  AB11246

Christ did not exercise compulsion regarding Judas Iscariot and His brothers, but they deprived themselves.   AB02183

Judas Iscariot and Peter were both sons of the kingdom, but Peter was the real son. Judas was the material son, consequently he was deprived.  ABU1182

how many people were very pure souls in the beginning but later turned away from it, like Judas Iscariot who was very good in the beginning but very bad in the end  ABU0285

"Judas Iscariot in the time of Christ (may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him) was the chief of the apostles, yet in the end sold that embodied Spirit for a few dirhams"   AB02679

Remember thou that Judas Iscariot was the head of the disciples, and their example. How then his feet stumbled and he fell from the Path, so that he shed the blood of Christ!  AB10276

Remember that Judas Iscariot was the chief of the Apostles and their exemplar, yet how his feet slipped and he fell from the straight path until he participated in the blood of Christ.  AB10672

Judas Iscariot was for a long time favored in the holy court of His Holiness Christ, yet he was entirely far and remote; while Paul, the apostle, was in close embrace with His Holiness.  AB02307

Jesus Christ, through his spiritual power, taught a few in his time, through in reality there were only twelve disciples, one of whom Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him, thus leaving eleven who remained with the Master.   ABU1385

A question was asked regarding the elder brother and the Master replied: In any cycle or time someone has shown pride. In the time of Christ it was Judas. In the days of the Blessed Perfection, Subhi Ezel. Now it is the head of the Nakazeen [Mirza Muhammad 'Ali].   ABU1559

Had the doors of comfort and wealth been opened to the apostles of Christ, how could the sincerity of Peter the Apostle have been distinguished from the treachery of Judas Iscariot? The virtues of the former and vices of the latter were only revealed through tests and trials. This is among the wisdom behind the appearance of tests in the human world. AB06438

The case of all of them resembleth the violation of the Covenant by Judas Iscariot and his followers. Consider: hath any result or trace remained after them? Not even a name hath been left by his followers and although a number of Jews sided with him it was as if he had no followers at all. This Judas Iscariot who was the leader of the apostles betrayed Christ for thirty pieces of silver. Take heed, O ye people of perception!   AB00208

Judas Iscariot was the greatest of the disciples, and he summoned the people to Christ. Then it seemed to him that Jesus was showing increasing regard to the Apostle Peter, and when Jesus said, 'Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My church,' these words addressed to Peter, and this singling out of Peter for special honour, had a marked effect on the Apostle, and kindled envy within the heart of Judas. For this reason he who had once drawn nigh did turn aside, and he who had believed in the Faith denied it, and his love changed to hate, until he became a cause of the crucifixion of that glorious Lord, that manifest Splendour.  AB00872
