
We have promised mankind the Day of Justice   BB00439

Justice is to give to every rightful one his due  AB10632

Now is the time for firmness and steadfastness in justice and fairness toward humankind  AB12528


justice and fairness will raise its banner at the pole of the world   AB04352

this Most Great Dispensation ... is one of justice and equality  AB11202

May the earth become one homeland, and may justice and right encompass the human world.  AB12315

that justice and equity may prevail, and that oppression and tyranny may vanish and be no more  AB06630

"They who cast aside justice and embraced tyranny have lost - they are among the perishing ones."  BH06939

Both sides must act with reciprocity of justice and equity, so that all may live in utmost happiness.   AB04851

The oppressors shall soon behold the recompense of their deeds from the presence of a just and mighty Lord.   BH02298

Be not distressed by the tyranny of oppressors. God lies in wait - soon will He cast them all into the flames  BH06461

The radiant sun of his equity rises high, and he is the humiliator and vanquisher of the people of oppression.   AB02771

In any case, every deed has its recompense, and every evil act has its consequent blow - divine justice demands this.  AB00522

The Lord of the Kingdom afflicts every audacious slanderer with abundant punishment. This is required by divine justice.  AB02353

The Kingdom of God is founded upon equity and justice, and also upon mercy, compassion, and kindness to every living soul.  AB00890

Divine confirmation and success come through justice and the seeking of justice. And God is the protector of the oppressed.  AB01241

Soon shall the Sun of Power shine forth from the horizon of God's Will and illumine the whole world with the lights of justice.  BH06985

He hath appeared with that Justice wherewith mankind hath been adorned, and yet the people are, for the most part, asleep.   BH04820

Therefore we must all live in the utmost of happiness and comfort under a just rule and regulation in accordance with the laws of God  ABU1527

Verily, the darkness of injury and error was uncovered by the light of equity and justice, and the government put on the garment of probity.   AB02845

All are equal in the estimation of God; their rights are one and there is no distinction for any soul; all are protected beneath the justice of God.  AB11089

guide thee along the path of justice and fairness. This is the mark of the pure ones and the attribute of those drawn nigh at the Supreme Threshold   AB04200

Today the cry of justice is raised high and the lamentation of equity is uplifted. The darkness of oppression hath enveloped the world and its peoples.   BH00927

Through justice commerce thrives, industries are developed, morals are refined, honesty is established, international comity fostered and education popularized.   ABU2628

Such fundamental things that are useful, as equality and freedom, these can be found in the laws of Baha'u'llah. The kings will remain kings, ministers - ministers; the rich - rich; the poor will be in comfort and each person of humanity can find his greatest desire herein.   ABU1508

Strengthen with the abundance of Thy mercy every government which acts with equity towards its subjects, and every dominion under whose flag the poor and weak find protection.  AB06000


"All men are equal before the law, which must reign absolutely." "prince, peer and peasant alike have equal rights to just treatment, there must be no favour shown to individuals."   ABU1959

Between 1860 and 1865 you did a wonderful thing; you knocked the shackles from chattel slavery; but today you must do a much more wonderful thing: you must destroy industrial slavery.   ABU3532

I am hoping that a time will come when there shall be no more distinction of color. The hearts shall have the same color - the color of the Kingdom. The same light shall shine upon all.  ABU0308

O assemblage of princes, take from the mighty the rights of the weak, and suffer not the rich to rule over the poor.  BH00566

now the government must, in gratitude for this divine confirmation, pursue justice and fairness... Likewise, the government must offer complete protection to the oppressed ones of the world   AB02789

We beseech God that you may be assisted and confirmed at all times and under all conditions to serve that great monarch and to secure the rights of nations and justice and equity among peoples  AB07072

For the sinner, divine justice requires punishment and chastisement in whatever form it may take, since punishment is based on human will, not like a lion's nature or inherited characteristics   AB01000

One sitteth upon the seat of glory while another lieth in the dust of abasement, yet when observed with the eye of insight, from the horizon of both doth the sun of justice shine forth resplendent.   BH00307

"The Baha'is are free from all prejudices, are well-wishers of the human world, are lovers of justice and good governance, and praise these qualities from whichever government or nation they may emerge"  AB01217

Fighting, and the employment of force, even for the right cause, will not bring about good results. The oppressed who have right on their side, must not take that right by force; the evil would continue.  ABU3036

Soon the hand of divine justice will manifest that which is the cause of awakening. Now slumber of heedlessness has seized all. Soon they shall find themselves in evident abasement and painful chastisement.   BH02180

Inevitably, complete rules and regulations must be established regarding workers' and laborers' affairs. If companies give workers a share, both strikes will be eliminated and it will cause general progress.   ABU2850

when the sincere purposes and the justice of the sovereign, the knowledge and perfect political efficiency of the ministers of state and the ambition and enthusiasm of the people are all realized at the same time  ABU3180

However, all must be part of an order which will ensure that each lives in complete comfort within his own station. It should not be that the master lives in comfort while the servant is in pain; that is injustice.  ABU1663

that they may unfurl the Divine Banner of justice--that they may realize and treat each nation as a family composed of the individual children of God and may know that before the sight of God the rights of all are equal.  ABU1027

How poor are they [labourers on ship], and how hard they toil! The presidents of factories and other operations must allocate a share [of the profits] for the workers in their companies, so that these poor souls may know some comfort.  ABU3748

The Distinguisher hath appeared and the Balance is set up. All matters are weighed in the divine Balance, and truth is distinguished from falsehood, the blessed from the wretched, the truthful from the false, and the trustworthy from the treacherous.  BH09743

A king at the time of his death wished he was of the poor class. 'I wish I was poor!' he exclaimed. 'In the first place, I would not have ruled with injustice, and, in the second place, at the last moment, I would not be in such a state of remorse and regret!'  ABU2240

Thou confirmest whomsoever Thou willest in justice and fairness, and Thou abasest whomsoever Thou willest through their fall into the abyss of tyranny...facilitate the affairs of every prince who unfurls the standard of justice and rolls up the carpet of tyranny  AB05491

"The successful and justice-spreading leader of that region has truly made that territory a secure city under the shadow of justice...I hope that the fame of his justice-spreading will become the talk of the noble and free ones through the passing of ages and centuries"  AB03671

A prominent figure has explicitly stated that by justice and right we do not mean mere words, but rather the meaning of these two blessed terms. This is true, but the people of truth are not content with meaning alone - they seek the implementation of this important reality  AB12306

there are only two ways of correcting the social conditions: it cannot be force. One is changing the hearts of the people, so that those who have great wealth will give freely and gladly. The other is by executing new and just laws which will regulate all the economic conditions  ABU0124

The solution of economic questions for instance will not be accomplished by array of labor against capital and capital against labor in strife and conflict, but by voluntary attitude of sacrifice upon both sides. Then a real and lasting justness of conditions will be brought about.  ABU0026

All nations must become socialistic in spirit. People must not be forced by circumstances to help the poor. They must give aid willingly. That which the socialists aim to accomplish in the economic world will in time be done by the people freely through faith and love and cooperation.   ABU3190


"I am the Discerner, the All-Knowing. I make manifest and reveal before the face of the world the deeds of the peoples, and I am the Witness, the All-Informed. Not a single atom remaineth but I have brought it forth, and I am the Just, the Upright. The hand of justice hath made me to stand erect in the days of God, the Lord of the worlds."   BH09452

We hope in this luminous age these prejudices will not remain, that the light of love will illumine the world, that the bounty of God's Kingdom will encompass all, that the Lord's mercy will include all, that the human world will be freed from these bonds and follow divine politics, for human politics is imperfect while divine politics is perfect.  ABU0285

You cannot understand now, how the labor saving machines can produce leisure for mankind because at present they are all in the hands of the financiers and are used only to increase profits, but that will not continue. The workers will come into their due benefit from the machine that is the divine intention, and one cannot continue to violate the law of God.  ABU3667

Therefore they say that the world of humanity needs a collective center that will unite individuals and bring about this progress. Now, sometimes this collective center is the homeland - they are compatriots - which indeed serves as a collective center, but only in matters of general benefit or harm. It has no authority in personal matters, no authority over individuals.  ABU1124

The world of humanity is subject to great injustice. There is no justice. Justice is only a name, but in reality it is tyranny. The real fact is that many souls are in the utmost suffering and need, and certain souls are in the utmost leisure and luxury. How can we call this justice? The majority of the people is poor, while a few enjoy immense riches. Can we call this justice and equity?   ABU0034



A certain Pasha, having most unjustly and cruelly beaten one of his servants, was arrested and brought before that just man who represented Britain. To the intense surprise of the Pasha, he himself was sentenced to a term of imprisonment, and told that he richly deserved the punishment. He could not think it possible that so great a person as himself could be sent to prison, and offered a large bribe for his release. This was sternly refused. A much larger sum was offered with the same result, and the unjust lord was compelled to accept the punishment awarded him for his cruelty to his servant. The news of this incident, being noised abroad, did much to show the Eastern people that British justice is in reality the same for the rich and for the poor, and therefore worthy of all respect.  ABU1480

The Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah teaches that the human being - every human being - has a right to peace, freedom, joy and work.  ABU3353

spread the banner of justice   AB11737

Lowliness is the cause of elevation and justice is the source of power. Consider the lowliness of dust - from it pure jewels appear, and from the earth the Manifestations of the names of the Lord of Lords become manifest and evident.  BH05574

And His teachings are these...  Twelfth, the Most Great Justice  AB01419

Ninth, equality of rights, and spiritual solidarity, and heavenly fraternity.   ABU0382

Justice, love and kindness must be the instruments of strength, not of weakness.  ABU1585

Be fair in thy judgment... Be unjust to no man... an ensign of the hosts of justice   BH03420

Take hold of justice and fairness by Our command, for He is the Commander, the Powerful  BH10110

Be just among men, for thus have ye been commanded in all the Tablets, did ye but know.   BH03453

The world hath been adorned with the ornament of justice, yet the people perceive it not.   BH04777

We enjoined upon all men to be just and fair-minded and to fear God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH06324

This servant has never desired aught but truthfulness and justice from any of God's servants   BH00857

We beseech God, exalted be He, to adorn His servants with the ornament of justice and fairness   BH03428

May no trace of oppression remain and may the beloved of justice and fairness appear resplendent  AB01657

We have commanded all to observe pure justice and forbidden them from tyranny in numerous Tablets  BH06063

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to assist His servants to observe justice and fairness  BH10448

Deliver thy Lord's decree with justice, for victory is ordained this day for the believers   BB00439

Whoso attaineth unto justice hath attained unto that which God, the Lord of all beings, hath desired.   BH08691

He desireth naught from His servants save fairness, and He Himself is witness and all-knowing of this.  BH03397

We testify that he walks with the banner of justice on his right and the standard of equity on his left   BH10867

He maketh mention of thee as a bounty from Him and commandeth thee to observe justice and righteousness.   BH09246

the sovereign of justice speaketh the truth and summoneth the people unto God, the One, the All-Informed   BH08871

treat each other with justice and fairness, and give up the dictates of selfishness and personal interest  ABU1256

God willing, may the servants be adorned with the ornament of justice and be assisted to act with fairness  BH06112

This is a Book which God hath sent down in truth, wherein He commandeth men to observe justice and piety.   BH03892

We counsel thee to observe justice and fairness and that which thou hast been commanded in the Book of God   BH01877

"I hope that you will some day be able to hinder such actions, and thus enable justice to reign everywhere."  ABU1896

Through his justice the fragrances of tranquility have wafted over all who dwell within the realm of possibility.  BH06817

He commandeth you to observe justice, even as He commanded you aforetime. He, verily, is the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH08221

When the standard of justice is raised, the hosts of fancy and idle imagination will flee. Blessed are they who know   BH04340

Justice, like the phoenix, existeth in name but not in reality. Equity, like the philosopher's stone, is rare indeed.   BH07474

"The ruling power or government cannot treat the rich unjustly. To force them to divide their wealth would be unjust."  ABU3026

Through the benevolent exertions of these souls, the world is radiant and luminous with the light of justice and equity.  BH11804

God is just and kind to all. He considers all as His servants. He excludes none, and His judgments are correct and true.  ABU0268

He hath commanded all to observe justice and fairness, and to practice that which is prescribed in His perspicuous Book.   BH04028

through whom the breeze wafted, the Word was uplifted, the sun of justice shone forth, and the river of equity overflowed  BH01649

Otherwise, the protection of society from the harmful actions of such persons falls to the centers of justice and equity.  ABU1691

God willing, the hand of aggressive people shall fall short, and the power of justice shall become triumphant and manifest.  AB11791

Fear ye God, O concourse of the ignorant ones! Deal fairly in that which hath appeared with truth, and be not of the losers   BH06041

O Lord! Adorn them with the ornament of justice and fairness, and illumine their hearts with the lights of gifts and favors.  BH02524

We beseech God, exalted be His glory, not to deprive His creation and to adorn them with the ornament of justice and fairness.  BH02073

We judge between people as We please and summon them unto that which shall profit them in the world to come and in this world.   BH05343

No indeed, by God's Justice! None will be punished for another's deeds, nor will any be chastised for another's transgressions.  BHU0061

Such a basis, He said, would inevitably result in the structure of a new social justice - and a new individual love and justice.  ABU3626

Soon shall the wrongdoer return to the lowest depths, and sovereignty shall remain with God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH06402

We enjoin upon you and those who have believed pure justice... they will not deviate from the Straight Path nor transgress justice   BH03195

We beseech Him, blessed and exalted be He, to adorn His servants with the light of justice and fairness and draw them nigh unto Him  BH02525

God willing, thou wilt transform the darkness of oppression and discord in all regions into the light of justice and unity.   BH05217

Hold fast unto pure justice and unto that which ye have been commanded in the Book. He hath enjoined upon you righteousness and piety   BH02426

to change the throne of tyranny into a center of justice, and the seat of pride and iniquity into the chair of humbleness and justice.  ABU2921

In the estimation of God all men are equal. There is no distinction or preference for any soul, in the realm of His justice and equity  AB11562

Similarly when the government represents the ideals of progress and justice, the people will advance and co-operate in their dealings.   ABU2685

Verily, He commandeth His servants to justice and righteousness, and to that whereby their names shall be recorded in the Book of Names.  BH11387

No light can compare with the light of justice. The establishment of order in the world and the tranquillity of the nations depend upon it.  BH00005

Do not yield to the overwhelming power of tyranny and despotism. Serve the cause of democracy and freedom. Continue your journey to the end.  ABU2031

Those who are people of peace and righteousness and who desire prosperity and success for all do not deserve conflict and the edge of weapons  AB00771

the glory be upon thee and upon all who are fair-minded and transgress not the decree of justice in God's Cause and are among the God-fearing   BH02459

Justice requireth that judgment be passed upon him, and equity demandeth retribution for his deeds, that security and peace may be established.  BH11114

Thus were Pharaoh and his hosts drowned as recompense for their deeds. Verily God seized him for his sin and delivered Moses and his companions  BH07946

Evil is that which they have wrought, and they shall have no portion of this Great Sea. Discrimination hath vanished and justice hath perished.  BH06137

Then the whole world would have applauded Russia and then it would have been proven that Russia was sincere in declaring her former intentions.   ABU2652

Perdition unto the people who wronged Thee after the balance of justice was established through Thee in the days of Thy Lord, the Most Glorious.   BH06621

Soon will the true Omnipotent One purify the earth and cause the sun of justice to appear to all the world from behind the clouds of oppression.   BH01348

We counsel him and My loved ones to observe justice and fairness and that whereby the glory of My party shall be made manifest amidst all parties.   BH03346

through whose light the morn hath breathed and the Sun of Knowledge hath shone forth from the horizon of the providence of God, the Lord of all worlds   BH06967

Soon will the effulgences of the Orb of Justice encompass and illumine the horizons. This is among the irrevocable decrees of God, exalted be His glory.   BH03753

Know that justice means to give to everyone their due right. For example, when a laborer works from morning until evening, justice requires that his wages be paid.  AB00779

"We beseech God to aid them, to make them successful, and to make them among those who hold fast to the cord of justice and cling to the hem of fairness."  BH05586

In many countries of the West, laws are enacted to restrict the cruelty of man toward animals and in some states they are hunted only at certain seasons.   ABU1459

I beseech for them that which will cause the fields of knowledge to become verdant and flourishing and the gardens of justice and fairness to become fresh.   BH01577

Ere long will God, exalted be His glory, adorn the embodiments of oppression with the raiment of justice and the temples of tyranny with the ornament of equity.   BH02559

We beseech God not to deprive His servants of the splendors of the Sun of Justice, that all may consider with fairness that which hath appeared and been revealed.   BH04169

O Lord! Illumine the face of the earth with the lights of the sun of Thy justice and adorn its thrones with the temples of the dawning-places of truth and fairness   BH02282

All praise, thanksgiving, mention, glorification, tribute and honor befit the Peerless Beloved, Who hath illumined the world of existence with the light of justice.   BH00531

A group of friends offer endless praise for the excellent conduct, excellent policy and justice of His Excellency the Chosen One, and express complete satisfaction.   AB11901

The laws of individual justice were confused and preliminary in the souls of men. Therefore, the law of general justice of the community was revealed by this Prophet.  ABU2396

it should be resolved with goodwill, chivalry, justice and kindness...considering the character traits, qualities, chivalry and justice that we are commanded to embody  AB01464

It is the lamp of God among you and the light of justice for you, were ye of those who remember. Consider ye the justice of God and His mercy which encompasseth the worlds.  BH08693

Justice is to be praised and cherished, whether it comes from a native of the country or from a stranger. A just stranger is a brother, and an oppressive brother is a stranger.  AB12107

Justice, like the phoenix, naught remaineth of it save its name, and equity hath taken flight to the pavilions of glory, seeking refuge from the talons of the birds of darkness.  BH08750

Still another principle centers around right and justice, equality and the preference of others to one's self and this should be willingly exercised and should not be compulsory.   AB00374

For years justice had been deprived and no trace of it was found. Praise be to God, in these days it hath appeared from the horizon of power with standards and banners of victory.   BH02299

Justice is an everlasting fruit for the divine Tree of sovereignty and greatness. The just king is the lamp of the world and the cause of the reformation and prosperity of nations.   BH11271

Justice is to be loved above all. Praise be to God, in this country the standard of justice has been raised; a great effort is being made to give all souls an equal and a true place.  ABU1120

It is well with a country when the magistrates are as fathers to the people. There is a great spiritual light in London, and the ideal of justice is strong in the hearts of the people.  ABU1480

For that balanced stature there is no garment more befitting than abundant justice, and for that royal crown there is no diadem more brilliant than coming to the aid of the oppressed.   AB12132

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for that through Thy grace and will the sun of justice hath shone forth from the horizon of bounty, and the light of equity through Thy bounty and favor.   BH03054

They are ever observant of justice and fairness... They should hold fast to justice, kindness and fairness so that all may attest to that which bespeaks the loftiness of human station.   BH01683

"We hope that through the all-encompassing hidden bounties, the lights of justice and fairness will shine forth and what befits the oppressed party will become manifest and determined."  AB03244

The world hath been enveloped by the smoke of tyranny, and the fire of malicious souls hath been kindled. God willing, the hand of power shall extinguish it and return it to nothingness.   BH08894

The crown of Iran is justice, not stones. If they can place a crown of justice upon this nation's head, that is proper. The ancient kings of Iran took pride in justice, not in a crown of stone.  ABU2249

Through the light of Faith justice is established. For if one has one grain of Faith in his heart, if they oblige him with the point of bayonet to act unjustly toward another he will not do it.   ABU3374

We counsel him who hath turned towards the Most Sublime Horizon to observe the Most Great Trustworthiness and that whereby the lights of justice may shine forth among all the tribes of the earth.   BH08703

We have mentioned that which aids the servants to practice justice and fairness... Through good character the stations of creation are revealed, and through justice their ranks are made manifest.   BH07629

Justice and equity are twin Guardians that watch over men. From them are revealed such blessed and perspicuous words as are the cause of the well-being of the world and the protection of the nations.  BH00005

In times when the fire of hatred is inflamed, they should send their petition to His Majesty the Sultan so that he may be informed of what has befallen them... they should seek justice from the Sultan.  BH02921

We ask God to endow human souls with justice so that they may be fair, and may strive to provide for the comfort of all, that each member of humanity may pass his life in the utmost comfort and welfare.  ABU0042

A man may give $1,000 without minding it but he should not yield even a dollar to the person who wishes to take it wrongfully, for such wrongful behavior flouts justice and disrupts the order of the world.  ABU3461

This is the station of justice, that is, giving to each one his due, and this is the station of the ordering of creation after its coming into being, and the degrees of destiny in creation and origination.   BH00330

Close investigation will show that the primary cause of oppression and injustice, of unrighteousness, irregularity and disorder, is the people's lack of religious faith and the fact that they are uneducated.  AB00004

Today is the Day of Justice, yet the demons of tyranny have oppressed the angels of justice...However, this oppression shall not endure. Ere long the light of the Sun of Justice shall illumine the darkened world.  BH08547

O Lord! Adorn them with the ornament of justice and equity... to transform the seat of tyranny into the throne of Thy justice, and the chair of heedlessness and oppression into the seat of submission and equity.   BH04461

Knowledge is its heaven and justice is its sun. The clouds of the desires of souls have prevented the sun of justice from shining forth, such that it remaineth concealed while the world is afflicted and entangled.  BH06484

Justice and fairness are as two wings for the servants of God, and blessed is the state of the soul that hath attained unto these twain and become detached from all that is in the world and in the realm of creation.  BH11766

We beseech God--glorified be His majesty--to adorn His servants with the ornament of justice and fairness... Blessed is he who hath adorned his head with the crown of justice and his temple with the ornament of fairness.   BH05022

The tabernacle of world order is upheld upon two pillars: reward and punishment. Such matters pertain to the monarchs of the age. They are the manifestations of God's power and the dawning-places of His divine majesty.   BH01118

While man might become a centre for good, for amity, he fights like ferocious beasts for the right to land. God wishes man to establish just equality, not to transgress laws, to help one another and live together in love.  ABU1805

Nevertheless, it is not right that some should be extremely wealthy while others extremely poor. It must be improved and such laws established that all have comfort and wellbeing... This must be implemented through laws.   ABU0462

since His Imperial Majesty the Shah has implemented such justice and fairness, and of his own accord freed that divine servant from chains and bonds, and his oppressed state became known and evident in the royal presence   AB11644

O people! Be among mankind with pure justice, such that neither treachery and enmity, nor backbiting and hatred, nor sedition and misery shall appear from you, that ye may be the standards of guidance among the people.  BH02557


"The purpose of this Revelation is that the clouds of oppression may be lifted away and the Sun of Justice may shine forth from behind the veil, that all the peoples of the world may abide in the cradle of security and peace."  BH08563

By God, the Truth, judge ye fairly - which of the two souls among the two parties was praiseworthy around the fire? Verily the Truth made known to him in the Sacred Mosque the vision of justice concerning the Most Great Truth.  BB00002

"In every matter one must behave with utmost truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness and fairness which attracts progress and confirmation...the light of justice and fairness would dispel the smoke of oppression and tyranny."   ABU0535

If words were sufficient, all are ambitious, all are philanthropic, all speak of fairness, all talk of justice. Now, can things be made right just by talking? If words were sufficient, humanity should have attained true prosperity.  ABU1252

I truly say that this servant hath, from the earliest days until now, summoned the people of Iran to justice and fairness. In truth, whosoever is not adorned with these two blessed attributes hath not been and is not accounted among men.   BH02254

But the community as a whole must enact a set of defensive laws for the protection and safeguard of the rights and property of the individual. Such laws will have a salutary and deterrent influence over the minds of the lawless and unrestrained.  ABU2175

By the life of God! No hosts in the world have been or shall be mightier than the hosts of justice and wisdom. Had the kings of the world held fast unto these two, all the peoples of the earth would have attained unto supreme tranquility and the greatest ease.  BH00219

Just as forgiveness is one of the attributes of God's mercy, so is justice one of the attributes of His lordship. The canopy of existence rests upon the pole of justice, and not of forgiveness, and the life of mankind depends on justice and not on forgiveness.   AB00090

they must govern and conduct affairs in the manner of the people of truth, so that through justice, fairness, mercy, absence of oppression, good governance, wisdom, strength of judgment and steadfastness, they may become distinguished among their peers and equals  AB09913

You must neither defraud your neighbour nor allow him to defraud you. Such was the way of your Master. The shrewdest and ablest of men were unable to deceive Him, nor did He on His part choose to act ungenerously towards the meanest and most helpless of creatures.  BBU0013

The true crown of Iran is justice, not gems. If they could place a crown of justice upon this nation, that would be fitting. What benefit is there in a crown of stones? It is but stone. The ancient kings of Iran prided themselves on justice, not on crowns of jewels.  ABU1267

Ultimately, war will be entirely banned, and when the laws of the Most Holy Book are enacted, arguments and disputes will, with perfect justice, be settled before a universal tribunal of governments and peoples, and any difficulties which may arise will be resolved.   AB00091


However, justice, which is a requirement - as in the case of the permission for plural marriage in the Book of God being conditional upon justice - and since justice is impossible to achieve, therefore one must be content with one spouse. This is better for you, if ye be fair-minded.  AB10410

O oppressed servants throughout all regions! On the Day of Reckoning He summons all unto the Lord of Creation. The purpose is that those possessed of sight and hearing may with justice and fairness hearken unto the divine verses and reflect upon that which hath been made manifest.  BH10801

Know thou with clear certainty that these great oppressions prepare the way for supreme justice. The tyranny of Pharaoh prepared the way for the justice of Moses, and the hand of power brought forth from his house that which he strove with all his might to avoid and whose removal he sought.   BH00743

"A judge must be no 'respecter of persons', but administer the law with strict impartiality in every case brought before him." "the law must punish him in order to prevent a repetition of that same crime by others, as the pain of the individual is unimportant beside the general welfare of the people."   ABU1959

In all the laws of the world, affirmative testimony takes precedence over negative testimony. His brothers and wife testify affirmatively that he was a Baha'i, while others deny it. Affirmative witnesses take precedence over negative witnesses - their testimony is accepted, others' testimony is rejected.  AB00582

"From the heaven of every Tablet hath shone forth the Sun of justice, and We have enjoined upon all to observe it and to practice fairness" "Had the loved ones held fast to the counsels recorded in the Tablets, they would now behold the world adorned and illumined with the light of justice and fairness."   BH01896

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy power that hath encompassed all created things, by Thy sovereignty that hath surrounded all existence, and by the sovereignty of the Names whereby Thou hast subdued earth and heaven, to adorn Thy servants with the effulgences of the Day-Star of justice and equity.   BH02262

Mention of justice and its influence brought boundless joy. Detached souls are educated under the shadow of the sun of justice, and through those souls the world is renewed and the orb of fairness appears. In this case, all will observe themselves in the cradle of peace and security with perfect joy and delight.  BH01190



We hope that thou wilt cause the light of justice to shine more brightly. By the righteousness of God! Justice is a powerful force. It is, above all else, the conqueror of the citadels of the hearts and souls of men, and the revealer of the secrets of the world of being, and the standard-bearer of love and bounty.  BH00005

He hath ordained for every soul that which beseemeth it, and He, verily, is the Just One in what He hath decreed in the preserved Tablets of glory. He wrongeth no one by so much as a grain of mustard seed, but people wrong their own selves. He hath commanded them to observe justice and goodness, yet they act not accordingly.  BH05766

The enemies are delighted that ownerless property hath fallen to them. Have they not heard the decisive, mighty proclamation which saith: "For him who is slain unjustly, We have given authority to his heir." Soon shall the heir claim his inheritance and uproot oppression. "Their appointed time is the morning - is not the morning near?"   BH01736

Especially since today the greatest justification for the intervention of powerful civilized nations in other countries is precisely this: that to witness a country and nation in a state of chaos and anarchy despite civilization and capability, and to remain at peace, is far from justice and outside the duty of civilized and educated people  ABU1441

Intelligence is the first interpreter, and from it justice is made manifest, and through justice are ordered the affairs of nations. Blessed is the soul that hath been adorned with the ornament of justice and illumined with the light of intelligence. This raiment is, in the first degree, the most excellent adornment for the temples of kings.   BH01080

Set before thine eyes God's unerring Balance and, as one standing in His Presence, weigh in that Balance thine actions every day, every moment of thy life. Bring thyself to account ere thou art summoned to a reckoning, on the Day when no man shall have strength to stand for fear of God, the Day when the hearts of the heedless ones shall be made to tremble.  BH00021

We beseech God, exalted be His glory, to confirm thee in that which shall cause the turning of souls unto Him and the unity and fellowship of hearts. God willing, rely wholly upon Him and resign thyself completely to His will, detached from all else. Strive at all times that perchance the tyranny of the world may be transformed into justice and the oppression of nations into equity.   BH00589

God hath prescribed justice unto you, that ye harm no soul even to the extent of a grain, even if one should but lay a hand upon another's shoulder. Whoso transgresseth, it is prescribed that he pay nineteen mithqals of gold, and if he be not able to pay in gold, then in silver, and to restore unto him whom he hath wronged the limit set forth in the Book of God, that ye may not transgress.  BB00056

There are two mighty banners which, when they cast their shadow across the crown of any king, will cause the influence of his government quickly and easily to penetrate the whole earth, even as if it were the light of the sun: the first of these two banners is wisdom; the second is justice. Against these two most potent forces, the iron hills cannot prevail, and Alexander's wall will break before them.  AB00004


Today the bird of justice is caught in the talons of oppression. The dark clouds have prevented its light from shining. If the people of the world become ready and capable of receiving this most great bounty and supreme gift, in that very moment the lights of the Sun of Justice will shine forth from behind the veil of clouds, and the darkness of oppression by treacherous souls will return to nothingness, like a shadow when the sun shines forth.  BH02497

"The Laws of God are not imposition of will, or of power, or pleasure, but the resolutions of truth, reason and justice." "All men are equal before the law, which must reign absolutely." "Kings must rule with wisdom and justice; prince, peer and peasant alike have equal rights to just treatment, there must be no favour shown to individuals." "When perfect justice reigns in every country of the Eastern and Western World, then will the earth become a place of beauty."   ABU1959

The orb of justice has risen and shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of supreme statecraft, yet the veils of heedless souls--that is, the turning away of those evil ones--have concealed its rays. What has been the cause of deprivation, and what the reason for prevention? There can be no doubt that the All-Bountiful Lord, exalted be His favor and magnificent His grace, created the world for the sole purpose of recognition and the manifestations of justice and fairness.   BH00615


The supreme concern of any government must be the establishment of equal justice and equal opportunity amongst its citizens. Justice is the light of a nation, the lamp burning amongst the people; justice is the sun, through the light of which progress is secured and peace obtained. That nation is honored and respected above all others which practices strict justice and mercy in all its dealings with outside world. By justice a nation is exalted, attaining to the pinnacle of eternal glory. The path of Justice is the golden path of Universal salvation.   ABU2628

Justice is not limited, it is a universal quality. Its operation must be carried out in all classes, from the highest to the lowest. Justice must be sacred, and the rights of all the people must be considered. Desire for others only that which you desire for yourselves. Then shall we rejoice in the Sun of Justice, which shines from the Horizon of God. Each man has been placed in a post of honor, which he must not desert. A humble workman who commits an injustice is as much to blame as a renowned tyrant. Thus we all have our choice between justice and injustice.  ABU0253

Praise be to God that in all conditions the hands of divine justice are engaged among the servants in executing that which they are bidden, and in distinguishing and separating between the manifestations of tyranny and justice. Glory be to Him Who hath cast away oppression and chosen justice for the preservation of His servants and the development of His lands! Peace, remembrance and glory be upon you and upon those who have held fast to the cord of justice and fairness and have acted according to that which they were commanded in the Book of God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH05734

God willing, may the standard of justice and the banner of wisdom be witnessed before the faces of each of you, and assuredly through these pure deeds and holy, sanctified characteristics, the lights of justice which have been veiled and concealed by the oppression of the oppressors shall shine forth through the divine name. Then shall ye see the earth transformed into another earth, and the atoms shall cry out with the most exalted call: "The horizon of justice hath been illumined by the sun of the remembrance of our Lord, the Mighty, the Manifest, the Hearing, the All-Seeing!"   BH00469

The reform will have to start with the land, the source of all wealth. I should like to develop an agrarian community, founded on perfect justice. The government must be concerned for the resources of nature. Those who make great discoveries, like the discovery of a rich mine, should receive a large portion for their enterprise. The rest should go to the government, for all the people.  ABU3764
 
