soon shall they be summoned before the seat of justice where the Balance shall be set up by the command of the Mighty, the Wise   BH02766

Behold those who were unjust of old - their traces have been effaced, their roofs have fallen in, and their couches have been rolled up until the flames encompassed them. Soon shall the breezes of torment seize these who have denied God. Verily thy Lord is severe in punishment   BH01938

Verily thy Lord lieth in wait.   BH06930

We beseech God to bestow justice.  BH11923

God would deal with him with justice  AB11252

But God first punished him in this way   ABU1491

Soon the recompense of his deeds will seize him.  BH10104

God shall soon seize them with justice from His presence  BH10227

the limbs of the oppressors trembled at His justice  BH11180

"whilst it increaseth naught in the oppressors save loss"  BH10737

Seize them through Thy power, might, wrath and vengeance.   BH09563

to seize their enemies with utter abasement and retribution   BH06191

We beseech God to grant justice and not deprive His servants   BH09567

Soon shall punishment descend upon them from every direction.   BH06496

the people of the cities of justice and fairness have lamented   BH07430

By God's life! He will seize the wrongdoers with manifest might.   BH04056

God shall soon seize the oppressors with His wrath from His presence   BH07944

God, exalted be His glory, made this imprisonment the cause of freedom   BH10971

"The essence of justice is witnessed beneath the talons of oppression."  BH06844

Rest assured that that unjust one will be seized by divine retribution.  AB11794

Read, my daughter, the Holy Books of mankind; as a Christian study particularly the New Testament; show me, where does the great Master Jesus speak of the "Wrath of God"? But rather of the all-consuming love of the Father for His lost son!  ABU3429

We shall seize those who have wronged with a mighty grasp from Our presence.  BH11828

Soon will God seize those who have wronged, and raise up those who were oppressed  BH06309

The servant testifies to the oneness and singleness of God, His justice and bounty   BH05245

for this God hath seized him by His command, for He is the most severe of avengers   BH03373

Praise be to God, the evil ones have received and are receiving their just deserts   AB02356

Verily thy Lord, when He chastiseth His servants, is called by His name the Just One  BH11008

Verily, Thy grace hath preceded Thy justice, and Thy mercy hath preceded Thy wrath.   BH10282

The oppressors have wrought upon Kazim that which hath caused all things to cry out   BH08520

Soon shall the wrath and anger of God seize them. He is the most severe of avengers.  BH04147

This indeed is unshakeable justice. For grievous indeed is thy Lord's chastisement.   BB00459

Soon He will seize all according to their deeds. Verily thy Lord is the Just, the Wise.   BH08147

He is the All-Knowing, the All-Seeing, and for every deed He has ordained a recompense.   BH06538

after a universal revolution the Sun of Justice shall dawn from the horizon of the unseen  BH10673

There has been and will be no remedy for divine wrath...Verily He is the Just, the Wise.   BH08658

unto everyone is rendered their due right, their proper station, and their befitting grace   BH10395

For each is a portion in the Book. He, verily, is the Just, the Munificent, the Bountiful.   BH09341

Thy mercy hath preceded Thy wrath, Thy loving-kindness Thy fury, and Thy grace Thy justice.  BH02283

God will soon seize them with a justice from Him. He, verily, is the Almighty, the Powerful.  BH06354

O God, Thy judgment is justice and Thy decree is final and there is no averting Thy command   BB00587

We enjoined upon all men to be just and fair-minded and to fear God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH06079

The justice of this Wronged One hath shone forth even as the sun from the horizon of equity.   BH08533

Abasement hath overtaken them after they had testified that Thou art the Mighty, the All-Wise   BH09405

God shall soon transform it into supreme sorrow. He, verily, is the All-Powerful, the Almighty  BH08935

And I beseech Thee, O God, for all Thy justice against the enemies of Muhammad and his family   BB00432

Soon shall he witness his punishment. Verily thy Lord is the Avenger, the Mighty, the Subduer.   BH06337

The wrongdoers shall soon behold the recompense of their deeds. Verily thy Lord lieth in wait.   BH04483

The subtle suffering is hatred, anger, fear, and torment which follow evil actions of the soul.  ABU3404

But as for him who sowed corruption and killed - verily he hath met the recompense of his deeds   BH05976

Although this evil state in which I am, O my God, maketh me deserving of Thy wrath and punishment  BH10889

They did that which caused God to lament, yet We concealed it. Verily thy Lord is the Concealer.   BH06972

Justice is to give to each one his due, while grace is bestowal without deservedness or capacity.  AB09502

The wrath of God is the erroneous designation for logic, causality, in brief, the justice of God.   ABU2114

Soon shall the oppressor witness the supreme remorse and the oppressed the most great glad-tidings.  BH07275

Soon shall they find themselves in the clutches of death and receive the recompense of their deeds.  BH04615

Glory be unto him who hath shown justice in the Cause of God, the Lord of what was and what shall be   BH10321

When thou hearest the decree of justice, verily the decree of the oppressors this day shall diminish.   BB00477

We beseech God to grant you your rights from him. Verily He is the Just, the Mighty, the All-Powerful.   BH10894

The judgment of justice is given as a recompense, as money is paid for a debt for something equivalent   ABU2188

He hath spoken forth that whereby the balance of justice hath been established between earth and heaven   BH07696

We beseech God to cut off their posterity, even as He cut off the posterity of the transgressing people.  AB01948

Verily We have sent down the Book of Justice wherein are ordinances from Our presence for people who act   BB00492

God shall judge between all with justice on the Day of Resurrection, and thy Lord wrong not His servants.   BB00399

Thy mercy hath preceded Thy god-fearing servants and Thy vengeance is assured against Thy proud servants.   BB00338

Soon shall the oppressors behold the recompense of their deeds. Verily, thy Lord is the Just, the All-Wise   BH01806

The divines assembled to harm Us, but God seized them with justice - verily He is the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH08225

How many a servant was prevented by Thy decree from turning unto Thee, in requital for his deeds in Thy days  BH11670

Looking from this horizon upon those who have wronged Us, He shall assuredly seize them through His justice.   BH11495

Woe unto her and unto those who have taken her as their leader without any proof from God, the Lord of lords!  BH08075

The blasts of chastisement shall assail them from all sides: He, verily, is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH10052

Ere long shall the hand of justice decree the punishment that is due. Shame upon you and upon every oppressor!   BH09154

"Until the warriors return from the battlefield, it would be far from justice and fairness to give you dates."   ABU0884

O Lord! The fire of tyranny hath been kindled in the world - where is the light of Thy justice, O Ancient King?   BH04420

Thus have We seized them in requital for their deeds. Soon shall they find themselves in an irrevocable torment.   BH09134

Doth the wrongdoer think he hath profited? Nay, by My Self! Soon shall punishment seize him from every direction.  BH07900

Ere long will the oppressor return to his abode, and the radiance of the Sun of Justice will illumine the world.   BH04831

This is the recompense of their deeds in His days. Verily He is the Single, the One, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH02241

Shouldst Thou deal with us with Thy justice, we are all naught but sinners and deserving to be shut out from Thee   AB07304

Soon shall they behold the recompense of their calumnies from the presence of the Just, the Equitable, the Wise One.  BH05618

We rained down upon him from the heaven of justice the arrows of tribulation - evil was the rain of those who warn.   BH04715

Soon shall We seize them with the power that proceedeth from Us. Verily, thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH04157

God shall soon seize them with a justice from His presence. Verily, He is the Almighty, doing whatsoever He willeth.  BH03767

Because of your arrogance, God will shortly destroy your sovereignty and a revolution shall be set up in that kingdom   ABU1415

Were I not beholding Thee, I would have destroyed the wicked ones and delivered My chosen ones from the fiery letters.   BH11003

Verily it judgeth between the servants with pure justice, and it is indeed the Judge from God, the Mighty, the Praised   BH09525

Erelong will ye witness the result of your deeds; for the Lord, My God, lieth in wait and is watchful of your behavior.  BH10135

Soon shall you find the wrongdoers in the lowest depths of the fire. Thus has the matter been decreed in the Mother Book.  BH04855

He shall lay hold on the wrongdoers, even as He laid hold on him that was their chief; He, truly, is severe in punishing!  BH04720

In his reign, oppression hath no place and tyranny no splendor. His sovereignty hath excelled in justice and beneficence.   BH05999

they have imprisoned the Author of the Word with manifest injustice while occupying themselves with His former commandments   BH10726

By the life of God! They are, in the Book of God, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling, among the companions of the fire.  BH07406

Soon they shall see the recompense of their deeds. Verily God is the Just, the Ruler, the Avenger, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH01093

Let not the deeds of the wrongdoers grieve thee. God shall soon seize them with His might. Verily He is severe in punishment.   BH05159

Were it not for My mercy, We would send down chastisement upon them, but We grant them respite, looking to the appointed time   BH03439

Prayer for divine justice against oppressors: "O Lord! Set upon him a dog from among dogs to crush his bones with its fangs."   AB00483

No indeed, by God's Justice! None will be punished for another's deeds, nor will any be chastised for another's transgressions.  BHU0061


Then were the people of Paradise admitted therein, and the denizens of the Fire consigned to their abode. This is clear justice.   BH10386

"God shall soon replace injustice with justice and shall manifest him who shall arise to serve the Cause at eventide and at dawn."   BH04592

Soon shall they find their deeds when the hand of thy Lord's power shall seize them - this is a promise that shall not prove false   BH03793

By My glory and grandeur and majesty: at the moment when I gaze upon thee, I see no one possessed of sin upon the face of the earth   BH11382

Soon shall appear upon the faces of the sinful the dust of fire, and tribulation shall seize them from every direction nigh at hand   BH06531

"I swear by Thy glory! Wert Thou to look upon them with the eye of justice, all would deserve Thy wrath and the rod of Thine anger."  BH05715

Praise be unto Him Who is worthy and deserving, Who hath educated the world through justice and adorned it with the lights of grace.  BH06133

This is one of the stringent and inescapable commandments to neglect which would draw down the wrathful indignation of Almighty God.  AB03494

Although the wavering ones are full of evil, shameless and proud, yet leave them to the jealous Lord. Verily thy Lord lieth in wait.   AB06703

If a person commit a transgression, he has been unjust unto himself and soon he will find that he is in manifest regret and remorse.   AB01771

God shall soon erase the traces of them who have disbelieved and shall manifest the station of every servant who hath turned unto God   BH06377

"The embodiment of tyranny sitteth enthroned upon the seat of oppression while justice, poor and forlorn, hath withdrawn to a corner."  BH02876

The darkness of oppression and error has been dispelled by the light of justice and fairness, and just authority has been established.  AB02389

God hath seized the source of oppression, and He shall soon seize those who followed him without any clear proof or enlightening Book.   BH02748

Such oppression hath appeared as hath caused the liver of justice to melt. To this beareth witness the Lord of the unseen and the seen.   BH09690

He exalts whomsoever He willeth and abases whomsoever He willeth...He hath established His Cause with justice throughout all the worlds   BH07440

That oppression caused the standard of guidance to be raised high, and that tyranny caused the city of justice and fairness to be built.  AB05820

Children of unbelievers and infidels who die before the age of responsibility are not punished, because they are under the favor of God.  ABU3593

The world hath been encompassed by tyranny, and the clouds of hatred have prevented the lights of the Sun of Justice from shining forth.   BH08591

Assuredly the Just and All-Wise shall take from the oppressor the rights of the oppressed. He, verily, is the All-Powerful, the Almighty.   BH06755

The banner of tyranny hath been rolled up and the light of justice hath shone forth from the horizon of God's will, the Lord of Religions.  BH04268

God shall take vengeance upon them during Our return, and in the world to come He hath prepared for them a grievous chastisement in truth.  BB00002

As to them that have disbelieved, nothing shall profit them save the punishment of thy Lord, and He, verily, is possessed of terrible might.  BH05909

Soon shall they receive the recompense of their deeds... Not an atom's weight of deeds shall remain concealed on God's Day, nor ever shall.   BH02590

Every injustice manifested by an oppressor - leave it to the Truth Itself. The hand of divine justice is all-encompassing and all-pervading.  BH02498

These are the days of grace - we look to grace. Were we to look to justice, not a single word would flow from the Pen of the Ancient of Days.  BH10869

The full account of the Albanian murderer being brought to justice through the persistence of his victim's dog, culminating in his execution   ABU0449

He hath seized the oppressor through His sovereignty and He will seize those who followed him. Verily thy Lord is the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH09530

Make them taste the scourges of Thy wrath and the heat of Thy anger. There is no God but Thee, the Powerful, the Vengeful, the All-Compelling   BH02873

Surely those two just leaders are not content with such oppression and persecution and will cut short the hand of that bloodthirsty oppressor.  AB09307

Soon will God seize those who have acted unjustly and make them a lesson to all who are on earth. Verily, He is the All-Powerful, the Almighty   BH08314

By the Justice and judgment of God those who commit evil suffer and are punished for it and eternal punishment is merited by these evil-doers.   ABU3087

God, glorified be His majesty, in His scriptures and tablets hath commanded His servants to that which leads to their exaltation and ascendancy   BH09649

some have transgressed the divine bounds and have defiled the fortress of divine commands and prohibitions with the clay of their carnal desires  BH08177

Thy justice hath made me fearful. Blessed is the servant with whom Thou dealest with grace, and woe unto him with whom Thou dealest with justice.  BH10154

The Sun of Justice hath set, inasmuch as the embodiment of tyranny hath been established upon the throne of authority through manifest delusion.   BH07805

Yet verily your Lord lies in wait. Soon they shall know who receives a humiliating punishment and is made an example for those who have insight.   AB03572

They that have turned away this Day have no portion in the Book. God will soon seize them with His justice. He, verily, is the Just, the All-Wise   BH07347

They shall behold what they have wrought. Verily thy Lord lieth in wait. He seizeth him who hath disbelieved - verily He is severe in punishment.   BH04298

"If thou wouldst observe with the eye of truth, all people deserve punishment, for they are engaged in oppression, save those whom thy Lord willeth."  BH05692

O people of the earth! Whatever you have spent in the path of God, the Truth, you shall find it preserved in the hands of the Preserver at that Gate.  BB00002

Soon will the luminary of justice shine forth from the horizon of the heaven of divine providence. Then shall they find themselves in manifest error.   BH09437

And verily it is God's mercy unto the righteous and His vengeance unto the wicked. Thus has the matter been decreed by the finger of might and power.   BH07787

Soon shall they who have wronged be made to drink from the cup from which they made My loved ones drink. Thy Lord, verily, is the Just, the All-Wise.   BH06157

God hath seized those who oppressed Us with a mighty grasp from His presence, and will seize those who transgressed against the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH03659

Verily thy Lord hath seized him who manifested oppression and arose in tyranny, and He shall soon seize those who have denied God, the Lord of lords.   BH02246

God created man after His own image and likeness . . . but now, behaving contrarily, man has become more merciless and fearless than rapacious beasts.  ABU1979

Pray, pray that God may not punish His unfaithful servants more than this! that He may pity them! This is indeed a great punishment! Pray, again pray!  ABU0794

Verily He knoweth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is on earth, and He judgeth between all with justice concerning that wherein they differ.   BB00430

"We did seize them with punishment closer at hand, before the greater punishment, that perchance they might return." "Verily thy Lord is ever watchful."   AB03166

No good deed has been or ever will be lost - all are preserved and safeguarded in the treasury of divine knowledge, and their reward shall assuredly come.  BH09173

all events that have occurred have not been without purpose or reason...thou wouldst testify that whatsoever hath happened or will happen is pure justice   BH01685

But those oppressors, nay rather all the people of that land, will be subjected to the most great and severe calamities...punishment is ultimately decreed  AB01321

After listening to their arguments they were astonished and silenced when the heavenly Judge arose from His imperial seat and proclaimed His "Neutrality."  ABU1860

Although the darkness of oppression hath encompassed all regions and the hand of tyranny of the oppressors hath been stretched forth against the oppressed   BH08638

Sorrow not in the oppression thou encountereth, erelong will your Lord take the tyrants. He is verily powerful in His command and He is mighty in prowess.   BH03720

Soon you will see the corrupt ones in manifest loss...so that the corrupt may be distinguished from the righteous, and the ill-wisher from the well-wisher.  AB10937

And if someone does not willingly pay another's rights and wishes to trample them, certainly that right must be obtained through the power of the government.  AB00335

This commission of investigation and oppression was on its way back to Istanbul from 'Akka when the majesty of the justice of God revolutionized all matters.  ABU2863

As for those who disbelieve in God's exalted Gate, We have prepared for them, by God's true decree, a grievous punishment. And He is God, the Mighty, the Wise.  BB00002

He shall establish the truth through His sovereignty and seize those who have disbelieved and then committed injustice. He is, verily, the Subduer, the Mighty.   BH01220

The day is approaching when the wrathful anger of the Almighty will have taken hold of them. He, verily, is the Omnipotent, the All-Subduing, the Most Powerful.  BH10140

Cause whomsoever thou willest to enter into God's mercy, and turn away from the peoples round about Hell, and leave them in the Fire, upon the truth, prostrate.  BB00002

Verily thy Lord will judge between all with justice on the Day of Resurrection, and there shall be no injustice on that Day, and all shall be brought before Us.  BB00516

Soon shall they see the recompense of their deeds, for after every injustice the light of justice dawns, and after every tyranny the sun of equity shines forth.   BH01128

Thus hath it been decreed in the recorded Tablet... Fear ye God, O people, and walk not in the footsteps of them who disbelieve the presence of the All-Merciful.   BH03702

Look, how the wrath of their Lord has overtaken them. I am the Wrathful, the Severe. We first seized them because through them the root of tyranny gained strength.  BH02879

All are created in the same station by the Justice of God, but if some of these have become prophets and some teachers, this is from the favours and bounty of God.  ABU2689

He forbiddeth them tyranny and wickedness, yet they persist in committing them. Say: O people! Fear ye God, and follow not the ways of them that scoff at His signs.  BH05766

The oppressive souls deserve severe punishment and retribution - the longer they remain, the more oppression they commit. Do not let these tyrannical souls endure.   AB05111

God shall soon roll up the carpet of tyranny and spread out the carpet of justice. He, verily, is powerful over whatsoever He willeth through His word "Be" and it is.   BH07252

Fear God, O people, and spread not corruption in the land after its reformation, and cast not the ways of God behind your backs, and be not of those who forsake them.   BH03233

Consider with justice, O my God - that justice which Thou hast enjoined upon Thy servants... Thou art He Who hath established supreme justice between earth and heaven.   BH05409

But God will seize the wrongdoers with His wrath and will punish them with an unquenchable fire and a torment without end. He is verily the Almighty, the All-Compelling.  BH02932

God shall take vengeance upon those who observed not God's command concerning Thee and showed no shame before Thy countenance. He is most severe in might and punishment.  BB00329

Soon shall We seize these as We seized those who were mightier than them in strength. Thy Lord, verily, is powerful over what He willeth and ruleth over what He pleaseth.   BH02095

And when you become an oppressor, it behooves God to cause another oppressor to gain dominion over you. This is justice from His presence, if you be of those who understand.   BH03468

Observe how they treat each other and how they stain their mouths and teeth with each other's blood, showing not a trace of justice but rather pursuing the path of oppression.  AB02773

Soon will He seize the oppressors with a mighty vengeance from His presence... He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth. He is the All-Commanding, the All-Wise.   BH09679

Verily He seizeth the transgressors; nothing can frustrate Him. He seizeth every wicked one even as He seized in His days. Thy Lord is, in truth, the All-Powerful, the Almighty.   BH06748

And We requite not those who denied Our signs except according to what their hands have wrought. God thy Lord will judge between people with truth, and He is the best of judges.   BB00390

His justice shall ultimately seize the oppressors and liars, and His grace shall not deprive His loved ones. He is the Owner of existence and the Sovereign of the seen and unseen.   BH00860

"He is never angry. He curses nothing. It has been said otherwise; but such teaching is the teaching of heathenism- of the teachers of the time -not that of the Messengers of God."  ABU1046

As for those souls who have become the source of oppression against the Cause of God, their station is in the lowest depths of existence, and this is the recompense of their deeds.  AB11484

O Lord! Behold the oppressors among Thy creatures with the glance of Thy wrath and might. In their tyranny they have reached a state which none can reckon save Thy all-knowing Self.  BH04569

In these days the Sun of Justice is veiled behind clouds of oppression, while the Wronged One calls out from the horizon of tribulation and commands all to that which is befitting.   BH02547

Verily thy Lord is ever watchful...He never overlooks injustice and transgression - He grants respite but does not neglect. Every soul will soon witness the recompense of their deeds  AB02218

They accepted not the word of truth and move with utmost tyranny in the arena of oppression, heedless that the true Judge and the just Almighty observeth and will surely requite them.  BH11626

However, the just government must discipline and admonish the heedless souls, and to the extent possible carry out retribution, so that others may not show audacity or seek aggression   AB01357

However those who planned to destroy the Faith of God, were themselves destroyed by God. "So their Lord destroyed them for their crime, and visited all alike: Nor feared he the issue."  ABU2140

You are the punishment of sinners and the blessing of those drawn nigh - a flowing spring of mercy for seeking hearts, and a cup of wrath specially for the hearts of those who turn away  BH09523

"For them that have turned unto Him He hath ordained that which shall gladden their hearts, and for them that have turned away, the wrath of thy Lord - verily His punishment is severe."  BH06247

"We shall forget them as they forget Our presence, for We are all-powerful and all-encompassing... By God! He shall seize them and banish them as though they had never been mentioned."   BB00396

God shall soon seize them with a mighty wrath from His presence. Verily He destroyed the generations of old and shall exalt your names in truth. He, verily, is the Powerful, the Mighty.   BH08561

Blessed are those servants who have recognized all the deeds of God as praiseworthy, for whatsoever proceedeth from the Absolute Wise One hath been and shall ever be for the good of all   BH05529

In this Revelation, God, exalted be His glory, has not given respite to the oppressors and has seized most with utmost severity and speed. By My life, He is indeed the Powerful, the Mighty!   BH00904

Say: God will assuredly take vengeance on them that act with tyranny in the earth to the extent of a mustard seed, and He will take vengeance on them by His command - He is mighty and severe.  BB00003

As for those who disbelieve in God, and join partners with Him, they shall indeed incur His wrath, shall be cast into the Fire, and shall be made to dwell, fearful and dismayed, in its depths.  BH00007

Soon shall the fire and its rocks encompass them in the valley of Hell by leave of God, the Exalted, and nigh. This is your recompense from God for having been hypocrites in God's true religion  BB00002

God shall soon seize those who have wronged, for He is the most severe in retribution. Nothing escapeth His knowledge. He heareth the sighing of the oppressed and the wailing of the oppressors.   BH08589

Speak Thou Thy word of wrath, O Thou Whom no eyes can see! Well-beloved is Thy mercy unto the sincere among Thy servants, and well-beseeming Thy chastisement of the infidels among Thine enemies.  BH02871

These heedless people merit the descent of the terrible wrath of God. they are not at all entitled to His Love. Even what they have and are enjoying has been and is through His limitless Mercy.   ABU1196

Where, in the past, if a poor man wanted his rights he had only to offer a gift to one individual, now he would either have to renounce all hope of justice or else satisfy the entire membership.  AB00004

When Thou revealest what Thou hast ordained, all souls shall testify that Thou art the Harmer, none can resist Thy Cause, and that Thou art the Benefactor, none can bestow benefit like unto Thee.  BB00003

However, the All-Informed gave no respite to oppression and hypocrisy, and seized them, and He shall soon seize those who have committed tyranny on earth without clear proof or enlightening Book.   BH05010

He is the One Who standeth by His Cause, Who recompenseth every soul for what it hath earned... His is the right to question those who are in the heavens and earth, and all shall be tested by Him   BB00448

War and rapine with their attendant cruelties are an abomination to God, and bring their own punishment, for the God of love is also a God of justice and each man must inevitably reap what he sows.  ABU0276

The hand of oppression has intended to veil the lights of the Sun of Justice and prevent the light of the Cause from reaching eyes. By the life of God, this is beyond the station of anyone on earth.   BH10238

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Avenger, to send down upon some of Thy enemies that which shall cause their souls to tremble in this world and in the next. Ordain for them all a grievous punishment.   BH09705

Soon shall We punish those who warred against Husayn on the banks of the Euphrates with the severest chastisement and mighty retribution, in truth and by the truth. What aileth you, O hosts of Satan?  BB00002

Say: Nothing can frustrate God from hastening your destruction, yet He granteth you respite that He may intensify your fire. Then will He seize you by His command. Verily He hath power over all things.  BB00003

Through their oppression the countenance of justice hath been illumined, yet they remain in wondrous stupor. That which they have wrought shall cause you no harm, for He is the Mighty, the All-Bestowing.   BH08422

Divine justice lieth in wait. He shall seize the oppressors with His might and authority from His presence. Verily, He is the most powerful of the powerful ones and the most generous of the generous ones.  BH00143

"God treats these people with His mercy, not with His justice, since God is against war." "Is it just to be so afflicted and killed and suffer and have no reward? This is contrary to the Kingdom of God."   ABU1901

And whatsoever hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen shall assuredly be made manifest, and there shall remain not a single letter but the fair-minded shall behold it established upon the throne of revelation.  BH00082

Verily thy Lord will judge between men with justice on the Day of Resurrection, and not an atom's weight of injustice shall be done that Day. Glorified be God above what the wrongdoers ascribe to His judgment.  BB00009

I beseech Thee, O God of might and power, by Thy dominant sovereignty and Thy overwhelming authority, to seize them through Thy power and might, and prevent them from what they intended against Thy loved ones.   BH03504

Say: O concourse of princes! By God, We have not come to create disorder in the land but rather to reform it. To this beareth witness the Lord of the Kingdom of Names. Fear ye God and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH01710

until the winds of justice pass over whom they will, consigning them to the lowest depths of hell. All this proceedeth from the command of thy Lord Who doeth as He pleaseth and shall not be asked of His doings.   BH01077

I beseech Thee, O King of Kings, by the mysteries of Thy kingdom and the lights of the Orb of Thy justice, to seize the oppressors with the scourges of Thy wrath and the transgressors with the fire of Thy anger.   BH02043

Whosoever attaineth unto good through Thee, that is his recompense from Thee [...] Whosoever is deprived of good at the Daysprings of Thy unity - this is Thy justice towards him and Thy fire within his own self.   BB00277

Have ye grown heedless of the power of divine justice, or have ye obtained a letter of immunity from His might? By God's life! All the concourse of the near angels and the cherubim lament and shed tears of blood.   BH01383

However if harm comes to the Cause of God, I cannot remain patient. Someone demolishes the house of the Cause while I stand watching, and he becomes upset asking "Why don't you join me in the demolition, fellow?"   ABU1370

Soon shall they discover what they have wrought when the angels of wrath seize them with a grievous punishment. Thus doth God distinguish between truth and falsehood, and between the monotheists and the idolaters.   BH04980

Soon shall the blasts of His chastisement beat upon you, and the dust of hell enshroud you... Ere long, will God, with the Hand of Power, strip them of their possessions, and divest them of the robe of His bounty.   BH02218

"The oppressor will ultimately receive retribution, for God is not pleased with injustice and treachery. This is why He says: 'We grant them enjoyment for a little while, then We compel them to a harsh punishment'"  AB04642

This would not however be an unjust coercion. Such is that exercised by Turkey on the Russian government in the past, but a just coercion in the interest of the people themselves and to prevent disorder and chaos.   ABU1145

Dost thou see those who committed injustice aforetime? We seized them for their sins. Verily thy Lord is the Mighty, the Powerful. Soon shall We seize these ones and join them with an evil and most wretched people.   BH05284

O Lord! Seize them through Thy power, then suffice against their evil through Thy sovereignty. Verily Thou art He Whose power encompasseth all and Whose sovereignty is manifest, and Thou art powerful over all things.  BH08851

He, verily, is the Omnipotent, the All-Subduing, the Most Powerful. He shall cleanse the earth from the defilement of their corruption, and shall give it for an heritage unto such of His servants as are nigh unto Him.  BH10747

But oppressive souls shall be afflicted with the flames of divine wrath a second time, and after their spirits depart they shall be tormented with a punishment a hundred thousand times more severe than earthly torment.   BH03084

I beseech God by thee and by those who loved thee to open before the faces of His servants the gates of justice and fairness, and to send down upon them from the heaven of His bounty the rain of His mercy and His gifts.  BH11740

O Muhammad! Say: Verily He is the True One Who shall gather mankind on the Day of Resurrection through His command, that He may recompense every soul according to what it hath earned, and before Him shall all be brought.   BB00454

what occurred - the people deserved it, nay, they deserved punishments beyond that, for they were heedless of that which caused the eyes of the people of the cities of justice to weep and the companions of equity to lament.  BH02716

He hath indeed seized him who oppressed, and soon will He seize those who have denied Him and His verses which have filled the East and West of the earth. Verily our Lord, the All-Merciful, is the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  BH01575

Those who have disbelieved, God will seize them with a mighty vengeance from His presence. Soon shall come a day wherein none shall find for himself any protector. Then shall the unitarians rejoice in God's mercy and bounty.  BH11797

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of the heaven of utterance that the All-Glorious Lord hath not and will not overlook the tyranny of the aggressors. Soon will He requite all according to that which their hands have wrought.  BH11256

As can now be observed in Europe, by their own admission, they commit murder in various ways with an oppression the like of which has never been heard, let alone witnessed. Ere long they shall be seized with great punishments  BH03974

Be confident that divine justice will take revenge on the oppressors and afflict the tyrannical ones with a great calamity. He grants respite but does not neglect - He gives time but does not pass over oppression and tyranny   AB02364

O my Lord! Illumine the horizon of Thy justice through Thy sovereignty, then preserve it from the clouds of tyranny and the veils of oppression. Verily, Thou art the All-Powerful, the Most Exalted, the Mighty, the All-Knowing   BH10907

My Lord knoweth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is on earth. There is no God but Him. He shall judge between all with justice on the Day of Resurrection, and not an atom's weight of injustice shall be done this Day   BB00465

It would bestow bounty upon both the righteous and the wicked, and would illuminate the dwelling of both the sinner and the pious. It would shower its rays upon both the perfect and imperfect, the learned and the ignorant alike  AB00668

Hadi of Dawlatabad hath appeared with an oppression that hath no equal and shall have none, and through darkness hath been deprived of light. No path leadeth to fairness in his court, and justice findeth there no dwelling place.   BH04433

Soon shall they behold the recompense of their deeds in this vain life, for divine justice and heavenly wisdom will not forgo reward and punishment, and upon these two depend the order of the world and the tranquility of nations.   BH01646

Thou art God, my Lord, Thou knowest my needs, Thou seest my state and art well aware of what hath befallen me by reason of Thy decree, and of the earthly sufferings I have endured by Thy leave and as a token of Thy bounty and favour.  BB00260

We have seized him who pronounced judgment against My loved ones, then We seized one who was greater than he. Verily thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. He judgeth as He pleaseth, even as He judged in the beginning of the Cause.  BH04719

Those who plundered your possessions and seized what was yours are in manifest loss. God will soon seize them with His wrath, even as He seized aforetime those servants who wronged His loved ones without clear proof or illuminating Book.  BH06572

"God, the Lord, in His eternal Justice, can alone weigh and evaluate the responsibility of our free will versus the compulsion of heredity and instinct. From him to whom the Lord has given much in his cradle, will He require much later."  ABU0453

That person imagines that matters will remain thus, not knowing that oppression and tyranny uproot foundations and ultimately no trace of the foolish shall remain. For him who is slain unjustly, We have indeed given authority to his heir.  AB04722

Thou didst seize with Thy vengeance the vainglorious ones with the grasp of One mighty, powerful, supreme and jealous. Thou didst take vengeance upon them for their refusal to hearken to Thy counsels and their disobedience to the Messenger.  AB07769

We have seized him who arose in tyranny with a vengeance from Us. Verily, thy Lord is the Avenger, the Almighty. And We shall seize those who conspired with him in his designs. God hath cut down the tree of tyranny with the sword of justice.   BH00641

Nasiru'l-Millih received his recompense, and likewise Muvaqqaru's-Saltanih attained the reward of his tyranny and oppression. But what benefit is there when none becomes aware, when no soul becomes mindful? The signs and warnings profit none.  AB10467

This servant in all conditions beseeches and hopes that the All-Glorious Truth may make the rulers aware of the sweetness, delight, loftiness and greatness of justice, and not deprive His servants of this supreme bounty and most evident light.  BH10754

How wilt thou answer the moaning and the lamentations of women before the throne of the Almighty on the Judgment Day? Yea, yea, what wilt thou say? Dost thou dare to plead not guilty before the Supreme Judge who seest the secrets of the heart?   ABU0426

When he exceeded all bounds, divine justice seized him and the other officials who were his partners and confederates - the seizure of One mighty and powerful. In brief, through two days of authority he prepared for himself eternal retribution.   BH00465

Soon shall the world and the glory of them that oppressed pass away. Then shall they find themselves in the abyss of divine punishment, with none to deliver them from that which God, the Lord of what was and what shall be, hath ordained for them.  BH07204

The vainglorious have fallen into evident loss. Soon thou shalt witness even greater than this, and God shall make them an example to all observers. Abasement and wretchedness have been stamped upon them, and they have incurred the wrath of God.   AB00214

The glory of existence lieth in justice, not in oppression. At present, falsehood and vainglory have prevented the world and its peoples from turning to the Truth. Soon shall come a day wherein God will raise up His patient and beneficent servants.  BH01517

Soon shall We punish those who warred against Husayn on the banks of the Euphrates with the severest chastisement and mighty retribution, in truth and by the truth... So await ye God's mighty seizure, in truth and by the truth, in the land of Hell.  BB00002

Consider how fortunate was the life he lived as a result of his justice and fairness, and how doomed were the fates of those who practised tyranny and oppression. How high was his rank, and how low the estates of Mirza Aqa Khan and Mirza Taqi Khan!  ABU2166

Praise be to God that warfare and strife have been removed, and the light of justice hath shone forth from the horizon of the Will of God, glorified be His majesty, and the pavilion of grace hath been raised at the midmost heart of contingent being.  BH11884

The darkness of tyranny hath prevented the Sun of Justice from shining forth. Assuredly one day the Finger of the Will of the Lord of Oneness shall rend asunder the obscuring veil, and the lights of the Sun of Truth shall become manifest and evident.  BH02803

But they are unaware that although God the Avenger is patient, He is also jealous. Soon He will strike such an axe to the root of these oppressors that the trees of their hopes will be uprooted from their foundation. Verily thy Lord is ever watchful.  AB02882

"The mention of thy Lord's name hath witnessed among the sedentary ones the word of chastisement. God hath changed His favor toward them, and We seized them for their deeds contrary to truth, that perchance they might believe in the meeting with God."  BB00287

Observe how the Hand of Divine Power hath seized nearly one million souls in retribution for their deeds and consigned them to a most wretched destination. How many princes and ministers, together with their kings and rulers, were returned to the fire.   BH01441

"Know thou with clear certainty that God, exalted be His glory, is just, and assuredly according to the requirements of justice shall He requite those who led astray, the polytheists, the slanderers and the murderers. Not an atom escapeth His knowledge."  BH02343

Regarding the matter in question, it is abundantly clear that in the sight of God, any matter that causes harm to anyone, or afflicts any soul, or indeed causes sorrow and distress to any souls, is in this Most Great Revelation rejected and unacceptable.  BH00009

O King! By God, the True One, if thou shouldst show enmity unto the Remembrance, God will verily judge thee on the Day of Resurrection among the kings with fire, and thou shalt find none other than God, the Most High, as a helper, according to the truth.  BB00002

If the Truth were to arise to execute justice and turn towards the punishment of deeds, what would the people of Iran do? In some of the former Books He saith: The sword of vengeance is intoxicated; it distinguisheth not between the wise and the heedless.  BH02970

it refers, first, to the balance which is preserved by human law, that there may be a check to evil-doing; and, second, to the inevitable retribution which will fall upon each individual during his life, or upon the race after his death, for his evil acts.  ABU1862

God shall soon seize him who hath wronged, even as He seized the wrongdoers of the past. Verily thy Lord is the Almighty, the All-Compelling. Nothing can frustrate Him, no thing can prevent Him. He doeth what He willeth, and with Him is the Mother of the Book.  BH06365

It is evident that the divine Prophets have appeared in the world to establish love and agreement among mankind. They have been the Shepherds and not the wolves. The Shepherd comes forth to gather and lead his flock and not to disperse them by creating strife.  ABU0016

And punish, O God, those who deny Thee and Thy days, and send down upon them the fire of Thy might and power. Verily, Thou art praised in Thy deeds, thanked in Thy Cause, and obeyed in Thy decree. There is no God but Thee, and Thou art powerful over all things.  BB00038

Thus you witnessed how We seized the leader of the people with a wondrous Book, despite knowing his rejection and rebellion. Now what was a blessing for him became a curse, and its effects are evident in all lands. Soon it shall become manifest in his own self.   BH04666

In truth, the glorious government - may God strengthen it - hath manifested justice, and justice is the cause of the elevation, majesty and power of kings. Blessed is he who is adorned therewith, who drinketh from its chalice and is illumined by its effulgences.  BH11720

Not an atom's weight of injustice exists in your judgment...With you are the keys of Paradise and Hell - you cause to enter therein whom you will: people who were certain of your signs, and you cause to enter therein whom you will: people who denied God's signs   BB00419

Soon shall the recompense of your deeds encompass you, and ye shall wail and lament and find no helper, for ye have become deserving of divine wrath. The hand of justice is manifest and evident, and hath not and will not overlook the oppression of the oppressors.  BH02207

And verily He is the Almighty Who shall assuredly take vengeance upon those who believe not in God and His signs, and who have caused even an atom's weight of sorrow unto them that have believed in God and His signs. Verily He was ever possessed of immense power.  BB00129

We took several persons in this city - some We banished, some We afflicted with illness, and some We seized through Our power in such wise that none discovered the cause thereof. He, verily, is the Ruler over whatsoever He pleaseth through His word "Be" and it is   BH06252

By the Truth, We shall make the polytheists taste the heat of the Fire with severe punishment, and We shall fully reward the patient ones with the finest reward in the Land of Saffron, according to the decree of the Book, from the judgment of the Gate, in comfort.  BB00002

Know ye, verily, that an unforeseen calamity followeth you, and grievous retribution awaiteth you. Think not that which ye have committed hath been effaced in My sight. By My beauty! All your doings hath My pen graven with open characters upon tablets of chrysolite.  BH00113

Soon shall perish that which hath occupied you and prevented you from attaining unto and drawing nigh unto the Self-Sufficient, the Most High. In this Most Great Revelation, God, exalted be His glory, hath not given, nor will He ever give, respite to the oppressors.  BH03636

Then We seized him whom We had promised chastisement in the Scriptures and Tablets. When the agony of death overtook him, he said: "Is there any protector?" It was said: "There is no protector for thee this day." The angels of wrath cast him face down into the fire.   BH03337

Loss in this world and the next shall return to the treacherous souls, and continueth to do so. That which they have taken shall profit them not; rather, humiliation shall descend upon them in this world and in the next, and a grievous chastisement shall afflict them.  BH08426

And do Thou send down, O God, upon those who have not believed in Him, all Thy chastisement and retribution, for Thou art the most severe in punishment and the most terrible in vengeance. Verily, Thou art severe in chastisement and Thou art, over all things, powerful.  BB00308

O people of Baha! The sun of justice was indeed concealed and veiled beneath the clouds of oppression, but God hath assisted His Majesty the illustrious Russian State to cause its shining forth and appearance, and its deliverance from every thick veil and mighty cloud.  BH11735

"Therefore did God seize those in the lands and sent down upon them hunger and fear that they might awaken and be of those who repent. He awakened not at God's might; soon will He seize him with vengeful power from His presence. Verily He is the most severe of avengers."  BH04735

I tremble before the manifestations of Thy justice and the signs of Thy wrath. I recognize that Thou art known by these two names and described by these two attributes, yet Thou carest not whether Thou art invoked by Thy name the Ever-Forgiving, or Thy name the Wrathful.  BH00437

God hath seized their leader - He, verily, is powerful over whatsoever He willeth through His word Be and it is. Yet the idolaters remained heedless of this. He seized another - He, verily, is powerful over whatsoever He willeth and in His grasp are the reins of all things.  BH00142

Were the mysteries, that are known to none except God, to be unraveled, the whole of mankind would witness the evidences of perfect and consummate justice. With a certitude that none can question, all men would cleave to His commandments, and would scrupulously observe them.  BH02294

The servant was gladdened by the breaking of a hand that had stretched forth in oppression and tyranny. We beseech God that other hands may meet the same fate - those who have acted as he acted. Verily He is the Just, the Avenger, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH05061

do Thou protect him from every evil and calamity, and from the afflictions that his enemies may bring down upon his head, that Thou mayest gain dominion over them through Thy sovereignty and power, and prevail over Thine enemies through Thy mighty wrath and ancient indignation.  BH10337

This is a Tablet wherein God has sent forth His Name the Just, and breathed from it the spirit of justice into the temples of all created things, that all may arise to observe pure justice and judge themselves and others, not deviating therefrom by so much as a hair's breadth.   BH00195

O my God! Send forth from Thy presence one who shall seize these infidels, and from Thy side one who shall lay hold upon these immoral ones, and from among Thy servants one who shall subdue these transgressors, and from all Thy creation one who shall overcome these oppressors.   BB00504


Thus doth God love to take vengeance, for He is Severe, possessed of mighty strength. Thus doth God love to take vengeance, for He is the Subduer, possessed of mighty strength. When I addressed them both with verses of the Qur'an, how was it when ye saw God's verses in the Bayan?  BB00003

O Thou Who dealest equitably with all who are in heaven and on earth, and rulest over the kingdom of Thy creation and of Thy Revelation! I testify that every man of equity hath recognized his unfairness in the face of the revelation of the splendors of the Day-Star of Thy Justice   BH07355

And if Thou sayest "Nay," then I am he who clingeth to the hem of Thy bounty, who imploreth Thee by Thyself, who persistently beseecheth Thee by the right of Thy Lordship. For verily Thou art independent of all that is in the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them.   BB00095

How knowest Thou not, O God of the worlds, how to forbear and not seize them when Thou art most severe in might and most severe in exemplary punishment? How knowest Thou not, O our God, how to be patient and not judge, when Thou art most severe in seizure and most severe in conquest?   BB00274

Verily He has seized him who oppressed - thy Lord is indeed the Mighty, the Powerful. However, the traces of the blood of those wronged ones shall appear in the earth. Although that oppressor who arose to deny this Cause was seized, yet this much does not suffice and will not suffice.   BH02842

In this Most Great Revelation, God, exalted be His glory, hath not and will not grant respite to the oppressors. Were it not for His prior decree, they would have seen the recompense of their deeds in less than a moment, such that the tempests of wrath would have scattered them like dust.  BH00304

And verily those who showed pride against Thee, even in their moment of pride were tormented by the fire of their unbelief and were chastised by the punishment of their associating partners with God. No flame is fiercer for them than this, nor any retribution and wrath greater than this.   BB00202

I said: "Then we have been remiss in our duty toward you. Friends, seize him!" He received a thorough beating. He immediately went to the governor to complain. When the governor heard the details, he too cursed at him. From then on, the pool was always full. Such is the nature of people.   ABU1426

The All-Merciful shall soon cause you to taste in the Resurrection a Fire that blazeth fierce from the flames of Hell, as recompense for your denial of the verses of the Book from God, the Truth, which We revealed unto Our servant, while ye responded with naught but sighing and ingratitude.  BB00002

Where are the swords of Thy vengeance, O Destroyer of the worlds? ... Therefore We took hold of the reins of wrath with a sovereignty from Our presence ... The angels of divine wrath suddenly seized them and made them a lesson to the worlds. May the All-Merciful not have mercy on their graves!   BH04533

He hath made subject unto the Seven Letters, His servant and His Word, whatsoever He hath created and will create through His power, that they who seek may recognize that He is the Object of all names and attributes, the One glorified in the kingdom of holiness, the Doer of whatsoever He willeth.  BB00003

But suddenly the all-encompassing hand of divine power emerged from the sleeve of truth - the bonds were broken and the foundation of barriers collapsed. The chain, fetters and shackles of the prison of Joseph were removed from the necks of the wanderers and placed on the necks of the oppressors.  AB00727

Repeatedly from the Tongue of Grandeur hath flowed this exalted word - blessed and exalted be His utterance: The tabernacle of order in the world is upheld by two pillars: reward and punishment. Assuredly the reward of the friends and the punishment of the enemies will become manifest and evident.  BH11701

When the fire of their own selves encompassed them, they cried for help but found no helper, and they called out but received no response. Thus was the matter decreed from the presence of the Mighty, the Powerful. Greater than what befell them in their vain life has been ordained for the transgressors  BH06639

To enforce the laws of God is naught but justice, and is the source of universal content. Nay more, the divine statutes have always been, and will ever remain, the cause and instrument of the preservation of mankind, as witnessed by His exalted words: In punishment will ye find life, O men of insight!  BH00038

verily the fly therein became as an eagle, therefore God cast him into the abyss, and likewise his kind - may God curse them. They corrupted and caused corruption to such a degree that after their destruction the Tongue of Grandeur proclaimed: "The All-Forgiving shall not forgive their burial places."   BH06927

For Thy justice hath ever encompassed me, and Thy creative power hath ever been in my heart, and the punishment of Thy justice hath ever been before mine eyes. Alas! Alas! If Thou shouldst desire to punish me, or if Thou shouldst wish to call me to account, or if Thou shouldst want to take me to task!   BB00121

O Lord! Eyes have wept at what hath befallen Thy chosen ones. I beseech Thee, O Lord of the world and Sovereign of the nations, by the Most Great Name, to transform the throne of tyranny into the seat of Thy justice, and the chair of heedlessness and oppression into the throne of humility and fairness.   BH05892

Justice hath its hosts, which are the requital and recompense of deeds, and through these the pavilion of order hath been raised in the world, and every transgressor hath taken hold of his own reins through fear of retribution. Thus hath spoken the Lord of Names; He is verily the Speaker, the All-Knowing.  BH00921

We seized him even as We seized the factions before him. Verily He is powerful when He willeth, and He is severe in punishment. How many were the houses We left to the spider, and how many were the kings We brought down from their palaces to their graves, making them a lesson for those possessed of vision.  BH01343

He hath seized him through whom the furnace of tyranny was set ablaze, by virtue of His sovereignty. Verily, He is the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth. There is none other God but Him, the One Who ruleth over all that was and that shall be. Soon will He seize those who were partners in oppression.   BH07063

Thus it was that he resisted, and Afrasiyab overcame him and slew him. The fire of wrath was kindled in Iran and Turan. Rustam killed Sudaba, for she had caused Siyavash's exile, and the army marched on Turan, and Afrasiyab and Garsivaz were killed, and this caused the ruin of Turkistan for it lasted a long time.  ABU0443

God has seized the oppressors with complete conquest. He is the One with such power that the might and dominion of the people of the world cannot weaken Him. Soon will God seize those who have oppressed in the land of Ta (Tehran) just as He seized the Wolf and the Spotted One and the one who was secretly with them.  BH01358

He that cast justice behind his back has been seized, clinging to that injustice which caused the Manifestations of loving-kindness and bounty to lament. Glory be to God! To please an oppressor - that is, the Son of the Wolf - he committed that which caused God's wrath to encompass him from all directions and seize him.  BH06759

Therefore, O my Beloved, seize them with Thy severe chastisement for what their hands have wrought. Verily, Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. Thou doest what Thou pleasest and ordainest what Thou desirest. Verily, Thou art the Originator and the Restorer, and Thou art the All-Hearing, the Answerer of prayers.  BH01180

Sufficient art Thou as witness over me and the believers, and sufficient is Thy grace and bounty for the wounds that have pierced my heart. Then Thy help and Thy might shall come to those who have unjustly grown proud against the unitarians among Thy servants and who have wronged people without right according to Thy Book.   BB00303

O concourse of rulers! Turn unto the poor; verily God hath created them and you from the selfsame substance. Let a portion of your wealth be shared by them. This is that which will profit you throughout all times and ages. Bestow a part of that which God in His grace hath given you; for thereby will your wealth be increased.  BH02503

Ere long shall they who possess insight behold the oppressors of the earth in manifest loss and grievous torment. He is the Just One Who hath pledged that He will not overlook the tyranny of the oppressors. We testify that He will fulfill His promise and make manifest that which the Pen hath uttered in the arena of the Tablet.  BH06516

When Hasan and Husayn were martyred and their days were ended, We seized the source of tyranny and oppression with a sovereignty from Our presence. Verily thy Lord is the Almighty, the Powerful. Soon shall We seize those who have oppressed even as We seized them aforetime. Thy Lord is verily the Ruler over whatsoever He willeth.   BH00416

I bear witness that the justice of God appears through none save the justice of the Sun of Truth. All claim justice for themselves, but in the sight of God none are truly just except those in the Bayan who observe His bounds and fear their Lord - they who, on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, will believe in His justice.  BB00003

Take, for example, the Governor here. Who has given him this power? The English government has given him the power, to do as he wishes. Now it is possible that he may do either justice or injustice. Justice is good, injustice is bad. If the English government has given him this power, he can do not justice except through this power.   ABU0261

Say: O God of the sea and the pearls of wisdom therein, and Sovereign of the land and whatsoever moves therein of Thy creation, I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which were raised the standards of Thy remembrance and the banners of Thy Revelation, to transform the throne of tyranny and oppression into the seat of justice and equity.   BH02576

The oppressor rejoiceth and scoffeth as though he would abide forever on earth. Nay, by the Self of God that holdeth dominion over all that hath been and shall be! Soon shall he behold the recompense of his deeds and shall bewail his own self, and shall find none to help him. He Who possesseth the Preserved Tablet doth testify to this.  BH06444

Now the Almighty God has subjugated that audacious person and inflicted thorough punishment upon that tyrannical traitor. Similarly, Mirza Davud the obstinate one received the recompense for his deeds and saw severe punishment, taking up residence in the depths of hell-fire, and whatever he had amassed was also plundered and pillaged.   AB01920

If but a particle of the mountain of His justice were to move, it would annihilate all hidden essences from the beginning that has no beginning until this time. And if a single flash of the lightning of His might were to surge forth, it would render non-existent all primary and ultimate manifestations, as if they had never been mentioned.  BH01771

By Thy might and Thy majesty, if Thou shouldst punish me in the fire with all Thy torments, and enlarge my body until it fills all the fire with Thy wrath... I would still declare in the fire as I now declare before Thee: Thou art God, the Just in judgment, the Obeyed in deed, and that judgment from Thee upon me regarding my right is truth   BB00182

Be not grieved by the conduct of certain souls, for the true Reckoner is keeping watch over them. All these things shall come to pass, and the firmament of truth shall be rid of every intervening cloud. Should anyone, therefore, commit a sin, he will have transgressed against his own self. Eventually he will be seized with regret and remorse.  AB02531

Make them taste, O my God, of Thine awful majesty and vengeance, for they have repudiated the truth of the One in Whom they had believed, Who came unto them with Thy signs and Thy clear tokens and the evidences of Thy power and the manifold revelations of Thy might. Thou art, verily, the One Whose power is immense, Whose vengeance is terrible.  BH03356

Thus hath flowed from My Most Exalted Pen that which hath caused the eyes of them that are nigh to shed tears. We have seized him by whom all things have lamented, with an authority from Us and a power from Our presence. He, verily, is the Mighty, the Powerful. And We shall seize those who have acted unjustly without clear proof or illuminating Book.  BH01958

Therefore, O my God, send down upon them all Thy severity, Thy grasp, Thy might, and Thy vengeance. Seize them with the grasp of One mighty and powerful. Destroy them as Thou didst destroy those of old before them, and shalt destroy those who come after them. Verily, Thou art the Lord of great retribution, of severe chastisement, and of mighty power.   BB00228

By God, the Truth! Unto Us is your return in truth, then upon Us resteth your reckoning in truth, concerning that Gate which hath been inscribed round about the Letter B. What aileth you that ye ponder not the Qur'an in truth, seeking its true interpretation? Verily We shall reckon with you, by God's leave, on the Day of Resurrection, layer upon layer.  BB00002

This turmoil, this torment, and this punishment are the consequences of those misdeeds. The Jews beheaded John the Baptist, and after forty years God raised up Titus the Roman, and the land of Palestine was stained with the blood of the slain. Now, if the people of Tabriz shed each other's blood, be not surprised. This is the recompense for those deeds.   AB00071

Forty days after the martyrdom of those two noble ones - on their fortieth day - the manifest Ruler seized the Imam of the polytheists through His power with an abasement beyond which none can be conceived. The Causer of causes thereafter brought about circumstances that led to complete discord between him and the governor, who is the son of the sovereign.   BH00392

My wrath hath descended upon those who knew them not, and in the fire shall they abide forever. God will visit His retribution upon them by their own hands and the hands of all the believers together, and they shall take vengeance upon themselves by their own selves, and curse themselves with names from before them from their own midst, yet they perceive not.   BB00666

And shouldst Thou deny us what we have mentioned before Thee, Thy decree would be justice wherein there is no tyranny, and Thy ruling would be truth that cannot be reversed. This would be naught but a favor from Thee regarding my right and a bounty from Thy presence regarding my station, for Thou knowest best the interests of one who turns to Thee in his days.  BB00081

Therefore, I beseech Thee, O my God, to hasten that whereby Thou shalt gladden the eyes of Thy loved ones, when Thou dost punish Thine enemies with what they deserve through Thy chastisement and vengeance. For were the veil to be lifted from their insight, they would love the punishment of their own souls, for that is what Thou hast loved and been pleased with.   BB00161

That which was written! But woe unto thee, for God hath caused evil to flow from thy hands. And blessed am I for having been patient in the path of my Lord until certitude came unto me. Verily, I was never heedless of thy infidelity, nor veiled from thy tyranny. I saw thee not before except as a rebellious devil, and I see thee not except as an obstinate oppressor.   BB00136

The angels of divine wrath seized them suddenly and made them a lesson to the worlds. The All-Merciful did not have mercy on their graves. This occurred suddenly. Were you to hear the details, you would testify that the Hand of God's power seized them - no one else had any part in it, nor will they. Pure power was manifested from the presence of a Mighty, Powerful One.   BH01927

By reason of the loftiness of His wrath and the greatness of His displeasure, He sent forth Muhammad - peace be upon him and his family - from the innermost heart of eternity unto all nations, distinct from any similitude among the children of his kind. He made him the manifestation of His justice and His overwhelming power, then of His grace and His almighty sovereignty.  BB00074

Having affirmed this, we say: How can existence be brought into being except in accordance with acceptance and acquiescence? For the matter resolves to one of four possibilities: either compelling all to obedience, or compelling all to disobedience, or compelling some to obedience and others to disobedience, or giving each its due according to the capacities of contingent beings.  BH00380

He is now surrounded with far worse sufferings than those with which he surrounded me. I did not feel the pains of his fiendish persecutions, because I possessed the glad-tidings of the Kingdom, but he is afflicted with the pangs of regret and remorse as the result of his evil days. These dark days have come upon him as the consequence of his darker days of tyranny and oppression.   ABU0224

Such is the state of mankind. The Truth hath not and will never overlook the oppression of the oppressors, especially in this Revelation wherein each of the tyrants hath been requited. Consider the Sultan of Rum aforetime and those who circled round him. God seized them with the grasp of the Mighty, the Powerful, for without cause he sent the people of God to the Most Great Prison.   BH00192

Nevertheless his fire burned more intensely and his wickedness increased more and more until suddenly the hands of divine wrath seized him and his circle of officials. The Governor of the province who resides in Damascus, and the chief who rules in Beirut, as well as other officers, all became troubled. Great causes appeared and that wicked one and his like were cast out and rejected  BH00897

Verily Thou art most severe in punishment and most exemplary in retribution. And how many servants have possessed the east of the earth and its west, yet today none remembereth them save to curse them if they are remembered, or else Thou hast elevated their mention as though they had no mention. Thus dost Thou cause the Tree of Negation to perish, even as Thou hast promised unto Thyself   BB00147

If Thou shouldst punish me with all Thy might, verily I am deserving thereof, for Thou art praised in Thy deeds and obeyed in Thy command. And if Thou shouldst admit me to the precincts of Thy nearness, to the paradise of Thy holiness and the throne of Thy manifestation, this would be naught but a token of Thy generosity toward me and Thy benevolence unto me, for I am not worthy thereof.  BB00013

I inform you, O servants of God, of Our severe grasp upon mankind on the Day of Judgment. Whoso turneth away from God's Remembrance, adorning falsehood with vain delusions - by the Lord of heaven and earth, We shall make him taste on the Day of Resurrection, according to the decree of the Book, fire upon fire from the tree of fire in the depths of the coffin, as hath been ordained in the Mother Book.  BB00002

How long, O my God, wilt Thou leave the oppressed to be toyed with by the hands of the oppressors? How long, O my God, wilt Thou grant respite to the murderers and not take vengeance for the murdered? How long, O my God, wilt Thou be patient with these painful events, these deadly injustices, these tragic calamities and these grievous crimes? Has not the Hour drawn nigh, to be followed by the Catastrophe?  AB12108

O people of the City! Fear God on the day when ye shall have no power over anything, and Our decree hath been inscribed in truth, by the truth. If ye persist in your ways and return not unto the remembrance of God, the Most High, in truth, upon truth, and soon - God will show you in the Day of Resurrection a fire that shall encompass your souls; on that day ye shall find no helper besides God, the Most High.  BB00002

And among them is a sword against the polytheists of Arabia, as God the Exalted has said: Slay the polytheists wherever you find them, and take them, and confine them, and lie in wait for them at every place of ambush. But if they repent and establish prayer and give alms, then let them go their way. Indeed, God is Forgiving and Merciful. From these servants nothing is accepted except death or entering Islam.  BB00039

Even if Thou shouldst make all that Thou hast created and wilt create into fire wherein naught is mentioned save Thy fire, and shouldst enlarge my body to the greatest extent possible within Thy power, and cast me alone therein, and continue to inflict upon me at every moment that supreme torment which none before me can comprehend - even then I would deserve this as requital for my good deeds before Thy face.  BB00374

And upon those who have not recognized the rights of these beloved Manifestations from the highest depths to the lowest atom, and these intended Dawning-Places in the last and the first, send down what befitteth the desert of Thy oneness. Verily, Thou art possessed of great vengeance against those who know not Thy right, and of mighty retribution against those who love not them who believe in Thee and Thy signs.   BB00179

Had the blessed word In retaliation there is life not been sent down from the Kingdom of utterance, verily the pavilion of preservation would have been witnessed prostrate upon the earth, without pillar or support. In truth, this blessed word which was revealed in the Quran from the Kingdom of the All-Merciful's will hath been and shall ever be the cause and means of security, prosperity, tranquility and preservation.  BH00807

The Lord God is not only the Almighty, but also the All-Merciful - for true might and power are always paired with kindness and goodness - and is at the same time the Just and the Avenger, we lowly creatures have to bow to His inscrutable decree and believe that the Potter in His absolute wisdom and goodness, in His justice and truth, creates, changes and completes everything to the best for the individual and for the whole.  ABU0414

And God will take vengeance upon them through the sovereignty of His overwhelming power, and the dominion of His almightiness, and the might of His everlastingness, and the independence of His glorification, and the enjoyment of His grandeur. For He is the All-Powerful, the Mighty in Punishment, the All-Compelling, the Overwhelming, the Manifest, the All-Prevailing, the Triumphant, the All-Conquering, the Wrathful, the Avenger.   BB00233

As for those who have fled from the Beauty of the All-Merciful, God hath rendered their deeds void and cast them into the abyss of His wrath as recompense for their actions and they were among the doers thereof. Take heed lest the denial of the deniers grieve thee, for We have found them today isolated in their unbelief, and therefore have We forbidden them from the holy shores with justice from Our presence, and verily We are just.   BH01216

Several times calamities have overtaken you, and yet ye failed utterly to take heed. One of them was the conflagration which devoured most of the City with the flames of justice, and concerning which many poems were written, stating that no such fire had ever been witnessed. And yet, ye waxed more heedless. Plague, likewise, broke out, and ye still failed to give heed! Be expectant, however, for the wrath of God is ready to overtake you.  BH00269

In brief, difficulties and trials assailed that wronged one from every side until it ended in deposition - he found no chance to act. During Istanbul's revolution, the head of the investigating committee, Arif, swallowed three bullets, the military commander was exiled to distant lands, the army general perished, and the colonel fled to Egypt and begged alms from the friends. Thus did God seize them with the grip of One mighty and powerful.   AB00379

Willingly I submit to a judge who, amazingly in his decree, Pronounced my blood lawful to shed both within and without the sanctuary. O Lord, make that judge content who gave the verdict for the shedding of this wanderer's blood both within and without the sanctuary of the Kaaba, while even hunting is forbidden in the sacred precinct. Yet that wretched one was so hard of heart that he made this servant's blood lawless both within and without the sanctuary.  AB08035

Therefore, O my God, at this time do Thou chastise all Thine enemies, and the enemies of Thy Beloved, and the enemies of the Manifestations of Thyself, and the enemies of those who claim relationship to Thee... Seize them, O my God, through Thy might with a mighty seizure, for verily Thou art the All-Powerful, the Almighty. Chastise them, O my God, through Thy power with a great chastisement, for verily Thou art most severe in punishment and in retribution.  BB00086

For example, if a man does a great injustice to another in his life, then, after his death, his son will be despised for having had such a father, and in some cases the injury might also be so serious that the effect would reach to the grandson, etc., or a man may, by wrong living, fall into consumption and give that disease to his children unto the third or fourth generation. Both physically and mentally, the sins of the fathers may be visited upon the children.  ABU2202

Then, he readily puts thousands upon thousands of them to the sword's blade. It takes twenty years for a person to grow to maturity and full strength, but in an instant, these people massacre tens of thousands of men and allow them to perish. How many cities are thoroughly destroyed, how many villages are reduced to heaps of dust, how much blood reddens the soil and how immense are the properties that are plundered and wrecked! And yet, there is no benefit in any of this!   ABU1669

He made reply: I held command over the people, and here is the mandate of my authority. Hold thy peace, O denier of the Day of Judgement! He implored: Is no respite possible so that I may send for my family? Far from it, O disbeliever in the verses of God! Thereupon the keepers of the fathomless abyss called unto him: The gates of Hell have opened wide to receive thee, O thou who hast turned away from thy Lord, the Unconstrained! Repair unto its fire, for it yearneth after thee.  BH01494

O Lord! Let Thy just servant drink from the cup of bounty and make him drunk with the wine of guidance, and make him a sword of equity unsheathed upon the necks of the people of tyranny, and a gleaming blade upon the necks of the deniers, and a cutting sword upon the necks of the proud ones. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Strong, the Triumphant, the Able, the Chosen One. There is no God but Thee, the Distressed, the Sovereign, the Just, the Mighty, the Compelling.   AB03604

Verily We shall reckon with you by God's leave on the Day of Resurrection, examining thoroughly layer upon layer, and with truth upon truth, hair by hair... And your Lord, the All-Merciful, is never in the least unjust to His servants. If you do good, you do good for your own souls - this is the truth that exists from God your Lord upon the paths of the Gate around the water. And if you do evil, you do it against yourselves - this decree from you is inscribed in the Mother Book around the fire.  BB00002

At all times doth the Book of God call out and declare: "O people of the earth! The True One, glorified be His majesty, hath sent Me down from His Kingdom of utterance that ye might all hold fast unto Me and find the path of salvation. Through Me is the straight path made clear and the evident proof established. Through My being hath the world been established, through Me are mysteries revealed and lights made manifest, the ocean of knowledge billoweth and the sun of wisdom shineth resplendent."   BH00616

By God's all-compelling Will, these encompassing tribulations and calamities shall not be lifted save by the command of the Omnipotent. That which was revealed and recorded by the Supreme Pen in God's Book has befallen the oppressors, and its effects are evident and manifest at all times, yet most of the people understand not and are unaware. The fire of tyranny and its smoke have encompassed and veiled the light of justice. Assuredly the retribution for this heinous deed has and will return upon them.  BH03000

He is the Just One Who, through the balance of reward and punishment, bestowed freshness and radiance upon the world of justice. In truth, the affairs that occurred in the Great City have become a cause of astonishment. People's wealth has been scattered to the wind, a great injustice has been inflicted upon justice, and the severest blow has been dealt to religion. His injustice reached such a point that the hand of power revealed his deeds and uncovered them. Verily He is the Avenger, the Just, the Wise.  BH00755

Thou hast admitted to the Ridvan those who believe in Thy unity, having bestowed upon them glory and immortality. And Thou hast destroyed those who believe not in Thy unity and cast them into the fire for what their hands have wrought. Thy sign admits of no doubt. Who is mightier than Thee in punishment, and greater than Thee in prowess? Such is Thy punishment for him who believeth not in Thee, whom Thou cursest along with all things, even their own souls, by names before them until the Day of Resurrection.   BB00103

And I, within the bounds of my earthly existence, when I behold one who walketh in the path of my good-pleasure, how can I not manifest the tokens of judgment concerning him since he hath not committed that which would necessitate judgment from Me and pardon from My presence? And should I witness in anyone attributes devoid of Thy love and good-pleasure, I must needs don the garment of judgment and forgiveness, and this is naught but from the abhorrence of my heart and what Thou lovest not to witness in my being.  BB00188

The wretchedness of those who denied the Days of God, wherein the Cause dawned from the horizon of mysteries, hath prevailed. We have seized those who disbelieved in God and wronged the Dawning-Places of Revelation. Verily thy Lord is severe in punishment. Among them were those whom We seized with might from Our presence, those whom We destroyed with a single cry, those whom We drowned in the sea, those whom We caused the earth to swallow, those whom We burned with the flames of fire, and those upon whom We rained stones.   BH01490

The day is approaching when God will have exalted His Cause and magnified His testimony in the eyes of all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth. Nothing whatsoever escapeth Him. He knoweth the secrets both of the heavens and of the earth. His knowledge embraceth all things. Rejoice not in what ye have done, or will do in the future, nor delight in the tribulation with which ye have afflicted Us, for ye are unable by such means as these to exalt your stations, were ye to examine your works with acute discernment.  BH00021

The kings, among all the peoples of the world, both high and low, have been and are foremost in the sight of God, for they are the dawning-places of might and power and the daysprings of justice and equity. If they are illumined with the light of justice, this oppressed people have, in both night and day, besought from God - exalted be His glory - for them that which is lasting and enduring. Blessed is the king who hath seized the reins of his passion, conquered his anger, and preferred justice to tyranny and fairness to oppression.  BH06925

Were it not for His grace and other wisdoms, verily those souls who have caused the least harm and injury to the loved ones of God would have been cast into the lowest depths of hell, and the earth would not have borne them for a moment. This applieth to the weak, heedless, and ignorant souls. As for those who arose in utter opposition and who stood against the Dawning-Places of God's love and the Daysprings of His remembrance in this Most Great Revelation with rejection and protest, they have been and shall be seized by the hand of power. Verily, thy Lord is the Avenger, the Mighty Wielder of Authority.  BH00988

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thyself and by those who have ascended unto Thee through the attraction of their hearts and the severance of their bodies, to visit those who have waxed proud in the land without right and who refuse to prostrate themselves before Thee or worship Thee with Thy most severe vengeance, to destroy them with utmost speed, to afflict them with Thy most grievous punishment, and to annihilate them from the face of the earth until no mention of them remaineth except coupled with Thy curse. For this is the recompense of those who believe not in Thee, who deny Thy Messenger, and who believe not in Thy signs.   BB00198

For the general body is like the human person: since it is composed of individual elements and different, opposing, and conflicting components, it is necessarily subject to ailments and exposed to diseases. When disorders arise from various causes, the skilled physician and superior sage diagnoses the disease, proceeds to analyze the symptoms, contemplates the realities and subtleties of the cause and requirements of nature, investigates origins and results, means and needs, and distinguishes between particulars and universals. Then he considers what this illness requires and what these symptoms demand, and proceeds with treatment and cure.  AB00011

But verily, Thou, O my God, wert ever watching until Thou didst seize them. And how severe was their punishment! Thou didst send upon them a yellow, raging wind that spared nothing and left nothing, scorching all flesh. The transgressors abandoned all their homes and properties, fleeing to the wilderness in fear of the deceptive disease. They could find no rest, O my God, even in the mountain peaks, for the disease crushed them, the devastating plague destroyed them, and the torrent of illness swept them away. Thou didst punish each one a thousandfold, O my God, scattered their gatherings and dispersed their assemblies until not one could find another.  AB12111



