

"walk in the ways of justice and shun the paths of the oppressors"  BH07288

to treat him according to Thy grace and not according to Thy justice   AB07079


Consider ye the justice of God and His mercy which encompasseth the worlds.  BH08693

God deals with us in mercy, not justice, for justice would demand our destruction.   AB00433

By God! He dealeth with grace after justice hath appeared through this straight Balance.   BH07523

if he deals unjustly and tyranically with his people he forfeits the right to govern them  ABU3550

Then command the people to justice and piety and forbid them from transgression and indecency.  BH02051

The effort made for justice is real and in this country the law is the same for the poor as for the rich.  ABU3420

"will raise the banner of justice and equity... and will demolish the foundation of tyranny and oppression"   AB01138

They ruled their subjects according to their whims nor did they listen to the injunctions of their sovereign father.   ABU0908

"O Ali, fix thy gaze upon the horizon of justice and fairness. Action must not depart from mercy and loving-kindness."  BH01688

One must hold people through both fear and hope - no soul should despair of forgiveness, yet should fear committing sin  AB12528

Justice and fairness have vanished from the world and the oppressors of the age are ablaze with the fire of greed and passion.   BH02620

The entire text discusses the interplay between divine justice requiring punishment and divine mercy offering hope of redemption   ABU3087

May God grant success. We hope that soon a just government will be established and both great and humble will find comfort and ease.  AB02102

It is hoped the new government will successfully establish justice and fairness such that they may discipline the rebellious and seditious ones.  AB11809

it is hoped that a just government will arise to deal with equity and fairness and become a manifestation of the All-Merciful, the Compassionate   AB11909

The government itself, praise be to God, is just and generous, but the troublemakers do not rest and commit oppression against the faithful ones.  AB00822

When Thou bestowest favor there is intimacy, and when Thou showest justice there is trepidation. Thou art the Merciful, the Generous, and the Kind.  AB10832

When one considers the grace and bounty of God - glorified be His majesty - one finds comfort, but when one considers justice, one becomes fearful and anxious.  BH09264

The House of Justice will decide between kings and kings. All judgment will be from the standpoint of God's Laws. Then rich and poor will be alike justly treated.  ABU1142

Although people have no right to exact vengeance, reward and punishment must be carried out, for these are the two pillars upon which the canopy of world order rests.  ABU3711

In truth, undertaking that matter personally was not permissible. However, the government has the right to carry out retribution through other means apart from the heir.  AB09248

Pray for him and beseech God for aid and assistance, that He may ever confirm him in justice and fairness, and make the oppressors captive to eternal abasement and failure.   AB00656

If a decree of amnesty were to be enacted henceforth in all countries, the whole world would soon be thrown into disarray and the foundations of human life would be shattered.   AB00090

Man, as an individual unit of human society must not base his deeds upon the law of retaliation. He must forgive, just as God forgives the sins and transgressions of his servants.  ABU2175

O Lord! If Thou shouldst pronounce the just to be unjust, who would dare protest? And if Thou shouldst deem the essence of oppression to be justice, who would dare claim otherwise?  AB07331

Kindness cannot be shown the tyrant, the deceiver, or the thief, because, far from awakening them to the error of their ways, it maketh them to continue in their perversity as before.  AB00890

The people of truth must beseech Him in the nights and days that the restraining veils may be rent asunder through divine power and the sun of justice and righteousness may illumine the world.  BH00263

We beseech God, exalted be He, to reward them for their deeds in this world and the next and to decree for them the recompense of attaining His presence. Verily He is the Forgiving, the Generous.  BH02688

God possesses the attributes of both justice and mercy. Justice demands that bounty be given to all equally, while Mercy gives bounty without regard to merits or deserts, upon whomsoever God wishes.   ABU1333

The human reality is adorned by divine mercy and just heavenly inspirations. Until this reality appears in its fullest splendor at the feast of Iran, the beauty of the desired goal will not be embraced.  AB06263

If someone transgresses against you personally, you should forgive them. But if they transgress against everyone, you cannot forgive everyone's right. Therefore the social body must rise up to defend and protect.   ABU1749

Whatever skilled physicians and surgeons do regarding a patient is valid and executable, but they must be adorned with the ornament of justice. If they know the truth, this is assuredly preferable and more beloved.  BH02497

Chastisement however, if happens according to divine law in absolute fairness and justice will be rewarding and the cause of good. Because in doing such, that person has executed the divine ordinances and not one's selfish desires.  AB00821

He can treat with fairness and justice his subjects or deal with them in the spirit of a tyrant. But the King has given him the laws whereby to guide himself in all his dealings with the people fairly and equatably and not commit injustice.  ABU2327

They are like unto mere children, and our Lord is the Educator of the world. If We but willed, we could have seized them with a single word from Us, yet the mercy of the Lord, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the All-Powerful, supersedes His wrath.   BH04228

The favors of the Sovereign of existence which are given according to merit - which means giving each rightful one their due - fall under the requirements of justice. However, the Most Great Guidance is a supreme gift and pertains to grace and bounty.  AB07899

Through them the lights of Thy justice have shone forth from the horizon, through them the breezes of Thy generosity have been wafted throughout the realms of possibility, through them Thou hast protected Thy servants from the evil of the rebellious ones   AB01756

We beseech the Most High at this moment to illumine him with the light of justice which shall endure as long as the Kingdom of God, the Mighty, the Wondrous, shall endure. O people! Hold fast to justice and fairness, and cling to the hem of God's religion.  BH04772

When all these brutalities are committed, when governments and nations have had enough carnage, bloodshed, destruction, then the Balances of Divine Justice will be set up. Those souls who have been kind and merciful, who have promoted peace and good-fellowship   ABU0805

Because peoples and nations did not act in accordance with justice, and tyrannized innocent men, this war had to sweep away all remnants of autocracy, absolutism and militarism, and usher in an era of democracy, equality before the law, and international peace.   ABU2686

Praise be to God that these matters, through divine will and thy endeavor and the justice and wisdom of his honor the Helper - may God assist him - were made clear and their reality became evident to all. Praise be to God Who aided him to vindicate truth and vanquish falsehood.  BH10152

What is needed is mercy and justice and forgiveness and determination and wisdom, and with utmost supplication and humility we turn to the court of the Self-Sufficient Lord, that whatsoever benefits the radiant government and brings comfort to the obedient nation may be realized.  AB10684

"Reward and punishment are the basic pillars of the world". Thus the Houses of Justice, in addition to their administrative tasks, also have to act in a judicial capacity. Equally important is the setting-up and supervision of a school system and the just care of the poor, and social welfare.  ABU0375

Do not look to lack of capacity, but consider bounty alone as the measure. Beseech His Holiness the One God for grace, that He may open the gate of bounty and not decree justice. For justice is giving each their due right, and if matters proceeded thus it would become difficult and complicated.   AB02128

Therefore, the government must act according to heavenly teachings, become a true shepherd and show kindness to its subjects. When this occurs, the Word of God will guarantee the continuance of sovereignty in that family and dynasty, and through the passing of centuries and ages, no harm shall ever befall it.  AB07452

The justice and mercy of God is very difficult a subject and requires much reflection upon our Lord's words. First to know the meaning of justice. It is not equality, but the giving to everyone according to his right. The meaning of Justice is reward and punishment, when either one is due to the person to whom it is awarded.   ABU0507

"The object of punishment is not vengeance, but the prevention of crime." "If a person commit a crime against you, you have not the right to forgive him; but the law must punish him in order to prevent a repetition of that same crime by others, as the pain of the individual is unimportant beside the general welfare of the people."   ABU1959

A father or a teacher sometimes rewards children and sometimes punishes them. The purpose of his punishment is to train his children and is actually a form of mercy and kindness unto them. Although it appears as wrath yet in reality it is compassion. If it appears on the surface to involve hurt and pain inwardly it is sweet and refreshing water.  AB03452

In truth, undertaking that matter oneself was not permissible. However, the government has the right to carry out retribution through other means apart from the heir. Nevertheless, supplications and entreaties were made at the threshold of divine grace and favors, that pardon and forgiveness might encompass all and endless bounties might surround them.  AB09248

"Let us be friends and comrades and not as warring enemies. I invite you and all your army to be my guests for a few months. We will spread the feasts of joy and merry making and consort with each other with perfect intimacy. Our men instead of killing each other will live side by side. Is not this better than the grim battlefield strewn with dead and wounded?"   ABU0133

If the creatures act according to the Commandments, this has nothing to do with Mercy, but is Obedience. For illustration, a man called Sheikh Mohammed Hassan was made to attain the Gift, therefore the station of the Bounty and Mercy is altogether different from that of Justice. If a person does everything in Heaven and earth, he may not be fitted to receive the Gift of GOD.   ABU1271

That which traineth the world is Justice, for it is upheld by two pillars, reward and punishment. These two pillars are the sources of life to the world. Inasmuch as for each day there is a new problem and for every problem an expedient solution, such affairs should be referred to the House of Justice that the members thereof may act according to the needs and requirements of the time.  BH00053

For the kings of the world there has not been and is not any helper mightier than justice and wisdom... O concourse of rulers! There is no force in the world mightier than justice and wisdom. Blessed is the king before whose face marcheth the standard of wisdom and behind whom standeth the host of justice... The pavilion of the world's tranquility is upheld by these two pillars: justice and wisdom.   BH01934

Let the friends of God be the source of moderation and restraint, therefore; let them be the source of mercy and generosity to others. My hope is that they may illumine this dark world and show kindness to all its peoples, that they will treat the stranger as a friend and the deprived one as an intimate companion, that they will be compassionate towards the ignorant and offer guidance to the aggressor.  AB00951

Could we conceive of the Divinity, Who is Justice itself, inflicting punishment upon the posterity of Adam for Adam's own sin and disobedience? Even if we should see a governor, an earthly ruler punishing a son for the wrongdoing of his father, we would look upon that ruler as an unjust man. Granted the father committed a wrong, what was the wrong committed by the son? There is no connection between the two.  ABU0139

if a just government arises as it should to establish justice and equity, saving the predators from their predatory nature and consoling the oppressed, it will become the cause of success and prosperity and be confirmed in salvation and deliverance. We do not seek revenge nor are we content with anyone's punishment and torment. However, if severe retribution is not enacted, wolves will continually test their claws in the blood of God's sheep  AB01232

Know that justice consists in rendering to each his due. For example, when a workman labours from morning till evening, justice requires that he be paid his wage, but bounty consists in rewarding him even when he has done no work and expended no effort. So when you give alms to a poor man who has made no effort and done nothing for your benefit to deserve it, this is bounty. Thus, Christ besought forgiveness for those responsible for His death: This is called bounty.  AB00779

The happiness of humanity lies rather in recognized justice, love of virtue, and in giving every class of creation its due right. For divine creation varies in degrees of intelligence, capacity and perception. How then can equality be possible? And how can rewards and recompense be abolished? These are two principles that distinguish between people, and it is not possible to eliminate compensation which leads to advancement, nor punishment which casts down to the lowest depths.  AB00191

Justice is what Thou decreest, the ruling is what Thou pronouncest. There is no doubt that when the reality of matters becomes evident and manifest, whatsoever issueth from the source of supreme justice is the pure good of the subjects and the welfare of all the people...And when they had carefully examined the Ishraqat, the Most Holy Book, and other writings which constitute the greatest foundation of this community, they observed that all these petitions and appeals, all this clamoring and tumult and roaring, all these accusations, were pure calumny and absolute falsehood.  AB00115

If administrators of the law would take into consideration the spiritual consequences of their decisions, and follow the guidance of religion, They would be Divine agents in the world of action, the representatives of God for those who are on earth, and they would defend, for the love of God, the interests of His servants as they would defend their own. If a governor realizes his responsibility, and fears to defy the Divine Law, his judgments will be just. Above all, if he believes that the consequences of his actions will follow him beyond his earthly life, and that as he sows so must he reap, such a man will surely avoid injustice and tyranny.  ABU0253


