Even show hospitality to wild beasts and birds  AB04017

But when I saw them killing birds and animals, I thought this could not be right.   ABU2296

The Blessed Beauty knowing his love for hunting told him: 'Don't kill these innocent birds.'   ABU1960

As for the matter of animals, in this Cause there is great emphasis placed on showing kindness to animals.  AB01199

If you have been kind to a dog once in your lifetime it will never forget and will follow you whenever it sees you.  ABU2394

"Why do you beat this dumb dog?" asked the Baktashi. "Because it has entered the seminary and made the place unclean."   ABU3135

Raise birds and chicks so that you may learn to nurture living beings, and raise a parrot so that it may become a source of joy for you   AB06750

When you boil water, and the sheep and the cow raise their cries of anguish, both sets of organisms feel the agony of torment and murder.  ABU3680

Write in thy note book to give two loaves of bread and some meat every day to this dog, morning and evening, because he has been beaten and cursed for our sake.  ABU1026

even Mercy and Kindness practiced towards the plant is acceptable and beloved. Undoubtedly it is more praiseworthy to rear and water a tree than to exterminate it from its root.  AB09737

The animal, like unto man, is very dear to the people of truth. Therefore, man should be kind to both man and animal, and should strive as much as possible towards the comfort and protection of animals.  AB01394

It is necessary to be kind to both man and animal; for both have received a share from this life and are endowed with feelings. Mercy is commended and accepted by His Highness the Almighty whether it is exercised toward man or animal  AB09737

It is not permissible even to strike an animal. When an animal is trained properly, it becomes domesticated. The Arabs do not strike their horses as they train them, for they say that striking the horse will make it ill-tempered and unruly.  ABU3738

Train your children from their earliest days to be infinitely tender and loving to animals. If an animal be sick, let the children try to heal it, if it be hungry, let them feed it, if thirsty, let them quench its thirst, if weary, let them see that it rests.  AB00890

It is not permissible to strike even an animal. Good training brings the animal under instruction. It makes the crooked horn straight and turns the thorny place into a rose garden. The Arabs, when training horses, do not strike them. They say striking makes the horse ill-mannered and rebellious.   ABU1749

This animal has always been my companion; whether at home or on the road he has faithfully guarded me against danger... This is a trained dog who has been my constant companion, accompanying me on all my travels. It has performed good and faithful service and has rescued me many a time from life-threatening danger.   ABU1368

Man can live without meat. To kill an animal and eat his flesh seems to be cruelty, but today it is almost impossible for the people not to eat the flesh of animals. Every act can be done with tyranny or with justice. In vivisection justice and not tyranny should be practiced. If they do not give chloroform to a healthy animal it is tyranny.   ABU0471

The love shown by animals is instinctive and not dependent upon their own will--that is, they are endowed with their qualities and use them in a natural way, but not by their own will. As these qualities are instinctive and not voluntary, animals will not be rewarded. Their benefits are confined to this word only. A dog shows affection by instinct and not by will.  ABU1895

"It is very strange that a man should kill an animal for his food, but since meat is in the market one buys it. It is indeed very grievous to kill a lamb or other animal for one's food, for the feelings of an animal are just as great as our own. As by the slightest injury, for example, a thorn-prick, the man will cry out: how much more grievous is it to kill an animal."  ABU2764

How much better to see them tamed through the gentleness of man! In many countries of the West, laws are enacted to restrict the cruelty of man toward animals and in some states they are hunted only at certain seasons. When I was in America I went through several large zoological gardens, some of which covered many acres. In these gardens hunting is strictly prohibited. There are other large national Parks in Western America which I have not seen, where I have been told, gazelle and deer roam at will and man is not allowed to interfere with their freedom. In these places the animals become so tame that they associate with man. How ideal this is, how perfect, how good!   ABU1459

You see people who love their dogs because of their faithfulness and the protection they provide. If but one good trait endears a dog to a human, why shouldn't praiseworthy qualities cause a man to be loved and respected? Why should fellowship with an upright person be avoided? When people are prepared to fondle an animal day and night, why should they shun association with an intelligent human being?  ABU2128
