
The Primal Point states that no matter how high the people of ascent may climb the ladders of spiritual knowledge, they ultimately return to their own selves   ABU1833

To be selfless is to be pure.   ABU3603

The reality of man is his thought, not his material body.  ABU1414

Cast off yourself and come. Abandon this commanding self.  ABU0263

and when I consider my own self, lo, I find it coarser than clay!   BH11435

Take pride in your knowledge and refinement, not in your ancestors and garments.  BH11393

Free yourself from self and thoughts and imaginings that you may attain eternal life   AB01590

Everyone is better informed of the condition of his own soul than the souls of others.   ABU3334

This is the moment of freedom from the chains of self and passion - liberate yourselves.   BH09305

And has thou realized thy own shortcomings? One must always search for his own shortcomings  AB11285

The mysteries of love are the secrets of the heart, not something perceived by hearing and sight.  AB08722

Know ye your worth and recognize your station, lest what ye have borne in the path of God be lost.  BH11778

How strange that one should be occupied with the faults of others while heedless of his own faults!  AB08379

We must endeavor to discover the world of humanity and the mysteries hidden in the reality of man.   ABU1509

Therefore give thanks to God that you are aware of the whispers of the self and its endless intrigues   AB03376

One needs eyes, one needs eyes - and this eye is the vision of consciousness which comes from God's grace  AB09971

The object of God's teaching to man is that man may know himself in order to comprehend the greatness of God.   ABU1808

Verily, my self, my being, my essence, my spirit, and whatsoever lay hidden in my innermost heart belong to God alone.  BH00640

A person should first test their knowledge within themselves to see whether it is practically applicable or merely theoretical.   ABU3493

They are extremely egotistical and self-centered, yet completely unaware of human virtues and even of the sciences taught in schools.   AB03249

And as for what thou didst mention regarding thy powerlessness and nothingness before His countenance - this indeed is true recognition   BH05830

I soar in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them only that I may recognize Thy handiwork within myself.  BB00004

All teaching and knowledge are enclosed in the soul of man, because his soul encompasses everything. To study means to try to bring them to light.   ABU2176

Man is like unto a sword, and its essence is forbearance and piety. As long as it remains sheathed in the scabbard of self, its quality remaineth unknown.  BH11229


Tests are not sent as punishment, but in reality to reveal the soul to itself. Tests reveal strength as well as weakness and provide opportunity to remedy defects.  ABU3059

A man may converse with the ego within him saying: "May I do this? Would it be advisable for me to do this work?" Such as this is conversation with the higher self.   ABU1482

"Man is like unto a sword, and its essence is forbearance and godliness. So long as it remaineth sheathed in the scabbard of self, its true quality remaineth unknown."  BH00680

As for the way to reach this pivot, know thou that attaining unto the station of thine own reality is attaining unto thy Lord, and it is the station of pure God-fearing  BB00297

The "perceiving soul" of man is the power which discovers. Wheresoever it is directed it discovers the hidden mysteries therein, and brings to light that which was veiled.  AB05049

Whosoever hath cleansed the mirror of his heart from the rust of desire hath become worthy of this divine raiment and hath delivered himself from the nakedness of ignorance.   BH00779

Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting.  BH00386

Say: O friends! Know your own worth and relinquish not your stations...With perfect wisdom, an illumined heart and penetrating vision, journey through the horizons and within yourselves, and take heed   BH03958

Were you to become aware of the wondrous tokens of My generosity and grace which I have deposited within your own selves, you would surely become detached from all things, attaining unto the knowledge of your own self, which is the same as knowledge of Me   BH00249

Man is like unto a precious sword: as long as it remaineth concealed in the sheath no one knoweth its excellence and beauty and its precious nature, for it is concealed and veiled from sight. In like manner, until man's humanity becometh manifest his worth remaineth unknown.  BH09215

"The essence of loss is for one to pass his days and not know himself." The meaning is that until man recognizes the Truth, he remains deprived of knowing himself, for man must first perceive the light of the sun and by that light observe himself, since without light nothing can be seen.  AB09643

In the treasuries of the knowledge of God there lieth concealed a knowledge which, when applied, will largely, though not wholly, eliminate fear. This knowledge, however, should be taught from childhood, as it will greatly aid in its elimination. Whatever decreaseth fear increaseth courage.  BH00005

Know then that the purpose of creation hath ever been and shall ever be the knowledge of God, and this knowledge dependeth upon the recognition of His servants who perceive the Truth through their own vision and heart and nature, for imitation sufficeth not, whether in acceptance or rejection.  BH02135

Thou must look to thyself and within thyself and find thine own errors and weaknesses. If thou hast any imperfection thyself, try to improve it. Busy thyself with thine own improvement. Man is a blind far-seeing creature. He is blind to his own faults but he sees the faults of others, thousands of miles away.   ABU1924

Therefore break thou the idol of self, that thou mayest take up abode in the hiding place of the Friend. Pass beyond passion, that thou mayest wing thy flight to the Egypt of immortality. Purify the city of the heart, that thou mayest behold the Beauty of the Divine Essence and become quickened by the Holy Spirit from spirit itself.  BH02382



One must always search for his own shortcomings so that he may repent at the Threshold of Oneness and become protected and guarded; otherwise, pride and haughtiness will take possession of one's heart, and this will cause deprivation of the Bounties of the Court of Singleness. As thou hast realized thy own shortcomings, rest thou assured that thou art firm in the Covenant and Testament, and in the love of the True One are steadfast and growing.  AB10604



Consider, for instance, the rational soul which is a divine trust deposited within human beings. Observe within thyself how movement and rest, will and purpose, and all else above and below these, as well as hearing, sight, smell, speech, and other outward and inward senses, all exist through its existence. Indeed, were its connection with the body to be severed even slightly, all these senses would be deprived and prevented from their effects and actions. This is most evident and known, that the effect of all these aforementioned causes is dependent and conditional upon the existence of the rational soul, which is a sign of the manifestation of sovereign Unity. Through its manifestation all these names and attributes appear, and through its concealment all become non-existent and perish.   BH00210

 
