If companies give workers a share, both strikes will be eliminated and it will cause general progress.   ABU2850

It is necessary for the directors of companies and the owners of factories to allot a certain share, however small it may be, to their laborers so that their condition may be improved and they may be deterred from striking  ABU3120

The Managers of these Steamship companies must in a degree look after each ones comfort and well-being of these poor men. They are not treated with kindness, and work very hard. The scale of their wages is very low. All day they breathe the dust of the coal, and thus their lungs are affected.  ABU0606

Workers must certainly receive daily wages, but in addition they should have a share with the capitalists so they will work with the utmost effort. For example, a capitalist who has a thousand workers must give them moderate daily wages so they do not remain hungry and unclothed, and also allocate a portion of the profit income specifically for the workers to be distributed among them at year's end, causing the workers to show the utmost zeal and give the utmost importance to perfecting their craft and work.   AB00796


That all mankind might have opportunity, it was necessary to shorten the hours of labor so that the work of the world could be completed without such demand of strain and effort, and all human beings would have leisure to think and develop individual capacity.  ABU3667

The presidents of factories and other operations must allocate a share [of the profits] for the workers in their companies  ABU3748

Work is intended to give man self-assurance and dignity. Then why does one rob him of these two important fruits, by making work into drudgery, a load for those low on the economic ladder? ABU3440

the readjustment of the economic relations between the capitalists and laborers, so that each individual member of the world of humanity may enjoy the utmost welfare and prosperity   ABU2012

Of course the workers, when they partner in the factory with the company, will elect from among themselves individuals for consultation, and it is certain that whoever has more capital will have a greater share.   ABU3279

In future a manufacturer will not be allowed to leave all his property to his own family. A law will be made something like this-that he must leave one-quarter only of his property to his family, and the other three-quarters must go to the factory workers who have created his wealth.  ABU3325

Although expenses in England are less compared to America, still the wages of workers are low. This is why they go on strike and workers always unite and stop working. The Socialists cause revolution. Inevitably, complete rules and regulations must be established regarding workers' and laborers' affairs.   ABU2850

How poor are they [labourers on ship], and how hard they toil! The presidents of factories and other operations must allocate a share [of the profits] for the workers in their companies, so that these poor souls may know some comfort. Perchance they may serve with all their heart and soul as a result and not go on strike.  ABU3748

When the time comes for the working people to become the partners of their employers, will they have their own representatives to consult with the company and will those who invest more capital receive more shares?" Abdul-Baha replied: "Certainly, when the working people become partners with the company, they will select their own representatives for consultation and those who have more capital will earn more money."  ABU1420

The Capitalists must be kind toward the Workers and treat them with justice and fairness; and they should appreciate the value of their labour; for labourers are serving the Capitalists. In the same way labourers ought to be pleased and grateful to the Capitalists; for their means of subsistance and comfort depend upon the help of Capitalists. If there were no Capitalists the labourers would be extremely distressed.   AB04851


What hardship these coal miners have to suffer, how poor and needy they are! It is necessary for the directors of companies and the owners of factories to allot a certain share, however small it may be, to their laborers so that their condition may be improved  ABU3120
