This servant was not among the learned ones  BH11395

"this unlettered Youth Who calleth all to God"   BH04796

This Wronged One hath not attended schools nor engaged in formal discourse.   BH00436

This is He Who hath not read what ye possess, nor was He among those who are taught   BH04031

despite everyone knowing that throughout His life He had neither studied nor been taught   AB05088

The divine teacher does not come to acquire knowledge, for this tree of life is a fruit tree by birth and not through grafting. Behold the sacred tree which spreads its shade over the whole world! This is the mission of Baha'o'llah - for under this tree all questions are solved!   ABU0127

Know thou moreover that the Wronged One never attended schools nor associated with divines and theologians.  BH00333

"The Prophet Muhammad was basically unlettered, and most of the holy ones and great prophets wrote not a single word."  AB03104

We have never entered any school, nor do We wish to expound in Our Tablets what the people possess and their sciences.   BH09922

We have neither studied the sciences nor perused the arts. To this beareth witness every fair-minded and discerning soul.  BH08083

I had never entered any school, yet in my childhood days when I was speaking to a group in Baghdad according to their capacity...   ABU1449

These are from a person who never entered a school, who had never seen a teacher, who had never associated with people of learning   ABU1508

Now since He was noted amongst the people for lack of instruction and education, this circumstance appeared in the sight of men supernatural.  AB00003

We have not entered schools. We have come from the dawning-place of utterance with a Cause before which the hosts of the heavens and earth cannot stand.   BH03010

Similarly they regarded the numerous writings which, in spite of His lack of education, the Bab had composed, as due to the promptings of the Holy Spirit  AB00003

to deem him who will be the World Teacher to be in need of education by others is like trying to create a resplendent Sun by using the oil and wick of a candle.  ABU3698

It is universally acknowledged among the Shi'ih community that He never attended any school, nor did He acquire learning from anyone. All the people of Shiraz bear witness to this.  AB01889

The learning current amongst men I studied not; their schools I entered not. Ask of the city wherein I dwelt, that thou mayest be well assured that I am not of them who speak falsely.  BH00038

I am not possessed of the art of writing. But because this Unlettered One is clinging to the Divine Lote-Tree I can read without any knowledge and without being taught writing I write.   BH10779

We have not entered any school. I was seated when the hand of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, raised Me up, and I was silent when He caused Me to speak that which draweth you nigh unto Him.   BH01223

Thou knowest I have not studied the science of eloquence from any creature, but Thou hast inspired me when and how Thou wished with what Thou wished concerning what Thou wished.   BB00157

We have not entered schools, yet We have sent down from the heaven of knowledge and wisdom that before which all the learning of the earth hath bowed down, as every discerning one doth testify.  BH03188

Having never attended school nor studied books of learning, through divine power and celestial might and glory, openly and without any veil, He summoned and guided the divines and rulers of the earth   BH04358

the Bab, though having only practiced penmanship for a few pages, achieved such sweetness in His writing, and though only briefly schooled, such divine knowledge flowed from His blessed heart.  BHU0006

The great Prophets did not enter school to be taught of men, yet so many things did they manifest that at last we must admit that the world is not able to destroy the wisdom of the Prophets or grow without them.   ABU0107

I have not learned as ye learn, nor do I know what ye know, but God hath revealed Himself unto me through my own self, and hath caused me to speak by His leave that there is no God but I, the Mighty, the Well-Beloved.   BB00193

Know, O king, that I am a non-Arab youth from among the just merchants, unlettered in such wise that none hath encompassed my knowledge. The All-Wise hath chosen me, and verily there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BB00224

Though, in spite of His not being accounted among the learned, His being unschooled and inexperienced in the disputations current among the divines, He hath rained upon men the showers of His manifold and divinely-inspired knowledge.  BH02046

"One who is in need of the knowledge of the Professors of a university will not become the Manifestation of God. Christ was never taught by any man yet he was the universal Educator. Baha'u'llah did not study but his knowledge was immeasurable."  ABU0836

And say not How can one speak on God's behalf who is but twenty-five years old in truth by truth? Hear then, by the Lord of heaven and earth, I am indeed God's servant. He hath given me clear proofs from the presence of the Remnant of God, your Expected One.  BB00002

Reflect upon this Manifestation: though untutored, having attended no school nor engaged in scholarly discourse, suddenly the Light of wisdom and utterance dawned from the horizon of His Most Exalted Pen. The oceans of knowledge and understanding surge at His will.   BH00785

"This is also one of the most distinctive signs of the Baha'i cycle that a person who has never entered the doors of a school, who has not studied grammar and syntax sits down and writes such scholarly works... To those who are just, there is no greater proof than this!"  ABU1422

All the old Baha'is know that I have never studied Arabic. I have not taken one lesson in Arabic. No one may believe this but there are still some believers living who bear testimony to this fact. Yet my Arabic, both written and spoken is the masterpiece all over the East.   ABU2755

Abraham and Moses went to no school; Jesus had neither school nor master; Mohammed never had a lesson; the Bab and Baha'o'llah had no professors. Read the books written by Baha'o'llah - the philosophers and savants in the Orient will bear witness to his eloquence and learning.   ABU0127

Consider that in this Revelation all know that He attended no school, acquired no learning, and sprang not from a house of learning. Moreover, most of His days were spent in affliction, confined in various prisons. Yet His pen hath become the wellspring of infinite divine knowledge.   BH01282

This Wronged One hath frequented no school, neither hath He attended the controversies of the learned. The learning current amongst men I studied not; their schools I entered not. Ask of the city wherein I dwelt, that thou mayest be well assured that I am not of them who speak falsely.  BH00005

One who was never known for learning, was not from among the seminary students, and in his early days earned his livelihood through ordinary worldly means - as all have testified and continue to testify to this fact - yet suddenly oceans of knowledge in the form of verses began to flow from him.  BH00048

Mahomet was an Arab and wrote in Arabic - but - here on this coast - the Bab and the Blessed Perfection were not learned men: they were never taught and did not know Arabic - (the Bab was a merchant without learning) - yet they both wrote in Arabic the most wonderful choice of language and words.  ABU1056

When this Youth reached the age of Ha-Mim, We caused him to journey to the isle of the sea for six [months]. Muhammad, the Apostle of God, came before him, and he read not from the path of your knowledge with any learned one among you, yet he is eloquent in this Cause and non-Arabic speaking upon this path   BB00091

Even the unlettered Prophet - see His Holiness, our Lord Muhammad, the unlettered camel-driver - has revealed in the Qur'an verses of a grammatical correctness, purity of style and in a language which touches the heart, which will remain for ever the guideline, the eternally valid measure for the Arabic language.  ABU0218

Should your honor reflect upon the Cause of this servant, it would suffice. For you yourself bear witness that this servant has not acquired the outward sciences nor attended any school. Yet the waters of divine knowledge and wisdom flow from his tongue and pen in such measure that all creation is powerless to comprehend or enumerate them.   BH00874

Purify thy vision and refine thy sight. Verily God hath manifested the Cause from a station that hath never occurred to any heart, and He was unlettered in respect to those verses, prayers, addresses and allusions, for He saw no teacher for Himself except what the All-Merciful promised in the Surah of the All-Merciful   BB00073

his holiness Baha'o'llah had never been at any school nor studied any sciences. This is certain. People of learning used to come - people of sciences - people of religion, of every sect, and he would answer their questions. People were astonished that the Blessed Beauty had never studied. Where did he get his wisdom? Where his knowledge?   ABU0497

"A man with a stammering tongue can hardly sustain an ordinary conversation, let alone accomplish what He did! No: Were He not assisted by a divine power, He would never have been able to carry out such a mighty task...How can a mere shepherd lay the foundation for all these branches of learning? There is no doubt that He was assisted by an extraordinary power."  AB00855

The point is that even the enemies of the late Mirza loved the Blessed Beauty, and although all knew that He had never attended any school nor been taught by any teacher, all testified that in knowledge, learning and perfection He was peerless and unequaled. For instance, in Tehran whenever a difficult question was discussed and all were perplexed, the Blessed Beauty would solve it.  ABU0123

God hath never sent any Messenger whose books published before Him would be proof in themselves. This is unique to the Point of the Bayan, that if He should write a book in the mode of verses to one of the believers in the Qur'an or to others, the proof becometh complete and perfect through the Book itself upon beholding a single verse thereof, if the observer be possessed of insight and understanding.  BB00015

I was but a man like others, asleep upon My couch, when lo, the breezes of the All-Glorious were wafted over Me, and taught Me the knowledge of all that hath been. This thing is not from Me, but from One Who is Almighty and All-Knowing. And He bade Me lift up My voice between earth and heaven, and for this there befell Me what hath caused the tears of every man of understanding to flow. The learning current amongst men I studied not, their schools I entered not.  BH00007

His first reproach to them was this: Why do you reject the Torah and the Gospel, and wherefore do you refuse to believe in Christ and in Moses? This statement came indeed hard upon them, for they asked: What then is to be said of our fathers and forefathers, who did not believe in the Torah and the Gospel? He answered, They had gone astray, and it is incumbent upon you to renounce those who do not believe in the Torah and the Gospel, though they be your own forefathers.  AB00035

Baha'u'llah never studied Arabic, had a teacher or tutor, or entered a school. Nevertheless His eloquence and fluency in spoken Arabic, as well as in His Arabic Tablets, would astonish the most articulate and accomplished among the Arab men of letters, and all acknowledged that in this His attainments were without peer or equal. His father was a court minister, not a divine, and it is well known throughout Persia that He never studied in a school or associated with the learned and the divines.  AB00029

For if one from whose life only twenty-four years have passed, and who is devoid of those sciences wherein all are learned, now reciteth verses after such fashion without thought or hesitation, writes a thousand verses of prayer in the course of five hours without pause of the pen, and produceth commentaries and learned treatises on such lofty themes as the true understanding of God and of the oneness of His Being, in a manner which doctors and philosophers confess surpasseth their power of understanding, then there is no doubt that all that hath been manifested is divinely inspired.  BB00001

Another proof is that it is established among all the nobles and scholars of Iran in Tehran that Baha'u'llah never attended any school nor received instruction in any academy. From early childhood He followed a different path and conduct. Nevertheless, the scholars and learned ones of Eastern nations testified to His knowledge, learning, wisdom, and extraordinary perfections. Even while denying and showing extreme enmity, they acknowledge that Baha'u'llah was unique in His age and unequaled in His time, though they do not recognize His exalted stations except for the sincere and chosen ones.   AB00304

This Wronged One hath neither associated with you and your like, nor seen your books, nor entered your classes. His hat, His locks, and His attire all bear witness to what hath been said.... God hath manifested His Cause from a House wherein was found naught of what the divines, the jurists, the mystics and the learned possessed.   BH04596
