The tongue of the soul is the tongue-less tongue. The spirit speaks in every language, in no particular tongue.  ABU1813


The purpose of every language is to convey inner meanings, and the purpose of every inner meaning is to explain fundamental truths.  AB05862


Emmanuel was indeed the Herald of the Second Coming of Christ, and a Summoner to the pathway of the Kingdom. It is evident that the Letter is a member of the Word, and this membership in the Word signifieth that the Letter is dependent for its value on the Word, that is, it deriveth its grace from the Word; it has a spiritual kinship with the Word, and is accounted an integral part of the Word. The Apostles were even as Letters, and Christ was the essence of the Word Itself; and the meaning of the Word, which is grace everlasting, cast a splendor on those Letters.  AB00276


Verily We have sent down the Book to every nation in their tongue, and We have sent down this Book in the tongue of the Remembrance, with truth upon truth, wondrously.  BB00002


Words are like cups and meanings like wine - when the cup is in utmost delicacy and the wine in utmost sweetness, it becomes light upon light. The words of friends are like crystal decanters and their meanings are spiritual wine. When both come together in the letters of friends, spirit and fragrance result, and this becomes evidence of the reality and spirituality of conscience. AB05356


Persian, Arabic and Turkish are all languages of the lovers of the Beauty of the Beloved. Love itself hath a hundred other tongues. The purpose is meanings, not words - reality, not metaphor.  AB10117


The function of language is to portray the mysteries and secrets of human hearts. The heart is like a box, and language is the key. Only by using the key can we open the box and observe the gems it contains.   ABU1584


Observe the letters: individually these servants comprehend nothing from them and find no definite meaning therein, but after their combination and the appearance of words their meaning becomes clear and manifest   BH07024


"language is the most profound symbol of a people, nay, language is the vestment of the spirit of the people, language is the measure of the level of the culture of a nation. An uncontrolled mixing of languages soon affects the art and then the morale of the people."  ABU0201


Sometimes, a translation is better than the original. A translator must fully comprehend the meaning [and the context] of the words. For instance, some citizens of Iran can read, write and even compose poetry, but do not have a thorough command of the Persian language.   ABU2232

The Master said we should speak in the language of heaven - in the language of the spirit - for there is a language of the spirit and heart. It is as different from our language, as ours is different from that of animals, for they express themselves only by cries and sounds.  ABU0322


The letters (alphabet) and the numbers (arithmetic) have a mystic correspondence with transcendent reality. The letters and numbers are the elements of the spiritual and material worlds. As words these elements are the source of all things intellectual, as letters they represent the source of matter.   ABU0227



...translate at least one page every day, either from English into Persian or from Persian into English, thus they may gain efficiency in this line of work. He recommended that in the future when the means are provided a committee of translators be organized of both nationalities who know the two languages well in addition to Arabic. Then the Tablets will be properly translated.   ABU3175


Angelic and human, celestial and aerial, fiery are her fragrant breezes - southerly, easterly, westerly, northerly - all directions are her directions. And when thou hast understood this, know that Writing is likewise. For when letters are elevated and enter their gardens, all letters become one letter, all words one word, all languages one language, and all grammatical forms one form. Then a single word becomes noun and verb and particle, declinable and indeclinable, variable and invariable, subject and object, possessed and possessor, subject and predicate, circumstantial phrase and specification - unto infinity. A single governing word effects nominative, accusative, genitive and jussive cases, while a single governed word becomes nominative, accusative, genitive and jussive by condition. Thou seest not the nominative as other than the accusative, nor the accusative as other than the genitive, nor the genitive as other than the jussive. Each word indicates every meaning, and a single word becomes singular and dual and plural, masculine and feminine. When thou hast understood this, O precious youth, solace of the discerning ones, mirror of the wise, lamp of the learned, light of the mystics, radiance of the monotheists, brother of prophethood and mine of divine authority - may God preserve him from the eyes of the oppressors - when he desired that people should know that station and that drops might splash upon them from that vast ocean, they recoiled from him and turned back on their heels, saying "We have never heard the like of this; this is naught but error." God slay them for their lack of understanding! This eloquent nightingale warbled upon the tree of origin and return. And since he - peace be upon him - was of the people of that Faith, his words must needs be thus, for the effect resembles the qualities of its cause. This is no proof of imperfection, rather it is proof of perfection in the eyes of those possessed of perfection who have attained the pinnacle of moderation. Woe, utter woe unto those who say that he - peace be upon him - knows not grammar and morphology! How could he not know, when the essence of all knowledge is in his hand and the reality of all things is with him? The essence of grammar is with him, and the essence of morphology. These people have naught but the husks and outer forms that neither nourish nor satisfy hunger.  BB00023

Then know, O my strong confidant, that the name is the mark of the thing as it is in its essence. It has ranks, among them that mirrors its grace, words its limit, forms its attribute, and inscribed images its trace. For every book according to the decree of all is from God, inexhaustible. God has made words as bodies for spirits which are meanings, and God has written with His hands between them a true relationship, and there was naught between them save as between the Kaf and the Nun.  BB00239

