
Recite the Greatest Name at every morn  AB10284

The Greatest Name should be read every day.  AB05753

continue (saying) the Greatest Name every morning  AB11277

If you fall into trouble say "Ya Baha'u'l Abha"; and if anyone oppose you, say "Ya Baha ul Abha" Even when you may be in your work, mention "Ya Baha ul Abha."   ABU2535

we told him we opened our service by saying the Greatest Name (in silence) nine times. He replied, That is very good, that is right for that brings harmony into the meeting.  ABU2608

Regarding the recitation of the Greatest Name. It is necessary to recite it 95 times every day. If you, with perfect joy and fragrance should wish to say it more than 95 times, it is also acceptable.  AB07511

It hath been ordained that every believer in God, the Lord of Judgement, shall, each day, having washed his hands and then his face, seat himself and, turning unto God, repeat Allah-u-Abha ninety-five times. Such was the decree of the Maker of the Heavens when, with majesty and power, He established Himself upon the thrones of His Names.  BH00001

Concerning the greeting which thou didst mention [Allah-u-Abha], this servant's heart and soul desire that the blessed Name alone may be the spiritual fragrance of the sincere ones in the gardens of the earthly and heavenly kingdoms. And when this holy Name reaches my ears, my soul becomes filled with spirit and sweet fragrance, and my spirit is moved. Therefore, O friend, seek what brings joy to my heart and soul, and raise such a cry of Allah-u-Abha that it may reach the ears of all the sincere ones here and gladden the heart of this servant. Due to the honor of this blessed Name, I long to see thy face so that I may hear this blessed Name from thy tongue with my own ears. Consider with what a bounty thou hast been distinguished! It behooveth thee to cry out among the concourse of the world: "Blessed am I for this great favor!" And the Glory be upon thee and upon the sincere servants of God. These four greetings are from the commandments of His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him) and have not been abrogated, and you have not acted contrary to the Law of God. But this servant's desire is that even the minor traditions of the blessed days should continue until the Day of Resurrection, let alone this greeting which was among the special characteristics of the blessed days and from hearing which my spirit is moved and my soul is filled with glad tidings.  AB02696 
