


Today the payment of Huququ'llah is a most momentous deed. A hundred thousand blessings upon those souls who have held fast to the Book of God and acted according to it.  BH00488

As to what thou didst mention concerning the Huquq, We have commanded him who circleth round the Throne to write for thee what God, the Lord of the worlds, hath desired.   BH01612

The Blessed Beauty hath emphasized through His decisive Word that the utmost honesty hath to be observed in matters related to the Huquq. The institution of Huquq is sacred.  AB11224

The law of Huququ'llah has been made obligatory and binding in the Book of God, as it is the cause of progress, steadfastness, firmness and the attainment of blessings for the giver  AB12370

The Huquq is received and spent by permission of the Center of the Covenant. If there are small amounts of Huquq in those regions, you are authorized to distribute them among the poor.  AB11499

We have designated thee a trustee of God, have bidden thee to observe that which shall exalt the Cause of Him Who is the Lord of the worlds, and have bestowed upon thee the right to receive Huququ'llah.  BH04864

They have also stated regarding the Huquq that whatever they can send should be sent, as these days some hardship hath appeared, but God will change it to ease, verily He is the All-Powerful, the Almighty.   BH01274

And collect the Huquq according to the texts of the Kitab-i-Aqdas in a place and spend it where necessary, but do not require anyone there to pay Huquq except if they give it of their own accord and good pleasure.  AB05229

Regarding the Huquq, according to the command, twenty-five tumans should be given to Jinab-i-Amin Effendi, upon him be God's peace, as this was promised to him previously but until now its payment was not possible.  BH10820

And whosoever desires with utmost longing to pay the Huququ'llah should give it to such trusted ones as yourself and obtain a receipt, so that whatever transpires may occur with the permission and leave of the Truth.  BH00398

As for the Right of God, wherever it is found, it is best that it be given to the poor of that land. Well is it with them that act in accordance with what they have been bidden by the Mighty, the Paramount, the All-Wise.  BH11384

Should anyone acquire one hundred mithqals of gold, nineteen mithqals thereof are God's and to be rendered unto Him, the Fashioner of earth and heaven. Take heed, O people, lest ye deprive yourselves of so great a bounty.  BH00001

The well-to-do (among the Baha'is) should, apart from the tax on capital or for the poor payable once - namely 1/19 of one's possessions - give 1/5 of the increase of capital to the House of Justice every two or three years.  ABU0375

Last year there flowed from the Most Exalted Pen concerning the payment of the Rights of God that which is recorded in the Tablets. These are the Rights which have been prescribed for everyone by God and were formerly ordained.   BH01402

And concerning those servants of God and handmaidens who were enabled to pay the Rights of God and sent them - these were received. Praise be to God, they were confirmed in that which was revealed in the Book from the Supreme Pen.  BH11375

Baha'u'llah, likewise, commanded the rich to give freely to the poor. In the Kitab-i-Aqdas it is further written by Him that those who have a certain amount of income must give one-fifth of it to God, the Creator of heaven and earth.  ABU0437

When the value of gold and silver of any person reaches the number of the letters and the two Ha's, one-sixth thereof is due to God. Those who possess only the number belonging to God are exempt, so that the poor may receive from their Lord.  BB00020

Huquq applies to all possessions, but if someone has paid Huquq on a property and its income is only sufficient for their needs, no further Huquq is required. On farming equipment and even draft animals, to the extent needed, no Huquq is applied.  AB01909

This is the basic principle on which the institution of Huququ'llah is established, inasmuch as its proceeds are dedicated to the furtherance of these ends. Otherwise the one true God hath ever been and will always be independent of all else beside Him.  AB00446

As to the matter of Huquq, place no one under pressure, nor make any remark to anyone! If any sincere and sacrificial soul should, with complete willingness and pleasure, offer something as Huquq or as assistance to the poor, then thou mayest accept it.  AB10990

As to the way the Huquq must be paid: Having deducted the expenses incurred during the year, any excess of income derived from one's property, profession or business is subject to the payment of Huquq. However, the selling of properties is not permitted.  AB11145

As to what you wrote regarding what was mentioned to those souls that the Huququ'llah cannot be given to just anyone - this statement is true. The Huququ'llah must be collected by trustworthy souls and then sent to the Most Holy Court through God's trusted ones.   BH00508

Division of the estate should take place only after the Huququ'llah hath been paid, any debts have been settled, the expenses of the funeral and burial defrayed, and such provision made that the deceased may be carried to his resting-place with dignity and honour.  BH00001

Thank thou and bless thou the Lord for He hath allowed thee to offer Him the Right of God. This is verily a special favor on His part, for thee; praise Him then for this commandment that is set forth in the Scriptures of thy Lord, of Him that is the Ancient of Days.  AB04591

Regarding what was written about the Huquq, according to the command, that which must reach the Right should be delivered to the beloved Aqa Mirza Muhammad-Taqi, upon him be the Glory of God and His grace, and the receipt thereof should be forwarded to the Most Holy Court.  BH03000

Regarding the properties you wrote about selling to pay the Huquq - this is absolutely not permitted. As for the Huquq that has become due from you, I beseech with utmost supplication at the Divine Threshold that it be forgiven. Therefore, do not touch the properties at all.   AB00695

The payment of the Rights of God is obligatory upon all and its ordinance hath been revealed and established by the Most Exalted Pen in the Book. However, demanding and insisting upon it is never permitted. If anyone is enabled to pay it and delivers it with joy and radiance, it is accepted; otherwise, no.  BH00092

The sum which the honored master, His Holiness Amin, upon him be Baha'u'llah, has sent by draft pertains to the Huquq which His Holiness Haji Ali, upon him be Baha'u'llah, was to deliver to His Holiness A.H., upon him be from all the Most Glorious Beauty, and they were to deliver this amount to that beloved one.   BH00527

However, after that loved one's second letter wherein he had written of his desire to pay the Huququ'llah, after this matter was presented, He said that if the Huquq is paid and this edifice is raised therefrom, it would be nearer and more excellent in the sight of God and would be adorned with the ornament of acceptance.   BH01277

Regarding Huquq, after deducting the full year's expenses, whatever surplus remains becomes subject to Huquq. However, funds and property that serve as means of livelihood, for which Huquq has been paid once, or property for which Huquq has been paid, if its income barely suffices for expenses, no further Huquq is due on it.   AB00324

Today the payment of Huquq is obligatory and binding upon everyone. We have commanded its collection provided it is done in a spirit of joy and radiance - that is, that the servants of the All-Merciful pay it of their own accord with utmost happiness and gladness. If it is not paid in this manner, its collection is not permissible.  BH00099

Therefore, in compliance with the precept of reward which is ordained by the Lord of Utterance, thou hast been appointed as Trustee of the Huquq and should presently, through the strengthening grace and bounty of the All-Merciful, take up this duty in Tihran, inasmuch as Jinab-i-Amin will occasionally travel to the outlying provinces.  AB04070

The demanding of the Rights of God hath never been and is not permissible. This decree hath been revealed in God's Book for certain necessary matters which have been ordained through divine causes. If someone, with utmost contentment and joy, nay rather with insistence, wisheth to attain this bounty, it may be accepted; otherwise, no.   BH00886

Know thou that We had previously commanded thee to divide what thou hast of the rights of God into three portions, then spend two-thirds upon thy kindred and upon the poor in that place, for We have heard the cry of those in distress and therefore have We commanded thee thus. Act thou according to what thou hast been commanded by One All-Wise, All-Knowing.  BH01645

It was written to some that since the friends in Persia demonstrate the utmost sacrifice, there is therefore no need to accept it from elsewhere. In America and other places, they are authorized by the permission of Abdu'l-Baha to spend the Huquq in their own necessary areas, and this authorization is considered payment of the Huquq, for it is like a draft.  AB11033

That which was issued from the Source of Command this year was that if anyone wishes to pay the Huququ'llah with complete willingness and satisfaction, the Trustees of the lands should receive it and present it. Until this year, although the law of Huquq was revealed in the Book of God with explicit text, not a word was heard from the blessed tongue regarding this matter.  BH00282

And likewise according to His command, they should write with wisdom and utterance to certain quarters regarding the Huquq, that which is the cause of confirmation of the servants, that perchance they may be enabled to act according to what the All-Bestowing One hath revealed in the Book. And of whatever is received, half should be given to the friends of God in that land.  BH00129

My brother Ustad Kazim, from whom no good effects have been witnessed, has multiple veils. Among them is that this humble one had sent two payments for the Huquq - once through His Honor the Trustee, upon him be the Glory of God, and once through His Honor Afnan, upon him be all the Most Glorious Glory. One payment arrived and they wrote it in my brother Ustad Kazim's name.  BH01294

First must they arise to pay the Rights of God if they are able, for this deed is the greatest means for the rectification of outward affairs and inward conditions, and for attaining the good pleasure of God, exalted be His glory. Otherwise, verily thy Lord is the All-Bestowing, the Compassionate, the Bountiful. Moreover, it is the cause of the purification of one's wealth.  BH04862

After one has paid all his necessary expenses 19% of what is left is taken by him and given as Huquq. For example if a person has 100 piastres left after all his expenses have been paid, then 19 piastres are taken as Huquq for the Cause of God. This is done at the end of the year after he has ascertained what his expenses are. For every hundred piastres, 19 are taken for Huquq.  ABU0849

Regarding what thou didst write about the Huququ'llah, the firm divine ordinance hath been revealed in the Book, and this matter dependeth upon the acceptance of the souls themselves, for God, exalted be His glory, looking to His previous mercy, hath informed all of what hath been prescribed in the Book. Blessed are they that act! Demanding it is not and hath never been beloved.  BH00090

Regarding the Huquq, all was forgiven and bestowed through His grace, including the Huquq of the departed one, upon her be the Glory of God. In this regard, they said: We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to shelter her beneath the shadow of His mercy and to send down upon her from the heaven of His bounty that which will gladden her heart and the hearts of the devoted ones in the chambers.  BH04860

Regarding what thou hast mentioned about the Huquq, this matter depends on the willingness and acceptance of souls. Reminding others of it is beloved, but demanding it is forbidden. Its benefits return to the souls themselves. Whosoever pays the Huquq of God with spirit and fragrance and with eagerness and longing, its acceptance is permitted; otherwise, thy Lord is the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.  BH00495

Since 'Abdu'l-Baha absolutely does not wish to impose on anyone, you and Jenab-i-Amin must send with utmost speed ten thousand tumans from what is available to Haji Mahmud Qa??abchi in Baghdad, for the construction of the House requires at least thirty or forty thousand tumans, and this is among the most pressing expenses that cannot be delayed. According to the people, it is more obligatory than prayer.  AB00633

There was a paper with the names of friends who had given the Huquq in previous years, and those rights were transferred to the assembly of Hamadan for the maintenance of schools and other terrestrial expenses. Last year they wrote from Hamadan that some Huquq had been collected, and it was written that it should be spent in Hamadan itself for organizing schools, educating children, and training orphans.   AB00313

Regarding the Huquq, the honored Ismu'llah Jamal, upon him be all the most glorious and resplendent Glory, hath mentioned the details which were presented before the Most Holy Court and were accepted. According to the command of the Beloved of hearts, it hath been assigned to the honored Amin, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God, that he may act according to the manifest will shining from the horizon of decree.   BH00895

There has never been any doubt that whatever has been revealed and issued forth from the Most Exalted Pen regarding commandments and prohibitions redounds to the benefit of the servants themselves. For example, among these is the Huququ'llah that hath been revealed. If people succeed in paying it, assuredly God, glorified and exalted be He, will bestow His blessing, and that wealth will benefit that person and his posterity.  BH00325

"As to what was written regarding the Huququ'llah, thus far in that land no one has been appointed to receive the Rights of God. For several years the matter of Huquq was suspended, as permission for its collection had not been issued from the Source of the Cause. In recent years this blessed word shone forth from the tongue of the Divine Unity - exalted be His utterance: 'Whosoever desires to pay the Rights of God, let the Trustees receive it.'"  BH00473

Until this year, this servant always heard these words from the tongue of Grandeur regarding the Huququ'llah, saying that no one should demand Huququ'llah from anyone, as this depends on the success and pleasure of the servants themselves to pay with complete contentment and submission. However, this year, in view of current affairs and apparent conditions, they said that each of the loved ones of God upon whom Huququ'llah has become binding must pay it.   BH00567

As for the Huquq, half of what is prescribed hath been adorned with the ornament of God's forgiveness, and the remainder may be paid gradually whenever divine confirmations arrive. O Letter Ha! God is witness and testifier that although the Huquq belongs to God Himself and is mentioned in all heavenly Books, were it not for this concession, not a penny would have been accepted. However, as a token of grace and worthiness, some has been accepted for the sake of God.  BH07776

Concerning what was written about the Rights of God (Huququ'llah), truly much trouble hath been caused to your honor. After it was presented before the Most Holy and Exalted Presence, He said that the benefits of charitable deeds return to the souls themselves, and in these matters the utterance of a single word sufficeth. Whosoever payeth it with the utmost joy and radiance, with submission and contentment, it is acceptable before God; otherwise, He verily is independent of all worlds.   BH00261

As for Huququ'llah, it is the source of blessing and the manifestation of bounty and loving-kindness for the servants. He, verily, is independent of what hath been and what shall be. Until two years ago, the matter of Huquq was concealed, and even after it was revealed, this was due to grace. Should anyone be enabled to act in accordance with what hath been revealed in the Most Holy Book, this would assuredly be best, most exalted and most befitting for him. This ordinance is binding when possible.   BH00979

As to what thou hast mentioned regarding the Rights of God, this pertaineth exclusively to God, exalted be His glory. It must be sent to the Holy Court. The matter is in His hands. He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth. Since thou hast inquired, this answer hath been sent down from the heaven of bounty. This matter is obligatory upon all, and the honor of all lieth in its payment, for it is the cause of the purification of one's possessions and the source of blessing and increase in bounty.   BH00722

Thank thou God for confirming thee in obeying His command in the Kitab-i-Aqdas such that thou hast fulfilled the rights and God has accepted from thee this blessed deed. Then know thou verily that God has enriched the servants of the Merciful from the treasury of His Kingdom, but the giving of the Rights is a test from God to His servants and handmaidens. Therefore every sincere and pure one offers the Rights for the purpose of spending on the poor, the weak, the needy, the orphans, and other necessary expenses in the Cause of God  AB10178

Thou hadst asked about Huquq. I do not wish to write anything regarding this matter, but ask Mr. Wilhelm as he is aware and will explain it. In brief, after having deducted the yearly expenses, if there remains anything from trade, Huquq will be applicable to it at the rate of nineteen percent, and no further payment of Huquq will fall due on this amount. In the following year however, after the annual expenses, if there is profit in excess of expenditure, then Huquq will again be applicable to this excess amount after deducting that year's expenses.  AB09292

From the annual income man must deduct his yearly expenditure. Then from residue 19 percent must be given as Huquq. This means that during the year a personal income from his business is 1000 pounds. His yearly expenditure, which amounts to 600 pounds, must be deducted. Four hundred pounds will be the residue. From this 400 pounds nineteen percent Huquq must be taken. That is, from every hundred pounds of this 400 pounds, nineteen percent, whose total will be 76 pounds, which must be taken as Huquq, to be spent for benevolent purposes (public interests).   AB04325

As for the matter of the Huquq funds you sent through Ahmad, since all communication is completely cut off, it remains with him and will arrive later. And since you asked how you should send any Huquq or poor-relief funds if you wish to send them, it is now written that you should send them through a very trustworthy and experienced person who can go from America to Germany, from Germany to Vienna, from Vienna to Constantinople, and from Constantinople to the Holy Land. In this way it is possible, and the amount should be either in British or French currency.  AB03401

As for the Huququ'llah, that which was revealed in the Most Holy Book is nineteen mithqals for every hundred mithqals, whether of gold or silver or existing possessions. Likewise rights have been designated for the House of Justice, and prior to its establishment and its members, the disposal thereof has been and will be dependent upon God's leave. Beseech God, glorified and exalted be He, to aid the people to pay the rights, for if all were to comprehend the fruit of this deed and not withhold the divine rights, the friends in that land would not experience hardship.  BH01306

As to the question of Huquq: Reference to this matter is in no wise permissible. We have formerly enjoined upon you and Jinab-i-Amin that which will redound to the glory and dignity of the Word of God and of His Cause. Touching on this particular subject We have bidden thus: Ye may relinquish the whole world but must not allow the detraction of even one jot or tittle from the dignity of the Cause of God. Jinab-i-Amin -- upon him be My glory -- must also refrain from mentioning this matter, for it is entirely dependent upon the willingness of the individuals themselves.  BH05026

That which you wrote concerning the mention and service of the friends of God, especially regarding the honored friend J.L.H., may the glory and favors of God rest upon him, and his intention, as well as the payment of the Rights of God by all, was presented at the Most Holy Court. His blessed and exalted Word: "Praise be to God, they are blessed with His favors, steadfast in service, speaking His praise and turned toward His face. However, since they are engaged in service and their station is that of the friends and wayfarers, the payment of the Rights depends on their own will."  BH01944

As to what thou didst mention regarding the Huququ'llah, writing that a certain one possesseth both cash and property, and while the Huququ'llah on the cash is clear, the property is in a place where none will purchase it so that the Huququ'llah might be separated from it, and if he wished to pay from the cash it would not suffice, and the individual himself would lose his livelihood, and the property yields no rent - in such case what is required? The decree of God is that property from which no profit is derived, that is, from which no benefit is obtained, no Huququ'llah is payable thereon.   BH01075

With regard to the beloved and honored Amin, upon him be the Glory of God and His grace, you wrote concerning his traveling to collect the Huquq and that without this he would not come. Therefore it was written to him to come to this land that perchance some may, God willing, become enabled to pay the Huquq. Whosoever today succeeds in paying the Rights of God is among those who have acted according to the commandments of God, exalted be His majesty, and have attained to that which hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen. However, We have ever written and commanded that none should make demands.  BH03018

In this day it is incumbent upon everyone to meet the obligation of the Right of God as far as it lieth in his power. For a number of years it was not permitted to accept the payment of Huquq. Recently, however, We have issued instructions to receive it. Therefore the friends in that region should, as far as possible, collect the payments, and remit the amounts either to Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin - upon him be the glory of God - in Hadba, or to the Trustee of God in the land of Ya, who will forward them. The observance of this ordinance hath been and will always be conducive to prosperity, to divine increase and to salvation.  BH10529

The draft of 200 pounds you had sent through Ahmed Yazdi has been received. And similarly the draft of 1000 (a thousand) dollars which you had sent payable to Mirza Jalal. Likewise a sum of twenty pounds has been received from Miss Root. This is all that has been received from you and through you from those regions. In your letter dated February 15, you had written that next week I expect to forward some Huquq through the Anglo Egyptian Bank at Haifa. So far it has not been received. All that has been sent through you so far (i.e., 420 pounds) has been distributed among the poor immediately. But the poor people are numerous and in the utmost need.  AB00946

Then He made obligatory upon them, in all that people acquire, the Fifth (Khums) and attributed it to the honor of the kindred of the Messenger of God, peace be upon him and his family, by Himself, like the ordinance of pilgrimage. Indeed, honor belongs to God, then the pilgrimage to the House for those who are able, then the Fifth of what people acquire in everything is for Himself, then for His Messenger Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, then for the near of kin - the successors of Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, then for the orphans, the poor, and the wayfarer from the progeny of Hashim, as they are called after their fathers.  BB00039

Concerning the Huquq, it has not been restricted to his honor the Trustee, upon him be the Glory of God. It was said that whatever reaches him is executed and approved. They have said that it is absolutely not permissible for anyone to direct his attention specifically to the Huquq for any purpose. The intention must be the remembrance of God and the promotion of the Cause. Had outward exigencies not required it, the command to collect would not have been given. Even as in the early years its collection was forbidden, but later, in view of the victory of the Cause and the exaltation of the Word, it became necessary and the command to collect the Huquq was given.  BH03018

What is the Command regarding the giving of tithes: Is it 19% of the increase of one's capital, or it is the one-nineteenth part of one's income? A. --It should be the one-nineteenth part of one's income. This tithe giving is a blessed privilege. Among mankind money is the greatest thing. This giving will confirm the people. With this money many great works will be done. In Hamadan in Persia, the Jewish believers raised much money in this way. At first I did not accept this money, but later on I directed that it should be used in their own town for the Baha'i school. This giving was a great spiritual blessing to those believers. Everyone knows how the Jews love money.   ABU1524

whatever has reached your honor regarding the Huququ'llah from any soul and any place has reached this evanescent servant through the King of Martyrs, His Holiness the Name of God "?", upon him be all the most glorious Baha. We beseech God to assist those who have acted according to what they were commanded in the Book and to send down upon them from the heaven of His grace a blessing and mercy and benediction from His presence. Verily He is the Mighty, the Bestower. In truth the matter of divine rights is a great matter, incumbent upon all to fulfill, for it is the cause of bounty and blessing and goodness and whatsoever accompanies every soul in every world of the worlds of their Lord, the Self-Sufficient, the Generous.   BH01554

From these fifty tumans, as commanded, five tumans were spent on hospitality on his behalf, and certain arrangements were made regarding the aforementioned souls, upon them be the Glory of God. The handmaiden of God who had the honor of serving the House of her Lord, namely the noble lady Sayyidih, upon her be the Glory of God, gave five tumans for her daughter. That sum was received here and the aforementioned hospitality was provided from it. And the aforementioned fifty tumans were assigned to be delivered to the beloved of the heart, His Holiness Samandar, upon him be the Glory of God, that he might distribute that sum along with the twenty-four tumans to the friends of God, exalted be His Glory, according to the distribution document.  BH00419

It is certain and evident that the Incomparable One is always praised for His absolute wealth, distinguished for His all-embracing mercy, characterized by His eternal grace, and known for His gifts to the world of existence. Nonetheless, in accordance with His inscrutable wisdom and in order to apply a unique test to distinguish the friend from the stranger, He hath enjoined the Huquq upon His servants and made it obligatory. Those who have observed this weighty ordinance have received heavenly blessings and in both worlds their faces have shone radiantly and their nostrils have been perfumed by the sweet savours of God's tender mercy. One of the tokens of His consummate wisdom is that the payment of the Huquq will enable the donors to become firm and steadfast and will exert a great influence on their hearts and souls. Furthermore, the Huquq will be used for charitable purposes.  AB01016

Concerning what was written about the threshold for Huququ'llah, it is as was written to Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin (upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious). The basic threshold upon which Huquq becomes applicable is nineteen, and this accords with the Most Holy Book, for in that verse the intention was to explain the amount, not the threshold. Verily He is the Expositor in the beginning and the end. Until this year, mention of Huququ'llah had not been made - that is, this servant had not heard a word from the Most Holy Tongue indicating the collection of Huquq. However, in this year the firm decree was issued and appeared manifest from the horizon of the Cause. They stated that should anyone wish to pay Huququ'llah willingly and gladly, it would be accepted and the trustees should receive it and, as commanded, inform the Most Holy Court. Although the Most Holy Book was revealed from the heaven of the Cause several years ago and the law of Huquq was established therein, nevertheless until this year They did not command its collection.   BH00847

For a number of years Huquq was not accepted. How numerous the offerings that on reaching Our presence were returned to the donors, because they were not needed then. However, in recent years We have, in view of the exigencies of the times, accepted the payment of the Huquq, but have forbidden solicitation thereof. Everyone must have the utmost regard for the dignity of the Word of God and for the exaltation of His Cause. Were a person to offer all the treasures of the earth at the cost of debasing the honour of the Cause of God, were it even less than a grain of mustard, such an offering would not be permissible. All the world hath belonged and will always belong to God. If one spontaneously offereth Huquq with the utmost joy and radiance it will be acceptable, and not otherwise. The benefit of such deeds reverteth unto the individuals themselves. This measure hath been ordained in view of the necessity for material means, for averse is God from putting aught into effect except through its means. Thus instructions were given to receive the Huquq.  BH05250

Questions were submitted concerning the divine ordinances, and from the Dayspring of grace this answer shone forth and appeared, these are His words, exalted be His glory: O Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin! God willing, may you be successful through God's grace in all worlds. Your questions are accepted before the Throne, for in them lies benefit for all creation. We have specifically commanded you to inquire about the divine laws and verses. When a person acquires ownership of one thousand mithqals of gold and pays its Huququ'llah, no further Huququ'llah is payable on that property unless it increases through trade and business dealings and reaches the amount subject to Huququ'llah - that is, on any profits derived therefrom. In such cases, one must act according to what God has decreed. However, if the property passes into other hands, Huququ'llah becomes payable on it again as it was the first time. The Primal Point has stated that Huququ'llah must be paid on the value of all things that one possesses, but in view of His supreme bounty, We have exempted household furnishings and one's residence - that is, such furnishings as are needed.   BH00984

And regarding the Huququ'llah, its minimum amount is one unit, meaning if any person possesses nineteen mithqals of gold or items reaching this value, after deducting the year's expenses, Huquq becomes applicable to it and its payment becomes obligatory.  BH00077

And as for what was asked about shop equipment that is necessary for work and trade - whether Huququ'llah must be paid on these or whether they fall under the rule of household furnishings - after submission before His presence, He said that the rule of household furnishings applies to them.  BH00072
