
The Blessed Beauty used to say that it is even a pity that the dead body of man should be buried under the ground.   ABU3301

Build his illumined grave in whatever manner you deem advisable so that it does not become a place of disrespect by others.   AB05874

As for what you mentioned regarding burial expenses, this matter in the Book of God pertains to the spouse if means allow, otherwise it falls to the wife's own property.  BH03000

Moses passed away and no one knows the place of his death nor his cave. Elijah passed away in a cave on Mount Carmel and no one knows his tomb. Christ's tomb was in a garbage dump until Helena found it  ABU2547

The Lord hath decreed that the dead should be interred in coffins made of crystal, of hard, resistant stone, or of wood that is both fine and durable, and that graven rings should be placed upon their fingers.  BH00001

In the Prayer for the Dead six specific passages have been sent down by God, the Revealer of Verses. Let one who is able to read recite that which hath been revealed to precede these passages; and as for him who is unable, God hath relieved him of this.  BH00001

Ye shall wash your dead if possible five times with pure water, then shroud them in five pieces of silk or cotton after placing the ring upon their finger - a gift from God to the living - that perchance ye may believe in Him Whom We shall manifest on the Day of Resurrection.  BB00020



Regarding what you wrote about the shroud, five full-length cloths have been ordained to be wrapped one over another, and in this Most Great Dispensation, a concession hath been granted to the poor, that they may use perfume and rose water in place of cedar water and camphor.   BH00991

A letter was received about a friend stating that she has cremated the body of some one died in the family. The Master said: "This is not good. Why do they stop so suddenly the wheels of evolution? The body is composed of so many elements and each element in its dissolution must return to its original constituent substance. Now cremation arrests too suddenly this process of the returning of each element to its original part. Someday this body will become flowers and adorn the field with loveliness and charm. Why should we then hinder this charming transformation? What would we gain by incarcerating the ashes this body in a glass bottle?" ABU2899

Regarding the remains of his honor the beloved Breakwell—him who hath attained to the meeting of the countenance of his Lord in His great Kingdom—must be interred in that very land, not in some other place, for to transfer the remains of the believers from one city to another city is against the text of the Book.  AB02536

But the natural order established by divine decree is that after death this body must pass through different states until, according to the relationships that exist in the world of being, it systematically mixes and combines with other beings, passes through various stages, undergoes chemical decomposition, transfers to the plant kingdom, becomes flowers and fragrant herbs, and transforms into trees of the highest paradise, acquiring a musk-like fragrance and seeking delicate colors.  AB00949

Just as the human body gradually comes into being in the beginning, similarly it must gradually decompose. This is in accordance with the true and natural order and divine law. If burning after death were better, in the original creation a system would have been established whereby the body would spontaneously ignite after death, burst into flames and turn to ashes.  AB00949

In the Bisharat, it is revealed that it is not necessary to journey for visiting the resting-place of the dead. The meaning here is that it is not permissible to journey from one country to another solely for the purpose of visiting graves. Consider: undertaking such journeys have kept many wholly occupied. Therefore, this command is general unless otherwise is stated specifically.  AB09288

Although those souls who hasten from this world of darkness to the luminous realm are sanctified from the conditions of the physical world and have no attachment to this mortal life, nevertheless the human temple is honored and respected, for this chalice was once brimming with that wine, and this garment was once worn by that graceful form. Therefore, respect for it is necessary from every direction.  AB08433

As for what you wrote about the orientation of the graves of the righteous - since at present it would cause great alarm if built according to the previous practice, it is permissible [to build them differently], for "Whichever way ye turn, there is the face of God." However, in the future when there is no impediment, they must certainly be built and constructed facing the Qiblih of the people of Baha.   AB03364

Regarding the efforts of the living for the dead in preparing, embalming, shrouding and burying them - this too is clear evidence for protecting the living from germs that spread from the dead, but in a way that shows respect and consideration, not degradation, destruction and ruin. The handmaiden of God Barney asked about the wisdom of burial in the earth, given that cremation has a swifter effect in dispersing bodies and preventing decay of the dead.  AB05890

But regarding the announcement of the Zoroastrians that whoever is not steadfast in the religion of their forefathers is barred from the burial ground - be as accommodating as you can about this, because if you don't show accommodation, separation will occur and teaching will become difficult. If such a case occurs and they don't allow burial in the burial ground and show strong resistance, then bury [the deceased] in the cemetery that will soon be completed.  AB02992

My wish for you all is this: if something should happen to me, if my time comes, bury me between Haifa and Akka in the sands there, for it is the pathway of the loved ones and pilgrims. Build nothing over it. Place neither stone nor tree over it, so that even the location remains unknown. If anything else is done, my spirit will be troubled. If I am crucified somewhere, retrieve my body and bury it in this same place so that I may be on the pathway of the loved ones.   ABU0463

As for the burial of the dead, it would be better if for now it remained as before, for we must not act in such a way as to cause complete separation between friends and strangers, as separation is an obstacle to teaching. When the time comes that the execution of the laws will in no way cause hearts to be troubled and the Cause of God is openly proclaimed, then in Turkistan they should face from east toward west inclined to the north, and bury the dead with head toward the Qiblih and feet toward the north.   AB00178


The arrangement of all cemeteries should be in this manner: four wide paths like the shape of a cross in the center, the width of each path being at minimum two yards, and in the center of the four paths a water fountain should be built. In this way the width of the land is divided into four sections. Each section should be divided in the same way in the shape of a cross, and each grave should have flower beds one yard wide on all sides - right, left, above and below - meaning the graves should not be connected to each other.  AB11864

The best method is to bury the body. This body has grown into its present form by the slow process of evolution and it must be disintegrated by the same process. This is the law of nature and it is the Universal law of God. If the body is cremated in the crematory, the elements making up the composition of the body are instantaneously disintegrated and are deprived of the slow process of dissolution. Therefore, according to the law of nature and God the physical body must disintegrate slowly and after death crumble into dust, because its origin is of dust.   ABU2001

As for the matter of the tower of silence, although there is no clear sacred text about it and the permissibility or impermissibility of this matter is referred to the House of Justice - this servant's duty is to explain the clear sacred texts, but everything beyond what is explicitly in the Book is referred to the House of Justice - whenever it is established they will make a decision about this. However, if multiple bodies are placed at once, it is somewhat distant from cleanliness. The soil needs to absorb the moisture of the body. In this case, if soil is poured on the coffin, the moisture of the body will dissipate more quickly.  AB01806

In short, the composition and decomposition, the gathering and scattering and journeying of all creatures must proceed according to the natural order, divine rule, and the most great law of God, so that no marring nor impairment may affect the essential relationships which arise out of the inner realities of created things. This is why, according to the law of God, we are bidden to bury the dead....  Thus the ancient Egyptians mummified the body that it might remain intact to the end of time, their belief being that the longer the dead endured, the nearer they would draw to the mercy of their gods. Yet the Hindus of India cremate the body without any concern, and indeed the burning is a solace to their hearts. This lack of concern, however, is fortuitous: it deriveth from religious beliefs and is not a natural thing. For they suppose that the more rapidly the body is destroyed, the nearer it will come to divine compassion. This is the opposite of what the ancient Egyptians believed. The Hindus are even persuaded that, as soon as the body is with great rapidity disintegrated, forgiveness will be assured, and the dead will be blessed forevermore. It is this belief which reconcileth them to the cremation.  AB00273

the graves of the divine friends should outwardly appear like palaces...Each grave should be in a flower garden. And if beautiful trees were planted around the cemetery and around the fountain, that would also be desirable.  AB11864
