Nothing remains stationary.  ABU2506

Nothing remains the same way forever.   ABU3158

All the created phenomena are subject to the law of change and transmutation. Youth is followed by old age; a tender plant becomes an old, decrepit tree; dynasties are born, wax strong, reach to the zenith of glory and then totter to the ground. Likewise, every one of the world religions has been the Cause of progress and advancement in its own time, but now they have become like old, very old trees. They do not yield any more luscious fruits. Some people persist in the unscientific belief that these very old trees will again become young, push forth leaves, blossoms and fruits. This is impossible.  ABU2675

Praise be to God Who hath made this world a manifest book and a mighty volume, and hath inscribed therein that which ordaineth its change and passing away, its turmoil and transformation and extinction. Blessed are they whom its conditions and manifestations and colors and ornaments and bounties have not prevented. BH02665

Change and transformation are essential to it, for if there were no change and transformation, the composition and development of things would not occur. And since change, transformation, decomposition and composition are necessary, opposites appear  ABU1436


Thus it may be known that the nature of things remains always the same - that inherent qualities can never be lost. The body of man always remains dust of the earth, returning on its dissolution to the elements from which it was compounded. Therefore it will ever be the function of the visible world to reflect the perfections of God. This, then, is the purpose of the succession of forms; and as the perfections of God are infinite, the succession of forms must be infinite also.  ABU1139

Phenomena undergo change and transformation   ABU3435

All things are subject to change and transformation, to ascent and decline, like the human body.   ABU0912

He it is Who transmuteth hardship into ease, and poverty into wealth, and abasement into glory, and darkness into light.  BH10308

It has ultimate degrees and transformations. Even this flower is never completely annihilated. The ultimate is that this form breaks down, not that it becomes totally nonexistent.   ABU2254

This body has grown into its present form by the slow process of evolution and it must be disintegrated by the same process. This is the law of nature and it is the Universal law of God.   ABU2001

Motion and change are its two fixed rules. These two laws are inseparable from each other. All the contingent beings, from the amoeba to the elephants are the creatures of motion and change.   ABU0441

change and transformation are essential requirements of contingent existence. It is impossible for change not to occur. Inevitably after every prosperity comes ruin, and after every sun comes a longest night.  ABU0633

These defects have not come from the Source; rather, the essential properties of the world of matter which are change and transformation cause the training of all things and the manifestation of perfections of realities and spirits.  ABU2463

The specificity and essentiality of things are permanent and changeless; only within the limits of a particular species do progress and decline occur...the human species and human nature have been and will forever remain preserved and protected.  AB02206

As an example of matter we may take the metal, iron. Its nature is such that when heated it may become hot, red, and fluid. But though it continue a thousand years in the fire, its nature will not be changed into that of fire; its nature as iron will still remain.  ABU1139

All contingent-world beings have to undergo changes; the only thing which is unchangeable is the identity of God. The angel is one of the created beings of God and must undergo changes. Were these beings not to change, they would possess the unity or attributes of God.   ABU1238

Of course the progress of one fundamental law must not be lost sight of and that is this: the complete intellectual freedom and social and civic equality of women in Oriental countries must come about by intelligent, normal evolution and not haphazard, abnormal revolution.  ABU0870

The other kind is the result of the exigencies of the contingent world, of consummate divine law, and of universal relationships, and is that which is bound to happen, as, for instance, changes, alterations, life and death. It is impossible that a tree should not wither or that life should not end in death.  ABU2845

"The body is composed of so many elements and each element in its dissolution must return to its original constituent substance. Now cremation arrests too suddenly this process of the returning of each element to its original part. Someday this body will become flowers and adorn the field with loveliness and charm."   ABU2899

Physical bodies are transferred past one barrier after another, from one life to another, and all things are subject to transformation and change, save only the essence of existence itself -- since it is constant and immutable, and upon it is founded the life of every species and kind, of every contingent reality throughout the whole of creation.  AB01624

Through the rising of the Sun of Muhammad's Beauty from that region and Arabian clime, it became a brilliant dawning-place and manifest horizon. A piece of earth became supreme paradise, the pride of rose gardens and meadows, and the envy of tulip fields filled with cypress and jasmine. Its soil became fragrant and its thorns transformed into flowers and sweet basil of the Garden of Ridvan.  AB00320

Know that nothing that exists remains in a state of repose-that is, all things are in motion. They are either growing or declining, either coming from non-existence into existence or passing from existence into non-existence. This is called essential or natural motion, and it can in no wise be dissociated from created things, for it is one of their essential requirements, just as it is an essential requirement of fire to burn.   AB01145

It is evident that each material organism is an aggregate expression of single and simple elements, and a given cellular element or atom has its coursings or journeyings through various and myriad stages of life...They have been subject to transference from one condition of life to another, passing through various forms and phases, exercising in each existence special functions. Their journeyings through material phenomena are continuous.   ABU0008

The more microscopic animals exist in the soil, the better the plants will grow. And when the plant has grown, it is consumed by the animal, is incorporated in its body, and is endowed with a new existence. Thus it progresses further and assumes a higher reality than that which it initially possessed. This indeed is the means of progress and renewal from the mineral to the vegetable, from the vegetable to the animal, and from the animal to the human world.  AB01283

The law of change works mighty transformation in all the Kingdoms of life. When we were exiled to Acca I was at the prime of my life. I saw then many people who were in the height of youth, power and virility. Now all of them are stricken with old age, their forces are disintegrated, their backs are bent, their faces wrinkled and their strength gone. Many of those whom I have known are dead and their voices are heard no more. Their stars are set, their breezes hushed, and their flowers withered.   ABU1455


The absence of upheaval and the absence of change and transformation are essential requirements of the Ancient, not of that which is originated.   AB02776
