
When at last union becomes impossible of realization and positively unattainable, then divorce is permitted.   AB03299

And regarding divorce, after the completion of the waiting period, divorce is effected, but witnesses are required at the beginning and end who can testify when needed.   BH00464

The waiting period for women after absolute divorce applies whether due to ordinary circumstances or painful events, but after proof of improper conduct by the wife, her consent has no effect.   AB03541

Divorce is forbidden according to the explicit text of the Testament, but there is no conclusive text in it prohibiting the plurality of wives. Monogomy came into practice after his holiness Christ.  AB03180

When there exists incompatibility of temper and complete antipathy between the man and wife, then divorce is permitted. For if they live together under such stifling conditions it is worse than hell   ABU2489

Regarding what you wrote about your wife - that in your absence one of the companions pronounced divorce, meaning he implemented its ruling - this matter is very far from divine justice and contrary to the ruling of the Book.   BH06832

As to the matter of thy wife, if it is as thou hast written, separation and divorce are permissible under the Law of God, and this is after one year of separation. When the impossibility of maintaining the marriage is established and one year of separation has elapsed without reconciliation being achieved, the divorce becomes final.  AB09888

Regarding the question of divorce, it is permitted when lack of harmony is established in any way and there exists severe aversion between husband and wife such that harmony becomes impossible. After that they separate and then wait for a complete year. If harmony is still not achieved during this period, they are permitted to separate permanently.  AB12196

Question: If, during the year of patience, if the fragrance of love emerges and then aversion occurs, and throughout the year there is alternation between aversion and inclination, and the year ends in a state of aversion, does separation occur or not? Answer: In any case, whenever aversion occurs, the year of patience begins from that day and must complete its course.  BH00069

"As regards divorce, Baha'o'llah says that if a husband and wife cannot agree, there should be a preliminary separation of one year. If at the end of a year there is no reconciliation, then divorce is permissible. Because both sides would be in torment, separation is better. In the Bahai marriage the husband and wife must be in the utmost of happiness together."  ABU0697

Marriage and divorce must be carried out with the knowledge of the government or through those in authority, otherwise difficulties will arise. In any case, marriage and divorce must be administered under an effective center, so that should either party seek to undermine them, they would be powerless to do so, but rather be compelled to obey, and upon thee be the Most Glorious Glory.  AB11152

As for the prohibition of divorce after the ninth time, verily God causes all things to proceed according to their essential nature. The decree is true, and divorce occurs through turning away from the station of love. This is forgiven in the permissibility of eight, indicating the eight gates of Paradise. When the ninth house is reached, it becomes forbidden to him and he can never exit.   BB00249

"Although divorce is allowable, yet it is hated and blamable by God. Divorce is allowable, and can take place under such circumstances as these which are here mentioned: That is, if there is nothing else to be done in the matter, if both sides hate one another, and if they are in perpetual troubles. Now if such is the case with you both, perform the divorce. But after being divorced, you ought to wait for one year until it becomes firm"  AB06198

Notwithstanding this weighty consideration when no harmony and accord is obtained between two souls and that they loathe and abhor each others associations and both sides feel continual torment and anguish, unquestionably separation from each other is better, because both are suffering and union is impossible. But they must take hold of this last means when all other resources of reconciliation are exhausted; perchance union may appear again and the two souls be reunited permanently and peacefully.   AB03299

Regarding divorce, a person can fully implement whatever accords with their view. The most important thing is not to leave the wife without support for one year, and this is like the waiting period. At most, previously the obligation for maintenance was a few months, and now it is one year. However if both parties are complete and circumstances arise that cause coolness between them, they should not hasten to complete separation but wait one year - perhaps those circumstances will pass and affection will be regained.  AB00494

If there be a case of difference between husband and wife, where it is entirely impossible to recreate their love, where it is not possible for them to live any longer with one another, then both should go to the House of Justice and together, in perfect agreement, lay their case before it. And after this they should still wait a year, living apart but not permanently divorced, and their friends should give them good advice meanwhile. If, after one year, there is no possibility of becoming reunited, and no one is able to influence them, then this is the natural divorce.   ABU2260

Formerly in Persia divorce was very easily obtained. Among the people of the past Dispensation a trifling matter would cause divorce. However, as the light of the Kingdom shone forth, souls were quickened by the spirit of Baha'u'llah, then they totally eschewed divorce. In Persia now divorce doth not take place among the friends, unless a compelling reason existeth which makes harmony impossible. Under such rare circumstances some cases of divorce take place. Now the friends in America must live and conduct themselves in this way. They must strictly refrain from divorce unless something ariseth which compelleth them to separate because of their aversion for each other, in that case with the knowledge of the Spiritual Assembly they may decide to separate. They must then be patient and wait one complete year. If during this year, harmony is not re-established between them, then their divorce may be realized.  AB02870

When the husband intends separation, he must announce it so that some souls become aware of this matter. Then he may seek separation for a period of one year. If during this time aversion is not transformed into harmony - that is, if affection is not regained - divorce takes place and this too must be announced, that the period has ended and therefore the wife is free. If she chooses another husband she is at liberty to do so. However, if during this year affection and reunion are regained, it is like before and the past period has no effect, unless he again intends divorce. After the passing of one year from the separation, the waiting period of nine months is not necessary - the one year is sufficient. And when an unseemly act is proven against the wife, he should divorce her and the one-year waiting period is not necessary - the separation is definitive and the very proof of the unseemly act constitutes divorce.  AB12807

As for the question of equal rights between men and women in the matter of divorce that you had written about: Marriage and wedlock are contingent upon the consent of both parties, but separation and divorce are dependent upon the will of the husband alone. The wife alone does not have such authority to seek separation and obtain divorce after one year. This is the decree of God. However, after the wife's aversion, the husband's obstinacy is quite inappropriate and contrary to human nobility. Surely a divine person would not be content to remain bound in attachment to an unconscious wife in a state of aversion. As soon as he senses aversion, he would surely let her go and grant separation and divorce. AB00694

