
Blessed are they who have observed the fast during its appointed month   AB11916

Concerning fasting while traveling and the limit of travel, this question was asked: Let the limits of travel and traveler be explained - to what distance the term travel applies, and if during the journey one stays in a place for several days what is one's obligation, and on the day when a traveler intends to travel, for instance if one becomes a traveler at noon or after noon, what is one's obligation from morning until noon? The limits of travel have been fixed at nine hours in the Book of God - that is, from the place of departure to the intended destination should be nine hours, then the law of fasting is lifted.  BH00057

These higher reasons of fasting are now completely forgotten. It has become only a habit; a custom, handed down from Ancestors and forefathers. In reality they are not fasting; they are keeping up a dead institution. Fasting is like a lamp. What is a lamp for? It is a chimney for the protection of the light. If there is no light in the glass; what use is there for it? Now these people are constantly cleaning the glass and are not thinking of the light.   ABU0730

The month of fasting has advanced with its overwhelming armies and charging forces, and all parties are routed.  AB02470

Thou hast commanded all who have turned to Thee to fast out of love for Thy Beauty.   BH03505

On this day, which is the first day of the blessed Ramadan, the Wronged One is fasting.  BH03502

A traveler must not abstain except after My permission. Say: Eat and drink in enjoyment.   BH04923

These are, O my Lord, the days in which Thou hast bidden Thy servants to observe the fast. Blessed is he that observeth the fast wholly for Thy sake and with absolute detachment from all things except Thee. Assist me and assist them, O my Lord, to obey Thee and to keep Thy precepts.  BH07657

The blessed Ramadan draweth nigh, and the people of Baha in this prison shall fast.  BH00500

There are two kinds of fast: material and spiritual. The material fast consists in abstaining from food and drink, that is, refraining from satisfying the physical appetites. But the true and spiritual fast is for man to forsake covetous desires, heedlessness, and evil and animalistic attributes. The material fast is therefore a symbol of that spiritual fast. It is like saying: "O Divine Providence! As I am abstaining from bodily desires and from all occupation with food and drink, even so purify and sanctify my heart from the love of anyone save Thyself, and shield and protect my soul from corrupt inclinations and satanic qualities, that my spirit may commune with the breaths of holiness and fast from the mention of all else besides Thee."   AB00059


This Wronged One and those who accept Him in this land hold fast to the strong cord of fasting   BH03761

Be firm in the worship of God, fasting, praying, imploring and invoking unto thy God, the Generous  AB06434

We beseech the Lord of existence to aid them to observe the fast and prayer in this blessed month.   BH02909

We have observed the Fast in conformity with Thy bidding and break it now through Thy love and Thy good-pleasure.  BH10581

This night is among the nights of the blessed month of Ramadan. Wisdom has necessitated that We observe the fast.   BH04671

"Then he spoke about fasting and how it is necessary for the rich to think of the poor during the month of Ramadan."  ABU3338

He hath hastened unto Thy good-pleasure and observed the fast out of love for Thee and in conformity with Thy command.   BH11146

There is many a divine wisdom in fasting. Among them is this: that, in the days when He Who is the Dayspring of the Sun of Truth engages, through divine inspiration, in revealing the verses of God, in establishing His religion, and in setting forth His teachings, He is so enraptured and enkindled as to find no time for food or drink. For example, when Moses went up to Mount Sinai to establish the religion of God, He fasted for forty days; and fasting was therefore enjoined upon the Israelites to awaken and admonish them. Likewise Christ, at the beginning of the foundation of His divine religion, the establishment of His teachings, and the formulation of His admonitions, disregarded for forty days all physical necessities and refrained from food and drink. The Apostles and early Christian believers also fasted, but this fast was changed by the Church Councils to abstinence from certain foods. Similarly, the Qur'an was revealed during the month of Ramadan and therefore the fast was enjoined during that period. In the same way, in the beginning of His manifestation, the Bab would be so overcome with emotion at the revelation of the divine verses that for days He would confine himself to drinking tea. Likewise, in the days when He was instituting the divine teachings, and when the divine verses would be sent down continuously, Baha'u'llah would be so overwhelmed with the intensity of their influence and the emotions surging within His heart that He would take but little food.... The second wisdom is that fasting is conducive to spiritual awareness. One's heart grows more tender, one's spirituality is increased, and as a result one's thoughts become purely focused on the remembrance of God. Such awareness and awakening leads inexorably to spiritual progress.  The third wisdom is this. There are two kinds of fast: material and spiritual. The material fast consists in abstaining from food and drink, that is, refraining from satisfying the physical appetites. But the true and spiritual fast is for man to forsake covetous desires, heedlessness, and evil and animalistic attributes. The material fast is therefore a symbol of that spiritual fast. It is like saying: "O Divine Providence! As I am abstaining from bodily desires and from all occupation with food and drink, even so purify and sanctify my heart from the love of anyone save Thyself, and shield and protect my soul from corrupt inclinations and satanic qualities, that my spirit may commune with the breaths of holiness and fast from the mention of all else besides Thee." AB03269

The days of fasting have arrived wherein those servants who circle round Thy throne and have attained Thy presence have fasted.   BH10127

O people of the  world!  We have enjoined upon you fasting during a  brief period, and at its close have designated for you  Naw-Ruz as a feast.  Thus hath the Day-Star of  Utterance shone forth above the horizon of the Book as  decreed by Him Who is the Lord of the beginning and  the end.  Let the days in excess of the months be placed  before the month of fasting.  We have ordained that  these, amid all nights and days, shall be the manifestations  of the letter Ha, and thus they have not been  bounded by the limits of the year and its months.  It  behoveth the people of Baha, throughout these days, to  provide good cheer for themselves, their kindred and,  beyond them, the poor and needy, and with joy and  exultation to hail and glorify their Lord, to sing His  praise and magnify His Name; and when they end --these days of giving that precede the season of  restraint--let them enter upon the Fast.  Thus hath it  been ordained by Him Who is the Lord of all mankind.   The traveller, the ailing, those who are with child or  giving suck, are not bound by the Fast; they have been  exempted by God as a token of His grace.  He, verily, is  the Almighty, the Most Generous.  These are the ordinances of God that have been set  down in the Books and Tablets by His Most Exalted  Pen.  Hold ye fast unto His statutes and commandments,  and be not of those who, following their idle  fancies and vain imaginings, have clung to the  standards fixed by their own selves, and cast behind  their backs the standards laid down by God.  Abstain  from food and drink from sunrise to sundown, and  beware lest desire deprive you of this grace that is  appointed in the Book.    BH00001

Be not neglectful of obligatory prayer and fasting. He who faileth to observe them hath not been nor will ever be acceptable in the sight of God.  BH11490

Be constant in prayer and mindful in fasting. Day and night occupy yourselves with devotion, supplication and prayer, especially at the designated time.   AB01700

The law of the Fast is ordained for those who are sound and healthy; as to those who are ill or debilitated, this law hath never been nor is now applicable.  BH01954

We have fasted by His command and broken our fast by His leave, and He has completed for us the two flowing bounties - the bounty of fasting and the table of breaking fast.  BH02249

And We have ordained obligatory prayer and fasting so that all may by these means draw nigh unto God, the Most Powerful, the Well-Beloved. We have written down these two laws and expounded every irrevocable decree. We have forbidden men from following whatsoever might cause them to stray from the Truth, and have commanded them to observe that which will draw them nearer unto Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Loving. BH05113

Verily I say, fasting and prayer have a great station before God, but their excellence exists in time of health, and when weakness comes, observance thereof is not permitted.  BH01954

These are the days whereon Thou hast enjoined Thy chosen ones, Thy loved ones and Thy servants to observe the Fast, which Thou hast made a light unto the people of Thy kingdom  BH01503

These are the days of the Fast. Blessed is the one who through the heat generated by the Fast increaseth his love, and who, with joy and radiance, ariseth to perform worthy deeds.  BH02927

These are the days of fasting, formerly designated as the Month of God. We beseech the True One to aid all to observe that which hath been revealed in the Book by the Most Exalted Pen.   BH00855

The nineteen-day fast is a duty to be observed by all. All should abstain from eating and drinking from sunrise to sunset. This fast is conducive to the spiritual development of the individual.  AB05753

These are the days of farewell, and grief hath seized the people of God, for the Fast, which was the cause of refinement and the means of reformation and spirituality of souls, hath come to an end.  BH08745

God hath prescribed fasting for you during nineteen days, as ordained in the Bayan, that ye might not transgress. Fear ye God and observe ye the fast in the Most Great Month of God, then believe in God and His signs.  BB00056

All praise be unto God, Who hath revealed the law of obligatory prayer as a reminder to His servants, and enjoined on them the Fast that those possessed of means may become apprised of the woes and sufferings of the destitute.  BH11862

And among these is the law of fasting which hath dawned forth from the horizon of Thy Will and descended from the heaven of Thy Purpose, and which Thou didst ordain for them that have turned unto the court of Thy manifestation   BH04530

Fast ye for the sake of your Lord, the Mighty, the Most High. Restrain yourselves from sunrise to sunset. It is not for anyone to exceed the limits laid down by God and His law, nor should anyone follow his own idle imaginings.   BH06563

O Lord! This is a day wherein I behold that the very essence of fasting hath fasted out of longing for Thy Cause, having tasted the sweetness of Thy call which was raised from Thy most exalted station and Thy most resplendent horizon   BH02411

Prayer and fasting are among the greatest obligations of this holy Dispensation. If anyone interprets them away or is negligent, it is absolutely necessary to avoid such souls. Otherwise, a great weakness will result in the religion of God   AB02900

In this blessed month the friends in this land have attained to the honor of true fasting, inasmuch as they have, for the sake of God, performed that which was enjoined upon them. They fast during the day and arise for prayer during the night.   BH04111

Some people lay stress on fasting. They affirm that in augmenting the weakness of the body they develop a spiritual sensibility and thus they think to approach God. Weakening one's self physically does not necessarily contribute to spiritual progress.  ABU1585

Difficulty is not a preventative. But if fasting gives rise to inharmony it is injurious. If there be a preventative, it should not be kept. As far as one possibly can, yes; but if there be any preventative at any time, no. But after sunrise one cannot eat.  ABU0786

If one arrives during the fasting month at a place where one will stay for one Bayanic month, one should break the fast for three days, then fast the remaining days. If one returns to one's permanent residence, one should begin fasting from the first day of arrival.  BH00069

The days which Thou hast named the Ayyam-i-Ha (the Days of Ha, Intercalary Days) in Thy Book have begun, O Thou Who art the King of names, and the fast which Thy most exalted Pen hath enjoined unto all who are in the kingdom of Thy creation to observe is approaching.  BH05849

Praise be to God! Although these days are blessed days when fasting is among the binding divine ordinances, and weakness and lassitude are human traits, yet His grace hath bestowed bounties and favors. His Word is not weakened by fasting, nor doth abstinence prevent His work.   BH00935

Cling firmly to obligatory prayer and fasting. Verily, the religion of God is like unto heaven; fasting is its sun, and obligatory prayer is its moon. In truth, they are the pillars of religion whereby the righteous are distinguished from those who transgress His commandments.   BH07396

Therefore, O ye beloved of God! Now the time has come that in order to show thankfulness for this Gift, ye may arise to perform that which is incumbent upon you, and to observe the Laws of the Religion of God... keep the fast in the month of fasting and be awake during its nights  AB08463

He, verily, is the One Who commandeth, the All-Knowing. They who circle round the Throne, and they who believed in Him when He was established upon His mighty throne, have observed the Fast. Blessed are they who follow the commandments of God - they, verily, are in an exalted station.  BH11810

We, verily, have commanded all to observe the Fast in these days as a bounty on Our part, but the people remain unaware, except for those who have attained unto the purpose of God as revealed in His laws and have comprehended His wisdom that pervadeth all things visible and invisible.  BH11793

Since Thou hast adorned them, O my Lord, with the ornament of the fast prescribed by Thee, do Thou adorn them also with the ornament of Thine acceptance, through Thy grace and bountiful favor. For the doings of men are all dependent upon Thy good-pleasure, and are conditioned by Thy behest.  BH03908

And among Thy sincere and acknowledging servants I have explained the ruling about what emerges from the chest to the mouth during fasting - that he should expel it from his mouth, and it is not valid if he was deliberate in his action. Thou forgiveth those who cannot control themselves  BB00102

All the days have been honoured, O my God, by the arrival of the days upon which Thou hast conferred the name of Ha, each of which Thou hast made a herald and a messenger announcing unto the people the advent of the days on which Thou didst enjoin Thy creation and Thy people to observe the Fast. Thus may every soul prepare himself to behold these days and appoint a place for them in his heart and purify it by Thy Name, the Lord, for their appearance. BH01151

These are, O my God, the days whereon Thou didst enjoin Thy servants to observe the fast. With it Thou didst adorn the preamble of the Book of Thy Laws revealed unto Thy creatures, and didst deck forth the Repositories of Thy commandments in the sight of all who are in Thy heaven and all who are on Thy earth.  BH01888

Thou hast commanded that Thy servants and Thy people should fast therein and seek thereby to draw nearer unto Thee. The days and months of the year have culminated with the Fast, even as the first month began with Thy Name, Baha, that all might testify that Thou art the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden  BH00437

Although fasting is outwardly difficult and toilsome, inwardly it is a blessing and comfort. Refinement and training depend upon spiritual exercises - such spiritual exercises as are in accordance with the Book of God and are permitted by religious law, not those wherewith certain deluded ones have afflicted the people.   BH02128

These are the days whereon Thou hast bidden all men to observe the Fast, that through it they may purify their souls and rid themselves of all attachment to any one but Thee, and that out of their hearts may ascend that which will be worthy of the court of Thy majesty and may well beseem the seat of the revelation of Thy oneness.   BH00778

Today is the last day of the month of Ramadan, and a number of people have attained to deeds for the sake of God. For fasting there are stations and ranks, and effects and fruits beyond counting. Blessed are they who have attained. This deed is obligatory in prison, a wisdom from Our presence, and I am the Commander, the All-Wise.  BH00350

"Fasting is a symbol. Fasting signifies abstinence from lust. Physical fasting is a symbol of that abstinence, and is a reminder; that is, just a person abstains from physical appetites, he is to abstain from self-appetites and self-desires. But mere abstention from food has no effect on the spirit. It is a mere symbol, a reminder. Otherwise, it is of no importance."  ABU1885

These are the days of fasting, when the dawning-place of the manifestations of the grace of the Lord of all beings decreases the carnal and increases the spiritual. It transforms base desire into guidance and cruelty into faithfulness. For the training of the soul it is the most potent remedy and the greatest medicine. Within it are concealed wisdoms and hidden benefits.  BH09803

QUESTION: Some of the friends in America say that the Fast is not to be observed now but in the future.  'ABDUL-BAHA: In places where it will be the cause of trouble, such as in Bokhara or Afghanistan, or in some of the towns in Persia, the Fast cannot be kept. In these places if the friends fast it will be the cause of trouble, people will rise against them. But in those places where there is safety and security it should be kept. I fasted sixty years-the first one who fasted was I.  ABU0786

QUESTION: In a family where it is difficult, should one attempt to keep the Fast?  'ABDUL-BAHA: Difficulty is not a preventative. But if fasting gives rise to inharmony it is injurious.  ABU0786

QUESTION: If it is not possible to take breakfast before sunrise, should one keep the Fast the best one can?  'ABDUL-BAHA: If there be a preventative, it should not be kept. As far as one possibly can, yes; but if there be any preventative at any time, no. But after sunrise one cannot eat. I used to Fast from sunset to sunset. Early morning eating was difficult for me, therefore when I ate in the evening I took nothing else until the following evening.  ABU0786

QUESTION: If one's health does not seem to permit of fasting should one keep the Fast?  'ABDUL-BAHA: In that case the doctor must decide. The object is not this, that not eating is not forbidden; but eating is forbidden. This is the object: not eating is not forbidden, but eating is forbidden.  ABU0786

QUESTION: When it is difficult or impossible to begin at sunrise is it possible to keep the Fast as much as one can?  'ABDUL-BAHA: No. After the sunrise nothing should taken unless the doctor says that fasting would be injurious (to one's health). In that case, one can eat at any time one wishes. But the whole time (of fasting) is only twelve hours-this is nothing.  ABU0786

QUESTION: Some of the friends think the life is so strenuous in America that it is not possible to work there and keep the Fast.  'ABDUL-BAHA: In the Torah the command for fasting is from sunset to sunset for three days. For three days and three nights they, the Jews, take nothing. This is not obligatory.... But now, in this Revelation, it is for only twelve hours-very little.  ABU0786

QUESTION: Should those men keep the Fast who are employed in mines, steel mills, etc., where it seems necessary to eat often to keep up their energy? 'ABDUL-BAHA: This depends upon the advice of an expert doctor. If the doctor says that fasting would be injurious to the health of such people they should not fast. ABU0786




Observe thou the paths of fasting as ordained by thy Lord: from the first day of obligation in each month, fast for ten days when thou hast reached thirty years of age. When thou hast attained this station, fast half the month until thy survival reaches forty years. When thou hast attained this age, fast three days each month - the twenty-fifth day and the middle fourth day - until thou hast reached fifty years.  BB00019


Concerning fasting, as you wrote, this is a matter of great importance, so observe it with the utmost diligence. It is among the very foundations of God's Law and a pillar of God's religion. Assuredly must fasting be given the utmost importance. By the Ancient Beauty, were trees and stones and clay to hear this address and follow what they are commanded out of love for Thy Self, they would surely observe an eternal fast.  AB04561

In the Prayer of Fasting We have revealed: "Should Thy Will decree that out of Thy mouth these words proceed and be addressed unto them, 'Observe, for My Beauty's sake, the fast, O people, and set no limit to its duration,' I swear by the majesty of Thy glory, that every one of them will faithfully observe it, will abstain from whatsoever will violate Thy law, and will continue to do so until they yield up their souls unto Thee."   BH01850


As to what you wrote concerning fasting, in this blessed city new utterances have issued forth from the Master's tongue. In three Tablets He has made mention of fasting and those who fast, and offered congratulations. In truth, fasting is the supreme remedy for the illness of self and passion, and the greatest healing. It draws out excessive moisture and brings about equilibrium. And when equilibrium is achieved, the self is freed from idle talk and becomes bound to the Will of God.  BH11676

Further, this servant knows not what to submit and what to mention - whether to complain about the fast or express satisfaction. If we say we were and are satisfied with it, it is observed to have become a barrier and cause of prevention, and the reason for separation and remoteness which has ever been detested. And if we mention anything less than good, this would be counted among real transgressions, for it has been and remains among the greatest bounties with God, the Lord of Names.   BH02371

These days are the days of Baha'i fasting but the Blessed Perfection has commanded us not to keep it in Turkey, so instead of this we keep the fast of Ramazan. For the present this is in accord with wisdom. As we keep the latter, the former is left aside... My highest longing is to keep this fast, but wisdom must be considered. However in other parts of the world the believers should keep the Baha'i fasting. The time will also come for his country. Through this fast great spirituality is obtained and joy and fragrance realized.   ABU0632

In the Divine Religions, fasting is a cardinal law. Fasting is conducive to the mindfulness and heedfulness of man. its ulterior wisdom is the sanctification of the soul from carnal and physical appetites. Fasting energizes and sharpens the spiritual consciousness and cleanses the hearts from the worldly desires. They become sensitized and etherealized, conscious of the higher forces and feeling the eternal vibrations of the spirit. Fasting makes one more observant of the laws of God, and grants unto him severance and attraction.   ABU0730

Furthermore, regarding what was asked about the limit of travel for those who fast - the limit has been set at nine hours. If a traveler arrives in a place and intends to stay, it is permissible to fast for three days, but not before; thereafter he may fast. If he arrives in his hometown and it is during the days of fasting, he must fast. If a traveler has been traveling during the days of fasting, he need not make up for what he missed - that is, he need not fast in compensation. God hath pardoned him as a bounty from His presence.   BH00368

O thou who art present! In the days when fasting was revealed, the polytheists of Hijaz and Yathrib rejected the decree of God and with utmost oppression rose up to refuse the divine commandments. But the power and sovereignty of God prevailed, and He established what He purposed through His Will. God doth blot out or confirm whatever He pleaseth, and with Him is the Mother Book. We beseech God to enable His people to observe the most great Fast and the most exalted Fast, which is to protect one's eye from beholding whatever is forbidden and to withhold one's self from food, drink and whatever is not of Him.  BH11856

The subject of the 19 day Fast was spoken of; this is the fast from March 2nd to the 20th of March. Mrs. Frankland said it seemed to her as though Abdul-Baha laughed down his sleeve at them all the time they talked about this subject, as He thinks so little of fasting while we make so much of it. Some one asked should one fast when it was so inconvenient to do so, that is, get up early before probably the rest of the family were around, and Abdul-Baha said 'what is a little inconvenience?' He said ALL SHOULD FAST. When told that it had been said that 45 was the age limit, He smiled at them and said there was no limit and when pushed for an answer said 70 years was the limit. He said nothing should pass the lips from sunrise to sundown.  ABU1530

O people of the world! We have enjoined upon you fasting during a brief period, and at its close have designated for you Naw-Ruz as a feast. Let the days in excess of the months be placed before the month of fasting. We have ordained that these, amid all nights and days, shall be the manifestations of the letter Ha, and thus they have not been bounded by the limits of the year and its months. It behoveth the people of Baha, throughout these days, to provide good cheer for themselves, their kindred and, beyond them, the poor and needy, and with joy and exultation to hail and glorify their Lord, to sing His praise and magnify His Name; and when they end--these days of giving that precede the season of restraint--let them enter upon the Fast. Thus hath it been ordained by Him Who is the Lord of all mankind. The traveller, the ailing, those who are with child or giving suck, are not bound by the Fast; they have been exempted by God as a token of His grace.  BH00001

The law of fasting hath been revealed by God in His Most Holy Book. There is no doubt that it hath been sent down from One Who is All-Knowing, All-Wise. The laws of fasting and prayer as revealed have not been changed, but wisdom is necessary. Hitherto, most have acted in accordance with the laws of the Qur'an. Were something entirely different to suddenly appear before the people, great discord would arise and none would draw nigh to hear the Word of God. In any case, divine forgiveness hath ever encompassed and continueth to encompass your honour, but others must hold fast to wisdom and cling to its hem. This utterance is a mercy unto the friends and a bounty unto the party of God, lest the clamour of every ignorant one and every dissembling hypocrite be raised....  O Ahmad! Upon thee be My glory! The mention of fasting and prayer is renewed, that it may become clear and evident that the fast of the Bayan is acceptable before the All-Merciful and its ordinance hath been revealed in the Most Holy Book. The ordinance of fasting was formerly specific to the servants in this land, for its abandonment caused commotion. Today they must hold fast unto that which accordeth with wisdom.   BH00319

Concerning what you wrote about the Fast - the Fast remains as it was, that is, the Fast of the Bayan, as explicitly mentioned in the Kitab-i-Aqdas. As for the obligatory prayer, it hath been revealed in such wise that should one recite it but once with a detached heart, he would surely find himself detached from the world. However, for reasons of wisdom it remaineth concealed for now and no command hath been given to observe it. Regarding what they have heard about the Fast of Ramadan in this land - since some of the friends acted unwisely and the heedless and antagonists became aware of it, therefore, as a matter of wisdom, the command was sent down from the heaven of the Ancient One to observe the Fast of Ramadan, lest the clamor of the heedless be raised. In all circumstances wisdom must be observed, even as the True One Himself, exalted be His glory, would attend the mosque in Iraq and likewise visit Kazimayn before the Cause was proclaimed. Prior to the proclamation of the Cause, it is necessary to hold fast to that which draweth people near, for were people to become fully informed and aware, a greater separation would occur and none would then draw nigh to hear the Word of God and hold fast to the straight path.  BH00170
