O questioner! Act not before knowledge, and seek not from other than the source. For everything a cause hath been ordained, and for every matter an outlet. If thou desirest it, be not heedless thereof. Enter every house through its door. Thus was it revealed aforetime and now in this perspicuous Tablet.  BH00088

The wrath of God is the erroneous designation for logic, causality, in brief, the justice of God.   ABU2114

No matter comes to pass without a cause.   BH03885

Be not distressed at the delay of matters - every matter is bound to its time.  BH07258

"When the child is hungry and cries for milk, the milk of the mother begins to flow rapidly."  ABU3514

God has refused to cause things to flow except through their means, and We have appointed for all things a cause.   AB03357

Man must work in unison with the laws ordained by Providence. All good things that take place are based on Divine Wisdom.  ABU3230

The chain of creation is interwoven in a natural law and divine order. Everything is interlinked. A link cannot be broken without affecting that natural order.  ABU2457

The fruit of this will be that, like that same party, thou wilt engage in cursing and reviling the Truth, and ultimately pronounce the verdict for His martyrdom.  BH00342

O servants! I have made all things dependent upon means, and ordained it to be the cause of the Most Great Resurrection and the instrument of the Most Great Revival.  BH03853

This universe is not created through the fortuitous concurrences of atoms; it is created by a great law which decrees that the tree bring forth certain definite fruit.  ABU2415

Since He hath ordained for every thing an effect and means through the manifestation of the Influential Name, one must seek from the Causer of causes through these means   BH05526

One day when in Acca, Abdul-Baha, speaking of the mentioned fact and explaining that the possibility of every effect is latent or deposited in its cause, gave the following illustration:  ABU2702

It is impossible for any deed to remain without effect. If you sow a pure seed in the soil, a blessed harvest will result. When seeds of hatred are planted in the earth, such tares will certainly result.   AB01381

Otherwise there is no doubt that the blessed Word is penetrating and, like the sun's heat, influences all things - the only difference being that its effects appear more slowly in some things and more quickly in others  ABU1918

Thus combination, arrangement, pairing, blending, composition and synthesis became the cause of life in all things, while analysis, separation, dispersion, dissolution and decomposition became the cause of death and non-existence.   AB12166

In the Universe, all atoms and particles are united by the power of attraction and cohesion; if it were not for this, everything would be immediately dissolved and annihilated. The life of the whole creation depend upon this power.   ABU1391

The law of causation is firmly established, and the manifestation of all things occurs through definite and determined means. Exalted be His Command and His Greatness! For every matter there is an appointed time and a destined cause.  BH00823

Irrevocable fate is likened to how a lamp's oil will inevitably burn out, while conditional fate is like a strong wind that may or may not extinguish the lamp before its oil is consumed. This demonstrates the operation of natural cause and effect.  AB05420

Events like these happen because of the connection between the parts of the universe, for every small part has connection with every great part, and what affects one affects the other or all others. On account of this connection, the actions of man have effect.  ABU2116

Were it not for his confirmation man could accomplish nothing. Help must come from Him. For example the power of a provincial governor must come from the central authority. If he is not vested with executive powers by the Shah or the King he is unable to accomplish anything.  ABU2327

It is the inherent nature of fire is to burn, the inherent nature of electricity is to give light, the inherent nature of the sun is to shine, and the inherent nature of the organic earth is the power of growth. There is no separation between a thing and its inherent qualities.  ABU0257

God established the term for the sake of causes, and God raised the book through the rulings of effects, so that nothing of existence would be missed from the Book except that they would find it explained as to causes in this Book and clarified as to reasons in the mystery of this Gate.  BB00364

Every matter appears through causes. He created man and placed within him the sign of love, and the strengthening of this love has been through meeting and union by means of causes, and in separation and remoteness through the means of pen and ink, which preserve the stations of nearness in distance.  BH01032

These relationships have been placed in the realities of existent beings through the power of creation and every incident is a consequence of the necessary relationship. For example, God hath created a relation between the sun and the terrestrial globe that the rays of the sun should shine and the soil should yield.  AB03929

Some maintain that the realization of things, the composition of beings, and their analysis stem from interaction, and therefore have no need of a true Director. In truth, there exists a marvelous connection between these elements and beings, and from this connection interaction becomes clear and evident, as in the human world.  ABU1362

If we say that composition is accidental, this is philosophically a false theory, because then we have to believe in an effect without a cause, and philosophically no effect is conceivable without a cause. We cannot think of an effect without some primal cause, and composition being an effect, there must naturally be a cause behind it.   ABU0591

Yet when you look at nature itself, you see that it possesses neither consciousness nor will. For example, fire's nature is to burn - it burns without will or awareness. Water's nature is to flow - it flows without will or awareness. The sun's nature is to shine - it shines without will or awareness. Vapor's nature is to rise - it rises without will or awareness.  AB01029

The hens were very worried that the sun wouldn't rise if the crowing of their lord and master did not summon it. The hens, you see, thought the sun came up only because the rooster crowed. The next day the sun cured them of their superstition. To be sure, the rooster was still too sick and too hoarse to crow, but the sun shone anyway; nothing bad affected its course.  ABU2701

Know that God, glorified be He, has not created anything upon which falls the name of thing except through what the essence of that thing accepts. And it is impossible for anything in the heavens and earth to receive existence except through seven aspects, which are: Will, Purpose, Measure, Decree, Permission, Term, and Book. Whosoever claims the absence of any one of these has disbelieved.  BB00366

Laughter is caused by the slackening or the relaxation of nerves. Laughter is the visible effect of an invisible cause. Happiness is caused either by looking at a beautiful picture of witnessing a delectable panorama or associating with the person whom you love or listening to a good voice or solving an intellectual problem. All these are the motives of happiness but the real cause is spiritual.  ABU2694

The great events which happen are due to this connection. There is day, there is night; sometimes there are eclipses, etc.--all according to the requirements of this Divine system. Even unpleasant things, such as chill in the feet which is felt in the head, a disagreeable odor which affects the whole system, or trifles (which are endless, and seem to be accidental) such as a small hair appearing in an unusual place on a man's face, should also be considered as having a place or part in this general system. Therefore, what we call an accident is the effect of the connection of all the parts, and no events transpire in vain.  ABU1589

Furthermore, although all created things grow and develop, yet are they subjected to influences from without. For instance, the sun giveth heat, the rain nourisheth, the wind bringeth life, so that man can develop and grow. Thus it is clear that the human body is under influences from the outside, and that without those influences man could not grow. And likewise, those outside influences are subjected to other influences in their turn. For example, the growth and development of a human being is dependent upon the existence of water, and water is dependent upon the existence of rain, and rain is dependent upon the existence of clouds, and clouds are dependent upon the existence of the sun, which causeth land and sea to produce vapour, the condensation of vapour forming the clouds. Thus each one of these entities exerteth its influence and is likewise influenced in its turn.   AB00103
