
But the command of worship is to be found in the Book.   ABU0685

living and walking according to the laws of the Book of Akdas  AB09477

at most we carried out the obligatory devotions and divine ordinances   AB02259

Recite the Obligatory Prayer and supplications as much as thou art able  AB12011

I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me to know Thee and to worship Thee. I testify, at this moment, to my powerlessness and to Thy might, to my poverty and to Thy wealth. There is none other God but Thee, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  Short obligatory prayer, to be recited once in twenty-four hours, at noon.  BH11209

The soul must needs be suppliant to God and perform the obligatory prayers  AB07923

As to the Obligatory Prayer, it hath a Qiblih that is fixed, specified, holy and blessed.  AB11989

No, the ablution is only for the obligatory daily prayer which should be said three times a day.  ABU3612

even as Thou didst make obligatory prayer a ladder of ascent unto those who acknowledge Thy unity  BH01503

The laws of God regarding fasting and obligatory prayer are absolutely incumbent upon His servants.  AB11886

This Wronged One and those who accept Him in this land hold fast to the strong cord of fasting and prayer   BH03761

Regarding the question about the noon prayer, the time for this prayer also extends until the next prayer.   AB00042

As for the second question, it is permissible to perform two prayers with one ablution unless the ablution becomes void.  AB11225

Perform ye, likewise, ablutions for the Obligatory Prayer; this is the command of God, the Incomparable, the Unrestrained.  BH00001

The divine laws are a luminous lamp amidst the servants and living waters for those who have turned unto them and act upon them.   BH06613

The designation of the Qiblih and its promulgation is not at present conducive to divine wisdom. It will be announced in due time.  AB09659

Today all must fix their gaze upon the divine ordinances and act in accordance with whatsoever hath been revealed in the Most Holy Book  BH10382

and fasting and prayer are as the sun and moon in the heaven of divine ordinances. Seize upon these twain through the power of thy Lord  BH02219

Whoso wisheth to pray, let him wash his hands, and while he washeth, let him say:  Strengthen my hand, O my God, that it may take hold of Thy Book with such steadfastness that the hosts of the world shall have no power over it. Guard it, then, from meddling with whatsoever doth not belong unto it. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Powerful... Medium obligatory prayer, to be recited daily, in the morning, at noon, and in the evening.  BH03447

Be not neglectful of obligatory prayer and fasting. He who faileth to observe them hath not been nor will ever be acceptable in the sight of God.  BH11490

Obligatory prayer and supplication cause man to reach the kingdom of mystery, and the worship of the Supreme One bestows nearness unto His threshold.  AB11899

Furthermore, He counsels thee to observe fasting and prayer. Know thou that religion is as the heaven, and fasting and prayer are as its sun and moon.  BH11863

Be constant in prayer and mindful in fasting. Day and night occupy yourselves with devotion, supplication and prayer, especially at the designated time.   AB01700

He was not referring here to the obligatory daily prayers, one of which is chosen by the believer to recite, nor other prayers revealed for special times   ABU3093

What is essential today is steadfastness in the Cause and adherence to the divine ordinances which have dawned and are manifest from the horizon of the Book   BH10865

And We have ordained obligatory prayer and fasting so that all may by these means draw nigh unto God, the Most Powerful, the Well-Beloved. We have written down these two laws and expounded every irrevocable decree. We have forbidden men from following whatsoever might cause them to stray from the Truth, and have commanded them to observe that which will draw them nearer unto Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Loving.  BH05113

The laws of the Holy Book (Kitab-i-Aqdas) are valid for each Baha'i, even when they are not yet practicable, as the Holy Teaching has not yet been fully accepted in any one country.  ABU0375

If ablutions are performed for another purpose and prayer time coincides, are those ablutions sufficient or must they be renewed? Answer: Those ablutions suffice; renewal is not required.  BH00069

Regarding the nine-rak'at prayer about which you inquired...As for the other three prayers, they too are abrogated. Whichever one is performed will be acceptable. And prayer before sunrise is permitted   AB05603

Prayer is very easy because there is the Long, Short and Medium Obligatory Prayer. When one feels spiritually uplifted and attracted, one can say the Long Obligatory Prayer, and even that is not so lengthy.   ABU2346

for in the realm of worship, fasting and obligatory prayer constitute the two mightiest pillars of God's holy Law. Neglecting them is in no wise permitted, and falling short in their performance is certainly unseemly.   AB00048

The souls in this land, praise be to God, are not lazy like some Babis - they observe the seventeen-hour fast and likewise maintain the law of prayer. In truth, a person without worship is seen to be without effect and fruit.  BH06414

All praise be unto God, Who hath revealed the law of obligatory prayer as a reminder to His servants, and enjoined on them the Fast that those possessed of means may become apprised of the woes and sufferings of the destitute.  BH11862

Obligatory prayer and other supplications are essential to servitude unto Him Who is the All-Sufficing.... When the Obligatory Prayers and other prayers are joined together and follow each other, worship attaineth its perfection.  AB11988

Recite this prayer every day after noon, that ye may inherit Paradise purely from God's decree forever... And when thou hast completed the prayer, glorify thy Lord a prescribed number of times that thou mayest be numbered among those who act.  BB00025

The traditions established the fact that in all Dispensations the law of prayer hath constituted a fundamental element of the Revelation of all the Prophets of God-a law the form and the manner of which hath been adapted to the varying requirements of every age.  BH00002

Whoso wisheth to recite this prayer, let him stand up and turn unto God, and, as he standeth in his place, let him gaze to the right and to the left, as if awaiting the mercy of his Lord, the Most Merciful, the Compassionate. Then let him say: O Thou Who art the Lord of all names and the Maker of the heavens! I beseech Thee by them Who are the Day-Springs of Thine invisible Essence, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, to make of my prayer a fire that will burn away the veils which have shut me out from Thy beauty, and a light that will lead me unto the ocean of Thy Presence.... Long obligatory prayer, to be recited once in twenty-four hours.  BH00987

Ablutions performed before or at the time of prayer are both acceptable and need not be renewed unless invalidated, for there is no requirement that ablutions be immediately followed by prayer. If there is an interval between ablutions and prayer, the prayer remains valid.  AB11484

We have commanded you to pray and fast from the beginning of maturity; this is ordained by God, your Lord and the Lord of your forefathers. He hath exempted from this those who are weak from illness or age, as a bounty from His Presence, and He is the Forgiving, the Generous.  BH00001

Cling firmly to obligatory prayer and fasting. Verily, the religion of God is like unto heaven; fasting is its sun, and obligatory prayer is its moon. In truth, they are the pillars of religion whereby the righteous are distinguished from those who transgress His commandments.   BH07396

Most importantly to the implementation of divine worship ordinances such as prayer and fasting with utmost strength. Since the contents of the treatise relate to established true beliefs, therefore they must first become firmly rooted in the heart, then one should engage in worship.   AB01220

In this Dispensation, there are only the prescribed obligatory prayers. As for litanies, invocations, voluntary and recommended prayers that are not obligatory - while the recitation of any prayer after the obligatory prayer is beloved and acceptable, there is no specific requirement.   AB02817

"O thou beloved and spiritual friend! Thou hast asked regarding of the wisdom of the obligatory prayers: Know thou that this prayer hath been prescribed as an obligation and an ordinance. Man is not exempt therefrom for any reason unless he is disabled or a catastrophe should have occurred."  AB01907

You must certainly guide everyone to perform their prayers, for it is the ascension of spirits and the lamp of the hearts of the righteous. It is the living waters of the paradise of good-pleasure and an explicitly ordained duty from the All-Merciful. Delay and negligence are never permissible.   AB06076

The obligatory prayer, or daily prayer ... There are three prayers. One is necessary ... There are three daily prayers. One of them has no prostrations, one only sits and repeats it. This is the easiest of all, but the second one has the prostrations. The third one, the longest, has many prostrations.  ABU0314

Hair doth not invalidate your prayer, nor aught from which the spirit hath departed, such as bones and the like. Ye are free to wear the fur of the sable as ye would that of the beaver, the squirrel, and other animals; the prohibition of its use hath stemmed, not from the Qur'an, but from the misconceptions of the divines.  BH00001

"As to the obligatory prayer (to be said three times a day): Each one must say his prayer alone by himself, and this is not conditional on a private place; that is, both at home and in the worshipping-place, which is a gathering-place, it is allowable for one to say his prayer; but each person must say his prayer by himself."   AB03276

Know that prayer is the first fruit of religion and upon it revolve all deeds. It is the first thing God made obligatory upon His servants. In its entirety within God's Book, it is the temple of unity springing from the heart. None shall be accepted who does not know its laws, and none shall be elevated save through observing all its stations.  BB00039

Let not the tradition "Be mindful in prayer" pass from sight. Make "Prayer is the pillar of religion" thy guiding principle, and soar to the heights of meaning and utterance on the wings of remembrance and praise. He hath said: "Prayer is the ladder of the believer. Hold fast unto it. Religion is heaven; prayer is its sun, and fasting is its moon".  BH03974

There are two forms of prayer in this religion, that is the obligatory prayers which are (1) the long obligatory prayer, (2) the Daily prayer, beginning, "O my God strengthen Thou these hands, etc." (3) the short one. One of these prayers must be used three times daily according to the circumstances and the time at the disposal of the believer using them.  ABU2604

All prayers are abrogated for you save nineteen rak'ahs from noon unto noon, performed one by one with standing, devotion and sitting, that on the Day of Resurrection ye may stand, then prostrate, then show devotion and sit before God. And in your hearts shall be a sign from the letters of the Unity, a sign from God your Lord, that thereby ye may be saved.  BB00020

And regarding what thou asked about the call to prayer and the standing prayer - I love not that thou shouldst abandon them in obligatory prayers, though if thou abandon them entirely, no blame attacheth to thee. The call to prayer may be omitted if thou desirest not to give it, but the standing prayer is incumbent upon thee from God's Book, glory be to Him.  BB00031

His Blessed Perfection (Baha'u'llah) confirmed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas the ordinance of His Holiness the Bab in His Book of Laws (the Bayan), in which He abolishes public group prayer with liturgical forms (salat-i-jum'ih), in contrast to the Christian church prayers, the prayers of the synagogues and mosques. The main prayer should be individual - in personal solitude.  ABU0200

As to the question: "Whither shall we turn in our prayers?" There is an appointed center toward which one must direct himself in prayer, but at present this center is not unfolded because of wisdom. In its time this shall be announced. At present, in those regions, you should direct yourself, as formerly, to the East. The appointed and certain center will be announced in its time.  AB00511

Likewise, the Obligatory Prayers have been set down by the Pen of the Most High and have been mentioned in the Persian Questions and Answers, which supplementeth the Kitab-i-Aqdas. They are clearly binding, and without a doubt everyone must perform one of these three prayers. At present, since the Command hath not been openly proclaimed, if someone should fall short, let there be no reproach or rebuke.  AB11906

Concerning the question about the direction of prayer, there is a clear text in the Kitab-i-Aqdas which states: When ye desire to perform your prayers turn your faces toward My Most Holy Court, and continues until it states and when the Sun of Truth and Utterance sets, the place which We have ordained for you. This is the sacred place that was specifically designated by the Supreme Pen in a special Tablet.  AB06418

Know that, according to God's decree, prayer is not valid except with pure earth... The water of heaven, the sea, and flowing springs never becomes impure. As for other waters, if impurity overcomes the water such that its essential nature is changed - whether in color, taste or smell - it is not valid for anyone to use it for anything... Human impurity is purified when the substance is removed and a kurr of water or flowing water contacts it.  BB00039

God hath prescribed unto thee nineteen rak'ahs of prayer, which We shall explain in detail hereafter, if God willeth, if ye be of them that believe. God hath indeed ordained that ye should perform your ablutions with rose water if ye are able, and if this be not available, then water alone shall suffice you - will ye not understand? Wash ye your hands, then your faces from the wrist upward, and dry your faces with a towel that ye may be thankful.  BB00056

Obligatory prayer is the very foundation of the Cause of God. Through it joy and vitality infuse the heart. Even if every grief should surround me, as soon as I engage in conversing with God in obligatory prayer, all my sorrows disappear and I attain joy and gladness. A condition descendeth upon me which I am unable to describe or express. Whenever, with full awareness and humility, we undertake to perform the Obligatory Prayer before God, and recite it with heartfelt tenderness, we shall taste such sweetness as to endow all existence with eternal life.   AB00993

How great, how very great, can the law of obligatory prayer be, when, through His mercy and loving kindness, one is enabled to observe it. When a man commenceth the recitation of the Obligatory Prayer, he should see himself severed from all created things and regard himself as utter nothingness before the will and purpose of God, in such wise that he seeth naught but Him in the world of being. This is the station of God's well-favored ones and those who are wholly devoted to Him. Should one perform the Obligatory Prayer in this manner, he will be accounted by God and the Concourse on high among those who have truly offered the prayer.  BH11831

We have enjoined obligatory prayer upon you, with nine rak'ahs, to be offered at noon and in the morning and the evening unto God, the Revealer of Verses. We have relieved you of a greater number, as a command in the Book of God. When ye desire to perform this prayer, turn ye towards the Court of My Most Holy Presence, this Hallowed Spot that God hath made the Centre round which circle the Concourse on High, and which He hath decreed to be the Point of Adoration for the denizens of the Cities of Eternity, and the Source of Command unto all that are in heaven and on earth; and when the Sun of Truth and Utterance shall set, turn your faces towards the Spot that We have ordained for you.  BH00001

then perform ablutions with pure, clean water as thou wert commanded in the Bayan from an ancient Revealer, and when thou washest thy hands say: "O my Lord! Purify me from all else save Thee, then make me ready to meet Thee in the Day of the manifestation of Thy Beauty and the appearance of Thy Self, then sanctify me from that which hath veiled me from Thy resplendent Beauty, and deliver me, O my God, for the recognition of Thy exalted, all-knowing Self." And when thou washest thy face say: "O my Lord! This is my face which I wash as Thou hast commanded me with this water. Then, O my God, I beseech Thee by Thy Name from which the servants are veiled except the sincere ones among Thy creatures, that Thou wash my face with the water of Thy mercy which hath flowed from the right hand of the throne of Thy grandeur, that it may be pure for Thy holy, radiant, resplendent Face."  BH00305

Concerning what you wrote about the Fast - the Fast remains as it was, that is, the Fast of the Bayan, as explicitly mentioned in the Kitab-i-Aqdas. As for the obligatory prayer, it hath been revealed in such wise that should one recite it but once with a detached heart, he would surely find himself detached from the world. However, for reasons of wisdom it remaineth concealed for now and no command hath been given to observe it.  BH00170

Concerning the obligatory prayer which his honor mentioned: in truth, whosoever recites it purely for the sake of God will attract all things and bestow fresh life upon the world of existence. The servant beseeches his Lord to assist His loved ones in that which will free them from the vicissitudes, conditions, troubles and darkness of this world, and adorn them with that which will draw them near unto Him in all circumstances. Verily, He is the Self-Sufficient, the Most Exalted. This prayer is different from the one revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas. That prayer, along with the writings of the Primal Point, may the souls of all else be sacrificed for His sake, was, due to matters of wisdom, sent elsewhere. And after several years another prayer was revealed, which is also not available. Then these mentioned prayers were revealed from the heaven of bounty of the Goal of all the worlds. The intention is to perform one of these three prayers - that is, if one of the three is performed, the other two are not obligatory. Likewise, regarding individual and congregational prayer, instruction will come later, and by command, whatever has been revealed concerning the ordinances will be sent subsequently. BH00043

Concerning ablutions that were asked about - whether it is possible with the ablutions performed for obligatory prayer to also recite ninety-five times the Greatest Name and visit the Shrine of the Ancient Beauty, or whether ablutions must be renewed for each one - after submission [to God], the Tongue of God spoke these words: Renewal is not necessary. In all matters His grace encompasses all and His mercy takes precedence.  BH00022

