Marriage to two sisters at the same time is not permissible.  AB11250

Multiple wives causes corruption of the family.  ABU2455

God hath prescribed matrimony unto you. Beware that ye take not unto yourselves more wives than two. Whoso contenteth himself with a single partner from among the maidservants of God, both he and she shall live in tranquillity. And he who would take into his service a maid may do so with propriety. Such is the ordinance which, in truth and justice, hath been recorded by the Pen of Revelation. Enter into wedlock, O people, that ye may bring forth one who will make mention of Me amid My servants. This is My bidding unto you; hold fast to it as an assistance to yourselves.  BH00001

As for the right to choose the residence, although this belongs to the husband, if the choice of residence is made with mutual consent, this is more complete and causes joy and fragrance.   AB03541


Taking and giving [in marriage] with any group and any religion is permitted.  AB02992

Regarding dowry, contentment with the lowest degree means nineteen mithqals of silver.  BH00069

marriage after the maturity of the wife is at age fifteen and is not permitted before maturity  AB02418

according to the law of God this is permitted...However, re-marriage is permissible in the Faith.  AB05702

"Intermarriage is a good way to efface racial differences. It produces strong, beautiful offspring, clever and resourceful."  ABU3388

As for determining the dowry, this depends on the husband - if from city dwellers it is gold, and if from villagers it is silver.   AB03541

As for the matter of news of death or murder of a spouse and waiting nine months, this applies to an absent spouse, not a present one   AB04113

Marriage is contingent upon the consent of both the man's and woman's parents, and there is no distinction between virgins and non-virgins.  BH00069

it is explicitly stated in the Book that when a daughter is betrothed, the wedding cannot be delayed more than ninety-five days.  AB01563

If you have any influence to get the races to intermarry, it will be very valuable. Such unions will beget very strong and beautiful children.   ABU3197

"It makes no difference whether one marries or not, that is of importance only to the individual. I do not command, they make their own choice."   ABU1200

Deliberation and patience are necessary until her mother giveth her consent and thy father and mother also acquiesce. This is the divine commandment!  AB04940

The limits of travel are set forth and recorded in the Book. It must be undertaken with the consent of both parties, that is, regarding the duration.   BH04630

Before the advent of the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon Him), polygamy was so prevalent and widespread among the Arabs that it was impossible to suddenly mandate monogamy. Despite this, He states that if you cannot deal justly between four wives, then you must choose one. From this verse it is clear that in reality, in the sight of God, only one wife is permissible and acceptable, since equitable treatment is impossible. ABU3006

It is not forbidden for a man to have two wives, but since it is difficult to treat them both equally, a fair and pious person will not choose to have two wives.  ABU3699

Marriage depends primarily upon the consent of the parties and thereafter upon the knowledge of the parents. Thus it hath been decreed by the Pen of the Most High.  BH07008

O peerless Lord! In Thine almighty wisdom Thou hast enjoined marriage upon the peoples, that the generations of men may succeed one another in this contingent world  AB05652

The law of waiting was revealed when the husband's fate was concealed, but after its discovery to act according to what is revealed in God's Book was and is beloved.   BH02421

Marriage of daughters before age fifteen is not permitted according to the decisive text, as it causes illness in souls and leads to weakness and lassitude in progeny.  AB06408

The ruling of one wife is acceptable in the sight of God, otherwise multiple wives causes corruption of the family. But marriage to a distant relation is certainly better.  ABU2455

That which has been revealed in this connection in the Kitab-i-Aqdas has already been dispatched. A Marriage Prayer has also been revealed of late from the Heaven of Divine Unity.  BH03181

However, according to the explicit text of the Book, the dowry must not exceed five units of dirhams or dinars. This is a decisive ruling, definitively ordained by the Most Exalted Pen.   AB02993

Concerning what they wrote about marriage - it is not permissible to pass it by, for it is among God's traditions established among creatures, as has been revealed in detail from the Most Holy Book  BH10796

Marriage is the essential and outward fruit of Love, it is the cause of affinity and communication between two souls, so that they may become so blended together as to find the expression of one soul.   AB03299

But if one has had children by one's first wife and decides to forego a second marriage, he will find life more comfortable, the home more peaceful and the atmosphere more conducive to joy and fragrance.  AB05702

Generally the offsprings of marriages between the age of 25 and 40 become hole, muscular, able-bodied and brawny; provided the contracting parties have been free from diseases and certain weaknesses of the body.  ABU1399

"The object of marriage is to create a family. Therefore marriage must be very carefully considered. The Blessed Beauty said that we must marry so that children may arise to be the cause of the illumination of the world."  ABU0697

"In the East, among the Muhammedans and Christians, there is no love between the bride and her mother-in-law, as a rule; there is continual quarreling and contention, because the consent of the parents has not been obtained for marriage."  ABU0697

However, justice, which is a requirement - as in the case of the permission for plural marriage in the Book of God being conditional upon justice - and since justice is impossible to achieve, therefore one must be content with one spouse.  AB10410

As for the question regarding marriage under the Law of God: first thou must choose one who is pleasing to thee, and then the matter is subject to the consent of father and mother. Before thou makest thy choice, they have no right to interfere.  AB01117

The fact is that Baha'u'llah's plurality of wives occurred prior to the revelation of the Aqdas. Hence at that time in conformity with the laws of the previous Dispensation and in view of certain considerations, He had two wives at the same time.  AB03180

Regarding marriage that you had written about, following the decisive text is necessary and delay is not permitted. However in such cases marriage should be conducted with utmost simplicity, without noise and clamor and without burden and publicity.   AB11633

If you wish to join two souls in marriage, none can prevent you from this as a bounty from God upon you and upon them both. God has nurtured you in them both before the creation of the heavens and earth and what lies between them, for He is the Best of Judges.   BB00276

God's commandment on this matter is what has already in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, been revealed by the command of Him Who is the Lord of all Names, from His Exalted Kingdom. Cling ye unto whatsoever hath been revealed therein of the laws of God, the Mighty, the Self Subsisting.   BH01684

"In the religion of God the consent of both parties is necessary. No one can compel a couple to marry - at most we give permission, we do not interfere more than this. Both parties must consent then the consent of the parents on both sides is necessary. This is obligatory."  ABU0697

Concerning marriage about which you had written - it is explicitly mentioned in the Book and needs no repetition. However, the more distant [the relation], the better, for the constitution of the children becomes stronger, their features better, and their health and well-being increase.  AB11145

Marriage is necessary. It is a command of God. Humanity is continued through the practice of this law but the life in the family must be pure, soul-elevating so that the children may breath the uncontaminated atmosphere of sanctity and the love of their parents may be a great example to them.   ABU2489

He it is Who hath made marriage a means for the population of the world and a cause for the manifestation of grace amongst the peoples. He it is Who hath commanded all to wed and made it the source of prosperity and other matters which none knoweth save His Self that dominateth all in earth and heaven.  BH07141

As for a third wife, it is in no way permissible and is absolutely forbidden, even if both wives are incompatible and separation impossible, and even if there are no children; nevertheless, no excuse shall be accepted. Even a second wife is conditional upon justice, and justice is very difficult. Blessed is he who is capable of this.  AB07848

You shall join the letter Ba' to the letter Alif according to what We have revealed in the Book. Then fear ye Me. Say: In cities the amount is ninety-five mithqals of gold, while in villages it is the same amount in silver, descending to nineteen mithqals when the number of the Vahid is reached, if mutual satisfaction exists between them.  BB00020

Marriage and divorce must be carried out with the knowledge of the government or through those in authority, otherwise difficulties will arise. In any case, marriage and divorce must be administered under an effective center, so that should either party seek to undermine them, they would be powerless to do so, but rather be compelled to obey, and upon thee be the Most Glorious Glory.  AB11152

For according to the binding injunction of the Book, ere entering upon one's fifteenth year marriage is not permitted. Nomination and betrothal too should not take place before the wedding: that is, after the engagement no more than 95 days should pass before the marriage. Likewise the consent of both parties is the first condition; yet consent before maturity is invalid, while the age of maturity is set at fifteen.  AB05537

Regarding your question about the five units of dowry - whether one and a half units, or a quarter, or some in gold and some in silver is permissible - it is not so, for it is explicitly specified as either gold or silver. Therefore substitution is not permitted, nor division. However, increasing four units above the first unit is permissible, but division is not allowed as it is explicitly specified without interpretation.   AB11953

In the Bible polygamy is not forbidden. Christ prohibited divorce only. In the first century the Christians used to marry several wives. Even Paul says that the religious leaders ('elder') must have one wife only. More than one is not permitted, as otherwise he will be distracted. From this it may be inferred that they used to marry more than one. Monogamy was instituted by the Church Council, for this was the habit of the old times.  ABU2190

After the consent of both parties and the consent of the parents, they should gather in a place among the God-fearing and recite this blessed sermon with the utmost joy and fragrance. After the recitation of the sermon, the beloved and his beloved should, in a separate place, recite these two blessed verses that were revealed in the Bayan. Then the husband should deliver the dowry to his wife, and both parties should sign the document, as well as the witnesses.  BH03116

With regard to your question concerning polygamy, according to the Holy Text bigamy is permissible. It is not forbidden and is indeed lawful. Do not therefore feel sad. Try, as far as possible, to be just in your relationships with them. What has been revealed in the Holy Text is that, since it is extremely difficult to act with justice, it is more conducive to one's well-being and happiness to practice monogamy, but do not be sad now that you have married a second wife.  AB10397

What was revealed in the Bayan regarding the people of cities and villages remains valid and binding. However, in the Most Holy Book mention is made of the first degree, and what is meant by the first degree is nineteen mithqals of silver, which was revealed in the Bayan concerning the village-dwellers. This is most beloved before God if both parties accept, for the purpose is the comfort of all and the union and unity of the people. Therefore, the more accommodating one is in these matters, the better.  BH05929

divine wisdom in marriage requires that it be between distant relations, meaning that the greater the distance between spouses, the stronger, more beautiful and healthier the offspring will be. This is also established and verified in medical science, and medical rules are prescribed and acting upon them is mandatory. Therefore, as much as possible one should marry those of distant relation, and when the Baha'i Cause gains strength, be assured that marriage between close relatives will also become rare.  AB00494

As for plural marriage, plural marriage is explicitly permitted and has not been abrogated, and 'Abdu'l-Baha has not abrogated this law - this is one of the fabrications of the friends. However, I say that justice has been made a condition for plural marriage, such that unless one is certain of maintaining justice and his heart is assured that he will act with justice, he should not undertake a second marriage. Only when he is absolutely certain that he will maintain justice in all aspects is a second marriage permitted.  AB00629

As for marriage, it is entirely a matter of civil law, yet in the Law of God its conditions are set forth and its fundamentals are made clear. However, the marriage of close relatives is not explicitly mentioned and is referred to the House of Justice, which will decide according to the principles of civilization, the requirements of medicine and wisdom, and human nature. There is no doubt that according to the principles of civilization, medicine, and nature, marriage between distant relations is preferable to marriage between close relations.   AB00151

The Bahai engagement is the perfect communication and the entire consent of both parties. However, they must show forth the utmost attention and become informed of one another's character and the firm covenant made between each other must become an eternal binding, and their intentions must be everlasting affinity, friendship, unity and life. The bridegroom must, before the bridesman and a few others, say: "Verily, we are content with the will of god." And the bride must rejoin: "Verily, we are satisfied with the desire of God." This is Bahai matrimony.  AB03461

As for the matter of plural marriage, the Most Great Name enacted it only for a hidden wisdom and divine mystery...Know that God's law does not permit plural marriage, for it explicitly states contentment with one wife and makes a second wife conditional upon justice and fairness between them in all ranks and conditions. But justice and fairness between two wives is impossible and unattainable. Making this matter conditional upon something impossible to achieve is clear proof that it is not permitted in any way. Therefore only one wife is permitted for each person.  AB00710

If a wife leaves her husband without an acceptable and legitimate excuse, she has no right to claim maintenance and is considered rebellious. She must obey her husband. And if she has a legitimate excuse, she must present it to the Spiritual Assembly. The members of the Spiritual Assembly should consider and investigate - if the wife's excuse for leaving the husband's home is legitimate, meaning her dissatisfaction is due to compelling legitimate reasons, then the wife has a legal right to maintenance and housing. Or the husband may satisfy his wife and bring her home.  AB00665

As to what was asked regarding when someone travels without setting a specific time and becomes lost without news or trace, what is the duty of the spouse? This is what was revealed from the heaven of the bounty of our Lord, the All-Bestowing, in reply: If she has heard the appointed time set forth in the Book of God and has neglected it, she must wait a complete year, after which she has the choice to remain patient or take another husband. If she has not heard it, she must wait until God makes His cause manifest. What is meant by patience in this context is forbearance.  BH01104

After the marriage agreement and its confirmation and public announcement - meaning formally informing friends and companions that the marriage of these two souls has been confirmed and established - no more than ninety-five days may pass before the consummation must take place and the two verses be recited and the dowry delivered. If it exceeds ninety-five days it is forbidden and disobedience to the Lord's command, though the contract is not invalidated. Whoever causes delay is responsible and subject to reproach and rebuke. Support, clothing and housing become established from the day of consummation.  AB01502

As to your question regarding a man who claimed to a woman that you are my wife and we recited the verse of consent, and agreed upon a specified dowry according to the law of the Book, and neither party had anyone present whose permission was required, nor were there other witnesses, and now the woman denies it saying such a thing never occurred and it is a lie - what is the ruling and judgment? These matters were presented before His presence and He said: This marriage was not performed according to the law of the Book, for the marriage vows must be recited and a group must be present so that afterwards no one can deny it. The vows are not obligatory but witnesses are required.  BH00035

God hath fixed the dowry at nineteen mithqals of gold, increasing by one mithqal until it reacheth ninety-five mithqals if the bride be from among the people of the city; and if she be from among the people of the villages, nineteen mithqals of silver, increasing by one mithqal until it reacheth ninety-five mithqals - little do ye comprehend this. God hath ordained that both the man and woman should be present, and that the dowry should be placed in the hands of the woman, and that the man should utter the word of consent, saying "We are, all of us, content in God," and likewise should the woman say "We are, all of us, content in God" - this is a limit set in the Book of God, that ye may not transgress it.  BB00056

Regarding the matter of marriage and the prescribed period between engagement and wedding that you had written about - this is the decisive text of the Book of God and admits of no interpretation: In the past, after engagement and even after the marriage contract and dowry, the wedding would be delayed for a long time, causing major problems. Now the text of the Book is this: When marriage and the union of husband and wife is decided, meaning this girl is promised to this boy and the union is definite, no more than ninety-five days' delay is permitted for preparation of the trousseau and other matters - the wedding must take place. And the marriage contract is on the night of the wedding, meaning there is no interval between contract and wedding.  AB08236
