When any laws are abrogated, even though the people may not believe and be convinced, they become ineffective. Divine laws influence the realm of possibility, and if souls lack capacity, other created things possess it. Time has capacity, existence has capacity.   ABU0458

The Command of God hath been revealed with joy and fragrance. Blessed is he who hath attained unto it, and woe unto the heedless! The Kitab-i-Aqdas, which was sent down from the holy heaven in previous years, remained concealed for a time and He did not command that it be sent to other lands. He stated that the ordinance of Huququ'llah was revealed in that Book, and this was due to God's mercy and kindness, for after the servants became aware of what the All-Merciful had revealed therein, compliance with it would become obligatory upon all. Perhaps they might be reluctant to fulfill it, or something might occur to their hearts unbefitting these divine days. Later, petitions arrived at the Most Holy Court from most regions requesting the laws, and this servant sent them according to His command. However, He commanded that no one should request the Huquq. It is prescribed in the Book of God for each soul to pay it of their own accord with the utmost joy and delight. I beseech Him, exalted be He, to assist all to do what He loves and is pleased with.  BH00145

They that immerse themselves in the ocean of His utterances should at all times have the utmost regard for the divinely-revealed ordinances and prohibitions. Indeed His ordinances constitute the mightiest stronghold for the protection of the world and the safeguarding of its peoples-a light upon those who acknowledge and recognize the truth, and a fire unto such as turn away and deny.   BH00668

you must arise to obey the divine commands and ordinances.   AB11901

act according to that which ye have been commanded in the Book   BH08379

act according to that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book   BH07309

they must not transgress the divine commandments   BH08150

Follow what is revealed unto thee from this glorious Book.  BB00516

Hold fast to the Book of God and what hath been sent down therein of laws and ordinances.   BH11167

The state, religious, administrative and criminal laws of the Kitab-i-Aqdas are all more or less connected to the basic law of the love of one's enemy and of peaceableness.  ABU0429

The Most Holy Book hath been sent down from the holy Kingdom and the divine commandments are manifest therein without veil or concealment. All must act according to it.   BH03374

This is not from me but from Him, and through verses and clear proofs it is evident that if any fair-minded person were to compare the Kitab-i-Aqdas, which was revealed at the beginning of imprisonment, with the books possessed by the deniers, the radiance of the Word would shine forth like the sun and be proven.  BH00072

When the Ocean of God's Primal Will turned towards creation and its adornment, and the refinement of souls and their preparation, He ordained the Supreme Pen as His first interpreter and commanded it to promulgate His laws and ordinances. These laws and ordinances have had and shall have no purpose except the preservation of souls, their comfort, education and advancement to the heights of certitude, which are the cause and reason for the prosperity of the world, its security and the perpetuation of existence.   BH00862


The divine laws and religions are God's dispensary. The remedy for every ailment exists therein.   ABU2458

The kissing of hands hath been forbidden in the Book.  BH00001

whosoever hath acted according to the divine commandments and held fast to the Most Holy Book which hath been sent down from the holy Kingdom, is reckoned before God as one of the people of the divine presence.  BH10563


Act thou according to what hath been sent down in My Most Holy Book.  BH11233

Say: All by His leave do act according to what God hath ordained of the religion.  BB00004

Our Most Holy Book. Verily it hath been sent down from the heaven of the Will of your Lord   BH07425

The wearing of silk and the use of gold and silver is permitted. Congregational prayer is not permitted.  BB00468

Through Our laws the edifice of the Cause hath been made firm and every lofty house hath been raised up.   BH06737

I have sent down the measures of all things in the number of the letter Ya of the Unity, that you may be thankful.  BB00020

this greatest bounty and mightiest grace depends on that which hath been revealed in God's Book of commands and laws  BH08485

act in accordance with what We have sent down in the Most Holy Book. By the life of God! It is verily a perspicuous Book  BH09045

Hold fast unto that which hath been sent down of the laws from the presence of God, the Single, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH09351

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the Kingdom of divine ordinances of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them!  BB00033

This is one of the stringent and inescapable commandments to neglect which would draw down the wrathful indignation of Almighty God.  AB03494


The Book that abrogates all previous scriptures and books is the Most Holy Book, which is the foundation of the Preserved Tablet of the Covenant  AB01009

Concerning what you wrote about the Fast - the Fast remains as it was, that is, the Fast of the Bayan, as explicitly mentioned in the Kitab-i-Aqdas.  BH00170

It is incumbent upon everyone to seek medical treatment and to follow the doctor's instructions, for this is in compliance with the divine ordinance  AB11479

Some have followed the commandments, while others have remained occupied with their own desires and deprived and veiled from that which was ordained by God.  BH03542

Beware lest ye cast behind your backs the bounds of God. Act ye according to that which ye have been commanded by the True One, the Knower of things unseen   BH04727

Follow ye My laws for love of My beauty. The souls that have turned to God and are steadfast must act in accordance with whatsoever hath been revealed in God's Book   BH02375

This world is likened unto the ocean; the law and teachings of God is the ship; the mate is the covenant; the Captain is God; and the seashore is the kingdom of Abha.  ABU3498

He confesseth to what He hath revealed of commandments and laws for the protection of all peoples and their attainment unto the most exalted summit and the ultimate goal.  BH10940


and hath informed all of the Most Holy Book which hath been sent down from the sacred Kingdom. Blessed is he who holdeth fast unto it and woe unto those who remain veiled from it.   BH06914

There is no doubt that the divine commandments have ever been the cause of salvation for all peoples. Blessed is the one who hath pondered the divine ordinances and acted upon them.   BH07854

and commanded them in the Book with that which would draw them near to a most praiseworthy sanctuary of holiness, and forbade them from all that would veil them from the beauty of God   BH09441

The laws of Baha'u'llah are the unchangeable, organic laws of the Universal House of Justice. They are the very foundation upon which the structure of additional legislation is built.   ABU2677

That which hath been sent down from the heaven of God's Will hath been and shall ever be the cause and means of the progress of the people of the world and the salvation of all therein.   BH09741

Then grant them the sweetness of Thy commandments and Thy laws. Know thou with certainty that Thou dost not command anyone save that which benefits him in all the worlds of Thy creation.  BH07128

It is not for anyone to interpret except to take its rulings from the places God has made the repositories of His judgment. God does not accept any deed from anyone except what He has commanded and willed   BB00518

Since, however, this matter is connected with the Law of God, this servant cannot breathe a word. Wherefore this servant cannot say aught, for it would contravene the express prescription of the Law of God.  AB05537

And in these days the Kitab-i-Aqdas has been revealed from the holy heaven - blessed is he who looks into it and ponders what has been sent down of the verses of his Lord, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH01615

In recent years, a number of the loved ones have inquired about certain divine ordinances... Therefore the mighty Tablet which is in truth the cause of the order of the world and the life of nations was sent down   BH01919

Were it not contrary to the Law of God, I would have kissed the hand of my would-be murderer and would have bequeathed him an inheritance. But what can be done, as the binding decree of the Book does not permit it  BHU0045

Then command the people to observe what We have sent down from Our holy dominion in Our Most Holy Book, that they may act according to what hath been revealed therein of the ordinances of thy Lord, the All-Knowing.  BH02671

In these days the Most Exalted Pen is occupied at all times, morning and evening, night and day, despite what hath befallen it of tribulations and trials. From the holy heaven the Most Holy Book is being sent down   BH03241

The obliteration of books, holy war, and the seizure of possessions have all been forbidden in this Revelation. This is a bounty that from the beginning of the world until now hath neither been seen nor manifested.  BH08524

Gather them, then, together around this Divine Law, the covenant of which Thou hast established with all Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers, and Whose ordinances Thou hast written down in Thy Tablets and Thy Scriptures.   BH01438

The concept of law is ancient. Just as God and His creation have always co-existed, so too have humankind and law. At most, the establishment and execution of laws have ever been confined to the limitations of a given era.  ABU3711

We have forbidden all that saddeneth hearts, and commanded the people of Baha to do that which bringeth joy to the hearts of all created things. Thus hath the decree been ordained from the presence of Him Who is the All-Wise Commander.  BH09125

O people! Spread not corruption in the land, and enter not houses save by permission. This is that which ye have been commanded in the Tablets. He, verily, is witness over all things. Beware lest ye wrongfully consume the substance of others.  BH01847

The law of God is the remedy for every ill because divine law derives from the requirements of the realities of things...Therefore God must establish the law, since law comes from essential relationships that arise from the requirements between things   ABU1298

Before the dawning of the Sun of divine ordinances, no one bore any obligation, but after Its rising all must hold fast to the cord of His command and act according to that which hath been sent down from the heaven of the Divine Will as a token of grace.  BH04166


However, ordinances and laws have also been revealed in Ishraqat, Tajalliyat, Tarazat, the Words of Paradise, and other Tablets. All that was mentioned should be given to His Excellency the Ambassador, along with the Tablet of Haydar-'Ali, upon him be My glory and My salutation.  BH05904

"How is he enabled to free himself from these vices: He can render this service unto himself and then unto others through the influence of the Divine Law. The Divine Law warns man from falling into these black pitfalls and yawning precipices and frees him from the fetters of self."  ABU1737

However, should anyone venture forth after the supreme prohibition, his deed will never be accepted, and should he enter the Most Great Sanctuary he hath been and shall remain deprived, inasmuch as his harm extendeth to the very Root of the Divine Tree and the Branches of the Lordly Tree.  BH03802


As for what thou desired regarding the derivative laws, take all that thou hast understood from Our allusions, and concerning that which thy knowledge encompasseth not, act according to what hath been revealed in the traditions to the utmost degree. We have not neglected anything in the Book.  BB00031

The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is  the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of  His Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who  representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His  Cause and the world of creation.  Whoso achieveth this  duty hath attained unto all good; and whoso is deprived  thereof hath gone astray, though he be the author of  every righteous deed.  It behoveth every one who  reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of  transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him  Who is the Desire of the world.  These twin duties are  inseparable.  Neither is acceptable without the other.    Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Source of  Divine inspiration.  BH00001

And as for what thou didst write regarding the transgression of the servants and their rebellion against the bounds of God and their turning away from what was ordained in the Book, write for them a tract on the laws and send it to them, that they may remember and not transgress the bounds of God  BH02137

They whom God hath endued with insight will readily recognize that the precepts laid down by God constitute the highest means for the maintenance of order in the world and the security of its peoples. The seas of Divine wisdom and Divine utterance have risen under the breath of the breeze of the All-Merciful.  BH00001

The perfect Manifestation commands therefore: Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not give false testimony. Thou shalt not bend the law. Beyond that our Holy Book also forbids so-called holy war (religious war), it forbids separation on the basis of legal impurity.  ABU0429

However, this prayer is not obligatory, since obligatory ordinances and binding commands are those which have issued from the Supreme Pen or are established by the Universal House of Justice. We are commanded, not commanders; we are bound, not binders. This is the truth of God's Law and the foundation of God's religion.  AB10956

The ordinances of God have been sent down from the heaven of His most august Revelation. All must diligently observe them. Man's supreme distinction, his real advancement, his final victory, have always depended, and will continue to depend, upon them. Whoso keepeth the commandments of God shall attain everlasting felicity.  BH07535

Concerning what you wrote about someone from Europe who had come seeking to learn of this community's claim, laws and fundamental purpose - this was presented at the Divine Throne. His word, exalted be His majesty: O physician! The laws were revealed in those days but We did not send them forth - a wisdom from Our presence. It is not permitted that he whom you mentioned in your letter should become acquainted with them, for We see the days in travail. Verily He is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. When the time cometh, We shall send them forth in truth as a grace from Our presence to all the worlds.  BH01773

The Law of God is like medicine - the physician treats according to what is required, not regretting previous treatments. Today there may be bile requiring bile medicine, tomorrow phlegm requiring phlegm medicine, and the next day excess blood requiring bloodletting. The skilled physician treats the patient according to their condition.  ABU0367

In these days the Most Holy Book has been sent down from the heaven of the All-Merciful's will. In it is that which brings joy to eyes, gladdens hearts, and causes spirits to soar. Blessed are those souls who gaze upon it with the eye of insight and ponder the sweetness of God's verses and what is concealed therein of the pearls of knowledge and wisdom.   BH02589

By God! His Law is a fortress unto you, could ye but understand. Verily, He hath no purpose therein save to benefit the souls of His servants, but, alas, the generality of mankind remain heedless thereof. Cling ye to the cord of God's laws, and follow not those who have turned away from the Book, for verily they have opposed God, the Mighty, the Beloved.  BH11793

If they are found in cities and villages, a crier must make one proclamation and inform the people of that city or village. If the owner is found, they shall return it and collect the crier's fee. Otherwise, they shall wait nineteen days. If the owner is not found, it reverts to the finder. And if it occurs in the wilderness, its limit is set at two units in the Book of God.  BH10405


It hath been enjoined upon you to purify your means of sustenance and other such things through payment of Zakat. Thus hath it been prescribed in this exalted Tablet by Him Who is the Revealer of verses. We shall, if it be God's will and purpose, set forth erelong the measure of its assessment. He, verily, expoundeth whatsoever He desireth by virtue of His own knowledge, and He, of a truth, is Omniscient and All-Wise.  BH00001

At the beginning of the Cause, God - glorified be His majesty - regarded acceptance alone, for before the revelation of divine ordinances and laws, He revealed and cast forth the Word. Whosoever accepted it without hesitation attained unto all good. But after the heaven of divine decree was raised up and the sun of the Cause shone forth, it became binding and obligatory upon all to hold fast unto it and act according to it.   BH04561

By the life of God and His Cause, no law or practice has been or is more exalted, more excellent, more beauteous, more perfect, more complete and more glorious than the law of the Messenger of God. Let not the tradition "The delight of mine eye is in prayer" escape thy notice, and fix before thine eyes the standard "Prayer is the pillar of religion."  BH00701

Concerning the question about shaving the head, which was forbidden in the Kitab-i-Aqdas but commanded in the Surih of Pilgrimage - His exalted Word - all are today bound by the Kitab-i-Aqdas and whatever is revealed therein is the Divine decree amongst the servants, though shaving of the head hath been pardoned for those who visit the House. Today, such actions as do not cause commotion among the people should be performed by all.  BH03105

The laws of God, such as fasting, obligatory prayer and the like, as well as His counsels regarding virtues, good deeds and proper conduct, must be carried out everywhere to the extent possible, unless some insurmountable obstacle or some great danger presents itself or it runneth counter to the dictates of wisdom. For indolence and laxity hinder the outpourings of love from the clouds of divine mercy, and people will thus remain deprived.  AB12002

We have revealed in the prison a Book named at the Throne the Most Holy Book, wherein We have laid down the laws and adorned it with the commandments of thy Lord, Who commandeth all in the heavens and earth. Say: O people, hold fast unto it and observe what hath been sent down therein of the wondrous laws of your Lord, the Forgiving, the Generous. It profiteth you in this world and the next, and purifieth you from that which beseemeth you not.  BH03380

Baha'u'llah, before revealing the Most Holy Book, married several wives, according the former law and to supreme wisdom; but after the Book had been revealed, its Word was observed. Furthermore, certain questions concern specially the Blessed Beauty and have no reference to others. In the same way, Christ alone had the privilege of forgiving sins. And when He prevented the carrying out of the law, saying: anyone who deserve no punishment, may arise and punish the adulterers, this was His special privilege, and no other could do it.  AB08641

He shineth from the Horizon of the Heaven of true Knowledge with Wisdom and Utterance! O Hasan! Hearken unto the Call of Husayn Who hath been incarcerated in the Prison Fortress of 'Akka by reason of that which the hands of the heedless have wrought. If one were to question them, "by what reason have ye imprisoned Him?", they would reply: "Verily, He hath come with a new Shariah and this new Shariah doth not accord with the Law under which we have been. To this matter testifieth our Book which is called the Qur'an, a Book that is from God, the Lord of all mankind."   BH03572


It is incumbent upon every man who leaves his home to state the duration of his journey. Any period he may state should be abided by. Should he return at the end of the period, he has, verily, fulfilled his promise and has obeyed the command of his Lord. Should he fail to return at the end of the period, having some excuse, viz. some obstacle preventing him from returning, he should communicate this news and should make every effort to return. Should he fail to return at the end of the period without having sent news, it is incumbent upon the wife to wait for nine months, after which she is free to marry again, if she so desires. The wife should receive maintenance during this fixed period.  BH07008


Know thou that We have adorned the heaven of knowledge with the stars of commandments and laws. Blessed is he who hath recognized and acted according to that which was commanded by the Ancient Sender-down.   BH01051

The implementation of laws should be to a degree that does not cause fear and anxiety and disorder and separation, until such time as the divine Cause is proclaimed. After the proclamation, all the laws of the Kitab-i-Aqdas must be fully implemented.  AB02992

Regarding Zakat, We have commanded that they should act as was revealed in the Qur'an.   BH00984

Concerning what thou didst write about the Zakat, the Zakat on garden produce is after the deduction of expenses, that is, the garden expenses must be paid, and whatever remains thereafter is subject to Zakat.  AB11348

According to the Command, before detailing the minimum taxable limits of things, they should act according to what was revealed in the Qur'an - meaning that for whatever is subject to zakat, they should act according to what was revealed in the Qur'an.  BH11399

Know that for the fifth (khums) among people, half is the right of the assured believers in this Cause [from the descendants of Hashim] and half is the right of the Imam, peace be upon him. And it is obligatory upon its owner to deliver it to whom God has appointed to His Cause, or to make provision in his property until the Day when God takes His right.  BB00031

These ordinances concerning livestock - camels, cattle and sheep - are binding when they graze in open pastures by God's bounty. However, if they are fed by their owner through purchase or other means, no zakat is due on them. If their circumstances vary, the ruling reverts to the days of plenty after scarcity. No zakat is due from the owner of camels and cattle used for working the land according to the Book's ordinance, but otherwise it is obligatory except if one trades with them and profits, and if loss occurs it remains obligatory.  BB00039

If man observes the divine verses with the eye of fairness and reflects, he will find each passage to be the dawning-place of laws. Reflect upon this blessed verse wherein He says: "Accept thou what is easy, and enjoin what is just, and turn away from the ignorant." And likewise He says: "Be generous as God has been generous to thee." All laws and principles that are the cause of the world's order and the nations' tranquility can be deduced and derived from these two blessed verses.  BH00920
