

Mulla Baqir, one of the Letters of the Living, attained the presence of Baha'u'llah.  ABU3700

And if ye obey God and then the Letters of the Living, then ye shall be guided within your own selves.  BB00004

"Nineteen days are according to 19 'Letters of the Living' which is composed of the Bab and 18 others."   ABU3071

"verily Muhammad is My servant and My Messenger, and verily the Letters of the Living are My friends, and likewise the Twin Gates are My doors"  BB00204

The Letters of Truth are the Letters of the Living. These are they who believe in God, deliver the messages of their Lord, and are assured in Him.  BB00004

As for the number twenty-one, it refers to the number of the unity of the Exalted Bab and the Letters of the Living.   AB01906

The first to believe in the Primal Point, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, was the revered Mulla Husayn-i-Bushrui, the Babu'l-Bab, not the Quddus.  AB05514

The Exalted Herald (the Bab) says to one of the Letters of the Living that you comprehend Him, but verily the Cause is mighty, mighty. God willing, may you be occupied in the nights and days with the remembrance of the Lord of all beings, and be steadfast on His path, arise in His service, and speak His praise.  BH09572

And one of the Letters of the Primary Living One, the Letter of thy self, shall remember thee at the time when these verses are being written down from God, the Lord of all worlds   BB00164

Therefore, O God, do Thou send down upon him and upon the Letters of the Living and upon all his names and likenesses that which befitteth the loftiness of Thy sanctity and the exaltation of Thy grace.  BB00308

And upon the Letters of the Living and upon those who seek shelter beneath the shade of that Tree until the Day when Thou shalt renew it through the renewal of Thy light and raise it up through the manifestation of Thy creation   BB00417

The twenty-four blessed souls who are the guides of the Greatest Name - nineteen are the number of the Letters of the Living, which includes the Primal Point (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) along with eighteen Letters of the Living.  AB04093

Regarding the twenty-four chosen ones mentioned in the Holy Book and discussed in 'Abdu'l-Baha's Some Answered Questions - nineteen of them were the Point of Truth and Letters of the Living who have passed away. The other five remain unknown until now.  AB01563

In this wondrous cycle there are the eighteen Letters of the Living and the sacred person of the Exalted One, which total nineteen persons, and likewise five other holy and blessed souls whose mention wisdom does not now permit - it will later become manifest and apparent.   AB01067

"Thou art indeed to be numbered with those Letters that have excelled every other Letter. Wherefore thou hast been singled out by God through the tongue of thy Lord, the Bab, the brightness of Whose countenance hath enveloped, and will continue to envelop, the whole of creation."  BH01507

Eighteen souls must, in the beginning, spontaneously and of their own accord, accept Me and recognize the truth of My Revelation. Unwarned and uninvited, each of these must seek independently to find Me. And when their number is complete, one of them must needs be chosen to accompany Me on My pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina.  BBU0009

Of this number Mulla Husayn of Bushruyih, Mirza Ahmad of Azghand, Mulla Sadiq Muqaddas [the Holy], Shaykh Abu-Turab of Ishtihard, Mulla Yusuf of Ardibil, Mulla Jalil of Urumiyyih, Mulla Mihdi of Kand, Shaykh Sa'id the Indian, Mulla 'Ali of Bastam, and the like of these came out unto Him and spread themselves through all parts of Persia.  AB00003

For they consist of 14 sacred Souls, and the Hidden, Well-Guarded Name, Whose 4 letters are called by various names including the Four Gates, the Lights of the Throne, and the Bearers of creation, provision, death, and life. Together They comprise the number of the word the Living (hayy=18), Who are the most near Names unto God. All others besides Them are guided through Their guidance, inasmuch as God hath proceeded the creation of the Bayan from Them, and hath ordained that unto Them they shall return.  BB00001

The names of the Letters of the Living are as follows: [list of 18 names]. The greatness and glory of most of these Letters of the Living resides solely in the fact that they professed their faith at the very beginning. Among them and in terms of importance, a few souls occupy a primary position-Mulla Husayn, Quddus, and Tahirih; a few other blessed souls occupy a secondary position; and the rest are honoured solely for having believed in the very beginning-two of them even, like Judas Iscariot, recanted their faith later.  AB00046

By the testimony of the Point, the Letters of the Bayan are infinitely greater and more excellent than the Imams of the Qur'an.  BH04609

It is most clear that the Primal Point, exalted be His grandeur, made no mention except of the Letters of the Unity and the Mirrors. He designated the Letters of Unity as the fourteen returned proofs of the Qur'an and the other four from the four gates, and named these souls the Letters of the Living, giving them precedence over all who are in the Bayan. After this rank, He mentioned the Mirrors. Observe that in none of the Tablets did He set a limit to the Mirrors, as He states that if infinite mirrors were to face each other, the light of the sun would be reflected and manifest in all of them, and after their turning away, He states, that bounty is withdrawn. He gave the example of the visible mirror and the visible sun, stating that whosoever wishes to understand should observe the visible sun and the visible mirrors. He removed all Qur'anic limitations, such that it became clear to all who had vision that these people had nothing of truth in their hands, and whatever they had was contrary to it. Now I shall present some matters to you so that, God willing, you may act with insight. For instance, first, if anyone claimed that the Qa'im must be born, they considered such a person an infidel and deemed his execution necessary and obligatory. Second, His existence in Jabulqa and Jabulsa, and likewise they rejected anyone who denied this belief. Third, similarly regarding the seal of prophethood, they firmly held that absolutely no one would ever come after, and if anyone believed that a Manifestation would come, they considered him an infidel, rejected, and among the people of the fire. Fourth, what they mentioned regarding the resurrection, considering its deniers as infidels. Fifth, the mention of the vision of God, considering those who affirmed it as infidels. Sixth, the mention of the bridge, about which they held such vain beliefs. Seventh, the mention of resurrection, wherein they all believed that decayed bones must rise from literal graves, and they considered [its deniers] as infidels, and similar matters that they held. You observe that in none of these sayings were these people truthful. There is no doubt that you yourself confirm that they all spoke of these things unknowingly, as it became clear in the Manifestation of the Point of the Bayan, may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him, that all they held was contrary to God's Cause, as if these people had not a single truth in their possession, for they mentioned all these matters unknowingly while considering them true and [their denier] as rejected. Now you yourself confirm that they had not understood any of these matters, and what they were saying was pure falsehood and sheer calumny. Similarly, compare the rest of the statements of this group to the aforementioned matters and keep the heart pure and sanctified from all things. Although today the leaders of the Bayan have cast people into such delusions that, I swear by the Truth, no nations among the nations of the past have ever been tainted by such delusions. And they are now occupied with proofs that even the lowliest among the people of the Furqan (Qur'an) had used as evidence, and they pride themselves on this, hoping that through these imaginary utterances they might deprive the people of the Chosen Beauty.  BH00097
