"God hath made death a door to His grace, yet most men know it not."  BH06844

On the Day of Manifestation, the trumpet was sounded and the bugle was blown. Both the assured and the doubtful were gathered together, but the assured one awakened and became conscious, became aware of death and life, crossed over the bridge, and entered the paradise of sanctification. But the heedless remained unaware of both death and life, and "they perceive not when they shall be raised." AB10105

Soon will the messenger of death come; then shall no one find escape. Seest thou any protector save God?   BH03185

He is the One Who causeth you to die and then giveth you life, and there is no God but God, the Lord of all worlds.  BB00004

Whoso hath tasted of this Fountain hath attained unto everlasting Life, and whoso hath refused to drink therefrom is even as the dead.  BH02747

The dead are they who have not been quickened today by the breezes of the All-Merciful and have not drunk the choice wine of verses from a wondrous cup.   BH03554

Whoso draweth nigh and drinketh, verily he is of the people of Baha before God, the Lord of Names; and whoso is debarred, he is assuredly among the dead.  BH09545

The inevitable death of the physical body is described through the metaphor of oil being depleted from a lamp: "after it has been burnt and consumed, the lamp will assuredly be extinguished."  AB05420

Every soul who today turns to the Luminary of the horizon of inner meanings is accounted among the living before the Divine Countenance, and whoso remains deprived is reckoned among the dead.   BH08742

Ye were as dead, knowing naught of the knowledge of the Book in truth and through truth. He it is Who created you, then sustained you, then causeth you to die, then giveth you life as He willeth.  BB00002

Will anything on earth profit anyone when death overtaketh him? Nay, by the Lord of all worlds! Blessed is he unto whom death is the ultimate annihilation and the beginning of his immortality through God  BH08891

Suppose a man is ill and dies, not having summoned a physician. Had his time come to die, or would he with proper care have recovered? There are two kinds of death. One is preordained, and the other is dependent upon many things.  ABU2298

And whoso hath attained unto this, verily he liveth in Our exalted Kingdom and his mention shall endure through the eternity of God, the Lord of the worlds. And whoso is deprived, he is indeed among the dead though he be among those who speak.  BH06534

He who hath attained in the days of God, verily he is of the essence of creation before the Truth, and he who hath hesitated is accounted among the dead...Think not that they who are heedless today are living - they are dead in the Book of your Lord  BH05840

Since the foundation of life, through divine power, is the connection and combination of these essences, inevitably one day it must change to separation and dissolution must occur. Therefore no soul has deliverance from death, and none can find escape from this whirlpool of mortality.  AB01287

That is why Christ referred to those who were heedless of God and denied His truth as dead, even though to outward seeming they were alive; for in relation to the faithful they were indeed dead, blind, deaf and dumb. That is what Christ meant when He said, Let the dead bury their dead.  AB02618

no matter if the people are living in appearance, yet they may be dead in reality. That is why His Holiness Christ, sayeth in the Gospels: "Let the dead bury the dead!" Praise be to God! that you have found eternal life from among the dead; that is, you have heard the call of the divine Kingdom, are attracted to the Heavenly Countenance and have turned your faces toward the Center of the Light of Truth.  AB09123

Notwithstanding this the life of every organism, no matter how perfect, comes to an end. For example the life of an ant in comparison to the life of man is short, yet the ant, were it endowed with human intelligence would think that man lives eternally. Similarly these stars, these mountains, these seas shall come to an end. For each one of them a prescribed life is destined. It has a beginning and an ending.  BHU0013

These outward miracles are of no importance to the followers of truth. For example, if a blind man is made to see, in the end he will again lose his sight, for he will die and be deprived of all his senses and faculties. Thus, causing the blind to see is of no lasting importance, since the faculty of sight is bound to be lost again in the end. And if a dead body be revived, what is gained thereby, since it must die again?  AB00381

There are two kinds of destined time of death: one is the inevitable destined time, and the other is the suspended destined time. These prayers, supplications, pleading, seeking of healing and protection are for preservation from the suspended destined time, not from the appointed and inevitable time. Otherwise, no soul would hasten from this mortal world to the eternal realm, for whenever someone falls ill, either they themselves would pray or others would pray for them and they would be healed.   AB01385

Therefore ponder this blessed verse. If by death was meant physical death, and by life physical life, then the judgment of death and life would not apply to Hamza, for outwardly he was alive with elemental, physical life. Rather, what is meant by death in this noble verse and divine word is spiritual death and the death of the heart. For when Hamza (may God be pleased with him) believed in God, His verses and His Messenger Whom He sent with truth, he became alive with the life of faith and drank from the cup of the Living, the Life-Giving One, from the spring of certitude.   BH00330

"The meaning of Christ's saying was not that the unbelievers become absolutely annihilated; the meaning of Christ is that the life of those, who reject Him is as non-existent, compared with the life of those who accept Him."  ABU0681

Although the life of the creature is called life, in reality, compared to the life of the children (of the Kingdom) it is not life; on the contrary it is death. For instance, a mineral substance contains life, but this life compared to the life of the vegetable is death; in like manner the life of the vegetable compared to the life of an animal is death; in like manner the life of human beings compared to the life of the children of the Kingdom is death.  AB07834
