The Light is imprisoned in darkness  BH10923

the light of truth has shone forth   AB04838

the light shining in the glass of ascension  AB04580

the light of hidden favors has shone forth   AB06237

When there is no light, there is darkness.   ABU2849

having lit brilliant lamps in the darkness of night   AB06509

Lead them from the dark world to the world of light.   AB06275

A home without children is like a home without light.  ABU3563

Their traces shall appear and their lights shall shine.  AB11527

transforming the darkness of demons into celestial light   AB07578

When thou art illumined the darkness will not affect thee  AB05095

Light the lamp of recognition in the glass of heart and soul   AB06656

You hastened from the world of darkness to the world of light   AB04829

the brilliant rays of the Sun of Truth cause blindness of sight  AB03685

dispel the darkness of estrangement, diffuse the light of unity  AB09104

and by the light whereby the faces of Thy creation were illumined   BH09754

When the Light of His favor is shed upon us the darkness is fled.   ABU3110

Otherwise it will be extinguished and darkness will again prevail.  AB12100

scatter the forces of darkness and disperse the gathering of the base   AB03023

You will see a dimness on the faces, like the letting down of a veil.   ABU3182

The effulgences of the Sun of Reality have illumined both East and West.  AB06177

that the good may be distinguished from the evil, and light from darkness  BH07222

Thus have We illumined the heaven of utterance with the Sun of knowledge.  BH06238

"The light has blazed forth, the darkness of night has been dispelled..."  AB04927

darkness shall be dispelled by a brilliant dawn shining upon the horizons  AB06511

The non-existence of light is darkness. Darkness is only the lack of light.  ABU2521

The light of divine favor is shining and will shine from century to century.  ABU1015

I deliver those who are in darkness and guide them into the realm of Light.   ABU3030

in that village the light of truth shone forth and the sun of guidance arose   AB11983

That dust and darkness has vanished, and the favors of the Lord are complete.   AB05663

through which all darkness hath been dispelled and all light hath dawned forth   BH11087

Verily He is the Lamp of Guidance unto all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH11475

dispel the thick darkness arising from error through the light of divine guidance  AB06451

Darkness is the absence of light, there could be no lower plane in that respect.   ABU3064

These souls will give such light that it will dispel the darkness of the horizons.  AB01368

deliver him from the darkness of gloom, and make him like the bright morning light   AB06470

day by day thou mayest become more luminous...and thou changest darkness into light  AB11774

"though dark in its outer being, its inner being is light upon light, upon all light"  BH11210

the effulgence of light will prove fatal to the thick darkness of night and dispel it  AB10569

I hope that all may become bright as the candle through the light of the love of God.  AB04430

The darkness covering the face of the earth will not disappear save through this Light.   ABU2568

Its light illumines the world and its appearance is the most luminous sun of the Kingdom   AB00704

He is the Light of the World! ... and are radiant and bright from the light of God's sun   AB03210

This darkness will pass away and the illumination of God's Kingdom will enlighten hearts.   AB01754

whose eyes were brightened by beholding the manifest light shining from the dawn of certitude   AB04926

I pray that this darkness may be dispelled and the light of the Kingdom may envelop the world.   ABU2581

Darkness and heedlessness have surrounded creation - spread rays and lights upon the horizons!   AB04024

to scatter the forces of error and darkness through the lights of the Dawning-Place of Oneness   AB03192

They shall become brilliant lamps and radiant lights shining forth from the Sinai of manifestation.  AB08756

Thus existence was illumined by the brilliant light...and souls were brightened by the shining star   AB11914

When they moved, the light shone forth and spread across the face of the sky, becoming brilliant stars.  BH02313

I liken you to the pupil of the eye. You are black and it is black, yet it becomes the focus of light.   ABU3487

your spirits lanterns of guidance, and your faces stars by which the veils of darkness are rent asunder   AB05062

O Divine providence, shed a ray from the Sun of Truth upon this gathering that it may become illumined.   ABU3567

For example darkness is evil. It is the absence of light. Whenever there is no light there is darkness.   ABU2786

Darkness hath enveloped the whole earth, and Thy tokens are ready to be blotted out throughout Thy realm.  BH03389

Then out of this dark soil, which is the world of nature, variegated flowers and fragrant tulips will grow.  ABU1393

"What of the dark night, when the Sun is not shining?" "The darkness of night is past, the Sun has risen."   ABU3085

The star of happiness is in every heart, but we have to disperse the clouds, so that it can shine radiantly   ABU2691

The darkest night has encompassed all. The loved ones of the All-Merciful must each become like a lamp aflame  AB10131

"The clouds of vain imaginings have dissipated and the Sun of the horizons has shone forth in utmost beauty."  AB12101

Cast a ray from the lights of Your oneness and transform the darkness of estrangement into the light of unity.  AB00894

Nonexistence is darkness, existence is light. Light comes and darkness goes, not that darkness becomes light.   ABU2254

uses metaphors of light and illumination throughout; "like pure niches and luminous crystal, light upon light"   AB03818

Consider how the darkness of error has environed all the regions and how the world of morality is full of gloom.  AB04351

The seeing ones had their eyes brightened while the bats found their abode and dwelling in the cave of darkness   AB05822

At night, when a lamp is brought into a room, all things at once become manifest, and such is the power of love.   ABU1391

The power of divine revelation has always overcome delusions and the lights of inspiration have dispelled darkness  AB04264

this dark world will become a luminous realm and this abode of nothingness will become a radiant world of existence   AB04249

from the brilliance of your stellar light the circle of the equator, nay rather the temperate zone, may be illumined   AB07395

you should become like two celestial figures, bright and luminous, and shine forth in the zenith of the All-Merciful   AB06180

The Sun of Reality is in the height of its power and majesty but they prefer dark rooms and the light of the candles.  ABU2891

"What can earthly power do against celestial might? And what can contingent darkness accomplish against divine light?"  AB05730

"shall dispel the darkness of obscurity with brilliant rays and a lamp that was luminous with the light of acceptance"  AB05424

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the Kingdom of the light of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them.  BB00004

the lights have shone forth from the Kingdom of the Unseen, and the rays of that effulgence have encompassed all regions  AB11054

they have closed their eyes to the lights and walked in the darkness of a pitch-black night in this age of illumination   AB06646

In the Kingdom of Abha, there is light upon light. The darkness of sorrow and pain is banished forever from that region.  ABU2621

"The glowing flame is a great calamity for the thief of the dark night... Every bat will flee from the life-bestowing sun"  AB03106

The light of guidance hath dawned and the morn of bounty hath broken. The Sun of Truth hath shed its rays upon all regions.  AB12337

The gate of heaven hath been opened, and the ocean of meeting hath surged, yet most of the people of creation perceive it not  BH07059

The world is very dark and the only light which is capable to penetrate through this darkness is the Light of the Love of God  ABU2779

Consider what a difference there is between that which shines in the night and this which is brilliant and radiant in the day!  AB08581

The Bahai Grand Army consists of the invisible angels of the Supreme Concourse. We are fighting against the forces of darkness.  ABU1806

Bestow a ray and grant an effulgence that the darkness of night may vanish and the radiance of light become clear and manifest.  AB10921

And whenever I seek to illuminate them with the lights of Thy countenance to deliver them from the darkness of their own selves   BH09563

and the divine illumination may dispel the pitch-black darkness of the horizons through the beauty of the Beloved of the horizons  AB03765

May they dispel these darknesses--these darknesses of heedlessness of truth, these darknesses of attachment to this mortal world.   ABU1836

The limbs of darkness have trembled at this light shining from the horizon of this station...The darkest night hath been illumined  BH03173

Be luminous, so that you may bestow eternal illumination upon the world of humanity and dispel the sorrowful darkness of humankind  AB10929

suspended the threads of darkness upon the sphere of light, whereby Thou hast adorned the page of light with the darkness of night   BH08601

Praise be to God, the dark clouds of oppression have dispersed. It is hoped that the lights of justice and fairness will shine forth   AB03390

Nothing can resist this spread except a conquering, pure, sanctified and heavenly force, for darkness can only be dispelled by light   AB12091

Thou hast lit the lamp of guidance in the glass of thy heart and witnessed the light of grace from the dawning-place of the All-Merciful.  AB07488

This thy servant hath abandoned superstitions, emerged from darkness and hath entered into Thy Light which hath shone forth to the world!  AB06008

Today the whispers of Satan are evident and the breezes of the All-Merciful are wafting. Cast off the former and take hold of the latter.   BH01535

How many a darkness hath been illumined by the splendors of the Face, and how many a light hath been veiled through following its desires!   BH07832

When the light of truth shone forth from the Pole of the world... and the darkness of ignorance was transformed by the light of knowledge.   AB06319

When the candle of guidance is kindled within the glass of the heart, it dispels the darkness of error that stems from worldly limitations.   AB05296

Look not upon the sedition and its darkness, but rather gaze upon the Sun from which nothing has withheld It, and be illumined by Its lights   BH09605

shunning darknesses above darknesses, hold fast and cling to manifestation above manifestation, radiance above radiance, and light above light  BH01905

The darkness of oppression hath encompassed the world. God willing, ye shall not in this darkness be deprived of the lights of the divine Day.   BH10001

so that the dangerous darkness of ignorant prejudice may vanish through the light of the Sun of Reality, this gloomy world may become luminous   AB00388

"The blind eye finds naught from the shining sun's rays save heat." They have eyes but do not see with them, and ears but do not hear with them.   AB01940

so that the dark ones may become illumined, the defective perfect, the earthly ones, heavenly; extinct ones enlightened; the satanic ones angelic   ABU2390

Strange it is that those who are veiled are overcome by the darkness of blindness, and those who are concealed are hidden behind veils of concealment.  AB08749

The slumber of idle fancies hath prevented the world from beholding the lights of truth and perceiving the effulgences of the Day-Star of divine favor.   BH00673

The Sun of Reality has shone forth, the gates of the Kingdom have opened, divine bestowals have become manifest, heavenly outpourings have encompassed all   ABU1925

the dayspring hath smiled with the lights of certitude, while the people remain in layers of darkness one above another, blind of sight and deaf of hearing  AB09078

until the darkness of night becomes day and "We have made the sign of the night to pass away and We have made the sign of the day manifest" becomes evident   AB03983

Can darkness ever obliterate the light or is it not light that overcomes the darkness? What vain imaginings are these! What foolish thoughts of ignorant minds!  AB09470

If thou wouldst direct thy gaze to the most exalted horizon, thou wouldst witness the lights of the Kingdom of Abha that have illumined the horizons of creation.  AB07806

That divine trust is a brilliant light, while these natural emanations are the darkness of the furnace...enabling it to overcome the darkness of the natural world  AB04068

so that the rays of the Sun of Truth may ere long illumine all the continents and islands of the globe, and the dark clouds of prejudice and ignorance be dispelled   ABU3268

The Sun of Truth hath not shone forth from the Horizon of Oneness with such radiance that Its rays could be concealed by the veils of the people of contingent being.   AB06352

From the Dawning-Place of Lights, such brilliant rays struck the window of your heart that the darkness of error was eclipsed and the great light of guidance became manifest.   AB07552

That heart of crystal has, praise be to God, become a lamp of light. And since both knowledge and love have combined within it, light upon light has become manifest and apparent.   AB06669

Darkness cannot face the light, and Satan the loser cannot resist the brilliant meteor, and the filthy dung beetle cannot prevent the sweet fragrance of the Most Glorious Paradise.   AB01782

a mighty host like a devastating flood surges forth from the Supreme Concourse, engaging fiercely in battle with the forces of darkness, plunging into the depths of struggle and combat.   AB11879

It is my earnest prayer, that ye be not like unto this, but rather that ye keep your faces steadfastly turned to the light, so that ye may be as lighted torches in the dark places of life.  ABU0899

I beg of God that this lustrous Brilliancy shine in such wise in the heart of Humanity, and make such a deep and imperishable impression, that the world of darkness be entirely illuminated.   AB05789

Glorified be He in Whose grasp are the kingdoms of lights of the heavens and the earth and what lieth between them. Thou shalt indeed glorify God in the True Faith with a mighty glorification.  BB00004

Glorified be He in Whose grasp lies the kingdom of light of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them. Therefore, on that Day, praise ye God with exalted praise in the true religion.  BB00004

Then ignorance was changed into knowledge--misguidance into guidance, savagery into domesticity--wandering life to civilized life--and their evil to good--until all the nations were submissive to them.   ABU0272

The sun hath risen from the dawning-place of hopes and the dayspring of prosperity, and its rays have enveloped the world. Those possessed of sight beheld those lights...while the blind were deprived  AB10866

The ranks of darkness, like armies of bats, are being routed and scattered by the assault of the forces of light, and the clouds and mists of veils are dissipating and vanishing from the brilliant rays  AB11884

For the darkness of the world of nature is intense; until the light of the Most Glorious Kingdom encompasses all, the bright morn of reality will not shine forth from the darkness of the natural world.  AB04504

They who follow their selfish desires are like bats which cover their faces and hide themselves from the light when it shines upon them. The fire of the love of God will melt away all coldness and frigidity.  AB03438

Is it not suffused with lights? The Candle of the world is bestowing Light upon all Assemblages. Is it not luminous? The True Orb is slowly rising from the Dawning-place of the Most High. Is it not glorious?  AB03580

Soon shalt thou witness its effects from all directions. Verily He is the Ruler over whatsoever He willeth...Neither the clouds nor the veils of those who have disbelieved in the Day of Judgment can prevent it.  BH07088

And glory be upon thee and upon those who have turned toward the Dayspring of the divine exposition in this darkness that hath encompassed the worlds, save whom thy Lord, the Forgiving, the Merciful, hath willed.  BH11807

The sun of the divine sphere has shone forth from the east of love and kindness, casting its light in utmost brilliance upon all the world. The seeing ones became joyful while the blind began to wail and lament.   AB03649

The light of truth hath radiated from the Sun of Divinity to the horizons in such a manner that the East and the West are illumined. But, alas! the blind do not see and the deaf do not hear the divine proclamation.   AB04791

The infinite bounty has manifested with such radiance that it has illumined East and West with the light of reality. One effulgence from the Kingdom of the Luminary of the horizons makes the world bright and radiant  AB06063

Verily, thou shouldst be rejoiced with this Light, which is shining to the Easts of the earth and the Wests thereof, and be illumined thereby, so that thou becomest saved with thy whole being from the gloomy darkness.  AB07715

The darkness of the world of nature has encompassed the kingdom of creation. In these tenebrous darknesses tremendous calamities are hidden for mankind, except those souls who have drawn light from the Sun of Reality.   AB01098

The Sun of Truth has ever risen from the eastern horizon and illumined the world...these dark clouds of war and conflict and imitative prejudices will be dispersed, and the light of truth will illumine both East and West  AB06803

in that city which is often dark because of cloud, mist and smoke, such bright candles (as you) are glowing, whose emanating light is God's guidance, and whose influencing warmth is as the burning Fire of the Love of God   AB03648

Who illuminest the darkness of error with the radiance shining from the kingdom of clemency... The power of Thy forgiveness transmuteth the pitch darkness of transgression into the shining light of the Luminary of bounty.   AB05496

With the lantern of Baha'u'llah in her hand, fearlessly she walks abroad while the night of ignorance is inky dark; the winds of prejudice howling...the powers of darkness surrounding and oriental fanaticism staring in the eyes.  ABU0870

When that brilliant Sun shed its radiance upon the horizons, seeing eyes were illumined, pure realities received the light, and became the dawning-place of mysteries. But the blind were deprived, and the bats were left in despair.  AB08024

When the Star of the Covenant and the radiant Morn shone forth...the Morn of Truth hath been shedding its radiance in the plenitude of its resplendency...The sorry birds of darkness have become the bondslaves of ignominy and torment!  AB12086

The Sun of Truth with one ray rent asunder and destroyed all those veils and shrouds, and shone so brilliantly at the meridian of the heavens that the contingent world became illumined with the lights of the realm of the unconstrained   AB02007

Although today the people are deprived of beholding the lights of the Sun due to the clouds of fancy and imagination, yet ere long the fingers of destiny shall rend asunder the intervening veil and the rays of the Sun shall encompass all   BH08638

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the dominion of the lights of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them! Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the Kingdom of lights of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them.  BB00004

truth hath come and falsehood vanisheth, for falsehood is of short duration" -otherwise, darkness will surround it from all directions and it will be deprived of association with the Supreme Concourse and will remain in the lowest depths   AB00620

Spiritual happiness is light, while sorrow is darkness. This happiness is glad-tidings, while sorrow is disappointment. This happiness is the Kingdom while sorrow is the earthly world. This happiness is life, while sorrow is non-existence.  AB03576

The Light of Truth shineth radiantly in the lamp of Divine Unity and in the niche of Oneness. Its world illuminating rays have been diffused even as the light of the morn to all directions. God is the light of the heavens and of the earth.  AB08039

The light of guidance hath shone forth from the supreme horizon, and the star of eternal glory hath risen from the dawning-place of possibility. It is strange that India, despite its capacity, hath not yet been illumined by this effulgence.  AB09420

For this pitch darkness a dispeller is needed, and for these devastating trials a remover is required. For darkness there can be no dispeller save light, and for the sorrowful darkness of night there can be no remover save the luminous lamp.  AB08850

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the dominion of the lights of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them! Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the dominion of the light of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them!  BB00004

The gardener has enkindled many shining lights. All of a sudden he observes these people are trying to extinguish these lights one by one. He demands of them: 'Why are you doing this?' They say: 'We love darkness. We want to steal and rob men.'  ABU0286

It is night and darkness has encompassed the horizons in all six directions, and this divine bird has illumined and brightened its nest and dwelling place of the heart with the lights of remembrance and thoughts of the All-Merciful's loved ones.  AB07429

Similarly there are some enkindled souls whose very presence in a meeting changes its atmosphere, suffering the people to become truly spiritual, turning their faces towards God; others like unto the black smoke, darken the horizon of the minds.  ABU2349

The Cause of God is the remedy for every disease, the Light which dispels every darkness, the Knowledge that does away with every form of ignorance, the beautiful springtime of Truth that throws back the frosty winter of simulation and falsehood.  ABU1507

The glory shining from the horizon of My tender mercy be upon you and upon those who have turned to God on this Day wherein trembling hath seized the inhabitants of all regions, save those whom God hath protected, the Lord of the Day of Judgment.   BH03208

It is morning and the Sovereign of the East has cast His rays upon plain and wilderness, making all things visible. Although it is a sign of the Sun of Truth, it has no knowledge of things, despite the fact that its lights make all things manifest  AB04442

The material world is gloomy. Praise be to God! thou hast been led to the illumined realm. Darkness hath environed all the inhabitants of the globe, but thou hast found guidance. The eyes are blind; thine eyes became bright by beholding the lights.   AB06918

Glad tidings! Glad tidings! The Morn of Guidance hath dawned. Glad tidings! Glad tidings! The Sun of Truth hath shone forth. Glad tidings! Glad tidings! The Sun of the supreme horizon hath shed its radiance upon all the world with boundless effulgence.  AB03597

such souls as have sought shelter beneath His all embracing Word should themselves become as resplendent stars. They should become scintillating suns that all the lamps of existence may be illumined through these rays that emanate from the divine light   AB06300

The ordeals of this mortal world are like unto a dark night and the Glad-tidings like the brilliant lamps. If mankind live in this darkness without the light of these lamps, unquestionably they will perish through the intensity of grief and affliction.   AB04216

so that by His dawning from the horizon of the world, the intense darkness may be dispelled and the dense clouds over the horizons of the nations may be removed, and the forces of ignorance may be scattered while the angel of knowledge and virtue prevails   AB03561

Man, in the darkness of error, finds naught but grief and gloom. He is ever despairing, sorrowful and heavy-hearted. But when the light of faith shines forth in the realm of the heart, eternal joy appears and the darkness of sorrow and gloom vanishes away.  AB08717

The morn of the bounties of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, hath dawned, risen, shone forth and become manifest from the horizons of creation, and the daybreak hath smiled with the lights of certitude, while the people remain in layers of darkness one above another  AB09078

The East is the dawning-place of lights...The Sun of Truth has ever risen from the eastern horizon and illumined the world...these dark clouds of war and conflict and imitative prejudices will be dispersed, and the light of truth will illumine both East and West  AB06803

By thy life! The Sun of Reality, from the Kingdom of its invisibility, bestoweth its lights and rays upon all horizons. Yet those who are veiled remain behind a dark, gloomy, and pitch-black veil - darkness upon darkness upon darkness - and they find no guidance.  AB09017

Today all the inhabitants of the world are submerged in the darkness of dogmas and religions, sectarian, racial and political prejudices; peradventure, God willing thou mayst become a brilliant star and cause the disappearance of these darknesses from those parts   AB04604

When the Sun of Truth shone forth from the horizon of oneness with an unprecedented luminosity, it illumined all regions. East and West became bright and radiant, and North and South were lit with a brilliant dawn. No darkness remained and no error truly persisted.  AB01021

Shouldst thou kindle a mortal torch, its light would, of necessity, be transient and the circle of thy union lit by a dreary lamp, a spluttering taper. Such material illumination may last until the break of day but by the following dusk it will have been extinguished.  AB07459

This is a Book which guideth all the worlds and from which light shineth forth, visible to those possessed of keen insight, lest anyone go astray after the Light hath shone forth from its Niche with wondrous radiance, illuminating all regions - if ye be aware of this.   BH06319

It is clear and evident that a dead and withered body needs spirit, and the adorning trees of existence only sway with the breeze of grace, and pitch darkness is only dispelled by the dawn of light upon light, and regions only find new life through the advent of spring.  AB11809

O respected friend, you observe how darkness has encompassed everything, therefore a great illumination must appear to dispel this intense darkness. Thus, hope lies in the lights of the dawn of guidance which will again rise from the East and spread across the horizons.  AB05931

My purpose is this: The power of spirituality emanating from the Most Great Name will so affect the world that all the contrary powers of darkness will be obliterated in the dusk of nothingness. This is naught but the light-giving truth. Other than this is manifest error.   AB01961

This earthly realm is sometimes dark and sometimes light, but praise be to God, the world of heart and soul is ever shining and bright through heavenly grace. Glory be to God! The earthly globe is always half light and half dark, but the pure heart and soul are ever luminous.  AB11719

I wish for them this illumination. I desire for them this luminosity; so that they may rejoice the hearts and spiritualize the souls - but alas! How often they let the cloud of self and ego becloud the horizon and thus prevent the stars of their divine verities from shinning!   ABU2407

The world is illumined by the light of knowledge, yet darkened by the dust of the hearts of the transgressors... With this great tribulation and mighty darkness that hath encompassed the world, how can the peoples be worthy of the effulgent dawnings of the Sun of divine favor?   BH01003

for love is light, no matter in what abode it dwelleth; and hate is darkness, no matter where it may make its nest. O friends of God! That the hidden Mystery may stand revealed, and the secret essence of all things may be disclosed, strive ye to banish that darkness for ever and ever.  AB00104

Even as the light of the star fadeth before the effulgent splendor of the sun, so doth the luminary of earthly knowledge, of wisdom, and understanding vanish into nothingness when brought face to face with the resplendent glories of the Sun of Truth, the Daystar of divine enlightenment.  BH00002

God is the light of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them. And the likeness of what He hath ordained of His light is as a niche wherein is a lamp, the lamp enclosed in glass, the glass as it were a glittering star, lit from a blessed tree by the leave of its Lord.  BB00003

"What light more luminous than that of the love of God? What ray more effulgent than that of the knowledge of God? The external light is created by waves in the ether It is an accident that emanates from light-giving bodies and it enables objects to become visible and apparent to the sight."   AB07435

Through one blessed word that shone forth from the Dayspring of the mouth of the All-Merciful, the measure of all people's deeds became clear and evident, and through that same word a distinction was drawn between the righteous and the wicked, and between the people of Paradise and of the Fire.  BH01735

For example, light is created by God, but when you put away the light from a room, it becomes dark. Darkness is not created by God--the lack of light is called darkness. God has created guidance; misleading is lack of guidance. When you turn yourself from guidance you place yourself in misleading.  AB01454

Through its light, O my God, the pitch darkness and the gloomy night were dispelled, and the depths of clouds that had covered the face of earth and heaven were scattered, veiling them from the Sun of Truth that dawns at daybreak with unveiled countenance and brilliant lights shining upon all regions.   AB00126

We must strive with our lives so that these mighty forces are spent on the general happiness and comfort of the human world and become the cause of life rather than destroying the foundation of humanity - that they bestow love upon hearts rather than creating hatred and enmity because of vain imaginings.  AB01146

The luminous morn of guidance is rising and shining from the horizon of the Supreme Concourse. What is wonderful is that this bright morn causes the appearance of the lights of the luminous lamps, and from the spreading of the gleam of that dawn, the light of the candle becomes more manifest and evident.   AB07468

The reality of man is a niche of light and a glass of revelation. When this reality gaineth freshness, beauty and purity; the effulgence of the lamp of divine guidance and the gracefulness and purity of the glass of capacity are interconnected and the truth of Light upon Light will be manifest and recognised.  AB11194

In these days when the bird of knowledge is caught in the talons of the ignorant, and the lights of the sun of fairness are hidden behind the veil of tyranny... Today concealment is necessary, for the birds of night are beyond counting and all seek darkness. In such case there is no station or rank for light.   BH01934

It is my hope that very luminous lights may be enkindled in this tent so that the darkness may be dispelled. These lights are yourselves. It is my hope that you may cast your rays all around; that you may bestow lights - so that you may become able to free these souls from the darkness of the world of nature.   ABU2276

"If you observe, in these times the horizon of existence is hidden and concealed behind dark clouds, yet know with certainty that ere long this luminous dawning place will be cleansed of these dense and darksome clouds and will manifest such clarity, delicacy and brilliance that the horizons will become illumined."  AB03010

"There is no great hurry. We have lived here many years without electric lights, and a little while longer to wait will make no difference; what is important is the spiritual light. I hope that you will all attain to that. We can illumine this room with a simple lamp, but the spiritual electric light is very important."   ABU1200

On that Day shall God cause to shine forth in the True Faith a mighty light. Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the Kingdom of lights of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them! Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the Kingdom of the source of lights of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them!  BB00033

For in all degrees of existence there are two aspects: one aspect is the court of divine bestowal and the other aspect is the court of the demons. Paradise and hell are visible in all stations. Whatever is of the attributes of the All-Merciful is paradise and gardens, and whatever results from deficiency is the reality of the fires.  AB05756

When darkness had encompassed all created things, We manifested Our Self, the Truth, as a token of grace from the Mighty, the All-Wise. Among the people are those who cling to darkness, and among them are those who have set their faces toward the Ultimate Goal and have attained the lights of their Lord's countenance, the All-Informed.   BH08330

The rays of divine manifestation have spread like the gleaming dawn and its effulgence has struck both sight and insight. Every eye and insight that possessed the power of vision was illumined, while those weak of sight and limited in insight, lacking the power of vision, shut their eyes and, like bats, crept into the cave of darkness.  AB05301

And He hath illuminated the thick darkness and rent asunder the enshrouding veil of the most gloomy night with effulgent rays and shining Glory that is being diffused in the dawning places of God's decree. And the light of salvation hath beamed forth and the unique and illustrious priceless pearl hath gleamed with the light of success.   AB02853

The greatest of lamps is the electric lamp, yet it only illumines a limited space nearby for several hours and miles. But the celestial lamp shines like the brilliant morning light to the horizons, its light spreading from the earthly kingdom to the heavenly kingdom, and its radiance extending from the Supreme Concourse to the human realm.  AB09007

No matter how small is a room and how simply it is furnished, yet when a candle is ignited therein we exclaim 'the room is lighted!' Therefore you must make an effort to enkindle the lamp of guidance in your hearts, otherwise a well furnished room without lamp, a heart without spirituality and a meeting without the power of the Love of God are anomalies.  ABU2179

We are fighting against the forces of darkness... Your war confers life, the other war brings death. Your war is the cause of the illumination of humankind, their war is the means of the darkness of the hearts. Your war is victory upon victory, their war is defeat upon defeat. Your war is the source of construction, their war is the origin of destruction.   ABU1388

In the days of Revelation, the people of light and of fire are both present. The people of light are known - Thou shalt know them by their marks, the radiance of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. And the people of fire are those who rejected God's counsel and manifested rebellion and wickedness, who exchanged trustworthiness for treachery and justice for tyranny.  BH11717

Verily, the ray, being transmitted from the etheric sphere, rends the space and reaches the surface of the earth and dispels the gloomy darkness. Verily, be thou one of the rays of the Sun of Truth and then thou wilt cause the darkness of error to disappear and wilt change its intense obscurity into a discovering light which will guide (the people) unto the Kingdom of God.  AB10689

"The light is of four kinds: first, the light of the sun. It reveals objects to our perception, but cannot itself realize them. Second, the light of the eye. It can realize objects, but cannot understand them. Third, the light of wisdom. This both realizes and understand objects. Fourth, the Light of Guidance. This is the Supreme Light, the conscious Reality which comprehends mysteries."  ABU3447

O my sister, here we come up against the mystery of evil, the mystery of wickedness, which our limited understanding, our earth-bound senses, cannot solve in this earthly life. But if we gaze with burning eyes into the darkness of this abyss, it is given - at least to the sincere seeker after God - to receive an enlightening glimmer of understanding here and there in the darkness of evil.   ABU0069

It is morning, and the horizons of contingent being are illumined by the rays of the Eastern Sun, and the dawning-places of heart and soul are radiant and effulgent with the beams of the Sun of Truth. As the Primal Dawn, the manifest Light hath so brilliantly shone forth from the zenith of the most exalted Heaven that the darkness of the night of idle fancies is wholly dispelled and brought to naught.  AB07959

"See what has happened to this world. There is tumult and darkness upon darkness. Perhaps you may be the cause that through you it will be illumined. It is a world of carnage, a world of bloodshed, rancour and hatred. God willing, you may convert this world into the world of the Kingdom, that it may become a divine world, that these gloomy clouds may pass away and the Sun of Truth shine with divine splendour"  ABU0720

Then, they entered the field of contention and strife of which they attacked the people of darkness and the army of error with brilliant radiance as they rent asunder the troops and crushed thousands of them, hence, the entire place hath become illuminated, the face of the heaven hath shone brightly, the lights glittered and the darkness hath unveiled by the fire of the blessed Tree in the Paradise of thy Glorious Lord.  AB01032

In the books of Divine Philosophy, the term light is frequently mentioned. Some religious leaders still teach today that by light is meant the accidental phenomenal radiation from the sun which falling on physical bodies affects the optic nerves and results in sight: but this solar light is a phenomena which has no virtue of its own and is not so exceptional or remarkable as to claim superiority over other known phenomena of nature.  ABU0637

By the life of that Light in the Furqan and that Light in the Bayan, there is no light before God more near in the Book, yet people do not know. Soon thou shalt behold the angels of Paradise and of the All-Highest descending there, and they shall be empowered by God's light. And verily, God hath specially chosen from all names the name of Light, since no veil remaineth therein that would prevent it from the affirmation of affirmations.  BB00005

Lord! Verily darkness contends with the light of morn, and the gloomy night resists the resplendent light, and surely the confirmation in this continuous battle is from Thee. Lord! Make the darkness scattered dust and the lamp a light shining and radiating upon the universe, dispelling the dark clouds of doubts and imaginings, guiding every seeker who is veiled in this most great century and this noble age, which is confirmed by the brilliance of the manifest light.  AB04622

Among these are those who love not the Day because their souls have grown accustomed to the Night, and when the Day appeareth it obliterateth its traces and radiance until no vestige thereof remaineth visible. Observe thou the stars - they shine in the night and glory in their radiance, seeing themselves as manifest, yet when the Day appeareth and the Sun shineth forth, their light and radiance are obliterated as though they had never existed, and to this every person of insight beareth witness.   BH00569

If a soul distances himself from the Manifestation, he may yet be awakened, for he may have failed to know Him and to recognize Him as the Embodiment of the divine perfections. But if he loathes the divine perfections themselves, which are the Holy Spirit, this shows that, bat-like, he is a hater of the light. This lamp here is a lamp because of its light; without the light it would not be a lamp. A soul that abhors the light of the lamp is, as it were, blind and cannot perceive the light, and this blindness is the cause of eternal deprivation.  AB01521

The Abha Beauty, the Beloved of the worlds, hath lifted the veils in this world and manifested Himself like unto the sun. His beauty shineth radiantly. The sagacious and intelligent Turks with discerning hearts are delighted, their eyes are bright and they are bewildered. But a band of bat-like miserable people close their eyes, and while they are immersed in darkness they ask, "Where is the light? Where are the mysteries? Where are the signs?" and thus proclaim their blindness. When the blessed Day shineth forth for the discerning eyes, that Day is full of auspicious omen.  AB01605

O beloved of my heart! It is night, yet the sun is bright and visible, and the light manifest and clear. Glory be to God! Each of His signs is a clear book and a mighty volume. The worth of day appears through night, and its station shines through darkness. The lamp of night speaks of and indicates its station, while day itself reveals and manifests the station of day. Yet night stands opposite to day, and day opposite to night - both are limited. We seek a day that has no night following it, one illumined by the light of the Beloved's face, not by the light of sun or moon.   BH00864

There are two kinds of light. There is the visible light of the sun, by whose aid we can discern the beauties of the world around us -- without this we could see nothing. Nevertheless, though it is the function of this light to make things visible to us, it cannot give us the power to see them or to understand what their various charms may be, for this light has no intelligence, no consciousness. It is the light of the intellect which gives us knowledge and understanding, and without this light the physical eyes would be useless. This light of the intellect is the highest light that exists, for it is born of the Light Divine.   ABU0755
