Allusion cannot convey what Reality teaches.   ABU3202

Languages change, the meaning of words is lost; for these are but the expressions of periods.  ABU1462

No matter how eloquent and oratorical the outward tongue it cannot adequately express the riches of the spirit.  ABU2778

this servant has made the pen a means to express the degrees of love for the Ancient Beauty, and has made words the interpreter of meanings, that perchance a verse from the scripture of attraction which is folded within the essence of the heart might be inscribed upon page and paper. Alas! Alas! How could this be, even if all the seas were ink, and all the trees pens, and all the pages of the horizons were tablets.  AB06793

Perhaps after a thousand years much of what is every-day language to us will need explanation and the simple truths we teach will be glossed.  ABU3078

the description of the possible is itself possible, and the attribute of the dependent is dependent, and the kingdom endures in the kingdom. And concerning this matter, Al-Rida (peace be upon him) said: "Indeed, tools only define themselves, and instruments only point to their like, and in things their effects are found." And so continues the tradition. None in contingent existence has nobility except through decisive knowledge in the midst of pure manifestation. Whoever has not tasted that water has no portion in Divine Unity nor any path to the station of detachment. Most of the Illuminationist philosophers, Peripatetics, Transcendent theosophists, and Divine philosophers have stumbled in explaining this station. BB00036

For all these are representations of Thy Will and the geometry of Thy Purpose. The great ones have fallen short in describing Thy greatness, therefore they describe Thee through it.  BB00011

Languages are diverse and tongues are various, but the purpose of all is to convey meanings and communicate heartfelt intentions. Thus meanings are primary and verbal expression secondary.  AB06816

due to the impossibility of expressing any aspect of the Truth in the world of creation except through metaphor and similitude, so that people might comprehend the hidden mysteries concealed from sight   AB02161

However, since the manifestation of meaning depends upon the world of words, and the emergence of spirits is conditioned and bound to the appearance of bodies - for every inner reality requires an outward form and every beginning demands an end   BH02404

Understanding the world of souls is impossible in this world of bodies. That world is unlike anything you can conceive in your imagination. In these perishable bodies one cannot perceive the immortal worlds, save through that which ye sometimes behold in a dream.  BH05340

Thus souls who have entered beneath the shade of the Word of Unity are people of meaning, not of words; seekers of truth, not metaphor. All languages are acceptable and desirable to them if beloved meanings are present - whether Luri or Kurdish or Arabic or Persian or Pahlavi. And if meanings are absent from words, they are rejected whether Persian or Arabic or Iraqi or Hijazi.   AB01726

How many meanings are there that words cannot contain! How many of them have no expression and have been given neither statement nor allusion! And how many of them cannot be uttered because their time hath not come, as it hath been said: "Not all that is known can be disclosed, nor is the time ripe for all that can be disclosed, nor are the people capable of hearing all for which the time is ripe."  BH00271

This evanescent servant knoweth not what to say, having fallen into a world wherein he beholdeth the attributes of that Beloved One in such wise that no word is capable of describing them, nor qualified to define them. I swear by the Sun of utterance which hath shone forth from the most exalted station in all the world that no word can clothe the meaning of love for that Beloved One, nor can it reveal, indicate, describe or guide. Rather, in this station words remain silent, nay, prostrate, uttering only "I am the weakest of the weak."   BH00611

Yet withal, I beseech Thee by the fire of Thy Being which hath ever been concealed in the mystery of Thine Essence, and by the ocean of Thy greatness which hath ever flowed in the reality of Thy Being, to teach me from Thy holy tongue which Thou hast sanctified from the hearing of Thy creation and hallowed from the understanding of Thy servants, and to honor me with the melodies of Thy rapture which none can hear, perceive, or know, for were but a single note thereof to appear, all who are in the heavens and on earth would be thunderstruck by the strange nature of its tune and the wondrous character of its pattern.   BH01524

Although writing and speaking can express what is in the heart, the realm of words falls short in fully conveying divine meanings. It is but an indication, an allusion, a sign. Therefore, the pages of hearts are open scrolls, and in them are inscribed the realities of spiritual feelings. If you gaze upon those tablets, you will witness eloquent expression, fluent speech, and wondrous meanings. You are the clear Book through whose letters the hidden becomes manifest. Although all created things are divine tablets and pages wherein the mysteries of Lordship are inscribed, the Preserved Tablet and the open scroll are the hearts of the friends. This is another expression and another explanation. The realities of meanings inscribed therein are eternal - they undergo no change or alteration, and accept no erasure or confirmation, unless the very reality of spiritual identity ceases to exist. Despite these spiritual pages, it is strange that soul and heart still yearn for the tracings on paper, so that the essence of love may become evident and manifest in all degrees of existence.   AB02516

The former parties were deprived of the realm of inner meanings through names and words. They clung to vain imaginings and held fast to conflict and contention - one party Usuli, another Shaykhi, another Sunni, another Shi'i, another Ni'matullahi, and Jalali and Kharabati and Qadiri and Mawlavi. Were you to enumerate the paths of idle fancy, you could not count them. Blessed are the powerful ones who have rolled up these carpets and considered all save Truth as non-existent and null.  BH00387