
The perception of the mind is bound to the testimony of sight. Before observation, knowledge of all things is concealed from the intellect. Can the rational soul, ere it hath witnessed, behold within the seed the world of trees and fruits, of leaves and branches and twigs? No, by God! When through sight these matters are discovered, the mind then becomes aware of their individual comprehension. Likewise, observe and ponder upon other things.   BH00400

Know that people take pride in knowledge and praise it, yet this servant complains of it. Were it not for knowledge, the Beauty would not have been imprisoned in the Most Great Prison of Akka, nor would He have drunk the cup of tribulation at the hands of His enemies. Rhetoric has distanced me, the science of meanings has brought me low, mention of union has disjointed my limbs, brevity has become the cause of prolixity in my hardship and tribulation, morphology has turned me from rest, syntax has erased joy and delight from my heart, and my knowledge of God's mysteries has become chains around my neck. Despite this, how can I mention what you asked about the verses sent down from the heaven of might and grandeur, verses whose meaning has bewildered the minds of the wise and to whose heights the birds of understanding have failed to soar? The wings of this bird have been clipped by the shears of envy and hatred. If this bird, whose primary and secondary feathers have been cut, could find wings to fly in the atmosphere of meanings and utterance, it would warble upon the branches of the tree of knowledge and exposition such melodies as would cause the hearts of the sincere to soar to the heaven of longing and attraction, where they would behold the effulgences of their Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower. But now I am prevented from revealing what is treasured, from expanding what is condensed, and from disclosing what is hidden. Rather, we must conceal rather than reveal. Were I to speak of what God has taught me through His grace and bounty, people would disperse from around me and flee, save those who have drunk from the Kawthar of life from the cups of the words of their Lord, the All-Merciful. For every word sent down from the heaven of revelation to the Prophets and Messengers is filled with the pure water of meanings, utterance, wisdom, and exposition. Blessed are they who drink thereof. BH00271


Since the beginning of the world there have been an endless number of philosophical thoughts and theories. Some of these concepts were considered useful, others were imagined to be visions or spiritual inspirations, whereas most of them emanated from superstition. Inasmuch as such thoughts were various and contradictory they could not belong to the realm of reality, because reality is one and does not permit of multiplicity.   ABU0590

Believing that God is present in nature has never been enough. This belief has never founded, and could never found, a civilization. But belief in God's Chosen Ones, His Prophets, through Whom come the living waters of His revelation, has created structures in the life of man that the revolution of many ages and cycles could not destroy, and brought him holy light that time could never dim.  ABU1594

most of the learned ones of the age, despite their great knowledge, remain deprived and excluded  BH06477

The intellect is good but until it has become the servant of the heart, it is of little avail.   ABU3540

To man, the Essence of God is incomprehensible, so also are the worlds beyond this, and their condition.  ABU3094

the inability to perceive something with the senses does not necessarily prove the non-existence of that thing  ABU3701

They remained imprisoned in the world of nature yet investigated the realities beyond nature. They lived in a cage yet wished to fly  AB01958

Since minds can only perceive things as limited, they cannot witness the matter between matters and the decree of eternity in the decree of determination.   BB00383

If inability to sense constitutes proof of perfection, the cow must be the greatest philosopher, for she does not realize anything beyond the animal world.   ABU3156

"But these people are pure in heart and simple in spirit; therefore, though not intellectually advanced, they are capable of grasping their portion of truth"  ABU3375

Because he cannot conceive a higher, does it not exist? The purely material man cannot comprehend the spiritual idea of life. And so he thinks that his lack of knowledge is proof of non-existence.  ABU1868

Leave aside the books of the people - a command from Us - and take hold of this Mighty Tablet. They have authored them according to their desires and attributed them to the religion of God and His path.   BH09161

There is no doubt that I am not and have never been learned in the formal sciences of the learned. Rather, from the tongue of pure nature, I have uttered prayers and verses that truly conform to the tradition of the Family of God   BB00363

The wings of our understanding have grown weary of ascending to the zenith of Thy knowledge, and the spiders of our minds are powerless to weave with their threads upon the highest horizons the loftiness of Thy praise and glorification   AB01374

All the great philosophers who have stepped into the world of existence could not give a moral education to the inhabitants of a village. The utmost they could do was to have ten or twenty students to whom they gave lectures and conferences.  ABU0692

Tell him that the ultimate reach of minds is but fetters, and most of the strivings of the learned are but error. Take what thou hast seen and leave aside what thou hast heard - in the countenance of the full moon thou wilt find what makes thee independent of Saturn.  AB10884

Consider the physical eye - how by a thin veil it is prevented from beholding all that exists between earth and heaven. Likewise, how can the inner eye, with the thick veils of idle fancy and imitation, perceive the shining of the lights of divine unity without limitation?   BH02287

Many a soul, in the ark of philosophy, after fruitless struggles, was drowned in the sea of conflicting theories of cause and effect, while those on board the craft of simplicity reached the shore of universal cause by the help of favourable winds blowing from the point of divine knowledge.   AB07148

While they were thinking this to be the only way one could understand everything they became of different opinions. Discord and differences only show the measure of the intellect to be untrue, for they all had the same intellect, and were this the true standard they would never have disagreed.  ABU0251

And since in all human souls the luminous flame of divine reason which perceives abstract meanings is extinguished, and perceptions are confined to sensible things, therefore the third category is mostly chosen and expressed so that weak minds may receive a portion of abstract spiritual realities.  AB04098

What I mean is this -- philosophy and science will not suffice to elevate and civilize a people who are in a bestial condition. What philosophy has ever elevated a whole nation and influenced humanity? Philosophy of necessity is restricted to a small school and cannot have an essentially moral influence   ABU1653

Is the animal's inability to perceive the existence of human intellect or perfections sufficient grounds on which to reject them as falsehoods? How, then, can one claim that one's powers of perception encompass the divine realms, or rely on that deficient perception as the standard by which to prove [the existence of such realms]?  ABU3717

Intellect judges according to justice, nature according to force. Intellect judges according to equity, nature according to aggression. Intellect judges according to solidarity, mercy and love. Nature, on the contrary, is governed by the law of the survival of the fittest, whereas the distinction of man is to be sanctified above such a law.   ABU0657

For the example of your knowledge and your endeavors before God is as one who carrieth upon his back two loads of figs. Should he believe in God, he would be numbered among the believers, and God would accept what he hath borne of his figs instead of knowledge and piety, for that which profiteth him is that which hath confirmed the Cause of his Lord.  BB00004

Verily, eyes are dazzled by gazing at the sun, and it is impossible to consider it because of the intensity of its rays; and verily the sea cannot be contained in a cup. The weakness of eyes does no harm to the sun, nor the smallness of the cup to the sea...Verily, minds are limited, and the splendor of lights is so great as not to be comprehended by (man's) reflective faculties.  AB02301

He depends solely upon sense perception. That which is not perceptible to the senses he rejects. From this standpoint of knowing the greatest Plato is the cow, and the donkey is an arch philosopher. In the great university of nature, where nothing beyond the pale of sensibilities is classified as knowledge, the animal is a graduate and the human materialist but an under-graduate.  ABU2865

Though by the ancient philosophers the reasoning mind was regarded as the highest authority, these philosophers do not agree. Some declare that the universe had a beginning, others that it had no beginning. Their various opinions are so numerous that one cannot count them. But if the verdict of man's reason was a norm of final and absolute verity, the philosophers of the world would agree.  ABU0648

The true mystic is he who confesseth his powerlessness and the powerlessness of his mystical knowledge to attain unto the station whence appeared the light of mystical knowledge from God, the Lord of the Throne on high and of earth below. Verily, he who hath not attained unto this confession is among the most ignorant of the ignorant, even though he be learned in all the sciences of the world.   BH00543

O Lord! The innermost reality of understanding in this contingent realm is, in its essence, utterly powerless to grasp even a single one of the mysteries of the All-Merciful, inasmuch as all understanding encompasseth that reality in the realm of existence that is comprehensible. How, then, could that which is contingent comprehend the Ancient Mystery unless the Ancient be encompassed by the contingent world?   AB00045

Have you ever thought that the worms inside of an apple may think that the creation of God is ended there and that there is nothing outside? Again the tiny worms inside of an apricot seed may boast that God's creation hath come to a terminus in this small seed. There is nothing beside this. Now the worms must "wiggle" out of the apple, eat their way out and then lo and behold, the creation of God is infinite.  ABU1707

For contingent beings are limited by their inability to know Him - otherwise, through the intensification of the bonds of waywardness, the heedless ones would claim knowledge of the essence of the All-Merciful. Yet all that they distinguish through vain imaginings, in the most precise meanings of expression, is but a mental conception or a heart's fancy that can neither quench the thirsty one nor heal the afflicted.  AB00247

The highest faculties which the learned have possessed, and whatsoever truths they, in their search after the gems of Thy knowledge, have discovered; the brightest realities with which the wise have been endowed, and whatever secrets they, in their attempts to fathom the mysteries of Thy wisdom, have unravelled, have all been created through the generative power of the Spirit that was breathed into the Pen which Thy hands have fashioned.  BH00769

Now these degrees all belong to one kingdom, are all composed of matter. As it is impossible for these different kingdoms belonging to the same world to understand one another to is it impossible for man to understand the things of the future life. For as the difference between these grades or conditions so is the difference between man and the spiritual kingdom. It is impossible for man to perceive or understand it because he has no power with which to perceive it.  ABU0974

We asked 'Abdu'l-Baha concerning Intuition, or what is called "The Sixth Sense" (or inner perception or insight. I translate it "inner perception" as this is nearer the sense of the word used by 'Abdu'l-Baha). He said in part: "Intuition (or inner perception) is a power or a light by which man comprehends and perceives the realities of things without the mediumship of the outward senses. To illustrate: There are four kinds of lights: 1 - The outward (or phenomenal) light, which makes things manifest or visible, but which does not discover them. 2 - The light of the eye, or the Eye-sight. This makes things manifest and also discovers them, but it does not comprehend them. 3 - The light of the Intellect (or reason). this light makes things manifest, discovers them, comprehends them, but things pre-exist it, (i.e., its existence is posterior to the creation of things). 4 - The Light of God. It is the revealer of things (i.e., by it things are made manifest), the discoverer of things, the comprehender of things, and it precedes the creation of all things and follows the existence of all things, as it is said, 'God is the Light of the Heaven and Earth' (Quran).  ABU0971

As for the sensory measure, its greatest medium is sight, and its error is clearly evident to people of insight, for sight sees the mirage as water, shadow as stationary, a moving point as a circle, and great bodies as small. As for the measure of reason, upon which the people of observation and deduction rely, its error is clearly proven, for its adherents differ on most questions and opinions. Were it a straight measure, they would not have differed on any question.   AB00223

This 'sagacity' or 'quickness of parts' is to be met with in most animals, while in man this is found in a much less degree. For instance, if, during the night, some one enters your house clandestinely, the man of the house may not feel conscious of such presence, while the dog of the house will instantly become aware of it. thus a dog is more sagacious than his master in the matter of the power of instinct, but the dog has no intellect which is a gift particular to man.   ABU1568

Man has not been able to understand himself and know the ulterior motives of the laws which constantly modify and change our world. He has not yet explained the unchangeable law of creation which governs the smallest protoplasm and the highest created being - "without haste, but without rest[!]" How does he dare them to assume so much for granted? How can he then claim to reduce to ascertained principles, the laws of the transcendental world of God which he has never observed or witnessed?   ABU1086

The ancient philosophers have also taught that by the Intellect (the second method) of argument and reasoning accurate and absolute knowledge of everything can be obtained...It is therefore evident that we cannot rely on this second method of obtaining knowledge, to ensure absolute accuracy. Successive philosophers are always contradicting each other, and propounding diverse theories. If absolute knowledge were to be obtained by this means, the wisest philosophers would agree in saying the same things.   ABU0484

When philosophers pondered this with their minds, they were cut off from understanding it and found no path for themselves except through fixed essences or predestination. This was because they did not learn from the Manifestations of infallibility, but relied on what they grasped through their own intellects, not realizing that if their intellects were true intellects and not merely nominal ones, they would have attained a station wherein if they had approached even a fingertip closer, they would have been consumed by fire.  BB00219

The second criterion is that of the intellect, which was the principal criterion of comprehension for those pillars of wisdom, the ancient philosophers. They deduced things through the power of the mind and relied on rational arguments: all their arguments are based upon reason. But despite this, they diverged greatly in their opinions. They would even change their own views: for twenty years they would deduce the existence of something through rational arguments, and then afterwards they would disprove the same, again through rational arguments.  AB00520

The senses mistake a mirage for water; the eyes see the sun move; your train or boat seems immobile and the landscape seems to pass by, planets look like fixed points of light; but they have measurable dimensions. A lighted point set in rotation appears like a circle. These examples show the senses subject to error. How can we put our trust in them? The test of logic is just as imperfect, for were this criterion perfect there would never have been the continual clash of opinion as to the sacred texts. How can they be interpreted by logic if the means be at fault?   ABU0608

If, for example, one be endowed with the senses of hearing, of taste, of smell, of touch -- but be deprived of the sense of sight, it will not be possible for one to gaze about; for sight cannot be realized through hearing or tasting, or the sense of smell or touch. In the same way, with the faculties at man's disposal it is beyond the realm of possibility for him to grasp that unseeable Reality, holy and sanctified above all the sceptics' doubts. For this, other faculties are required, other senses; should such powers become available to him, then could a human being receive some knowledge of that world; otherwise, never.  AB01117

If the criterion of the senses were to be the best of criteria, then His Holiness the Cow would be the greatest philosopher! Then He said, Laughter broke out and the meeting concluded. The next day we went to Dublin. We were walking with some friends on a street when several cows appeared in the distance. The friends said, 'Here come the philosophers!' I said how strange that I made this statement last night in San Francisco and today we are thirty-five leagues away from there. They said, 'You made the statement in the philosophers' gathering and all the newspapers published that His Holiness the Cow is the greatest philosopher!'  ABU0888

This human world is an ocean of varying opinions. If reason is the perfect standard and criterion of knowledge, why are opinions at variance and why do philosophers disagree so completely with each other? This is a clear proof that human reason is not to be relied upon as an infallible criterion. For instance, great discoveries and announcements of former centuries are continually upset and discarded by the wise men of today. Mathematicians, astronomers, chemical scientists continually disprove and reject the conclusions of the ancients; nothing is fixed, nothing final; everything is continually changing because human reason is progressing along new roads of investigation and arriving at new conclusions every day.  ABU0300

We have ordained knowledge that it might guide you to My path, yet ye turned away therefrom and waxed proud before the All-Wise One.  BH08489

Sciences have appeared which have allured the minds of men away from God. We observe that knowledge hath given rise to doubts and evil suggestions which have deprived mankind of tranquil confidence in God. But today this Leader of Knowledge, this Manifest Light, hath arisen with such splendor as to dispel all darkness from the face of the earth.  BH00308


One must carefully study the divine texts and execute the laws of God's religion, avoiding the interpretations of the mystics and the confusion of the philosophers, for these cause souls to become frozen, depressed, lazy, indifferent, scattered and bewildered, and ultimately render the divine community degraded and contemptible, considered in the eyes of the public as a group of transgressors and sinners. Assuredly, the true friends desire naught save the fear of God.  AB10170

Verily the mind is the greatest sign in man, and blessed is he who attaineth unto it. Yet notwithstanding its lofty station and exalted rank, it is seen to be powerless to comprehend most things, for the mind's knowledge dependeth upon the testimony of sight. Unless the eye beholdeth the palm tree, the mind cannot perceive in the date-stone its fruits and leaves, branches and boughs. How then could the mind, before seeing, comprehend that there existeth in the world something a particle of which could burn up the entire world, reduce it to ashes, and cause it to vanish? Assuredly the Hand of Divine Power hath brought such a thing to perfection. Neither are God's worlds limited to this world, nor is His power restricted from aught, nor His might confined to the means of this world. And since it hath been established and proven that His creation is perfect and complete, and that whatsoever hath been and is observed is in accordance with wisdom, it therefore becometh evident to every soul that whatsoever appeareth imperfect hath been ordained to attain unto perfection and completion, and shall be made manifest.  BH00035

