All people are like diverse birds, but they must gather at this fountain and be satisfied from this spring, and that spring is the teachings of Baha'u'llah. First is the independent investigation of truth, second is the oneness of humanity, third is that religion must be the cause of love and fellowship - if it is not the cause of love and fellowship it has no purpose, fourth is that religion must accord with science, fifth that religious prejudice, sectarian prejudice, racial prejudice and national prejudice destroy the foundation of humanity - all people are God's sheep and of one race and the earth is one homeland, sixth that one must be free of all imitations and hold fast to the foundation of divine religions, seventh is unity of language - one language must be chosen or newly invented that will be universal so that misunderstandings between religions and races and nations will disappear, and likewise the equality of men and women, and likewise the spread of sciences and knowledge, and likewise the union of women and men among all religions and nations, and likewise justice and equity, and likewise political unity and so forth. All humanity must be satisfied from the fountain of these teachings so that the oneness of humanity may raise its banner at the pole of contingent being. The details of these teachings are many but I have mentioned them briefly and from this summary you can understand the full detail. In any case, today the darkness of the world of nature has encompassed the horizons. Only through the heavenly teachings of Baha'u'llah can humanity be saved from this darkness and become illumined. All these teachings pertain to the world of morals - they do not interfere with any of the religions.  AB07457

My objects are the establishment of the Cause of international arbitration, the promotion of the oneness of the world of humanity, the conformity of religion with science and reason, the elucidation of the essential unity of the divine religions, the explanation of the continuity of the prophetic revelation, the instruction of mankind in the knowledge of human brotherhood, the inculcation of the primordial oneness of all phenomena, the upraising of the standard of the solidarity of the human race, the creation of a nucleus for bringing about the universal race, the spread of the precepts of spiritual civilization, the teachings of the synthesis of the heavenly philosophy, the readjustment of the economic relations between the capitalists and laborers, so that each individual member of the world of humanity may enjoy the utmost welfare and prosperity, the organization of the Arbitral Court of justice - in order that all the nations of the world may settle before that Court their international disputes and thus remove all the traces of enmity and hatred and the upholding of the principle of one auxiliary, universal language. This is my duty. This is my work! There are my objects. ABU2012

To live the life. To be no cause of grief to any one. To love each other very much. To be kind to all people and to love them with a pure spirit. Should opposition or injury happen to us, we must bear it and be as kind as ever we can be, and through all, we must love the people. Should calamity exist in the greatest degree, we must rejoice, for these things are the Gifts and Favors of God. To be silent concerning the faults of others, to pray for them, and to help them--through kindness--to correct their faults. To look always at the good and not at the bad. If a man has ten good qualities and one bad one, to look at the ten and forget the one; and if a man has ten bad qualities and one good one, to look at the one and forget the ten.  To never to allow ourselves to speak one unkind word about another, even though that other be our enemy. To rebuke those who speak to us of the faults of others. All of our deeds must be done in kindness. To be occupied in spreading the Teachings... To cut our hearts from ourselves and from the world. To be humble. To be servants of each other and to know that we are less than any one else. To be as one soul in many bodies; for the more we love each other, the nearer we will be to God; but that our love, our unity, our obedience, must not be by confession but of reality. To act with cautiousness and wisdom. To be truthful. To be hospitable. To be reverent. To be a cause of healing for every sick one; a comforter for every sorrowful one; a pleasant water for every thirsty one; a Heavenly Table for every hungry one; a guide for every seeker; rain for cultivation; a star to every horizon; a light for every lamp; a herald to every yearning one for the Kingdom of God. Our Blessed Master said: "By these things you know the faithful servant of God."  ABU1013

Question: "What do the Baha'is believe?"  Answer: "They believe that mankind must love mankind; that universal amity must be practiced; that dead dogmas must be thrown away. That we are at the Threshold of the era of interdependence, that we must forget prejudices and that Universal Love must become the dominant note of the music of the 20th century."  ABU3229


The Baha'is must be the servants of universal peace, the workers for the cause of the oneness of the world of humanity, the spreaders of heavenly love amongst the children of men, the promulgators of the principles of the progress of mankind, the dispellers of the clouds of religious, national, patriotic and political prejudices, and the upholders of the inviolable rights of equality between men and women. They must correspond religious ideals with the deductions of science and reason, and discard all such theories which cannot stand the test of intellect and empirical knowledge.  ABU1561

My message is the oneness of humanity and universal peace; the harmony of true science and religion; the equality of rights; the elimination of religious, racial and political prejudices; the truth of all the divine religions; the removal of religious imitations and superstitions; the education of women to such a degree that they may have equal rights with men; the adjustment of the economic condition of all people so that if a rich man enjoys honor and affluence, the poor man may also have a mat to lie on and a house to dwell in; the establishment of spiritual civilization; the reformation of human morals; the unity of all religions, so that when the people of the world recognize the truth of all religions, they may become united since truth is one - if they follow imitation, war and dissension shall remain, because imitations are the cause of differences.   ABU2221


The most beautiful pentagram comprises: Love, work, prayer, peace and joy; pursue daily its realization!   ABU3621

They are--the oneness of the world of humanity, independent investigation of truth, abandonment of prejudice, universal peace, etc.   ABU3267

"They are-the Oneness of the World of Humanity, Independent Investigation of Truth, Abandonment of Prejudice, Universal Peace, etc. You must act in accordance with these Teachings."  ABU2255

"The Principles of the religion of Baha'u'llah are the Collective Reality, the Power of divine attraction, the illumination of the world of humanity and the Breaths of the Holy Spirit."  ABU1700

the foundation of this Cause ... is based on pure good, absolute mercy, the reformation of the world, consideration for all peoples, truthfulness toward heads of government, abandonment of conflict, kindness and righteousness  AB02969

the basic teachings of Baha'u'llah are universal peace; the oneness of humanity; prohibition of execration and calumny; association with the followers of all religions in harmony and unity of nations, of races and of governments.  ABU1372

the teachings of Baha'u'llah encompass all the teachings of the sacred books, and beyond this has special teachings which are the illumination of the human world and the spirit of this age   AB01118

The Principles of His Holiness Baha-ollah are numerous. One of those Principles is the question of Universal Peace. Save through this Divine Power, or in other words, Religious Power, the matter of Universal Peace will not be established on a firm and lasting foundation.  AB00376

1st Investigation of Reality. 2d the oneness of the world of humanity, 3d Religion must be the Cause of love and Amity. 4th Religion must be in accord with science and reason. 5th Universal Peace. 6th Economic plan. 7th Equality of man and woman etc.   ABU0878

"In addition, the Faith offers certain principles, which others lack. For instance, [the principle of] the oneness of humanity; religion must be cause of love and fellowship; religion must be in accord with reason and science; proclamation of universal peace; equality of men and women; promotion of learning and spirituality; and many others."  ABU1991

Among the teachings are justice and right, equality between men and women, promotion of sciences and arts, and that craft is identical with worship. Among the teachings is service to humanity without exception, universal peace, the creation of a universal language, education for all humanity, complete truthfulness and obedience to just government, and the sharing of wealth among mankind.   AB00138

"Our crime was the proclamation of religious liberty, to worship God according to our own hearts, to spread universal Peace, to educate public opinion for moral and civic uplift of the nations, the equality of the sexes, universal education so that no ignorant boy and girl remain in the country, the development of spiritual susceptibilities, rectitude, uprightness, honor and righteousness."   ABU0237

Among these principles are: the highest efficiency in the educational system, the oneness of the world of humanity, the conformity of religion with science and reason, equality of rights among the children of men, the breaths of the Holy Spirit, equality of men and women, the sweeping away of the prejudices existing among the various religions, heavenly morals, the fragrances of the Merciful, universal peace, etc.  AB08454

Then He spoke of principles of the Faith concerning the 'Unity of Race', 'International Peace', 'Science and Religion', 'Religious and Racial Prejudice', the 'Equality of Men and Women', 'Universal Education', 'The Solution of the Economic Problem', and thus ended His talk: 'There are many other principles, but I have spoken [of] a few of them to you, and from these you will understand the spirit of the Baha'i Revelation.'  ABU2365


O ye Persians! ...your country is the dawning-place of this glorious Orb, the first rays of which is the oneness of the world of humanity, its second ray is love for all mankind, its third ray is universal Peace, its fourth ray is the correspondence of science with religion, its fifth ray is Universal religion, universal language, universal education  ABU0390

The fundamental principles of this universal religion are: 1- Independent investigation of the truth, which means that one has to refrain from blindly imitating others. 2 - The unity of mankind: all peoples are God's lambs and God is the loving Shepherd. 3 - Religion has to be a cause of harmony for mankind. 4 - Religion has to be in concord with science and reason. 5 - Equality of the sexes. 6 - Universal peace. 7 - There has to be a universal language.  ABU0477

promote those teachings which are the spirit of this age: the oneness of humanity, establishment of universal peace, right and justice, that religion must be the cause of fellowship among people, harmony between reason and science, equality of men and women, liberty and freedom for all humanity, establishment of heavenly morals and love for all humankind even unto animals, universal education, and that crafts, commerce and agriculture are forms of worship  AB00903

First: It is incumbent upon the ministers of the House of Justice to promote the Lesser Peace so that the people of the earth may be relieved from the burden of exorbitant expenditures. This matter is imperative and absolutely essential, inasmuch as hostilities and conflict lie at the root of affliction and calamity. Second: Languages must be reduced to one common language to be taught in all the schools of the world. Third: It behoveth man to adhere tenaciously unto that which will promote fellowship, kindliness and unity.  BH00238

These twelve basic Bahai principles were laid down by Baha'o'llah over sixty years ago and are to be found in his published writings of that time: The oneness of the world of humanity. Independent investigation of truth. The foundation of all religions is one. Religion must be the cause of unity. Religion must be in accord with science and reason. Equality between men and women. Prejudice of all kinds must be forgotten. Universal peace. Universal education. Solution of the economic problem. A universal language. An international tribunal.   ABU0225

The first is investigation of truth, The second, the oneness of mankind, The third, universal peace, The fourth, conformity between science and divine revelation, The fifth, abandonment of racial, religious, worldly and political prejudices, prejudices which destroy the foundation of mankind. The sixth is righteousness and justice, The seventh, the betterment of morals and heavenly education, The eighth, the equality of the two sexes, The ninth, the diffusion of knowledge and education, The tenth, economic questions, and so on and so forth.  AB00862

Among these teachings is the unity of mankind -- show us in which book this is recorded. Another teaching is universal peace -- in which book is this? That religion should be a cause of love and unity, otherwise it would be better to do without it -- in which book is this? And that religion should be conformable with sound reason and true knowledge -- in which book is this? In which book hath the equality of men and women been established? And the elimination of all forms of prejudice, whether of creed, religion, nation, politics or race -- in which book is this?  ABU0231

His teachings, which embody the divine spirit of the age and are applicable to this period of maturity in the life of the human world, are: The oneness of the world of humanity The protection and guidance of the Holy Spirit The foundation of all religion is one Religion must be the cause of unity Religion must accord with science and reason Independent investigation of truth Equality between men and women The abandoning of all prejudices among mankind Universal peace Universal education A universal language Solution of the economic problem An international tribunal.  ABU0101


And what are the ten commandments? 1. Mankind is an indivisible, indissoluble unity. 2. All religions are to be unified in the highest unity of the Baha'i Teachings. 3. World Peace is to be ensured through the Supranational House of Justice. 4. Adopt a world-unifying language and a unified script. 5. Give the best education and schooling to boys and girls. 6. Give to each person the same right and same duty to work. 7. Equal rights and duties for man and woman. 8. Prohibition of any kind of bondage, every kind of begging. 9. Private property should not grow to overwhelming power. 10. Landed property may not be bartered away nor lost to usury.   ABU0193

I will speak to you concerning the special teachings of Baha'u'llah. All the divine principles announced by the tongue of  the Prophets of the past are to be found in the words of Baha'u'llah; but in addition to these He has revealed certain new teachings which are not found in any of the sacred Books of former times. I shall mention some of them; the others, which are many in number, may be found in the Books, Tablets and Epistles written by Baha'u'llah... A fundamental teaching of Baha'u'llah is the oneness of the world of humanity.... Another new principle revealed by Baha'u'llah is the injunction to investigate truth -- that is to say, no man should blindly follow his ancestors and forefathers.... Baha'u'llah has announced that the foundation of all the religions of God is one, that oneness is truth and truth is oneness which does not admit of plurality. This teaching is new and specialized to this Manifestation.... He sets forth a new principle for this day in the announcement that religion must be the cause of unity, harmony and agreement among mankind. If it is the cause of discord and hostility, if it leads  to separation and creates conflict, the absence of religion would be preferable in the world.... Furthermore, He proclaims that religion must be in harmony with science and reason. If it does not conform to science and reconcile with reason, it is superstition.... He establishes the equality of man and woman. This is peculiar to the teachings of Baha'u'llah, for all other religions have placed man above woman....  A new religious principle is that prejudice and fanaticism -- whether sectarian, denominational, patriotic or political -- are destructive to the foundation of human solidarity; therefore, man should release himself from such bonds in order that the oneness of the world of humanity may become manifest.... Universal peace is assured by Baha'u'llah as a fundamental accomplishment of the religion of God -- that peace shall prevail among nations, governments and peoples, among religions, races and all conditions of mankind.... Baha'u'llah declares that all mankind should attain knowledge and acquire an education.... He has set forth the solution and provided the remedy for the economic question.... He has ordained and established the House of Justice, which is endowed with a political as well as a religious function, the consummate union and blending of church and state.... As to the most great characteristic of the revelation of Baha'u'llah, a specific teaching not given by any of the Prophets of the past: It is the ordination and appointment of the Center of the Covenant. ABU0130

For example, that religion must be the cause of concord; that it should agree with science and reason; that it must be a factor of progress to the world of humanity, that it should be free from blind imitations. Another example is that all prejudices are destructive to the foundation of the world of humanity. Other examples are: The equality of men and women; the universalization of knowledge (education); the creation of one universal language; justice and righteousness; economic facilities among mankind; the need of the world of humanity of the breaths of the Holy Spirit; the establishment of universal peace; the institution of the Supreme Court of Arbitration; the freedom and equality of all mankind; the brotherhood of the world of humanity  AB00481

The exact same topics that I discussed in public gatherings should be mentioned, namely: the oneness of humanity, independent investigation of truth, the unity of the foundation of divine religions, abandonment of religious, sectarian, racial and national prejudices, conformity of religion with reason and science, religion being the cause of fellowship and love between people (otherwise its abandonment is preferable), equality between men and women, necessity of confirmation from the Holy Spirit, proving the existence of God and divine revelation, the penetrating power of Baha'u'llah, unity between religions, the dawning of the Sun of Truth from the horizon of Iran, universal peace, universal language, and education of children of all religions in one school with one curriculum.   AB03394

First, the independent investigation of truth and deliverance from ancient traditions. Second, the oneness of the world of humanity, as has been explained in detail in the letters. Third, religion must be the cause of fellowship and love - if it is not, it has no result - with the details you have heard. Fourth, science and religion must walk hand in hand. Fifth, universal peace among mankind, and its details. Sixth, the establishment of the Supreme Tribunal, and its details. Seventh, unity between men and women and equality of rights. Eighth, compulsory education and its details. Ninth, freedom of rights. Tenth, non-interference in political affairs. Eleventh, the establishment of a universal language. Twelfth, the Most Great Justice. And thirteenth, the utmost need for the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and similar teachings.  AB01419

The matter of universal peace is but one of the principles of Baha'u'llah's teachings, which has its corollaries: the independent investigation of reality and the abandonment of ancient traditions; the oneness of humanity; religious amity and fellowship, meaning that religion must be the cause of unity and accord; the conformity of religion with science and reason; the relinquishment of religious, racial, national, territorial and political prejudices; the unity of language, meaning the adoption of a universal auxiliary language so that every person would know two languages - one's native tongue and the universal language; the solution of economic problems; the equality of rights between men and women; the matter of justice and equity; the establishment of a divine civilization; and many others similar to these.  AB02230

The first teaching of Baha'u'llah was the unity of mankind, that all created beings are God's sheep and God is the true Shepherd, kind to all His flock. Since He is kind to all His sheep, why should we be unkind? The second teaching of Baha'u'llah was universal peace, that all nations of the world must establish relations with one another and make peace, and establish a universal tribunal. The third teaching of Baha'u'llah was that religion must be the cause of fellowship and love; if religion becomes the cause of enmity, irreligion is better. The fourth teaching of Baha'u'llah is that religion must accord with reason. If religion be contrary to reason, it is superstition. The fifth teaching of Baha'u'llah is that there must be equality between women and men. The sixth is that education must be universal. Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the unity of language, that a universal language should be established, and among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the economic question.   ABU1080

In any case, in all gatherings and great churches, I proclaimed the unity of humanity according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah, that praise be to God, the Sun of Truth has risen from the Eastern horizon with utmost brilliance and has cast its rays upon all regions. Its rays are the heavenly teachings, which proclaim the unity of the human world, promote universal peace, investigate reality, establish fellowship and love through the power of religion, reconcile science and reason with religion, abandon religious, racial, national and political prejudices, universalize public education, establish a supreme international tribunal to resolve various problems between governments and nations, educate all women equal to men in all human virtues, solve economic problems, establish a universal language, and so forth--so that the human world may be saved from the darkness of error and reach the dawning-place of guidance, and all this strife and conflict and enmity and hatred among humanity may be utterly destroyed from their foundations, and the misunderstandings between religions may vanish.  AB00269

should any person of understanding become acquainted with the divine teachings, he would be attracted and yield momentous results, for the new teachings are the spirit of this age and the light of this century. Among them is the independent investigation of truth, which demolishes the foundation of blind imitation. Among them is the oneness of humanity--that all human beings are the sheep of God and God is the kind Shepherd, showing utmost kindness to all His sheep. Among them is universal peace, which is the immediate remedy for every malady in this illumined age. Among them is that religion must be the cause of fellowship and love; if it becomes the cause of hatred and enmity, it yields no fruit. Among them is the reconciliation of science, reason and religion. Among them is the abandonment of religious prejudices, sectarian prejudices, racial prejudices, patriotic prejudices and political prejudices. Among them is justice and equality, nay rather, the voluntary sharing by the wealthy with the poor, not through force and coercion. Among them is the economic question, which is detailed. Among them is the equality of men and women, with some exceptions in certain matters. Among them is justice and right. Among them is the unity of language. Among them is universal education. Among them is confirmation by the Holy Spirit, and so forth. These are teachings that are the spirit of this age and the cause of joy to the hearts of the well-wishers of humanity.  AB01534

Among these teachings was the independent investigation of reality... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the oneness of the world of humanity... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that religion must be the cause of fellowship and love... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that religion must be in conformity with science and reason... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that religious, racial, political, economic and patriotic prejudices destroy the edifice of humanity... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the origination of one language... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the equality of women and men... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is voluntary sharing of one's property with others among mankind... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is man's freedom... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that religion is a mighty bulwark... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that although material civilization is one of the means for the progress of the world of mankind, yet until it becomes combined with Divine civilization, the desired result, which is the felicity of mankind, will not be attained... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the promotion of education... And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah are justice and right.  AB00016

Among the teachings is the independent investigation of truth, and among the teachings is that religion must be the cause of fellowship, unity and oneness, not the cause of alienation. If religion becomes the cause of bloodshed, it has no necessity for the human world. And among the teachings is that religion must conform to science and reason, not be superstitions that reason can in no way verify. There are many such teachings. Among the teachings is universal peace, the details of which are explained in the tablets. You will become informed. These heavenly teachings issued from the Supreme Pen fifty years ago and each one of these teachings is at work, dawning upon general consciousness. AB02100

Act in accordance with the counsels of the Lord: that is, rise up in such wise, and with such qualities, as to endow the body of this world with a living soul, and to bring this young child, humanity, to the stage of adulthood. So far as ye are able, ignite a candle of love in every meeting, and with tenderness rejoice and cheer ye every heart. Care for the stranger as for one of your own; show to alien souls the same loving kindness ye bestow upon your faithful friends. Should any come to blows with you, seek to be friends with him; should any stab you to the heart, be ye a healing salve unto his sores; should any taunt and mock at you, meet him with love. Should any heap his blame upon you, praise ye him; should he offer you a deadly poison, give him the choicest honey in exchange; and should he threaten your life, grant him a remedy that will heal him evermore. Should he be pain itself, be ye his medicine; should he be thorns, be ye his roses and sweet herbs. Perchance such ways and words from you will make this darksome world turn bright at last; will make this dusty earth turn heavenly, this devilish prison place become a royal palace of the Lord -- so that war and strife will pass and be no more, and love and trust will pitch their tents on the summits of the world. Such is the essence of God's admonitions; such in sum are the teachings for the Dispensation of Baha.  AB00915

The Teachings of His Holiness Baha'u'llah declare the oneness of the world of humanity; cause religion to be the foundation of union and accord in the world; become conducive to good fellowship among the children of men; conform religion with science and reason; take away political prejudices and race prejudices; uphold the doctrine of perfect equality between men and women; espouse the cause of an international auxiliary language; foster the universalization of education; readjust and equalize in the most perfect manner the economic relations of the social structure; destroy totally the basis of hostility and ill-will from amongst mankind; constitute the five continents as one continent; suffer the various races of men to become as one race; rend asunder entirely the veils of superstitions; reveal in the assemblage of humanity the light of Truth; illumine the hearts with the rays of guidance; resurrect the spirits with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and baptize the souls with the water of Life Eternal, the fire of the love of God and the outpouring of the Divine Spirit. AB05484

"The objective aims are the oneness of the world of humanity, Universal Peace, Universal Love, international Cooperation and reciprocity, the founding of divine Civilization, the promotion of the principle of human consanguinity and solidarity and the establishment of the Kingdom of God, first in the hearts of men and then upon earth."  ABU2627

