acquire the art of poetry and composition   AB04244

Poetry and composition belong to the arts of rhetoric and expression.   AB06345

O thou who stringest the pearls of gleaming, luminous and resplendent verse, the pure and chaste poetry! The composition was noted. It was the melody of the nightingale of meanings and the song of the divine nightingale. It was the high notes of the dove of the gardens and the cooing of the mystic dove in the rose-garden of realities. In truth, it flowed with utmost fluidity like running water and possessed the highest eloquence and grace - the speech of the sugar-eating parrot. Poetry should be thus - it should be a melody of the highest heaven and a song of the supreme paradise.   AB09543


Art without the subtle music of the spirit which is only heard by the still small voice; art without the spiritual inspiration of the higher spheres; art without the infinite waves and vibrations of the super-human; art without the tender messages of the anemones and hyacinths of the spiritual rose-garden is not art but artifice. Therefore you must make an effort to master both branches of Art.   ABU1223

The poems of Aqa Mirza Ali-Akbar were read - they were delightful, sweet and sugary, eloquent, fluent and pleasing.  AB09320

We have carefully read the ghazal which was in the utmost eloquence and excellence, with sweet and delightful themes  AB07617

How simple and delicate it is, such that one imagines they could write something similar! But alas, alas - not even one word of it could they write. This style is what is called "easily inaccessible." Ibn Quraya was the King of Poets, and once when all the poets were present before the Caliph, each one recited their laudatory ode and the Caliph praised them. But Ibn Quraya was behind everyone and did not utter a word. So the Caliph asked, "What happened to your ode?" He replied that he had not composed an ode. The Caliph said, "No matter, compose even just two verses right now impromptu," and he spontaneously recited these two verses:  "The Caliphate came to you submissively, Trailing its robes behind it; It was not suitable except for you, And you were not suitable except for it." And despite all the envy the poets bore him, they all showed humility before those two verses, even though they are extremely simple and unadorned. ABU1603


Now instead of planting trees over the tombs they placed pieces of carved woods. For example if the deceased was brave they would carve the crude form of a lion; if crafty that of a fox and if blood-thirsty that of a dragon. Another monumental advancement was achieved when they started to carve these pictures with some improvements and more artistic taste on the bark of the trees and placing them in the grave with the dead. As humanity slowly forged ahead, gaining mastery step by step over nature he started to build monuments of triumphs over the tombs.  ABU0806

I hope thou wilt acquire great proficiency in writing literature, composition, eloquence of tongue and fluency of speech  AB08884

"The drama is of the utmost importance." said Abdu'l-Baha. "It has been a great educational power in the past; it will be so again."  ABU3551

The verses which thou hadst strung like a string of pearls were noted. Each verse was a masterpiece, and every word was like ruby and pearl.  AB08771

The brilliant ode which you had composed was read. Indeed in eloquence, rhetoric, innovation and exposition it showed the essence of clear expression  AB03840

The Master discusses theater as a metaphor for spiritual reality, describing a divine theater with eternal springtime, pure actors, and sublime dramas  ABU2037

"Therefore, as long as thou canst, endeavor to show forth new and fresh meanings from thy poetry and cause joy, gladness, mirth and longing to the spiritual ones."  AB06236

In brief, divine secretaries express spiritual meanings, and the eloquent and articulate ones of the wondrous art display, like the spring season, the flowers of truth  AB06577

Its significance was beautiful, its composition eloquent and its words excellent. All poems shall be forgotten in the course of time save those that are extraordinary   AB07021

shining through the mind of a poet, it is seen in fine poetry and poetic prose. When the Light of the Sun of Truth inspires the mind of a painter, he produces marvellous pictures.   ABU3051

Art is identical with an act of worship, and you must go on with your art and improve in it; and through this very Cause you will be able to make great progress in your art, for you will be helped from Above.   ABU2119

They say that among the painters of the world, Mani was skilled in Iran and Raphael was famous in Europe. Mani demonstrated such mastery in this art that he could draw a circle with his artistic pen that had no imperfection whatsoever. Now if that one intoxicated with the divine cup seeks complete proficiency in the art of drawing and illustration, he must strive until the image of the Concourse on High is reflected in the mirror of the world below, and those celestial forms draw back the veil in every realm of the material world. If the contingent world becomes confirmed with this gift of the All-Merciful, then this world will become a Most Glorious Paradise. AB07288

Say: O assemblage of the learned! By God, neither your intricate verses, nor your embellished words, nor your riddles and enigmas, nor your palindromes will profit you this Day. Cast them aside in My Name, then take what your Lord of the worlds commandeth you.   BH00566

Human nature is more affected by poetry than prose. Poems have a different influence, and odes and lyrics have another radiance. I hope that you will progress to such a degree that you will surpass the poets of old and acquire complete mastery in all forms of poetry  AB04635

Can you paint upon the page of the world the ideal pictures of the Supreme Concourse? The pictures which are in the ideal world are eternal. I desire you to become such an Artist. Man can paint those ideal pictures upon the Tablet of existence with the brush of deeds.  ABU2866

The context was elegant. The words were eloquent and the theme, the Manifest Light. Consequently, it was highly appreciated. Endeavor, so far as it is possible for thee, that day by day thou mayest string the pearls of poesy with sweeter rhythm and more eloquent contents  AB09795

While travelling throughout Europe and America I observed that the names of the poets of Shiraz - Saadi and Hafiz - were often on the lips of men. Their poems and lyrics were translated into many languages and their poetic and philosophic thoughts are quoted by their literary men.   ABU0504

This world of being is an inscribed book and an unfurled scroll. If thou art able, write with majestic pen upon this contingent page the praises and attributes of the Blessed Beauty, and record in the mighty tablet of creation unique odes and the qualities of the Most Great Luminary  AB09343

The Arabic verse was scattered pearls possessing abundant eloquence and rhetoric, the Turkish poetry like brilliant stars causing wonderment to the masters of eloquence and rhetoric, the Persian verses like flowing water and the pure water of life, with endless sweetness and infinite eloquence.   AB03877

The Herald of the Kingdom stands before the people. Wonderful music swells from an unseen orchestra, moving and soul-inspiring. The music becomes soft, while the Herald proclaims the coming of the Kingdom. He holds a trumpet to his mouth. The curtain rises. The stage is crowded with men and women.  All are asleep. At the sound of the trumpet they begin to awake.... ABU0092

In America the houses are decorated with costly portraits and pictures of men and women. They pay fabulous prices for these works of art and ancient paintings which are not at all appreciated by the Eastern people. Raphael is one of their most celebrated masters in painting and his portraits are almost priceless.   ABU2494

As for theater, if it is within the bounds of propriety and causes improvement of morals, promotion of education, adjustment of society, encouragement of human virtues and universal education, it is most desirable. But if it is based on jest and mockery and outside the bounds of sanctity and promotes lusts, it is certainly forbidden.  AB01697

Train your children from their youth in the art of beautiful penmanship, learning from those who write in the most impregnable glory and display the finest craftsmanship. Say: The criterion of your writing, if ye wish to be just, is that were someone to write a thousand thousand times, not a single letter would vary. BB00003

The plays must always elevate the ideals of humanity and not degrade them. The theatre is like unto a school and the playwrights must ever think how to educate the people through the characterizations of noble ideals and personalities. The actors must embody in their uttered words and deeds, while upon the stage, the noblest emotions, the highest motives, the most delicate art, the tenderest feelings and the most attractive manners.   ABU3072

The composition was noted. It was the melody of the nightingale of meanings and the song of the divine nightingale. It was the high notes of the dove of the gardens and the cooing of the mystic dove in the rose-garden of realities. In truth, it flowed with utmost fluidity like running water and possessed the highest eloquence and grace - the speech of the sugar-eating parrot. Poetry should be thus - it should be a melody of the highest heaven and a song of the supreme paradise.  AB09543

O painter! Beseech the favors of the Most Great Name - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - that you may paint upon the canvas of contingent existence a design that matches the pattern of the realm beyond, and that you may depict upon the simple surface of the earth the exalted forms of the Abha Kingdom and holy designs conforming to the Concourse on High.  AB08279

