The miracles of Christ were spiritual teachings, not literal.   ABU3618

Do not worship the Lantern-worship the light.   ABU3423

Such is the view that hath been expounded and considered sufficient in the literal interpretations. While confirming such interpretations, the people of truth, they who consider the hidden realities and inner significances, have carefully examined this blessed verse and unraveled therein other far-reaching meanings.  AB00447

Through their ignorance of these meanings people have always remained veiled from the manifestations of the bounties of Him Who is the Causer of Causes. Although in the divine scriptures mention is made of a heaven and an earth other than the physical heaven and earth, yet they have interpreted these signs literally and have deprived themselves of spiritual worlds and divine knowledge.   ABU2981

The Egyptian history recorded even trifling events. Had such a wonderful thing happened as the parting of the physical sea, it would also have been recorded.   ABU2417

As for the passages you extracted from the holy books - those that conform to true knowledge, reason and divine wisdom are according to their outward meaning, while other passages all have interpretations that conform to reason, knowledge and wisdom. God willing, you will discover this matter. My hope is that through divine confirmation you will discover the interpretation of all these matters.  AB00801

The story about the dove is simply a metaphor. No dove came down.   ABU3339

"Alas, alas! the world has not discovered the reality of religion hidden beneath the symbolic forms!"   ABU0873

The religionists of the world have forsaken the essence of the teaching and hold to the letter.  ABU1070

One of the greatest veils is literal interpretation of the prophecies.   ABU0468

The holy books are full of significance and must never be taken literally.  ABU1349

Take not from the Book that which is ambiguous therein, but take what God hath made firm   BH07633


"One of the veils is literal interpretation. To penetrate the inner significances a mighty effort is needed."  ABU1804

"Then he spoke how the Jews expected the descent of Christ from heaven, while in reality there is no [literal] heaven."  ABU0877

they are still waiting for stars to fall from heaven, even though each star is many times larger than the earth  ABU2441

The Jewish divines interpreted the Torah according to their own desires and not through the discovery of truth.  AB07601

The ages of those ancient prophets as recorded in the old Testament is symbolic. It has a spiritual interpretation.  ABU3368

"Some of the servants make their own interpretations to justify certain things as lawful, without any evidence from God."   BH02354

But because the people who received these teachings from the first teachers were ignorant, they understood them literally   ABU3231

'You cannot always take the literal interpretation of first-century Syria or eighth-century Arabia and say in its application it is true now.'  ABU2096

Religious people are prevented from accepting God's teachings due to literal interpretation. They did not understand that the conditions were symbolical.  ABU0875

"Their meaning is not that of the literal signification of the words, yet this was the meaning accepted by the Israelites. They did not know the symbols."  ABU0401

Another faction took the signs and tokens of the Manifestation according to common interpretation and remained heedless of the true purpose of the Lord of mankind.  AB06267

Your likeness is as one who holdeth fast to a single letter, turning away from the Most Great Book wherein are revealed the mysteries of what hath been and what shall be.  BH00328

You are well aware that the verses relating to the Hour and its signs are all allegorical, and none knows their interpretation save God and those well-grounded in knowledge.   AB00223

It is therefore clear and evident that these signs have inner meanings and should not be taken literally. These meanings have been fully explained in the Kitab-i-Iqan: Refer to it.  AB00570

The middle ages were the ages of obscurity. Those who investigated, groped in the darkness of doubt and hesitation, the nations held blindly to traditions which were easily proved false.   ABU0839

Most of the Jews had memorized the texts of the Old Testament and repeated them night and day, but inasmuch as they were ignorant of the meanings, they were deprived of the bounties of Christ.   ABU0523

The Jewish scholars do not acknowledge the miracles of Christ, and likewise the Christian scholars do not acknowledge the miracles of the Prophet [Muhammad], and similarly the European philosophers and natural historians deny the miracles of Moses, and each raise various objections, especially the European philosophers who have published many works on this subject. Therefore, either all must be taken literally and decisive proof established for their occurrence and manifestation, or all must be interpreted allegorically.  AB00503

Leave the people of allusions in their vain imaginings and take what hath been sent down unto thee of verses whereby the sincere ones shall soar unto a station that hath been praised in the name of God  BH06141

Therefore, offer thanks to God that you have attained unto reality, have responded affirmatively to the Call of God, have given up dogmatic imitations and have become cognizant of the mystery of oneness.  ABU1619

One said the glorious Law with its decisive texts is permanent in its ordinances and eternal in its application, while another said the Great Resurrection is conditional upon mighty events and occurrences.  AB00547

Thus the interpreters resorted to weak interpretations of this blessed verse to make it conform with those ancient principles accepted by the people, abandoning the clear meaning that matched reality with manifest proof.  AB00289

But if all had looked only at the dawning points, they would have remained veiled like the Jews when the Sun of Truth appeared from another place. Today the Baha'is look at the Sun of Truth and not at the dawning point.   ABU2143

They say prayers have been taken from the scripture. Now in this leaf a prayer for hastening hath been written whose content and expressions exist in no prayer. The deceitful ones recite it though they understand it not.   BB00119

When Jesus Christ was manifested, the Jews looked at the verses of the Old Testament literally, outwardly, and were hindered because they did not understand. The outward meaning of the verses was the cause of their hinderance.  ABU0076

They have come to realize that its true meaning is exemplified in the verses, 'the Faithful Spirit [Gabriel] hath come down with it [the Qur'an] upon Thy [Muhammad's] heart', and that all other interpretations are but idle fancies.  ABU3680

Although in the divine scriptures mention is made of a heaven and an earth other than the physical heaven and earth, yet they have interpreted these signs literally and have deprived themselves of spiritual worlds and divine knowledge.   ABU2981

The apostles upon many occasions partook of material food with His Highness Christ, yet the supper of that night became designated as the "Lord's Supper." From this designation it is plain and evident that they ate heavenly food at that supper.  AB07479

"They receive traditions while they themselves are but tales and images. They recite the Qur'an while being heedless of its proof. They pray night and day, but their prayer is naught but whistling and clapping, without any doubt or uncertainty."  AB00715

Many who have not understood what Christ meant by baptism think if a child dies without passing through this ceremony its soul is lost! But this is not true, for the child has not sinned and goes from this world quite free from faults and defects!  ABU1107

In brief, all the veiled peoples clung to the literal meanings of their Books and remained deprived of the Lord of Lords. Beware, beware, O people of the Bayan, lest ye be deprived of the Divine Beauty through the Book and the Vahid of the Bayan.   AB00089

They have seized upon the outer meanings of what was revealed in the Book and remained veiled from Him Who revealed it on the day of His most great manifestation with power and majesty, when He was established upon the throne with grandeur and glory.  AB00014

Among the binding counsels and explicit admonitions of the Most Great Name is this: that ye should close fast the gates of interpretation and cleave unto the clear meaning of the Book, that is to say, unto the literal meaning current among the people.  AB11886

Steeped in the literal interpretation and imitating the beliefs of fathers and ancestors, they failed to understand the fact that although the body of Jesus came from Nazareth, the reality of the Christ came from the unknown place of the divine Kingdom.  ABU0019

Even Muslims who previously believed in Gabriel's wings now understand that what is meant by this term is the holy power of revelation and divine verses. They have understood that "the Spirit of Truth descended upon your heart" means anything else is illusion.  ABU1158

Yet these wayward people are like unto spiders: no sooner dost thou rend their web than they immediately spin a new one, for this veiling proceedeth from their very essence. When a matter is inherent in the essence of a thing, separation from it is impossible.   AB00082

For one thousand two hundred years they disputed about the Qa'im, the Guardian, the Successor, the Chief, the Noble One, the Shaykhi, and so forth, and were occupied with denouncing one another as infidels. Now too the deniers cling to the same vain imaginings.   BH05490

Indeed, one of the chief reasons for irreligion among people is that the leaders of religion, such as the Catholic priests, take a little bread and wine, blow a breath over it and then say that the bread is the flesh of Christ and the wine is the blood of Christ.   ABU1968

Those who fail to grasp the symbolic meanings and instead focus solely on the literal meanings are like those who follow only the letter of the law while missing its spirit. Such literal interpretations have prevented many from recognizing the true meaning of the verses.  BH00002

But since they took them literally, they turned away in pride, saying This Promised One is not that Promised One. Thus did the Jews interpret these passages, and when Christ appeared, the Jewish scholars said, This Christ is not that Christ, this is not the Promised One.  ABU0103

An unbeliever in the time of Jesus Christ once said that Jesus Christ was an ignorant man; that He did not know geography for He thought He could see all the world from the top of a mountain. If he had had this explained to him, he would, probably, have believed in Jesus Christ.  ABU0320

The delusions of interpretation cannot alter the clear and decisive text, and the winds of the desert cannot cut off from the horizons the fragrance of the rose-garden of the Kingdom. But as for those in whose hearts is perversity, they follow the part thereof that is ambiguous.  AB02540

For a thousand years and more, imaginary creatures who deemed themselves the gems of existence were gazing toward and turned to an imaginary city, an unknown cellar, and a precinct of fancy. And from time to time mention was made of communications that would emerge from that precinct.  BH00325

yet remained veiled from their Revealer when He appeared, and clinging to their own imaginings and holding fast to the Book, were deprived of its Revealer and remained veiled from the Mother Book. They passed by the Sweet Ocean and turned instead to the river of their own vain fancies   BH09815

The interpreters are those who discard the manifest and exalted Truth, and with the axe of conjecture carve out idols of fancy, then bow down before their own handiwork in worship and submission, all the while counting themselves among the worshippers of Truth and those detached unto God.  BH00004

In the verses, some matters were revealed according to the capacity of the questioner and beliefs of that time. For instance, in the Quran the matter of Dhul-Qarnayn and Gog and Magog - since the questioners conceived it thus, it was revealed allegorically according to their understanding.  ABU2335

In like manner all the other signs have been made manifest, but the Jews did not understand. Although nearly twenty centuries have elapsed since Christ appeared with divine splendour, yet the Jews are still awaiting the coming of the Messiah and regard themselves as true and Christ as false.  AB00645

Now observe how deluded are those deniers who have cast these words upon you. It seems they have not attained to a single letter of the divine words' meanings, nor have they received a drop from the ocean of divine glory. Woe unto them and to what their selves and desires have commanded them.  BH00004

For instance, if we look upon the Catholic religion we see that they believe that an important part is the transubstantiation; that is, the change of the bread and wine into the body of Christ. If we ponder a little we realize that this is a non-essential. It is imitation and the reverse of reality.  ABU0089

The Orthodox Jews according to the literal interpretation of a number of passages in the Old Testament, of course are holding such a belief but the growing literary and intellectual party, having cast away the enthusiasm born out of ignorance, discredit the whole proposition as nothing else but a dream.   ABU0953

When Christ came they denounced and slew Him, saying: 'This is not the One for whom we wait. Behold when the Messiah shall come, signs and wonders shall testify that He is in truth the Christ. We know the signs and conditions, and they have not appeared. The Messiah will arise out of an unknown city. He shall sit upon the throne of David, and behold, He shall come with a sword of steel, and with a sceptre of iron shall He rule! He shall fulfil the law of the Prophets, He shall conquer the East and the West, and shall glorify His chosen people the Jews. He shall bring with Him a reign of peace, during which even the animals shall cease to be at enmity with man. For behold the wolf and the lamb shall drink from the same spring, and the lion and the doe shall lie down in the same pasture, the serpent and the mouse shall share the same nest, and all God's creatures shall be at rest'. According to the Jews, Jesus the Christ fulfilled none of these conditions, for their eyes were holden and they could not see.  ABU0473

How astonishing that ye still stand at the threshold of names! Well done! How faithfully ye have acted upon the divine counsel! Ye have become so heedless that ye worship and cling to mere names, continuously making mention of them while drawing the sword of malice against that by which the names subsist, and ye perceive it not.  BH00004

The Jews, likewise, at the time of His manifestation held to outward and visible expectation of the fulfillment of the prophecies. They said, "The Messiah shall appear from heaven. This man came from Nazareth; we know his house; we know his parents and people. It is only hearsay that he descended from heaven; this cannot be proved."  ABU0316

Though I swear by the Sun of sanctified glory that the veiled ones among this people are seen to be more veiled than all others, to such an extent that they have nearly become veiled from a hundred thousand manifest divine powers and revealed heavenly verses by some malicious report, nay rather, they rise up in rejection and opposition.  BH00004

There is yet a third method of acquiring knowledge, by revelation, or the Inspired Books; but the difficulty in this case is that every person's interpretation of the Book is colored by his own individuality. In the time of Jesus Christ, the Jews were prevented from accepting Him, by clinging to the literal interpretation of their Book.   ABU0484

But the long lives mentioned in certain books and narratives have a different basis. For instance, it was a custom in former times to mention a dynasty or family by the name of one person only. However, the people in the following ages thought that the length of time that a family survived was the length of the life of that family's founder.  ABU2724

This Voltaire took the Gospel's words literally in common parlance, being ignorant that Satan refers to the natural human world that encourages man toward moral vices, including the struggle for survival, savagery, corrupt morals, lewdness and debauchery, frivolity, lack of honor, and bloodthirstiness like fierce beasts - all of which stem from the natural world.   AB00166

All nations are worshippers of names, not of realities. The Jews worshiped the name of Moses, but they knew him not. Christians worship a name instead of the truth. Mohammedans worship a name, not the truth. Had all been worshipping the truth they would have recognized it easily in any form, so that now they would be united in faith and no diversity would have appeared among them.   ABU0712

And their conviction is such that were a person to be made manifest with all the promised signs and to promulgate that which is contrary to the letter of the law of the Gospel, they must assuredly renounce him, refuse to submit to his law, declare him an infidel, and laugh him to scorn. This is proved by that which came to pass when the sun of the Muhammadan Revelation was revealed.  BH00002

They clung to vain imaginings and, through literal interpretation of the Book, were deprived of Him Who revealed the Book. And this although the Primal Point explicitly states that on the Day of His manifestation, none should be veiled by the Book and what was revealed therein, nor by the Letters of the Living and the Unity of the Bayan, of which His blessed Person was the nineteenth.  ABU0215

This mention of Truth and object of Truth - the likes of thee are among those servants who have worshipped vain imaginings for a thousand years, just as your divines have conceived an imaginary Qa'im, assigned him a birth, proven it through numerous traditions, given him an abode in Jabulqa and Jabulsa, and cited so many traditions to establish this matter whose very foundation was mere fancy.  BH01053

That which is contained in the Holy Books is full of mystery, full of meaning. Those who do not understand, take it in a literal way: I hope that you will investigate the reality of the meanings and understand. For example, Christ said: "I am the bread which came down from Heaven; whosoever partakes, will receive Everlasting Life." By the Bread of Heaven Christ meant the Heavenly Benediction.   ABU0335

Clinging unto idle fancy, they have strayed far from the 'Urvatu'l-Vuthqa of divine knowledge. Their hearts seem not to be inclined to knowledge and the door thereof, neither think they of its manifestations, inasmuch as in idle fancy they have found the door that leadeth unto earthly riches, whereas in the manifestation of the Revealer of knowledge they find naught but the call to self-sacrifice.  BH00002

That holy and eternal Being was the Herald of this glorious and divine Revelation, and now all besides God stand at one level and one station. Whosoever hath become assured and hath faced Him, upon him have shone the lights of the never-setting Sun, and he is mentioned as being of the people of God in all the Tablets, and besides this all are unmentioned and are and shall be consigned to the fire.   BH00339

But as for those Jewish doctors, Christian priests and monks who read them - verily, they know only the letter, uttering the words like parrots, without understanding their inner meanings. They comprehend them not at all, because they are engrossed in worldly desires and their hearts are attached to its ornaments. Verily, are they not heedless of God, understanding nothing and finding not the right path?  AB08374

Today it behoveth each one of the people of God to pass beyond the gulf of names, through divine strength and power, that they may find their way to the Most Great Ocean. Consider ye the peoples of former ages and centuries: certain souls who clung to names and who, night and day, occupied themselves with disputation and opposition, accounting themselves the most learned of all peoples and the most excellent of all nations.  BH11646

But people did not listen and did not believe in this, so the blessed verse was revealed: "The likeness of those who were entrusted with the Torah and Gospel, then did not carry it, is like a donkey carrying books." For they argued based on the outer meanings of the sacred books, taking them according to their conventions and understanding, while denying the realities of its meanings which none knows except a near angel or a sent prophet   AB00028

"These texts are symbolic. They have an inner meaning. I possess sovereignty, but it is of the eternal type. It is not an earthy empire. Mine is divine, heavenly, everlasting. And I conquer not by the sword. My conquests are by Love. I have a sword, but it is not of iron. My sword is My tongue, which divides Truth from falsehood." Yet they persisted in rejecting Him. "These are mere interpretations," they said. "We will not give up the letter for these."  ABU0668

According to the text of Isaiah, they were expecting Christ to come from heaven, to come from an unknown place, and when Christ came the mountains would crumble and there would be a great earthquake. And these things truly occurred, but they did not understand the symbolism and were not aware that the meaning of mountains was not rocky mountains but rather souls like mountains that were scattered, and the earthquake was in the world of thoughts, not in the world of dust.  ABU0421

Now inasmuch as the Jews were submerged in the sea of ancestral imitations, they could not comprehend the meaning of these prophecies. All the words of the prophets were fulfilled, but because the Jews held tenaciously to hereditary interpretations, they did not understand the inner meanings of the Holy Bible; therefore, they denied Jesus Christ, the Messiah. The purpose of the prophetic words was not the outward or literal meaning, but the inner symbolical significance.   ABU0027

The meaning of the unknown place, i.e. of the other world, was the world of God, but did not understand this, but thoughts it meant from an unknown city. Secondly: The scepter must be of iron, i.e. he would appear with a sword, while His Holiness Christ did not possess even a wooden stick. The meaning of an iron scepter or the sword or the sword is the tongue of His Holiness which divided the truth from untruth, or truth from falsehood. But the Jews thought that the sword was to be of iron.   ABU1558

"As to the record in the Bible concerning Adam's entering paradise, His eating from the tree and His expulsion through the temptation of Satan: These are all symbols beneath which there are wonderful and divine meanings not to be calculated in years, dates and measurement of time. Likewise, the statement that God created the heaven and the earth in six days is symbolic. We will not explain this further today. The texts of the Holy Books are all symbolical, needing authoritative interpretation."  ABU0403

The object of reading and reciting is to understand the inner significance of the verses and mysteries of the Book. Had reading sufficed, all the Jewish people should have acknowledged Christ but as they lacked understanding of the mysteries and the inner meanings, they were deprived of the bounty of believing in Him. They interpreted the book in a literal or outward manner and did not find the appearance of Christ to conform to their traditions, imitations and the prevailing customs of their people, so they denied and rejected Him.  ABU2749

By what did the Jewish people take hold when they adorned that Beloved One with the cross? They only clung to the outward meanings of the verses of the Torah and were deprived of that Messianic grace. They held fast to the text of the Torah and remained veiled from Him Who revealed the Torah. AB00067


Notwithstanding this, we read in Genesis in the Old Testament that the lifetime of creation is but six thousand years. This has an inner meaning and significance; it is not to be taken literally. For instance, it is said in the Old Testament that certain things were created in the first day. The narrative shows that at that time the sun was not yet created. How could we conceive of a day if no sun existed in the heavens? For the day depends upon the light of the sun. Inasmuch as the sun had not been made, how could the first day be realized? Therefore, these statements have significances other than literal. ABU0033

Note that if these words were taken literally, as imagined by the people of the Book, it would be sheer injustice and absolute predestination. If Adam sinned in approaching the forbidden tree, what then was the sin of glorious Abraham, the Friend of God, and the error of Moses, Who conversed with God? What was the offence of Noah the Prophet and the transgression of truth-speaking Joseph? What was the fault of the Prophets of God and the failure of John the Chaste? Would divine justice have suffered these luminous Manifestations to endure, by reason of Adam's sin, the torment of hell until such time as Christ should come and by His sacrifice rescue them from the nethermost fire? Such a notion is beyond the pale of every rule and principle and no rational person can ever accept it.   AB00100

It is evident then that we must not look at the dawning places but at the real sun. The dawning places vary, but the sun does not vary. In whatever point it may appear it is always the sun. Now all the followers of the great religions of the world are veiled because they are looking at the old dawning places and are not watching for the coming of the Sun. Your lover must love you, not your house. If he really loves you he will recognize you in whatever house you may appear; but if he is attached to the house, he will not find you if you appear in a new house. All nations are worshippers of names, not of realities. The Jews worshiped the name of Moses, but they knew him not. Christians worship a name instead of the truth. Mohammedans worship a name, not the truth. Had all been worshipping the truth they would have recognized it easily in any form, so that now they would be united in faith and no diversity would have appeared among them.   ABU0712
