

The disease which afflicts the body politic is lack of love and absence of altruism. In the hearts of men no real love is found, and the condition is such that, unless their susceptibilities are quickened by some power so that unity, love and accord may develop within them, there can be no healing, no agreement among mankind. Love and unity are the needs of the body politic today. Without these there can be no progress or prosperity attained. Therefore, the friends of God must adhere to the power which will create this love and unity in the hearts of the sons of men. Science cannot cure the illness of the body politic. Science cannot create amity and fellowship in human hearts. Neither can patriotism nor racial allegiance effect a remedy. It must be accomplished solely through the divine bounties and spiritual bestowals which have descended from God in this day for that purpose. This is an exigency of the times, and the divine remedy has been provided. The spiritual teachings of the religion of God can alone create this love, unity and accord in human hearts.  ABU1450


In all the heavenly Books, the command to love and unity hath been given  BH02395

Toleration leads to association, association to sympathy, sympathy to love and where the light of love enters all the darkness of misunderstandings vanish.  ABU3050


My word is the word of love   ABU3423

God has ever loved unity and harmony.  BH00070

the foundation of this assembly is the oneness of the world of humanity, and its system is love between all people, and its principles are the abandonment of racial, religious, denominational, national and political prejudices, for all these prejudices are delusions.  AB00737

Fill the world with the spirit of Love.   ABU3416

the foundation must be love and unity   ABU1327

Supplicate God that ye may become heavenly hosts, spreading the oneness of the world of humanity, taking in hand the armor of peace and conquering the hearts with the sword of love.  AB05666

love and peace bring heaven down to earth  ABU3332

I hope that thou mayest be enriched by the praiseworthy station, enter into the realm of manifestation, become aware of the mystery of existence, and attain to the highest summit of ascent. This is not difficult for God to accomplish. This station is achieved through detachment and attraction, through effacement and evanescence, through love and kindness, and through peace and harmony towards all humanity.  AB08845

the loved ones are engaged in love and affection   BH10810

proceed with the utmost love, show forth fellowship  AB02592

brought about fellowship, unity, joy and fragrance   AB12119

"Upon you, O loved ones of God, be unity and concord."  AB03575

Seek not war but peace, desire not conflict and strife.  AB09399

We should love people because they are God's creatures.  ABU3262

the spreaders of heavenly Love amongst the children of men  ABU1561

That they may show peacefulness and reconciliation unto all.  AB03783

thou art urging for peace, quietness, unity and affiliation   AB11523

you must act with utmost love and unity towards all the friends  AB06256

Sow the seeds of love in the heart and not the seeds of hatred.  ABU3384


Say that you are one with all. Be a true well-wisher of people.   ABU2426

to cultivate love for all the world; to attain beatific character  AB04430

Do not spend your life in vain. Make every stranger into a friend.  AB05366

Consider the members of humanity as thy own brothers and sisters.   ABU2935

raise up the standard of unity, harmony and love in the human world  AB03095

with heart and soul desire peace and reconciliation for all people   AB04906

God cherisheth love and union, and He abhoreth enmity and oppression.   AB07236

Show to all humankind every manner of kindliness, love and fellowship.   AB06291

That is as it should be--the world one brotherhood, loving one another!   ABU3241

Consider how much love I have for you that I accept no excuse whatsoever   AB05038

You should try to show the greatest love to all men and to every creature.   ABU2676

This servant also, with utmost love and faithfulness, fulfilled his request   AB06088

thou mayest bestow upon the world truthfulness, fellowship and reconciliation  AB10979

The foundation of God's Cause rests upon love and the unity of the human world  ABU1826

They must love each other and banish all the phantasms of suspicion and doubt.   ABU1582

From this it appears that the friends of God are making efforts and are united.  AB12167

Therefore seek the adornment of the human world and show forth love and kindness.  AB03226

The best of all deeds is to show forth love towards all the peoples of the world.   BH00771

"Today is the day of utterance and exposition, and the day of unity and harmony."   BH01896

I love you all, you are the children of the Kingdom, and you are accepted of God.   ABU3174

Another commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another even as I love you.   ABU1702

After my arrival there, undoubtedly I will meet your friends with the utmost love.  AB11997

"Soon shall we all be gathered beneath the shade of the mercy of His Divine Unity"  AB02393

Blessed is he who mingleth with all men in a spirit of utmost kindliness and love.   BH06328

Praise be to God, its contents indicated an increase in fellowship, love and unity.  AB08002

becomes a lover of all humanity and a well-wisher of all peoples and races of mankind  AB05726

"casting into the corner of forgetfulness every matter but that of unity and harmony"   ABU2036

Why should we hate the members of other religions? Why should we not love each other?   ABU2326

O faithful servant of the Ancient Beauty and harmonious friend of this nonexistent one!  AB03951

The purpose of human life is divine knowledge and love and kindness toward all creation.  AB02502

it must produce in our hearts a love of God, which must be transmuted into love for man   ABU2607

I have seen a great love and affection in you, as well as in the professors and scholars.  ABU2468

They wish for peace and tranquillity and they desire fellowship and love among humanity.   ABU3159

Strive that love and good fellowship may replace intolerance and that narrowness of dogmatism   ABU1561

Your honor must strive with the utmost diligence to refine souls and promote unity and concord   BH06554

Ever strive to show love, unity, kindness and good conduct toward all the peoples of the world.  AB04246

They sacrificed even life for one another and were chained in the links of love for each other.  AB01368

Convey the utmost love to thy respected husband and embrace and show utmost affection to Mona.   AB11960

At all times, man must be a mine of compassion and love, and associate with all people with joy.  ABU3473

Show forth the utmost love to all the peoples of the world and the diverse kindreds of the earth.   BH07545

the note of harmony which vibrates in every human heart ... is our subtle basis. Build upon it. Follow no other method. Talk about things upon which we agree and say nothing about things upon which we differ. We must disorganize humanism in order to construct a spiritual edifice in the world of humanity. This edifice is heavenly but its foundations are planted in the unity of human hearts.  ABU2289


Truly the Persian friends desire peace and reconciliation with all peoples and seek truth-worship.   AB01609

that the friends are kind unto all the people of the world and self-sacrificing servants of mankind  AB01956

I hope you will be assisted to do great service and to live together in the utmost love and harmony.  ABU1835

showing kindness to all humanity, and loving peace and fellowship with all the peoples of the world   AB00554

"He it is Who has manifested His Cause and fulfilled His promise and called all to unity and accord."   BH02182

They should instill love between the hearts of God's servants...reveal the mysteries of the love of God  AB01844

We beseech God to purify hearts from these two and to adorn them with the ornament of love and fellowship  BH05180

love for all God's creatures is mentioned as one of the key attributes that attracts divine confirmations  AB03807

People have come to realize that in unity there lies strength; in concentration of purpose there is power  ABU2808

Now the time has come when we must part, but the separation is only of our bodies, in spirit we are united.   ABU1702

What is needed today is the unity and agreement of the friends. All must exert mighty efforts in this regard.   BH00754


strive as much as you can to be in utmost love and harmony with all the peoples of the world and all religions  AB12211

be a great bounty for the people of the world, and show love and kindness to humankind to the extent possible   AB05546

mayest promulgate the divine teachings, so that the various people may find unity and become freed from discord  AB11097

All the beloved are commanded today to associate with one another in fellowship, unity, humility and lowliness.   BH00418

I always beg of God that thou wilt day by day increase in love and that thy heart will become more illuminated.   AB05525

O people of Baha! You have been and are the dawning-places of love and the daysprings of divine grace and bounty  ABU1751

"By the absence of love, enmity increases. By the exercise of love, love strengthens and enmities dwindle away."  ABU0543

Today love and affection and friendship and unity are regarded as the greatest of all deeds in the sight of God.   BH02299

Indeed through the efforts of the friends, the world of creation may find rest and war and strife may be removed.   AB02220

We are now corresponding with one another - truly we are of one heart, sharing secrets, in harmony and of one voice  AB03407

when hearts face each other and thought and contemplation take hold, connection and unity and harmony become realized  AB06373

complete unity and harmony, so that the radiant lights from the Sun of Reality may shine upon the horizons of America  AB01856

The most important of all intentions is to spread the love of God, to establish harmony and oneness among the people.  ABU2593

All the loved ones should, God willing, manifest perfect love and affection and not fall short in helping one another   BH04200

Seek not conflict, but rather reconciliation. Pursue not war and strife, but be thou as sugar sweet and musk-diffusing.  AB09399

"universal amity must be practiced" and "Universal Love must become the dominant note of the music of the 20th century"  ABU3229

Consider how the Love of God has united us together. We are associating with each other in the utmost of unity and love.  ABU2623

We created hearts for My love, and eyes to behold the signs of My power, and tongues to make mention of My beauteous praise.  BH08489

become a lover of the world of humanity, count all mankind as your relatives and kin, and be kind to all the children of men  AB12421

O how I wish that all of the leaders of the people would spend their energy for unity and peace among all nations and sects!   ABU3391

"all the people of the world have become aware that Baha'is are purely good toward all and kind to all nations of the world"   AB04723

Thou has supplicated to become a word in the Book of Love, attain to Truth, love the enemies and be firm in the Cause of God.   AB06888

show forth such love for each other that whoever beholds you will see you as lovers of one another and servants of each other.  AB07216

so that you may raise the banner of peace and harmony and become the sign of the Most Great Name among the peoples of the world  ABU1826

so that all may become unified like the waves of the sea of oneness and united like the hosts of the Kingdom of the All-Merciful  AB10211

May they establish peace with all the peoples of the world and adorn the gathering of contingent beings with the light of unity.  AB04246

In this Baha'i Dispensation, kindness and mercy and loving-kindness are among the fundamental foundations of the divine teachings.  AB09532

Thanks be to the bounties of the Most Glorious Kingdom that has cast such love and affection and connection and unity into hearts   AB11762

Nurture the world through love and invite humanity to beautiful fellowship, so that true love may raise its banner among all peoples  AB02115

Engage in love and harmony and oneness, strive to spread the divine fragrances, and sacrifice your lives in exalting the Word of God   AB00421

The important thing is to spread the Teachings, to show love and compassion, to be kind to all, and not wound the feelings of others.   ABU3687

Surely, all must today be called to love, to unity and to kindness; to integrity, to friendship, to fellowship, and to divine worship.  AB01462

You will surely show him the utmost love and kindness in such way that the spirit of that martyr in the Abha Kingdom will be gladdened.  AB04108

Notice how, when a person sits with a friend, his heart leaps, how happy he becomes, but when he sits with an enemy, what a punishment!  ABU2926

since you have been raised under the shadow of the bounties of the Ancient Beauty, you must befriend all the peoples of the world.   ABU1817

that ye may conquer the East of that region as well as its West, through the sword of peace and the weapons of love, union and agreement   AB03525

day unto day you may become more loving to humanity, day unto day establish more rapid means of communication between the children of men.   ABU2256

[T]he kings and rulers of the world are not yet ready to acknowledge that universal peace is conducive to the life of the world of humanity.  ABU3041

until spiritual unity manifests as it should and must, the intended beloved will not appear and will not adorn the gathering of witnessing.   AB03815

They are the same with everyone. These are the party of God. The favors of the Blessed One have made the friends dear even to their enemies.   ABU2569

"Consequently, the teachings of Baha shall assuredly breathe the spirit of peace, the love of God and divine compassion in the hearts of men."  AB02148

The Arabs were scattered in disposition, divided in assembly...They arose and were sent forth, they discovered and united and joined together   AB03557

the Baha'is are well-wishers and extremely kind to all parties, averse to conflict and contention, and far from prejudice and ulterior motives  AB01691

Our way is to wish good for all and seek divine confirmation for everyone. We are completely forbidden from criticism and impurity of speech.   AB11707

for He hath ordained for the one He desireth a reunion in realms which no one hath known save His Own Self, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH06307

Know that mutual aid and assistance is the greatest cause of success, and consider love and kindness the means of comfort for the human world.   AB02998

Do not restrict this love to the friends alone, but be kind and compassionate to all humanity. As much as you can, make hearts happy and joyful.  AB01814

We beseech God to assist all to hold fast unto that which is conducive to unity and concord, and to turn away from that which causeth difference.  BH08185

The friends of God must arise with utmost kindness. Just as you have done, the more oppression they witness, the more faithfulness they must show  AB02360

The teachings of Baha'u'llah so penetrated the veins and nerves of humanity that it created unity between different tribes and divergent peoples.  ABU1744

At present forbearance is necessary lest division occur, for if division occurs, fellowship and association will cease and no one will draw near.  AB09233

so that all may arise to serve the Cause of God in perfect fellowship, oneness, love and wisdom, and may day by day increase in unity and accord   AB07483

Baha'u'llah says if religion does not become the cause of unity, its nonexistence is better than its existence. Religion must be the cause of love.  ABU0633

These hosts give life and quicken and uproot war and strife from the foundation; they bestow peace and reconciliation and grant love and truthfulness   AB03242

Soon you will observe that a hundred thousand souls will attain the station of a single soul and a hundred million people will enter beneath one tent.  AB04756

We treat all nations and peoples equally with the utmost love and kindness, with truthfulness and good will in order to increase concord in the world.  AB03382

I greatly desire to see the friends united like a string of gleaming pearls and brilliant stars and radiant rays of the sun and gazelles in one meadow.  AB02869

so that the dust of ill-feeling may be entirely removed from between the two hearts, and all may arise united and in harmony to serve the Cause of God   AB12138

universal love may envelop humanity, in such wise that this world may become a mirror of all the grace and bounty of the Well-beloved of all the worlds  AB07918

In all the heavenly Books, the command to love and unity hath been given, and in truth it is the cause of the world's order and the nations' tranquility  BH02395

Ask and pray to God that thou mayest become an enkindled lamp, to shed light upon the assembly, to become a lover of men and a well-wisher of human kind  AB09099

live in accord with the Teachings of Baha'u'llah and that is; - real love for the world of humanity and the utmost of kindness for the believers of God.  AB11423

Be kind to all who are on earth and behave spiritually with everyone. Be gentle and gracious...sincere love for all, calm and dignity and steadfastness.   AB01236

Let us put love in the hearts of all the children of men. Let all mankind labor for this, that the favor of God may descend upon the Orient and Occident.  ABU2101

Therefore the Persian friends must arise with friendship, truthfulness and worship of God, and with utmost kindness embrace all the peoples of the world   AB04903

be gentle to every outsider...deal justly with the unjust and treat the oppressor with faithfulness...be towards all with the utmost humility and meekness  AB00725

O people of God! In Our Tablets We have commanded all to unity and harmony, for harmony hath ever been and remains the cause of the exaltation of the Word.  BH01037

Praise be to God that corruption, conflict and disputation have been erased from the Book, as every discerning one and every informed scholar doth testify.   BH02109

Today from the rustling of the Divine Lote Tree this supreme word was heard: The world is built through love and fellowship, and without it, it is in ruins.   BH02145

Therefore, make an effort that fellowship may be established among you, for this would be the cause of joy and gladness to the heart and soul of 'Abdu'l-Baha  AB09056

Show friendship and worship truth. Seek truthfulness and desire reconciliation...Establish the practice of love and faithfulness and be free from every bond.  AB00901

Praise be to God that thou hast become renowned throughout all regions through thy love for that Peerless Beloved, and hast become intoxicated and enchanted.  AB09366

And until these lights shine forth with perfect radiance from the horizon of hearts, this cycle will not yield its fruit and the purpose will not be achieved  AB03200

Blessed are they who have turned towards the horizon of God's Cause and in whose hearts are reflected the effulgences of the light of the divine countenance.   BH09328

the essence of illumination is the jewel of harmony which, when it shineth in any gathering, createth the highest paradise and adorneth the most exalted heaven  AB08809

"You must deal with all in loving-kindness in order that this precious seed entrusted to your planting may continue to grow and bring forth its perfect fruit."  ABU0543

The principle of the Divine Foundation is love, unison, oneness and the purity of intention. When love is attained the mystery of truth will then become manifest.  AB00232

Though outwardly you are far from us, in reality you are in our presence, for bonds of unity and oneness and sentiments of purity and detachment exist between us.  AB08710

They must not oppose any nation nor deal unjustly with any soul. They must consider the human world as their kith and kin and carry out what befits this station.   AB00581

We have enjoined upon you love and unity. Blessed is he who acteth in accordance with that which hath been ordained in the Book of God, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH01743

Even if thy loving-kindness maketh him more bitter, manifest thou more kindliness, more tenderness, be more loving and tolerate his annoying and offensive behaviour.  AB11140

that the roots of enmity may be destroyed and the foundations of love and affection be established; that the hearts may be filled with love and the souls be attracted  AB05590

In this Dispensation there are no bounds - all things are unbounded, meaning that human goodness should reach all people, not just friends and like-minded ones alone.  AB02510

surely you will be the cause of the utmost spirit and fragrance in the gathering of friends, and likewise you will draw strangers beneath the shade of the All-Merciful  AB08973

Say unto him that you are commanded by the Blessed Perfection to wish good to those who hate you, to love those who wish you evil, to consider the stranger as a friend   ABU1564


He must raise up the armies of love and destroy the foundation of war and strife, so that the luminosity of oneness, nobility and tranquility may illumine all horizons.  AB07441

The people of Baha must, God willing, deal and associate with one another with perfect love and purity, and think of the benefit of all, especially the friends of Truth.  BH05929

Glad tidings of concord and unity have a mighty effect in the world. In these days news hath arrived from the land of Ta concerning the unity and concord of the friends.   BH04418

They expected us to be servants and propagators of their old dogmas and customs, not knowing that we are obliged to serve humanity and spread universal love and harmony.   ABU2598

there is a need to promote brotherhood and love for thinkers and the laws of nature...promote spiritual teachings, universal brotherhood and the power of love in the world  ABU1127

The divine religion is love between people, and truthfulness and trustworthiness and goodwill toward all creation, even compassion for the beasts and birds of sea and land.  AB00406

Water flowing from one spring has more force and energy than if the same water is divided between eight springs. Try always to concentrate your activities into one channel   ABU3356

Praise be to God that this bond among the friends is firm and steadfast, binding and connecting, and a manifest light, growing stronger and more solid with each passing day.  AB08727

Therefore, the friends of God must deal with those who oppose them with the utmost love, kindness and goodly conduct, and strive to guide souls to the extent of their ability.  AB06185

They must seek peace and reconciliation with all peoples and nations, pursuing security and safety, harmony and tranquility, and the comfort of all creation in every condition   AB03322

He wafts the sweet fragrance from the rose-garden of the East to the nostrils of the people of the West, and plays the melody of the Concourse on High to the ears of those below  AB08255

Two human beings may live side by side, may be closely related, and yet be very far apart. Their souls may never meet. And two souls may be attracted instantly and become as one.  ABU2910

The Love of God becomes the means of light to the world...and with clear vision we are enabled to struggle onward and upward, ever progressing in the paths of virtue and holiness  ABU0984

O people of God! Illumine the horizons of the world with the light of concord and, guided by the rustling of the Most Exalted Pen, attain unto the fruits of the Divine Lote-Tree.   BH08573

The friends in that land must show perfect love, kindness and compassion to one another. Those who are occupied [in service] should not fall short in whatever they are able to do.  BH10940

Today, blessedness lies in freedom, humility and unity. As much as thou art able, be kind to both friend and stranger, that thou mayest become the recipient of divine forgiveness.  AB09945

if the loved ones of God are kind to someone, they should want what is best for them and endeavor to counsel them so that the kind physician may treat them and they may be healed.  AB01498

However, with your enemies - not the wolves - you must show the utmost love and kindness. From this, spiritual benefits will result and the world of morals will become illumined.   AB01248

Man is commanded to show justice, fairness, trustworthiness, nobility, love, truthfulness, fellowship, consideration, protection and kindness towards all the peoples of the world.  AB02952

The tongue of kindness is the lodestone of hearts and the sustenance of the soul; it is as meaning to words, and as the horizon from which shineth the Sun of wisdom and knowledge.   BH00272

Two matters are essential today: first, the attention of God's loved ones to the wisdom revealed in the Book, and second, their unity and accord, for from discord great harm ensues.  BH06135

Pay no heed to differences of thought, and treat not other peoples and nations as strangers. Deal with all in love, fellowship, justice and mercy, and love them with heart and soul.  AB00775

"Ye are all the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch." This is the pavilion of the oneness of the world of humanity and the universality of mankind that He has raised up.   AB00200

we are well-wishers of all peoples and tribes in every clime...We associate with all peoples of the world with utmost kindness and are perfect friends and well-wishers to all nations  AB05416

For they are drops of one ocean and rays of one sun, flowers of one garden and trees of one orchard, links of one chain and servants with rings in their ears belonging to one master.   AB02783

Love mankind for the sake of God and love each other very much... I have much love for each one of you. Baha'u'llah knows how much I love you. It is indescribable. It is immeasurable.  ABU1403

Seek happiness and comfort for the whole world of creation, for all humanity, and conduct yourselves with such love that it becomes the cause of training both the ruler and the ruled.   AB02438

Endeavor in every possible way to do some favor, some service for someone else; do this daily, no matter how small or trivial the act of kindness may be. Even a smile counts for much.   ABU0835

"Glory is not his who loveth his homeland, but glory is his who loveth the world." Through this word the Kingdom of Utterance is stirred, but the heedless remain in manifest obscurity.   BH00385

the Lord of Hosts established a heavenly throne and spread the armies of peace and reconciliation in all parts of the world, in order that the reign of the peace and love may be founded  AB10775

The banner of universal Peace will wave over the German people, for to the contrary notwithstanding, they love peace and desire to maintain their amicable relations with all the nations.   ABU2570

We are both striving to find ways to extinguish these fires so that the light of love may shine. We shall assuredly establish the foundation of love and concord among the children of men.   AB04763

"Therefore those who would know the Reality of Christ must perceive His Spirit, by which their hearts become united. They thus become a word and have a meaning through the Reality of Jesus."  ABU2479

O people of God! Let your drink be the Kawthar of love, your occupation that which manifesteth unity, and your deeds that which guideth mankind to the path of God, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH01592

"While all the other religions are hating and denouncing each other, the Baha'is are the friends of all religions and the lovers of all peoples, and their aim is to unite and harmonize all."  ABU2763

They should set an example to their fellow-men, manifest a true and sincere love towards each other and educate their children in such a manner as to blazon the fame and glory of their family.  ABU2222

Through this holy power, the children of Adam become servants and lovers of one another, and the foundation of world order and the basis of the comfort of nations becomes firm and established.  ABU1164

Therefore they must be compassionate toward all. They must exert themselves to bring about the Oneness of the world of humanity. They must put forth the utmost effort to conciliate the hearts.  ABU2277

You must exercise toward each other the utmost degree of love and friendship. Let not anything separate you from each other. Have always the object of the Cause in view and not the passing events.   ABU0754

They should open the doors of peace and reconciliation with all peoples, tribes and nations of the world...The aim is universal reform and the purpose is peace and tranquility among all human parties  AB01844


You must never offend any soul. You must always have love. As soon as you see any dissatisfaction between souls, strive to create love between them. For the Kingdom of God does not accept differences.   ABU0428

We call humanity to love, unity and fellowship and disown hatred and discord. We strive for the wellbeing of the peoples of the world, exerting the utmost effort in pursuit of peace, unity and harmony.   AB00573

Deal ye with strangers the same as with friends, cherish ye others just as ye would your own. See foes as friends; see demons as angels; give to the tyrant the same great love ye show the loyal and true  AB00044

Praise be to God that those brethren are gathered in joy, and in the meeting place of fellowship they are in utmost ecstasy and delight, in perfect harmony with one another and in complete love with all.  AB06212

Thanks be to God, you are the beloved of the universe that love the whole world. Praise be to God your affection is for all, you are the enemies of none, lovers of humanity, a precious mine for the souls.  ABU1723

They should become sweeter than pure honey through the utmost love and harmony with all peoples and nations, and become like refreshing water through perfect truthfulness and sincerity with all religions   AB01347

This Wronged One hath ever desired the good of God's servants and commanded love, affection, kindness, unity and concord, and such deeds and character as would cause the manifestation of human perfections.   BH01261

If you love someone, let it not be due to family unity, national unity, or racial unity, but rather love souls for God's sake. Love every perfect soul even if they are not from your homeland, family or race  ABU0318

When I shall hear that they are entirely united, I shall be perfectly happy. To become harmonious is very important, for the least inharmony retards the bestowal of the great blessings that are awaiting them.  ABU2283

A Baha'i was a guide to the path of friendship and truthfulness, and was at peace and reconciliation with all people of the world. He even considered his enemies as friends and wished well for his ill-wishers.   AB01001

because the bounty of the Merciful God is but pure love, great prosperity and universal peace among different people in all regions and laying the foundation of great happiness and felicity for all the creatures   AB03590

Now, if they were to set aside these acts of carnage and butchery, and to deal with one another in accord with the divine will, showing love and affection to each other, tell me Aqa Mirza Habib, is it not better?   ABU1669

Every soul among the loved ones must strive for that which benefits all humanity, excluding no one, but rather preferring others over oneself. This is the attribute of the All-Merciful, this is the heavenly grace.  AB11831

Say: O friends! Through unity and concord, and through remembrance and utterance, illuminate the horizons. Strive that ye may perchance achieve such deeds as shall endure throughout the kingdom of earth and heaven.  BH11638

Lay the foundation of love and faithfulness and uproot the edifice of discord and cruelty. Practice friendship and truthfulness and seek peace and reconciliation. Be kind to all creation and solicitous of friends.   AB02729

Deal with the foreigners with utmost love, and with the Arabs with kindness and compassion. Ever keep before thy face this blessed word: Glory is not his who loveth his country, but glory is his who loveth the world.  BH00701

but you must speak to them with infinite kindness; and there may exist such a love in your midst that it may influence them. Then they will see with their own eyes that you are distinguished from the rest of mankind   AB06240

Thou must show forth Baha'i love to all the peoples of the world, that they know what bonds it hath set between the hearts and what love it hath deposited within them, that men even give up their lives for one another.  AB03989

For the divine teachings thus command us to become the cause of fellowship and love among humanity, that we may be delivered from danger and stay clear of harm and injury, until we become trees full of blossoms and fruit.  AB00985

Regard each one either as a father, or as a brother, or as a sister, or as a mother, or as a child. If you can attain to this, your difficulties will vanish, you will know what to do. This is the teaching of Baha'u'llah.   ABU2299

We have ever commanded people to unity and love. If humanity had perceived the sweetness of the divine words which descended from the Source of the Command, they would surely have acted according to what they were commanded.  BH04536

May this strife and conflict between the peoples of the world may be eliminated through the power of the Most Great Name. May the star of human oneness rise and the banner of universal peace cast its shadow over all regions.  AB01244

may become the emblems of the Almighty and conducive to peace and tranquility amongst all the peoples, kindreds, and religions on earth. May they breathe the spirit of amity, harmony, and truthfulness in the body of the world  AB02136

Convey to the noble descendant utmost love and kindness and heart attachment and great longing from Abdul-Baha, and likewise make fragrant the nostrils of the other luminous friends, both male and female, with holy fragrances.  AB11752

I beseech Him to assist all to achieve unity and harmony and to be successful in wisdom and utterance, that all may be illumined by the light of the Cause and be assisted in the mention and praise of the Intended One of the world.  BH01944

Now it behoves them to show fellowship and harmony... they should completely forget themselves and deal with the utmost truthfulness and trustworthiness with friend and stranger alike. They should even regard enemies as friends...  AB01437

importance lies in yearning hearts and in unity and harmony and the bonds and connections of the Covenant of the Beloved of the horizons. Thanks be to God, these remain firm and established. No weakness occurs in that strong cord.  AB02416

This evanescent servant beseeches the Eternal Truth to assist all in that which leads to the manifestation of love, affection and unity. In truth, if this matter be achieved, all will be seen to occupy the station of a single soul.  BH06760

My home is the home of Unity. Whenever I see the people exercise love and good-fellowship amongst themselves my heart is exceedingly rejoiced. God willing you will always love each other. Praise be to God that you are brothers in faith.  ABU1719

Strive as much as you can to extinguish these flames, let this always be your thought - to extinguish them. One must show the utmost kindness to all people. One must always overlook - whatever one sees from others, one must overlook it.  ABU1821

From the tenderest childhood, the children must be taught by their mothers the love of God and the love of humanity; not the love of the humanity of Asia or the humanity of Europe or the humanity of America but the humanity of humanity.  ABU0973

It is clear and evident that 'Abdu'l-Baha is infinitely kind to you, for night and day He has no rest and seeks not a moment's repose. He either speaks or writes and engages in mention of the righteous ones and handmaidens of the Merciful.  AB02441

The bestowals of man belong to the realm of idealism, and is in the hands of God. All that concerns man is the necessary bond to bring about the happiness of humanity. This bond is for attraction, fellowship, love, self-sacrifice and unity.   ABU0657

All are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch. Therefore all the branches, leaves, blossoms and fruits must be in the utmost of freshness, and the bringing about of this delicacy and sweetness depends upon union and fellowship.  AB00309

The purpose of this Revelation is that the fire of hatred which blazeth in the hearts and souls of the followers of divers faiths should be quenched through the Kawthar of divine utterance and heavenly counsel, and be stilled and extinguished.   BH01592

Say: My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Throne and by the influence of Thy Word, to assist Thy loved ones in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with, and to unite their hearts through Thy Most Great Name, the Most Glorious.   BH01518

Beware! Beware! Be ye not a stranger to anyone, even if he be the lowest of savages on the face of the earth and knows nothing of God, or even if he be an enemy. Desire ye his association, aspire ye for his freedom and long ye for his perfection  AB00308

In the realization of this spiritual work he was reinforced by the Divine Power. It is only with the assistance of the Divine Power that we shall succeed to unify mankind. No other power on earth is mighty enough to render this universal service.   ABU1076

Love ye all religions and all races with a love that is true and sincere and show that love through deeds and not through the tongue; for the latter hath no importance, as the majority of men are, in speech, well-wishers, while action is the best.  AB01704

"We beseech God, exalted be He, to aid them to unity and harmony, draw them nigh unto Him, and ordain for them through His bounty that which befitteth His might and His manifestation and His grace and His mercy that hath preceded all created things."  BH04060

This is the time of Love! This is the time of good-fellowship! This is the time of conciliation! This is the time of service! This is the time of affinity! This is the time of Purity! This is the time of Illumination! This is the time of Brotherhood!  ABU1045

With all joy I read thy brilliant letter and was informed of its expression and meanings, which showed thine abundant love in God, thy humility before the beloved of God, thy attraction to the fragrances of God and thy firmness in the Testament of God   AB03590

will be kind to all peoples of the earth, will love humanity and act with perfect honesty and service to all, will know all as members of our own body, will know all nations as their friends, will have perfect friendship for all the peoples of the earth   ABU1327

At every breath, with a heart overflowing with supplication, I bring my plea of utter powerlessness to the threshold of Divine Unity: O Lord! Manifest the splendors of Thy bounty to those who are filled with longing, and open wide the gates of Thy gifts.  AB07003

Those teachings will illumine the world. They are fellowship and love, oneness and unity, truthfulness and reconciliation, peace and tranquility, and love and faithfulness. They will uproot the foundation of estrangement and establish the edifice of unity.  AB06339

Due to the intense connection that exists between hearts...from this affection of hearts and love of souls, effects may appear in existence whose luminosity will be manifest and evident from the dawning-place of creation as long as the contingent world endures.  AB08441

With brief mention and abundant sincerity, this one makes manifest that whatever expression of sincerity is made and whatever elucidation of special connection is offered exceeds description and utterance and is sanctified above characterization and explanation.  BH03813

Know all mankind of all nations, sects and tribes as your kith and kin. Consider not their deeds, but only God. Seek your reward from Him and not from them. Know the aged of all nations as your fathers, the juveniles as your brothers and the children as your own.   AB00974

It is very easy to come here, camp near this beautiful lake, on these charming hills, far away from everybody and deliver speeches on Universal Peace. These ideals should be spread and put in action over there, (Europe) not here in the world's most peaceful corner.  ABU3424

"The principles of Christ's life were love and mercy. He prayed for his enemies on the cross. He came into the world in order to show men a new application of the Law of Love and he embodied this divine Idea in his life. He was the founder of the law of non-resistance."  ABU0332

God willing, as the string of pearls of this assembly will endure in perfect connection, unity and agreement, and as the stars of felicity have gathered in that constellation of servitude, it will become the cause of attaining the confirmations of the All-Merciful Lord.  AB01572

Today is a day when particular thoughts, whether from individuals or nations, cause great misfortune and ultimately lead to evident loss. What is universal today is divine and causes the progress of all humanity, while what is particular is pure detriment and sheer loss.  AB00827

Deal with Mirza Ahmad Sohrab with kindness and love. God desires love, fellowship and unity. Expend all your effort on this - this is the cause of everyone's glory, this is the cause of nearness to the divine threshold, this is the cause of entry into the Kingdom of God.   AB01694

"Observe that in the world of existence, harmony is the cause of existence, love is the cause of life, and separation is the cause of death...Thus it became clear that harmony and love are the cause of life, while aversion, discord and separation are the cause of death."   ABU0457

Hearts are connected to one another and all souls are joyful. I hope day by day these connections increase and this love and harmony grow more, so that this assembly may cause all humanity's hearts to draw closer to each other and all peoples to achieve love for one another  ABU2710

This heavenly friendship and divine truthfulness of the friends will become the cause of comfort and ease for the human world. Warring parties will reconcile, antagonistic peoples will become loving, hostile nations will become friendly, and conflicting peoples will embrace.  AB01573

Good intentions are of two kinds in the world of creation. One kind is aimed at a specific goal, a particular group, and its scope is extremely narrow. The other kind is directed towards all created things. It is a goodwill that is extensive in range and absolute in nature.   AB04356

Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship. Whatsoever hath led the children of men to shun one another, and hath caused dissensions and divisions amongst them, hath, through the revelation these words, been nullified and abolished.  BH00238

Every organization whose foundation is laid down on a righteous motive, and whose members arise to perform the duties enjoined by divine ordinances, and work with their whole heart, will surely receive assistance of the Holy Spirit and be aided by the power of the Merciful One.   AB01792

Strive with utmost humility, submissiveness and lowliness to create love between the friends of God. Endeavor and be enthusiastic that perhaps a new love may arise and become the cause of `Abdu'l-Baha's heart's joy...My heart's ultimate desire is love and unity among the friends.  AB02722

Your charitable intentions became known. Unity and concord are the source of life, and discord the cause of death. All creation, as you see, has come into being through the union of individual essences, and when discord appears and union dissolves, it must necessarily be destroyed.  AB01815

They must become a conclusive proof from God - that is, they must adopt such conduct and behavior as would represent the outpouring of the rays of the Sun of Reality and illumine the world of humanity. And that is to show forth love and affection towards all the peoples of the world  AB12383

That world is the Kingdom of complete attraction and affinity. It is the Kingdom of the One Divine Spirit, the Kingdom of God. Therefore, the affinity and love manifest in this meeting, the divine susceptibilities witnessed here are not of this world but of the world of the Kingdom.  ABU0126

This is mercy unalloyed and purest bounty; it is light for the world and all its peoples; it is harmony and fellowship, and love and solidarity; indeed it is compassion and unity, and the end of foreignness; it is the being at one, in complete dignity and freedom, with all on earth.  AB00104

I pray for you that you may associate with one another in perfect love and harmony, and all titles will disappear except the title of humanity. Just as in the kingdom of the animals where we find the dove being called a dove - white or black - not being distinguished by their colors.  ABU0308

We must astonish the enemy with the intensity of our love and transform bloodthirsty, savage wolves into gazelles in the meadows of the love of God. We must make the oppressor taste the sweetness of being oppressed and teach the murderer the acquiescence and submission of his victims.  AB00252


Be in perfect unity. Never become angry with one another. Let your eyes be directed toward the kingdom of truth and not toward the world of creation. Love the creatures for the sake of God and not for themselves. You will never become angry or impatient if you love them for the sake of God.   ABU0666

I pray that ye may so shine with happiness and salvation that ye shall be the cause of concord, of love, of peace and reconstruction, that quarrels and enmity among nations may be changed into friendship and reconciliation, that war and slaughter may be transformed to peace and tranquillity   AB02079

They are from the melodies of peace and reconciliation, of love and unity, of justice and security, of concord and harmony. In a short time this heavenly singing will intoxicate all humanity; the foundations of enmity shall be destroyed; unity and affection shall be witnessed in every assembly.  AB02755

We beseech God to aid them to achieve unity and concord, and to perform such deeds whereby all things were attracted and did acknowledge and confess that which the Desired One hath revealed unto His Most Great Beloved, through Whom the fragrance of utterance hath been wafted throughout all regions.  BH11863

God is witness that whenever the name of each is mentioned, joy and delight are felt. But from what and whence is this joy? By the life of our Beloved, all is from sincerity and love and affection and unity. The illumination of the world is from the light of love, else darkness would seize and destroy all.   BH02111

You must, therefore, look toward each other and then toward mankind with the utmost love and kindness. You must even treat your enemies as your friends. You must consider your evil-wishers as your well-wishers. Those who are not agreeable toward you must be regarded as those who are congenial and pleasant.   ABU0270

Praise be to God! that ye are gathered in one assembly like unto the stars of the Pleiades, are illumined with the light of the knowledge of God and through the outpouring of cloud of the love of God, ye are the fresh flowers of the meadow and plain; ye are intimate and familiar with infinite unity and love.  AB02331

Though the trace of the pen may be lacking, yet the feelings of the heart are present, and the true letter is the spirit of sincere love. Therefore, shortcoming is impossible and impracticable, and in all conditions the remembrance of the friends and love of the beloved ones are the comfort of heart and soul.  AB02757

As regards separation - it is in no wise permissible. Separation in that land causes the fire of hatred to be kindled. Love and kindness for the sake of God is required towards every soul, except those who turn away--this commandment hath been sent down from the heaven of the divine decree in the Most Holy Book.  BH11696

O my Baha! Confirm Thy believers in the Cause of Union and Agreement and assist them to lay amongst themselves the foundation of eternal solidarity and celestial oneness. Suffer them to become like unto the flowers of Thy Paradise - perfuming the hearts and minds of all the people with their gentle fragrances.   ABU0575

Mingle with the people with good conduct and behaviour and show the utmost good-will, friendship and sincerity to all humankind. Consider strangers as friends; imagine the blind to be seeing and the deaf to be hearing; regard the dead as living, the enemy as a friend and the opponent as an affectionate companion.   AB00434

"In the days of Moses the people pitched the tent of martyrdom, and in the time of Jesus Christ they established the greatest church but in this time the believers in God must raise the tent of peace, union and concord. I hope that through the providence of God the brilliancy of love will light all the horizons."   ABU1763

Therefore, all must conduct themselves with one another in gentleness, forbearance and love. And if someone is unable to comprehend certain stations or has not yet attained them, they should speak to him with perfect kindness and compassion and remind him, without seeing in themselves any superiority or elevation.   BH01034

Today is the day of unity and accord, and sincerity in the Cause of the Luminary of the horizons... We had hoped that the divine friends and companions would, day and night, from the intensity of the fire of love, embrace and shake hands and show kindness and attraction to each other - not dispute and argue and curse.  AB00641

They must associate with each other with the utmost humility and attain to spiritual affinity. Each one must sacrifice his life and possessions to the other and each person be loving to all the inhabitants of the world, rending asunder the curtain of foreignness and consorting with all the people with union and accord.   AB02658

We love each other because we are all centered in the Blessed Perfection. If we did not know Him, we should never have loved one another, for we are from different countries and different customs. Still we love each other, for our love is of divine origin and will never change either in this world or in the world to come.   ABU1624

Therefore, it is not possible or allowable that amongst human individuals there should linger any strife. Let no sedition tarry. Let no hatred or rancor prevail. All must live in the utmost kindness, in the utmost of love, the utmost of fellowship, and must pass their days pleasantly, for this will win the Bounties of God.  ABU0048

Now We beseech God to preserve all the friends in every land, that they may ever behold the light of godliness shining before their faces, hold fast unto it, and manifest such deeds and character that their fame may encompass the world, and from every city and region the banner of unity and the standard of accord may be seen.  BH11717


Never imagine that due to not receiving Tablets about love and unity, your remembrance would be erased for a moment from the hearts of the loved ones and friends, or any weakness or laxity would occur in the handle of love. That covenant and testament which was made in the spiritual world has been and will forever remain firm.  AB08213

Likewise when the student of the path of Reality has attained to the loftiest summit of divine love, he will not look upon the ugliness and misery of mankind; he will not observe any differences; he will not see any racial and patriotic differences; but he will look upon humanity with the glorified vision of a seer and a prophet.  ABU2278

It should be done in such a way that differences will, day by day, be entirely wiped out, not that, God forbid, it will end in argumentation between men and women. Your demeanour should lead to harmony amongst all and to coalescence and the good-pleasure of all. I appeal to you to obliterate this contention between men and women.   AB00677

Let the East embrace the West, and the beloved of the Orient become companion to the darling of the Occident, so that diverse peoples and varied nations and conflicting communities and contending tribes may become loving toward one another. Let the banner of hatred and malice be cast down and the verse of manifest peace be chanted.   AB05556

Whosoever is lacking in love for humanity or manifests hatred and bigotry toward any part of it violates the foundation and source of his own belief and is holding to forms and imitations. Jesus Christ declares that the sun rises upon the evil and the good, and the rain descends upon the just and the unjust -- upon all humanity alike.  ABU0118

Convey My greetings to the friends who have drunk from the cup of detachment and have turned away from all else but God, and who are adorned with the light of love and fellowship - greetings whose fragrance shall perfume the world and transform the rancor and hatred in the hearts of the factions into love, harmony, affection and unity.  BH04620

With utmost longing we would sacrifice our souls for all the friends of the Beauty of Abha, may my spirit be offered up for His loved ones. For the life-giving fragrances of His Kingdom from the gardens of the hearts of these temples of holiness waft day and night, and we are in joy and delight remembering their enchanting countenance.  AB02472

Today the solace of Abdul-Baha's heart is the love, humility and submissiveness of the friends toward one another. Until the reality of heartfelt love and the ultimate self-effacement, evanescence and spiritual attachment is manifested in the hearts of the friends toward one another, assuredly the great bounty will not encompass the world.  AB08637

When this beauteous and beloved fellowship shines in the congregation of the friends, divine confirmations and everlasting assistance will encompass them on every side. The light of unity will shine. The breeze of detachment will blow. The rays of loving-kindness will radiate and vouchsafe true life. This is the sign of the greatest victory!   AB01742

in the world of existence, the greatest gift is the love between hearts. However, the condition is that it must be universal. And I hope that all friends become enamored with one another and become the beloved of each other, and through this cause, the sun of love and faithfulness will illuminate the East and the West with radiance and light.  AB03143

This, however, is astonishing, that souls from the Orient and souls from the Occident should be in the utmost of love and fellowship. Doves from Asia, from America, from Europe, from India and from Japan -- if these should flock together, associate with each other, fly together, enjoy themselves, and pick up grains together, this is very good.  ABU1049

May this union flood the unexplored regions of the hearts with the rays of the Love of God! May such happy events hasten the day of the oneness of the world of humanity! Every movement which increases love and affection amongst the children of men is a divine movement and any Cause creating alieneation or even ill-feeling is diabolic in origin.   ABU1448

Strip yourselves of these vain imaginings and cleanse the mirror of your hearts of the dust of this ignorant prejudice, that you may become truly loving towards the world of humanity, that is to say, to all people. Have no hatred towards any person from any nation, religion, tribe, race or land, but rather show the utmost kindness and friendship  AB01437

The love which welds together the members of various nations; divergent races and different religions, and causes them to associate with each other with love and amity, that love is divine and celestial in origin; because such love is spiritual and heavenly, which casts all the various communities and tribes in one universal mould of fraternity   ABU0631

Love is light; hatred and enmity are darkness. Love is the cause of life; enmity is the cause of death. Surely the wise will prefer life over death, will consider unity preferable to discord, and will strive with heart and soul that these dark clouds may be dispelled, that the Sun of Reality may shine forth, that the world may become another world.  ABU0113

They must cleanse their hearts from even the slightest trace of hatred and spite, and they must set about being truthful and honest, conciliatory and loving to all humankind--so that East and West will, even as two lovers, hold each other close; that hatred and hostility will perish from the earth, and universal peace be firmly rooted in their place.  AB00027

Today the most important thing to be established is the Unity of the Word of the Beloved of God and fellowship, good feelings and love among the faithful ones and the maid-servants of the Merciful; for the foundation of the Religion of God, and the fundamental basis of His Law tend to establish harmony among all of the nations and peoples of the world.  AB07136

You must love humanity in order to uplift and beautify humanity. Even if they kill you, you must love them. Individual love cannot be forced and you are not called to love everybody personally, but if they are in your lives, see to it that they are means of your development and that you are means of their development, through your universal love for them.   ABU0191

Praise be to God and thanksgiving be unto God that your honor has succeeded in accomplishing the affairs of the friends and in uniting their hearts. The affairs of that land are with the Afnan. Now and henceforth they must be vigilant and watchful in all conditions, lest anything contrary to love, unity, fellowship and harmony appear among the friends of God.  BH02969

So long as the Lord is kind to all, provides for all, protects all, and shelters all of us, without exception, beneath his overshadowing protection, why should we not avail ourselves of this bestowal? Why should we change this light into darkness? Why should we transform this life into death? Why should we transform this love and fellowship into hatred and rancor?  ABU0013

The Lord of all worlds created the human world as a Garden of Eden. If peace, tranquility, love and faithfulness were to be found as they should be, it would become a paradise within paradise, and all divine bounties would become abundant, joy and delight endless, human virtues manifest and evident, and the rays of the Sun of Reality visible from every direction.   AB02153

I beg you so to live that you will prove yourselves to be true Bahais, not by confession merely, but by showing love toward all humanity without distinction or prejudice, considering all as servants of God. If he had not loved all mankind he would not have created nor have provided for them; nor would he have nurtured and have sheltered them beneath his providence.  ABU0047

The greatest gift of man is universal love - that magnet which renders existence eternal. It attracts realities and diffuses life with infinite joy. If this love penetrate the heart of man, all the forces of the universe will be realized in him, for it is a divine power which transports him to a divine station and he will make no progress until he is illumined thereby.  ABU0902

Our purpose was to purify and refine the servants through all Our faculties and members, that perchance unity might be established among the peoples of the world and the fire of love be kindled... In the Most Great Prison thou didst witness how We maintained, with love and fellowship, harmony among the many souls present there, despite their differing views and stations.  BH11717

The utmost love has been manifested. Therefore, it is my hope that spiritual fraternity shall unite the East and the West and bring about the complete abolition of warfare among mankind. May it bind together individuals and members of the human family and be the cause of advancing minds, illuminating hearts and allowing divine bestowals to encompass us from all directions.   ABU0152

And those souls who have become disturbed and anxious in this greatest turmoil, treat them with the utmost kindliness and love, and guide them to the divine pathway through goodly exhortation, for God hath not wished that any soul should remain deprived, especially those who have become the target of vilification and humiliation in the path of God, even though it be for but an hour.   BH01514

We must look upon our enemies with a sin-covering eye and act with justice when confronted with any injustice whatsoever, forgive all, consider the whole of humanity as our own family, the whole earth as our own country, be sympathetic with all suffering, nurse the sick, offer a shelter to the exiled, help the poor and those in need, dress all wounds and share the happiness of each one.  ABU0207

We beseech God, exalted be His glory, to ever keep fresh and verdant the realm of love through the morning breezes in this springtime of inner meanings, and not to deprive it of the fragrances from the gardens of fellowship and unity. In truth, this bounty has had and has no likeness or parallel, for from love appears unity, and through the light of unity the horizons become illumined and radiant.   BH04835

We must look upon every human being we saw as a letter from the Beloved to us. No matter how blotted, blurred, torn or soiled that letter appears to be, nevertheless, you must look upon it with the eye of reality and say to yourself, this is a letter from my Beloved, therefore, because it is from Him, I must love it with that divine love and overlook all its defects--inasmuch as the Beloved wrote it.  ABU2947

You will release the hearts of the people from the intense darkness of different prejudices, so that each soul may love all the people of the world, without distinction. Just like a shepherd who is affectionate to all his sheep, without preference or distinction, you should be affectionate to all. You should not look at their shortcomings. Consider that they are all created by God who loves them all."   ABU0326

They exerted the utmost endeavor to foster true unity and harmony amongst the people and the government. The Baha'i's cherish the hope and desire that the foundations of war be demolished; that bloodshed and conflict be effaced from the world; that all the nations, the peoples, the kindreds, the governments and the religions be united and harmonized, and that Universal Peace be established amongst them.   AB11832

You must be a source of happiness to whomsoever you meet. The world is like the body and the love of GOD is like the spirit thereof. Just as this body is quickened by the spirit, likewise the world must become alive with the love of GOD. Your duty is to unite all, in order that no disunion exist, especially among the believers. The only hope I have for you is that you do your best to unify all the hearts.   ABU0811

May they strive in the establishment of good-fellowship and amity amongst the children of men! May they enkindle the hearts with the fire of the Love of God! May they advance the cause of progress and real civilization! May their hearts be touched with real pity and sympathy! May they attain to such height of altruism as to be ready to sacrifice their lives for each other! This is the life of the world of humanity!   ABU1218

Be not wearied by the people, for throats are narrow and weak while the heavenly feast is abundant. Inevitably souls will be raised up who will receive their portion and share from this table of bounty. Therefore, engage in kindliness, practice good conduct, and deal with sincere love. Strive that the hearts of both stranger and friend may be gladdened, so that every ruined nest may become a prosperous house.  AB08748

Peace and reconciliation prevail, along with harmony and prosperity. Love is universal and fellowship exists with all peoples and nations in every land. The favors of the Blessed Beauty have uprooted animosity, and the banner of supreme kindness has been raised to the highest summit. The foundation of conflict and strife has been scattered to the winds, and the basis of hatred and enmity has been obliterated and removed.   AB00327

Through the power of the Word of God and the luminosity of His teachings, He dispelled the intense darkness of enmity and established the light of love. The East became illumined and the star of eternal life shone forth brilliantly. Different conflicting groups gathered together in perfect fellowship and harmony at the banquet of unity and table of love, as though all were kith and kin, or son and father, or brother and sister.  AB00763

When a person's thoughts advance somewhat and their aspirations become elevated, they begin to think about securing benefits and averting harm for their entire family, for they consider the comfort and prosperity of their entire household as their own happiness. And when their thoughts expand further and their aspirations become yet loftier, they begin to think of securing benefits and averting harm for their fellow citizens and countrymen.  AB00158



Therefore marriage in the estimation of God is very much beloved so that man and woman may live together in the utmost union of the soul and the highest degree of love and the purity of the family atmosphere. Whenever I see a man and wife love each other and are united together I am made supremely happy. Therefore I hope you will live together with the sweetest affection and tenderest feelings and will form a blessed family with joy and happiness.   ABU1783

Think only of illumining the human world and transforming the hatred and enmity between peoples into love and kindness. Should you witness a hundred thousand cruelties in every moment, be not grieved or disheartened. Engage in well-wishing and show kindness to ill-wishers. Rather, receive cruelty as though it were fidelity, and show boundless love to the aggressive. If they wound, consider it a balm; if they oppress, count it as mercy and compassion.   AB00054

he must look upon all humanity - the rich and the poor, the learned and the ignorant, the high and the low, the aristocrat and the democrat, the employer and the employee, those who live in Mansions and those dwell in dark, cold, wretched tenement-houses, those who are well-fed and those who have no bread to eat, - as members of his own family; he must know and believe that the whole earth is his native land, he must be sympathetic with all the people.   ABU0956


For all the nations of the world are the sheep of God, and God is the kind shepherd. He has created these sheep. He has protected them, sustained and trained them. What greater kindness than this? And every moment we must render a hundred thousand thanksgivings that, praise be to God, we are freed from all the ignorant prejudices, are kind to all the sheep of God, and our utmost hope is to serve each and all, and like unto a benevolent father educate every one.   AB00209

Another unity is the spiritual unity which emanates from the breaths of the Holy Spirit. This is greater than the unity of mankind. Human unity or solidarity may be likened to the body, whereas unity from the breaths of the Holy Spirit is the spirit animating the body. This is a perfect unity. It creates such a condition in mankind that each one will make sacrifices for the other, and the utmost desire will be to forfeit life and all that pertains to it in behalf of another's good.   ABU0129

When this is done, the rest of the world will accept. All nations will join in adopting the teachings of Baha'u'llah revealed more than fifty years ago. In His Epistles He asked the parliaments of the world to send their wisest and best men to an international world conference which should decide all questions between the peoples and establish universal peace. This would be the highest court of appeal, and the parliament of man so long dreamed of by poets and idealists would be realized.  ABU0788

When divine love, like wine, causes the world-reflecting cup of the hearts of God's loved ones to overflow with infinite bounties, and when the delicacy of the cup and the purity of the joy-giving wine unite, it becomes "light upon light" and bewilders the corners of consciousness. Through their mutual reflection, the mystery of unity becomes manifest, and "His light is as a niche wherein is a lamp, the lamp within a glass, the glass as it were a glittering star, lit from a blessed tree" becomes evident.  AB07490

O people of Baha! By the Luminary of Utterance which hath shone forth from the horizon of the will of the Lord of all beings in this darksome night, to whatever degree ye increase in hearts the love which is a divine trust, the lights of guidance will encompass and illumine the world. Attention, vision and deeds must be for the sake of God, not for the desires of self and passion. In creation the effulgences of the Light of Divine Manifestation exist and are witnessed. Cast aside hatred and hold fast to supreme love.   BH00760

You must love one another; you must be self-sacrificing for one another. If you observe any shortcomings on the part of any, as much as you can, be forgiving and do not be harsh. Even if you wish to admonish, let your admonition be in symbols; do not express it explicitly lest any heart should be saddened. Remember that in the world of existence there is nothing so bad as injuring a heart, for the heart of a man is the place of the descent of the Merciful and man must not at all disquiet or harm the place of the Merciful.   ABU0025

The Truth is, in and of itself, sanctified and distinguished above all else. No person of insight would deny this. Beseech the Truth that He may grant eyes the power of vision. However, the ophthalmia of vain imaginings hath prevented eyes from beholding the Most Exalted Horizon. From the inception of this Cause until now We have forbidden all people and the friends of God from oppression, transgression, conflict, disputation and treachery, for this Revelation hath come for the unity of nations and the betterment of the world.   BH00463

Praise be to God, these decisive texts are spread throughout all regions and are accepted by all those of understanding. Even by explicit text, He has stated that the divine friends must treat all other peoples and nations with utmost kindness, meet faithlessness with faithfulness, cover wrong with right, counter sword and dagger with honey and milk, and requite deadly poison with a wondrous elixir. They must be a remedy for every ailment and a balm for every wound. They must be friends and helpers to their enemies, show care for their oppressors, and regard vengeance as bloodthirstiness and savagery.   AB00149

The fourth is the love of man for man. The love which exists between the hearts of believers is prompted by the ideal of the unity of spirits. This love is attained through the knowledge of God, so that men see the Divine Love reflected in the heart. Each sees in the other the Beauty of God reflected in the soul, and finding this point of similarity, they are attracted to one another in love. This love will make all men the waves of one sea, this love will make them all the stars of one heaven and the fruits of one tree. This love will bring the realization of true accord, the foundation of real unity.   ABU0651

One amongst His Teachings is this, that love and good faith must so dominate the human heart that men will regard the stranger as a familiar friend, the malefactor as one of their own, the alien even as a loved one, the enemy as a companion dear and close. Who killeth them, him will they call a bestower of life; who turneth away from them, him will they regard as turning towards them; who denieth their message, him will they consider as one acknowledging its truth. The meaning is that they must treat all humankind even as they treat their sympathizers, their fellow-believers, their loved ones and familiar friends.  AB00998


O divine society and heavenly hosts! Each time your lofty aims and the sublimity of your resolve come to mind, soul and conscience are moved to joy and delight, bringing gladness and hope that in this day when the intense darkness of war and bloodshed has encompassed Asia and Africa, and the inauspicious dust of hatred and enmity has darkened the horizons, praise be to God that your society has been illumined like candles and is shining like stars. It is hoped that the luminosity of peace and tranquility and the spirituality of love and harmony that you manifest will, albeit gradually, dispel this darkness from the world and brighten the horizons.  AB03618

Today all must look to that which God hath revealed in the Book, and arise to champion His Cause with truthful tongues, hallowed deeds and spiritual qualities, so that through the sweet-scented breezes of their pure and goodly deeds the people of the earth may attain the light of acceptance and turn unto the supreme horizon. This is the day of the most great bounty. Should all the peoples of the world show forth love, even if they be devoid and deprived of its reality, the Sacred Court hath shown and will continue to show favor, that perchance the fragrances of the verses may guide them, lead them from the realm of fancy to the kingdom of certitude, and bring them from metaphor to reality.  BH00089

Brotherhood, or fraternity, is of different kinds. It may be family association, the intimate relationship of the household. This is limited and subject to change and disruption. How often it happens that in a family love and agreement are changed into enmity and antagonism. Another form of fraternity is manifest in patriotism. Man loves his fellowmen because they belong to the same native land. This is also limited and subject to change and disintegration as, for instance, when sons of the same fatherland are opposed to each other in war, bloodshed and battle. Still another brotherhood, or fraternity, is that which arises from racial unity, the oneness of racial origin, producing ties of affinity and association. This, likewise, has its limitation and liability to change, for often war and deadly strife have been witnessed between people and nations of the same racial lineage. There is a fourth kind of brotherhood, the attitude of man toward humanity itself, the altruistic love of humankind and recognition of the fundamental human bond.  ABU0009
This is the station of the Baha'is, that they should show infinite kindness to one another and be self-sacrificing, for service to the friends is servitude at the Threshold, and care for the friends is among the characteristics of the loved ones of the Merciful Lord.  AB12838
 
