And if, by the help of the Creator, he findeth on this journey a trace of the traceless Friend, and inhaleth the fragrance of the long-lost Joseph from the heavenly herald, he shall straightway step into the Valley of Love and be consumed in the fire of love. In this city the heaven of rapture is upraised, and the world-illuming sun of yearning shineth, and the fire of love is set ablaze; and when the fire of love is ablaze, it burneth to ashes the harvest of reason.  BH00047

From its words I hear a sweet melody and that melody was the Psalm of the "Love of God." Although in the world of existence the Outpourings of the Almighty are infinite yet the Greatest Divine Outpouring is the "Love of God." This is the dominant, transcendental Power which rises above all the natural susceptibilities of the world of humanity. Man like unto the animal is the captive of the world of nature and the laws of nature exercise full control over his nature. He cannot even be compared to the beasts of prey. For example one of the forces of nature is ferocity. A ferocious, blood thirsty man goes beyond the ferocious animals. If an animal tears another animal, it is only for its daily food but man destroys one hundred thousand souls in one day. Hence it became evident that the power of nature is the unbridled and ungovernable ruler over man. What is written concerning the "ego which is always inclined to do evil" is no other than the fermentation of the passionate desires in the breast of man and the complete, unchecked sway of the carnal and natural forces over him. Therefore, man cannot win victory over these physical emotions save through the "Power of the Love of God." The Fire of the Love of God is like unto the lightening which strikes upon the head of nature, emasculating it of its virility and leaving it fallen on the ground - a lifeless corpse. Consequently the greatest Power in the World of existence is the "Love of God" AB04595

This is the fire of the love of God that made the Exalted One - may my spirit be offered up for Him - the target of a thousand bullets. This is the fire of the love of God that made the sweet Christ the adornment of the cross. This is the fire of the love of God that made the Prince of Martyrs the martyr of the plain of Karbila  AB03910

My love is a fire that consumeth the hearts  BH07222

Burn night and day with the fire of the love of God  AB05166

he will be set aglow with the Fire of the Love of God  ABU2016

the fire of love is blazing   AB04251

become aflame with love for the Glory of Glories and like the radiance of Sinai bestow illumination  AB03975

Were it not for the Fire of the Love of God, how could the life of man become a flame of sanctity and severance?   ABU0911

This is the Lamp of holiness, kindled by the love of God; be ye illumined by it, O companions of the All-Merciful!  BH11865

cause the moths of love and affection to circle round the brilliant lamp and burn their wings in the heat of its luminous flame  AB08724



merge us together in the fire of love  AB07960

Cause me to burn with the fire of Thy love  AB10875


was set ablaze by the fire of the love of God  BH09337


be a living torch of the Fire of the Love of God   ABU2670


They have been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love  AB07985


Burn away desires with the fire of the love of thy Lord  BH05668

I was set ablaze with the fire of love. My heart burned  AB11237


the fire of love is kindled and consumeth the souls of men  AB09042

the fire of love is kindled, setting the human heart aflame  AB09042


the fire of separation hath blazed forth from heart and soul   BH04013

"May God enkindle thee with the fire of Love and Attraction."  AB10668

My enkindlement is obtained from the Fire of the Love of God.  ABU1678

and the fire of the love of God will burn brighter within thee  AB12011


Be aflame and full of fire, and be ignited with the kindled fire.   AB07436

implore my Lord to make thee a flame of the Fire of the Love of God  AB10677


burning of your pleasure-seeking soul in the fire of the love of God  AB03947

O thou that art aglow with the Fire that burneth in the Sacred Tree!   AB03473

Let us heave a sigh from the heart and set aflame a fire in our souls   BH03078


From the intensity of love they are like kindled flames and burnt moths   AB11926


I know not what fire Thou hast kindled within me by the hands of Thy power   BH07579

burn like aloe and ambergris in the fire of the love of the Beauty of Baha   AB03983


If these metaphors match reality, the fire of the love of God will blaze forth  AB02668

When the fire of separation flames up and the heat of yearning casts its sparks   AB03689

Now praise be to God that you have been set ablaze by the fire of the love of God  AB05718

and a fire from the treasury of nearness which is ignited in the Mount of the Tablet   BH11394

And the glory be upon thee, O thou who art enkindled with the fire of the love of God  AB08687

The heart-burning lament which thou didst raise from the world-consuming fire of love  AB05828

This (Covenant) is the Ark of Noah, its moving power is the fire of the love of God.   ABU3589

Heave a heart-burning sigh and set that realm ablaze with the fire of the love of God.  AB01580



that we may kindle a fire of love for the Most Glorious Beauty in the pole of the horizons  AB10387

From the love of Baha, set ablaze a soul-consuming flame in the world's beginning and end   AB01268

whose hearts are kindled with a burning, blazing and flaming fire from the fragrance of God  AB09753

Thy Fire is burning in me, O My Lord, and I feel its glowing in every member of my weak body.  AB09726


I beseech Thee by the fire wherewith the hearts of Thy chosen ones were set ablaze in Thy days   BH09754

A thousand ways I tried My love to hide--But how could I, upon that blazing pyre Not catch fire!  AB00002


The fire of love for Layli blazed forth and effaced from existence the maddened and infatuated souls.  BH09186

Of that wine which reveals the form of the fire, Of that fire which manifests the Water of the Spirit  BH02867

mayest thou be favored by divine grace and be enkindled in thy youth with the fire of the love of God.  BH09609

And you must ignite and enkindle all the manifest and veiled countenances with the kindled fire of love  BH09268

"become utterly bewildered and impassioned, and to be enthralled and intoxicated with that Loving Friend"  AB09961

and the salamander burns in the fire of desire, and the fish in the ocean of love's radiance is submerged   BH01251

and become so enkindled as to consume the world of existence with the fire of the love of the Lord of Bounty   AB07353

Through His pure will, retaliation became the cause of life, and the fire became the Manifestation of His verses.  BH00944

I beseech Thee to cause the hearts of those who are sincere toward Thee to be set ablaze with the heat of Thy love   BH07691

This is a lamp lighted by the fire of Thy love and ablaze with the flame which is ignited in the tree of Thy mercy.  AB11281


The wise glean only scattered ears from Layli's secret, For this bounty belongs alone to Majnun who burns the harvest.  AB08675

The moths of the flower-garden of the Merciful circled round that Incandescent Lamp, and they feared no one save God.   AB06665

that He may make thee so ablaze with the fire of His love that the flame of the love of God may pervade all those parts  AB11310

The fire of separation, after the comfort of the days of union and communion, has burned the soul and melted the heart.   BH10221


you have become moths to the lamp that illumines the night, and have been set ablaze with the world-consuming fire of love   AB08708


The tongues have spoken of thy attraction to God, and the pens have testified to thy burning by the Fire of the Love of God.  AB07777




This divine Fire might, by the heat of the love of God, guide and attract all mankind to the abode of the incomparable Friend.   BH01353

When this bounty appears, the fire of the love of God will blaze forth in such wise as to melt the very liver of the horizons.   AB07498


cause the moths of love and affection to circle round the brilliant lamp and burn their wings in the heat of its luminous flame  AB08724



Speak forth the verses of thy Lord whereby hearts are melted and the breasts of them that have advanced towards God are set aflame   BH10704

O Thou Who enkindleth the fire of love in the hearts of them that love Thee and causeth the flames to rage throughout all regions!   BH05450




Now is the time to kindle the flame and be consumed by the fire which rageth in the world; now is the hour to set thy heart alight therewith.  AB08159



then burn and cut themselves off from and flee their idols, their veils, their glory, away from all save their Lord, away from their own selves  BH11678

The forge, though filled with fire, yet needs the bellows in order to heat silver and gold, so that solid metal may become liquefied and glow.   AB02164

It is the divine fire which, when kindled in the breasts, consumeth all things besides God. The hearts of the lovers are aflame with this fire.   BH04673




yet in secret the fire of love is blazing intensely. God willing, may this flame become world-consuming and this radiance become world-illumining.   AB02768




Blessed is the soul that hath been illumined and set aglow with the fire of divine love. This fire hath ever been and shall ever remain the reality of light.  BH04890


How mysterious the Fire which Thou hast enkindled within my heart! My very limbs testify to the intensity of its heat, and evince the consuming power of its flame.  BH07119



It is my prayer that thou mayest become a moth that burns its wings in the flaming candle of the love of God, a salamander of love and desire in the fiery path of God.  AB08901


Thou art God's crimson flame that setteth the world on fire. If Thou castest away Thy veil, Thou settest the whole world afire, Wringest all beings, confusest all faith.  BH05338

It is hoped that through the heat and flame of the fire of the love of God they will blaze forth in such wise as to illuminate all the surrounding regions and districts   AB11846

May the fire of the remembrance of the Wronged One, God willing, add to the warmth of thy love and ignite thee in such wise that it shall never be extinguished or grow cold   BH08878




Day and night kindle the fire of love and like a candle with tearful eyes burn in the fire of the love of God, until from your kindling and burning, lights may shine forth upon those regions   AB03173

Among these is attraction, and among these is enkindlement and combustion with the fire of the love of God. Thereby lethargy is transformed into warmth, and coldness into the flame of the fire of oneness   AB08907

In any case, the flame of love must needs be consuming; therefore patience and composure are necessary, and stillness and forbearance are essential. Assuredly this flame shall be quenched and find repose.  AB05425

Should but a breath from this garden reach thy nostrils, the pen would fall from thy hand and thy letter would be torn asunder, nay rather, it would be consumed by the flame of the fire of the love of God.  AB09260

Thy voice hath kindled such fire in all my limbs that should anyone examine my entire frame, they would find no place therein save that which burneth with the flame of Thy love and the fire of Thy affection   BH07107


If but a breath from this garden were to reach thy nostrils, the pen would fall from thy hand and thy letter would be torn asunder, nay rather, it would be consumed by the flame of the fire of the love of God.  AB09260


When in any external entity the element of fire becomes dominant, intense burning becomes manifest, and likewise in any luminous reality when the element of the fire of attraction prevails, flame and eruption result   AB06809

If a lover obtains a particle of dust from the footprint of the Beloved, from the intensity of rapture and joy he would involuntarily make that dust the collyrium of his eyes. This is among the requirements of love.   AB01234

O Love, in the centre of creation thou art the King, Who emptieth the breasts of all patience and forbearance. Come on, devour my tender heart by the fire of Thy Beauty, Then heal my breast with the finger of Thy Might.  BH03242

at times is manifest as the fire of attraction, uttering "Verily, I am the Attracter of hearts." Blessed are the illumined hearts that have been quickened by the water of divine bounty and attracted by the fire of His love.  BH06501

Thou hast thus occupied thyself by day and by night in praise of Him and in prayer to Him at morn and at eventide, and hast been enkindled with the fire of His love both in the gloomy hours of the night and in the brilliant light of the day.  AB03827

Like two pieces of iron: they are dark and cold but, when heated in the fire of love, they become so hot that when they touch each other they unite into one piece and are so bright you cannot tell the iron from the fire. They are one in it.   ABU1383


The candle is aflame and the heart in melting anguish. None knoweth what is the cause of this, and what its reason. Some maintain that the source and essence of elemental fire is the warmth in the hearts of lovers and the sighs of yearning souls.  BH11781

This conflagration, even if its heat is scorching in reality gives light to all the world. Indeed, if thou discernest truly thou wouldst see that this blazing fire is but a rose garden; it is the source of life-giving waters unto every tested servant.  AB08853

This conflagration, even if its heat is scorching, in reality gives light to all the world. Indeed, if thou discernest truly thou wouldst see that this blazing fire is but a rose garden; it is the source of life-giving waters unto every tested servant.  AB08853

I beseech Thee by Thy Name which Thou hast made a light unto them that have drawn nigh unto Thee and a fire unto them that have turned away, and hast made it a blazing lamp unto them that have sought Thine all-highest horizon and held fast unto Thy path  BH00955


At times I behold it as fire, for by it are consumed the hearts of the sincere. At times I behold it as breezes, for by it are stirred the hearts of the unitarians. And at times there issueth from it a sound like unto melodies that draw unto them the hearts of the lovers.  BH10844


The fire of your longing is so intensely ablaze that its heat has affected the horizons and its ardor has influenced the hearts of those dwelling near the Holy Shrine. This is not mere flame - it is bounty. This is not mere heat - it is love. This is not mere longing - it is illumination.  AB01858

Despite this, such is the heart aflame with the fire of love for the friends of God, and such is the spirit rejoicing, that it will not release the fingers from the pen, and waves of longing from the ocean of the heart reach the shores of these pages. O how I long for you, O friends of God!  AB08843

The Fire of the Love of God was set aglow, the sea of the Love of God began to move and its waves arose heavenward, the Cloud of the Love of God poured down, the breeze of the Love of God wafted and the rosegardens of the hearts of men were adorned with the flowers and hyacinths of the Love of God.  AB03586

The divine love, like pure wine, when it fills to overflowing the world-reflecting goblet of the hearts of God's loved ones with infinite bounties, and when the delicacy of the cup joins with the purity of the joy-giving wine, it becomes light upon light and bewilders the recesses of consciousness.  AB07490

At one time, they would be beset with spark-inflaming sighs. At another time they would raise lamentations early at daybreak full of anguish and sorrow. And yet another time they would be with eyes full of tears, a consumed heart, and a concealed grief, like unto a blazing candle glowing with the flaming fire.  AB03478

Though physical fire possesses an intense heat, yet the heat of the love of God hath such a wondrous potency and mighty flame that no material fire can compare with it. For while physical fire transmits its heat only to solid matter, the fire of divine love sends forth its flames to the horizons and exerts its influence in the heart of contingent being.  AB09490

O bird of the spiritual meadow, strike up a melody and raise a call that will ignite the fire of love for the Beloved of creation in the heart of existence, and raise such a flame that the coldness of the physical worlds of the handmaidens of God will be transformed into the spiritual heat of the love of God, and the frozen state of hearts will be changed to melting   AB04348

O Baha'u'llah, when Thy fire blazed forth / It consumed the very existence of Thy lovers / With but one spark cast upon hearts / Thou didst raise a thousand Sinais in breasts. The Kawthar of love is concealed in these resplendent words. Outwardly, the word "fire" is mentioned, but inwardly it is light upon light. The flame of love is manifest and evident in the Sadratu'l-Bayan.   BH00404

In truth, no fire hath been or is greater than the fire of separation. Its flames melt the world of existence, and its sparks consume all that is. Yet in the estimation of the dwellers in the cities of yearning and the lovers, no bounty hath been or is more beloved than this, nor any gift more desired. They would freely sacrifice a hundred thousand lives to attain unto this fire.  BH00640

Though fire in the physical world hath a powerful effect, the fire of the love of God hath even keener consequences and is possessed of so incomparable and penetrating a flame that no physical fire can be its equal. Physical fire doth spread through contact with solid matter but the fire of the love of God pierceth the very heart of all things and can ignite a conflagration across the whole world.  AB09490

O sign of the love of God! If thou couldst know in what state of excitement this heart is at this moment, thou wouldst rend thy garment and become swift-moving in the path of God. Thou wouldst kindle the fire of longing and consume the liver of all horizons, and wouldst sacrifice thy soul freely in the path of the Beloved. This is the time, the time of flame and fire, and the season of fervor and longing and burning.  AB07900


