The Supreme Pen has commanded all to love, affection, fellowship and unity, for unity has been the cause of the exaltation of the Cause while discord leads to its dissipation. In these days which are in truth the source of all days, and in this age which is the king of ages, the friends of the All-Merciful should strive with the utmost joy and fragrance to attain lofty stations and enduring ranks. Blessed are they of insight who today have not been deprived by any veil from the Most Great Vision and who day and night are occupied with uniting hearts and bringing souls together.   BH01122

Unity of the heart between the friends of God attracts the outpouring of the Holy Spirit and capable souls receive the bounty of the divine Mysteries and they become the distributors of the Light.... Inharmony destroys the magnet to attract the Divine Elixir and all become deprived. This is a great loss; therefore, one must study to promote this Unity, which is essential to the life of the believers.  ABU1473

The people of Baha must be the cause of uniting all the nations.  They must dispel inharmony and dispute. So now we must consider deeply how the Bahá'ís must really be, what characteristics they must have and what actions they must perform. And if there is not this love and harmony among Bahá'ís how can they cause it to appear among the inhabitants of the earth? How can an ill man nurse others? How could a pauper give wealth to others? So the first thing the Bahá'ís must do is to feel love and unity in their hearts before they can spread it among others.  ABU1140

They must remain firm and steadfast in the Cause of the Lord of the Day of Judgment with perfect unity and accord. O friends of Truth! The people are without fairness and are worshippers of idle fancies. For years they have worshipped and bowed down before the idols of vain imaginings. I beseech the True One, the Mighty, the Powerful, to protect His party and grant them the heavenly water of reality, that all may become intoxicated with the wine of knowledge and occupied with the remembrance of the Peerless Friend.   BH00572

differences between the friends in any matter whatsoever causes weakness in the Cause of God and leads to the wavering of souls... Consider that when differences arise, inevitably one party is supported while the other party becomes broken-hearted and sorrowful, and ulterior motives emerge and become a cause of veiling... You must have utmost fellowship with each other and strive that if any difference arises, even between two people, to quickly remove it so that its scope does not expand.  AB00670

Be among the concourse of all created things with spirit and fragrance, that they may inhale from you the sweet savors of the Beloved. This, verily, is true victory, were you of those who know. Beware lest there appear from you that which would cause division in the Cause.  BH02702

O loved ones of God in His lands! Hearken unto the call of the Wronged One which hath been raised from the precincts of the Prison. There is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Great. Be ye united in the Cause of God and His remembrance, and be ye as the fingers of one hand.  BH00345

The letter adorned with the ink of love, which is in truth the cause and reason for, and manifestation of, the unity of the servants in the Cause of the Lord of creation, became the source of joy and gladness and the cause of delight and felicity.   BH00393

O people! Unite in the Cause of God, then drink from this Salsabil which floweth in truth from the direction of the throne of your Lord, the All-Merciful, in this Paradise which shineth in truth with the lights of beauty.  BH01783

Unite in the Cause, for thereby are gladdened the hearts of the chosen ones and grieved the hearts of them that deny. Through unity will the Cause of your Lord, the Possessor of creation, become manifest.   BH01255

O loved ones! Be ye united in the Cause of God, in such wise that no winds of discord may pass between you. This is that whereunto ye were bidden in the Tablets. This is better for you, did ye but know.  BH00130

O people of God! Ye must needs be so steadfast in the Cause of God that neither the onslaught of the mighty nor their ascendancy may weaken you. Stand ye for God's sake and speak for God's sake.   BH01719

Then I counsel you that ye dispute not in the Cause of God, even should the idolaters unite against you, and be ye in the earth as standards of victory from One wise and self-subsisting.   BH02942

Be ye united in the Cause of your Lord, then hearken unto him who remindeth you by Our leave, and hold fast in all conditions to the Sure Handle, and trust in Him at all times.   BH01938

It behooveth thee to strive for love and unity among the loved ones, that they may be united in the Cause of God. This is God's command, both in the past and in the future.   BH01848

Be ye united in the Cause of God and His religion, and be as one soul, for thereby shall the banners of them that have disbelieved and joined partners with God be destroyed   BH03256

The purpose of these people is to create division in the Cause of God and destroy the unity of the Baha'is, so that in the process they may pursue their selfish desires.  AB12529

"They must hold fast to the cord of unity and cleave to the hem of concord, for through unity the light of the Cause will encompass the horizons and illumine hearts."  BH00681

Beware lest ye differ in the Cause - gather ye on the shore of this Most Great Sea. By My life! Through your unity the pillars of the deniers shall be demolished.   BH04088

"Be ye united in the Cause of God and adorn your temples with the raiment of love and unity. Thus doth the Lord of creation command you from this remote Prison."  BH02062

At all times be vigilant in safeguarding the Cause of God and strive mightily for the unity of the friends, that God may thereby bring about a new matter.  BH00656

Be as one soul, that through you terror may enter the hearts of those who have denied God   BH02832

Be ye united in the Cause of God, then help it through such mention as will cause every hesitant one to hasten unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH00900

O people, fear ye God and differ not among yourselves, lest the hearts of the deniers rejoice thereat. Be as one soul in upholding the Cause  BH02332

Through unity shall the back of those who have disbelieved in the Lord of creation be broken. This will profit you, if ye be of the certain ones.  BH02228


gather ye together around the Cause, for this is what God desired for you in the atomic realm before the creation of the heavens and the earths  BH06947

O loved ones of God in the cities and regions! Know ye that power lieth in unity, and prosperity and success in steadfastness and concord.  BH00536

all are obligated by the Divine Tablets to demonstrate love, unity, affection and fellowship, which are the cause of exalting the Word of God   BH07568

that they may gather together round Thy Cause, and cling to the hem of Thy mercy, and cleave to the cord of the good-pleasure of Thy will.  BH05408

Likewise He has commanded love and unity, for discord has ever been and will ever be the cause of corruption and the waste of God's Cause.  BH05365

Today there is no greater service than to arise in the love of God and strive to unite and bring harmony among the friends in that land.  BH07734

O loved ones of the All-Merciful! Avoid discord, for through it the pure cup of mystical knowledge is sullied among all created things.   BH04234

God willing, may all be seen in perfect unity and concord. This is the cause of glory, loftiness, and exaltation of the friends of God.   BH01499




the purpose of this servant is that all on earth should gather together in perfect love and unity at the divine stream of His Cause.  BH01933

We give thanks to God, the Lord of the Most Exalted Horizon, of the Throne and earth, for having united the hearts of His loved ones  BH09578

We beseech God, exalted be He, to assist His loved ones to love and unity, and to unite their hearts through His grace and mercy.   BH09180

The purpose hath ever been and will ever be the unity of the loved ones, for if this matter is not achieved, nothing is achieved.   BH02585

if the friends of Truth had acted according to the loving counsels of God, surely all would have turned toward the court of oneness  BH06406

O My loved ones! Gather ye together in the love of God. Beware lest ye differ in any matter. He desireth for you love and unity.  BH04523

Rather, resolve the differences that have arisen between you and be as brothers firmly established upon the thrones of unity.   BH00782

Hold fast to the cord of unity in this Cause whereby the feet of the servants have slipped save those preserved by God's grace  BH08930

Be ye united in this Cause, that no enmity or hatred arise between you. Thus have ye been commanded in the Tablet of Decree.   BH05284

In this day the cause of victory and the means of the exaltation of God's Cause hath been the unity of the loved ones of God   BH04869

so that all souls may gather beneath the shade of the Most Great Word in such wise that no differences remain between them   BH06113

Be ye united in the Cause of God and differ not as did the people before you. Fear ye God, O people of understanding!   BH04163

The loved ones of God must remain steadfast and firm in God's Cause with perfect unity, oneness and singleness of purpose.   BH00302

Be united in the Cause of God, then act according to what you have been commanded in the Book, and be not of the heedless.  BH04962

Today all the loved ones must strive for unity of hearts so that all may speak with one word and move with one motion.   BH06399

With perfect unity and harmony raise ye the remembrance of God, exalted be His glory, and be ye steadfast in His Cause   BH02375

Unite ye in God's Cause, then make mention of Him with such remembrance as may awaken the hearts of them that slumber.  BH02975

We desire fellowship amongst you. Make your desire that which your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Choosing, hath desired.   BH04976

The All-Bountiful has come from the horizon of power for the unity of the factions and their agreement in this Cause   BH02337


Stand firm in the Cause of God, then gather the people unto the law of His love lest they differ in the Cause of God  BH03273


That which is essential today in that land is the unity of the friends of God, as well as the observance of wisdom.   BH01242

True unity is to fix one's gaze upon the horizon of the One Manifestation and to be detached and free from all else   BH04946

Today the essence of the Cause is that all the loved ones of God be united and stand firm on a single path.  BH03627

Hold ye fast unto the cord of unity, then aid your Lord, the All-Merciful, through remembrance and utterance.  BH02776


O loved ones of God! Be ye united in the Cause, then adorn your temples with the raiment of love and fellowship.   BH06152

And We beseech Him to unite the hearts of His loved ones and strengthen them through the handle of love and unity.  BH08636

O people, unite in this Cause, for through your unity the hosts of the idolaters shall be scattered.  BH04097

"Be united in God's Cause, for through it the banners of victory are raised upon the peaks and mountains."  BH02792

praise befits the people of fidelity who hold fast to the cord of unity and cling to true love and harmony  BH01916

Beware, beware lest ye differ among yourselves. Rather, unite in the Cause and be of those who are united.  BH01841

Then unite their hearts and their souls that through their unity the people of Thy kingdom may be united  BH07443

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to gather us upon one carpet and in one place where we may hear and speak  BH01953

Strive to unite hearts and bring them together; thus doth command thee the All-Seeing, the All-Knowing.  BH01740

The greatest of all matters today has been and will continue to be the unity of the loved ones of God.   BH02542

This is a Day wherein all must gather around one Word and drink from the chalice of unity and concord.   BH02475

Gather ye together in My remembrance and praise, then unite among yourselves - this is better for you.  BH03076

he beseeched God, the Lord of the Covenant, for the unity of the loved ones throughout all regions   BH02253

He commanded His loved ones to fellowship and unity, and through that unity illumined the horizons.  BH02204

Unite ye on God's Cause and His religion, and divide not His words, and be not of them that differ.   BH04387

Be united, O My loved ones in My lands! Thus hath the All-Merciful revealed in His Preserved Tablet.  BH05381

Unity and concord have ever been and shall remain the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God.   BH02762

God, Who loveth unity among His servants and Who watcheth over them that believe in His oneness   BH07615

that which is the cause of the dawning and appearance of the light of unity amongst the servants   BH05999

Be united in your words, then aid your Lord, the All-Merciful, with wisdom and utterance.   BH03877

Unite with My loved ones, for through unity the Cause will be made manifest among the servants   BH06957

We beseech God to adorn His loved ones with the ornament of love, fellowship, harmony and unity  BH02024

Move in perfect unity with the loved ones, in such wise that discord may be utterly removed.   BH01077

Unite in God's Cause and His sovereignty, and follow not every rejected transgressor.   BH02125


We beseech God to aid you and all the friends to love and unite the hearts of His servants.  BH01894

Be thou at all times occupied with uniting the hearts and souls of the handmaidens of God.   BH02573

Be not divided regarding the verses of God which have been sent down unto you in truth   BH02293


Be thou united with My loved ones. Through this His signs are spread amongst His servants.  BH05157

Be ye united in the Cause of God and differ not in anything. This is a clear counsel.   BH08076

The people of truth have ever counseled all with loving advice to associate and unite.  BH07350

all may become mines of love and affection and dawning-places of fellowship and unity   BH04710

Gather ye together, then unite in the love of God, then remain steadfast in His Cause.  BH03610

the loved ones of God are united as one hand, stand on one foot, and soar on one wing   BH02079

Through unity the gate of power is opened. Reflect, O ye who are endued with insight!  BH11773

Blessed is the soul that striveth to unite the hearts and minds of the loved ones.   BH02924

Unite in the Cause of God - thereby will His Cause be exalted among the servants.   BH03255

hold fast unto the cord of unity, that no trace of discord may remain in that land  BH05903

Unite in the days of God - thereby will His Cause be spread amongst His servants  BH03556

"It is most praiseworthy to strive to unite the hearts of the loved ones of God"   BH05000

With utmost love, harmony and unity, arise for the Cause of the Lord of creation.  BH00079


All nations must embrace one religion and all people must become as brothers.  BHU0015

that they may be united in this Cause which hath been inscribed in the Book  BH05738

Unite ye in the Cause of God and His religion, and stand ye firm in love  BH04968

at all times drink from the wine of unity and the Kawthar of detachment   BH06902

We indeed perceived from your letter the fragrance of love and unity.   BH09102

Rise up in unity and accord to exalt the Cause of the Lord of creation  BHU0031

They must arise to aid the Cause of God with perfect unity and harmony   BH04114

O My loved ones! Be ye united in My Cause and detached from all else.  BH05400

O people! Unite amongst yourselves and gather around the one Law  BH04688

Be united in the Cause of God and hold fast to His mighty cord.   BH08923

Through unity the Cause is made manifest and station elevated.  BH02276

There are people who rejuvenate the spirit when one associates and converses with them. If one was previously depressed, he becomes refreshed; if dead, new life is breathed into him; if sad, great joy is gained; if lifeless, a new fire is blazed; if immersed in doubts, certitude is renewed; if attached to this contingent world, he becomes celestial; and if submerged in wrongdoing, then he is embraced with goodly qualities.   ABU0879

Today discord hath been and will be the cause of harm to the Cause of God. Set aside your selves and take hold of God alone. Thus doth your Best-Beloved, the Most Glorious, command you. The purpose of service and assistance is the mention of Truth through wisdom and utterance, that perchance the scattered letters of the world may be gathered together in the temple of a single word, and that word may become the cause of the completion and adornment of the Book of Creation.   BH00619


I beseech Thee, O God, O my God, at this moment, by Him Whom Thou hast made a treasure for all created things, a shelter for all existence, and a fortress for all who dwell in the kingdoms of earth and heaven, to send down upon our hearts the love of Thy loved ones and the affection of Thy chosen ones, that we may become pure mirrors, holy crystals, and luminous lamps, reflecting the wonders of the pure camphor of Thy countenance and proclaiming the gleamings of the cloud of might of Thy presence, that we may be as one servant and one soul in the earth, all prostrating before the sovereign of Thy majesty and submitting to the king of Thy beauty, for we are all Thy servants and within Thy grasp.   BH01310

The letter thou hadst written was received. It brought exceeding joy and gladness, for it contained matters that were evidence of the steadfastness and constancy of the friends of God. It told of the unity and accord of the beloved of the Lord, and the aid and assistance they rendered unto one another. Such glad-tidings caused infinite happiness, for firmness and steadfastness in this wondrous Cause is as a magnet that draweth down the confirmations and aid from the Kingdom of God   BH00833


The first watering of this real plantation is unity among the friends of God. To-day there is nothing so essential and so indispensable for the glory and honor of the Bahai cause as the unity of the beloved of God. The more the friends of God are united the greater will be the success attending their efforts...Therefore I beg and counsel you to continue in good fellowship and unity, to co-operate with and be kind toward one another, to exalt one another, and to be the means of comfort and ease to one another, in order that other nations may learn from you how great are the fruits of unity.  ABU0047


We beseech God to make them the banners of His unity, the standards of His love, and the signs of fellowship and unity among His servants.  BH11676

The cause of exaltation and the means of advancement has been and ever will be the unity and concord of the servants.  BH04529

Beware lest dissensions divide you. You must be agreed and united. You must always turn to the kingdom of God, be attracted to Baha'o'llah, be filled with Baha'o'llah, and ever be the recipients of the favors of Baha'o'llah.  ABU0047

utmost effort must be exerted in removing discord between the loved ones and acting with wisdom, so that all the divine friends may be enabled and adorned with the ornament of fellowship and wise action  BH02774

But the fault-finders constantly seek to scatter and disperse the divine sheep and desire the disarray of the party of the All-Merciful, for as long as the sheep are gathered and preserved, protected and blessed under the shadow of the True Shepherd, there is no benefit for any fault-finder and no advantage for any attacker.  AB01857


due to lack of unity, all affairs remain suspended and delayed, and time passes, and if these momentous matters are not established now, it will be impossible in the future and the work will become very difficult.  AB06022

Whenever ye find someone desiring to separate himself from the flock, it is incumbent upon you to treat him with fragrance and kindness and persuade and encourage him, so that this secluded sheep may return to the flock.   AB02315


Therefore the desire of the Ancient Beauty for His loved ones is that they should stand firm upon a single path, for the discord among the loved ones of God brings joy to the enemies and sorrow to His chosen ones.   BH03626

Ye must strive with the utmost endeavor to unite souls and bring hearts together. In every place where discord hath arisen between the friends, it hath caused the Cause to be wasted and extinguished the fire of God.  BH05145


The most pressing need today is harmony and union among the friends of God. Therein endeavour, not until this unity in particular is realised can universal harmony be established.   AB01375

Today, the greatest of all things are love, fellowship, unity, harmony, detachment, freedom, sanctification, purity, sacrifice, and the joy of God's loved ones. If perfect fellowship and pure love are not achieved, all these efforts and hardships will be wasted, and all will ultimately suffer evident loss. The purpose of the manifestation of Truth and the rising of the Sun of Reality is the triumph of the light of God's love, so that the darkness of discord and dissension may vanish from the horizons and spiritual unity may appear. All the friends are as one soul, and all names and attributes are expressions of one person.   AB00080

We are all gathered beneath the shade of the one tree, we are all under the same banner; we are all growing in the same eternal garden and have attained the utmost happiness among the same fragrant beds of roses. We are all lovers of those incomparable Beauty and eager servants at the divine Threshold.  AB01848

We who are servants at the same Threshold are bound together by bonds of cordial fellowship at all times so that the perfume of one heart can make the other fragrant. We are connected through our mutual attraction to the divine kingdom in such wise that we can expound spiritual mysteries even like the wires of the telegraph!  AB01848

Consider this passage from the Gospel when Christ's brothers came to Him and said "These are Your brothers." He replied that His brothers were those who believed in God, and He refused to associate and commune with His brothers. Similarly, Qurratu'l-Ayn, who was renowned throughout all regions, when she believed in God and was attracted to the divine fragrances, detached herself from her two elder sons because they did not believe, and never met with them again, although they were her two capable sons. She would say that all the beloved of God were her sons, but these two were not her sons at all and she was detached from them.   AB00024

Be ye to each other as heavenly lovers and divine beloved ones. Spend your life in the paradise of love. Build your nest on the leafy branches of the tree of love. Soar ye in the clear atmosphere of love. Swim ye in the shoreless sea of love. Walk ye in the eternal rose-garden of love. Move ye in the shining rays of the sun of love. Be ye firm and steadfast in the path of love. Perfume your nostrils with the sweet fragrance of the flowers of love. Familiarize your ears with the soul-entrancing melodies of love. Be ye intoxicated with the wine of love. Drink we deeply of the elixir of love. Let your ideals be the bouquet of love, and your conversation the white pearls of the ocean of love.   ABU0364

When the Beauty of the All-Merciful shed His luminous rays upon the world of being, that light of reality shone forth in pure hearts. True fellowship, heartfelt love, and eternal brotherhood became manifest and evident, for all were illumined by one light, drew sustenance from one Revelation, and were brightened by the flame of Sinai. This brotherhood is of the Kingdom, divine, heavenly, spiritual, eternal, everlasting.  AB12276

Moreover, I beseech you that in these few remaining days of your life, ye live with one another in utmost kindness and mercy, but resting and reposing in the shade of His special favor, for that is the foundation throughout all cycles and the aim in every age. Hold fast to the glory of His loving-kindness and cling to the cord of His forgiveness.   BH01444

If a number of the Baha'is go there with the spirit of unity, and calling the people by day and by night to the Kingdom of Abha and giving the Glad-tidings to all the religions and sects and live together with the utmost of good fellowship and show toward each other love and unity, that it may set others to think and wonder - it is very praiseworthy.   AB03463

I ask God that thou mayest, in that region, make the friends to be companions and associates to one another and enable all to be gathered together and strengthened through unity, harmony and love. Thus may they, through companionship and fellowship, become enthralled and enkindled, be filled with joy and exultation, and increase in love and attachment.   AB02164

The fellowship of friends brings about spirit and fragrance, and the love of brethren induces joy in heart and soul, especially spiritual brethren and mystical friends. As much as thou canst, associate with souls from whose heart-gardens thou canst inhale the sweet fragrance of the love of God, and from whose luminous foreheads thou canst behold the manifest light.  AB08589

Therefore, Ye should love the friends with all your hearts and souls and offer up your lives for one another. Deny them not any service. Do not consider any hardship to be too difficult. Let each one become the beloved of one and all, and the object of one another's attention. This is the requirement of love and the foundation of amity.   AB06207

Likewise when people of faith associate with material minded people their hearts are depressed too. Therefore whenever you meet the friends of God be very happy; speak about spiritual things so that you may find heavenly susceptibilities. Association of the friends is the greatest of divine bounties.  ABU1733

In this corporeal world, despite the separation of bodies, friends remain friends and intimate with each other. In the eternal world, then, which is the world of divine unity and heavenly oneness, friendship and spiritual intimacy are naturally among the essential requisites of that sanctified world.  AB09920

In the human world there is no greater connection than the attachment of hearts - even a chain of iron is not as strong. Praise be to God that this connection among the friends is firm and steadfast, binding and connecting, and tied with the manifest light, and day by day it becomes firmer and stronger.  AB08727

Among the friends, fellowship and unity become the cause of familiarizing strangers and spread to all, for the divine friends are as the heart of humanity. Whatever shines forth and surges in the heart permeates all members, such that the eye weeps, the lip smiles, and the entire being begins to dance and move.  AB00291

This evening we were speaking of the fellowship and unity of the Persian Baha'is. They can truly be called lovers. For example, if one of the friends of God arrived in their city, all the friends would rejoice and assemble together in a meeting with him. If he were ill, they would care for him; if sad, they would comfort him.  ABU0158

Blessed art thou for having found solace in the company of the loved ones of God and for having associated with them, and this is the way of the sincere ones. Hold fast unto the loved ones of God and separate not thyself from them.   BH01207

Fellowship makes every difficulty easy for man. These farmers now, despite such hardships, despite such an arduous life, find it a paradise because of their fellowship. Man must cultivate fellowship, must establish intimate association.   ABU2546

Strive in love and affection and associate closely with one another! Be distinguished from others by divine attributes and follow the way and conduct of the Sovereign of Sovereigns among the people!  AB00708

He said all of you here are sisters. Bodily relationships may pass; even two sisters may be inimical to each other, but the spiritual relationship is eternal, and brings about mutual love and service.  ABU2673

Whenever you who are believers meet with one another, your conversation should not be about worldly matters; you should advise each other how to live noble lives, and seek good examples in one another.  ABU1483

conduct yourselves with utmost love toward one another, purely for the sake of the Beloved. Consume the veils of self with the fire of oneness, and associate with each other with radiant and joyous faces   BH00970

Whoso desireth to sit with God, let him sit with My loved ones - this is a revelation from One Who is Mighty, All-Knowing. And whoso desireth to inhale the fragrance of the garment, let him inhale it from My chosen ones   BH02610

God willing, thou shouldst in all conditions fix thy gaze upon the All-Glorious and associate and consort with upright souls, illumined hearts and steadfast minds. Thus doth the Beloved counsel thee out of love for thyself.   BH03013

The divine friends are waves of one sea and drops of one river, flowers of one garden and fragrances of one rose garden, stars of one heaven and lamps of one chamber. They must care for one another and be kind to each other.   AB02998

associate with good people ... try to associate with those who will do you good and who will be the cause of your being more awakened, and not with those who will make you negligent of God  ABU1279

At one time We name friendship an ornament for the temple of man, and at another time a crown for his head and a light for his countenance.   BH08704


The friends must be like this, becoming the lowliest servants to one another, adopting the principle of the oneness of mankind, and walking in the ways of the denizens of the highest paradise.  AB07690

A friend is one who remains a friend's friend in times of distress and helplessness. Truly he has shown the utmost faithfulness. Know his worth.  AB04546

Friendship is a sun created by God for the heaven of humanity - through it his station is exalted and his worth becomes manifest among the peoples   BH06259

What doth the world possess if there be no love, and if there be no mention of friends? Indeed it would be worthy of naught, nay, less than naught would be better.  BH09330

The poet spoke truly when he said that three things are scarce, namely, the demon, the phoenix and the faithful friend. Yes, like the demon and the phoenix, the true friend is rare. But under the shadow of the Word of God, the Blessed Beauty has produced such friends for you.   ABU1980

Both spiritual and physical brotherhood are present, and both outward and inward fellowship are evident. This is among the greatest favors of the Intended Lord.  AB08713

Brotherhood is of two kinds: physical and spiritual. Physical brotherhood has no significance since it derives from the element of water and clay, not from heart and soul. But spiritual brotherhood is firm and strong since it derives from the essence of the honored spirit and is supremely precious and respected.  AB03324

Become so intimate with each other that you are viewed as one person and considered as the manifestation of heavenly unity, for the heavenly relationship is so strong that it cannot be dissolved for all eternity. In this world it is a perfect happiness and in the realm of Heaven it will continue to shine in eternal splendor.  AB12388

In brief, though outwardly far away and remote, and burning with the fire of separation, yet, because we are inebriated with the same wine and rejoicing in the bounties of our Forgiving Lord, because we are immersed in one ocean, wanderers in one desert, birds of one rose-garden, and fishes of one sea, therefore are we close companions and intimates, attuned and in harmony.  AB01510

The purpose is that I have the utmost love for you, and I hope through the favors of the Most Great Name that day by day these bonds will become stronger and the divine friends will show love to one another and become so enkindled with the fire of the love of God that they become the pulsating force in the veins and arteries of the world, and become outpouring clouds upon the plains and deserts of the heart and soul of the world.  AB04132

As much as you can, associate with the friends, scatter musk and ambergris, pour the wine of love into the goblet of fellowship   AB04300

The remembrance of loved ones is the cause of joy and delight, and the mention of friends is like the fragrance of a rose garden.  AB11237

Praise be to the one incomparable Lord and Dawning-Place of bounty, Who bestowed fellowship among His loved ones and adorned them with the ornament of love.   BH05358

We are all servants at that Threshold, therefore we are connected, we are attached, we are a bouquet of flowers. Hence our connection is firm in all respects.  AB11034

It is incumbent upon thee to assemble continuously with the beloved of God and to meet with those whose faces are illumined with the light of the love of God.  AB02807

Every man who believes in God is My brother, and every woman who turns to the Face is My sister, My handmaiden, and a leaf of My paradise among the unitarians.   BH07513

What manner of attachment and connection is this, and what manner of love and fellowship, that like an impregnable fortress of steel stands firm and established   AB05829

the friends are helpers and supporters of one another, and companions who care for each other, and such worthy ones who freely give their lives in the path of one another   AB05159

association with these loved ones is, before God, more beloved than all else. I swear by God that to gaze upon these faces is greater and more acceptable than seventy years of worship  BH11713

The friends must first completely eliminate estrangement among themselves and demonstrate the oneness of the human world.   AB01951

Go to see each other and be consoling friends to all. If a friend lives a little distance from the town, go to see him.  ABU2848

Whatever there is, we are together - companions, sharing the same condition, working together, and walking the same path.  AB05218

As long as ye can, strive to set aglow the hearts with love; be attracted to one another and be members of one body.  ABU2692

Pass your days with the utmost joy and fragrance, and be intimate companions with the righteous and the monotheists.   BH01224

"One of the greatest of these means is the spirit of true fellowship and loving communion amongst the friends."   AB06644

Be with My loved ones as thou hast been - thus hath shone forth the sun of permission from this luminous horizon.   BH07353

Any soul who communes with holy ones will surely yearn for this station with one hundred thousand times yearning.   AB07394


"In every matter consult with souls who are assured, tranquil, content and pleasing to God"   BH01687

that we may ever associate heart and soul with the friends and keep company with the steadfast ones   AB06753

The believers of God must be kind toward each other; if one commits a mistake the other must forgive.  AB10782

The duty of the believers of God is to be the servants to each other and attend to each other's wants.   ABU3545

Blessed is he who proclaims the doctrine of Spiritual Brotherhood, for he shall be the Child of Light.   ABU3107


unite with My loved ones and associate with them in a spirit of fragrance  BH05105

Show the utmost love and kindness to those blessed souls who are with you.  AB08648

Be companion to My loved ones whose faces shine with the radiance of bliss   BH03193

and be united with His loved ones. This is My bidding and My good-pleasure.  BH05700

We have commanded all the loved ones to unity, harmony, love and fellowship   BH01717

The friends of God must be kind to one another, whether it be in life or death.   ABU2341

Do not forget the friends and remain not silent in their remembrance.  AB08672

and no sweetness more delectable than fellowship with the beloved ones  AB12521

manifest great kindness toward those who have walked the straight path  AB07773

"Meet with My loved ones and unite with them in My love"  BH07873

Remember the friends and be a companion to the loved ones.  AB09561

Then associate with the loved ones of God in joy and delight   BH09413

Remember the friends and become the companion of the loved ones.  AB09561

"When a brother is loving, this is verily a gift from the Lord"   AB08331

Consort with the friends of God day and night  AB09837

must be a companion and intimate to the friends   AB06994

Associate and show such love to each other that the people of the city become astonished. Be kind to all souls  AB05584

Tell them that if they would attain nearness to the Blessed Beauty they must love much, for love is everything. America was the first of the western nations to accept the teachings and it should be the leader in spreading knowledge of it throughout the world. Tell them they must prepare for my coming with love.... Tell them love, only love and unity take anyone nigher God, and true teaching is of this.  ABU2656

Be with each other in utmost love and harmony, even sacrificing your lives for one another. If someone shows any shortcoming, treat them with forgiveness and tolerance. At most, offer a few words of advice with complete humility, and let that advice not be devoid of spirituality and fragrance.  AB01042


We hope that ye will conduct yourselves with one another in the utmost affection, love and friendship, in such wise that through your unity the standard of oneness may be raised aloft   BH00970

The more union and agreement appear amongst the believers of God the greater will be the divine Confirmations, the more uninterrupted will be the descent of the holy blessings from heaven! The friends must love each other with such deep sincerity as to move the hearts of those who come in touch with them.   ABU0603

Gird ye up the loins of endeavor, band ye together! Be ye loving towards each other! Banish, banish the nightmare of differences and ill-feeling. Your Maker has created you for love's sake!   ABU0928

In another station it is the love of God, glorified be His majesty - that blessing whose measure and station the pillars of the world are powerless to define. It is the cause of fellowship and the source of unity among the servants, and it is that which guideth people to the most exalted horizon.   BH00547

During such blessed days institutions should be founded that may be of permanent benefit and value to the people... they must be in the utmost harmony, love and oneness, clasping hands, engaged in the commemoration of the Blessed Beauty and thinking of the great results that may be obtained on such a blessed day.  ABU0220

"True Baha'i meetings are the mirrors of the Kingdom wherein images of the Supreme Concourse are reflected. In them the lights of the most great guidance are visible. They voice the summons of the heavenly Kingdom and echo the call of the angelic hosts to every listening ear. The efficacy of such meetings as these is permanent throughout the ages."  ABU0410

The believers of God must invite the people to the Feast of the love of God. In the Baha'i feasts the expression of moral sentiments must become very strong and overpouring and the table of divine life be spread. When the material and spiritual feasts are wedded together in love and affection, the child of harmony and peace will be born in the assemblage of the elect.   ABU2896

God willing, you must at all times be engaged in the remembrance of the All-Merciful and expend your complete effort and striving for unity and the gathering of the loved ones, so that the fragrances of unity may become manifest from that city which has become the place of God's captives, among all people, and all the friends in surrounding areas may testify to the unity of those souls.   BH02703

"I want you to be organized like a flock of the doves of Heaven, whose attitude and conduct toward each other is a symbol of that which will take place among human beings when human beings shall become willing to accept the guidance of the Holy Spirit."  ABU2793

Consultation in affairs is necessary and unity among the loved ones is essential. With harmony and accord and in a spirit of joy and fragrance they must enlighten the people of the earth and arise to reform it.  BH00268

the love of God is like an ocean, the believers its waves. All are the waves of one sea. Therefore, each is the representative of all. There is one ray, one reflection, from the sun but through various windows it reflects into the room. The light is one light and the Kingdom is one and all the believers are children of the same Kingdom. All are the letters of one book, the flowers of one garden, and the pearls of one sea.  ABU0508

God willing, thou shalt act with the utmost love and unity with the friends of God.   BH05281

Hold fast unto the cord of wisdom and associate with the loved ones in a spirit of joy and fragrance.   BH07061

Faith and Assurance are the fragrance of the rose which attracts individual believing souls together.   ABU3452

Strive to become a source of harmony, spirituality and joyfulness to the hearts of the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful  AB11106

The friends in that land must unite   BH03909

May all be utterly kind to one another  AB06216

to live in perfect love with one another  AB02478

You must have deep love for one another.  ABU2848

"I was drawn here by their unity and love."  ABU2297

create love and unity between the believers  AB03957

maintaining the utmost love toward each other   AB01089

"Observe what love and kindness exists between us."  AB11802

Associate amongst yourselves with love and affection   BH06615

still on another side the disunity among the friends   AB04248

that praise be to God, you are harmonious and united   AB07355

Blessed are ye for organizing the assembly of unity!   AB04145

my heart is attracted to the love of the friends of God   AB04141

Your presence there is the cause of maintaining harmony.  AB09029

witnessed the spirituality and love of the German friends  AB04305

I was very pleased at the love shown between you sisters.  AB09360

Associate with one another with the utmost love and kindness   BH03375

are associated with one another in utmost love and fellowship  AB08657

He commanded us to show love and kindness to all in the world.  ABU2878

Peace and harmony are among the requirements of the love of God.  AB10584

Spiritual Relationship is the true Family-hood of God's children.  ABU1627

observe how my heart and soul are stirred with love for the friends  AB07246

have reached such a degree of intimacy, love and heartfelt oneness   ABU1251

he strives to bring about unity and fellowship among the companions  AB04023

no harm has been or will be greater than discord between the friends   BH07568

So it is that these honorable souls serve us with such love and sincerity.   ABU2169

Today union and harmony are important things and have satisfactory effect.   AB05325

and the oneness of the free and the unity of the friends may become manifest   AB05882

I hope that the love of God may become the cause of their unity and agreement  AB03100

You two must be in utmost love and harmony with each other and arise to serve  AB03501

How attracted and enkindled are the German Bahais! How full of love they are!   ABU3162

God willing, may all gather in complete unity within the circle of recognition   BH10195

I remembered you again and took up my pen so you would know how much I love you   AB04924

Spiritual feelings are aroused, and love, fellowship and unity become manifest.   AB11957

people will live in friendliness, kindness and love which will bring forth unity.  ABU3401

Bahais journey long distances to see one another. I have traveled far to see you.  ABU2305

The news of the unity and harmony of the New York friends brings the utmost joy.   AB11891

"The friends in 'Ishqabad are cheerful, good-natured, faithful and sweet-scented."  AB11822

Unite all that is scattered and unify all that is divided and mend all that is torn  AB04233

they are in the utmost unity and the highest degree of oneness, fellowship and love   AB02607

Love one another. Live in Unity under the Tent of God. Firmness and Love make Unity.  ABU2905

that this servant's heart and soul overflow like a full cup with love for the friends  AB02362

Well known is it that this Wronged One loveth His friends and their presence is beloved  BH11182

This request and supplication is based solely on complete fellowship and heartfelt love  AB11017

become the cause of fellowship, love, companionship and gathering of the friends of God  AB04447

"from this matter the connection between the friends of God becomes clear and evident"   AB02367

Therefore this news was most fruitful and became the cause of joy, delight and gladness.  AB01820


Praise be to God, hearts are in the utmost connection and spirits are in perfect harmony  AB11892

The souls of wolves and dogs are separate / But united are the souls of the lions of God  AB05457

heart and soul are affected by the love of the friends and yearn in separation from them   AB11890

They are kind to one another and are self-sacrificing in promoting the heavenly teachings   AB02692

Be thou a cause of unifying hearts as much as thou canst and guide thou the heedless souls  AB08826

The greatest of all affairs is unity and harmony, the love and affection of heart and soul.   AB00975

"your spiritual love and union ought to be increased and you must become brother and sister"  AB06198

It is my hope that his pure breath may be the cause of the union and harmony of the friends   AB03655

all are obligated by the Divine Tablets to demonstrate love, unity, affection and fellowship   BH07568

Night and day I remember the friends of the All-Merciful and am in the utmost joy and delight.  AB12706

The good news of the unity and concord of the friends of New York proved a great source of joy.  AB02591


Unite ye in God's Cause and in His love. Through this shall the back of the idolaters be broken.  BH04995

All the friends must show him the utmost kindness so that his love may increase moment by moment  AB10252

"Add as much as ye can to love and affinity and produce ye among yourselves unity and agreement."  AB04423

Strive that with the aid of the True One this sublime station may be preserved by you in His Name.   BH09410

The sheep of one flock must gather together and do not let anything cause dispersion amongst them.   ABU1128

Strive that perchance differences may be wholly eliminated and transformed into the light of unity.   BH00322

You must strive as much as you can so that day by day Baha'i love, fellowship and unity may increase  AB03629

However, the members of consultation must have perfect love, harmony and sincerity with one another.  AB07356

Sing in all gatherings of the love and harmony of the beloved and the maidservants of the Merciful.   AB11516

"The loved ones of the Beloved must today be engaged in divine remembrance with utmost love and unity"  BH06366

meaning that the American friends must be raised up and gathered together in perfect unity and harmony  AB03112

Faith and Assurance are the fragrance of the rose which attracts individual believing souls together.   ABU3452

"strive with heart and soul so that day by day the fellowship and unity of the loved ones may increase"  AB05842

All the friends were delighted with its contents, as it indicated the unity and harmony of the friends   AB01530

No obstacle can prevent the heart from remembering the divine loved ones, and no barrier can intervene   AB05829

certainly you and all the divine friends must strive to establish peace between him and Muhtasham Nizam   AB06602

Would that all cities would learn from the unity, oneness, love and fellowship of the friends in Qazvin.   AB05782

The more you have love and genuine consideration for each other the happier is the heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha   ABU2388

In gratitude for this singular bounty, the friends must become loving to one another with heart and soul   AB04495

You have until now endured much trouble and hardship until you brought them into harmony with each other.  AB09029

Endeavor so far as thou art able to create unity, harmony and loving-kindness among the believers of God.  AB03542

You sacrifice yourselves in well-wishing and strive mightily to create love and unity between the parties.  AB00914

The Day is approaching when God shall bring the faithful together. In truth no God is there other than Him.  BB00486

all the letters indicated the fellowship, love and unity of the divine friends. This good news brought joy   AB05087

Today the unity of those firm in the Covenant is among the greatest of matters and most essential affairs.   AB03419

the friends of God may conquer this world through love, friendship and the strength of the Kingdom of peace  AB04443

praise be unto God, the Beneficent, that the friends are affectionate toward each other with heart and soul  AB10232

that the stranger becomes intimate, the deprived becomes privy to secrets, and the outsider becomes a friend  AB05375

Through the favors of the Ancient Beauty, I hope that they too will become similarly attracted to one another  AB08562

Strive ye as much as ye can;- so that love and amity may increase day and by day amongst the believers of God  AB11431

All of the friends, whether near or far, are well informed of what has been and what still makes Him pleased.   AB06664

pure hearts have become bound together with mighty bonds, and souls have been raised up like marshalled hosts   AB05260

"One of the greatest of these means is the spirit of true fellowship and loving communion amongst the friends."   AB06644

Convey the wonderful Abha greeting to each and all the believers of God. I have the utmost yearning to meet them.  AB06616

I am thankful to meet the spiritual friends and you also must be happy that God has allowed me to come among you.   ABU1062

Although they kindled the fire of enmity, praise be to God the friends are kind and show the utmost grace and favor  AB12026

be attracted by the Glad-tidings of the Kingdom of ABHÃ, lay the basis of love and amity, raise the melody of amity  AB09104

"The remembrance of friends brings happiness to the Friend, especially if that remembrance is for the sake of God."   BH02596

Thou art never forgotten or absent from my thoughts, for thou hast a dwelling place in the inner chamber of my heart  AB09494

Night and day your ultimate hope is love and fellowship with the friends, and in this path you sacrifice your life.   AB11934

In this cause we have many principles to which we adhere, the most important is to avoid that which creates discord.   ABU2416

I hope through divine assistance that day by day your gathering will expand and your unity and harmony will increase.  AB04340

This is none other than from the universal gift of the Divine Unity, that He has created such feelings between hearts.  AB05792

O Hands of the Cause! Gather together and unite, and become as one spirit, one soul, one body, one heart and one mind.  AB00972

Gather ye at the center of the circle of existence so that ye may partake of the bounties of the praiseworthy station.   AB05632

However, if differences of opinion arise there, you should remain completely detached and show love and kindness to all  AB01903

Every word that causes harmony and is the source of unity is loved and acceptable, and without it nothing is acceptable.  BH06869

In any case, by whatever means, a way must be found to the heart of the friend. Whatever form it may take is a good form  BH02568

Blessed is the soul who reclines upon his couch while his heart is illumined with love for all the peoples of the world.   BH11502

Final paragraph emphasizing importance of unity and oneness among the friends as a prerequisite for 'Abdu'l-Baha's visit.  AB12120

"Some believe that love is greater than intimate friendship" ... "in reality these two titles are one and the same thing"   AB07362

Once the Persian believers had such great love for one another that each wished the other to take possession of his wealth.   ABU1866

The friends must be like this - becoming trusted servants to each other, considering every pure and sincere soul as precious  AB07014

According to the Teachings of Baha'u'llah be ye as the Mercy of the Almighty to all the people of the world including the enemies.   AB03300

strive with heart and soul among the divine friends so that spiritual harmony may ever endure and divine affection may be manifested  AB05700

Blessed is the one who arises with strength to remove differences among the loved ones and establish love and affection between them   BH04234

Under all conditions, exert your utmost effort to unite hearts and gather them together around the Divine Law of God's Cause.   BH00672

praise be to God, through the effort of the friends this discord has ended in unity and this coldness in the warmth of the love of God  AB04117

the favor of God hath linked the friends one to another in such wise that each becometh the cause of the utmost felicity of the other   AB10623

gathered the scattered sheep and the dejected birds have come to song and melody and the rose garden has been adorned with sweet music   AB01346

Praise be to God that hearts are connected and souls are attracted, therefore all the divine friends have the utmost longing for a meeting   AB05361

"The intention is this, that during the course of this journey ye were all with 'Abdu'l-Baha in spirit, and present before his mind's eye."  AB02437

"It appeareth, from thine answer to a previous letter, that feelings of affection were being established between thyself and the friends."   AB04433

O My loved ones! Be ye united and in accord. Each one must be so enkindled with the fire of God's love that its effects encompass the earth.  BH00815

May thou become the cause of enthusiasm and rapture among the friends and the source of steadfastness and increase in love among the seekers  AB11933

If the blessed souls of that region unite and become of one accord, these hopes will be easily achieved and every difficulty will become easy.  AB04321

God willing, the loved ones of God in that land must be engaged in divine remembrance with perfect love and unity, turning away from all else.   BH02796

The utmost desire of the lordly ones is the union of the friends, the agreement of the believers and the spiritual communication of the hearts   AB02575

First must the Baha'is be united with one another in the utmost love and oneness, that they may raise aloft the banner of the unity of mankind.  AB07993

let the youth show respect and consideration for the elderly, and let the elderly be loving fathers to the youth...Let them care for one another  AB01315

Could ye know how my soul glows with your love, so great a happiness would flood your hearts as to cause you to become enamored with each other.  AB11451

India has a great latent capacity and its divine progress depends upon the faithfulness, unity and spiritual perception of the believers of God   ABU2044

This unity and harmony will grow stronger and love and affection will increase, reaching such a degree that you become as one heart and one soul   AB06574

To be far in body is of no account. To be near in spirit is essential. Seek that from God. When thou hast attained that, thou art always with me.  AB01045

you have gathered together in utmost affection and love, and on the Birth Day of the Exalted One (the Bab) you attained perfect fellowship and joy  AB04915

The glad tidings of the unity, enkindlement and attraction of the divine friends brought comfort to the soul and joy to the heart and conscience.   AB01324

Consider how sweet and pleasant and attractive this is! There can be no better proof than this, and no more appealing excuse and escape than this.   AB03484

Through the grace of the Most Glorious Beauty, we are connected and united like the links in the chain of the Beloved's locks in this supreme gift   AB04016

become united and at one with all peoples and nations of the world, both familiar and strange - that is, become loving friends and caring companions   AB01156

"The friends are worthy to sacrifice their very lives freely in each other's path and to engage in service, assistance and protection of one another."  AB05579

With all thy heart and soul be thou a sincere friend and a loving companion unto all, and show forth such deeds as are worthy of the divine Threshold.  AB12790

this servant, in accordance with "the believers are one soul, one spirit, and one body," has observed degrees of love and unity within myself and you.   BH00841

Now the lack of unity and oneness among the friends has reached such a point that the arrows and spears of strangers have completely lost their effect   AB05831

Every assembly held for the purpose of bringing about unity and concord will be conducive to turning strangers into friends and aliens into companions.  AB12052

Praise be to God that the loved ones of Iraq are holding fast to the Covenant and are enkindled with the fire of love for the Beloved of all horizons.   AB05459

Beseech thou God that He may cause the hearts of all the friends to be connected with the Most Great Ocean and adorn them all with the ornament of love.  BH09609

whosoever in this day becometh the cause of unity and harmony among the loved ones of God - he is recorded as one of the helpers in the perspicuous Book  BH09910

Therefore, this love which is among the beloved is a Divine bounty, a Godly splendor, an eternal manifestation and the power of Divinity; it is perpetual  ABU1197

The friends of God must be like a solid structure supporting one another, "The believers are like a solid structure, each part strengthening the other."   ABU0885

And Aqa Ali also has shown and continues to show the utmost effort toward achieving a good reconciliation, and desired the preservation of business unity  AB02391

cause them to be kind and loving toward one another, that each may sacrifice himself for the other and shower forth gems, hasten to the field of sacrifice   AB06735

This very unity in the letter is evidence of spiritual union and divine oneness. You have the status of one soul, one spirit, one reality and one victory.   AB01080

love and affection emerged, tongues were loosened in praise of one another, all the well-wishers of Iran became lovers and beloved ones and joined together   AB07255

Night and day we are remembering you and sincerely praying for you and the hope that we may meet. With the heart and soul I am longing for all the friends.   AB02845

"Others of these tables are unity and harmony amongst the believers, like as we are gathered here tonight, the effect of which will remain forever and ever."  ABU2192

Moreover, I submit to them that all must manifest perfect unity and harmony. Should any differences arise, those trusted ones of God should arise to remove them.  BH00628

"What is of utmost importance is the unity and agreement of all the friends and complete harmony among the beloved ones. This is the most important of matters."   AB04336

In the East the love of the believers is very great, but America has not yet reached this station. It is much better, but they must grow in love for each other.   ABU2655

Therefore, exercise the utmost love and kindness toward each other to the utmost degree, and love each other heartily and strive in the assistance of each other   AB07149

whenever facilities become available and the path becomes free of fear and danger, and the friends remain in complete unity and harmony, I will hasten to Ishqabad  AB04399

This love and affection and oneness and self-sacrifice...are among the decisive proofs of firmness in the Covenant of the sincere friends and agreeing loved ones   AB05124

On such blessed days, the friends of God must renew their unity and oneness, and must associate with one another in perfect love and kindness, in joy and delight.   AB03982

Set aside every thought and remove every difference from your midst...With perfect love and harmony, occupy yourselves with praising and glorifying the Mighty Lord  AB01621

Forsooth, their love is heartfelt and real; they are devoted in service with all their soul and they are attracted by the love of the friends with all their heart.  AB01956

O Baba Khan! Be a kind father to these weak creatures, nay rather to this suckling babe. Nurture them in the embrace of love and feed them from the breast of grace.  AB06050

If the friends of God in New York truly unite, in a short time they will shine like the sun and attain such joy that its rays will influence the horizons of America.  AB02080

Though outwardly you are in Shin while we are in Sin - that is, in the province of Syria - in reality we are under the shade of one Tree and are blessed by one Fruit  AB09879

The assured and confident ones should be seen as patient, silent, dignified and composed. They should not say what is not permitted, nor follow what is not befitting.  BH00219

Today the people of God must hold fast to unity and harmony, that all horizons may be illumined by the splendors of the light of the will of the Lord of the Covenant.  BH06869

The unity and harmony of the beloved of GOD constitute the most important affair. Unity and Harmony represent the magnet which will attract the confirmations of GOD.   ABU0957

One result is the creation of complete love between the friends. Second is the remembrance and progress of the faithful. Third is the penetration of the Word of God.   ABU1371

must hasten to meet him with the utmost love and respect, and must resort to all means of affection, and never allow any trace of past grievances to cross their minds  AB05601

"Whenever this servant's affairs become ordered, the conditions of the friends will be rectified, for in all matters and conditions you are a partner and participant"  AB06252

Now they must treat the aforementioned Haji with love and consider his welfare. The purpose is that the fragrance of friendship and unity may be diffused between them.  BH02688

We make mention of all the loved ones of God in this blessed leaf, that all may rejoice in His special favors and engage in serving His Cause in perfect love and unity.   BH03697

When the friends come together with one another in intimate fellowship and unity in the feast, the light of divine unity shines forth and infinite bounties are bestowed.  AB06070

The loved ones of God must be the cause of love, concord and fellowship in the world, that the light of divine unity may dawn forth and shine resplendent in every degree.  AB07804

Endeavor to your utmost ability that, day by day, unity and harmony will increase and the love of God will so firmly capture the hearts that they will forget all save Him  AB01295

Did God create us for love or for enmity? Did He create us for peace or discord? Surely He has created us for love; therefore, we should live in accordance with His will.  ABU0118

Today is the day of love and unity, and the day of concord and harmony. Ye must all speak with one word and soar in one atmosphere and dwell beneath the shade of one Tree.  BH10036

In all matters, endeavor not to cause grief to any one. Strive firmly to establish unity and harmony. The least difference today may cause great difference in the future.   AB01614

From one perspective it brought utmost joy, and that was the unity and accord of the handmaidens of the Merciful at Green Acre and the love and harmony that was achieved.   AB02376

O my friends! Strive as much as you can so that love and unity may increase day by day, and the love of God may so dominate hearts that mention of aught else is forgotten.  AB00772

praise be to God, the friends in Tehran have been freed from discord and all have become united and in agreement, sacrificing their lives in the path of the Blessed Beauty   AB06480

The message of love and concord has caused unbounded happiness in my heart and soul! The news of the harmony among the friends has been the harbinger of unending gladness.   AB01742

Such entertainments are always necessary, for they cause the increase of love, unity and harmony in the friends of God. Bring you about (such entertainments) by all means!   AB00372

I beseech God that the friends may never forget this covenant of unity and harmony until eternity, but rather may increase its firmness, strength and solidarity day by day.   AB04680

Praise be to God, the friends of God are in perfect harmony and unity, and compared to before have found rest and comfort and are occupied in servitude to the Divine Unity.   AB01896

What glad-tiding better than the one which thou hast imparted, to wit, that misunderstanding from among the friends has been eliminated and harmony and concord established!   AB01652

We have desired naught for the servants except love and unity. We beseech God to enable them to achieve what He hath willed for them and draw them nigh unto the Ancient King.  BH11816

I am greatly pleased by the unity of hearts of the friends, their united souls, their brilliant success, and the joyful and delighted acceptance of divine teachings by souls   AB12091

Therefore you must, in gratitude for this success, strive that by no means should any conversation occur among the friends that would cause difference, dispute and controversy.  AB12117

Every soul of the beloved ones must honor the others, and withhold not his possessions and life from them, and by all means he must endeavor to make the others joyous and happy.  ABU2692

the Greatest Name and the Ancient Beauty--may my soul be a sacrifice to His beloved--endured all difficulty and ordeals for the purpose of uniting the hearts of the beloved of God   AB04206

We were very pleased and glad about the unity of the friends in that country. I beseech God that day by day they may increase in unity, steadfastness, firmness and consultation.   AB03328

Now in thanksgiving for this great bounty and supreme protection, you must embrace one another and like devoted lovers kiss and embrace each other with utmost love and affection   AB00856

God willing, the fire of the love of God which is deposited in thy verses will become the cause of ascension and the reason for motion, and will unite the friends with the friends.  BH11852

Today the most beloved and acceptable deed before His Holiness Baha'u'llah is the unity of the friends and concord among men, while the most unacceptable is discord and disharmony.  AB07818

The greatest means of attracting the hearts and the raising of souls beneath the banner of the Most Ancient Beauty is none other than good fellowship and unity amongst the friends.  AB08219

Those souls who had attentive ears to hear counsel remained protected and preserved from all difficulties. It is incumbent upon the divine friends to unite the hearts of the nation  AB05628

The friends of God must be willing to sacrifice their lives for each other; their love must attain such heights of idealism and self-abnegation. You must love each other very much.  ABU2030

Strengthen the bond of love and harmony among the maid servants of the Merciful. Lead them to unity, concord, spirituality, meekness and obedience, and to the service of one another.  AB00958

Now, in Persia the friends have been ready to sacrifice not only possessions and lives, but they have also sacrificed their individual opinions for the sake of the unity of the whole  ABU2808

We had hoped that you would be the cause of unity and agreement between Mr. Jamshid Khodadad and Mr. Mirza Mahmud. Now it appears this did not happen. I still hope for this from you   AB00338

To be as one soul in many bodies; for the more we love each other, the nearer we will be to God; but that our love, our unity, our obedience must not be by confession but of reality.   ABU1013

Do not suppose that this heart has any attachment to any flower save the countenance of the friends, or that this soul finds fragrance in any garden save the garden of their character.  AB08977

like twin trees from a single root, you have grown together, that is, you have found complete connection with each other, put forth leaves and blossoms, and borne fresh and tender fruit  AB06191

The news concerning the unity, harmony, affinity and oneness of the maidservants of the Merciful One and the friends of God in those parts imparted the utmost joy and happiness (to us).  AB01051

If this love and unity becomes manifest, the counsels and exhortations of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, will be realized in the realm of existence.   AB01554

Your blessed names in the letter of Khan had a wondrous display, for it was a mighty proof of the unity of the path and evidence of the fellowship, love and oneness of that small group.   AB04507

Formerly, in Persia it was impossible for Mohamedans, Christians and Jews to be friends and to meet lovingly; but all will make an effort, in order that this love and union may progress.   ABU2353

it is incumbent upon all the companions and loved ones to be seated upon the thrones of love and to repose upon the cushions of affection, and to move about in the station of united souls.  BH09808

O ye beloved of the Lord! Strive to become the manifestations of the love of God, the lamps of divine guidance shining amongst the kindreds of the earth with the light of love and concord.  AB01214

O ye true friends! Be kind to each other, therefore in heart and soul! Be sacrificing in the path of love towards each other so that ye may be accepted in the threshold of the One True God.  AB02335

Through the news of the progress of the Cause of God, and the unity and agreement of the beloved of God, great joy was realized, and to such an extent that I forgot all sorrow and all ills.  AB03199

When such complete connection and harmony is achieved among the handmaidens of God as exists between you and Lua, surely progress will be made day by day and joy and gladness will increase.  AB08178

"You must know this, that the principle of the divine foundation is love, unison, oneness and the purity of intention. When love is attained, the mystery of truth will then become manifest."  AB03878

May the divine friends in Bombay become free from discord and become intimate companions and confidants in harmony. The more intense the unity becomes, the greater will be the heavenly bounty  AB03510

Thou shouldst at all times, with the utmost happiness, rapture, joy and gladness, consort with the handmaids of the Merciful, bring joy and felicity to all, and lead them to the Divine bounty.   AB04968

I was very pleased and happy with the unity and harmony of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, especially with the expression "we are all devoted to each other and handmaidens of one another."  AB01261

However, not a word should be uttered about him that would conflict with love and fellowship, lest two harms result: one, acting contrary to wisdom, and the other, the manifestation of discord.   BH05118

I beseech God that this heart's attachment become clear and manifest, that the secrets of hearts be revealed, that the cup of love overflow and pour forth such abundance that it may satisfy all   AB05689

one thing remains, and that is the unity and agreement of the friends, that they may be as the waves of one sea and the rays of one sun, as the branches, leaves, blossoms and fruits of one tree   AB05510

Just as your bodies are gathered together, your hearts are joined, your souls are in agreement - you are waves of one sea and rays of one sun, trees of one garden and flowers of one rose-garden.  AB03515

Love is like an essence - whatever remains after it is extracted from anything neither nourishes nor avails. We beseech God not to deprive the whole world from the lights of the Sun of His love.   BH01318

This will be possible if the friends of God associate with each other in the utmost love, affection and oneness, and strive day and night to comfort one another and promote the divine teachings.   AB01206

We must show love and kindness, and through faithfulness and purity prove that we are all servants of that Threshold - truthful, steadfast, vigilant and real Baha'is, not just in word and tongue.  AB01083

Deal with one another with the utmost love and kindness. Should anyone commit a wrong, forgive him; remind him with perfect love. Be not harsh, neither show pride and arrogance toward one another.  BH00232

As for my presence in America, this depends on the friends of God achieving such unity and harmony that they become as one soul, so that like a magnet attracting iron, they may draw me to America.  AB02190

The news of your unity and harmony imparted the utmost joy and happiness, I hope that day by day you may increase your love, your self-sacrifice, your firmness in the Covenant and Testament of God   AB04215

"O divine friends! Be, with heart and soul, well-wishers of all peoples and religions... Be well-wishers to all, whether friend or foe. Serve all with faithfulness, whether stranger or acquaintance."  AB01353

Let none wrong another, nor let any companion speak ill of his companion, nor let any brother deny his believing brother. Fear God in all that We have revealed unto you, and be among the God-fearing.   BH01365

However, the most important factor is unity and fellowship amongst the friends. As Rumi says: The souls of wolves and dogs are separate from one another, but united are the souls of the lions of God.   AB04276

Therefore, make an effort that harmony may be established, for this will be the cause of joy and gladness to the heart and soul of 'Abdu'l-Baha. Otherwise He shall remain sorrowful and grief-stricken.  AB09056

Lo! they are your brothers and sisters, closer to you than your own kith and kin. They are impelled by the same common ideas - - Brotherhood and Peace. The Love of Baha'u'llah has united their hearts.   ABU0377


Therefore, if you want these difficulties removed, there is no solution except faith and certitude. Faith is the cause of harmony. Faith is the cause of love. Faith is the cause of unity and agreement.   AB01574

God willing, they should turn with perfect unity and harmony toward the horizon of the appearance of the Luminary of the horizons. Unity hath ever been and shall continue to be beloved in the sight of God  BH06758

Rancor and hatred beseemeth not the people of truth, even if it be toward those who have gone astray. This is the straight path, the mighty cord, and the command of God, the Just King, the Manifest Truth.   BH01103

assemble Thy loved ones beneath the shadow of the tree of Thy oneness, that they may stand before Thy throne, and catch the accents of Thy voice, and gaze on Thy beauty, and discover the power of Thy might  BH08827

You and the friends of God should serve the loved ones in such a way that the dusty earth becomes the Abha Paradise, and spiritual love, fellowship and joy, and conscientious delight encompass all regions.  AB06762

Always show kindness and affection to the relatives in Merv and 'Ishqabad and demonstrate the utmost love and care so that they may be refreshed by life-giving breezes at all times and advance day by day.   AB05215

Rather, all the friends must offer the utmost praise for one another so that it may bring joy to the heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha. Otherwise, sorrow will prevail and counsels will involuntarily flow from the pen.  AB02453

Today the glad tidings that bring joy to the heart and soul of 'Abdu'l-Baha are news of the friendship and oneness of the beloved ones who are in the utmost love and fellowship, arm in arm with each other.   AB05084

Our shelter is the lane of the Beloved, and our faces are turned toward the resplendent Sun. We are in the Abha Garden, luminous and radiant. The light of the love of God shineth brilliantly from every face.  AB07698

When I hear that the American believers are united in love and harmony, I shall be very happy; and I shall be happy indeed when I know that they love each other well enough to give their lives for each other.  ABU1635

"create harmony and agreement among the believers and impart to them the glad-tidings of the confirmation which they will receive from God if the differences of opinion be removed and if they unite and agree"  AB04207

Praise be to God! A hundred thousand praises be to the Goal of the world's peoples, that in such days as these He hath made firm the fellowship of His loved ones and hath regarded the connection between them.   BH01920

In the world of existence, the greatest of all affairs is fellowship and love between hearts, especially among the loved ones of God. Strive as much as you can that day by day fellowship and love may increase   AB04743

Praise be to God that through the Favor and Generosity of Baha'u'llah, although the Believers, like unto the waves of the ocean, are separate in appearance, yet in reality they are united and belong to one sea.  AB03318

Ye must a thousand times and continually cleave fast unto this magnet, so that the aid, protection, and gracious favor of the Blessed Beauty may be witnessed by ye successively and continuously from all sides.   AB03785

I beseech God that He may bestow blessings from the clouds of mercy and the heaven of generosity, and likewise grant fellowship and unity, for most of the world's affairs have depended and depend upon these two.  BH00954

continuously increase in love and devotion, and establish strong bonds and attachments with each other until you attain the station of one soul and do not draw a single breath without each other's good pleasure   AB05682

"Thus, this love and oneness must first be established among the beloved of God, and then spread to all nations. In any case, show forth as much kindness as you can toward one another and likewise toward others."  AB01707

those souls have become established upon the throne of unity and have taken shelter beneath the tabernacles of oneness. They are intoxicated and astonished from one cup and are stirred and amazed by one fragrance.  AB00887

Should the Spirit of true Love permeate the assemblies of men on earth, they, verily, will grow to become a string of heavenly pearls, a guiding constellation that sheddeth its glory and radiance over all mankind.  AB05943

Regarding certain matters you had written about - this servant hopes through the grace of the Blessed Beauty that that dust will settle and that discord will disappear. Once again times will become sweet as sugar.   AB02352

My happiness lies in seeing you, for in your faces are apparent the glad tidings of the Abha Kingdom and in your hearts heavenly love and attraction. If outwardly we fail to meet, it does not weaken our real love.   ABU1849

"As to ye who are friends of that bird of the meadow of guidance, ye must, after her, have such unison, love, association and unity that it may make things better and more favorable than they were during her days."  AB01262

And I counsel you to devote all your energy to affection, love, unity and harmony, so that each may bow before the other, and each may sacrifice their life in love for the other, and true prosperity may be realized.  AB01209

So thou shouldst love with all thy heart and soul the maid-servants of the Merciful and associate with them in utmost affection in order that thou mayest realize divine happiness and behold the outpouring of mercy.   AB03752

The friends of God must be like bouquets of roses, disseminating their sweet fragrances from one to another. They must assist each other so that in the powers of the Kingdom co-operation and reciprocity be obtained.  AB08449

Observe Qazvin, how the friends are in the utmost unity and harmony...May all arise in unity and harmony to diffuse the divine fragrances...We are all servants of one threshold and bondsmen at the court of one Lord.  AB09432

Strive as much as you can that day by day the unity and oneness of the friends may increase, so that the Cause of God may take root in that land and region. Otherwise, whatever has been established will be scattered.  AB06167

For the sincere servants of the Supreme Lord have thousands of commands but one soul, one spirit and one conscience. They are flowers of one garden and waves of one sea, stars of one horizon and lamps of one chamber.  AB01622

He is the cause of unity among the loved ones and the means of harmony among the friends. From this praise, joy and relief were produced in hearts, and from this news, the effect of happiness became manifest in souls.  AB07969

Therefore, we must strive with all our might so that no friend becomes estranged and no soul becomes disheartened or hurt. Thus you must, in whatever way possible, act in such a manner that creates joy and fragrance.   AB04019

The friends of God must sacrifice their lives for the sake of each other - to such an extent that the people may become astonished and exclaim: "What love and amity flow from the hearts of the Baha'is for each other!"   AB03589

It was proof of the unity and harmony of the friends, who are all, aflame and attracted, united and in harmony, occupied with exalting the Word of God and diffusing the divine fragrances and teaching the Cause of God.   AB01467

I hope that all the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful may be united with each other so that Abdul-Baha without any cloud may travel from the East to the West. It is hoped that this unity may become realized.  AB03149

Thou didst write of the love and unity of the friends and of their firmness in the Covenant. This is due to the confirmations of the Abha Kingdom, which have enabled these persons to draw nigh and abide in the Covenant.  AB03989

O friends, know that the believers of God must be the cause of union and love among all mankind, and until they attain to perfect harmony and agreement they will not become the remedy for the healing of this sick world.  AB10289

I hope that all the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful may be united with each other, so that Abdul-Baha without any cloud may travel from the East to the West. It is hoped that this unity may become realized.  AB06535

If the friends of God unite and agree as they should, have no doubt that in a brief time the Light of the Supreme Horizon will cast such a ray from the Abha Kingdom as to completely melt away the veils of vain imaginings.  AB07730

If perfect unity and oneness as desired by the Ancient Beauty is not achieved among us, the Most Great Cycle will bear no fruit. Rather, this community will be like previous communities, nay it will be completely effaced.   AB00993

Strive as much as you can to become the cause of unity and harmony among the loved ones of God. If you are successful in this, all your hopes and desires will be fulfilled and you will be confirmed in God's good pleasure.   AB01898

Through His sacred will, has bestowed perfect fellowship between the hearts and souls of all people, and from this fellowship complete unity is achieved, and this unity is the most mighty door for the tranquility of nations   BH03638

Stand firm in the divine Cause and walk with one another in perfect love, purely for the sake of the Beloved. Burn away the veils of self with the fire of oneness, and associate with each other with radiant and joyous faces.  BH02157

And if any estrangement occurs between two of the friends, both should be invited and efforts made to reconcile them, and they should consult about charitable and benevolent works so that praiseworthy results may be achieved.  AB00696

But the intentions and purposes of all must be pure love and absolute harmony, otherwise harm will result and separation will ensue, and the matter will be reversed - the very means of harmony will become the cause of discord.  AB01857

The friends of God must be like flowers of one garden adorning one another, and like waves of one sea supporting and assisting one another, and like rays of the Sun of Truth all connected from the center to the circumference.   AB06768

Make the erection of the Temple in America conducive to the unity and oneness of the believers, of the maid-servants and servants of the Merciful, so that in one thought, one aim, they engage themselves in building the Temple.  ABU1892

the believers of Detroit, Grand Rapids, Muskegon, Chicago and Fruitport have gathered together and have spent their time with perfect love, unity and joy... associate with each other with the utmost amity, affection and harmony  AB02927

the friends are helpers and supporters of one another, and companions who care for each other, and such worthy ones who freely give their lives in the path of one another. This is the foundation of the Faith of the All-Merciful   AB05159

I have sacrificed Myself for the unity of all who are on earth. O loved ones! Strive that ye may remove the traces of discord from the face of the earth and cause the lights of unity to shine forth resplendent among all people.   AB00180

In truth, today all the friends are present in this Garden of Ridvan in heart and soul as confidants and intimate companions, witnessing and harmonious. Divine grace and bounty has joined hand in hand the friends of East and West  AB02370

The harm to one is harm to all, the good of one is good of all. Let no one utter anything but good about another, and never speak ill. If a shortcoming is found, let there be forgiveness and forbearance, treating the opposite way.  AB01663

This was news that brought joy. I beseech the divine favors that this unity and oneness may increase day by day, and that not a single soul may remain except that they enter this circle of oneness with the utmost love and kindness.  AB09301

From news of the unity, love, oneness and fellowship among the divine friends brought the utmost joy and gladness. I hope that at all times there will be spirituality and fellowship among the friends and complete unity and harmony.  AB12807

You must absolutely, with utmost joy and fragrance and with the power of the Kingdom of God, proceed there and through spiritual power eliminate that discord by whatever means possible and establish complete love among the friends.  AB12095

With utmost endeavor and diligence, be occupied with unifying hearts and bringing about accord among souls, that perchance the turbid winds may be stilled and the fragrance of love and purity may waft among the loved ones.   BH03152

The Master also said that the gladdest tidings to Him are that the believers are living in love and obedience, and are spreading the Great Message and that our love, our unity, our obedience must not be by confession, but of reality.   ABU1180

unity and accord are among the greatest of matters, and oneness and fellowship are the cause of the joy of 'Abdu'l-Baha and the glory of all. Without unity and accord, success and divine confirmation are entirely lost and non-existent  AB11812

Therefore I hope that in Shiraz thou wilt be engaged with melody and song, and wilt make the friends intimate companions and confidants of one another, so that this existing discord may disappear and this estrangement may end in unity  AB12405

Words that spring from the essence of the heart and appear from the flame of the fire of love bestow spirit and fragrance upon hearts and grant joy and gladness to the soul and conscience, especially mention of friends and loved ones.   AB01208

The first thing the Baha'is must do is to feel love and unity in their hearts before they can spread it among others. I am waiting and expecting to hear that love and harmony have blossomed in the hearts of all the Baha'is in America.   ABU3588

Let no one utter a word that might cause him sadness of heart. Despite all our efforts to remove ill-feeling between the friends, it has not been achieved...strive your utmost that complete harmony and love may be established among all  AB12598

Today one must seek peace and righteousness and become the cause of tranquility, fellowship and harmony among all peoples. One must take in hand the cup of love and intoxicate the companions of the gathering with the wine of fellowship.  AB10389

I swear by the holy dust of the Blessed Threshold that it brought such joy as is beyond description...for it brought glad tidings of unity and harmony among the friends, and heralded fellowship, oneness and love between the beloved ones  AB03200

In good and evil, profit and loss, hardship and ease, all must be partners. God willing, we hope that the breeze of unity will waft from the City of the Lord of all beings and clothe all in the garment of oneness and love and detachment.  BH09439

Endeavor to strengthen the bonds of amity among the beloved of God and His maid-servants. Thus may they attain that attitude of sacrificing even life for one another. For the love of one another they should sacrifice all that is possible.  AB07136

God willing, you are assisted and confirmed in what is needed and proper today, which is bringing about reconciliation among the friends and unity among the companions and harmony among the loved ones and fellowship among the chosen ones.  AB11851

Observe the divine connections, that one from Kurdistan makes a request for a letter to be written to the friends in Turkistan from 'Abdu'l-Baha in Syria. What fellowship is this, what love is this, what bounty is this, and what blessing!  AB12483

You should love them and consider them as of your own families. Do not look upon them as separated from you. Baha'u'llah has said that all of you are as branches of one tree, leaves of one branch. That is, all the people are of one tree.   ABU0713

"The friends in the East are all united and agreed. There are none who waver in the East, none who oppose the Covenant of God. There is not a single soul among the Baha'is in Persia who is opposed to the Covenant. They are all steadfast."  ABU0066

The friends of God were associating with great harmony and friendship. I entreat from God that the believers may at all times strive to bring about union and harmony, in order that this power of unity may display an effect in this world.   AB04289

the friends of God are humble and submissive, and show utmost love and affection toward one another... so that the radiant flame of true fellowship may be kindled in the assemblage of the world and utterly consume the veil of estrangement   AB03386

With great esteem they welcomed her in Tihran. All the friends are now like brothers and sisters to her - even more than that and kinder. She is well-known as a Baha'i in Tihran and is respected and loved within and without the community.   ABU2437

Therefore, in thankfulness for this tremendous grace and profound favor, conduct yourselves with one another in the utmost fellowship and love, and remain far from any discord or difference. All be as one sea and one stream and one person.  AB02508

I hope that this love and unity may increase day by day, and its effects may reach other regions. Therefore, the friends of God and the daughters of the Kingdom must serve this purpose and become the cause of joy to the heart of Abdul-Baha.   AB04378

O two brothers who are one soul in two bodies! Praise be to God that physical and spiritual brotherhood, bodily and spiritual fraternity, are combined in these two brothers. This is true and sincere brotherhood - it is blessed and auspicious.  AB06181

My purpose in saying this is this that thou shouldst treat all the servants of God and all the tribes and nationalities of the world whether from the east or the west with the sense of oneness and with the utmost truthfulness and kindliness.   AB03938

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having united through the breaths of Thy servant manifest among Thy loved ones, and gathered together Thy trusted ones, and thereby quickened the hearts of Thy chosen ones, and brought together Thy poor ones.   AB03049

All your letters are the product of a sincere pen, for they indicate the unity of the divine friends... I hope that, through the favors of the Blessed Beauty, he may show extraordinary valor in fostering love and fellowship among the loved ones.  AB08568

The eastern bird has made its home in the western nest, and the western bird has taken shelter in the eastern nest. It has brought together the Nusayri with the Israelite. What universal sovereignty this is, and what penetrating heavenly power!   AB01166

If all the powers of the world had joined forces, still it would have been impossible that hearts could be attracted to such a degree and that we should be assembled in a meeting such as this with so much love, loving one another heart and soul.  ABU2594

This confirmation will descend upon the people of America if they will all arise and endeavor with great courage to establish union and harmony, so that every trace of difference may be uprooted and they may all become as one heart and one soul.   AB06587

"What brings delight and gladness is news of the affinity of hearts, and conversely, news of division and discord causes a hundred thousand sorrows. Praise be to God that this recent letter spoke of the love and affinity of the cherished friends."  AB01343

How sweet is this moment when I am engaged in remembering you and occupied with your mention. At times, from the breezes of the love of the friends, I am like a surging sea, and at times I am a bird soaring on the wing of attachment to the friends.   AB03815

Gather beneath the shade of the Word of Oneness and assemble under the banner of the presence of Unity! Arise to manifest the mighty signs of the Most Great Resurrection and set about to spread abroad the brilliant lights of this Most Great Revival!  AB00708

If harmony and unity be produced among the beloved, the belief and faith will grow advantageously, and that country will become enlightened. Otherwise, the Fire of the Love of God will be completely quenched, and all will be scattered and frustrated.  AB03067

To serve the Cause of God in this day is to build the bonds of love amongst the friends of God. Let us all associate with one another with the utmost poverty and selflessness, with evanescence, and radiance of spirit, with meekness and holy humility.  AB09617

I am so filled with spirit and fragrance in mentioning the loved ones of the All-Merciful that weariness, tedium and exhaustion completely vanish, even were I to be occupied and engaged in writing from morning till midnight, and to write continuously.  AB08609

My hope has always been with the friends in the East, for they are the essence of the Cause and through them the Cause of God has become firmly established in Iran. How is it possible that they would be forgotten for even a moment or fade from memory?  ABU2736

Therefore, each of the friends must strive with heart and soul to ensure that not even the slightest dust settles upon the mirror of essential unity, and that day by day love, harmony, fellowship, association and kindness may increase among the friends.   AB01743

O My Name! Remind My loved ones and My friends in My behalf with a remembrance that will generate love and unity in such wise that they will renounce all they possess, clinging to that which hath come to them from the True One, the Knower of things unseen.  BH00063

If the friends of God who have quaffed the mystic wine and attained recognition of God, exalted be His glory, would manifest fellowship and unity in all lands and regions, assuredly would the Sun of the Cause and its effulgences encompass all created things.  BH01330

The glad-tidings of the unity and oneness of the loved ones brought great joy and delight. If this unity of the pure ones becomes firmly established, in a short time Tehran will become a paradise of good-pleasure and that land will become a supreme paradise.  AB05619

I therefore hope that you will become the cause of removing this estrangement that exists among the righteous ones in that land. For it causes great harm to the Cause of God, and no pleasant or beneficial results can be expected for any of the friends there.  AB03940

Arise to manifest the love of God and His Cause among His servants, then reconcile between His loved ones in such wise that We may perceive from them the fragrance of unity. This is the greatest of all deeds in the sight of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.   BH02703

so that they may chant words of love throughout all regions and call all to the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting in this witnessed Day, and raise the banner of amity among the servants, and make the three persons as one soul in all conditions and circumstances   AB04914

meaning that harshness has been transformed into kindliness and coldness between them has been changed to warmth. The friends have grown weary of estrangement and have embraced friendship; they have moved beyond separation and have arisen in unity and harmony.   AB05872

The divine counsels of the All-Merciful and the heavenly exhortations of the Lord are recorded and inscribed in every leaf, and the primary purpose hath been and is to extinguish the fire of hatred and animosity, and likewise to elevate and exalt their stations.  BH11920

Among the friends, there does not exist, as there should and ought to, love and affection and togetherness and unity, and this has become a great cause of burning anguish and regret in hearts - that strangers are unified and united while the friends are divided.  AB06022

The Blessed Perfection came for the purpose of uniting the people, that He might link them together. For this purpose you must prove the means of unity to the inhabitants of the earth. This is His hope for you. If among yourselves there is no love, no unity, how can this become possible? Are you willing that His labors, His sorrows be in vain? All is to bring love to your hearts. It is certain not to be in vain. 

Light ye the candle of the love of God and drink ye the wine of the knowledge of God, and make your palate sweet with the honey of love and unity, so that the countenance of divine bestowal may appear in that gathering with the utmost grace, beauty and sweetness.  AB09610

Today strive with all your powers that the friends of God may achieve the utmost unity and harmony, for this is among the most important obligations...By whatever means possible, all must be guided - nay, compelled - to gather beneath the shade of the Word of Unity.  AB04155

This is my hope: that the Nineteen Day Feast become the cause of great spiritual solidarity between the friends, that it may bring believers into the bond of unity, and we will then be so united together that love and wisdom will spread from this centre to all parts.  ABU0702

Let unity and attraction reach such a degree that the friends serve one another and become stirred and proud in humility and submissiveness to each other. Let each consider the other his master, and each person see his friend as the means of reaching the Supreme Friend.  AB00667

In New York, due to the discord that exists among the friends, the Cause is declining day by day. If it remains thus, it will be completely extinguished. If you wish to render a great service, strive to completely remove this discord. The Cause will immediately progress.  AB04652

O loved ones of God! Be not at variance among yourselves. Rather, remove all differences between you and be not hard of heart if ye be among those who know. Show mercy unto yourselves and your brethren, transgress not the straight path, and be not among the transgressors.  BH01776

Therefore it behoveth you to strive with heart and soul so that the human world may shine resplendent, that the basis of hatred and antagonism may be wiped out from the earth and that all mankind may live together in unity and harmony, with the utmost love and fellowship.  AB03319

I hope that the friends in Tehran will be sanctified and pure from these things and will become an example to the friends of other lands in unity and agreement and oneness of being and oneness of attributes and oneness of love and oneness of views and oneness of thoughts   AB11636

Glory be to God! What grace and bounty is this that is specially bestowed upon the servants of the Divine Unity - that though one is in the East and one in the West, in reality they are present in one gathering and intimate companions in the feast of love and fellowship.   AB01826

That is why there must be much love amongst the believers of God. The friends of God must sacrifice their lives for the sake of each other. Their love for each other must be so great. You must love each other very much. They must become like unto one spirit and one heart.   ABU1717

Now in gratitude for these favors we must arise to serve the Lord of wondrous attributes and stand firm in the Covenant so that Baha'i unity may remain safe and protected. Consider that by no power is it possible to preserve Baha'i unity except by the power of the Covenant.  AB00578

'Gird up your loins in union and harmony, so that the Lord may strengthen your backs in His mighty Kingdom, make you servants in His excellent vineyard, raise you to the highest stations in this glorious age, and cause you to reach your greatest hopes in this auspicious day."  AB02844

Today the greatest of obligations is the unity of the friends of God. You must certainly exert great effort to bring about, by whatever means, complete harmony among the friends. You must give this matter your utmost attention. And today there is no service greater than this.   AB01496

Therefore, Ye should love the friends with all your hearts and souls and offer up your lives for one another. Deny them not any service. Do not consider any hardship to be too difficult. Let each one become the beloved of one and all, and the object of one another's attention.   AB06207

Now you must strive diligently night and day to become dawning-places of the lights of unity and rising-points of the lights of detachment, and to blend with one another with utmost love such that the cloud of favors will pour forth and the lights of bestowal will shine forth.   AB02281

O ye friends of 'Abdu'l-Baha! As far as ye are able, bind fast the cord of fellowship, and from the love of one another be ye filled to overflowing like unto a brimming cup, so that the lamp of essential unity may shine forth through these manifold vessels and cast its rays abroad  AB08340

I hope for such results from this amity that it will lead to spirituality in the world, to impart guidance to all who dwell on this earth. I hope for such results from this gathering that it will not be like other gatherings of people who forget each other as soon as they disperse.  ABU1379

This is the time of fellowship and unity, and the season of love and harmony. You are all waves of one sea and rays of one lamp, dewdrops of one cloud and meanings of one book, candles of one assembly and fragrant flowers of one garden. Strive as much as you can in love and oneness  AB01610

This prisoner, despite those calumnies and various persecutions, completely forgot his corruption, oppression and rebellion. Again, I treated him with utmost love and called all the friends to such a degree of love for him that they circumambulated him and kissed his hands and feet.  AB00107

The divine friends must make the unity of the human world their highest aim and aspiration. This unity must first be established among the friends of God so that it may afterwards spread to other peoples. Such unity is impossible save under the shadow of the banner of God's Covenant.  AB01012

"Some of you may have observed that I have not called attention to any of your individual shortcomings. I would suggest to you, that if you shall be similarly considerate in your treatment of each other, it will be greatly conducive to the harmony of your association with each other."  ABU2793

Exert thyself, O maid-servant of God, that thou mayest guide thy relatives and bring union and accord among the beloved ones and harmony among the maid-servants of God; and that thou mayest become of the myrtles of the Paradise of Oneness and of the trees of the Reality of Singleness.   AB04608

Show kindness and practice good conduct. Be gentle and peaceful, and become an intimate companion to every stranger. Counter treachery with faithfulness, respond to anger with kindness, repel wrath with forbearance, allay oppression with justice, and eliminate cruelty through fidelity.   AB02788

"O thou favored maid-servant of God! Thy letter was received. Thou has expressed joy on account of thy visit to the friends in Chicago. I also yearn to visit them. At the time when ye were assembled in the house of Mrs. . . . . . . . . , Abdul-Baha was also present with heart and soul."  AB01722

And strive as much as you can to prevent discord of views arising among the friends, for this is among the greatest blows and causes the effacement of God's Cause and the extinction of individuals. Keep this matter greatly in view, for discord of views is more severe than deadly poison.  AB01094

O ye beloved of the Lord! Be united, stand ye together, and cleave tenaciously to the Sure Handle of the Covenant. Bend your energies towards exalting the Word of God, so that the light of Truth may envelop the whole of creation and the darkness of hatred and error may be utterly dispelled.   AB00048


Tell the friends that whenever I receive news that they are in harmony so that their hearts are overflowing with love for one another, that they are a comfort to one another, and that they have devoted their time to serving mankind without any exception, then my health improves more and more.  ABU2681

The aim of the appearance of the Blessed Perfection--may my life be a sacrifice for His beloved ones!--was the unity and agreement of all the people of the world. Therefore, my utmost desire, firstly, is the accord and union and love of the believers and after that of all the people of the world.  AB02666

He said the one essential, the only thing to do was that the members of the little groups should love each other very much and be devoted friends. The more they loved each other, the more the meetings would attract and draw others, and the more they loved, the more their influence would be felt.  ABU3218

The Hands must be united in word and thought, and with perfect love and oneness, arise to spread servitude and exalt this servant's bondage at the Threshold of Oneness. They must promote whatever this servant writes, and in all conditions think only of being interpreters of this servant's tongue.  AB00254

tell them that 'Abdu'l-Baha is constantly waiting to receive good news in regard to the plenteousness of the Fire of the Love of God in New York: that the believers unanimously and harmoniously do their utmost to revive the hearts, guide the souls and their arising to attract the spirits (of men).  AB05591

The All-Merciful Lord has ordained that the blessed countenance of each one should be reflected in the mirror of another's heart, so that, embracing one another, they may demonstrate the utmost oneness and, like the trees in the garden of the Concourse on High, become fruitful in a single paradise.  AB07973

If thou desirest rest and tranquility, repose beneath the shade of the palm tree of hope, and if thou seekest prosperity, occupy thyself with kindliness toward the human race. The divine teachings today promote love and righteousness, and make fellowship and human welfare as resplendent as the moon  AB09893

You are all immersed in one ocean and illumined by one sun, rising from one horizon and shining from one dawning-place, receiving grace from one source and benefiting from one Creator, soaring in one atmosphere and gazing in one direction. This is the essence of oneness and the reality of singleness.  AB00513


It was an absolute impossibility for a Zoroastrian to unite with a Jew, a Seyed, and a Mullah and for these to unite with a Christian was an impossibility; but the power of the Covenant has even so gathered them that they are accounted as one spirit. Although the bodies are numerous, the spirit is one.   ABU2270

Whenever I hear the believers are united I am most happy. The spirit of Baha'u'llah overshadows those souls who work for the Cause of unity, speak the Words of Unity, upraise the Standard of Unity and circulate the Spirit of Unity. How I love to see the friends so united as to be one soul in many bodies!  ABU2783

Therefore, O longtime friend, strive with heart and soul that estrangement may be removed from among God's servants and spiritual, conscientious, merciful oneness may emerge. When this paragon of unity and harmony appears in the gathering of friends, spiritual joy and divine celebration will be established  AB01813

I beseech God to unlock before ye the doors of unity in all matters, purified from all limitations and bondage, clinging to the robe of oneness and detachment. By the grace of God, nothing brings joy to the heart of ?bdu'l-Baha save the unity of the loved ones of God, and the loved ones of the pure ones of God.  AB01365


Then gather them, O my Lord, in the paradise of Thy love and the city of Thy affection. Then erase from their hearts the signs of difference and from their souls the tokens of variation, in such wise that they may remember Thee with one tongue and worship Thee in one form, and become as one soul and one spirit.   BH01698

If agreement and union obtain in a home, there will be upbuilding and prosperity therein; the honor and virtue of that home consists in its unity and harmony. Enlarge this condition, if the inhabitants of a village should be united, how much this unity and agreement will conduce to the happiness of that village.  ABU0448

The world of love requires at all times the mention and praise of the loved ones, especially those saplings that have been nurtured in the shade of mercy, have been raised up, and are sustained by the fresh wine. Such souls should be mentioned by a pure tongue, and a sanctified heart should express love for them.  BH11687

I am completely satisfied with you, especially with the love that exists among those divine friends, for it is the result of the dawning of divine and eternal love among the people of longing. If this spiritual love, essential unity and heartfelt affection is not realized, the tree of being will remain fruitless.  AB01741

O handmaid of God, peace must first be established among individuals, until it leadeth in the end to peace among nations. Wherefore, O ye Baha'is, strive ye with all your might to create, through the power of the Word of God, genuine love, spiritual communion and durable bonds among individuals. This is your task.  AB05295

Today the greatest work is the establishment of unity and love among the friends of God, so that they may become examples for all mankind. The friends of God and the handmaidens of the Merciful must endeavor to unite all the world, for if they themselves are not united, how can they be the means of uniting others?   AB12200

If you are sincere in your love for me, the love and serve the believers of God. My remedy is to hear that the believers love each other. Let everyone speak to me about love and I will love him more. How my heart leaps with joy when I hear the friends love each other, always overlooking one another's small mistakes.  ABU1966

The letter you wrote dated August 13, 1906 was received and its reading brought joy, for it indicated the unity and oneness of the western friends, as praise be to God, through the signing of those two letters, all achieved a fresh love and unity. I beseech God that day by day you may increase this unity and harmony.   AB05190

"The more that unity, detachment and heartfelt bonds of love increase, the more it brings joy to soul and conscience. The divine friends must today resist the forces of the world with all their spiritual powers. And this resistance cannot be achieved without the manifestation of essential unity and true spirituality."  AB00795

What ye have written was considered. I thank the Lord that the friends in that region are faithful to the Covenant and are delighted with the light of the shining star and are free from discord and schism. Soon the Lord will confirm them with hosts of the Concourse on High and will assist them with the Angels of Heaven.  AB02011

This is the foundation of the religion of God, and if this is not firmly established, ultimately the entire structure will completely collapse and all souls will fall into manifest loss...the lack of unity among the Hands and the absence of fellowship among the friends with one another has become an obstacle and barrier.  AB04188

Thy letter was received. It was a clear proof of the unity and oneness of the divine friends. This news brought joy and delight. I beseech the divine favors that this unity and oneness may increase day by day, and that not a single soul may remain unless they enter this circle of oneness with the utmost love and kindness.  AB09301

When the life-giving fragrance of unity, harmony, fellowship and love from the friends in Khurasan reached the nostrils of this one secluded at the Threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty, it perfumed the mind and musk-scented the brain. The gathering became redolent with musk and the spiritual assembly became joy-inspiring.  AB01820

The first cause which led to the exaltation of the Blessed Word has been the unity and harmony of the friends. That honored one must hold fast, with both outer and inner tongue, to that which was mentioned, and must cling to unity, which is the greatest cause for the reformation of the world and the refinement of the nations.  BH05236

In truth, if, God forbid, the slightest dust of disagreement clouds the relationship between two of the friends, others must quickly arise and do their utmost to settle the dispute and reestablish love and unity. Even if one or two days pass with an unresolved difference, it will become firmly rooted and animosity will develop.  ABU1078

It does make no difference whatsoever, whether it is a question of paying my own debt or the debt of my friend of friends. People may look upon this subject from a different standpoint but it must make no difference to the Baha'is. We must consider the debt of the believers of God as our own debt. This is the station of unity.   ABU2371

Therefore this page should be considered a musk-perfumed missive, and the fragrance of this prisoner's heartfelt love should be inhaled from it. If a vessel of musk appears, the nostrils of all present become perfumed; likewise I hope this writing will be the cause of joy to all the friends and handmaidens of the Most Merciful.   AB04513

You have no quarrel with anyone and engage in no disputes, and are wholly forbidden from conflict. You are not even content with causing the slightest grief, nor do you undertake to hurt anyone's feelings. All your endeavor is to make hearts glad and joyful, to lead souls to the Beloved, and to render service to the human world.  AB01299

The divine friends must nurture one another and demonstrate the utmost love and kindness. If the loved ones of God do not bear with one another, who can bear? Therefore, all thoughts must be concentrated on this: first, that the divine friends achieve the utmost love and harmony with each other, and then proceed to guide others.  AB05127

that the friends may become united and agreed with one another, establishing oneness in this mortal world in such wise that every stranger may become a friend, every distant one draw near, and every outsider become an intimate. In the world of existence there is no harm greater than discord, and no good more beloved than concord.   AB04886

Your success is conditional upon your desire to achieve unity and fellowship among the friends, of your efforts to realise the utmost harmony and love amongst you. It is dependent upon your attempts to teach the word of God in perfect concord like milk and honey together, so that no trace of estrangement may be detected amongst you.  AB04501

Union and concord between the Friends and the Maidservants of the Merciful, are the causes of extension of God's Kingdom, and receiving the help of the Holy Spirit. [...] If there should be no unity, then the bases of God's religion will fall to pieces. However, it is my hope that you may be of one Spirit, one heart and one opinion.  AB12535


Consider what a difference exists between his country and thine and what a great effect this Bahai spirit hath manifested that an Oriental sacrificeth his life for an Occidental! What attraction, what love, what relationship is this! Blessed are those who are able to arrive at an understanding of the reality of the power of this love!  AB01567

You must establish a bond of unity and agreement among yourselves to such extent that you may love each other. In Persia such a state of love exists among the Baha'is that they are ready to sacrifice their lives for each other, and they have such an ideal communication like unto communication of flowers gathered together in a bouquet.   ABU0670

I beg of God to confirm all of His dearly beloved ones in one opinion, one belief, one movement, one path and one manner. This is that by which the station of the beloved ones will be elevated, the Word of God will be promoted, the fragrances of God will be diffused and the faces of the sincere ones will be illumined in the path of God.   AB02315

If ye be truly united, if ye agree to promote that which is the essential purpose, and to show forth an all-unifying love...ye will discover yourselves to be kings in the dominions of the Kingdom, and attired with the glorious crowns of the invisible Realm, and become the marshals of the army of peace, and princes of the forces of light   AB01151

whenever I hear news of discord between the friends, I get a fever from the intensity of being affected, and whenever I hear news of unity and agreement between the friends, even if I am in difficulty and distress, I become happy. My distress is in this - why should the friends who are themselves reformers of the world fall into discord?   ABU1747

O friends! Today ye must all arise to that which will cause unity and harmony. Every decayed bone is moved by the motion of the Supreme Pen and is enabled to speak through the choice wine of the utterance of the Beloved of all possibility. God willing, may each one be as a spirit for the bodies of the servants and as a light for the lands.  BH00123

Behold that ABDUL-BAHA has written a Tablet specially for the purpose, that should anyone ask about his station, it is ABDUL-BAHA, and no more, that all men may be in unity with each other. There should be no variation. He is always thinking of unity, that all should be one. This is for the sake that there should be harmony among the believers.  ABU1019

Praise be to God, we are gathered together and in every assembly we are like candles, and with one another in utmost fellowship. It is love upon love, night and day in companionship. The friends who travel together are confidants and intimate, embracing and harmonious, night and day occupied with the mention of the Blessed Beauty, in fellowship.   AB00285

Be ye gladly and joyfully united even as the union of water and wine lest ye be tempted to divide and thy strength vanisheth and ye shall fall as the falling of the stars in the abyss of manifold grief and sorrows. My breast is dilated in as much as it hath come to my knowledge that ye have become one in destiny. This indeed is a praiseworthy thing.   AB03531

For at the Threshold of the one true God no act is more meritorious than imparting happiness to the hearts of the friends. Each one of the friends should, most willingly, endeavor to bring happiness, joy and gladness to those with whom he associates. They should withhold neither life nor property, nay rather each should sacrifice his life for the other.  AB07689

When the beauty of this station becomes resplendent in the assemblage of the friends, then unity and concord, harmony, and primal oneness will reveal their faces and beauty, like unto the Countenance of the One Well-Beloved. Say then: O lovers of the All Merciful! This is the time of unity and agreement and this age is the age of oneness and detachment.   AB03912

For some time no sweet fragrance had wafted from that blessed region of Zanjan to the nostrils of the yearning ones, and because of this, sorrow prevailed. Then the promoter of the Word of God and guardian of God's Covenant, Haji Va'iz, hastened to that land. Praise be to God, upon his arrival a new spirit was manifest, some stirring and movement occurred.  AB00514

"First, you must become united and agreed among yourselves. You must be exceedingly kind and loving toward each other, willing to forfeit life in the pathway of another's happiness. You must be ready to sacrifice your possessions in another's behalf. The rich among you must show compassion toward the poor, and the well-to-do must look after those in distress."  ABU0410

Wherefore must the friends of God, with utter sanctity, with one accord, rise up in the spirit, in unity with one another, to such a degree that they will become even as one being and one soul. On such a plane as this, physical bodies play no part, rather doth the spirit take over and rule; and when its power encompasseth all then is spiritual union achieved.   AB01432

From the beginning of the sending forth of the Prophets and the Chosen Ones until the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - counseled all to unity and harmony. In truth, this was the purpose of their sending forth...The cause of the order of the world and the tranquility of nations hath been and ever shall be unity and harmony  BH02395

O ye two kindly brothers! Praise be to God that ye are brothers both in body and soul, kindred spirits born of one father and one mother, and both servants of the All-Glorious Lord. Through the bounty of the Glorious Lord, it is my hope that these two brothers may be equal partners in both this earthly world and the heavenly realm, ever harmonious with one another.  AB08069

My hope is that the friends in Iraq will become like lamps illumined by the dawning light, and I constantly beseech at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty and implore heavenly bounties for those merciful friends, that each may shine like a star from the horizon of sanctity and, like breezes from the source of grace, bestow the spirit of life upon every withered and faded soul.  AB00414

They will be the daysprings of love and the dawning-places of the lights of amity, and will discover the unity of all realities and of illumined souls. They shall hoist the standard of unity and upraise the tent of fellowship. They shall take in their hand the cup of the wine of perfect unity, and, in the assemblage of unity, dance a dance that shall defeat the hosts of disunity.   AB00891

But the remarkable thing to wonder at is namely--that in a gathering like this where the friendship or love which binds people together is not racial, patriotic, family, commercial trade interests or political or egotistic nor any of the interests binding people together but a meeting of people wholly due to Divine Influence severed absolutely from the before mentioned influences.   ABU1387

If the Beloved of the union of the friends, and the harmony of the believers become manifest, the East and West of America shall be perfumed through the sweet fragrances of the Paradise of Abha, the Mashrak-al-Azkar shall be constructed, the outpouring of the Sun of Reality shall descend, the everlasting glory of the friends of God shall become apparent and the heavenly life be attained.  AB08188

Thou hast written that a Minister has asked Mr. Kinny to hold from time to time the Baha'i meetings in his church. This is very acceptable. Peradventure through your effort this Minister will be changed, be attracted to the light of the Kingdom, attain to another state, seek another power and become the minister of the heavenly ministry and a herald to the appearance of the Lord of Hosts.  AB04245

During the days he was a companion and confidant, he was always thinking of you and in utmost supplication to the realm above, he sought bounty and bestowal for you and begged for divine outpourings. I too joined in this aim and purpose and made humble entreaties to the Divine Threshold so that eternal grace may descend and from all directions the means of unity and oneness may be provided.  AB03510

But you must show the utmost love and kindness and truthfulness and faithfulness and goodwill toward all, and sacrifice your life in this path, and be a balm for every wound and a remedy for every ill. Be heavenly water for every thirsty one and celestial food from the Lord of Signs for every hungry one. Be a nurse to every sick one and a safe refuge for everyone afflicted with fear and dread.   AB01381

The second condition: Fellowship and love amongst the believers. The divine friends must be attracted to and enamored of each other and ever be ready and willing to sacrifice their own lives for each other. Should one soul from amongst the believers meet another, it must be as though a thirsty one with parched lips has reached to the fountain of the water of life, or a lover has met his true beloved.   AB00032

When you go to 'Iraq, convey my earnest greetings to each and every one of the divine friends and tell them that I was greatly perturbed and saddened by their differences. Praise be unto God that the news of their unity and peace was received and brought much joy to My heart. At the beginning, I was so grieved that I terminated My correspondence with them, but now I am very pleased and joyful of them.  ABU1078

This is the time of love and unity. This is the moment for the affection of the loved ones of God. The ears of 'Abdu'l-Baha are ever attentively waiting to hear from what clime will come the life-giving fragrances of friendship, reconciliation, unity and harmony among the friends. With utmost longing I await the glad tidings of oneness, unity, sincerity, faithfulness, love and purity from my dear friends.   ABU1490

Therefore, I pray, asking for your confirmation and assistance, that the aid and uplift of BAHA'O'LLAH may reach you, the hosts of the Kingdom of Abha may reinforce you, that the powerful angels of God may assist you. Be assured of the victory; rest assured that you will be confirmed. That which is of essential importance is your unity and agreement. You must be in the utmost state of unity and agreement.   ABU0025

O united souls! The letter you sent is perused and by its contents happiness and joy was produced; for it expressed union and harmony, that all of you have become one in heart, one in thought, and one in purpose. I hope that this union and harmony may increase day by day and produce good results, so that it may become the cause of fragrance and joy and the means of the happiness of the hearts of the friends.   AB05325

The more they strive for harmony the more they will make progress; the more they exert efforts for unity the more they will witness the signs of His divine assistance and providence... O friends of 'Abdu'l-Baha! I adjure you by the sweetness of the Countenance of the Abha Beauty to become as united as the stars of the Pleiades. Uproot all source of dissension among you and raise up the foundations of true harmony.   AB01975

God willing, may they be illumined by the light of unity and manifest perfect harmony. Today the fragrance of unity is most beloved - if it is diffused, it is the helper and the assistant and the hosts of the Truth (glorified be His majesty). In most Tablets these exalted words have flowed from the Supreme Pen. His word, exalted be His grandeur: All must assist God through goodly deeds and spiritual characteristics.  BH00163

Today the most important of all matters has been and shall be unity with the loved ones who have drunk from the holy cup of Baha and have settled upon the crimson ark that saileth upon the Most Holy Sea. Walk ye together in perfect fellowship and unity, for through this unity the mighty Cause of the Lord of creation shall become manifest and the foundations of the tyrannical souls shall be demolished and destroyed.   BH01078

The friends must be even as the arteries in the body of the world. Therefore must all manifest such deeds and character that the whole world may, by reason thereof, be drawn to them and set in motion. A hundred thousand souls be sacrificed for them that act for the sake of God! Where are they who prefer God before themselves and who act in His path that which conduceth to the progress and love of the peoples of the world?  BH00010

Today, the most important affair and the greatest hope is the unity and concord of the Friends. In every city where the Friends are united, spirituality and illumination is manifest and apparent with infinite power and strength; but where there is a lack of the warmth of love, every one becomes withered, cold, unhappy and deprived. Therefore, endeavour ye with all your heart and soul so that union and concord may be increased  AB10285

They will, all of them, become elated from a draught of divine love, and that union of theirs, that connection, will also abide forever. Souls, that is, who will consign their own selves to oblivion, strip from themselves the defects of humankind, and unchain themselves from human bondage, will beyond any doubt be illumined with the heavenly splendours of oneness, and will all attain unto real union in the world that dieth not.  AB02400

You are all met here with one accord, heart drawn to heart, souls overflowing with Divine love, working and longing for the unity of the world. Verily this assembly is a spiritual one! It is like unto a beautiful perfumed garden! On it the Heavenly Sun sheds the golden rays, and the warmth thereof penetrates and gladdens each waiting heart. The love of Christ, which passeth all knowledge, is among you, the Holy Spirit is your help.  ABU1079

In truth, in all existence there is no honey sweeter than the love of the divine friends for one another, especially to the taste of 'Abdu'l-Baha. I swear by the Beauty of Baha and the Spirit of the Exalted One that when it is heard that two friends are, as they should be, one spirit and one heart and one thought and one purpose and one movement, and in the utmost fellowship, the heart is stirred - how much more if all become thus!   AB06990

Today the one overriding need is unity and harmony among the beloved of the Lord, for they should have among them but one heart and soul and should, so far as in them lieth, unitedly withstand the hostility of all the peoples of the world; they must bring to an end the benighted prejudices of all nations and religions and must make known to every member of the human race that all are the leaves of one branch, the fruits of one bough.  AB00175

Today there is no greater service to the Kingdom of God than endeavor in uniting the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful One. By all means strive to lay the foundation of love and harmony among all. Should the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful One unite as they should, they will receive the Heavenly Confirmations as successive as spring rain. They may be so united as to surprise the people, even themselves.  AB07828

Today there is no greater service to the Kingdom of GOD than endeavor in uniting the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful One. By all means, strive to lay the foundation of love and harmony among all. Should the friends of GOD and the maid-servants of the merciful One unite as they should, they will receive the Heavenly Confirmations as successive as spring rain. They may be so united as to surprise the people, even themselves.   AB04808

Therefore there must be divine love and spiritual brotherhood, which are produced by the breaths of the Holy Spirit. Its results are unlimited and eternal, and it never changes. As long as this brotherhood and love exist in a people, their spiritual and physical progress is unlimited. In this brotherhood and love they sacrifice their lives for each other, for this brotherhood and love are coupled with eternal life and know no separation.   ABU1130

O friend! Couldst thou but know with what love and affection I have seized the pen and undertaken to write this missive, thou wouldst leap at once for joy and exclaim with delight: God be praised that I have such a caring and compassionate friend, such a kind companion, who, amidst such sorrows, such endless adversities and afflictions, and such a vortex of tribulations, hath replied with such affection to my letter and called the friends to mind.  AB00005

In short, it is my hope that in front of the effulgence of the Sun of Reality, that Eternal Grace, thou art in the utmost luminosity that shall illumine eternal ages and centuries. What Bounty can be greater than this? What Bestowal can be better than this? It is my hope that thou wilt always raise the melody of Severance and Sanctity, bestowing enjoyment unto the ears of the spiritual concourse in such a way that it may reach the ears of these longing ones.  AB02554

Every soul of the beloved ones must adore the other and withhold not his possession and life from them, and by all means he must endeavor to make that other joyous and happy. But that other (the recipient of such love) must also be disinterested and life-sacrificing. Thus may this Sunrise flood the horizons, this melody gladden and make happy all the people, this divine remedy become the panacea for every disease, this Spirit of Reality become the cause of life for every soul.   AB02141

The essential foundation of the Kingdom is love, and it must be established and promoted with the utmost power among the friends until it becomes the cause of establishing the unity of the human world. And this love between the friends must reach such a degree that they become true servants to each other, dedicating their very existence in service to one another, sacrificing their lives in service to each other, offering their own being as a sacrifice for the existence of others.  AB08065

If the friends and relatives are keeping themselves at a distance from thee, be thou not sad, for God is near to thee. Associate thou, as much as thou canst, with the relatives and strangers; display thou loving kindness; show thou forth the utmost patience and resignation. The more they oppose thee, shower thou upon them the greater justice and equity; the more they show hatred and opposition toward thee, challenge thou them with great truthfulness, friendship and reconciliation.   AB04453

Consider what wonderful love is this that has been established between us through the Power of His Holiness Baha'u'llah! [...] But [we] who were Prisoners for 40 yrs have come here and have found so many heartfelt, cordial friends whose love and affection are lasting and not temporary. Therefore it is made clear to you that this love and amity have been brought into being through an extraordinary power; otherwise it would have been impossible for our hearts to be so cemented together.   ABU1824

Let us all associate with one another with the utmost poverty and selflessness, with evanescence, and radiance of spirit, with meekness and holy humility. Let us endeavour each and everyone to spread the divine fragrances. For the potentiality of the people in these days is extraordinarily high. If there is delay in confirmation it is only because of our negligence and this negligence is due to our weaknesses, our lack of amity and concord. For unity is the most important matter of all.  AB09617

The joy and happiness of the heart of Abdul-Baha depends upon the stability and constancy of the believers. For they must live and act in accord with the divine advices and exhortations and show forth to each other the power of the perfection of love with infinite accord and unity, so that they may become the embodiment of one existence, the waves of one sea, the myrtles of one rose-garden, the rays of one sun, the stars of one horizon, the fruits of one tree and the birds of one meadow.  AB00351

"Likewise, the greatest inter-relation and communication exists between the sons of men, without which peace, life and existence is entirely impossible. For a soul independent of all the other souls and without receiving assistance from other sources cannot live for the twinkling of an eye; nay, rather, he will become non-existent and reduced to nothingness; especially among the believers of God between whom material and spiritual communication is developed up to the highest point of perfection."  AB00405

This is the time for unity and harmony, and the season for oneness and unity of word. From all directions, discord brings death and destruction, while concord brings life and salvation. The glory of the Cause of God and the glory of the friends of God lie in unity and wisdom, while the abasement of God's Cause and the degradation of God's loved ones lie in discord and wrongdoing and estrangement. Therefore, as much as you can, increase love and unity so that you may become manifestations of divine mercy.  AB02723

In truth, in that land you and Jinab-i-Samandar must be engaged in the promotion of the Cause of God with perfect fellowship and unity, with such steadfastness that none among the peoples of the world shall be able to prevent it. God willing, I hope that the light of unity may shine forth in that land and all may occupy themselves with the remembrance of God upon the carpet of love, fellowship, affection and unity. The very unity of the friends of God hath been and shall ever be the cause of guiding mankind.   BH01321

The question of co-ordinating and unifying the two Spiritual Assemblies, that of Chicago and of New York, is of the utmost importance, and once a Spiritual Assembly is duly formed in Washington, these two Assemblies should also establish ties of unity with that Assembly. To sum it up, it is the desire of the Lord God that the loved ones of God and the handmaids of the Merciful in the West should come closer together in harmony and unity as day followeth day, and until this is accomplished, the work will never go forward.  AB00998

O ye believers of God! If you wish the joy, happiness and the composure of the spirit and the peace of the conscience of Abdul-Baha, strengthen the bonds of union and harmony amongst yourselves so that all of you may become the waves of one sea, the drops of one river, the flowers of one garden, the links of one cuirass, soaring in the atmosphere and breaking forth into one glad song. Today there is no greater service than union and accord amongst the believers. This is the imperative need! This is the happy consummation.   AB00037

Therefore must the loved ones of God become in the world of existence the mercy of the Lord of the Visible and Invisible and the bounty of the King of the Seen and Unseen. They must not look upon disobedience and rebellion, nor gaze upon oppression and enmity. They must purify their sight and observe humankind as the leaves, blossoms and fruits of the tree of creation. They must ever think of conferring good upon someone, of showing love and care and assistance to another. They must see no enemy nor count any as ill-wishers.  AB00053

My hope is that the friends and handmaidens in America will become united in all matters and never create differences, for discord destroys the divine foundation. If they unite on a matter and it is wrong, it is better than if they differ and are right. For this discord leads to the destruction of the divine foundation, even if one of the two sides is right - yet it causes a thousand wrongs. But if they unite and both sides are wrong, because there is unity, eventually the truth will be revealed and wrong will be transformed to right.   AB01900

Concerning the slight estrangement between Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Mehdi and certain friends which you had written about, these matters were incidental and assuredly, through the lofty endeavors of that loving friend, those clouds have been dispelled and the light of unity and love now shines forth. Today the greatest of all matters is the fellowship and amity of the friends. Assuredly strive with the utmost effort that the chalice of sincere fellowship and love may be passed around in the gathering of the friends, so that all may become intoxicated with this wine.  AB06863

We beseech God to preserve the friends of that land from discord, for the harm of discord is beyond reckoning. Although in most divine Tablets the command of love and unity hath been revealed and sent down from the Supreme Pen, nevertheless in some lands they have clung to vain imaginings and have become the cause of discord. However, it is hoped that the friends of that land will be engaged in the remembrance of the Lord of creation with the utmost love and unity, all gazing unto the supreme horizon and acting in accordance with that which hath been revealed in the Tablets   BH01521

"You must all do your best to increase love among the friends, that really and sincerely the friends may all love one another-so that faith in the kingdom may give forth good results, because life in this world depends upon love. The illumination of the world of man depends upon love; the splendour of God depends upon love; tranquillity of heart and soul both depend upon love. Anything besides that is personified imagination. If a friend arrives from another city or state, friends must show him the utmost love so that he may be pleased with coming to the city and meeting the friends."  ABU0720

O chosen ones of God, be steadfast in the Cause of your Lord, the All-Merciful, in such wise that the winds of trials shall not move you, and be ye of those who are firmly rooted in God's Cause. Gather ye in the assemblies of fellowship and remember this Prisoner Who hath been afflicted amidst the hypocrites. Gather ye around that Name. Beware lest ye be scattered, for the wolves lurk behind you with great cunning. Be ye united amongst yourselves, for through unity shall the Cause of your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing, be made manifest, if ye be of those who are endowed with insight.   BH00457

Discord is an axe at the root of the foundation of God's manifest religion and destroys the foundation of the divine edifice. This Most Great Cause is founded upon the unity and concord of the people of all regions, and is purely for the harmony and unity of the manifestations of radiance. Today, which is the glorious century and the mighty age of the Sovereign of existence, should in all aspects show pride and glory over all ages and centuries. The foundation must be laid today, therefore the loved ones of God must appear in such a garment that even a sharp sword cannot separate or prevent them.  AB11165

You had written that the friends in Tehran are, praise be to God, all at peace. This is due to the blessedness of the divine teachings, for while all peoples and nations today are in utmost distress, trouble and confusion, the friends of God in both East and West are in perfect peace, tranquility and goodwill toward humanity. Previously, all peoples rested in beds of comfort and security while the friends of God had not a moment's peace from the oppression of tyrants and oppressors. Now, through the assistance and favor of the Blessed Beauty, the friends are in peace and security while other peoples are in confusion.  AB02152

The great mass of humanity does not exercise real love and fellowship. The elect of humanity are those who live together in love and unity. They are preferable before God because the divine attributes are already manifest in them. The supreme love and unity is witnessed in the divine Manifestations. Among Them unity is indissoluble, changeless, eternal and everlasting. Each One is expressive and representative of all. If we deny One of the Manifestations of God, we deny all. To inflict persecution upon One is to persecute the Others. In all degrees of existence each One praises and sanctifies the Others. Each of Them holds to the solidarity of mankind and promotes the unity of human hearts. Next to the divine Manifestations come the believers whose characteristics are agreement, fellowship and love. The Baha'i friends in Persia attained such a brotherhood and love that it really became a hindrance in the conduct of material affairs. Each one into whatever house of the friends he went considered himself the owner of the house, so to speak. There was no duality but complete mutuality of interests and love. The visiting friend would have no hesitation in opening the provision box and taking out enough food for his needs. They wore each other's clothes as their own when necessary. If in need of a hat or cloak, they would take and use it. The owner of the clothing would be thankful and grateful that the garment had gone. When he returned home, he would perhaps be told, "So and so was here and took away your coat." He would reply, "Praise be to God! I am so grateful to him. Praise be to God! I am so thankful I have been given this opportunity of showing my love for him." To such an extreme degree this love and fellowship expressed itself that Baha'u'llah commanded that no one should take possession of another's belongings unless presented with them. The intention is to show to what an extent unity and love prevailed among the Baha'i friends in the East.  ABU0204

When news of discord among the friends reaches me, I become infinitely saddened, for we are sacrificing our lives for the realization of unity and oneness in the world of humanity. Consider then how grieved we become when news of discord among the friends reaches us, and how boundless joy and delight is attained when glad tidings arrive of the unity and harmony of the friends of God and the handmaidens of the Merciful, that the assemblies are in perfect unity and accord. The purpose is that you must strive with all your power so that the utmost oneness, connection, unity, love and affinity may be established among the hearts, that the confirmations of the Holy Spirit may encompass you and the sweet fragrance of the Abha Paradise may be diffused.  AB04858

O Lord! Bring about unity among Thy servants  AB01751

O My loved ones, be united in the Cause   BH04081

This I hope that we will eternally be together  ABU2974

cause the hearts of His loved ones to be united  AB11943

We beseech God to assist all to achieve unity and harmony.   BH05592

the light of human unity may shed its rays, and the oneness of the free and the unity of the friends may become manifest   AB05882


All matters must be made the cause of unity and concord, that fellowship and harmony among the friends may increase day by day. Now, this matter of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar must be implemented in a manner that would foster unity and concord among the friends, that is to say, you should engage in discussions in a spirit of unity, and thereafter arrange your plans.  AB11874

Be as brothers seated on thrones, facing one another.   BH03270


Therefore, O friends, come let us clasp hands with one another   AB03923


Unite us, make us in agreement, that we may embrace one another   AB11970

Then unite ye in the Cause of your Master and associate with one another in spirit and fragrance.   BH07040


Let us be united and love one another and await the result. If we see that unity brings Light we shall continue it.  ABU2033

Through association and fellowship with you, each one will attain, like a meadow from the companionship of dewdrops, an indescribable freshness and grace. All will smile like goblets and weep like wine-flasks, become like blossoming flowers and, like nightingales, harmonize in song and melody.  AB12840

