My love is the religion of the righteous.  BH02011

Today the greatest of all things is attraction, so that one may be enabled to engage in servitude at the Divine Threshold with perfect willingness and joy - meaning that the heart becomes attracted to that realm, detachment from the world is achieved, and attachment to the Supreme Concourse is realized.   AB00301


The purpose of a tree is to produce fruit. Man is like a tree. His fruit should be Love.   ABU2768

the foundation of Baha'u'llah is love.   ABU1888

The abundancies of God are, to love each other  ABU1225

Divine friendship represents the highest degree of love  AB10495

As long as the heart is not illumined with the Light of Love, it is impossible for man to progress.   ABU2256

Whatever is done in love is never any trouble, and--there is always time.  ABU3620

we defeat them through the Power of love! That is our only weapon.   ABU2039

The most beautiful pentagram comprises: Love, work, prayer, peace and joy   ABU3621

Man is like a tree. The tree lives to produce fruit. The fruit of man is love.  ABU2911

"Another of the godly tables is His love, which is the cause of Eternal Life."  ABU2192

"In the world of existence there is no more powerful magnet than the magnet of love."  ABU2297

Praise be to the Goal of the worlds Who created love and through it adorned the world   BH02763

We love all. We love the people with heart and soul and not only by mere word of mouth.   ABU1738

When love enters the heart the bitter water becomes sweet; disagreeable water becomes agreeable.  ABU1792

In this divine cycle and merciful manifestation, the very foundation of God's Faith is love and kindliness   AB05855

Through the manifestation of Love God created Man. To attain a supreme station man must reflect the Love of God.  ABU1872

The most important of all intentions is to spread the love of God, to establish harmony and oneness among the people.  ABU2593

This is the home of Love, those who come in must learn the lessons of love, thus they may know how to love each other.  ABU1719

Blessed is the soul who reclines upon his couch while his heart is illumined with love for all the peoples of the world.   BH11502

Love is the secret of God's holy Dispensation, the manifestation of the All-Merciful, the fountain of spiritual outpourings.  AB01214

the first bounty from the True One is love, unity and harmony, and without these all the deeds pass in vain and give no result.  AB02614

The reality of Divinity is a supreme mystery that cannot be comprehended, but its manifestation in the world of existence is love.  AB12264

The love of God haloes all created things. Were it not for the love of God, no animate being would exist.  ABU0012

Strive with all your power so that the love of God may become manifest in its intensity like an embodied form  AB12633

When a ray from a longing heart strikes the hearts of the faithful, it creates such a brilliant illumination that it moves the horizons  AB08932

In the world of existence nothing is greater than faithfulness, for it allows love to remain unimpaired in spite of the length of time.  ABU2715

A food that is prepared in love and partaken of in love gives one great delight. Nay, whatever is done with love imparts great delight.  ABU1095

Today, the world-illumining light is the radiance of divine love and the effulgence of the Most Great Peace and the welfare of nations.  AB02150

Love, love, love, love is the attractive force of hearts, love draws souls. The foundation of God's Cause and the purpose of religion is love.  ABU0993

Love is the moving principle of all phenomena. It is the first Divine Grace and its effects are apparent and manifest in all degrees of existence.   AB03299

His love is a ray from the effulgent lights in the Realm of Spirits and is an outpouring of the Ancient Spirit, not the new--it is eternal, not temporal  AB10845

This love which is between us is for the sake of God. We love each other for His sake, and we are kind to each other for His sake. There is no other cause.  ABU1658

Likewise, pure love has a true center, and that center has now appeared in this world and the lights of love are shining forth from that center to all horizons.  AB07528

Unity is love. It cannot be established without love. Therefore try, as far as possible, to be filled with love. Love is perpetual life, the most perfect vitality.   ABU1409

that which is revealed from the heaven of Will in this Supreme Manifestation is to unite the people in love and friendship toward all.  BH10511

His holiness Christ came for the promulgation of the law of love; all the prophets were sent, all the books were revealed, so that the law of love might be promoted.   ABU2326

In the world of man love is the brightness of the beauty of God. If there be no love, this is the animal's kingdom, for the distinguishing feature of man's world is love.  ABU2926

There are two kinds of love: one is direct love which proceeds from a person to another person; the other is indirect love - that is to love an object for another's sake.  ABU2687

The Greatest Divine Outpouring is the "Love of God." This is the dominant, transcendental Power which rises above all the natural susceptibilities of the world of humanity.  AB04595

Verily the Spirit through which the temple of the contingent world shall be quickened in this time is indeed the founder of peace, the spirit of affinity and the light of love   AB07040

This matter is a matter of love - what a wonderful rider it is and what a wonderful walker! It traverses the globe in a single step and crosses the realm of imagination in an instant.  BH06492

O pearl of the ocean of God's love! Every sea hath its coral, and every shell its pearl. In the ocean of divine love, its pearls are the hearts of true friends and spiritual companions.  AB11171

There are today many people in the world who hate each other heartily but outwardly they express love and friendship. We must do something so that real love may be born in the hearts and strangeness be removed.   ABU1076

When the infinite divine manifestation dawned from the horizon of "He loves them," it kindled the luminous lamps of "they love Him" in hearts, establishing a connection between the Ancient and the contingent  AB00720

Love is the spirit of life unto the adorned body of mankind, the establisher of true civilization in this mortal world, and the shedder of imperishable glory upon every high-aiming race and nation.  AB01214

The Faith of the Blessed Beauty is summoning mankind to safety and love, to amity and peace; it hath raised up its tabernacle on the heights of the earth, and directeth its call to all nations.  AB00104

This trust is the love of the Well-Beloved of the world. There is no grace greater in the world of existence than this love. It is the most mighty sign, the most wondrous bounty to the world of humanity.   AB06182

Hold fast to that which is the cause of unity and friendship. The result of everything should be the Love of God. This is the essential fact of everything, that we should love one another with Godly Love.  ABU2654

There is only one love which is infinite and unlimited and divine, and that is the love which comes with the Breath of the Holy Spirit - the Love of God - which breaks all barriers and sweeps all before it.  ABU0789

If your hearts are turned always towards God, and filled with the love of God, that love will separate them from all other things, that love will be the wall that will come between them and every other desire.   ABU0140

"Thou hast written that the fundamental basis is love. This is the actual truth; the divine splendors are founded on love and the radiance of the Merciful One in the human world produceth heartfelt attractions."  AB02589

This is the Origin of Love, the source of Love, the basis of Love, the quintessence of Love, the ancient Love and the eternal Love. Through one emanation of this Love, the world of existence has come into being.   ABU3084

We return to the subject. When we observe the phenomena of the universe, we realize that the axis around which life revolves is love, while the axis around which death and destruction revolve is animosity and hatred.  ABU0043

Such is the true Baha'i love. Your hearts must be like mirrors brightly polished, which reflect the light of the One sun. This love never changes no matter what its form, because it is from the One Sun - the One Love.  ABU1929

All these uniting powers are ineffective and perishable; the only uniting power which can connect all hearts and last forever is faith in God and love for Him. This is the only enduring power, the one that never perishes.   ABU1866

The beloved of God must be the cause of spreading the Heavenly Love. They must impart spiritual concord; deal with all men in the utmost sincerity and kindness in accord with the commands and exhortations of the Merciful One.  AB09118

The essence of all essences is love, which is likened unto the meat of the nut, while all else is likened unto the shell or outside. Through the providence of the Blessed Perfection our spirits must be full of the love of God.   ABU1181

In the human world, love is the manifestation of divine glory. Without love, the world is an animal world. The distinction of the human world is love. Until love arises between souls, complete rest and happiness will not appear.  ABU1313

The origin of creation is love, inasmuch as love is the greatest of divine effulgences. The reality of divinity has cast an effulgence of love upon all phenomena. Were it not for the divine love, no genesis at all would be possible.  ABU0013

We must love each other perfectly. If we are in such a state, the confirmations of God will reach us. ABU0341

The cause of the creation of all contingent beings has been love, as is referred to in the well-known tradition which says: "I was a Hidden Treasure and I loved to be known, and therefore I created the creation that I might be known."  BH09439

"All union of hearts in this world is brought about by the power of attraction or love. The life of the whole world depends upon it, and when this power of attraction or love is gone, then all is disunion and annihilation then takes place."  ABU0709

Real Love is a spiritual thing. It is an emotion of the soul. From the emotion of the soul an effect is also produced upon the body. Love will cause the heart to burn and the eyes to weep - it will shake the body and render sleepless the mind.   ABU1624

This is that which never changes. Know then that all divine laws in every age and dispensation change and are transformed according to the requirements of the time, except the law of love which forever flows and never changes or is transformed.   BH02949

Love and unity are the needs of the body politic today. Without these there can be no progress or prosperity attained. Therefore, the friends of God must adhere to the power which will create this love and unity in the hearts of the sons of men.  ABU1450

The advent of the prophets and the revelation of the Holy Books is intended to create love between souls and friendship between the inhabitants of the earth. Real love is impossible unless one turn his face towards God and be attracted to His Beauty.   AB03752

The aim of the appearance of all the Manifestations of God, the prophets and the revelation of all the holy books has been to create Love between the hearts. His Holiness Baha'u'llah accepted so much hardships so that love may be created in the hearts.   ABU1717

The world of existence is like a body, and the spirit of this body is the love of God. Were it not for this love, existence would yield no fruit - it would be like a tree without fruit and a lamp without light. It is love that has connected all things together.  AB12289

There must be amongst the believers of God the greatest amount of love. The aim of the appearance of all the Prophets - the Manifestations of the holy, divine verities, the revelations of the holy Scriptures has been for the creation of love in the hearts of men.  ABU2030

In the world of existence there is no power as efficacious and as penetrative as the power of love. Military power coerces and compels men into obedience through unnatural resort to force and violation, but mankind yield happily and willingly to the power of love.   ABU3348

all are intoxicated with the wine of divine love and are drunkards in the wine-house of the love of God, taking in hand the cup of the wine of the knowledge of God and dancing and stamping their feet, raising from heart and soul the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!"   AB00436

The spirit of life is Love, the elective affinity between the component parts of organisms is an effulgence of the Sun of Love, the motion of phenomena is by the gravitating power of Love, and the illumination of the world of humanity is through the electric energy of Love.  AB03586

And the Love of God will attract pure hearts so that they should love one another as Branches grown from the Tree of the Love of God, as His believers who have attached themselves to His Word, baptized with the Holy Spirit which is pouring today from the Kingdom of Holinesses.   AB02473

Love is the light of God among His creation - through it every light appears and the world is illumined by it. It is the cause of creation and its manifestation, as spoken by the Almighty: "I was a hidden treasure and loved to be known, therefore I created creation that I might be known."  BH00324

Love is the one great thing. - It is life - the only life of the spirit.   ABU2655

The Cardinal principle of the religion of God is Love; divine Love causes the promulgation of divine Order; divine Order is no other than the consolidation of all the mighty, beneficial forces of the world of humanity, Justice, Brotherhood, diffusion of reality, the fostering of culture and altruistic philanthropy.   ABU0839

Love in the ocean of grief knows no sorrow. In truth, when love appears, all books are rolled up. Blessed is the soul that is warmed by the heat of love and illumined by its light. BH03637

That which is the highest mission of the religions of this world is the Propagation of the Law of Love, these meetings must bring about Love between the hearts of men.  ABU0081

If God had not filled His Servant with His love, love would never have been realized in this creation... The rays of love having shone from the True One unto the creation, the great signs thereof are imprinted upon clear and luminous hearts, and as these mirror-hearts meet, reflecting this sublime light, love, it becomes manifest from creature to creature.  AB10780

It is through Love that man is attracted toward God. It is Love that establishes communication between the hearts of men. It is Love that confers eternal life. It is Love that bestows unfailing joy. If real Love appears in the heart of man, he will attract all the virtues. Love is the divine power which causes the ascension of man to all the heavenly stations.   ABU2256

That which is most delicious in the world of existence is love. The air of itself is not delicious, neither is water, nor in short, all the elements; but when coupled with love it is most delicious. Love is the best condiment. When Love exists in the heart the slightest gesture proves welcome. When love exists in the heart, even if it be a stripe it is delicious.   ABU0958

The love of God is connected to the love of creation, meaning we must become intimate and close companions with all peoples and nations. We must be kind to friend and stranger alike, and show love and faithfulness to both acquaintance and stranger. AB00160

"Therefore, all the inhabitants of the earth have grown through their attachment to this tree and all are reared and nurtured through the shower of divine mercy. It is self-evident that this teaching is the very spirit of this age. It is life-giving, because through love it animates the people, and it casts alienation utterly aside. It brings all into friendship and unity."  ABU0105

It is love that gives life to the human world, and it is unity that brings about human happiness. However, everything depends on means - until its means are made ready, nothing can be achieved. For example, this lamp necessarily requires that a globe be made ready, oil be made ready, and a wick be made ready, so that it may be lit. We desire that love be established among humanity.  ABU0235

We must look upon every human being we saw as a letter from the Beloved to us. No matter how blotted, blurred, torn or soiled that letter appears to be, nevertheless, you must look upon it with the eye of reality and say to yourself, this is a letter from my Beloved, therefore, because it is from Him, I must love it with that divine love and overlook all its defects--inasmuch as the Beloved wrote it.  ABU2947

Exalted be God, the Sovereign Lord Who hath created love and made it to be the greatest sign and an affliction for all mankind. Every mighty heart is humbled before its sovereignty, and every radiant countenance hath paled before its penetrating power and awesome majesty. Love, verily, is the animator of the world and the attractor of the hearts of men. It is the best of adornments and the dispeller of every affliction.  BH02217

In truth, that wine which the poets have spoken of existed before the grapevine - they spoke the truth and right is on their side, for this wine is the wine of love, and by the testimony of God, exalted be His glory, love was the cause of creation. Not only was there no grape there, but there was not even the father of the grape.  BH01256

What a power is love! It is the most wonderful, the greatest of all living powers. Love gives life to the lifeless. Love lights a flame in the heart that is cold. Love brings hope to the hopeless and gladdens the hearts of the sorrowful. In the world of existence there is indeed no greater power than the power of love. When the heart of man is aglow with the flame of love, he is ready to sacrifice all -- even his life. In the Gospel it is said God is love.   ABU0651

O ye lovers of this wronged one! Cleanse ye your eyes, so that ye behold no man as different from yourselves. See ye no strangers; rather see all men as friends, for love and unity come hard when ye fix your gaze on otherness. And in this new and wondrous age, the Holy Writings say that we must be at one with every people; that we must see neither harshness nor injustice, neither malevolence, nor hostility, nor hate, but rather turn our eyes toward the heaven of ancient glory.   AB00128

These are the days of service; this is the time to burn with the love of God. The revelation of the Eternal mystery and its great wisdom and the grace of the Most Great Name and its blessed fruit require that the loved ones should be distinguished among all others in this new Cycle by their fellowship, their unity and their attraction and should be characterised in particular by their application in deeds of the instructions of that Ancient Beloved in this glorious Dispensation. Those instructions are none other than the strengthening of the sincere bonds of friendship amongst all God's creatures.  AB02335

And now, O beloved of my heart, the words composed of the letters of the Book of love for the Lord of the worlds and the Goal of all nations have left their effect upon all limbs, members and pillars - an effect of which it is said that it enters with milk and departs with the soul. How wondrous is this most great mystery of love! Though a thousand volumes be written about it, it would still appear deficient. It is the first adornment and the cause and reason for the continuation of existence. In one station it bestows life and grants spirit, in another it makes one utterly evanescent, and in yet another it confers an enduring, eternal power.   BH01088

Love is to become wholly effaced in the Beloved, To slay the base self in His path; Love is to be of one heart with the Beloved, To be as a bird with severed throat in His path; Love is conformity with love itself and naught else; Never can love and desire be joined together; Love makes the lover so patient That it uproots all desire from his heart; Love makes the lover so discerning That he can pierce the darkness with his sight; Love makes the lover so truthful That his radiance illumines all the world; Love forsakes all pleasures, And strips the self of all its passions; Love cannot endure without its Object for a moment; It sets the world ablaze with its burning  BH01380

"O friends! The purpose of the dawning of the Sun of Truth, the blast of the trumpet, the raising of the call, the endurance of a hundred thousand hardships and trials, the gathering at the place of sacrifice, and the offering of martyrs was this: that this dark world might become illumined, this gloomy realm might become radiant, the plane of earthly existence might become the dawning-place of divine reality, and the face of the earth might become the supreme paradise. Strife and contention might utterly disappear, such that warfare and conflict would become characteristics only of the vile and base. The foundation of hatred might be destroyed, the edifice of cruelty demolished, and the tree of love and faithfulness planted."  AB01272

The message of Rizwan is love, love and still more love, love amongst the believers, love for the strangers, love for the fallen and broken-hearted, love for mankind. If thou hast a universe of love, hunger for more. Live in the world of love, swim in the ocean of love, soar in the atmosphere of love, walk in the bright realm of love, speak the words of love, practice the deeds of love, adore the Beloved of love, sing the soothing lullaby of love and advance toward the palace of love.   ABU1573
