The love of man is essential to the love of God; The love of humanity is a glittering generality without social service   ABU3209

Engage in service to mankind and be motivated by love for the human world. See the stranger as kin and consider others as friends.  AB01469

providing affection towards all the denominations of the world, considering all as thine own kin and growing to be a blessing of the All-Nourisher.  AB12453

Be loving to all peoples with heart and soul, and show true and heartfelt kindness to all parties with perfect sincerity - not mere civility. Become intimate with stranger and friend alike, and the confidant of every destitute and wandering soul  AB01691

O ye loved ones of the Lord! This is the hour when ye must associate with all the earth's peoples in extreme kindliness and love, and be to them the signs and tokens of God's great mercy. Ye must become the very soul of the world, the living spirit in the body of the children of men.   AB00189

Regarding the lack of kindness from the friends - they think that since you have become occupied, you no longer pay much attention to them. Therefore you must, contrary to their unkindness, show the utmost kindness - more than before - until they observe that this appointment has caused no change whatsoever in your manners and character.  AB12128

Accordingly, the beloved of GOD must be the cause of (spreading) the Heavenly Love; must impart spiritual concord, deal with all men with the utmost sincerity and kindness in accord with the Commands and Exhortations of the Merciful One, and they must treat ALL with benevolence. They must render devoted service to friends, wish prosperity for enemies, show kindness to the bad-tempered and be affectionate toward the unjust. They must become a salutary water to thirsty ones, a swift healing to sick persons, a remedy to the ailing; comfort the minds of those afflicted with calamities; become the Light of Guidance to the erring, an affectionate guide to the wandering, a seeing eye to the blind, a hearing ear to the deaf, an eternal life to the dead, and an everlasting joy to the dispirited.  AB00687
