Thou hadst expressed the hope to become a letter in the book of love, to discover truth, to love enemies, and to remain steadfast in the Cause of God. AB06889

"know no enemies; imagine no strangers"   AB06848

They must show kindness to all people, even to enemies and ill-wishers   AB02435

For the darkness of oppression cannot resist the light of justice, and the sweetness of love eliminates the bitterness of enmity. Therefore they show love and kindness even to oppressors, tyrants and bloodthirsty ones.  AB00763

I adjure you by the Ancient Beauty not to insult anyone, nor seek to humiliate any soul. Whatever accusations of polytheism, infidelity, atheism, harm, misguidance and evil they may direct at us, whether explicitly, implicitly or by inference, never retaliate. Do not accuse anyone of wrongdoing, and even in self-defense, do not resist or oppose any particular person. Act with the utmost gentleness, love, friendship, goodwill and compassion.  AB00008

Therefore they see no enemies but count enemies as friends. They know no strangers but call others companions. If they witness oppression they consider it transient; if they observe justice they know it enduring. If they become the target of enmity they consider it like a shadow, and if they see love they deem it like the rays of the sun.  AB00763

No matter how much they condemn, slander and denounce you, you meet them with love, mercy, patience and forbearance  AB12455

You must praise and extol those who speak ill of you, and wish well for those who wish you ill. Be kind to those who are bloodthirsty, and deliver the savage from their savagery. Harm no heart and hurt no soul.   AB01435

We are commanded to deal with even our enemies with the utmost love and kindness  AB08844

Christ loved his persecutors. It is possible for us to attain to that degree of love.   ABU2768

merciful toward all mankind, loving even toward enemies, and tender even toward those filled with rancor and hatred. AB08734

Blessed is he who is kind to his enemies, for he shall walk in the footsteps of Christ.   ABU3107

Thou shouldst become well-wishing toward the ill-wisher and faithful toward the oppressor   AB07047

Even show hospitality to wild beasts and birds, and show kindness to enemies and ill-wishers  AB04017

As much as you can, be kind and caring to all people, even enemies, and associate with them.   AB04133

They must make no difference between friend and enemy - they must love each and all as friends   ABU1327

"associate with the hostile ones with spirituality and fragrance. Treat them with grace and kindness"  AB01440

Be a proclaimer of peace and say, 'Now I feel no enmity toward anyone.' Render good to friend and foe alike.   ABU2426

The Blessed Beauty has freed us from all restraints. He teaches that we must be kind to all, even to our enemies.  ABU0195

"deal with the people of great oppression in faithfulness, for as much as this is becoming of the people of Baha'"  AB07023

"With all humility and submission I intercede for them before Thee, even though they shot at me with arrows of hatred"   AB01783

Now we must love our enemies for God's sake and because He has created them; we must love them and not for their own personality.  ABU2687

We should show the utmost love, love from the bottom of our hearts, even to those who hate us, how much more so our close relatives  AB02222

They must be faithful to the traitors and benevolent to the tyrant. They must recognize the enemies as friends, the unknown as known.   AB02658

strive as much as possible to make enemies repent and become friends, that strangers may become companions and foreigners familiar ones  AB12528

Rather, be well-wishers to ill-wishers and become heart and soul friends to enemies. Consider strangers as familiar and others as friends.  AB00549

"Because she was very angry with me, one day I told her: Dost thou know, how much I love thee?... 'I love thee as much as thou hatest me'"   ABU0291

How can we love another whose personality is unpleasant? See how the enemies of Christ persecuted and crucified Him, yet He loved them all.  ABU2911

Were it not contrary to the Law of God, I would have kissed the hand of My would-be murderer, and would cause him to inherit My earthly goods.  BHU0046

Beware not to cause any sorrow to them, not even to injure the feelings of anyone with a word. Do nothing to cause any sorrow within any heart.   ABU0713

They must render devoted service to the friends, wish prosperity for enemies, show kindness to the bad tempered, and be affectionate toward the unjust.  AB09118

Thou seest that Thy sincere servants are well-wishers to all humanity, even unto the enemies, and serve all mankind with pure hearts and sanctified breasts.  AB04621

But the more the tormenting friends shun thee, go thou nearer to them. The more they deride and blame thee, show thou forth the greater love and affection.   AB04071

one of the great teachings of Baha'u'llah not found in previous dispensations, which is the prohibition of cursing enemies and to pray for their forgiveness  ABU3484

Know the stubborn enemy as a loving friend and raise the cruel ignorant to the height of acceptance. That is, cherish enemies as friends and do not seek revenge.  AB01469

But you must, for the sake of God, show consideration and love to souls because of their faith and certitude, even when there is no cause for affection between you.   AB04417

Even if thy loving-kindness maketh him more bitter, manifest thou more kindliness, more tenderness, be more loving and tolerate his annoying and offensive behaviour.  AB11140

The strangers must be instructed in the lesson of neighbourliness; the heedless ones be made aware; the enemies must be loved and the hateful ones be shown kindness.   AB03889

and regard the enemy as a trusted friend - meaning they imagine no enemies and harbor no ill will...even goodwill toward every enemy, kindness toward every hostile one   AB01977

"Become loving friends to enemies and spiritual companions to foes. If struck, show mercy. If wounded, apply a balm. If given deadly poison, give sweet honey in return."  AB01272

What is astonishing is that when some relatives of the martyrs and oppressed were called to testify, they remained silent, withdrew their claims, and arose to intercede.  AB00176

"Baha'u'llah says that if, God forbid, you have an enemy, do not see him as an enemy but see him as a friend. However one should treat a friend, treat the enemy the same way."   ABU0457

Bear all sorrow, for yourselves and to please all hearts, even the hearts of your enemies. Be true to all the different parties or nations and act toward them with faithfulness.   ABU0713

"Among the teachings of Baha'o'llah is one requiring man, under all conditions and circumstances, to be forgiving, to love his enemy and to consider an ill-wisher as a well-wisher."  ABU0105

We pray for such souls and, if possible, we even show them kindness and assistance to the extent possible, for we are commanded to help every stranger and be friendly to every outsider.   AB02060

They should not look at shortcomings and should not be offended by harmful people, but rather should consider enemies as friends and ill-wishers as well-wishers, and treat them accordingly   AB03212

"That is, consider the bitter enemy as a loving friend, and know the fierce opponent as an intimate companion, so that you may show them love and kindness with the utmost joy and fragrance."  AB01353

However, the loved ones of God must become well-wishers to those oppressors and seek pardon and forgiveness for them from God...One must show mercy to such souls and respond to evil with good  AB01321

You should conquer hatred by love. If you meet with kindness him who injures you, you may overcome his stubborn spirit. The love of God will then come to him, and he will become a changed man.  ABU1862

Two mighty deeds were manifested by the friends in that land: first, refraining from retaliation against the oppressors, and second, interceding with the authorities on behalf of their enemies.   BH02299

Then shalt thou see thine enemies as thy friends. Then shalt thou perceive strangers as acquaintances and distant ones as close ones. Thou shalt understand the blind may be those who truly see.   AB03938

"And from these words written in the letter - that they love their enemies, serve those who detest them, and seek mercy for all - how sweet and delightful these words were to this yearning one!"  AB01343

Even if an enemy be an idol-worshipper, they should become shamans, and if an ill-wisher be a black snake, they should become loving charmers. They should not hurt any heart nor cause pain to any soul.   AB01347

Treat ye the sinners, the tyrants and the blood-thirsty enemies as the faithful friends and the confidants of the heart. In truth ye must become the embodiment of benevolence and the expression of grace.  AB09120

to respect even your enemies, to count those who hate you among your friends, to serve your opponents - let alone your loved ones - and to show kindness to bloodthirsty foes - let alone your well-wishers   AB04850

One may allow an enemy into one's house and show them the utmost consideration and respect... But you should show the utmost kindness to enemies - that is, ignorant enemies, not treacherous thieving enemies.   AB01202

They must not just love their friends but should also be kind to their enemies and indeed count them as friends. Since these people have not drunk from the chalice of divine love, they know not [such sentiments].   ABU1817

But if your brother shows cruelty, you show faithfulness, and if he gives hardship and harm, you wish comfort and purity for him and pray for him that perhaps, God willing, he may be guided by the light of guidance.   AB01827

What a beautiful prayer thou hast made, which was of infinite beauty. The prayer was this, "Bless all my relatives and enemies". This prayer emanated from a soul which is spiritual and, God Willing, it will be answered.   AB04643

Yet we only treat with them with love, fellowship and concord and call upon God to shed His grace and mercy upon them. We pray for their pardon and forgiveness for what they have inflicted on the people of understanding.   AB00573

When the Emperor asked about Mary's condition and thoughts, she replied that she had come on behalf of the Christians and that the Christians' plea was for intercession on behalf of Christ's killers and for the comfort of the Jews   ABU2142

Therefore, the divine friends must become familiar with every stranger, faithful friends to outsiders, love their enemies, treat those who show enmity as friends, the oppressor as faithful, and the bloodthirsty as caring companions.   AB00160

But some fellow countrymen may not understand - if they taunt or act unjustly, you must do the opposite. That is, in response to cursing and condemnation, offer praise and commendation. In place of deadly poison, give honey and milk.  AB00914

He commanded us to be well-wishers and kind to all peoples and religions, and to deal with all tribes with the finest virtues - even counting enemies as friends, showing strangers as familiar ones, and considering others as companions.  AB01083

"Resist their fighting with peace and reconciliation, their blows with kindness and perfection and their blame with joy and tranquillity. Do beseech God to direct them to the Path of Salvation and breathe into them the Spirit of Life."  AB00439

They even consider enemies as friends and treat ill-wishers as well-wishers. No tricks, no deception, no dissimulation and no schemes - under the sword they raise the cry of "Ya Baha'ul-Abha" and intercede on behalf of their own killer   AB00572

They treated the enemies with love and affection. O Lord! Make Thou firm their feet in the Straight Way and cause them to enter in Thy Delectable Paradise! Verily they have dealt with the people of oppression with the utmost amity and forgiveness  AB02851

Never look upon the oppressor, but rather keep your gaze fixed upon the counsels and exhortations of the Blessed Beauty, Who says to be well-wishers to the malevolent and become friends to enemies, and strive for their good to the extent possible.  AB11794

Take no offense at strangers and be not grieved by outsiders. They are ignorant - excuse them. They are veiled - remove their veils. Show kindness and practice good conduct. Be gentle and peaceful, and become an intimate companion to every stranger.   AB02788

"We are commanded by Baha'u'llah to assist all the communities without the exclusion of any one. We do not consider their deeds and actions but we never lose sight of God and their wants must be relieved without the distinction of race or religion."   ABU3327

Treat ye the sinners, the tyrants and the blood-thirsty enemies as the faithful friends and the confidants of the heart. In truth ye must become the embodiment of benevolence and the expression of grace. Do not look upon the "worth" and "merit" of the people.  AB09120

Therefore, whoever oppresses and wrongs you, you must certainly show love and faithfulness. If they harm you, show consideration. If they speak ill, praise them. If they denounce you as infidels, honor them. If they curse and condemn you, show utmost kindness.   AB02103

They have loved all humanity, even their most vehement opponents, met every hostile one with acceptance, every hateful one with love, every faithlessness with fidelity, every enmity with loyalty, and have loved their enemies as they would their faithful friends.  AB11322

Let us suppose that if all the people of a city become friends while a small number remain strangers showing utmost enmity and hatred - despite this, the friends must show love and tolerance, exercise the utmost consideration, overlook faults and increase their kindness.   AB02199

Thou must show the utmost love and kindness towards the heedless ones and the oppressors and ask from God forgiveness and pardon for them, for they are ignorant. if they understood, they would not oppress; nay, rather would they arise (to serve the Cause) with faithfulness.   AB00473

If you see faithlessness, show faithfulness. If you become the target of hardship, bestow a gift. If you face reproach, offer greetings and peace. If you witness denial and pride, show humility and meekness. If enemies give poison, give honey. If they become bitter, become sugar.  AB00901

If they draw daggers, you must offer life-giving elixir. If they give deadly poison, you must bestow pure honey. If they permit arrows and spears, you must lavish spirit and fragrance. If they inflict wounds to the heart, you must apply salve and become the remedy of heart and soul.  AB02882

If they oppose you be gentle with them, if they contradict be firm in your faith, if they desert you and flee from before you, seek them out and treat them kindly. Do harm to nobody; pray for all; try to make your light shine in the world and let your banner fly high in the Heavens.   ABU0619

No enmity remains that would require resistance to hostility or retaliation against animosity. Assuredly, a hundred times assuredly, be ye ever manifestations of mercy toward stranger and kin, rich and poor, even toward ill-wishers and those of different faith--be ye well-wishers to all.   AB00200

In return for arrows and swords, we present milk and honey and we heal the deadly poison with the swift healing antidote. Night and day we are in action and exertion, in order to dress the wounds and cure the pain (of the people), to care for the afflicted and comfort even the ill-natured one   AB02383

In any case, O loved ones of God, pay no heed to the oppression and inequity of the ignorant. Counter injustice with justice, and oppression with equity, and respond to bloodthirstiness with kindness. Be well-wishers in the advancement of Iran and Iranians, and strive for universal civilization.   AB00141

"They should pray for these heedless ones that they may be freed from the nature and disposition of savagery, ferocity, wolfishness and recklessness, and seek the path of God and follow the way of guidance. This is the attribute of the spiritual ones and this is the characteristic of the merciful ones."  AB06605

If thou perceivest from any soul the fragrances of God, unloose thy tongue in his glorification and praise, but otherwise remain silent. Nay, should a soul find fault with thee, praise him instead; should he condemn thee, commend him in return; should he commit an iniquity, show forth justice in exchange.  AB12790

In the glorious Gospel it is said: "Love your enemies and be well-wishers to those who wish you ill; respond to oppression and cruelty with love and faithfulness." Now, if there be fairness, it will be observed that this is truly the way and conduct of these wanderers and the character of these free souls.   AB00040

"If they desire war, seek ye peace. If they bring pain, bestow treasure. If they kindle fire, cause it to be extinguished. If they inflict a sting, give honey in return. If they offer poison, mix it with nectar. If they bring pain, give healing. If they show the flame of wrath, display the light of kindness."  AB11822

These martyrs held in their hands rock candy for the express purpose of offering it to the executioner to whom they said: 'Have a sweet taste before offering us the cup of sacrifice.' Thus did they show such kindness to those who hatefully discharged their arrows at them, and used their revolvers and swords against them.   ABU1856

He came into this world to minister and not to be ministered unto. His greatest commandment was, "But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven"   ABU0722

Some, at the moment of being struck by sword and dagger from the oppressor's hand, would cry out "Lord forgive them for they know not what they do," while another would take candy from his pocket and give it to his killer saying "With a sweet mouth spill this crimson blood, that your palate may become like mine - sugar-sweet."   AB01433

'What would you do,' I asked 'if I were to suddenly turn and strike you?' He instantly flared with indignation and strode angrily about the room. After a little I went over and took his arm, saying, 'But you must return good for evil. Whether I honoured you or despised you, you should follow the teachings; now you merely read them.'  ABU1244


Now we must not consider nor recognize these mirrors, which are deprived of every gift, as strangers and foreigners; neither should we speak of or know them as enemies or savages; nay, rather, must we recognize them as the members of our body, showing them love and affection; not as strangers but as associates; not as foreigners but as friends.  AB00308

You must arise to that which you are commanded, which is to maintain calm and composure, and to endure suffering from the oppressors. Place your trust in God and seek refuge in the hem of piety. Move with utmost dignity, that you might become well-wishers to the ill-wishers, respond to faithlessness with faithfulness, and counter enmity with love.  AB03240

Yet one must be forbearing - neither cause despair nor give hope. We have no ill-feeling toward him nor any enmity. We have nothing to do with his affairs - no friendship nor ill-feeling, no aversion nor attraction, no blessing nor affliction. To the extent possible, we have shown and will continue to show consideration to him to a degree that causes no harm.  AB02349

Baha'u'llah has clearly said in His Tablets that if you have an enemy, consider him not as an enemy. Do not simply be long-suffering; nay, rather, love him. Your treatment of him should be that which is becoming to lovers. Do not even say that he is your enemy. Do not see any enemies. Though he be your murderer, see no enemy. Look upon him with the eye of friendship.  ABU0043

Therefore one must show mercy and kindness to the rebellious party, for they have wronged themselves and become defeated, overcome, betrayed and oppressed by their own commanding self. They are oppressed - one must show mercy and compassion, and arise with such faithfulness as to become a balm for the wounds of those helpless ones and a remedy for the pain of those sufferers.  AB00435

Even as His Holiness Christ instructed His disciples "Bless them that curse you; pray for them that despitefully use you."... When the enemies find they are increasing our love, enkindlement and service in the pathway of Baha'o'llah, they will wonder and say, "How is this? Our words have no effect upon them except to make them love us more and give thanks to God for our scourging."   ABU1059

Let them become manifestations of bounty to their enemies and heavenly sustenance to their foes. Let them treat the oppressors with absolute fidelity, become trusted ones to the treacherous, teach truthfulness to the deceitful, transform demons into angels, become healing balm to the bloodthirsty, become centers of hope for the hopeless, and bestow abundant portions upon the deprived.  AB00260

O friends of God! You must do the opposite and act in contrary manner: place a healing salve upon the wounds of the oppressors and become a remedy for the pain of the wrongdoers. Should they offer poison, give them honey in return; should they draw the sword, give them milk and sweetmeats; should they heap scorn, render assistance; should they pronounce a curse, seek for them divine blessings.   AB00222


if a man has acted against me treasonably, if he calls on me, I receive him with such friendship as though he is my most faithful, trusted friend.   ABU1790

That is, the friends must show fairness in the face of oppression, and treat the oppressors with grace. They must show kindness to the cruel ones and forbearance to the bloodthirsty. Though they gave a cup of poison, the friends must give a goblet of honey. Though they loosed a sharp arrow, these must offer an overflowing cup. Though they struck a wound to the heart, these must become a balm to the soul and conscience.   AB01319

In this mighty Cycle and wondrous Age, according to the divine teachings, man must become such a manifestation of virtuous deeds that he regards the enemy as friend, considers the ill-wisher as well-wisher, thinks of strangers as familiar ones and recognizes outsiders as friends - that is, he must treat strangers, outsiders, the treacherous and the oppressive in such a way as others treat their friends and familiar ones and their faithful companions.  AB01427

Should any come to blows with you, seek to be friends with him; should any stab you to the heart, be ye a healing salve unto his sores; should any taunt and mock at you, meet him with love. Should any heap his blame upon you, praise ye him; should he offer you a deadly poison, give him the choicest honey in exchange; and should he threaten your life, grant him a remedy that will heal him evermore. Should he be pain itself, be ye his medicine; should he be thorns, be ye his roses and sweet herbs.  AB00915

According to the divine texts, We are commanded not to look at people but rather to act according to the divine teachings. The divine texts command us to show goodwill and kindness to all people in the world. Indeed, they explicitly state: Be a well-wisher to the malevolent.  AB10729

They must see no enemy and count no one as an ill wisher. They must consider every one on the earth as a friend; regard the stranger as an intimate, and the alien as a companion. They must not be bound by any tie, nay, rather, they should be free from every bond. In this day the one who is favored in the threshold of grandeur is the one who offers the cup of faithfulness and bestows the pearl of gift to the enemies, even to the fallen oppressor, lends a helping hand, and considers every bitter foe as an affectionate friend.  AB00309

Likewise, they must treat with and behave toward all the governments, nations, communities, kings and subjects with the utmost sincerity, trustworthiness, straightforwardness, love and kindness. Even they must make hopeful a bloodthirsty enemy, show sympathy with the utmost faithfulness and honor to the perfidious unjust, know the ill-wisher as the well-wisher and torment not the sinner with reproaches. Should they become the targets of a thousand arrows of persecution, they must challenge it with love and friendship and treat every one with purity of purpose and kindness.  AB00351

Should ye hear cursing, respond with greetings and salutations. Observe how the peoples of the world have surpassed even wild beasts in their competition and rivalry, and what turmoil hath been raised in the plains of Manchuria, where the Yellow Sea hath turned crimson with the blood of the slain. The wailing and lamentation of the fallen and the cries and moaning of the grief-stricken have reached unto the heights of heaven. At least ye should strive to bestow spirit and fragrance upon the world of humanity, and become the cause of friendship, uprightness and eternal love   AB00043

Rather, their faithlessness must be met with faithfulness, and their oppression and transgression must be received with patience and deliberation. If they give poison, give honey in return; if they curse, praise them; if they offer a bitter cup, give them in return a most pure and clear cup of sweet water; if they bite and tear, give them the supreme antidote; if they act tyrannically, behave with justice; if they leave one thirsty, let flow from the fountain of love the sweet water of affection; if they cast one into fire, seek with the utmost consideration their ease and comfort.  AB03855

Count enemies as friends, regard ill-wishers as well-wishers, consider the unfaithful as faithful, think of the ignorant as wise, and deem the savage as intimate companions of heart and soul. That is, treat the sinful, the tyrannical, and the bloodthirsty enemy as you would treat a faithful friend and intimate confidant.  AB00514

the friends of God must regard ill-wishers as well-wishers and count those who are in discord as being in harmony. They must see the distant as near and reckon the remote as close at hand. That is, they must treat enemies in a manner worthy of friends and deal with oppressors in a way befitting faithful companions. They must not look upon the sins, shortcomings, enmity, injustice and oppression of their foes, but rather consider that the Blessed Beauty hath referred to humanity as His most glorious servants, hath declared that mankind is preceded by mercy, and hath commanded all to show love, fellowship, unity, wisdom, faithfulness and kindness to the entire human race without any restrictions.  AB00095

one who suppressed anger and forgave sins and harm, showing kindness to enemies even if they were the most bitter foes   AB06002
