Man is the greatest part of the world of existence  AB05224

"All that has been created is for man who is at the apex of creation"  ABU0725


The purpose of a tree is to produce fruit. Man is like a tree. His fruit should be Love.   ABU2768

for the fruit of the human tree has ever been outer and inner perfections  BH09996

All things were created for man and man for God. Everything is for man.... The world is like a tree; the mineral kingdom is like the root; the vegetable kingdom is like the branches; the animal kingdom is like the blossoms; and man is like unto the fruit. If the gardener did not expect fruit he would never plant trees. In the same way everything is for man.  ABU0667


When we come to the estate of man, we find his kingdom is vested with a divine superiority. Compared to the animal, his perfection or his imperfection is superior. In comparison with man the perfection of a flower is insignificant.  ABU0902

Therefore, all phenomena are the manifestations of God, especially man, who is the greatest sign, because he is the most consummate phenomenon. Man is like a mirror upon which the Sun of Reality, with all its radiance, with all its heat and energy, is reflected and revealed.  ABU0022

Thus man is the noblest of all existing things. Man is in the ultimate degree of materiality and the beginning of spirituality, that is, he is at the end of imperfection and the beginning of perfection. He is at the furthermost degree of darkness and the beginning of the light.  AB00420

God- glorified be His power, magnified be His sovereignty!- the Source of all grace unto mankind and the Educator of all the peoples of the world, hath honoured man with His favours and the perfect loving-kindness of His Lordship by making him the quintessence of all created things and the visible world.  AB04119

Yet contingent being, in its existence and conditions, needs the outpouring from the Necessary Being. Thus the Impenetrable Unseen, transcendent beyond consciousness, has manifested to the realities of things through Names and Attributes. Nothing exists but has its portion of this divine outpouring and merciful manifestation, and there is nothing but glorifies His praise. As for man, he combines all contingent perfections - the mineral body, the vegetable refinement, the animal senses - and beyond these, he possesses divine perfection through grace.  ABU0222

"Each kingdom of creation is endowed with its necessary complement of attributes and powers. The mineral possesses inherent virtues of its own kingdom in the scale of existence. The vegetable possesses the qualities of the mineral plus an augmentative virtue, or power of growth. The animal is endowed with the virtues of both the mineral and vegetable plane plus the power of intellect. The human kingdom is replete with the perfections of all the kingdoms below it with the addition of powers peculiar to man alone. Man is, therefore, superior to all the creatures below him, the loftiest and most glorious being of creation."  ABU0573

Of all things in the world, man is the highest. Compare him with the mineral, the vegetable, and the animal. The vegetable is distinguished from the mineral and is higher than it, because, as well as form and substance, it has the power of growth. The animal has form and substance, as the mineral, and the power of growth, as the vegetable; but, besides these, it has the capacity for sensation, and by this it is distinguished from the mineral and the vegetable. But man, while possessing all the qualities and capacities of these three kingdoms, has besides them a perceiving power by which he may penetrate to the reality of all things.  ABU0927

The world of existence holds the station of one temple, one body; and man in comparison thereto is the spirit of such body. Just as the body, without spirit, is dead; even so the world of the existence minus the presence of man is as dead. Just as the delicacy of the human body-the human virtues, qualifications and the human glory-are due to the human spirit and not due to the human body; likewise, the adornment of this world, the majesty of this world, the freshness and delicacy of this world, the illumination of this world; the happiness of this world (namely, the world of existence) are contingent upon the existence of man. Were man absent in the world, the body of the world would be dead.  ABU0581

Man is...the fruit of the tree of the visible world  AB05224

For the enlightenment of the world dependeth upon the existence of man. If man did not exist in this world, it would have been like a tree without fruit.   AB05176

The phenomena of the world are like unto the tree and man is similar unto the fruit thereof. The tree is planted, reared and watered for the sake of its fruits. If the gardener did not have the fruit as his ultimate object he would not have planted the tree.  ABU1560

If you attain to this supreme goal all the elements of the world of creation will be ready to serve you at your bidding, i.e. they will find their highest attainment in you and through you or, in other words, you will become the fruits of the world of existence... The evolution of the perfect man is a fruit of creation, just as the evolution of the trunk, branches, leaves and blossoms of the tree is the fruit thereof.   ABU1347

