The guidance of God, the bounty of the Kingdom, the life everlasting, the bounty of the Holy Spirit, are special bestowals to man. These are the greatest attainment of the human world. Man is specially chosen to receive good gifts of God. If he be not mindful, then the status of the animal is superior.   ABU1020

The All-loving God created man to radiate the Divine light and to illumine the world by his words, action and life. If he is without virtue he becomes no better than a mere animal, and an animal devoid of intelligence is a vile thing.  ABU0665


We must not look at the worldly condition, but at the truth in it--the divine truth--because if we look only at the outward form of man, how can we distinguish him from the animal, because we find them eating and doing the same things; but when we give attention to the spirit in man, we find it is far different from the animal. When you look at water, salt and sweet, you cannot tell the difference, but when you taste the water, you can distinguish.   ABU1656

The ideal faculties of man, including the capacity for scientific acquisition, are beyond nature's ken. These are powers whereby man is differentiated and distinguished from all other forms of life. This is the bestowal of divine idealism, the crown adorning human heads.  ABU0157

The most important of all intentions is to spread the love of God, to establish harmony and oneness among the people. This is what distinguishes man from animals.  ABU2593

Animals are intense in their sensations, but humans possess penetrating vision.   AB03468

What difference will there be between him and the animals, who are born, live, eat and die!  ABU2851

Man is like the animal in physical structure but otherwise immeasurably separated and superior.  ABU0627

If there be no love, this is the animal's kingdom, for the distinguishing feature of man's world is love.  ABU2926

They say that man is a sign of the All-Merciful and the greatest dawning-place of the bounty of the Lord God.   AB04489

Man is of a station far more exalted, a sovereignty more firm, and a proof more glorious than nature, to which God has given no authority.  AB00102

Is the animal's inability to perceive the existence of human intellect or perfections sufficient grounds on which to reject them as falsehoods?  ABU3717

One's heart must be alive, one's spirit joyful, and one's understanding expansive - otherwise one is like an animal, or even more base than that.  ABU1666

A human being is distinguished from an animal in a number of ways. First of all, he is made in the image of God, in the likeness of the Supernal Light   AB06380

If inability to sense constitutes proof of perfection, the cow must be the greatest philosopher, for she does not realize anything beyond the animal world.   ABU3156

Thus it becomes evident that the natural movements of all beings are compelled movements, and none moves by its own will except animals and especially humans.  AB01029

The distinction which man enjoys above and beyond the station of the animal is due to this paramount virtue. It is a bestowal of God; it is not material; it is divine.  ABU0157

A man can hate more terribly than an animal. Man can be more cruel than an animal, and all the baser qualities or passions are intensified if present in the human family.  ABU2609

What is the distinction between man and animal - wherein lies the difference? It is in reason, knowledge and learning. Ignorant peoples and nations are lower than animals.  ABU0949

Like the animal, man possesses the faculties of the senses, is subject to heat, cold, hunger, thirst, etc.; unlike the animal, man has a rational soul, the human intelligence.  ABU0577

The difference between animal and man is this,- That the animal cannot comprehend the teachings of God. The animal does not progress. But these teachings are specialized for man.  ABU1933

And man, except he is taught by an educator, is absolutely savage, because we distinguish between man and animal by the education which man gets, but of which the animal is bereft.   ABU0272

Man has been and continues to be among the greatest signs of God, and has come from the realm of non-existence into the court of existence for the knowledge and betterment of the world.   BH00920

Material scientists endeavor to show the evolution of the species man from the monkey. The Prophets of God have been occupied in explaining that man has descended from the Divine Spirit.  ABU2804

Though all created things universally reflect the signs of God, it is man alone who hath been distinguished and honored with the glory of divine favors and the gift of universal bounties.  AB05415

And secondly, if the human world were to have only outward perfections and physical comfort as its result, then every flock of birds and every beehive possesses these perfections and results.  ABU2168

Humans outwardly resemble animals - the difference between humans and animals is that humans possess spiritual powers while animals are deprived of them. Humans are aware of God while animals are unaware   ABU0690

And they consider man to be a distinct species of this genus. In any case, man, who is the distinct species, is the manifestation of "Blessed be God, the best of creators" and is the mirror reflecting the Sun of Reality with manifest light  AB05613

Man is distinguished from all created things; nature - all things are its captive. The sun, for all its greatness, is its captive. But man, whose body is so small, God hath created within him a sacred power that can break the laws of nature.   ABU0675

But you, who are human and endowed with recognition, beseech God that in this garden you may be a laughing hundred-petaled rose rather than mere herb, basil and thyme; not a worthless weed but an intoxicated violet; not a bitter, despised chicory.   AB05777

Not everyone who has the form of a human being is worthy of the Most Great Panorama, nor will such a one necessarily be accounted a human being before God. For all who remain bereft of the robe of mystical insight are reckoned as beasts of the field by God.  BH10402

Therefore the happiness of man and the eternal prosperity of the people lie in the Knowledge of God, the Love of God, the virtue of the world of humanity and the ideal perfections. If man obtains this virtue, he is superior to the animals; otherwise he is inferior to them.  ABU0216

Some are of a material inclination, enslaved to the world of nature...they follow the example of other animals which are also enslaved by the world of nature, the only difference being that the natural characteristics of man are slightly more honourable than those of other creatures  AB04410

From this standpoint of knowing the greatest Plato is the cow, and the donkey is an arch philosopher. In the great university of nature, where nothing beyond the pale of sensibilities is classified as knowledge, the animal is a graduate and the human materialist but an under-graduate.  ABU2865

It is only through the display of the spiritual will-power that man is distinguished above the animals. All the sciences and inventions, all the colossal undertakings and great achievements have been brought into being through the exercise of will-power in the properly-directed channels.  ABU0303

Like the animals they walk on the surface of the earth and would not allow their minds to be illumined by the eternal verities of the universe. What they have - though infinitesimally small - pleases and satisfies them. They seek no further and go not beyond the questions of bread and meat.  ABU0863

Man must be distinguished from animal, and man's distinction lies in becoming the cause of the comfort and ease of others. Otherwise, if comfort and benefit are merely personal, all beasts and birds attain to this, nay rather, for man, like unto cattle, physical comfort, pleasure and bounty are impossible.  AB05772

What are the animals' propensities? To eat, drink, wander about and sleep. The thoughts, the minds of the animals are confined to these. They are captives in the bonds of these desires. Man becomes a prisoner and slave to them when his ultimate desire is no higher than his welfare in this world of the senses.   ABU0294

The life of animals is more simple than that of man. Animals have all their needs supplied for them. All the grasses of the meadows are free to them. The birds build their nests in the branching trees and the palaces of kings are no so beautiful. If earthly needs are all then the animals are better supplied than man.  ABU0162

"This signifies that man has the power of being infinitely more degraded than the other three kingdoms and can do more harm. In the lowest of the three, ferocious animals exist, but after all they can only kill one creature at a time, but when man is bent on destruction, he can by his inventions destroy thousands at the same moment."  ABU1314

It is clearly evident that while man possesses powers in common with the animal, he is distinguished from the animal by intellectual attainment, spiritual perception, the acquisition of virtues, capacity to receive the bestowals of Divinity, lordly bounty and emanations of heavenly mercy. This is the adornment of man, his honor and sublimity.  ABU0109

For instance, the spirits of the birds cannot comprehend anything of reality, and cannot realize spiritual things. They cannot think about knowledge. The spirit of the animal can only feel and sense things, but realize nothing about the spiritual. They are simply the results of the combination of the elements, and when they die nothing remains of them.  ABU1316

Man is distinguished above the animals through his reason. The perceptions of man are of two kinds: tangible, or sensible, and reasonable, whereas the animal perceptions are limited to the senses, the tangible only...As to the animal: It is endowed only with sense perception. It is lacking the reasonable perception. It cannot apprehend ideal realities.  ABU0029

When man is under the control of his material nature and his life is not influenced by the heavenly Power nor directed by the moral voice he is worse than a brute... Under such circumstances the animal's actions are excusable because he is not endowed with the intelligent Faculty but man is responsible on account of his superior creation and reasonable powers.  ABU0999

But man, who is the noblest of beings possessed of spirit, moving with will and endowed with reason and intelligence, must therefore excel all created things in every perfection. And if he is deprived of this bounty, he becomes utterly reprehensible and blameworthy, and the worst kind of animal - "these are like cattle, nay, rather they have gone more astray."   AB00146

All the animals do not perceive another world outside the world of matter and nature. In this case, each of them is a philosopher of nature, as they do not sense anything outside of nature. Is this proof of the intelligence of the animal, of its awareness and perception, or is it evidence of the insufficiency of its senses and perception and its lack of apprehension?   ABU0255

Man has a sacred power beyond the confines of the senses. The power of the rational mind is the power of the soul over the senses. This cycle is radiating love and the bestowals of God are descending like unto rain. Man's glory lies in the difference between him and the animals. In Persia a small child who has been taught to think universally can talk with the learned.   ABU0608

Animals have sensations; they have the five physical senses and perceive those things which affect the senses. Man also, like animals, having the five senses, perceives the things which affect them; but, further, he possesses a spiritual power, in its nature original and essential, which encompasses the reality of all things and by which he perceives things which do not affect the senses.  ABU0780

Man is distinguished from all other creations. Man, who is in part animal, possesses all the virtues of the mineral, because he has a body; he possesses the added faculty of the vegetable, growth; he has the virtue of the animal kingdom, sensation; and, above all, he possesses reflective and mental power, by which he understands the reality of things. Perceiving and reflecting upon visible things, he realizes the reality of unknown things.  ABU0667

He has not created material phenomena after His own image and likeness, but He has created man after that image and with potential power to attain that likeness. He has distinguished man above all other created things. All created things except man are captives of nature and the sense world, but in man there has been created an ideal power by which he may perceive intellectual or spiritual realities.   ABU0100

Gracious God! The animal, notwithstanding that it is a captive of nature and nature completely dominateth it, attacheth no importance to colour. For instance, thou dost behold that the black, white, yellow, blue and other coloured pigeons are in utmost harmony with one another. They never give importance to colour. Likewise sheep and the beasts, despite differences in colour, are in utmost love and unity.   AB02243

Man is intelligent, instinctively and consciously intelligent; nature is not. Man is fortified with memory; nature does not possess it. Man is the discoverer of the mysteries of nature; nature is not conscious of those mysteries herself. It is evident, therefore, that man is dual in aspect: as an animal he is subject to nature, but in his spiritual or conscious being he transcends the world of material existence.  ABU0122

Man must always strive to have his spirit overcome his body. When his spirit overcomes his body, the second birth takes place and he becomes freed from imperfections. He becomes filled with virtues. He becomes nearer the Divine and follows the Divine teachings. He becomes like a lighted candle. This is the reality of the subject. But when he is immersed in the world of nature he is like an animal, a fierce animal.  ABU1725

Whilst in reality this condition of life belongs to the animal kingdom - the animals in this world of materialism - and does not know anything other than matter, (nature); therefore if the glorification and worship of nature, as believed by some of our contemporaneous thinkers is a great virtue, then the animal is the most virtuous. The cow is entirely out of touch with the realm of God and is not cognizant of the spiritual life.   ABU0116

For man alone of all the animals is not governed by the conditions in which he finds himself. He has no wings, but he does not submit himself to this fact; he makes wings and conquers the air. He has no fins, but he conquers the sea. He conquers the night by creating for himself light; the cold by making heat; his limited senses by supplementing and extending them. He assails Heaven itself that he may rise to God, his Father and Creator.   ABU1355

Therefore man must strive to acquire the virtues and qualities of the Kingdom in order to attain perfection. Otherwise he remains like the animal. In fact, the animal is nobler, because not being endowed with reason and capacity its lack of spiritual development is excusable. But since man has been given the divine bestowal of the mind he must therefore ever acquire virtues, for without the divine attributes he may become lower than the animal.   ABU0751

Perceiving and reflecting upon visible things, he realizes the reality of unknown things. When a man gazes at the earth he sees it as if it were level, but by his perception he finds that it is a globe. This power of perception can never be found in the animal kingdom; but man by this power can prove that the sun is a center and that the globe and other bodies revolve around it. This power of judgment, possessed only by man, proves his excellence.  ABU0667

Man, in this station, is endowed with the power of speech, but man can comprehend most important things, while animals cannot. It is impossible for an animal to know whether the earth is a sphere or a plane, while man can know. It is impossible for an animal to know that the sun is the center around which the earth rotates, because an animal can only know things which can be seen or felt, but man can also understand what he senses by the intellect.   ABU0960

The station of man is great, very great. God has created man after His own image and likeness. He has endowed him with a mighty power which is capable of discovering the mysteries of phenomena. Through its use man is able to arrive at ideal conclusions instead of being restricted to the mere plane of sense impressions. As he possesses sense endowment in common with the animals, it is evident that he is distinguished above them by his conscious power of penetrating abstract realities.   ABU0572

The animal is bereft of ideality -- that is to say, it is a captive of the world of nature and not in touch with that which lies within and beyond nature; it is without spiritual susceptibilities, deprived of the attractions of consciousness, unconscious of the world of God and incapable of deviating from the law of nature. It is different with man. Man is possessed of the emanations of consciousness; he has perception, ideality and is capable of discovering the mysteries of the universe.  ABU0096

As to the question of humanity's progress to higher degrees, know that souls are like stones and fruits. Precious gems cannot be compared to ordinary stones, and likewise, good fruits cannot be compared to other fruits. The Prophets are like gems that are distinguished in their very essence, while other people are like ordinary stones. Therefore, no matter how much ordinary stones may progress and ascend, they will never reach the station of precious gems, for it is beyond their capacity and potential.  AB04427

"Man is superior to nature and makes nature do his bidding. Man is a sensitive being; nature is without sensation. Man has memory and reason; nature lacks them. Man is nobler than nature. There are powers within him of which nature is devoid. It may be claimed that these powers are from nature itself and that man is a part of nature. In answer to this statement we will say that if nature is the whole and man is a part of that whole, how could it be possible for a part to possess qualities and virtues which are absent in the whole?"  ABU0145

Therefore, wisdom consists of knowledge of the realities of things as they truly are, through experience and realization. Hence God has created man as the sum of all realities. For instance, the degrees of existence are either mineral, vegetable, or animal, and man is the distinguished species that combines the perfections of the mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms. Furthermore, this comprehensiveness is reinforced by the power of spirit, and through this spirit man is distinguished from all other beings and is the noblest of creatures.  ABU0031

But man's ambition should soar above this -- he should ever look higher than himself, ever upward and onward, until through the Mercy of God he may come to the Kingdom of Heaven. Again, there are men whose eyes are only open to physical progress and to the evolution in the world of matter. These men prefer to study the resemblance between their own physical body and that of the ape, rather than to contemplate the glorious affiliation between their spirit and that of God. This is indeed strange, for it is only physically that man resembles the lower creation, with regard to his intellect he is totally unlike it.  ABU0555

Nature is ignorant while man is conscious; nature is heedless, man is rational. Every corruption exists in the world of nature, while human reality is sanctified. In the world of nature there is tyranny, in the human world justice. In the world of nature there is ignorance, in the human world knowledge. In the world of nature there is vice, in the human world purity and righteousness. In the world of nature there is transgression, in the human world equilibrium. In the world of nature exist all vices, and in the human world all virtues. If vices appear in a soul, they spring from the requirements of the world of nature, not from the requirements of the human world.   ABU1170

But on the other hand, take the example of the honey-bee. The bee is an independent, self-sufficient member of the bee-community. In itself, it is the source of supply and demand. It gives the sweet honey and it does not require anything in turn. Similarly the little ant is an individualist and can live and support itself without the assistance of others. From this standpoint the bee and the ant must be then very happy and enjoy all the privileges of greatness, because they are self-satisfied. However, the glory of man is not in these things. Man becomes man through ideal virtues, through the excellence of the world of humanity, through intellectual superiority, through the Knowledge of God and the illumination of his heart! If he is imbued with these qualities, he is man, otherwise he is lower than the animal.  ABU0866

Thus it became clear that the gifts of the natural world have greater manifestation in the animal world. However, although humans may not have a full share and abundant portion of these natural gifts, in the divine world they are the manifestation of endless favors, the niche of the light of reality, the bright mirror of divine beauty, the manifestation of heavenly gifts, the dawning-place of divine lights, and possess a sacred power that encompasses all created things. This is why they discover the realities of things, exercise dominion over nature, bring forth nature's mysteries from the realm of the invisible to the visible, break nature's might, destroy nature's law, disrupt nature's system - sometimes soaring through the air, sometimes racing across the surface of the sea, sometimes riding beneath the sea.   AB00519

If the aim were this physical life only, then this creation would be in vain and men would not have more honor or be nobler than other creatures. The greatest of sensual pleasures, beauty of appearance and freedom are found among the animals. Birds excel all in sensual pleasures, for they build nests on the loftiest branches and breathe the purest air. All seeds and fruit are their property. Limpid streams, charming plains, beautiful fields, verdant hills, green valleys, exquisite gardens and lovely flowers are all for their pleasure and happiness. They have no grief, regrets, aspirations, ambitions, quarrels, contentions, wars or massacres. If the purpose of existence is sensual life and pleasures, then animal and man are equal. Happiness and pleasure are rather the possession of the bird and not those of distressed and sorrowful men.   ABU1611

Know that people in the world are of two kinds - that is, they belong to two groups. One group denies the human spirit and says that man is but a species of animal. Why? Because we see that man and animal share the same powers and senses in common. The simple and individual elements that pervade space combine in countless forms, each giving rise to a different being. Among these are sentient beings endowed with certain powers and senses. The more perfect the combination, the nobler the being. The combination of elements in man's body is more perfect than in any other being, and its elements are combined in perfect equilibrium, thus making it nobler and more perfect. Man has not, they say, any special power or spirit that other animals are bereft of: animals too have sensory perceptions, but man's powers are simply more acute in certain respects.  AB00057

The phenomenal world is entirely subject to the rule and control of natural law. These myriad suns, satellites and heavenly bodies throughout endless space are all captives of nature. They cannot transgress in a single point or particular the fixed laws which govern the physical universe. The sun in its immensity, the ocean in its vastness are incapable of violating these universal laws. All phenomenal beings -- the plants in their kingdom, even the animals with their intelligence -- are nature's subjects and captives. All live within the bounds of natural law, and nature is the ruler of all except man. Man is not the captive of nature, for although according to natural law he is a being of the earth, yet he guides ships over the ocean, flies through the air in airplanes, descends in submarines; therefore, he has overcome natural law and made it subservient to his wishes.  ABU0405
