


But when the Manifestation of God Himself came, He was like a magnifying glass. He not only, like Jesus, received all the Light from the Sun, and gave it back again to the people, but He took the heat also and gave that out. The Blessed Perfection was like a fine glass filled with wine; it was so perfect that no glass could be seen; only the wine shone forth. So the Manifestation was such a fine and perfect vehicle for the Light that only the Spirit of God was noticed.  ABU0299


"Jesus is the Perfect Mirror, in which the Bounties and Perfections of God are reflected."  ABU2479

The lights of His qualities are manifest or reflected in the mirrors of the hearts of His Holy Manifestations.   ABU3242

For Thou, O my God, hast made him the mirror of Thy Self and the one who standeth in the station of Thy oneness.   BB00152

Through this mirror the energy of God was transmitted to the world. The whole disk of the Sun of reality was reflected in him.  ABU2876

A Divine Manifestation is as a mirror reflecting the light of the Sun. The light is the same and yet the mirror is not the Sun.  ABU2108

Rather, the Perfect Man is like a pure mirror in which the Sun of Reality with all its infinite bounties is apparent and visible.   AB01794

Where the ever-widening circle of man's knowledge meets the spiritual world a Manifestation of God is sent to mirror forth His splendour.  ABU3094

They were like mirrors that are turned toward the sun: it is certain that the rays and the effulgence of the sun will be reflected therein.  AB03529

He is the Primal Mirror, the Ancient Light, the Hidden Manifestation, the Perfect Word - the complete revelation and concealment of the King of Oneness.   BH00512

For should a mirror say that the Sun is present in me, it would be evident before the True Sun that it is only Its shadow that the mirror is speaking of.  BB00001

the Manifestation of God, the transparent Mirror, the Clear Channel, the Perfect Man who represents to us all the ideas of "God" that we can clearly grasp   ABU1392

In mirrors, if there is disturbance, agitation and breaking, the reflection of rays becomes disturbed, but in the reality of the sun there is never any change.   AB04395

If a man wishes to know God he must find him in the perfect mirror, Christ or Baha'o'llah. In either of these mirrors he will see reflected the Sun of Divinity.  ABU1729

The universal Manifestation of God is the mirror held before this Sun, and the latter manifests itself therein with all its perfections, attributes, signs and effects.  AB00395

But the pure Mirror, which is the Manifestor of the Sun of Truth and in which the Sun of Truth is manifest in full appearance--that mirror is restricted, not the lights.  AB00448

He is the One Who manifested His attributes and names in a Temple and made him a mirror of His Self and a reflection of His knowledge and power, and named him Muhammad.   BH02431

The words and letters are similar to a mirror, and the Sun of Truth and the Rays of Significances have become manifest and shone forth in these mirrors of words and letters.  AB08447

Christ was like a spotless mirror which was turned towards the Sun of Truth, and the perfections of that Sun, that is, its light and heat, were plainly manifest in that mirror.  AB00316

The focus of the rays of the Sun of Reality was Christ; and from this glorious focus the bounty of God was reflected upon the other mirrors which were the reality of the apostles.  ABU3098

The disc of the sun does not enter in the mirror, nay rather it is stationed in its own station of sublimity. But because the mirror is pure, only a reflection of the sun is seen therein.  AB10785

Christ was the mirror; God was the Sun. The Sun appeared with all its effulgence and splendor in the mirror; that is, the virtues, the perfections and the characteristics of God appeared in Christ.  ABU0089

In mirrors ye observe how they tell of the sun, wherein nothing is seen in the mirrors except what is reflected therein through itself, by itself, that there is no God but I, the Lord of all the worlds.   BB00193

Should a black stone be placed facing the light of the sun, the signs of brilliancy would not appear, but, in the pure mirror, the sun, with all of its attributes and perfections, becomes reflected instantly.  ABU3436

This light may be likened unto a mirror, and as a mirror reflects all that is before it, so this Light shows to the eyes of our spirits all that exists in God's Kingdom and causes the realities of things to be made visible.   ABU0755

They are like mirrors placed before the Sun of Truth, so if they claim that the Sun of Truth is in them, they speak the truth. However, they mean that the signs and light of the Sun of Truth are in them, and not the Sun itself   ABU3134

The very person whom ye mention as being a mirror - and it is evident to anyone possessed of insight that a mirror hath never had, nor shall ever have, any reality of its own, its existence being merely to reflect the rays of the sun  BH00004

The divine lights were reflected from the reality of the Greatest Name. Although this station is far from the minds and understandings, yet its lights are apparent, its rays reflected and its brilliancy manifested throughout the universe.   AB00438


The reality and Essence of Jesus Christ was like the mirror, and the reality and Essence of God is likened unto the Sun. The real sun appeared in the mirror, rose and shone in that mirror - the reality of God has shone in the reality of Jesus Christ.  ABU1760

Every Manifestation has to become as a clear mirror, which reflects the Splendor of the Sun, for only the Splendor of the Rays is imprinted there. The mirror has nothing of itself to give, as the mirror reflects the rays of the sun and is itself nothing.  ABU0356

When you look at mirrors facing the sun that reflect its light, whatever you say about them is permissible since they have nothing of their own, but only while facing the sun. If there is the slightest deviation, it becomes as if it had never been mentioned.   ABU1119

According to the religions and spiritual terminology which is our way of expression a "teacher" is the Center of the divine lights, so we say Christ was a Teacher of men. By the word "Teacher" we mean, the perfect source of universal virtues in the world of humanity.   ABU1498

"These mirrors are the Messengers of God Who tell the story of Divinity, just as the material mirror reflects the light and disc of the outer sun in the skies. In this way the image and effulgence of the Sun of Reality appear in the mirrors of the Manifestations of God."  ABU0030


When the mirror is polished and is turned towards the sun, it can see the sun, that is, the effulgence of its rays, within itself. This doth not mean that the sun hath entered the mirror, for the sun remaineth at the zenith of its sanctity; it neither descendeth nor ascendeth.  AB06283

If we claim that the sun is seen in the mirror, we do not mean that the sun itself has descended from the holy heights of his heaven and entered into the mirror! This is impossible. The Divine Nature is seen in the Manifestations and its Light and Splendor are visible in extreme glory.  ABU0445

Thou art the Mirror wherein naught is seen except God, as I have seen naught in Thee save Him. Thou art the First through Thy Lord's manifestation, and the Last through Thy Lord's concealment, the Outward through Thy Lord's exaltation, and the Inward through Thy Lord's inaccessibility.   BB00248

one must understand It through the Divine Manifestations, for they are like mirrors before the sun. For others, there is only the reflection of Its radiance. For example, the sun shines in a mirror and reflects upon a wall. If the mirror says "I am the sun," it speaks truly and correctly   ABU1833

O ye respected ones! Know that the Prophets are mirrors reflecting the divine bounty and the revelations of the All-Merciful. Within them are impressed brilliant rays from the Sun of Truth, and in them are traced exalted images representing the manifestations of God's most beautiful names.  ABU0222

The Holy verities, the Divine Prophets, are like mirrors, which are in a state of utmost purity and sanctity and polish, and because they are in an attitude facing the Sun of Reality, therefore that Sun of Reality, with its potency, effulgence and heat, is reflected therein, and all its virtues can be visible in the mirror.  ABU0048

The realities of the Prophets, peace be upon them, are not the Essential Reality of Divinity. Rather, the reality of Divinity is like the sun and the realities of the Prophets are like mirrors. The rays and heat of the sun shine and appear in these mirrors, but the sun remains in its own transcendent station - there is neither descent nor incarnation nor entrance. The reality of Divinity has always been and will always be sanctified from embodiment. Thus this matter has become clear and evident to you and no room remains for doubts.  AB00657

His likeness is as the sun - if a number of mirrors face it, His manifestation is seen therein, and if a thousand thousand ones face it, likewise, and above that likewise, and below that likewise, then unto what cannot be numbered, likewise. Thus doth God set forth similitudes that ye may show mercy unto your own selves.  BB00003

The likeness of Him Whom God shall make manifest is as the likeness of the sun, and the likeness of that creation is as the likeness of mirrors. Is the sun multiplied at its rising or its setting? Say: Glory be to God, exalted above such a thing! Likewise, the Manifestation of God is not multiplied, and what has appeared before will appear hereafter.  BB00003

Gaze not upon this Word, except as thou beholdest the sun in the heaven; and see not he who believeth in Him, save as thou lookest at the mirror. For the inmost reality of any one who believeth in the Lord of the seven letters, is derived from one of the Names of God, glorified and exalted be Him, while his outward manifestation is a leaf amongst the leaves of the Tree of Affirmation.  BB00001

These holy Manifestations or Prophets of God are as mirrors which have acquired illumination from the Sun of Truth, but the Sun does not descend from its high zenith and does not effect entrance within the mirror. In truth, this mirror has attained complete polish and purity until the utmost capacity of reflection has been developed in it; therefore, the Sun of Reality with its fullest effulgence and splendor is revealed therein.  ABU0196

The Perfect Man, however, is even as a clear mirror in which the Sun of Truth is revealed and manifested in the fullness of its attributes and perfections. Thus the reality of Christ was a bright and polished mirror of the greatest purity and clarity. The Sun of Truth, the Essence of the Divinity, appeared in that mirror and manifested its light and heat therein, yet it did not descend from the heights of holiness and the heaven of sanctity to reside within it.   AB00713

Second, verses are like mirrors in the station of mirrors, like the reflection of the sun in a mirror. That reflection in the mirror is visible and mentioned in the station of the mirror, yet it hath no relation to the sun in the heaven, nor will it ever have. As thou observest, if infinite mirrors were to face the sun, the reflection of the sun would appear in all of them, yet after they turn away all vanish while the sun remaineth shining and radiant in its place.  BH00004

The realities of the loved ones of God are each a sacred day-spring of bounty unto that Light of Truth, for when the niche partaketh of the Most Mighty Manifestation and Vehicle and turneth unto Him, the result is Light upon Light, complete delight and joy and ceaseless thankfulness. And when the power of the radiance of its light, the crystal purity of the lamp and the spotlessness of the niche are in harmony, the true mystery of the blessed verse will be manifest and apparent.  AB08039

What is the meaning of the father and the son? We say that this fatherhood and sonship are allegorical and symbolical. The Messianic reality is like unto a mirror through which the sun of divinity has become resplendent. If this mirror expresses, The light is in me - it is sincere in its claim, therefore Jesus was truthful when he said The Father is in me. The sun which is in the sky, and the sun in the mirror are one, are they not?  ABU0018

Divine Oneness is proven and He revealeth Himself in the Holy Essences. The sun is one sun but manifesteth itself in different mirrors. If thou lookest into the mirror and seest the manifestation of the sun, thou wilt say, the sun is in the mirror and this sun manifest in the mirror is the same sun of the heavens; although two suns, yet in reality they are one. The sun hath not descended from its high and lofty station, it hath not taken up its abode in this mirror, but hath manifested itself therein.  AB00952

Then Jesus replied that it is said in the Bible to the Holy Prophet of God that they are Gods. And in order to explain this saying the Master gave the illustration of the Sun and the mirrors. If you placed a row of perfectly clear mirrors out of doors when the sun rose, the sun would be reflected in each of them, and that the sun might say with truth to these mirrors, Ye are suns. In this same sense, it is said of the great prophets of God, Ye are Gods, because they reflect the qualities and characteristics of God.  ABU0044

Shouldst thou, however, turn thy gaze unto a Mirror, brilliant, stainless, and pure, wherein the divine Beauty is reflected, therein wilt thou find the Sun shining with Its rays, Its heat, Its disc, Its fair form all entire. For each separate entity possesseth its allotted portion of the solar light and telleth of the Sun, but that Universal Reality in all Its splendour, that stainless Mirror Whose qualities are appropriate to the qualities of the Sun revealed within It -- expresseth in their entirety the attributes of the Source of Glory.   AB00083

Compare Him Whom God shall make manifest, exalted be His glory, to that sun, and liken all creation to mirrors. Then in the mirrors nothing is seen but a single reflection, and likewise in all creation naught is witnessed but a single Manifestation.  BB00005

"Already in the Bayan (Book of Laws of the Bab) the nineteen disciples of His Holiness the Bab are named 'mir'atu'llah' (mirrors of God), even more clearly His Holiness the Bab is called the 'Mirror of the Breath (Logos) of God'. Already the Greek philosopher Plotinus said: 'The relationship of the Creator to the creation is and will remain inconceivable', one can best bring it close to human understanding by denoting the Creator as the Sun of light and warmth, and the first creature, Man in His potency, i.e. the Prophet (Nabi), as the Reflection of the Godhead. The true Prophet (Nabi) is also the embodied Voice of God, the earthly Manifestation, the Reflection of the Light of the Creator."   ABU0374

Suppose the mirror represents the prophets, and the Sun represents God, and the Sun's rays the Holy Spirit. The mirror of Adam was dull, for the people of the world were not sufficiently advanced at that time to receive more light than the mirror of Adam sent forth, therefore God reflected the light upon a dull glass. The mirror of Moses was much brighter, so that it could receive more of the Sun's rays, and give back to the people a greater brilliancy, for the people of Moses were more advanced than the people of Adam. The mirror of Jesus was entirely clear, so that it received the full Light from the Sun, and was, therefore, the Sun Itself, and this is what Jesus meant when He said I and the Father are one.  ABU0299

Yet the Holy Manifestations of God are even as a looking-glass, burnished and without stain, which gathereth streams of light out of that Sun, and then scattereth the glory over the rest of creation. In that polished surface, the Sun with all Its majesty standeth clearly revealed. Thus, should the mirrored Sun proclaim, 'I am the Sun!' this is but truth; and should It cry, 'I am not the Sun!' this is the truth as well. And although the Day-Star, with all Its glory, Its beauty, Its perfections, be clearly visible in that mirror without stain, still It hath not come down from Its own lofty station in the realms above, It hath not made Its way into the mirror; rather doth It continue to abide, as It will forever, in the supernal heights of Its own holiness.   AB00103
