A gardener would be a bad gardener if he allowed rank and noxious [weeds to grow among] his choice plants and beautiful flowers. He must weed them out and destroy them in order to protect and foster the lives of said plants. It is not that he hates the weeds and wishes them evil but that he cherishes and protects his flowers by removing them.  ABU1043

Now the true Gardener must sow the seed of that same tree in the garden so it may grow anew, develop and become an incomparable sapling, flourishing with utmost freshness, grace and freedom, bestowing upon the world of creation once again its former glory and ancient blessing with utmost delicacy, beauty and sweetness. The wise gardener acts thus, but the ignorant gardener strives to make that old tree grow again, which is impossible and unattainable.   AB00200

"The principles of the Baha'i Cause are the pure seeds which we are sowing in the fertile ground. Unquestionably many harvests shall be gathered. Daily these seeds are sprouting, growing in size and verdancy and soon they will reach the stage of fruition."  ABU0836

See in the winter how bare and lifeless the trees and plants seem, without leaves and without fruit. Suppose one should pass by at this time who knew nothing of the condition of the earth and saw a man ploughing it up and casting grain in the furrow. Would he not say, "How foolish this man is. He is troubling himself for no result, working for no purpose and wasting that which would give him food"? But in due time the showers descend upon the earth, the sun shines, the breezes blow and we see the result in great beauty and production.   ABU0893

All the Prophets and chosen ones were commanded by God, exalted be His glory, to water the trees of human existence with the living waters of refinement and wisdom, that there might appear from all that which God hath deposited within man.   BH02374

there is a Garden of God. Human beings are trees growing therein. The Gardener is Our Father. When He sees a little tree in a place too small for her development, He prepares a suitable and more beautiful place, where she may grow and bear fruit. Then He transplants that little tree. The other trees marvel, saying: 'This is a lovely little tree. For what reason does the Gardener uproot it?' The Divine Gardener, alone, knows the reason. ABU2374

yet we are saplings of Thy garden and Thou art the Gardener   AB07375

Every gardener tendeth the trees he hath planted in his garden   BH06458

I ask God to make thee a growing, developing branch in His vineyard  AB11434

Teaching young children is like unto gardening in the divine gardens.  AB08205

The gardener is pleased with the flower that is diffusing its fragrance.   ABU2541

Since by God's grace you are a sapling planted in this Most Glorious Paradise   AB07224

like fresh saplings planted by the hand of the Divine Gardener they are educated  AB04434

in the presence of the divine Farmer, the seed-sowing cultivator is accepted and near.   AB05170

This is a day whereon the garden was honored by the advent of its Lord, the All-Merciful   BH10669

Therefore strive in order that in the divine vineyard thou mayest become a gardener of Truth   AB06918

If a plant is carefully nurtured by a gardener, it will become good and produce better fruit.   ABU2054

through the education of the divine Gardener, may grow and develop with utmost grace and freshness  AB12256

nurture this tender sapling of the garden of guidance through the education of the Divine Gardener  AB07374

so that the Gardener of Oneness may design flowers of inner meanings in the avenue of your thoughts   AB07455

"In the forest there are numerous trees; but blessed are the trees which are trained by the gardener."  ABU2354

guide the divine sheep in the meadow of truth and feed them from the fragrant flowers of knowledge and wisdom.  AB06225

Teachers are exceedingly important [in the upbringing of children]. They are like gardeners raising a young plant.  ABU2818

Praise be to God that through the confirmation of the true Gardener, fine and desirable saplings have been planted.  BH01248

Through the bounties of God do I cherish this hope that they will become two active gardeners in the vineyard of God   AB07514

in the divine garden you may act as gardeners, offering up your lives, so that the trees may become fresh and graceful  AB07809

The gardener will detect their deficiency and taking them from [the] root will relegate them to the [back] of his barn.  ABU3053

Stand thou firm in the Cause of God like unto a tree firmly rooted, with massive trunk, spreading branches and abundant fruits  AB09718

[entered] under the education of the Holy Shepherd, who hath sacrificed His soul and body, as well as His grades, to His subjects  AB08347

Praise be to God, the Gardener of Providence has engaged in designing the flowers of truth in the avenue of the friends' hearts.   AB04290

The Farmer of Divine Providence has scattered the seeds of reality in the field of existence and watered them with eternal bounty   AB05883

The Ancient Beauty scattered the seed of truth in the field of hearts and entrusted its watering to souls confirmed by the Holy Spirit.   AB07217

The skilled farmer's crops are always blessed - he finds pure and good soil, sows seeds, provides water, and always receives heavenly blessings.  AB03251

The Gardener of Oneness hath designed such flower beds of divine knowledge in the avenues of hearts as to inspire the envy of all possible gardens  AB05373

O peerless saplings of the rose-garden of the love of God! Praise ye God that in these divine gardens ye are trees planted by the hand of providence   AB04627

Thou didst cause growth from the Blessed Tree, and didst nurture with the spring rains of grace, and didst cause to be stirred by the breezes of the Covenant.  AB11013

The friends of God are like unto the husbandmen of this farm and they should, to the utmost of their ability, water its soil from the bountiful well-springs of God's grace  AB07918

If the heart of a gardener is not an artistic garden in itself he will not be able to produce a single flower. His outward garden must be a representative of his inner garden.   ABU2791

I am the divine gardener. I am the heavenly farmer. God commands me to plant trees in the garden of humanity; to sow the seeds of knowledge and wisdom in the field of the hearts.  ABU1678

The wise farmer surely becomes a gleaner and gathers a ready harvest. Therefore one must sow pure seed in the divine field, otherwise at harvest time there will be disappointment.  AB07672

O saplings of the divine garden! The hand of training of the True Educator hath ever been and shall continue to be engaged in training whatsoever hath grown in the paradise of God.   BH09777

human souls are like incomparable saplings that have sprouted from that blessed earth. With the hand of ancient power, those blessed and approved trees were planted in the vineyard   AB11757

O fresh sapling of the garden of the loving-kindness of the Divine Gardener of Oneness! He hath made thee a plant set by the hand of bounty, and the Gardener of Power hath nurtured thee  AB10517

They are the trees planted by the sacred hand of Baha'u'llah in the orchard of the Kingdom. He hath watered you with the rivers of His knowledge and hath protected you from winds and storms.  ABU1523

the son may become like the trees of paradise - a fruitful tree adorned with leaves, blossoms and fruit, appearing in the streams of the Most Glorious Garden with perfect freshness and verdure  AB06109

No greater service can be imagined, in this day, than the education and training of Baha'i children as it ought to be done, inasmuch as this service is like unto gardening in the Divine orchard.  AB04839

whatever the Divine Farmer has planted in the field of being and watered from the spring of mercy grows green and flourishing, becoming the beauty of the rose garden and the freshness of the orchard   AB02646

His Holiness the Christ was the divine gardener. He made this jungle to be a rose garden, these fruitless trees fruitful... This Divine Farmer sowed the earth with seeds; the worthless grass he threw away.  ABU0010

Every soul that enters under the shadow of Baha'u'llah, day by day their capacity increases, like a tree that is under the care of a perfect gardener - it will surely grow and develop and achieve perfect cultivation.  ABU2471

Today whosoever is engaged in the service of the Cause of God he is like a gardener who is planting a tree. Ere long that tree shall grow and develop, giving cool shade to all parts and producing most luscious fruits.  AB08006

I hope that the descendants will bring honor to their ancestors, so that they may water and nurture the sapling that that one ascended unto God planted, until it casts a mighty shade and yields fresh fruits and produce.   AB11714

The Divine Messengers are like gardeners. They are sent that the trees of mankind may be trained and refreshed until they reach their perfect growth, and that, when this is attained, they may bring forth their perfect fruit.  ABU0927

O sapling of the divine garden! I hope that you will ever remain fresh and verdant through the drops of the cloud of grace, and attain endless freshness and delicacy. May you put forth leaves and blossoms and yield desired fruits.  AB07627

"As the potter from his clay makes a vessel to his honour, for general advantage and use, he forms, presses, kneads, pinches, fires, cleanses, cools it (all from the inside and outside), so are we in the workshop of the Creator."   ABU0415

The appearance of the Manifestations of God is like spring - naturally spring does not remain permanent and eternal. Now we hope that again the divine springtime will cause the garden of the world of existence to become fresh and verdant.  ABU2747

The world of mankind is in need of expert gardeners who may convert these forests into delectable rose gardens, may substitute for these barren trees ones that yield fruit, and may replace these useless weeds with roses and fragrant herbs.   AB04669

The kingdom of God is likened unto a garden and the gardener is a blessed Manifestation. The gardener comes and finds the trees unfruitful and the garden in disorder. Through his instructions order is restored and the trees become fruitful.  ABU1555

Also the same way with a garden, it will soon become a thicket unless it has a gardener to care for it; and the trees of a thicket are useless. But when a gardener cares for a thicket the trees will become more useful and bring forth good fruits.   ABU0272

The heart of man is a garden. The real garden is in order, well planted, watered and cultivated. This is not so with the jungle. The jungle gives no evidence of cultivation. Where there is no gardener disorder prevails. Wild growth produces nothing.  ABU2282

As I said before, you must be sure whether the gardener is the True Gardener or not - if he is a true gardener what he does is right. We may see him pull up a tree and cast it aside - or cut off a branch - or pull some of the fruit and throw it away  ABU0297

Skilled gardeners are needed to cultivate this garden, to plant fresh trees, to plant tender flowers, and to arrange delightful flower beds. The gardeners must then become birds, nightingales, and singing canaries, warbling melodiously in this garden.   ABU0695

The divine Gardener has, with the hand of providence, planted you and set you in pure and goodly soil, watered you from the spring of bounty, bestowed upon you the rain of mercy from the cloud of grace, shed upon you radiance and warmth from the Sun of Reality   AB04634

When a divine farmer sows the seed, the crops cannot be immediately gathered in, but it is certain that the seed will develop into a harvest. The seed which His Holiness Christ-May my soul be sacrificed for Him!-sowed, grew into a harvest within three hundred years.  AB01223

These holy Manifestations of God are like gardeners. They till the soil and remove every weed and thorn, but it is in the nature of the earth to bring forth weeds and thorns; if left to itself, there is no doubt that it would become a wilderness instead of a garden.   ABU0954

Teaching in that region is like when a skilled farmer sows pure seed in pure soil. Surely the clouds of the Most Glorious Kingdom will rain down, the heat of the Sun of Reality will cause growth, the breeze of grace will nurture, and magnificent results will be achieved.  AB02753

But if the jungle falls into the hands of a gardener fruitless trees will be grafted by him and become fruitful. Or if the trees have been stunted by neglect, yielding poor fruits, the care of the gardener transforms them, causing them to produce delicate and luscious fruits.  ABU0605

A garden requires graceful trees, wondrous fruits, delicate flowers, divine fragrances, roses and nightingales and hyacinths. Until such a garden is adorned thus, and such trees bear fruit, and such life-giving fruits are cultivated, it will not become a garden or a rose garden.  AB11684

for when the loving Gardener cherishes a plant, He removes it from among other plants and transfers it from a confined space to a vast field and a beautiful, flourishing garden where that plant may grow, extend its branches, unfold its flowers, yield its fruit and spread its shade   AB01991

O thou incomparable plant in the garden of the love of God! Give thanks unto God that thou wert planted in this meadow and were graced from the source of infinite bounty. Thou hast been watered by the rain clouds of the Kingdom and hast flourished at the hand of the divine Gardener.  AB08286

The Kingdom of God is like a flower garden adorned with various sweet-scented flowers, blossoms, herbs and trees. Since they are under the training of one Gardener, are watered from one water, are nurtured by the heat of one sun, receive bounty from one breeze, and grow from one soil   AB00889

"Again, the Lord of the Kingdom is like a gardener. He plants in the garden many flowers of various colors, puts them together like this bunch (referring to one on the table). So we are waiting and expecting to finish this bunch." (After a pause.) "At present the gardener is working."  ABU1706

We therefore sent forth the Mature Cultivator and Wise Physician to cut away, through perfect remedies, the corrupt roots and worthless weeds, and to nurture that earth through the rains of divine commandments, that it might become a place for the growth of goodly plants and fruit-bearing trees.   BH08724

the pure seed which the divine Husbandman has scattered in that field may, through the education of the outpouring of the April rain of the All-Merciful's mercy and the heat of the rays of the Sun of the horizon of inner meanings, sprout forth and become verdant and fresh through the moisture of the dew  AB02499

Dost thou see the farmers furrowing the fields for the sowing of new seeds? Are they not working with tireless exertion? If they do not plough the ground, if they do not sow the seeds, if they do not look after them and pull out the tares and weeds, if they do not water the soil, will they gather any crops? No.  ABU1931

As there is and outward, material reality, so there is also an inward, spiritual reality. Take for example, the sun. Unless we dig and plant a piece of ground, and have a gardener to care for the plants, we can have no garden; we shall have no beautiful flowers or plants, but there will be wild forest instead.   ABU1628

This Gardener hath come in order to make this unfruitful forest a Divine Garden and increase its trees in fruit yield, through Divine training. Before long thou shalt see how this Gardener will engage in adorning the avenues of hearts withe the flowers of Significances, and make the trees full of blossoms and fruits.  AB05742

The heavenly Farmer scattered fresh seed in that soil, and the celestial cloud gave water, and the Sun of Reality bestowed warmth. I hope that this pure seed will soon sprout and form heap upon heap of harvest, and that you will become a skilled farmer in this divine field and be the cause of acquiring bounty and blessing.  AB06746

I hope that you may become baptized with the Fire of the Love of God and the Water of the Holy Spirit, and that each of you may become a Divine Farmer and sow in the farm of humanity the seeds of reality, irrigating them with the Waters of the Teachings of Baha'u'llah, so that the Light of Truth may illumine that country.   AB07458

The Heavenly Farmer hath come, and cleared the ground of thorns and brambles. With the utmost effort and exertion, sustaining tribulations and afflictions, that Heavenly Farmer hath made this ground pure and holy. He hath ploughed the land, and sown it with pure seed; and little by little it hath become green and verdant.   ABU0658

Though we are but worthless plants, yet we belong to Thy garden of roses. Though saplings without leaves and blossoms, yet we are a part of Thine orchard. Nurture this plant then through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy tender mercy and quicken and refresh this sapling through the reviving breath of Thy spiritual springtime.  AB08693

O Lord! Though we are but worthless plants, yet we belong to Thy garden of roses. Though saplings without leaves and blossoms, yet we are a part of Thine orchard. Nurture this plant then through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy tender mercy and quicken and refresh this sapling through the reviving breath of Thy spiritual springtime.  AB08693

Therefore we are expectant and hopeful, watchful and in intense anticipation that this delicate branch, like its noble root, will become fruitful with the utmost freshness and grace, and will gain verdancy and vitality from the life-giving breezes, and will become the ornament and adornament of the divine garden and yield perpetual fruit.   AB04524

When a child is trained in early youth, like a sapling by the stream of knowledge and wisdom, through the care of the Gardener of the garden of unity, drinking from the pure waters of inner meanings, he will surely receive the light of the Sun of Truth, and through its rays and warmth will attain infinite freshness and grace in the garden of existence.  AB01170

They are like unto Gardeners, and the world of humanity is the field of Their cultivation, the wilderness and untrained jungle growth wherein They proceed to labor. They cause the crooked branches to become straightened, the fruitless trees to become fruitful, and gradually transform this great wild, uncultivated field into a beautiful orchard producing wonderful abundance and outcome.   ABU0104

For the divine Gardener's purpose in planting these trees and setting out these peerless saplings in this meadow, and the divine spring's bounty, and the Lord's infinite bestowals, and the shining forth and nurturing of the Sun of Truth, and the blowing of the fertilizing winds of grace and favor from the Beauty of Oneness, is the appearance of fruits and the emergence of sweet and fragrant produce.  AB01122

Through the hand of the Gardener of God, who has appeared in the Orient, to see such a garden as the result of His handiwork in the West -- this is a source of great thanksgiving in the East. Hence I am hopeful, through the favors of that Real Gardener, that He may ever care for these trees, and water them; that He may ever refresh, through His Holy Dewdrops, His flowers; may shower upon them from His clouds of Mercy.   ABU1008

That True Cultivator nurtured and educated these trees that they might yield fruit, not that they become firewood fit only to be burned in the furnace. For this did He educate us. Therefore, should each of us arise to this station, we shall become lofty trees in the Most Glorious Paradise; otherwise, we shall be like wild wood in these forests that grows for a few days without fruit or effect, ultimately becoming fodder for fire.  ABU0832

When the divine farmer ploughs the ground and scatters the seeds, his heart is attached to it. Day and night he is watching his field to see when the seeds push out of the earth. Then he trains them, waters them till they grow, reach to the stage of fruition and his labors of many months is crowned at last with rich a harvest but if he sees the field is barren, the seeds are not germinating, the hard work is wasted he feels sad and despondent.  ABU1433

The Cause of the Blessed Perfection is a garden of infinite beauty and attraction. From amongst the people He elected us and as His tender plants He planted us with His own Holy hand in this divine garden. The rays of His educative sun shone upon us, the showers of the Clouds of His Generosity poured over us, the breezes of His Providence wafted by us;- so that we may grow and develop and send down our roots deeper and deeper into the heart of the earth.   ABU0684

The example of Persia is like unto a garden which has been taken out of the cultivating hand of the gardener. The wild animals have run through its pastures, its meadows are turned upside down, its trees are leafless, its plants are dried and its tender, fragrant flowers trod under foot; to such an extent that whereas formerly it was a rose-garden it has now become a thorny patch. But when the real gardener appears he takes the garden again under his care and arrange it better than its former condition.  ABU1227

Now when a tree is decayed, its trunk rotten, its branches dried up, is it worthy of human intelligence to rest under it, or take shelter beneath it? For example, the Mosaic tree at one time was covered with green branches and leaves. For ages it yielded blossoms and fruits for the healing of the nations; but now that tree having passed through the period of its productivity, its gardeners must devote their time to the irrigation and care of the new Tree which is planted beside the River of Life in the Paradise of Abha.   ABU1089

The world of humanity is like unto the mineral Kingdom an[d] the prophets of God are similar unto the gardeners and farmers. The farmer harrows the ground, clears it from parasites and uproot[s] the thorns and thistles. With much labor and infinite trouble [he] transforms the barren soil into a rosegarden and through care and grafting the fruitless trees of the jungle become the fruitful trees of the orchards. But if the garden is left unto itself, without the constant care of the gardener, it will turn again into the wild jung[le.]  ABU0599

A tree is different in its various states of development, such as when it is nigh unto fruitage, when it comes under the education of the gardener, when a fresh plant, from the very beginning is to be reared and cultured by a skilled gardener, because the latter -- the fresh plant -- can be educated according to the wishes of the gardener, and the gardener can train each branch just as he wishes it to grow. Now, these children are fresh plants which have fallen into the hands of the gardener. Therefore, they will be very well educated; they will become fruitful trees; they will become very blessed trees; they will become most delectable trees. The Gardener is blessed, and the skill of the Gardener will become manifest in them.   ABU1781

Like a gardener I scattered the seed. I hope that those plantations may become rich and green and may give a great harvest, that from day to day it may attain to greater progress.  AB01730

