
He is...the Physician of the hearts and the souls   AB06546

The essential foundation is prophethood and messengership and the appearance of the Manifestations of Oneness, for the body of contingent existence, like the human person, is subject to endless illnesses. When this body becomes afflicted with chronic ailments, the divine Physician appears and the celestial Doctor is sent forth, so that He may heal the body of contingent beings from these severe illnesses and grant true divine health to sanctified souls  AB07365

In this Day the world of being is like a sick person in need of a trustworthy physician; only a true physician can diagnose the ailment and prescribe a speedy remedy. This sickness cannot be healed by either politics or the promotion of liberal ideas because the disease is a moral one and pertains to the conscience; these ills afflict the souls and minds of human beings. We are in need of a remedy that will revive the spirit, educate the conscience, resuscitate the heart, uplift humankind by endowing each and everyone with the perfections of the All-Merciful.  AB01251

For the Spiritual Physician has now entered the visible realm and has diagnosed the cause of all the ailments afflicting the world of humanity, His teachings, counsels and admonitions have shown us the way at last to a speedy recovery and this new and wondrous medication He has prescribed will finally resolve the conflicts and contentions in the world and restore our peace and tranquillity.  AB01251

The Bab - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - expressed agreement with the people of the Furqan (Muslims) in most matters, that He might attract those heedless souls to the direction of awareness. And this agreement was manifested to such an extent that in some instances mention of the four well-known gates flowed from that blessed Pen. However, this Most Great Revelation rent asunder the veils with the finger of power  BH00164

It is possible for a man to hold to a book of medicine and say, "I have no need of a doctor; I will act according to the book; in it every disease is named, all symptoms are explained, the diagnosis of each ailment is completely written out, and a prescription for each malady is furnished; therefore, why do I need a doctor?" This is sheer ignorance. A physician is needed to prescribe. Through his skill the principles of the book are correctly and effectively applied until the patient is restored to health.   ABU0086

They say that the last cure is to burn the malady, as there is no other remedy. This is because the greater the profusion of divine compassion, the deeper are people's neglects; the more protective the grace of God, the more determined is people's rebellion and denial.  ABU1126

Now the message of Baha'Ullah is the medicine of which the world has much need.  ABU2956

O God! We are all sick and Thou art the Kind Physician! Heal our spiritual diseases!  ABU1028

God is the great compassionate Physician who alone has the power to give true healing.  ABU0899

A skilled physician is needed to apply this cure, one who knows when to use these remedies.   ABU2458

"This divine physician has appeared and pointed out the proper remedy for the world's disease"   ABU1763

O ye wounded hearts, the divine Physician has come - a thousand remedies flow from His ruby lips   BH03078

in His hand is the pulse of the world. He healeth it as He pleaseth, and verily He is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH03075

"The remembrance of Him hath ever been the healing of all ills, and His Name shall be the physician for all ailments."  BH08735

Turn your attention to the Most Glorious Beauty, Who is the King of the Kingdom and the Physician of spirits and hearts.  AB05726

Praise be unto Thee for Thou hast guided every thirsty one to the Fountain of Life and every ailing one to the Merciful Physician.  AB09723

Therefore, with the help and favor of the Ancient Beauty, skilled physicians must treat them with the most great universal remedy.   AB06251

The heavenly Physician and divine Doctor has opened wide the doors of the divine hospital, and called the spiritual patients to attend  AB05359

The divine Prophets are the true physicians and the Holy Manifestations of God are the divine healers. They treat the world of being.   ABU2162

Therefore, the believers as the spiritual physicians must diagnose the spiritual sicknesses of the people and then treat it accordingly.   ABU1940

so that thou might become renowned among the spiritual ones in the realm of the Placeless and become a physician of the All-Merciful ones   AB07187

The divine friends must, like skilled physicians with sincere intention, become healers of the afflicted and loving physicians to the sick   AB05370

The Ancient Physician healeth the nations with a sovereign remedy that penetrateth the nerves and veins - a pure, sufficient and healing elixir.  AB06500

The student will come to realize that these principles are as remedies for the sick body of the world and as ointment for its wounds and bruises.   ABU2568

This patient needs a skilled physician...We beseech God that a skilled physician may appear who will be the cause of immediate healing for this patient.  AB03641

They are not willing to abide by the advice of the physician, but are trying to break his prescribed regimen. They fly away from him and refuse to touch his medicine.  ABU1554

For the protection and safety of the people of the world, He made Himself a target for the arrows of tribulations and subjected Himself to the attacks of fierce beasts  ABU2153

Therefore, O weak bodily one, be an antidote for the world and a sweet healing remedy for the pain of the suffering. Be a wise physician for the hospital of the ignorant   AB05841

Those physicians studied medicine in the divine school, therefore they diagnosed chronic diseases of human souls and even deadly illnesses of the world and prescribed treatments.   AB01928

Know ye that in this day He hath appeared at the center of the world as the One circumambulating the Most Great Throne, and account all else as non-existent, extinct and forgotten   BH06739

The skilled physician and expert doctor treats chronic illnesses and cures severe diseases. He applies healing salves to deep wounds and uses superior poultices for crushing blows.   AB04385

You pray that the spiritual health of mankind may be improved daily; for there are many doctors who attend to the physical ailments of the people, but there are very few divine physicians.  ABU2126

The divine Manifestations of God had come for this purpose, that man may be informed of the Kingdom of the Lord of Hosts, that he may know divine realities and may attain to the second birth.  ABU0010

BAHA'O'LLAH is the divine physician who diagnoses the world's malady; for the whole planet is ill and needs the power of a great specialist. BAHA'O'LLAH'S teachings are the health of the world.   ABU0108


So listen to what the Physician say, in order to produce consequences of soundness and health. If all the people knew their remedy, there would be no need of the Physician and everybody could treat himself very skillfully.  AB03067

The Prophets of God are the real Physicians. In whatever age or time They appear They prescribe for human conditions. They know the sicknesses; They discover the hidden sources of disease and indicate the necessary remedy.   ABU0790

The body politic today is greatly in need of a physician. It is similar to a human body afflicted with severe ailments. A doctor diagnoses the case and prescribes treatment. He does not prescribe, however, until he has made the diagnosis.  ABU1450

The Divine Lote-Tree calleth out from the crimson spot, addressing the people of creation, saying: O My chosen ones throughout the lands! Hearken unto My most sweet call and unto My rustling which hath been raised betwixt earth and heaven.   BH01613

The True Physician speaketh: Strive ye to protect humankind from the disease of ignorance and heedlessness through the power of the Lord of Destiny, and heal them through this supreme remedy which is the recognition of the Lord of all peoples.  BH08125


Consider then what power divine medicine and remedy must possess. Assuredly its influence is a hundred thousand times greater and its purification more thorough. Blessed are those souls who purify hearts through divine remedy and spiritual ingredients.  AB08248

Christ was a heavenly Physician. He brought spiritual health and healing into the world. Baha'u'llah is, likewise, a divine Physician. He has revealed prescriptions for removing disease from the body politic and has remedied human conditions by spiritual power.   ABU0086

This ailing world with its weakened body and feeble physique has fallen desperately sick and all its chronic maladies have become inveterate. There is no alternative now but to administer the one supreme panacea to relieve its ills and no other medicine left but the Most Great Elixir.  AB06172

Thou hast found a remedy for every spiritual patient and sought the supreme antidote for every afflicted soul. This antidote and medicine consists of proofs and evidences that provide immediate cure to the spiritually sick and become a divine remedy for those poisoned by deadly venom.   AB05266

The knowing Physician unveiled His face and the skilled, truthful Doctor drew back the curtain...However, ignorant physicians and lazy doctors have intervened and forbidden the instant divine remedies, while freely dispensing that which causes the disease to worsen and the ailment to intensify.   AB02734

Glory be to God! What heedlessness and wrath and anger is this, that the patient flees from the physician and nurse, and the wounded one abhors the balm and healing remedy! These are signs of the Lord's wrath. When the patient seeks remedy from the physician, he finds comfort of soul and attains joy of conscience.  AB08048

If a man is ill, he must have confidence in his doctor. If he be sure that he is a thorough, competent doctor he must do what he orders...The doctor may order something contrary to the patient's ideas and may give him medicine that makes him worse for the time --but, if he wishes to be cured he must follow his instructions  ABU0297

Now, O skilled physician, attend to treating the patients of heart and soul. Become an accomplished doctor - diagnose spiritual illness and provide a remedy for every ailment, apply a salve to every wound, and cure every disease, so that spiritual medicine may bestow divine power and deliver the human world from satanic suggestions  AB03345

The ills of the body must be diagnosed by the skilful physician. The Holy Divine Manifestations are the real Physicians of mankind. The wisest statesmen and thinkers are impotent diagnosticians and fall short in making a scientific diagnosis of the symptoms and character of the manifold diseases which have attacked the body of the world of humanity.  ABU1507

The Prophets are even as physicians engaged in healing the world and its peoples, that through the remedy of unity they may cure the disease of discord. In the doings and prescriptions of the physician there is no room for objection, for he is aware of the constitution of the body and its ailments, and never can the bird of human understanding soar to the height of his knowledge.   BH00779


If a physician describes someone's illness, this is out of kindness so they may be cured... I cannot tell someone with tuberculosis that they are healthy - I want to treat them and this is the utmost kindness, not enmity. Therefore if the loved ones of God are kind to someone, they should want what is best for them and endeavor to counsel them so that the kind physician may treat them and they may be healed.  AB01498

O thou seeker after the Kingdom! Every divine Manifestation is the very life of the world, and the skilled physician of each ailing soul. The world of man is sick, and that competent Physician knoweth the cure, arising as He doth with teachings, counsels and admonishments that are the remedy for every pain, the healing balm to every wound. It is certain that the wise physician can diagnose his patient's needs at any season, and apply the cure.  AB00276

The Prophets of God, the universal Manifestations, are even as skilled physicians; the world of being is as the body of man; and the divine religions are as the treatment and remedy. The physician must be fully aware and informed of all the parts and organs, the constitution and condition of the patient, in order to prescribe an effective remedy. Indeed, it is from the disease itself that the physician deduces the remedy, for he first diagnoses the ailment and then treats its underlying cause. Until the ailment is properly diagnosed, how can any treatment or remedy be prescribed? The physician must therefore have a thorough knowledge of the constitution, the parts, organs and condition of the patient, and be likewise well acquainted with every disease and every remedy, in order to prescribe the appropriate cure.  AB00780

The body of the world can be compared to that of a man and the Prophets and Messengers of God to able physicians. A human being does not remain always in the same condition: different ailments occur and each calls for a specific remedy. Thus an able physician does not treat all ailments in the same manner, but varies the treatments and remedies in accordance with the requirements of these various ailments and conditions. One person may suffer severely from an ailment caused by an excess of heat: the able physician perforce administers cooling medicines. When at another time this person's constitution changes and the heat is supplanted by an excess of cold, the physician of necessity sets aside the cooling medicines and prescribes heating ones. This change and alteration is required by the condition of the patient and is an evident proof of the skill of the physician.   AB00211
