Then we are lead to the thought of the world of humanity, to the ideal flowers and roses that are being produced through the Revelation of Baha'u'llah. Just as this phenomenal sun is the educator of the contingent beings, likewise the Sun of Reality is the Educator of the Ideal principles of life.   ABU2508

Consider the physical world of existence: The solar system would be dark and obscure, but within it the sun is the center of light, and all the planets revolve around it, becoming illumined through its bounties. The sun is the source of life and light, and the cause of the growth and development of all things within the solar system. Without the sun's emanations, no living thing would exist in this system--all would be dark and dispersed. Thus it is clear and evident that the sun is the center of light and the cause of life for all beings in the solar system.... Similarly, the holy Manifestations of God are the centers of the light of Reality, the wellsprings of mysteries and the bounties of love. They shed illumination upon the world of hearts and minds, bestow everlasting grace upon the world of spirits, grant spiritual life, and shine with the light of realities and meanings.  AB00921

Therefore, praise be to God that you have been brought under the education of this One Who is the very Sun of Reality and Who is shining resplendently upon all humankind, endowing all with a life that is everlasting.  ABU0900

Verily I am the Proof of God and His Light   BB00649

O Sun of Reality of the Supreme Concourse!   AB06666

His sun shone forth in the east and orient.  AB03869

That Light of Truth shone upon East and West  AB02115

When that divine Sun of the world shone forth  AB06992

the light of the ascendant Orb of revelation   AB12087

until she visited the sun of Thy manifestation  BH09915

beholding the lights of the Sun of Revelation   BH08121

like the sun rising from the horizon of heaven   BH09751

the guiding lights shining from the Sun of Truth  AB10808

become the dawning-place for the Sun of Reality   AB04912

illumine them with the lights of the Sun of Truth   BH10121

when that Sun rose with the light of manifestation   AB07283

the rays of the Sun of Truth immediately shone forth  AB08329

The Most Great Sea hath appeared in the form of man.   BH07740

When the Sun of Truth dawned from the horizon of Iran  AB06614

drawn illumination from the rays of the Sun of Truth   AB05824

from whose horizon hath shone forth the Sun of Beauty   BH06952

The Sun declares: gaze at my splendor and effulgences.  BH10128

This is why in every age the Sun of Truth shines forth  AB02999

The Sun of Truth dawned and the light of God appeared.  AB10295

the lights of the Sun of Truth are shining in that land  AB03206

that enchanting Face reveal itself like the sun and moon  AB04123

upon beholding the lights of the Daystar of the horizons   AB05545

"the lights of the Sun of Reality shining upon thy sight"  AB02625

the Sun of Reality and the light of guidance shines forth   AB06237

like the rays of the sun from the dawning-place of existence  AB06718

When that rising Sun set and that shining Light disappeared   AB04971

When the Most Great Luminary rose from the horizon of reality  AB06997

the Sun of Truth has set from the horizon of the human temple  AB07279

that Beauty Who shone forth and was concealed behind the veil  AB10120

clear, pure mirrors reflecting the rays of the Sun of Reality   AB06203

and the Sun of Truth hath shone forth from the horizon of glory  AB07520

that shining Moon bestowed illumination upon the world of being  AB04306

It is as if a person wishes to make a sun out of oil and wick.   ABU2837

when the Sun of Revelation dawned from the horizon of the world   BH07264

The Sun radiated forth and the World-illumining Light appeared.   AB05175

The Blessed Beauty caused the appearance of the Sun of Reality.   ABU1738


illumined by the Sun of Beauty after it had risen at the meridian  BH10769

if you seek brilliant rays, fix your heart upon the Sun of Truth   AB05783

I beseech Thee by Thy light which hath shone forth upon the world   BH09381

You have been illumined by the effulgent rays of the Sun of Truth   BH03996

the appearance therein of the Light of Truth in the niche of lights  AB10205

Thus has the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of grace  BH08583

when the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of the world  BH07227

Thus doth command you He Who hath dawned from the horizon of Beauty   BH06565

through the heat of the Sun of Reality reach perfection and fruition  AB08080

Through My command did the sun shine forth from the horizon of heaven   BH08102

The clouds of idle fancies have concealed the rays of the Sun of Truth  BH04503

That Dawn of the unseen Glory, that Countenance beyond doubt has come   BH03078

ye have been illumined by the Sun of Truth, the Light of the Horizons   AB07026

O people! This is the lamp of God - extinguish it not with your desires  BH04303

The Sun of Truth hath no greater guide than its world-encompassing rays  AB08198

that they may behold the Sun of Manifestation and gaze upon its horizon   BH01686

When the Sun of Guidance disappeared behind clouds of might and grandeur  AB06506

Say: Look ye, look ye, for the Sun hath risen from the horizon of proof.   BH06609

one may shine forth like a luminous lamp in the glass of contingent being  AB03735

and through them the Sun has shone forth from a holy and exalted horizon.   BH11260

When the Most Luminous Sun hath set, if a ray ascendeth it hath no effect   AB06922

In this vision the light of the Sun of Reality was reflected to the world.  ABU2876

Be a brilliant lamp, a fruitful tree, a radiant star, and a luminous pearl   AB05403

I swear by the Sun of utterance which shineth from the horizon of the prison  BH08383

Today the Sun of Truth has risen from the horizon of the heaven of grandeur   BH07338

the Sun of Reality, which hath shone forth from the horizon of manifestation  AB07573

To comprehend the Sun of Reality we would have to be greater (than the Sun).  ABU2924

the Sun of Manifestation shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of proof   BH02003

turned toward the horizon from which shone forth the Sun of Thy Manifestation   BH08964

the Dawning-Place, the Manifestation and the Day-Spring of that invisible Sun   BH03201

Jesus was the sun and his rays shone upon his disciples through his teachings.  ABU3098

Thus hath the Sun of Utterance shone forth from the horizon of thy Lord's will   BH06561

Verily He hath shone forth from the horizon of glory like the sun at its zenith   BH04084

the Light from the horizon of Sinai is dawning and shining with infinite radiance  BH10792

Open your eyes, then raise up your heads - verily the Sun shineth at its zenith!   BH05238

that station wherein hath shone forth the Sun of knowledge by the command of God   BH03277

In this Most Great Cycle, when the Sun of Truth hath illumined both East and West  AB06942

when the Sun of Revelation appeared manifest and evident from the horizon of light  BH10003

and the Sun of the Beauty of the Beloved is ever-dawning from the horizon of glory  BH09574

By God, from it hath shone forth the Sun of God's Beauty, the Lord of all worlds.   BH08912

The fame of the greatness of the Sun of Truth has spread throughout the horizons.   AB03798

the heat of the Sun of Truth hath become intense upon the plains, valleys and hills  AB10671

In this mortal world the Sun of eternal Truth hath dawned from the horizon of oneness  AB05264

until the Sun of Truth appears with brilliant rays in the East and West of the earth   AB01633

The Sun of Reality is like unto the physical sun. It will rise and set everlastingly.  ABU1557

that ye may become enraptured in the Sinai of love through the manifestation of Beauty  BH10821

The rays return, for it is the Sun, and the ultimate ascent is this luminous station.   BH10397

that they may become like unto clear mirrors reflecting (the rays) of the Sun of Truth  AB04499

Now is only the emergence of the dawn of the Sun of Truth, His blessed Person told us.  ABU3679

the realm of existence hath been illumined and brightened by the Sun of the Divine Name  BH08643

Today the Sun of Manifestation is shining and the light of His countenance is radiant.   BH05590

upon whom in every moment there shone forth the Sun of Beauty from the horizon of glory   BH10881

from this quarter from whose horizon hath shone forth the Sun of the Beauty of thy Lord   BH06772

hath made manifest the hidden meanings like unto a spiritual sun from the mystic horizon   BH10868

Beware lest ye deny Him through Whom the sun hath shone forth and the moon hath appeared   BH03991

worship a Sun which never sets in the horizon and its rays are the mysteries of phenomena  AB11115

"...this Sun that hath vanished from you, which had been illumined with the light of God."  BH05055

That Manifest Light, like unto a shining candle, was set ablaze in the assemblage of man.   AB06665

the Luminary of the Most Great Name hath risen and shone forth from the horizon of eternity  BH08645

unless the rays of the Sun of Reality shine forth and bestow grace, brilliance and radiance  AB08544

And when, through divine power and might, the Sun of Truth shone forth from behind the veil   BH08747

in this luminous morn when the world is illumined by the effulgent rays of the Sun of Truth   BH07533

thou wouldst melt away with the fire of longing even as snow melteth from the heat of the sun  BH10177

The Manifestation (Baha'o'llah) had all the qualities of the Sun of Truth manifested in him.   ABU2105

Reference to souls being "illumined by the rays shining forth from the star of the Most High"   AB11641

And this is God's sun shining upon you - be illumined thereby, O people of truth and certitude!   BH05350

He was witnessed like the sun from the horizon of the spirit in the holy dawning-place of truth   BH02911

and who, like the loving sun of the supreme heaven, shines forth from the dawning-place of glory  AB10723

Now, through divine grace and bounty, the Sun of Reality hath risen from the horizon of oneness   AB06309

However, the rays of the Sun of Truth have become so brilliant that this darkness cannot endure.  AB11719

Today the Sun of Truth, from the horizon of the prison of 'Akka, speaketh this most sublime Word   BH10249

thou hast recognized the Sun of Truth which hath dawned from the horizon of the heaven of bounty   BH09799

Verily they are the Sun of inner meanings, and by them are nourished the realities of all things   BH02847

The everlasting Candle shineth in its naked glory. Behold how it hath consumed every mortal veil.  BH02198

the morn of guidance will shine so brightly that the darkness of error will be utterly dispersed   AB05401

Thus hath the Sun of Knowledge shone forth from the horizon of the Pen of thy Lord, the Merciful.   BH08273

Open your eyes - verily the Sun is at its zenith. Hold fast unto it and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH02773

especially after the setting of the Sun of Existence and the Most Great Luminary of the placeless   AB05349

When the sun shines in the constellation of Gemini... through the outpourings of the Sun of Truth   AB06180

Behold the grace of God like unto the sun. When it shines forth, its rays encompass all the world.   BH05933

for verily it is one Sun and all else are mirrors wherein is reflected the image of its revelation   BB00256

Praise be unto Thee for having made me the lamp of the worlds and the light of those who know Thee.   BH11068

what hath befallen the Luminary of the horizons. Verily, the sun is eclipsed and the moon is darkened  BH11002

The Sun of Revelation hath appeared and is visible from the horizon of the heaven of divine knowledge  BH10036

Deny not the Sun after its light hath illumined all who dwell in the kingdom of Command and Creation   BH01876

he must shine out like a lighted taper -- not be darkness upon darkness and yet bear the name "Baha'i"  AB04470

Praise be to God, the Sun of Truth hath dawned and is manifest from the Dayspring of loving-kindness.   BH09305

When the Sun of Truth shone forth with intense light and heat from the horizon of the placeless realm   AB05124

Although the atom has no existence by itself, yet under the effulgence of the Sun it becomes apparent.  AB03303

O my God! Ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.  BH11513

We therefore rent asunder the veils of concealment and revealed the Face like the manifest, radiant Sun  BH02135

By God, the Most Great Luminary hath appeared and through Him the heavens and earth have been illumined   BH03793

Lift up those raven locks from Thy moon-like Face, That the sun may get loose from the veil of darkness.  BH03242

O Divine providence, shed a ray from the Sun of Truth upon this gathering that it may become illumined.   ABU3567

"It is the Sun of Truth, O Artist." "The Sun of Truth is everywhere. It is shining on the whole world."   ABU3085

The faces have been illumined by the lights of the Countenance, and the horizons by My luminous horizon.   BH09625

Today the Sun of Manifestation hath risen and is shining from the horizon of the heaven of God's Command   BH09624

Although the Sun of Truth hath appeared manifest and evident like unto the radiant moon and brilliant sun  AB04471

I beseech Thee by the Most Exalted Horizon, the Station from which the Sun of Thy beauty hath shone forth   BH10431

Detachment is as the sun; in whatsoever heart it doth shine it quencheth the fire of covetousness and self.  BH11674

May the rays of the divine eastern Sun illumine thy face and make thy countenance a lamp of the gathering.   AB06743

the Sun of Truth from the Dayspring of Oneness hath shed the lights of unity upon the temples of detachment   AB06937

The Light hath shone forth and He Who conversed on Sinai hath been established upon the throne of Revelation   BH05646

The Sun of Truth is the Word of God...Its radiance in every mirror appears according to that mirror's color.   BH04673

This is the Sun which hath dawned from the horizon of God's beauty; turn ye towards it, O ye who are beloved!  BH11865

That Lamp of Guidance is the Abha Beauty, Who shineth resplendent in the Concourse on High upon all horizons.  AB08119

The sun that would come down and enter everything would not remain the sun. Its identity would be scattered.   ABU3541

The world-illuminating Sun is turning toward the West...If this Most Great Luminary had risen from our horizon  AB06107

And if thou asketh about the effulgences of the Sun of Reality, they are radiant upon the horizons of the world  AB06222

The Sun of the divine realm is manifest and appearing from the placeless Orient upon the kingdoms of the world.   AB05253

He saw the Sun of Truth rising and setting in the dawning-place of lights of the human temple and elemental frame   AB06967

The divine revelation is described as "the Sun shining from the horizon of the heaven of the knowledge of your Lord"  BH09565

The Day of the Peerless Friend hath appeared, and through the triumph of the divine Day the world hath been illumined  BH09804

When the procession of the Merciful Luminary arrived, the spiritual star of fortune for the spiritually-minded rose.   AB04429

"...let us benefit from the effulgences of His Sun of Guidance that riseth and shineth from the horizon of eternity."  AB01877

The Sun of Reality is in the height of its power and majesty but they prefer dark rooms and the light of the candles.  ABU2891

Today the Sun of Truth is His dawning - that Announcement wherewith all the Prophets gave glad tidings to the servants  BH07434

"In the Orient of the world, the Sun of the most luminous heaven has risen and illumined the horizon of divine unity."  AB05730

O luminous lamp! Light a flame and become the lamp of the gathering...assist Your servant to light the lamp of guidance  AB03873

draw you nigh unto the shore of this Sea whose waves cry out and inform the people of that which hath dawned and appeared  BH06221

Deprive me not, O my Lord, of the splendors of the light of Thy face, whose brightness hath illuminated the whole world.   BH08822

And upon thee be the glory from this Glory which hath shone forth from the Dayspring of the Cause with brilliant lights.   BH08473

The Sun of Baha hath shone forth from the horizon of eternity in this Prison which God hath illumined with His presence.   BH04051

For, in truth, that Daystar in its essence hath neither rising nor setting. In His Kingdom of glory He is always manifest.  AB07472

Soon shalt thou behold the Sun of eternity shining forth from the horizon of glory with a sovereignty supreme over all truth.  BH11817

Verily the sun proclaimeth and beareth glad-tidings to the sincere of what hath been ordained for them in a perspicuous Book.   BH06424

"now that the Sun of Beauty hath dawned from the horizon of majesty and standeth at the meridian with sovereign independence"   BH03966

Now that Greatest Luminary has ascended and risen to the Most Exalted Horizon, and eyes are deprived of beholding that Beauty.  AB01729

as the sun in the material heaven develops the material beings, so do these spiritual suns develop the world of minds and souls  ABU1801

When such an eclipse and waning befalls the radiant Sun and shining Moon, what care need we destitute ones have of tribulation?   AB06833

The Kingdom of God is like unto the sun, but only those with sight can find the sun - the blind receive not the rays of the sun   AB05592

and by the Light wherewith the Mount was illumined when it shone forth from the horizon of the will of the Lord of Manifestation   BH09844

the dawning of the lights of My countenance whereby the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the Cities of Names were illumined   BH09427

Say: The Sun hath risen and the Day of God hath appeared, effacing thereby the light of the stars, if ye be possessed of insight.   BH04395

The light of sanctity from the Most Glorious Beauty has shone upon the hearts of the friends and the rays of detachment have dawned.   AB03243

Be thou thankful unto thy Lord, inasmuch as the Sun of Remembrance hath shone forth upon thee from this manifest and gleaming horizon.   BH05452

When His Holiness Moses hastened to Mount Sinai, he found the flame of light and declared "I perceive a fire wherein I find guidance."   AB05780

God hath made a light unto the world, a lamp unto the nations, and a flowing spring unto every thirsty one who is endowed with insight.   BH08281

At this time when the Sun of the heaven of sanctification is shining with utmost brilliance from the horizon of the Most Glorious Beauty   AB06783

As soon as he begins to be detached from this world the Spirit of the Kingdom, like unto a sun, will shine from the horizon of his heart.   ABU3196

Verily it announceth unto the world the appearance of God and His sovereignty and His transcendence and His exaltation and His ascendancy.   BH04242

the true Sun rose, appeared and shone forth from the divine horizon, and Its radiant lights from the Sun of Truth illumined earth and heaven  AB10131

But when the Sun of Truth dawned from the horizon of manifestation and the Preserved Tablet was sent down from the heaven of loving-kindness   BH04691

Look not upon the sedition and its darkness, but rather gaze upon the Sun from which nothing has withheld It, and be illumined by Its lights   BH09605

And verily We have made thee unto all worlds a brilliant sun and an illuminating moon and a chaste mortal and a mighty pillar unto all worlds  BB00002

The true light is the ray of the Sun of Reality which leads the human world from the abyss of imperfection to the highest summit of perfection  AB08699

Some are like lamps, some like the moon, some like distant stars, and a few are like the sun, shining from one end of the earth to the other.   ABU2524

Its likeness is as the sun: when it shineth forth from its horizon it illumineth the regions and brighteth the faces of those who have attained   BH04263

Yet the blind ones, being gathered without sight or insight, remained veiled and deprived from beholding the Sun of Truth with its mighty rays.   AB04874

Today the Kingdom of God is illumined by the lights of the Sun of Manifestation, and the radiance of the Sun of Grace hath encompassed the world   BH06040

This Luminous Light and Merciful Star and Divine Full Moon and Sun that has no equal has a rising and shining forth from the horizon of horizons   AB01288

"which sometimes appears in human form, at times in the form of light, once in the image of the Tree, and another time in the likeness of the Sun"   BH02889

Say: O peoples of the earth! Behold how the Sun hath dawned from the Most Glorious Horizon and the Light hath shone forth from this noble station.   BH02881


These are the suns in the heavens of knowledge and understanding, and these are the guides to the path and the dawning-places of proof and evidence.   BH01724

He returneth its body to clay, its essential body to the gates, and its essential self to the Manifestation of praise, which is the Daystar of Truth.  BB00551

The bounty and loving-kindness of the Blessed Tree towards Its leaves is even as the sun shining resplendent from the horizon of the heaven of grace.   BH10118

As all things are nourished and sustained by the light and warmth of the sun, so are all created things filled with the overflowing bounty of Christ.   ABU3187

At times they appear in the form of the sun and shine forth from the horizon of eternity - how excellent is he who hath been illumined by their lights!   BH03811

Just as the sun arises from several points. This sun after one month will arise from another point. It is just like this; but the reality is the same sun.  ABU3512

For the shadow has ever been with the sun and moves around it, and the fruit has ever been with the ultimate tree - at times manifest and at times hidden.   BH05687

that light shone forth from the horizon of the Manifestation, appeared upon the horizon of existence...the Sun of Guidance dawned in the horizon of heaven   AB04219

For example this electric bulb is a center of light but it only illumines the room but the Sun shines upon all the created phenomena without any distinction   ABU0734

wherein there hath dawned from the horizon of the Bayan the Sun of Wisdom and Exposition, which appeared in His Most Glorious Name in the Kingdom of creation   BH09507

The sanctified and pure beings have then been illumined with these shining lights and luminous splendors so long as they are turning towards that rising sun.   AB02853

And thou must bear witness that His likeness is as the sun in the heavens - though it may rise countless times, it is but one sun, and likewise when it setteth.  BB00087

"he shone so brilliantly in the horizon of existence with the lights of prostration that the moon and sun became amazed and became moths to that brilliant lamp"  AB00413

The Apostle believed in that which was sent down unto him, and likewise the manifestation and effulgence of heat and radiance of the sun in its own true mirror.   ABU1971

Grant, moreover, that they whose hearts yearn over Thee may draw nigh unto the horizon of Thy grace, above which the Day-Star of Thy beauty sheddeth its radiance   BH10274

The sun illumines the entire world, yet its influence is strongest at the equator. Similarly, the divine teachings should have their most powerful effect in Iran.  ABU1267

Say: The Sun hath dawned from the horizon of holiness with manifest radiance. Blessed is he who hath been illumined by its lights and hath dwelt beneath its shade   BH02742

when He appeareth from the horizon of the House, causeth suns to rise from the horizon of the worlds of the unseen and the seen, shining from a station truly exalted   BH02785

the Sun of Reality hath shone forth from the supreme horizon at the meridian with such grace and radiance as to stir the unseen realm of contingent being into motion.  AB04697

Hence, the Baha'is believe in the fundamental truth of all the religions and turn to the Sun of truth. From whatever dawning point it may appear they turn toward it.   ABU2143

When the Most Great Luminary shed its splendor from the horizons of the nations...The Sun of Truth with one ray rent asunder and destroyed all those veils and shrouds   AB02007

On that dawn when the Sun of Reality shone forth from the horizon of the world upon the temples of nations, its brilliant rays illumined and enlightened East and West   AB11846

Although the lights of mysteries have illumined the horizons, the center of light is the Sun of Truth which has shone forth and radiated from the Kingdom of mysteries.   AB01569

This station is like the mighty ocean whose waves strike the shores of contingent realities, and like the most luminous sun whose rays reach the mirrors of pure hearts.   AB07544

The lamp of guidance is aflame and the supreme horizon is radiant and resplendent with the light of the Most Glorious Beauty, shining forth upon the horizons of nations.  AB05301

Say: O people! By God, the Sun hath risen from a mighty horizon. Deprive not yourselves of that which hath appeared in truth, whose light shineth with brilliant radiance.   BH06319

When the Beauteous Beloved revealed Himself among souls in the form of a precious human being, the light shining from this Joseph illumined the whole world with its beauty  AB06241

And these were spiritual suns. Baha'u'llah was a Sun, and Christ was a Sun, and their dawning-point, or the sunrise, takes place there, and the sun appears in the heavens.   ABU0981

However intense human powers may be, they are like a lamp that illumines a limited space and educates a limited number of souls. The sun is needed to illuminate the horizons  AB04069

The Sun of Truth, the Most Great Luminary, the Most Luminous Orb, the Dawn of Guidance rose and shone forth from the dayspring of hopes of the kings of the realm of knowledge.  AB03121

The dawning of the Sun of reformation from the horizon of the world is dependent upon and connected with the Manifestations of power, by the will of God, exalted be His glory.   BH11271

They behold the Sun yet deny it - verily they are in grievous error. Thou seest them shown the Light and thou sayest "Behold this Light of your Lord, the Mighty, the Generous"   BH08980

Fix your eyes on the Sun of Truth for his light floods the whole earth. Let the sun give you of his strength then the clouds of prejudice will not hide his light from your eyes   ABU2529

We hope that through the heat of the Sun of Truth which is rising and shining from the horizon of the Unseen, the cold and moisture of hearts and souls will likewise be dispelled  AB06062

Bay?a' is one of the names of the sun, therefore your radiance and effulgence...This is the gleaming and brilliance of the sun. This light is eternal and this heat is everlasting.  AB06672

The Sun of Beauty hath made the world of hearts more radiant than the luminous day, and hath wiped clean from the tablets of hearts the rust of rational knowledge's manifestations.  BH04709

Those which strive to speak only that which is truth, which hold the mirror up to truth, are like the sun: they light the world everywhere with truth and their work is imperishable.   ABU3165

The sun and the moon together, His face and eyebrow. He unveiled His Beauty and appeared in the garb of the All-Glorious; The whole world was stunned by the light of His Countenance.   BH02846

But the Sun of Truth reveals all created things and uncovers the realities of things and knows the realities of things and casts a special radiance upon the hearts of the beloved ones  AB04442

"See how His radiant face is transformed, See how His cheeks blush so crimson and fair, How bright is this jewel of beautiful hue" and "His brightness doth lighten the nethermost world"  AB06483

The reality of generosity, like the Most Great Name, became manifest and embodied in this most glorious Revelation, and like the sun became visible and evident at the center of possibility.  AB09541

In brief, this praised station is a sun that hath dawned and shone forth in the heaven of prophethood and the firmament of the Cause. Yet its rays and effulgence are manifest in all degrees.  AB08247

And when the brilliant Sun arose, they crept into the corners of their doubts and the crypts of their various delusions, saying "This is night, not day; darkness, not heart-ravishing light."  AB00708

He is the Lamp, the Light that shineth resplendent unto the whole world and it is bound by no man whether clear sighted or blind, for the nature of light is to shed and manifest its radiance.   AB05969

The Sun of Truth has appeared with perfect manifestation and effulgence, and the ocean of bounty is surging. Nevertheless, all remain deprived and veiled save those whom God, thy Lord, has willed.  BH07416

If ye desire the Sun, behold, it hath appeared in its form and hath shone forth from the horizon of might and power with rays that have encompassed the worlds. From it all things draw their sustenance  BH01262

Today that all-embracing Word is the Cause of the Ancient Beauty, which encompasses the world of creation and by whose radiance, manifestation and appearance the luminosity of existence is sustained.   AB02037

The light is the same though the lamps may be different; we must look at the Light not at the Lamp. If we accept the Light in one, we must accept the Light in all; all agree, because all are the same.  ABU2108

the Sun hath appeared behind veils and coverings because ye cannot gaze upon it, as your eyes are clouded by self and passion; therefore hath it risen from the holy horizon according to a fixed measure  BH03034

Is it possible to accept the sun and to reject its rays? He who rejects the rays is a rejector of the sun, too... They do not know that the divine Manifestations are the bright rays of the Sun of Truth  ABU1992

But now the Divine Joseph of Canaan and the Merciful Beloved of Egypt's throne, with a countenance like the sun and a beauty beyond description or praise by those of understanding, has unveiled Himself   AB06639

Therefore be in the utmost joy and delight, for the Sun of Truth is shining forth from the horizon of forgiveness, and surely that boundless Ocean will purify and cleanse the defilement of these sinners.   AB05380

"Verily the Sun of Guidance, Light of the highest heavens, Lamp of the Supreme Concourse, has risen from the niche of the human realm and is kindled and shining in the glass of His most glorious Kingdom"   AB01543

While the Sun was concealed behind the clouds, all were engaged in lamentation and weeping, yet when it emerged through the blessing of the Most Great Name from behind the clouds, most failed to behold it   BH07030

Lift up your heads and open your eyes, that ye may behold the Sun of the Beauty of your Lord shining forth from the horizon of destiny with the sovereignty of His Most Glorious and Most Sublime Remembrance.  BH02338

The Heavenly Sovereignty is like the Sun when all the satellites of the Solar System revolve around it. To all of them the Sun gives light, and is eternal. Both the sovereign and the citizen receive bounty.   ABU1701

Consider the sun. Were it to say now, I am the sun of yesterday, it would speak the truth. And should it, bearing the sequence of time in mind, claim to be other than that sun, it still would speak the truth.  BH00002

Should a black stone be placed facing the light of the sun, the signs of brilliancy would not appear, but, in the pure mirror, the sun, with all of its attributes and perfections, becomes reflected instantly.  ABU3436

Reality is like unto the sun...Even as this sun has become manifest and shining upon all phenomena, all earthly phenomena owe their existence and their development to the sun. The bounty of the sun reaches all.  ABU0022

The remembrance of God, in the form of the Sun behind the ocean of grandeur, hath been witnessed above the horizon of utterance...upon it hath moved the Sun of Beauty with a light that hath encompassed all worlds.  BH04205

The Divine Reality is to man what the sun is to earth. The sun is life, radiance, heat, energy, power. The earth is dead, inert, helpless, incapable of initiative or change. It is poor, cold, and without resources.  ABU0904

In His most noble Temple He unveiled His countenance and lifted all veils, and with a face like unto the sun He became manifest in the gathering of revelation, illumining all horizons with the lights of His beauty.  AB08851

The outer sun is a sign or symbol of the inner and ideal Sun of Truth, the Word of God. Inasmuch as this is the century of light, it is evident that the Sun of Reality, the Word, has revealed itself to all humankind.   ABU0146

Therefore, if any soul denies the divine verses and heavenly evidences and lordly favors in this Manifestation, he is deprived of the Most Great Sea and forbidden from the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of Truth.   BH10444

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath appeared is verily the Sun risen from the horizon of this heaven which hath been upraised in truth through His name, the Mighty, the Inaccessible.  BH06601

O yearning one! even as the planet that circles around the sun, seek thou thy light from this Daystar that hath risen above the horizon of the world, so that thou mayest become entirely illumined, and a sign of His manifestation.  AB05728

The Sun [of Glory] hath dawned from the horizon of eternity with the ornament of God, the Almighty, the Most High, the Most Exalted... for the Sun of Beauty hath risen at the meridian with the sovereignty of grandeur and majesty.   BH03684

so that you may acquire the lights of guidance from the Center of Reality, the true Sun. For though lamps are bright, their light is not continuous, but the light of the sun is continuous and independent, with no darkness following it.   AB05655

Through the grace of that world-illumining Sun's rays, the universe became the envy of the gardens of Paradise, and through the light of that Sun of Reality's manifestation, the horizons became the object of the Ridvan Garden's jealousy.   AB03430

The mirror must be clear, delicate and polished to reflect the light; then the light of the sun will be revealed therein. But if the sun shine forever upon a black stone its rays and heat will not be effective and there will be no result.  ABU0574

That Sun of Reality and Most Great Luminary of the divine world has no setting or declining... This manifestation and concealment, rising and setting, relates to the worlds. The brilliant Sun is always at Its zenith at Its point of burning.   AB03908

Know that all descriptions, praises, attributes and perfections are among the characteristics of the Sun of Truth, and just as light emanates from it and returns to it, these perfections in other realities are borrowed from that Sun of Truth   AB04398

The Hour has drawn nigh and the moon is cleft asunder, and the stars are darkened and scattered, and the greatest spectacle shall appear on a continuing day of gathering, and the Sun of Truth shall be manifested with the most brilliant beauty  AB00297

The Kingdom of God is like unto the sun. It sends the rays on all things. This globe of earth is illuminated by it. In every country where there is no cloud the sun reflects and where there is a cloud all of the sun of the country is concealed.  ABU1321

all faces have been illumined with the rays of the Sun of Truth that shine from the Abha Kingdom on the Tablernacles of the Unity of God, the Manifestations of Oneness, the Day Springs of Holiness and the Dawning Places of the light of detachment  AB05029

One kind are the universal Manifestations, which are even as the sun. But the universal Manifestations are all-encompassing: They are like the root, and all others are as the branches; they are like the sun, and all others are as the moon and the stars.  AB06566

As we know the physical sun by its splendor, by its light and heat so we know God, by the spiritual sun, when he shines forth from the temple of Manifestation by his attributes of perfection, by the beauty of his qualities and by the splendor of his light.  ABU1729

The text uses extended solar metaphors to describe the Manifestation: The intensity of its heat would melt bodies, and the radiance of its lights would dazzle eyes. The force of its rays would burn faces, and the fierceness of its flame would roast hearts.  AB00668

The Sun of Truth also shines, giving light and warmth to the souls of men. All existing creatures need the sun to shine upon them and develop them that they may grow. The souls of men also need the Sun of Truth to shine upon them, to educate and encourage them.  ABU1203

The light is the light, no matter from what lamp it shines. The rose is the rose, no matter from which rose-garden it comes. The fruit is the fruit, no matter upon which tree it is produced. The breeze possesses life, no matter from which direction it is wafted.   ABU1406

Say: O people, do ye not witness how the sun hath risen and the light hath shone forth and the veil hath been rent asunder and God hath stood forth in the holy concourse while the Dove announceth before Him with such melody that all in the kingdom are stunned thereby?  BH02779

The sun has two risings. It appears to rise but really does not (it is the earth that changes). It shines regardless of the earth. If there were no earth, it would shine just the same (though by means of the earth the wonderful effect of the sun in producing life is beautiful).  ABU2770

Now, the sun is the sun by virtue of its effulgent rays; without these rays it would not be the sun. If the perfections of God were not revealed and manifested in Jesus, He would not be Christ. He is a Manifestation of God precisely because the divine perfections are revealed in Him.  AB01521

The Prophets and Their religions are to be compared to the sun which rises on different days and at different times - but always as the same, identical in Their nature, differing only as to Their place in history and Their activity -, Who educate mankind as the teacher educates the child.  ABU0218

The four seasons are caused by the reflection of the sun upon this sphere. As by the Light of the Sun upon the earth, the seasons are formed, so in the same way the Spiritual Sun makes seasons. As to the seasons formed by the Sun of Truth, the appearance of a Prophet is the Spring season.   ABU0333

That orb is setting while this Light is rising. That one causes the mixing, blending, growth and development of bodies, while this one causes the enkindlement, attraction, joy and delight of spirits. That one is setting while this one is dawning; that one is fading while this one is flashing.  AB12058

The Sun of Reality shone forth, casting the effulgences of His Graces upon that country. He proclaimed the Heavenly Teachings and instituted the Religion of the Clement Lord. It is hoped that the Splendor of this Sun might make the expanse of Persia like unto the luminous immensity of heaven.   ABU1795

they have turned toward the Sun of Guidance in the Most Glorious Kingdom and have been enkindled by the fire of God kindled in the Blessed Tree and have received the lights from the Most Great Luminary which has set from the horizons of the nations while it shines from its most exalted horizon   AB03553

That Sun hath no setting and that Luminary of the Supreme Concourse hath no going down. Setting and rising are relative to the people of the earth, but for the sun what rising and what setting? It is ever at the point of burning brightness and at the highest summit of bounty, shining and gleaming.   AB05834

The Sun of Reality is like the physical sun, but this rising and setting pertains to the world of creation, not to God...Observe the visible sun: it is ever-present in its center of radiance, having no rising or setting in its own essence. Rather, its rising and setting are in relation to the earth.  AB11678

He -- glorified be His mention -- resembleth the sun. Were unnumbered mirrors to be placed before it, each would, according to its capacity, reflect the splendor of that sun, and were none to be placed before it, it would still continue to rise and set, and the mirrors alone would be veiled from its light.  BB00575


If you want to see the light, you must look at the essence, and not be misled by the lamp through which it manifests itself. For instance, Abraham was a lantern, and Moses was a lantern, Jesus Christ was a lantern, also Mohammed, and the seal of the prophets (Bab) a lantern, in all of which the Lights of GOD were manifest.   ABU1146

It is only through the rays of the Sun that the various kingdoms of life on this earth are being warmed and lighted... There was a time when this sun appeared from the Eastern horizon... As soon as the sun rose from its dawning place, flooding the regions with light... This have always been the results whenever the Sun of Reality dawned.  ABU0206

What characterises the sun? That it sends forth rays of light and heat which cause living things in the world to grow and evolve. As this is the characteristic quality of the physical sun, so that of the Sun of Reality is to teach and educate human souls; through the warmth of the love of God and the glory of God to appear to the souls of men.  ABU0964

But in the eyes of the people of Truth, the Baha'is, that unseen and unknowable Being is like unto the sun, which hath dawned above all things and from whose rays all creatures, whether mineral, plant, animal, or human, obtain illumination. That is to say, its effulgent rays shine upon them all and they, in turn, reflect faithfully its light.   AB00153

For the shadows present in the mirrors, return not, except unto that form which they have proceeded. Therefore, when the mirror is removed, that which it containeth of the image of the Sun, returneth unto the True Sun, inasmuch as it hath proceeded therefrom. Yet neither its return nor its resurrection taketh place, except at the level of its mirrorness.  BB00001

"The Sun of Reality, by which we mean the Perfections of God, appears, like the physical sun, to change its position in the spiritual heavens relatively to us. As the physical sun has its path of movement during the course of the year, so the Sun of Reality appears to us to move; yet it is ever a fixed centre, radiating always a constant spiritual force."  ABU0401

We must adore the Sun of Reality, no matter from what horizon it may appear, rather than worship the horizon; for if we concentrate our attention upon one horizon, the Sun may arise from quite another point, and we consequently be deprived of the Sun's bestowals. These benefactions are the bounty and guidance of God, the favor of God. This is spiritual progress.  ABU0903

When He rose from Iraq, He caused a tumult throughout all regions and cast an illumined radiance upon all existence. Being was set in motion, contingent existence found joy, the realities of all things sought divine meanings, the atoms of creation found the divine Beloved, the East became the dawning-place of lights, and the West became the horizon of effulgence.  AB03195

Consider the sun metaphor where different prophets are described as horizons where the same sun (divine truth) appears: "It is as if one looked at the horizon instead of the sun, and because the sun was last seen at this horizon, should expect it to appear again at the same place. So, one horizon is that of Jesus, another that of Moses, another of Mohammed, etc."   ABU1577

Yet, O my God, through Thy great mercy and Thy boundless gift, Thou hast brought into being a luminous Point, a Word of Oneness, a singular Reality, a divine Being, and made it the Sun of Truth. It shone with utmost brilliance upon the mirrors of the horizons and appeared as lights from the Dawning-Place of mysteries, shedding upon existence the light of witness.   AB00126

These are mathematical discussions, but we must speak of the Sun of Reality, that celestial Luminary which revolves around itself, not around another, and receives illumination from the lights of the One, nay rather, manifests through itself to itself and does not manifest through another's power, while all circle around it and derive from its lights and benefit from its heat.   AB00938

Verses 12-20: There is a great difference between God and all creatures. All the creation is in darkness but God is the Light. Jesus says, I am the Light of the world; he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness but shall have the Light of Life. The Light here spoken of means the Light of His Perfections - justice, mercy, goodness, love, holiness, truth, unworldliness, righteousness, purity, etc.  ABU0044

The sun is always fixed in its center. Its apparent changes are due to our conditions. In the space of a year the sun rises from one hundred eighty horizon points, which are called the dawning places. As the sun of the universe has no rising or setting, so also with the Sun of Reality. According to our station, He has a rising and a setting, and we have named those points according to our own natures.   ABU0712

In the blessed verse He says that when the luminosity of the lamp, the delicacy of the glass, and the purity of the niche combine, light upon light results: "The likeness of His light is as a niche wherein is a lamp, the lamp in a glass, the glass as it were a glittering star, lit from a blessed tree, neither of the east nor of the west, whose oil would almost glow forth though no fire touched it - light upon light."  AB09498

For instance, the constituent parts of the sun can in no wise be compared to those of the moon. The composition and arrangement of the former necessarily produce rays, whereas the constituent parts of the latter require the acquisition, rather than the production, of light. So the other human realities are souls, which, like the moon, acquire their light from the sun, but that sanctified Reality is luminous in and of itself.  AB00477

It is the afternoon time and the sun's rays are diminishing, but the Sun of Reality is shining and gleaming from the unseen Kingdom with an ever-increasing and multiplying world-illumining radiance. Although for its shining there is no increase or decrease, yet as the intervening clouds and dense vapors increasingly dissipate, the radiance of the Sun of Reality becomes greater and the effulgence of the Luminary of the horizons becomes more magnificent.   AB03004

However, the centers of divine Virtues are the Manifestations of God. Just as the Sun is the center of lights, likewise each one of the prophets of God is the focal point of ideal perfections, the dawning-place of the creational virtues and the shining point of heavenly attributes. If this sun trains the earthly bodies; that sun educates the spiritual verities. If this sun is the center of material lights; that Sun is the Center of ideal lights. This is a phenomenal Sun; that is, the Sun of Reality.   ABU0827

Take for example, the sun. There is a material sun, and there is also a spiritual sun. As the physical sun rises and sets, so also does the spiritual sun. When the sun rises the darkness vanishes. So, also, when the Sun of Truth arises, all errors and ignorance disappears. As everything in the world depends entirely upon the material sun for life and growth, and for producing fruit, for without its rays no fruit would be possible, so, also, without the Light of the Spiritual Sun, souls can produce no fruit.   ABU1628

Therefore, just as the physical sun has its rising and setting, and by its radiance and heat illumines the horizons and nurtures all created things, likewise the Sun of Divine Reality has its rising and setting, its manifestation and concealment. Through its appearance and rising from the Dayspring of Possibility, it illumines the horizons of existence through the outpouring of the All-Merciful and nurtures the pure, sanctified and blessed realities through its mighty effusion and brilliant rays reaching all regions.   AB00123

Likewise, in the spiritual realm of intelligence and idealism there must be a center of illumination, and that center is the everlasting, ever-shining Sun, the Word of God. Its lights are the lights of reality which have shone upon humanity, illumining the realm of thought and morals, conferring the bounties of the divine world upon man. These lights are the cause of the education of souls and the source of the enlightenment of hearts, sending forth in effulgent radiance the message of the glad tidings of the Kingdom of God.   ABU0174

For instance, the sun is one and the same, but its points of dawning are various. During the summer season it rises from the northern point of the ecliptic; in winter it appears from the southern point of rising. Each month between, it appears from a certain zodiacal position. Although these dawning points are different, the sun is the same sun which has appeared from them all. The significance is the reality of Prophethood which is symbolized by the sun, and the holy Manifestations are the dawning places or zodiacal points.   ABU0129

The sun is the light and life of the world. The intention of the sun is to illumine the earth, and the function of the earth is to produce growth in the different kingdoms, vegetable, animal, human, and so on. Everything of earth may have growth because it is the quality (lit.-requirement) of the sun that it should. All this is the effect of the sun upon the body of the earth. The sun in his station is self-sufficient and does not need growth. There is no rising or setting for the sun, because there is no movement to it in its station.  ABU1520

By the terms sun and moon, mentioned in the writings of the Prophets of God, is not meant solely the sun and moon of the visible universe. Nay rather, manifold are the meanings they have intended for these terms. In every instance they have attached to them a particular significance. Thus, by the sun in one sense is meant those Suns of Truth Who rise from the dayspring of ancient glory, and fill the world with a liberal effusion of grace from on high. These Suns of Truth are the universal Manifestations of God in the worlds of His attributes and names.  BH00002

Like the sun passing through the zodiacal stations, at each point of the zodiacal circle it has a designated function, an inevitable influence, and a manifestation that differs and varies in the eyes of those endowed with insight and those who understand the positions of the stars. At one point it appears with the attribute of majesty, at another point it shines with the quality of beauty, and at another point it rises with the light of perfection. Likewise, the Sun of Reality has a special manifestation at each dawning-place of truth and noble constellation.   AB03854

It is a lovely day, the sun shines brightly upon the earth, giving light and warmth to all creatures. The Sun of Truth is also shining, giving light and warmth to the souls of men. The sun is the life-giver to the physical bodies of all creatures upon earth; without its warmth their growth would be stunted, their development would be arrested, they would decay and die. Even so do the souls of men need the Sun of Truth to shed its rays upon their souls, to develop them, to educate and encourage them. As the sun is to the body of a man so is the Sun of Truth to his soul.  ABU0625

The term suns hath many a time been applied in the writings of the immaculate Souls unto the Prophets of God, those luminous Emblems of Detachment. Among those writings are the following words recorded in the Prayer of Nudbih: Whither are gone the resplendent Suns? Whereunto have departed those shining Moons and sparkling Stars? Thus, it hath become evident that the terms sun, moon, and stars primarily signify the Prophets of God, the saints, and their companions, those Luminaries, the light of Whose knowledge hath shed illumination upon the worlds of the visible and the invisible.  BH00002

Say: By God! At times I behold Him as the sun in the temple of holiness, and at times I witness that He surgeth within His Own Self, by His Own Self, for His Own Self, like the ocean that encompasseth all worlds. At times I behold that He hath risen like the heaven, and all created things dwell beneath His shadow, nay, beneath the shadow of His shadow, inhabited in justice. At times He appeareth with light, then radiance, then effulgence, then manifestation and gleaming that seizeth the eyes of all who are in the heavens and earth from turning to His countenance or gazing upon His beauty.   BH01480

As the material Sun is the source of life to all phenomena, so the Sun of Truth is the source of life and light to all the spiritually awakened. As we see the material sun rising and shining, so we see the Sun of Truth rising and shining in a similar way. The material sun is stationary, but to the eyes it appears to rise and set, because of the revolution of the earth. The Spiritual Sun is purified and sanctified above rising and setting, but because the contingent beings appear and disappear, it also seems to do the same. Although, It, like the material Sun, is stationary and is ever shining.   ABU0334

Behold thou the Ancient Beauty in the mirror of thy heart, then take comfort in Him and be of the thankful. Conceal the beauty of the Cause from the eyes of the polytheists, and His mysteries from the hearts of the misguided. By God, the Truth! These are days wherein God hath tested all the Prophets and Messengers, then those who were behind the pavilions of infallibility and the canopy of grandeur and the tent of glory - how much more these polytheists who have taken their own selves for gods, and when the sovereignty of God and His power, then His grandeur and His majesty are made manifest unto them, they place the hand of rejection over their eyes, then hasten to practice deception that they might cause doubt among the servants.  BH00052

In truth, the mention of the Sun and its like refers to His exalted and sublime station among the servants, otherwise every person of insight beareth witness to the sanctification of His Essence from whatsoever hath been mentioned and the detachment of His Self from whatsoever hath been or shall be comprehended. And that this Most Great Manifestation hath been or may be designated as the heaven is due to the fact that the sun, outwardly speaking, appeareth and becometh visible from the horizon of this expanse which is called heaven, and the heaven dominateth and encompasseth it, as can be observed. BH00372
