
The Light hath shone forth and the Fire hath called out from the Divine Lote-Tree   BH04616

The Lote Tree of the Far Boundary hath been stirred by the breezes of the revelation  BH08758

I beseech Thee by the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree and the lights of Thy Throne   BH03531

and the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree hath been raised in the Kingdom of creation  BH04037

This Tree of Life has cast its shadow over East and West...beneath this blessed Tree  AB08243

the leaves of the Divine Lote-Tree, and by its fruits, branches, boughs and rustling   BH11072

caused me to hear the rustling of the Sadratu'l-Muntaha in this most exalted Station   BH05429

gather together Thy servants beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy gracious providence   BH09848

what is revealed unto thee from this Tree upon this blessed spot from this Divine Fire  BH08900

these companions have become illumined and guided by the light of the divine Lote Tree   BH11048

when the blessed Tree appeared, adorned with the choice fruits of wisdom and utterance   BH05794

chant thy melodies upon the branches of the Lote Tree beyond which there is no passing   AB05541

and by the fire of Thy Lote-Tree whereby the hearts of the nations have been set ablaze   BH09381

My call which hath been raised from the Divine Lote-Tree that speaketh amidst the world   BH09104

I beseech Thee by the Tree which Thou hast raised up by Thy command amongst Thy servants  BH07817

the reward of him who circumambulated the Sadratu'l-Muntaha in the Most Exalted Paradise   BH08992

O fragrances of the earth and its mysteries, and leaves of the Divine Tree and its fruits!   BH11449

him who hath turned towards the Crimson Tree that he might hearken unto its most sweet call  BH05916

the melodies of the Dove which warbleth at all times upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-Tree   BH10022

He Who conversed on Sinai is singing upon the Divine Lote-Tree with most wondrous melodies.   BH08710

make your nest and dwelling in the highest branches of the Lote-Tree of the utmost boundary   AB07289

the Divine Lote-Tree hath proclaimed: The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Lord of all worlds   BH07400

thou art of the fruits of the Ultimate Tree which was planted by the hand of the Most Glorious  BH04848

Hearken unto that which is revealed unto thee from the uttermost Tree upon the luminous spot.   BH02147

A station wherein the Lord hath in the Flame of His Beauty appeared within the deathless tree   BH01026

thou art related to this Blessed Tree whose root is firm and whose branch extends into heaven   AB05398

that thou mayest ever dwell, in spirit and fragrance, beneath the shade of the divine Lote-Tree  BH11034

They have traversed the Lote Tree of the utmost realm of love at the beginning of their journey   BH02404

How many are the strangers who have sought shelter beneath the shadow of the tree of Thy oneness   BH09024

Cling fast unto this divine Lote-Tree from which God hath graciously caused thee to spring forth.  BH10891

deprive me not of the shade of the divine Lote-Tree and the shrill voice of the Most Exalted Pen   BH07605

Enable this hand-reared bird to find nest and shelter in the Divine Lote Tree (Sidratu'l-Muntaha)  AB08534

When thou hearest the cooing of the Dove and knowest that which the Divine Lote-Tree hath uttered   BH05344

O branch sprung from the Blessed Tree! Upon thee be the glory of God, His light and His radiance.   AB02298

hear the Call from the Divine Lote-Tree, planted by the hands of grace in the Most Exalted Paradise   BH06335

The Divine Lote-Tree calls out: The Kingdom belongeth unto God, Lord of what was and what shall be.   BH02226

The Divine Lote-Tree crieth out amidst all beings and summoneth all unto God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH10167

The Remembrance of God from the Divine Lote-Tree hath been witnessed at the right hand of the Throne   BH10818

"O leaf of the Divine Lote-Tree! Be thankful that thou hast sprung from Me and art attributed unto Me."  BH09802

soul-entrancing melodies warbled by the Nightingale of Eternity upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-Tree   BH00759

Verily, the exalted leaf hath heard the call of the divine Lote-Tree and hath taken her flight unto it.   BH11569

This is a branch among Thy branches and a fruit among the fruits of the Divine Lote-Tree amidst humanity.  BH10703

He Who hath come with the truth is indeed the Ultimate Tree, the Most Exalted Horizon, and the Primal Word   BH10047

"This is the Day whereon the Divine Lote-Tree calleth out and the Rock crieth aloud through this Great Name"  BH05554

this Divine Tree which hath been raised up in truth and speaketh forth that there is none other God but Him   BH05350

"Verily He is the Tree of Life that bringeth forth the fruits of God, the Exalted, the Powerful, the Great."  BH02022

deriving the fire of guidance from Your unique Tree whose root is firm and whose branch extends into heaven   AB04951

Verily they are the Tree beyond which there is no passing, and whatsoever is created from them are its fruits   BH02847

And when thou dost praise the Divine Lote-Tree, we too are beneath its shade and encompassed by endless favors   AB01871

The Glory shining forth from the Divine Lote-Tree be upon its branches and upon all who are firm and steadfast.   BH10626

advancing toward Thy most exalted horizon, the Station wherein was raised the rustling of the Sadratu'l-Muntaha.  BH06373

O noble branch from the Blessed Tree! ... you are among the branches of the Lote-Tree of the uttermost boundary   AB04533

The scratching of the Most Exalted Pen and the rustling of the Lote-Tree of the Uttermost Boundary are raised up.  BH11890

O exalted Branch from the Tree of Eternity and fresh, verdant Twig from the Lote-Tree of the Uttermost Boundary!   AB01438

others were deprived and shut out from the ultimate goal, the most exalted horizon and the furthermost Lote-Tree.   BH08779

You must be so enkindled by the fire of the Sacred Tree that its effects become manifest and evident in the world.  BH05893

The Tree of Sinai hath been raised up in the holy wilderness and hath yielded the fruits of divine companionship.   BH03811

behold yourselves abiding and enduring beneath the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree in the kingdom of earth and heaven  BH09191

incline with the ear of thine inmost heart unto that which the Dove warbleth upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-Tree  BH08475

Verily it is a leaf from the leaves of My Sadratu'l-Muntaha, moving by the movement of the will and purpose of God   BH04465

Hearken unto the call from the crimson horizon, wherewith the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing doth speak   BH02517

Him through Whose remembrance the Dove warbleth upon the branches of the Uttermost Tree with most wondrous melodies   BH06439

will warble melodies in diverse modes upon the branches and twigs of the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing.  AB04703

"the branch of Thy divine Lote-Tree, the twigs of Thy Tree of Oneness, and the offshoot of Thy Tree of mercifulness"  AB03859

thou hast walked the path of guidance by the lights of the fire of the Blessed Tree in the Sinai of the Divine Tree   AB07570

At all times doth the Divine Lote-Tree call out betwixt earth and heaven and summon all to the straight path of God.   BH06997

The Tree of Paradise and the Lote-Tree of the Uttermost Boundary was planted in the blessed spot of the Sacred Valley  AB01284

Today the Blessed Tree of Baha, which hath been planted by the hand of the Lord of Names in the Most Exalted Paradise   BH04957

Hear the Call of God, the Lord of the hidden and manifest, from the green Tree upraised in the blessed, luminous land.   BH10442

If thou desirest consolation for thy soul and Tranquillity in thy conscience seek repose beneath the Sadratu'l-Muntaha.  AB05837

Verily the Divine Lote-Tree calleth out to its branches and counseleth them to remain supremely steadfast in this Cause   BH10999

The Lote-Tree of certitude brings forth delicate fruits, and the good and pure earth yields flowers and fragrant herbs.   AB06446

Baha'u'llah is the root, I am the Branch. The root of the tree does not bear fruit. The fruit is found upon the branches.   ABU3581

O branch extended, proceeding and raised from the Blessed Tree which was raised up in truth on the Sinai of Manifestation   AB02616

How high is the testimony of the Sadratu'l-Muntaha for its leaf; how exalted the witness of the Tree of Life unto its fruit!  BH06350

the Station wherein the Divine Lote-Tree doth speak: "There is none other God but Him, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting."   BH05423

who heard the call of her Lord from the Divine Lote Tree and was attracted by the holy melodies in the Most Glorious Horizon.  BH11769

O branch of the Blessed Tree!...for it has grown from the Blessed Tree and is therefore most worthy of this great distinction  AB10032

Say: Turn ye, O people, to the Supreme Horizon, the station wherein the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing doth speak.  BH11610

then hearken unto other melodies from the Divine Lote-Tree which hath been planted by the hand of Baha in the Garden of Refuge   BH04382

She warbleth upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-Tree and giveth glad tidings unto them that are nigh and unto the sincere ones.   BH09463

And it is hoped that its grafting will be taken from the divine Lote-Tree and the Tree of detachment and will form a connection.  BH10088

Thereupon the tongue of grandeur and glory hath spoken forth at the Sadratu'l-Muntaha, addressing all who are in earth and heaven  BH11282

The Tree of Life mentioned in the Holy Book is Baha'u'llah, and the daughters of the Kingdom are the leaves of that blessed Tree   AB04482

the Station wherein the Tree of the Uttermost Boundary proclaimeth: There is none other God but Me, the Peerless, the All-Informed   BH07347

Thus have We sent down unto thee that which the Dove hath warbled upon the twigs of the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing   BH05921

Ye are the leaves of the Tree of My Cause; hold fast unto it through My Name whereby faces have shone and eyes have been consoled.   BH05163

Say: By God! The Fire hath returned in the Tree and speaketh forth: 'I am, verily, God, the Mighty, the Exalted, the Well-Beloved.'   BH10540

while you, through the favor of the Most Glorious Beloved, have entered beneath the sheltering shade of the Tree of the Uttermost End  BH08743

the Tree that hath been raised up in the midst of Paradise and whose branches have stretched forth until they encompassed all horizons  AB11008

"Verily Sinai hath been graced to behold its Speaker, the Burning Bush to know its Herald, and the Vineyard of God to see its Beloved."  BH07319

Today the Tree of Utterance, which hath been planted by the hand of grace in the highest Paradise, speaketh forth this most sublime Word   BH09136

Turn with radiant faces unto the Ultimate Tree from whose rustling is heard "Glory and Greatness belong unto God, the Mighty, the Great!"   BH09564

Set your faces toward the Most Distant Station - verily it is the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, if ye be of the assured ones   BH04252

And We testify that thou didst attain unto the Station and didst hear what the Blessed Tree spoke forth from the Sinai of divine knowledge.   BH09109

O God! Dispel my grief with the lights of Thy most joyful tidings and the signs which made the leaves of Sadratu'l-Muntaha to be stirred up.  AB03050

Thus hath the human one revealed the fruits of utterance from this Tree which hath been raised up in truth by God, the Almighty, the All-Wise  BH08982

Today the Mount is in communion with Him Who conversed with it, and the Tree beyond which there is no passing is ablaze in the luminous spot.  BH02923

The Lote-Tree beyond Which there is no passing, crieth out, by reason of the cruelty of the divines. It shouteth aloud, and bewaileth itself.  BH11461

But because this Unlettered One is clinging to the Divine Lote-Tree I can read without any knowledge and without being taught writing I write.   BH10779

Hearken unto that which the Speaker of the Mount uttereth, Who was promised in the Books of God and mentioned by the tongues of the Messengers.  BH08041

this restless and agitated hair, as it moveth upon the Sinai of Fire, within the precincts of Light, this celestial Seat of divine Revelation.   BH07147

O graceful branch of the Tree of Sinai! Blessed art thou to have sprung from this Sacred Tree and to have branched out from this Blessed Sadrih   AB07501

Counsel thyself, and then the souls of men, to hold fast unto the Tree of Paradise at the time when the breezes of hatred blow from near and far.  BH05848

O noble and verdant branch of the Blessed Tree!...that branch of the Divine Lote-Tree and the leaves and fragrances of the Most Great Rose-garden  AB12402

"which sometimes appears in human form, at times in the form of light, once in the image of the Tree, and another time in the likeness of the Sun"   BH02889

The Divine Lote-Tree hath been stirred by the movement of the verses of Him Who is the Lord of all creation, yet most of the people remain heedless.  BH06261

the Tree is firm and growing and in the utmost freshness and verdancy, and ere long will bear delicious fruit and cast its shadow upon the horizons   AB02784

and the Divine Lote Tree hath called out from the Most Exalted Horizon: 'Verily, there is none other God but Him, the One, the Single, the All-Knowing.'  BH10491

He is the Caller from the Divine Lote-Tree, the One mentioned in the heart of Glory, and established upon the throne of faithfulness amidst all peoples.   BH09423

Now, praise be to God, through divine bounty and bestowal, the fire of Moses, the light of guidance, has appeared in the Tree of Truth of the Abha Beauty.  AB04441

O people of the earth! Hearken unto the call of God from the divine Lote-Tree in this sacred and luminous Valley, that there is none other God but Him   BH01363

Blessed is the condition of the leaf that hath clung fast to the Divine Lote-Tree in such wise that the blasts of trials and tests severed her not therefrom.   BH10880

Thus has the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing spoken, as a grace from its presence upon you, that ye may hear and be of those who are firmly rooted.   BH06032

Leave the mention of these, then ascend unto the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, that thou mayest hear the most sweet melodies in the Paradise of refuge  BH01725

Hearken thou to the Call from the Divine Lote-Tree, that it may draw thee to a station wherein thou shalt testify with thy heart and tongue that there is no God but Him   BH07646

Although that tree hath outwardly been cut down in the path of the Ancient Beauty, praise be to God that it hath left behind a young tree, green and fresh, as a remembrance.   AB06957

Thou hast attained unto the days of God and heard that which was raised from the Ultimate Tree which speaketh amongst mankind and calleth all unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH09344

Verily the Light calleth aloud and the Fire proclaimeth: Blessed be the ear that hath heard and hath attained unto that which God hath desired in His glorious and wondrous Day.   BH04965

The divine Lote tree hath been raised in the midmost heart of paradise and hath, through the mercy of the Lord now grown and spread wide its branches to encompass east and west.  AB09582

Upon thee, O Tree of Blessedness, Lote-Tree of the Furthermost Boundary, Garden of Refuge, Most Glorious Horizon and Most Exalted Station at the distance of two bow-lengths or closer!   BB00258

His holiness Moses beheld the flame of fire from the green tree and heard a Voice... Thou hast beheld the kindled fire of the Lord in the Tree that is neither of the East nor of the West  AB08849

this Branch will grow after being cut from the earth and will rise until it overshadows the horizons, and its leaves will reach the highest heights and will yield perfumed fruits to all regions.   AB03017

Glory be to Him who hath brought the East and West under the shadow of the Blessed Tree, the root of which is firmly fixed in the earth and the branches of which reach unto the Supreme Concourse!  AB10786

Consecrate Thou, O my God, the whole of this Tree unto Him, that from it may be revealed all the fruits created by God within it for Him through Whom God hath willed to reveal all that He pleaseth.  BB00596

That is a blessed tree and an exalted word, whose light would well-nigh shine forth even though no fire touched it. That is the Tree of Truth which would well-nigh manifest itself before being summoned.  BB00598

This is the day wherein the rustling of the Sadratu'l-Muntaha was raised and the Cock of the Throne crowed, when the Tongue of Grandeur proclaimed: The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Peerless, the All-Informed.   BH03685

Hold thou fast in all conditions to the Divine Lote Tree, for verily it calleth out and remembereth thee at this moment with that which shall endure as long as the names of God, the Lord of all worlds, shall endure.   BH09197

Verily the Divine Lote-Tree desireth to raise thee up through its sovereignty, and draw thee nigh through its bounty and its hosts, and cause thee to hear its sweetest call and the scratching of its Most Exalted Pen.   BH09115

O people! Take shelter beneath the Lote-Tree of holiness. Verily it hath been among you for numbered years, and ye have known it according to your measure and capacity. Whoso denieth it is assuredly in grievous loss.   BH04985

His Holiness Moses heard the call of the Merciful Lord from the kindled fire in the green tree. Praise be to God that thou hast heard the call of the Revealer of Sinai from the luminous flame in the blessed human tree.  AB08898

His Holiness Moses heard the call of the Merciful Lord from the kindled fire in the green tree... that call was raised from tree and stone and clay, while this call was raised from the Most Great and Glorious Manifestation.  AB08898

And may the light shining from the Most Glorious Horizon encompass and surround the Ultimate Lote-Tree, the Tree firm in root, lofty in branch, continuous in flower, perpetual in fruit, and its family and leaves and fruits.  AB09667

Verily the Divine Lote-Tree desires to make mention of one of its fruits, and to gladden it with its loving-kindness and grace, and to remind it of that which hath been inscribed upon its leaves by the Most Exalted Pen of God  BH04963

Today it befitteth the leaves of the Divine Lote-Tree to make mention and offer praise unto God, exalted be His glory. Each of the leaves of the Ultimate Lote-Tree is engaged in a different remembrance and uttereth a different praise.   BH09170

The Holy Tree (Sadrat) is, in a sense, the Manifestation of the One True God, exalted be He. The Blessed Tree in the land of Za'faran refereth to the land which is flourishing, blessed, holy and all-perfumed, where that Tree hath been planted.   BH04254

The Divine Lote-Tree desires to send unto thee a fruit from among Its fruits, and a leaf from among Its leaves, and a remembrance from among Its remembrances, that It may draw thee closer, in all conditions, to God, the Lord of the Mighty Throne.   BH07488

This is a fresh, verdant, graceful and flourishing branch growing from the Tree of Thy divine unity and the Lote-Tree of Thy oneness...Send Thy blessings upon the Tree of Unity and its branches, twigs, leaves, roots, offshoots, conditions and fruits   AB02494

Praise be to God Who hath adorned the Mount with His Interlocutor, and the Tree with its Planter, and the Fire with its Kindler, and hath revealed that which was hidden in knowledge and inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH02666

May your relatives, God willing, dwell and rest beneath the Sadratu'l-Muntaha. One Sadrah is manifest and visible at the ultimate station, and one Sadrah is without end - glorified be He Who created them both and planted them and made them manifest and preserved them.  BH01567

Blessed be thy brother and thou, and they who have hastened with their hearts unto the Divine Lote-Tree which speaks forth in the kingdom of creation that which it spoke before creation itself: "Verily there is none other God but I, the Truth, the Mighty, the Wondrous."   BH08572

Say: The Tree hath been raised up in truth, and the birds of the hearts of them that know cannot attain unto its heights save whom thy Lord willeth. Verily He is the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful. Blessed is he who hath heard its rustling and the warbling of the birds that circle round it.   BH04545

And verily it is the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing. Blessed is he who dwelleth beneath its shade; he is indeed of those who have attained. Then doth the Tree lament what hath befallen it from the heedless ones, when the people stone it with the rocks of idle fancies and vain imaginings.  BH01262

The Tree of Life spoken of in this account refers to none other than the Manifestation of God in the human form, through whom God manifests His life-giving Spirit in the form of words, and whosoever partakes of the fruits of this Tree shall indeed attain everlasting life, in accordance with His Command.  ABU0217

I beseech Thee, O God, by the Tree which Thou hast planted at Thy affirmation and watered with the blood of Thy loved ones, to cause that Tree, its branches, leaves and fruits to grow until it reacheth that which is befitting at Thy creation and returneth to that which is worthy of the court of Thy glory and majesty.   BB00147

That branch of the blessed tree must be green and fresh and moist and fruitful in spring and summer and autumn and winter - that is, in all seasons - so that it may become clear and evident that through the grace of the Abha Beauty it exists in an eternal spring, nay rather, in a springtime that has no autumn to follow.   AB03839

"The tree must have roots in order to yield fruit. The trees of the forests of Asia have yielded no fruit for thousands of years, except the blessed Trees of the Divine Manifestations, for each one of these Trees hath so developed and flourished that it hath trained and nourished the whole earth with fruits and yields."   ABU0821

The Divine Lote-Tree hath been planted by the hand of this Most Great Remembrance in a Paradise that was hidden from the eyes of the polytheists. It hath been raised up through this Name, as We watered it from the Water of Life which flowed from a luminous and holy Finger. And verily it encompasseth all who are in the heavens and the earth   BH07278

Glory and praise be upon the white pearl, the Lote-Tree of the uttermost boundary, the Tree of Blessedness, the benevolent Reality, the celestial Gem, the divine Unique One, the all-embracing Word, the brilliant Flame, the blessed Tree, and upon those who seek shelter beneath its shade, pluck from its flowers, and gather its fruits forever and ever.  AB01523

For verily this Tree is holy, celestial, divine, heavenly, almighty, godly, paradisiacal - it is not its own creator, rather it is the Realized Being manifesting through its revelations. It is neither of the East nor of the West, neither oriental nor occidental, neither of heaven nor of earth, but rather it is the Essence of essences through its manifestations.   BB00171

Remove thyself from all that thy desires command thee and draw nigh unto the Divine Lote-Tree. By God! When thou enterest beneath its shade and turnest with thy whole being unto it, thou shalt hear from each of its leaves: Rejoice, O peoples of creation, for your Lord, the Most High, the Most Exalted, hath come, His countenance luminous between the heavens and the earth!  BH11794

Know thou that We created the Sidrat'ul-Muntaha in the crimson hill beyond the crimson sea of grandeur, and raised it to such a station that were all who are in the heavens and on earth to seek shelter beneath one of its leaves, they would be preserved from the heat of self and passion, inasmuch as We shed upon it a light from the lights of this Sun which hath dawned in truth.   BH00710

In the Gospel it is said "I am the Vine, the Father, the Husbandman." Mohammed said that god is as a tree. Baha'o'llah said that He was a Divine Lote Tree. In the time of Moses God appeared to Moses as a Bush of Fire, but was not consumed. The meaning of this, is that all Prophets have likened the Cause of god unto a tree. Baha'o'llah said that He was the Lote Tree and the teachers and prophets the Branches and the believers, the leaves.   ABU1009

Hasten ye to the Tree of God and seek shade beneath it. By the Truth of God! Should ye search throughout all regions of the heavens and earth, ye would find no place of security save beneath the shade of this Tree which hath been raised up over all mankind. Through its boughs wafteth the breath of God whereby every mouldering bone is quickened. Turn ye unto it and eat of its fruits that your hearts may be purified from the promptings of every wicked sinner.   BH00610
