
Verily I am God, no God is there but Me, and aught except Me is but My creation. Say, worship Me then, O ye, My creatures.  BB00020

the Lote-Tree speaketh: "Verily, I am God"   BH09716

Verily I am the Proof of God and His Light   BB00649

O My Name! By My glory and grandeur and majesty   BH11382

There is no God but Me, the Almighty, the Powerful  BH06262

I am He Who speaketh from Mine all-highest horizon   BH06164

This is of Our mercy which hath preceded all worlds.  BH07837

There is none other God but I, the Mighty, the All-Wise   BH03343

Verily, there is no God but Me, the Single, the All-Informed  BH08545

verily there is no God but Me, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved   BH05501

In My Name which shineth forth from the horizon of utterance!  BH09812

There is none other God but Me, the Single, the All-Informed.   BH06675

Verily there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH08877

There is none other God but Me, the Rememberer and the Remembered  BH09712

Verily there is no God but I, the Truth, the Knower of the unseen   BH08531

There is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise  BH05465

Verily there is no God but I, the Truth, the Knower of the unseen.   BH02978

"Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Bountiful"   BH10057

Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Forgiving, the Generous.   BH07061

Verily, I am God, Who hath ever been the Witness unto all the worlds   BH06531

Verily, there is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise   BH07710

"Verily, I am God, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, the All-Bountiful."  BH08938

By My Life, He Who speaketh at this hour declareth: The kingdom is Mine  BH07736

"The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Lord of the seen and the unseen!"   BH05367

"God testifieth that there is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing."   BH03508

Verily the Throne is My Temple whereon the All-Merciful is seated.   BH08788

There is none other God but Me, the Truth, the Knower of things unseen.   BH02351

Today He Who conversed with Moses is seated upon the throne of Revelation   BH08030

"There is none other God but Me, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting."  BH06374

Verily, there is none other God besides Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH11614

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and that I am He   BH11407

By My Word were the heavens raised up, and by My Name was the Throne established   BH08200

"O peoples of the earth! The Lord of Heaven hath come with manifest sovereignty."   BH04957

Hold thou fast unto the Sure Handle which We have manifested in the temple of man.   BH08926

I, Who am established upon the Throne of Utterance, make mention from Our presence   BH05047

We have made mention of him before and after, and verily We are the Best Rememberer.  BH10772

We have adorned the Most Great Prison through the advent of the Sovereign of nations  BH06709

Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise   BH02791

Thus hath My tongue spoken when the Throne was established in this exalted station.   BH05865

Hearken, O servant, unto that which God calleth thee from the direction of the Throne  BH03549

Thus doth the Supreme Pen command thee from the presence of the Mighty, the Powerful.  BH11807

Thus did the Pen speak when the Ancient Beauty was established upon His mighty throne   BH08584

This is the Day wherein the Tongue of Grandeur calleth out with the most exalted call   BH03979

Thou didst manifest the Manifestation of Thyself through Thy sovereignty and Thy power   BH09382

Verily We have manifested Ourselves for your life, but most of the people are heedless   BH08864

Verily, there is no God but Me, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH11748

Thus hath the Tongue of My Will commanded thee from within the pavilion of My majesty.   BH09108

"Verily, I am the Truth! It hath been written from God as a proof for all the worlds."   BB00396

This is the Day wherein all things have been adorned with the raiment of My remembrance   BH10179

Verily thy Lord doth witness and behold, and He is the Truth, the Knower of the unseen.   BH07984

Thus have surged the ocean of utterance while the Wronged One was in His mighty prison.   BH00683

O thou who gazest upon the Face! Upon thee be My peace, My mercy and My loving-kindness.   BH04886

Were He to find mighty servants, He would forever and always proclaim "Verily, I am God!"  BH04205

The Supreme Pen beareth witness that thou art among those who have believed and attained.   BH10555

This is a mention from Us to him who heard the Call and said "Yea, O Lord of all beings!"   BH07859

The All-Merciful has appeared upon the Sinai of all worlds and the Divine Lote-Tree speaks  BH06228

Verily there is none other God but Me, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH05753

He it is Who speaks in all things: "Verily, I am God, the Sovereign, the Self-Subsisting."  BH05093

O people! I am the Most Great Sign amongst you and the Most Exalted Word within you.   BH04852

The Wronged One hath loved faithfulness and hath ever gazed and continueth to gaze upon it   BH08992

The Beloved hath come with sovereignty, grandeur and glory. Beware that ye oppose Him not.   BH07649

Verily this is the Manifestation of God in all things, as every created thing doth testify   BH06655

Verily, there is none other God but Me, the All-Powerful, the Almighty, the All-Compelling   BH04078

The Tongue of Revelation hath spoken: There is none other God but Him, the One, the Chosen.   BH11423

I have come to you from Sinai with the call of God, the Exalted, the Triumphant, the Ancient   BH11398

Thus have We remembered you and caused you to hear, that you may thank your All-Knowing Lord   BH07764

We have remembered, throughout the nights and days, the chosen ones of God and His loved ones   BH08692

All names are My name and whatsoever is created is My proof - blessed are they who know.   BH04532

We departed in such glory as the eyes of them that are nigh unto God had never beheld the like   BH08329

There is none other God but Me, the Single One, the All-Speaking, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise  BH07880

Who speaketh before the faces of the world through Thy power and Thy might and Thy sovereignty   BH05643

Verily, Thou art the One possessed of great bounty, and Thy mercy hath preceded all the worlds   BH04978

We have indeed sacrificed one of the Branches. Say: Unto Thee be praise, O Glory of the worlds!   BH09995

He is the One Who hath rolled up the heavens of your idle fancies while ye perceive it not.  BH11741

This is a Book We have sent down in truth for whosoever has turned to the One, the All-Informed.   BH11426

He hath appeared in the garment of "I am" and speaketh forth with "I am the One Who is manifest."   BH10913

O thou who art mentioned before the Wronged One! Bear thou witness even as God hath borne witness   BH04464

Thus hath My Most Exalted Pen spoken unto thee that thou mayest rejoice and be of the thankful ones.  BH09233

He is the One Who speaks from His most exalted horizon...We have beheld thy heart and heard thy call.  BH10717

One Who calleth out with the most exalted call is He Who was promised in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH05281

He speaketh in the kingdom of creation: There is none other God but Him, the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH06209

We have accepted what ye desired in the path of God and have written for you, from My Most Exalted Pen   BH10918

He doth speak in the Most Great Prison: "There is none other God but Me, the Forgiving, the Generous."   BH08319

the Tongue of Grandeur proclaimeth: "There is no God but Me, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting."   BH04046

Thou art the Lord, Thou art the Creator, Thou art the One Who appeared on Sinai in the realm of lights.  AB04506

The Most Exalted Pen proclaims: There is none other God but Me, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.  BH10998

My tongue beareth witness that there is none other God but Me, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.   BH08622

Verily, He calleth the world unto the Mighty, the All-Bestowing from within the Most Great Prison.   BH06155

Thus doth the Tongue of Grandeur counsel you as He sits upon the throne of His name, the All-Forgiving.   BH04565

Thus doth the Mighty, the Powerful instruct you as He speaketh amidst mankind and calleth them unto God   BH05689

The Wronged One testifieth that there is none other God but Me, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.   BH08289

And I am, verily, powerful over whatsoever I will. There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Great.  BH05606

We call them to the Kawthar of life, but they have turned away from it, having followed vain imaginings.   BH04788

"I am God, there is none other God but Me, verily, I am, at all times independent of the entire creation"  BH02265

Now is the time for the diffusion of light and the manifestation of mysteries from the Revealer of Sinai   AB03549

I am so fatigued the hour is come when I must leave everything and take My flight. I am too weary to walk.   ABU3592

My most exalted Paradise and the Ridvan have appeared, saying: Enter ye therein with peace and tranquility!   BH08352

He speaketh amongst the nations: verily there is none other God but Him, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting.   BH05714

The Supreme Pen testifeth that thou hast recognized My sovereignty and drawn from the ocean of My knowledge   BH04236

"I was a Treasure hidden in a station unknown to all save Mine own Self, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed."  BH00421

He Who speaketh is verily the Hidden Mystery and the Name through which the Books of God...have been adorned   BH09421

Thus doth the Pen move when the Tongue of Eternity speaketh. He, verily, is the Single One, the All-Knowing.   BH08338

the Speaker on Sinai hath proclaimed: "There is none other God but Me, the Lord of the unseen and the seen."   BH03903

Verily He speaketh the truth and guideth to the Way, and He is the Almighty, the Glorious, the All-Beautiful.  BH07570

This is a Book sent down by the Wronged One, wherein He summoneth all to God, the Almighty, the All-Praised.   BH08993

"This is a letter from God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, unto God, the Almighty, the Best Beloved"  BB00550

O My Pen! How many a day hast thou heard My lamentation for My tribulations and thy cry for Mine afflictions!   BH08683

I created creation for this Day, yet when it appeared, those who followed vain imaginings turned away from it   BH07071

Hearken unto the Call from the precincts of the Prison - there is no God but Me, the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH06733

by His word "Be" and it is, hath He manifested the favor and sent down the table as a grace from His presence   BH05398

Thus have We bestowed Our favor upon thee in truth and made mention of thee in a preserved Tablet of holiness.   BH08069

We have found you stirred by the breezes of God. We have sent down this Tablet unto you at this wondrous dawn.   BH05812

Nothing whatsoever escapeth His knowledge - He witnesseth and seeth, and He is the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing.   BH09168

"God hath made Me the Discriminator between created things - verily He is the Ruler over whatsoever He willeth"   BH03521

Whatever I manifest is nothing more or less than the measure of the Divine glory which God has bidden me reveal.  BH11452

the Station wherein the Lord of Destiny proclaimeth: "There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Gracious."   BH09702

Behold naught save My luminous and exalted Beauty, and utter naught save My praise, if thou be of them that know.  BH08462

The Pen of the All-Merciful in the Most Great Prison makes mention of thee and says: We gave the glad-tidings...   BH08117

The Wronged One makes mention of thee from the prison precincts and summons thee to God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH05228

This is a Book that speaketh the truth, that there is none other God but Him, the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting.   BH02168

By God's life! They desired naught but My Self, and it moveth by My Name, the All-Encompassing over all horizons.   BH09232

Thus has the Dove warbled upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree by the command of One Who is mighty and wise.   BH06780

O concourse of creation! The gates of heaven have been opened through this Lamp that hath appeared in human temple   BH06446

We have mentioned unto thee that which We heard through Our Name, the Self-Subsisting, Who is this truthful Speaker   BH09775

"Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the All-Knowing." I created all peoples for this Most Great Day  BH09254

Thus hath the Cock crowed and the Nightingale warbled, when the Speaker of Sinai spoke forth in this noble station.   BH07711

And I am He Who speaketh in all things that I am God, there is no God but Me, the Guardian, the Mighty, the Generous  BH01690

This is a Book which of itself speaketh and saith, heareth and answereth. Verily He is the Speaker, the All-Hearing.  BH06305

He is the One Who calleth before the faces of all creatures... There is no God but I, the Almighty, the All-Choosing.  BH03537

The Most Exalted Pen of God. And dost thou recognize from which horizon? From this luminous and resplendent horizon.   BH00494

We beseech God, exalted be He, to assist him in that which beseemeth His days and to aid him in that which He desireth  BH07891

This is an epistle from the One Who hath been imprisoned in the path of God, the Almighty, the Powerful, the Bestower   BH02486

The Divine Lote-Tree calls out with the most exalted call and summons all unto God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.  BH08040

the Lote-Tree of the utmost boundary proclaimeth: "There is none other God but I, the All-Hearing, the All-Answering."   BH07714

This is a Day wherein all things speak even as the Ancient Beauty spoke when He was seated upon His Most Great Throne.   BH05743

The Tongue of Revelation hath spoken: Verily, there is none other God but Him, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.   BH05843

The Divine Lote Tree calls out... The Lord exclaims... The Supreme Pen chants... the Speaker of Sinai utters these words   BH10596

Thus hath My Most Exalted Pen spoken, and the Tongue of Grandeur hath testified thereunto from His Most Glorious Horizon   BH10078

We make mention of those who turned to God...We guide them to the Ark which We have fashioned with the hands of Our power  BH07521

Through it has crowed the Cock of the Throne and warbled the Dove: "There is no God but I, the Forgiving, the Generous."   BH06557

These are the days of the All-Merciful, and the lamp of divine favor is lit and shining at the axis of contingent being.   BH06101

The Wronged One calls out amidst the world and commands the people to that which He was commanded by the Mighty, the Wise.  BH08048

In My Name, the All-Subduing over all names... I testify that thou hast attained unto My days and turned toward My horizon  BH05620

the station wherein the Lord of Destiny proclaimeth: "There is none other God besides Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise."   BH05429

Thus have We imparted unto thee the word of truth that thou mayest rejoice within thyself and be severed from the wicked.   BH03350

"This is a City which God hath manifested through His power. Say: Journey therein if ye gaze upon the countenance of God."  BH05177

Verily, the Wronged One maketh mention of the servants of God on earth and summoneth them unto God, the Lord of existence.  BH11653

O thou who art mentioned before My throne and inscribed in My Book! Upon thee be My glory, My mercy and My loving-kindness.  BH10689

Today the Speaker of Sinai is manifest and evident, and upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree He speaks and proclaims.   BH09785

Hearken unto that which is revealed unto thee from the direction of eternity in this Most Holy, Most Pure, Most Great Spot   BH10759

This is the Day whereon the Tongue of Grandeur hath spoken: "There is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise"   BH08037

God hath dawned forth from the horizon of the Prison upon thee, O thou who hast turned towards God, the Cleaver of the Dawn!  BH07178

He is the One Who rules over what has been and what shall be... He announceth unto the servants the Day of Mutual Summoning   BH04576

The eternal Nightingale and the everlasting Dove are manifest and joyous on the right hand of Sinai with resplendent verses.   BH11433

We love to remember the loved ones in all conditions, as attested by that which hath been sent down from My Most Exalted Pen   BH07514

This is a Book which the Wronged One hath sent down unto him who hath believed in God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  BH08991

O My servants! Hearken unto My call from the precincts of My prison. There is none other God but I, the Stranger, the Prisoner.  BH06281

Hearken thou unto the call of thy Lord from the right side of the Throne, from behind a thousand veils of luminous silk damask.   BH11564

Thus doth the Manifestation of God's Self command thee in this Dayspring which hath shone forth from the horizon of this Beauty   BH08233

We have heard mention of thee and have made mention of thee with that which the treasuries and riches of the world cannot equal.  BH02279

We found man asleep; We awakened him. And We saw him distant; We drew him near. And We found him mute; We caused him to speak...   BH08704

The entire tablet shows Baha'u'llah speaking with divine authority using phrases like "My glory," "My Name," and "My handmaiden"   BH08507

We left the house, turning toward another land, remembering My early days and speaking the verses of God, the Lord of the worlds   BH05437

By My life! These shall detach them from the worlds...There is no God but I, the Powerful, the Exalted, the Mighty, the Beauteous  BH04847

O people! I am but a servant of God and His bondsman. I have come to you from the direction of God with a message from Him.   BH01062

A mention from Us to him who hath spoken the truth...To this beareth witness the Lord of Names, Who speaketh in this noble station  BH06160

"Verily, in every state He speaketh: 'I, verily, am God. There is none other God but Me, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.'"   BH10922

The Lord of Names hath appeared in the Prison of 'Akka and uttereth: 'There is none other God but Me, the Forgiving, the Generous.'  BH10426

He Who is encompassed by sorrows... makes mention of thee at this hour... Thus have We sent down the verses and dispatched them...   BH10100

There is no God but Me, the All-Compelling, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise...Verily there is no God but Me, the Mighty, the Generous  BH08797

We were with thee at the time when thou didst what thou didst in the name of thy Lord. Verily thy Lord is cognizant of all things.   BH06062

He Who speaketh in all things beareth witness unto this, that there is none other God but Me, the Most Exalted, the Most Glorious.   BH05960

We summon you unto God and seek from you no recompense - the Pen of Revelation beareth witness to this, were ye of them that hear.   BH04840

He Who speaketh in every condition beareth witness to this, that there is none other God but Me, the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting   BH02160

"The Lord hath come with manifest sovereignty!" Thus hath the Tongue spoken, when the Wronged One was in His praiseworthy station.   BH10464

By God! The Fire hath returned in the Tree and speaketh forth: 'I am, verily, God, the Mighty, the Exalted, the Well-Beloved.'   BH10540

Thus did the Tongue of Grandeur speak as He walked during this night in a place which God had made among the most exalted of places.   BH11315

This is a Book which speaks with truth and makes mention of the people in this Day...We have offered up Our spirit in the days of God  BH10400

O Husayn! Hearken unto the Voice of Him Who speaketh in all things: "There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful!"   BH07370

Thus calls out the Tongue of God from behind the Lote-Tree of the Uttermost End, addressing those who dwell on earth and in heaven...   BH03305

My hair is My Messenger. It is calling aloud at all times upon the branch of Fire within the hallowed and luminous garden of Paradise   BH10832

This is a Tablet from the Prisoner... Hearken thou unto My call from the direction of the Prison, that there is none other God but Him  BH07302

And this, verily, is the Beauty of God which hath dawned from behind the veils with a sovereignty that cannot be concealed nor hidden.   BH02033

O My Afnan! Recall thou the days when thou wert in My presence and didst hear the voice of God, the King, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH09614

The Dawning-Place of the Divine Books is manifest today, and the Speaker on Sinai uttereth His discourse from the most exalted station.   BH07231

He is, verily, no God but I, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise... We have, of a truth, mentioned thee and do mention thee through Our Will.   BH06835

The trees hear My call in the morning and the evening, at nightfall and at dawn. By My life! In the early hours My ears hear My own call.  BH10961

I bear witness to that which God hath testified, and to which testify the Concourse on High and those who circle round His mighty Throne   BH07705

Were it not for My remembrance, the Bayan would not have been revealed nor would the Beloved of the worlds have offered up His life.  BH01902

Me, therefore, do ye worship. This is a blessed leaf from the Crimson Tree - there is no God but He. Say: Me, therefore, do ye fear.  BB00009

He is the One Who speaketh the truth in the Kingdom of Utterance... There is none other God besides Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed   BH06562

This is a letter written entirely in the voice of God, with phrases like "Draw forth the sword of utterance in My name" and "By My life!"   BH05293

I am He through Whose name the Tablets were sent down and the pages of God, your Lord, were adorned, were ye of the perceiving ones.   BH01508

The Most Great Ocean hath surged, and from each drop thereof is heard: "There is no God but Him, the One, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful!"   BH01327

We have turned toward thee from the precincts of the Prison and have sent down for thee that which will attract thee to the supreme horizon  BH10679

Blessed art thou for having attained unto My days, and for having heard My Revelation and My establishment upon the throne of My utterance.   BH08521

He speaketh as He pleaseth even as He spoke in the Burning Bush - "Verily, there is no God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed."   BH07967

"In My Name which warbles upon the branches! O My handmaiden, upon thee be My glory! Hearken unto My call from the direction of My prison."   BH07337

O people! I desired not to manifest Myself, but the Mighty, the Faithful manifested Me. I concealed My face; your Ancient Lord revealed it.   BH03232

the Prisoner, through Whom the Tree hath spoken, and the Mount called out, and the Rock cried aloud, and the Vale flowed, and the Dove sang   BH02738

I, verily, am the Path of God unto all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth; well is it with them that hasten thereunto!  BH00007

The atoms have testified to that which My tongue hath testified in My prison - that there is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing Speaker.   BH09477

My tongue hath testified to My Self, and My Self hath testified to My Temple... Thus hath My tongue spoken in the kingdom of Mine utterance.   BH07193

Verily the sea walketh in human form and counseleth the servants with that which will profit them in the worlds of their Lord, the All-Wise.   BH06424

We have heard thy call and witnessed thy turning to Us. We make mention of thee as a bounty from Us, that thou mayest be of the thankful ones.   BH08482

A remembrance from Us to whoever desires to enter within the pavilion of grandeur and glory... We have loved your presence even as you love it   BH04208

We have manifested that which was hidden in knowledge and have sent down from the heaven of Will that which the reckoners have failed to reckon   BH07816

By God! I speak not of Mine own desire, but the Spirit speaketh within My breast. These words are not from Me but from One mighty and powerful.   BH01066

We have heard thy mention and have remembered thee. We have found the fragrance of thy love and have sent down for thee this well-beloved Tablet   BH09516

O people! By God, My tongue moveth through the will of your Lord, the Most Merciful, and My pen through His all-powerful and mighty finger.   BH05922

The four letters which are mentioned in the tradition of the Imam (peace be upon him) that must be revealed with the Promised One are these four stations: The station of servitude, with which the Promised One arose at first; and the station of Imamate, concerning which He said "Verily I am the Qa'im Whose appearance was promised unto you"; third is the station of Prophethood, concerning which He said that the Holy Manifestations have no beginning and no end; fourth is the word "Verily I am God" - "He speaketh not from mere impulse. His utterance is but revealed revelation."  AB07770

God testifies that there is no God but Him, and that He Who speaks is indeed the Dawning-Place of His signs and the Dayspring of His clear tokens   BH05421

He is the One speaking at the center of the world, that all peoples might turn to the horizon of the manifestation of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH01720

My outward calls unto My inward and My inward unto My outward. There is none in the kingdom save Me, and I am the Truth, the Knower of the unseen.   BH11372

We have enjoined upon all to act with goodliness. We have forbidden the servants from all that would give rise to sorrows in the contingent world.   BH07374

Were ye to look with My eye, ye would behold it as the Dawning-Place of My most excellent names and the Manifestation of My most exalted attributes  BH08413

The All-Bountiful, Who is imprisoned in the prison of 'Akka, makes mention of thee, inasmuch as He hath summoned all unto God, the Lord of all names  BH07378

The remembrance of God from the Tree of Fire upon the Spot of Paradise: God, there is no God but Him, and verily He has been knowing of all things.   BH04206

I have appeared and made manifest that which was recorded in the Books of God and treasured up in His knowledge; yet most of the people are as dead.  BH11669

God hath testified of Himself that there is no God but Him - no God but I, the Single, the One, the Individual, the Self-Subsisting, the Bountiful.   BB00288

He hath spoken and continueth to speak before the face of the world: 'There is none other God but Me, the Single One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.'  BH08777

We make mention of thee in this wondrous Tablet. We beseech God to give thee to drink, from the cup of His bounty, the choice wine of His utterance.   BH10701

Throughout the text, particularly in statements like "Hear the Call from Mine exalted horizon" and "When thou findest the fragrance of My utterance"   BH03574

The Tree hath spoken in My breast and the Treasure hath called out in My heart, saying: "There is none other God besides Me, the Mighty, the Great."   BH03241

This is a Book which hath been sent down in truth from the presence of One mighty and wise. It speaketh that I am the Prisoner in this mighty Prison.   BH05545

By God, I speak not from desire - rather the Spirit speaketh within My breast, and My proof is My arising and what floweth from a mighty holy Finger.   BH03464

In the Name of Him at Whose bidding the Nightingale warbles in the Realm of Eternity that there is none other God but Me, the Almighty, the All-Wise!   BH02085

We have previously sent unto thee that which caused the eyes of the people of Paradise to be gladdened and its fragrances to be wafted to all regions.   BH07922

O people, suspicion is a sin in God's Book - thus hath it been sent down in the Tablets, and thy Lord, the All-Merciful, is witness to what I say   BH05350

I have believed in God and the Manifestations of His Cause. He hath raised Me up in truth and sent Me unto all who are in the heavens and on earth  BH02613

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who speaketh is verily the Dawning-Place of revelation and the Rising-Point of inspiration.   BH10836

I am the springtime of the All-Merciful for that which was sown in the Bayan, and the rain of grace for that which was planted therein with justice  BH03005

The Truth seeth and heareth. Whosoever acteth in accordance with that which hath been commanded will assuredly attain unto the infinite bounties of God.   BH07484

When I was standing in the House, there came before the Presence a letter from him who had drunk the Choice Wine sealed with My Name, the Self-Subsisting  BH06244

I know not, O my God, how I should conduct myself amidst Thy servants. Whenever I remind them of the wonders of Thy remembrance, they rise up against me.   BH09563

God beareth witness unto His Own Self by His Own Self that verily I am alive in the Most Glorious Horizon, and from this Horizon I speak forth in all things   BH11409

Once We heard from the right the mention of My mighty Name, and again from the left My Name, the One Who overshadeth all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH06963

Thus has My tongue spoken and My pen moved by My command, and I am the Mighty, the Bestower. Verily there is none other God but Me, the One, the Chosen One.   BH06673


"Through it God hath transformed the prison, making it a plot of Paradise, wherefrom waft the breezes of the mercy of your Lord, the Mighty, the Wise."   BH03317

Thus hath there flowed from the tongue of My Pen the stream of My bounty, as a token from My presence, and I am, verily, the Truth, the Knower of the unseen.   BH09694

The Lamp proclaims amidst the nations, saying: By God! That which was treasured in God's knowledge and inscribed in His perspicuous Book...hath been revealed.  BH08041

And I have manifested myself only by Thy command and have desired it only for Thy remembrance and praise. Thou art the One Who knoweth what is within my soul   BH07677

Close not the gates of divine knowledge to those who dwell in the realm of contingent being. Be thou ever speaking in the name of thy Lord, the All-Merciful.   BH03986

When he came to it, he was called from the right side of the valley, in the blessed spot, from the tree: 'O Moses! Verily, I am God, the Lord of the worlds.'   BB00289

Thus hath spoken the Tongue of Grandeur when He was imprisoned in this land which hath been named with the most excellent names in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH06174

This is the Day wherein the All-Bountiful came riding upon the clouds - to this beareth witness the Mother Book which speaketh before the faces of all peoples.  BH02910

And as I was beholding the direction of His Cause, there was revealed in this Manifestation that which hath caused every witness and the witnessed to tremble.   BH02168

Today this word was heard from the Blessed Tree: "Blessed is the servant who has inhaled the fragrance of My garment and clung to the hem of My loving-kindness"  BH11147

In My Name, the Rememberer and the Remembered!...there is none other God except Me...My horizon...My countenance...My praise...My throne...My call...My bounty.   BH08612

The verses have been sent down, the clear proofs have appeared, and the Light of the Cause hath dawned from the horizon of power, and the Call hath been raised   BH05895

In this Day therefore I bear witness unto My creatures, for the witness of no one other than Myself hath been or shall ever be worthy of mention in My presence.  BB00001

Verily the Book itself proclaimeth and saith: "O people! The All-Bountiful hath come upon the clouds. Behold ye the countenance of God, the Lord of all worlds!"   BH08666

Verily, from the heaven of the Unseen He calleth thee and giveth thee glad tidings of this Remembrance which God hath made the Dawning-Place of all remembrances.   BH07151

Do ye not behold the effulgences of the Sun of My Cause? Be fair, by God, and follow not every ignorant one who hath turned away from God, the Lord of lords.  BH06008

We have made the earth other than the earth - ponder ye upon it and upon that which hath grown therefrom through My Name, the Planter, the Mighty, the Bountiful.   BH06893

By God! The Day hath come wherein He Who conversed upon Sinai speaketh forth verses that neither the veils of the people nor the clamor of the lands can withhold.   BH08045

O My handmaiden, My handmaiden! Rejoice thou in that the Wronged One remembereth thee from His prison, and calleth upon thee with both His outward and inner tongue  BH09740

In it the Temple of Baha was established upon the Throne of Eternity, and the Face shone forth from the horizon of the Beginning with wondrous and glorious lights.   BH01459

Were it not for the Glory (Baha), who would call out before all humanity? And were it not for Him, who would manifest the Truth before the faces of the rulers?   BH02359

The gaze of the Wronged One hath been directed towards thee, and He hath sent down for thee that which God hath made a sign to the lands and a token to His servants.  BH04511

Today the very essence of proof proclaims "Verily, the All-Merciful has come!" and all atoms bear witness to the Divine Form established upon the Most Great Throne.   BH03576

This is a Book We have sent down in truth, as a mercy from Us to those who have attained unto the days of God and have turned with their hearts to His noble station.   BH05477

My Most Exalted Pen beareth witness that verily I am the Wronged One... I bear witness unto him who hath turned towards My countenance that he hath turned towards God   BH08883

We have ordained for Our own Self what hath befallen Us, and My Soul beareth witness to this, and with Us is a wisdom whereof none of Our near servants hath knowledge.   BH04731

The All-Merciful has come with clear proof, and the Dove of Utterance has warbled upon the branches: "Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Generous."   BH09922

"In this Day the Blessed Tree of Remembrance speaketh forth in the Kingdom of Utterance saying..." "To this the Tongue of Truth beareth witness from His exalted Station."  BH09210

And He Who speaketh in the realm of creation is indeed He through Whom the eyes of the world have been solaced and through Whom every wondrous Tablet hath been sent down.   BH09885

Thou didst manifest Thyself to all who are on earth through Thy name, the All-Merciful, and didst reveal Thy power and dominion to all who dwell in the realms of creation   BH08842

A mention from Us to him who hastened with his heart to the Qiblih of the world and testified to that which God had testified before the creation of the heavens and earth   BH08199


We have found from thy mention the fragrance of thy love for thy Lord, and We have revealed unto thee this Hidden Tablet whose verses were inscribed by My Most Exalted Pen   BH07257

Thus doth the Lord of Names command thee, for He is the Commander over what He willeth...Thus hath My firm and dominant Command been sent down from the heaven of revelation  BH06656

O people! By God, the Most Great Spirit of God speaketh in this Ancient Temple as He willeth and desireth. This is not from Me but from Him, would ye but perceive it.   BH01036

Verily, I am the Essence whereupon no name nor thing can fall, and I am the Gate of Remission, and there is no strength nor power save in God, the Most High, the Most Great.  BB00289

Remember God, the Most High, Who was in truth speaking and witnessed around the Fire in the Mother Book. God hath revealed unto me: Verily, I am God, there is no God but Me.  BB00002

Glory be to Thee, O my God! This is a day among the days of Thy Ridvan wherein one of Thy servants invited the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dayspring of Thy sovereignty   BH08256

We have sent forth the Criterion in the form of man. Verily He standeth before the Face, crying out and calling: "By God! The Truth hath come, yet the people understand not!"   BH01793


By God the Truth! The Book hath been sent down through grace, and the Trumpet hath been sounded - and it is My Most Exalted Pen, whereby We have both given and taken away   BH06672

We have heard that wherewith thou didst commune with God and We answer thee with that which diffuseth the fragrance of eternity through the duration of My most excellent Names.  BH02050

We have illumined the horizon of utterance with the sun of thy Lord's remembrance, the Most Merciful, that thou mayest give thanks unto God, the Lord of the seen and the unseen.  BH09450

He has testified to that which God testified before the creation of earth and heaven - that there is none other God but Him, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH03682

Through thee have We unloosed the Tongue of Utterance to expound all that hath been, and We shall again, by My sovereign power, unloose it to speak of that which is yet to come.  BH00007

Verily He is the One Who gazeth from the Most Exalted Horizon and speaketh from the Most Glorious Tongue that I am, verily, the One Who is worshipped in the last and in the first   BH10606

His word is the truth: I am but as a ring upon His finger and as a leaf among the leaves of His garden. Thus hath the matter been decreed by God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment.   BH09747

O friends! We see that He Who is mentioned mentions you from His Most Great Prison and We hear from Him that which has caused all things to quiver and the very pebbles to cry out   BH05182

We have heard thy call and have called out to thee from the Most Sacred Side of the Throne, and have remembered thee with a remembrance through which thy station hath been elevated   BH10320

The Balance hath been set up when the All-Merciful appeared with a Cause that caused all who are in the heavens and earth to swoon away, save whom God willed, the Lord of all worlds.   BH08941

O thou who makest mention of Me and art the herald of My Cause! Thou hast called all to My Self and informed all of My manifestation and My dawning and My effulgence and My sovereignty   BH08549

He is the Manifest, the Speaker, the All-Seeing. We make mention of him who hath made mention of Us, and We answer him who hath turned towards Us when My most exalted Horizon appeared.   BH00884

Had not My mercy preceded all things, I would have returned existence unto non-existence by reason of what hath befallen My loved ones - how much more by what hath befallen My Own Self!   BH11003

We heard thy call and drew nigh unto Thee from the frequented House. The heedless ones cast Us into prison, but God hath made it the Most Great Prison, despite every hateful polytheist.   BH04051

the Tree of Sinai upon the branch of this Manifestation doth proclaim the truth: "Verily, I am God, there is none other God but Me, and He is God, the One Who hath power over all things."  BH06945

The Lord of the worlds declareth in this utterance which hath been sent down from the heaven of the All-Merciful's will: "Act thou according to My commandments for the love of My beauty."   BH11017

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath come with the truth is, verily, the One promised in the Books of God and mentioned in the hearts of the Prophets.   BH05783

I testify, O my God, to Thy manifestation and Thy establishment upon the throne of utterance in the kingdom of creation, and to the mysteries of Thy Book and the lights of Thy countenance.  BH05491

The Servant hath departed from the City of God, and this We accepted for Ourself before the creation of the heavens and before the spirits were breathed into the temples of the worlds  BH02100

This is the Day wherein the Trump beareth witness unto Him Who conversed with God upon the Mount, and wherein the Bugle proclaimeth "The Kingdom is God's, the One, the All-Informed!"   BH01616

He is the One manifest above all things! O Muhammad-Quli! I bear witness unto that which the Wronged One hath testified: that there is none other God but Him, the Single, the All-Informed.   BH07418

"From the Burning Bush beyond the Radiant City upon the hallowed Spot of God's Command, the Mystery of God hath, by the power of the spirit, been witnessed, and speaketh in truth saying..."  BH03669

And thou, O Ahmad, say: In the Name of God and by God! Then pass over the Bridge as the clouds pass, in the name of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing, and be not of the patient ones.   BH01478


O people of earth and heaven! Hearken unto the call of God upon the Sinai of the Command from the Divine Lote-Tree that verily there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Generous.   BH07577

Hearken thou unto the call of the Wronged One. He hath heard thy cry and hath answered thee from the precincts of His Most Great Prison, as a token of grace from God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH08513

This tablet is in itself a hidden book, which hath from time immemorial been concealed in God's inviolable treasuries, and its verses traced by the Finger of Might, if ye but comprehend.  BH04695

At this moment the Mother Book hath, in the most exalted call, summoned the people of the earth and invited them to the Dawning-Place of Divine Revelation and the Source of heavenly ordinances.  BH11884

The eye of the Spirit hath not deviated; verily He is, at this moment, in the Most Sublime Prospect, calling you unto God, the Most High, the Most Exalted, from this Most Glorious Horizon.   BH05763

Cast aside every barking dog and hearken unto that which the Divine Lote-Tree uttereth amidst the Concourse of Creation: Verily there is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH07993

Among the people is he who objected, saying that He hath claimed divinity, and was nigh consumed with rage. Say: This is what was foretold unto you by Him Who announced to you this mighty Cause.   BH03539

The mirror of Jesus was entirely clear, so that it received the full light from the sun and was, therefore, the sun itself, and this was what Jesus meant when He said: "I and the Father are one."   ABU1184

Thus doth the Dove of the Cause warble between earth and heaven, that perchance thereby the servants of the All-Merciful may hasten to the shore of this bounty which hath been raised up in justice.  BH11712

Glorified is He Who hath sent down the verses in truth that He might guide thereby such servants as have been pervaded by the fragrance of faithfulness. He, verily, is the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH02870

The Tongue of the Ancient One hath given glad tidings unto all who dwell in the world of the appearance of the Most Great Name, and beareth witness before all nations that verily He is My very Self   BH08919

O peoples of the earth! The fragrance of the Revelation has wafted and the Tongue of Pre-existence has spoken in the Most Great Prison: "Verily there is no God but Me, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy."  BH06260

By thy life! Under all conditions We turn to God and make mention of Him in truth, in such wise that neither what hath occurred and will occur, nor what hath appeared and will appear, can hinder Us.   BH03858

Rejoice, O My handmaiden, then grieve, O My servant woman. As for the rejoicing, it is for My manifestation and My dawning and My effulgence and My exaltation and My radiance and My power and My glory  BH11004

Come, O My Pen! How art thou faring on this Day? Hath the wine of mystic knowledge intoxicated thee? At times We behold thee racing in the arena of divine knowledge, and at others moving and swaying.   BH09319

In My Name, the One burning with the fire of My love! Praise be to God Who hath manifested that which was hidden in His knowledge and caused all things to proclaim that there is none other God but He   BH05641

This is a Book from Us to him who was named Muhammad-before-'Ali, that he may testify in his being to that which God did testify before the creation of all things that there is none other God but Him   BH02905

Then did the Tongue of God speak in all things, saying: "Verily, I am alive in this horizon which hath appeared with truth and hath been named in the Concourse on High by the name of the Most Exalted"  BH01828

To this beareth witness My Manifest Tablet which the Lord of Eternity hath sent down that it might proclaim before the face of the world that there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the All-Praised   BH06259

The sight hath been snatched away and the moon hath been eclipsed when there appeared the Most Great Countenance and the Possessor of Destiny established Himself upon the throne of His Most Great Name.   BH08925

I have ever been all-encompassing, and all else encompassed. To this testifieth whosoever hath soared in the atmosphere of My knowledge and drunk the choice wine of My love from the chalice of My bounty.   BH04467

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath come upon the clouds is indeed the One promised in the Books and inscribed in the Scriptures of God, Lord of all the worlds.   BH04239

The Beauty of the All-Merciful has appeared - may the spirit of all who dwell in the realms of glory be sacrificed for Him! The countenance of the All-Bountiful has dawned from the horizon of possibility.   BH10348

O Second Letter of this Temple, betokening My name, the Almighty! We have made thee the manifestation of Our sovereignty and the dayspring of Our Names. Potent am I to fulfil that which My tongue speaketh.  BH00007


"I have caused the living waters to issue from the Kawthar of My mouth, even as I have concealed the living sun behind My hair. In truth, within the darkness of My hair I have hidden the light of My beauty"  BH11210

The Supreme Pen hath testified and doth testify at all times that He is the Single One, the One, the Powerful, the Strong, the Triumphant, the Mighty. He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He desireth   BH09637

O peoples of the earth! Hearken unto that which none hath heard before. By God! The One Who called out from the Mount now speaketh, and He Who spoke forth at the ascension recounteth unto you what befell Him  BH07100

Verily there is no God but I, the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing." I testify that Thou didst arise with the Cause and didst manifest that which was hidden from time immemorial and treasured within Thy knowledge.   BH04211

From Our delight/Drops of a light/Cloud Are drifting down,/And from Our song/Love's mystery Is drifting down...From the face of God, the jeweled sun hath dawned...The day of "I am He" hath shone from out Our face  BH03230

This is a Book from the Prisoner to those who have believed in God, the King, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting. They shall inhale the fragrances of the Youth from the words of their Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing   BH05167

We have heard thy call and have called out to thee from the shore of the Most Great Sea, that the rapture of the Call may seize thee and strengthen thee to make mention of thy Lord, the Most High, the Most Glorious   BH03867

We have ordained for them the laws of religion, yet they turn away therefrom. The Word of God hath appeared and the Ancient Beauty hath been established upon the Most Great Throne, yet most people do not understand.  BH03371

By Him Who speaketh within my breast! Were all who are in the heavens and earth to turn today unto God, He would teach them from the wonders of His knowledge that which would make them independent of all the worlds.  BH00006

The Book speaks with the tongue of revelation at this Most Great Scene - this station round which circle the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the cities of eternity and the inhabitants of the Most Exalted Kingdom  BH09989

This is a Book from Us to him who hath attained the lights of the Countenance and heard the call of his Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, that it may be unto him a glad-tiding from Our presence and a mercy from Us.  BH11686

This is the Day wherein God walketh and speaketh, did ye but know it, and this is the Mother Book calling out in the most exalted voice from the horizon of the heaven of the prison of Akka, yet ye perceive it not.  BH02093

This is indeed Ali Who hath appeared once again in this most pure, most manifest, most luminous Beauty, and Who speaketh the truth in the heaven of immortality and the kingdom on high, if ye be of them that hear.   BH00358

"O Pen! Days have passed while thou wert silent, uttering neither remembrance nor exposition. Because of this the realities and divine explanations have lamented. Revive all things once again through thy sweet melody"   BH01192

This is a Book from this Youth to all who are on earth: Worship none but God, the King, the Most High, the Most Great. Thus hath the Command been sent down in all the Tablets from the presence of One mighty and powerful.   BH06776

At this time, the Branch of the Divine Lote-Tree was present and made mention of you. Therefore We make mention of you with a mention whose fragrance has diffused the sweet-scents of love and affection among the servants.  BH11040

The Nightingale of Sinai calls out: "To Me, O people of immortality!" The Nightingale of faithfulness calls out: "To Me, O people of fidelity!" The Hoopoe of the divine presence warbles: "To Me, O companions of guidance!"   BH04474

We speak naught except by God's command, and breathe naught save that which returneth unto Him, and We command no one save that through which are manifested the attributes of his Lord's Cause, the Mighty, the Impregnable.   BH01399

The Lord of Names makes mention of you from this Prison wherein has been established the throne of your Lord, the Most High, the Most Great. He has come for the life of the world and has called all to the Most Great Ocean.   BH07916

This is the Day whereon the door of generosity hath been opened unto the world, inasmuch as the Most Great Name hath been established upon the throne of bounty and hath summoned all unto God, the Almighty, the All-Powerful.   BH05962

This is the Day wherein the Hidden hath appeared and the Treasured One hath emerged and the King hath spoken in the Most Great Prison - the Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Omnipotent, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.   BH07305

He does what He wishes by His sovereign authority and decrees what He wills. He is, verily, the Omnipotent, the Powerful. His Cause is not limited by the bounds of idle fancies nor by the vain imaginings of the doubtful ones.   BH01967

He hath arisen in His name, the Self-Subsisting, amongst His servants and hath spoken that which hath caused the inhabitants of the cities of names to tremble with fear, save those whom God, the Lord of existence, hath willed.  BH10823

We have caused thee to hear the melodies of the Dove which warbleth at all times upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-Tree. Glorified be thy Lord, the Most High! And now We cause thee to hear once again, as a bounty from thy Lord   BH10022

We have been with you at all times. At times you turned to holy glances when the attraction of the Cause took hold of you from the presence of One mighty and powerful, and at times you were heedless - such is the nature of man.  BH01249

"A remembrance from the Prisoner unto him who hath turned towards the Countenance, that this remembrance may draw him nigh unto a station wherein the Tree uttereth: There is none other God but He, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise"   BH06165

Through My fire the world was set ablaze, and through My light every sincere and informed one was guided. Through My call every learned one was attracted, and through My word all who are in the heavens and earth were thunderstruck.  BH04025

We have chosen thee and made thee a servant unto My Self, that thou mayest be among those who rejoice. We have accepted what thou hadst, and this is of My latter bounty, that thou mayest give thanks unto thy Lord, the All-Bountiful.  BH11183

By My majesty and glory, the Voice that riseth from the mouth of Baha is not on account of what hath befallen Him at the hands of the wicked ones. Rather, it riseth solely out of His longing and yearning to make mention of thy Lord   BH08504

He has appeared in truth from the Dayspring of God, the Mighty, the Powerful, and has spoken in truth in the heaven of eternity and the kingdom of creation that "I am God, there is no God but Me, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy."   BH02540

He speaketh not out of desire, if ye be of them that understand. Say: Even were He to speak from desire, it behooveth you not to object to Him, O ye possessed of insight, for in His desire is seen naught save the desire of God   BH08003


Verily there is no God but Him, the All-Powerful, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Mighty, the All-Wise...We chose the Interlocutor aforetime and sent him to Pharaoh and his chiefs with nine clear signs, and I am verily the Sender  BH04942

In reality Jesus did descend from heaven, because he was a heavenly man, although he was born from the womb of his mother Mary. That is why he said he came from heaven, and that he was in heaven, as related in the Gospel of St. John.  ABU0076

Give thanks to the Aim of the world that He remembered thee in the Most Great Prison, and arise with complete steadfastness in the Cause of the Lord of all names. Verily He heareth and seeth, and He is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH05613

In My Name, the One dawning from the horizon of the Kingdom of Utterance! The breezes of utterance have wafted, the fragrance of divine knowledge has been diffused, the sun of unity has shone forth, and the moon of oneness has appeared.   BH01589

Glory be to Him Who hath adorned the Tablet of Creation with the ornament of the Point adorned with the letter "H", through which was manifested the Hidden Book that had been treasured within the Kingdom of Knowledge from time immemorial.  BH02868

He is God! My hair is My Veil whereby I conceal My Beauty, that haply the eyes of the non-believers among My servants may not fall upon it. Thus do We conceal from the sight of the ungodly the glorious and sublime beauty of Our Countenance.  BH11496

In the Name of God, the Most Holy, the Most Exalted! This is a remembrance from Us to one who was mentioned before Our presence and concerning whom Our Most Exalted Pen was moved to write, in such wise that the pages were filled therewith.   BH00898

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath come with the truth is the Lord of all worlds and the Most Great Name through Whom was revealed that which lay hidden in God's knowledge and concealed from the eyes of men.  BH01100

Verily mention at times thou beholdest it in the Tablets, and at times it descendeth from the heaven of utterance, and at times it walketh in such wise that the Ancient Being appeared in the world in His hallowed and wondrous ornament.   BH08801


This indeed is the Essence of Oneness in the Most Exalted Assembly, and the Reality of Divine Unity in the Kingdom of Eternity, and the Mystery of Divinity in the Kingdom of Names, and the Ancient Beauty in this radiant and noble Temple.   BH02048

The Remembrance of God from the Divine Lote-Tree upon the glowing Spot hath been raised up in truth, and every people heareth from it that there is no God but Him, and He Who hath come with the truth hath been the Guardian over all the worlds.   BH01810


O Ali! The Dayspring of the Cause addresseth thee in most wondrous utterance. By God! Wert thou to be present before the Throne and hear it from the Tongue of grandeur and power, thou wouldst sacrifice thy body, then thy spirit, then thy very self   BH02443

Verily, I am God's servant among you. He hath sent Me with the truth to manifest His Cause. Every atom beareth witness to this, as doth this hidden Pillar Who hath borne afflictions in manifesting God's Cause and hath cast behind Him all creation.   BH01390

We found thee loving Us, wherefore We have remembered thee, and We heard thy call and therefore have called out to thee, and We saw thy turning to Us and therefore have turned toward thee from this Spot which God hath made the Dawning-Place of lights.  BH07727

The Day of God hath come. The Throne of Divine Utterance hath appeared at the heart of contingent being, and the Speaker of the Mount is seated thereon. The river of mercy floweth from the right hand, and the banner of authority is raised on the left.  BH00333

The Divine Lote-Tree calleth out to its leaf, and the Lord to His handmaiden: Behold the bounty and generosity of God! Verily, He hath remembered thee from within the Most Great Prison with that which hath attracted the hearts of them that are sincere.  BH04821

When the Dawning-Place of God's Revelation and the Dayspring of His inspiration arrived, He established Himself upon the throne of utterance and revealed unto thee that which hath perfumed the whole of creation with the fragrance of His loving-kindness.  BH06451

The Wronged One beareth witness that He is verily the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling, Who hath appeared from the horizon of the Known and speaketh before the faces of all peoples: "There is none other God besides Him, the Mighty, the All-Knowing."   BH09899

This is a Day wherein the Tree uttereth: "There is none other God besides Me, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting." He it is Who hath spoken and caused all things to speak in praise of His Own Self, the One Who dominateth over all that is seen and unseen.  BH08478

After Me you shall hear no verses. This statement makes clear the station of mirrors and their verses, assuming submission. Likewise He says - exalted be His mention: If a mirror claims to be the sun, it is known to the sun that it is but its reflection.  BH04610

Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Generous. Say: Through My appearance that which was hidden hath appeared, and through My call all things have spoken even as the Tongue of God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, hath spoken.   BH04215

I have manifested Myself to all servants - among them are those who have inhaled My fragrance and attained the ocean of My presence, and among them are those who turned away by following those who clung to vain imaginings and hesitated in this Great Cause.  BH03523

We have made mention of every name that was in the Book as a bounty from God, the Revealer of verses. Give thanks unto God for that He hath turned toward thee from the direction of the Prison and hath revealed for thee that which shall never be exhausted.   BH01516

Is there any soul who would dare say 'why' or 'wherefore' or speak in Our presence? Nay, by My mighty and knowing Self! All necks are humbled before My glorious and beauteous countenance, and all heads are bowed before My mighty and impregnable sovereignty.  BH00076

"Thou beholdest, O my God, the Day-Star of Thy Word shining above the horizon of Thy prison-city, inasmuch as within its walls He who is the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Day-Spring of the light of Thy unity hath raised His voice and uttered Thy praise."  BH05715

In the Name of Him Who is the Most Holy, the Most Glorious! Exalted is He Who sendeth down verses from the Kingdom which was illumined with the lights of the Throne, and Who speaketh in the Lote Tree of Revelation that perchance men may find a way unto Him.   BH01172

The Prisoner, pacing in His dwelling, hath revealed for thee that from which the fragrance of God's tender mercy, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed, is diffused. Thou hast attained unto My remembrance from the Pen of My Will in My wondrous and glorious Book.  BH11515

In the name of Him Who warbleth upon the branches! O My name! Hearken unto My call from around My throne that I may acquaint thee with an ocean that hath no shore and whose depths no swimmer hath reached. Verily, thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Bountiful.  BH01325

Verily the Tree maketh mention of one of its leaves, and remembereth it as a bounty from God, the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting, that it may be drawn by the utterance of the All-Merciful to the Most Exalted Horizon and be brought near to the Praiseworthy Station.  BH09230

His Holiness the Herald, that is to say the Primal Point, states at the beginning of the Bayan: "He Who speaketh in every condition, verily I am God, there is no God but Me, the Lord of all things, and all besides Me are My creation. O My creation! Worship ye Me."   BH00654

And I recite concerning Myself, night and day, and then concerning God's faithful servants: "Verily I am God, there is no God but I, the All-Knowing, the All-Powerful." And if thou willest: "Verily I am God, there is no God but I, the Sovereign, the Inaccessible."   BB00210

At one time it speaks forth from the Mount, at another from this Spot which has been illumined by the lights of Revelation, and at yet another time it speaks in the form of the Pen: "The Promise has come, and the Lord of all being is seated upon His mighty throne."   BH07742

O 'Ali-Akbar, upon him be the Glory of God! He is the Manifest, the Speaker, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise! Glorified be He Who hath appeared with the truth and hath come from the heaven of utterance with a mighty proof, and hath spoken before the faces of the world.   BH01336

My remembrance is of My handmaiden who was attracted by My verses, who turned to My horizon, who soared in My atmosphere, who drank the choice wine of My love and the Salsabil of My tender mercy and the Kawthar of My grace that prevails over all who see and are seen.   BH06169

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who speaketh is indeed the One Who conversed with Moses from the Burning Bush, and the Speaker on the night of the Ascension through the Hidden Mystery, and the Desired One unto Whom the Spirit ascended.   BH01409


Moreover as one of the perfect qualities of the Divinity is Fatherhood, therefore we give him the title of the Father; because the Manifestation of God is like unto a clear mirror in which is reflected the rays of the Sun of Reality and one of these rays is Fatherhood.   ABU1498

Praise be unto Thee for having moved the Pen of the Most High to make mention of him whom Thou didst desire, while confined in the Most Great Prison. By Thy glory! This grace cannot be equaled by whatsoever existeth in the kingdom of creation and the realm of invention.   BH05518

He speaks, and His word is the truth: Blessed is he and joy be unto him, for he has attained unto My service throughout all his days. Verily We make mention of him and My handmaiden and My leaf who has attained unto her relationship to My Cause, the Mighty, the Wondrous.  BH04472

Verily We have made thee of the best of women and have granted thee a station before the Face to which no woman has ever attained. Thus have We showered Our Grace upon thee and granted thee this precedence as a Favor on the part of the Possessor of the Throne and the earth.  BH04128

Listen to the melodies of the Leaf of Eternity in the Lote-Tree of the utmost boundary and say with the accent of the Dove: Glorified be my Lord, the Most High! This is He Who remembers you to the glorious and most luminous homeland - say: Glorified be my Lord, the Most High!  BH11879

Men asked, 'Why does He say He is of God?' If they had understood the reality of Christ, they would have known that the body of His humanity was a cloud that hid His Divinity. The world only saw His human form, and therefore wondered how He could have 'come down from Heaven'.  ABU0735

By My life! Thou wert present before the Face... By God's life! There is nothing like unto them in all creation. To this beareth witness My Pen, and beyond it My Tongue which speaketh in the kingdom of Mine utterance that there is no God but I, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH07365

O Tongue of this Temple! We, verily, have created thee through Our name, the All-Merciful, have taught thee whatsoever had remained concealed in the Bayan, and have bestowed upon thee the power of utterance, that thou mayest make mention of Mine exalted Self amidst My creatures.  BH00007

O people, fear ye God and follow not every sinful infidel. Have ye forgotten God's sovereignty and His power, and God's might and His glory in the days when He stood forth by His own Self and revealed His Cause between the heavens and the earth, whereunto ye were witnesses?   BH01012

Today certain followers of the Bayan who fancy they have rent asunder the veils and attained their ultimate goal have balked at the blessed words "Verily I am God" which have issued forth from the Dayspring of Revelation, nay rather, because of these words they have turned away.   BH00388

This is the Day whereon the Book speaketh, wherein the Sun discourseth, and wherein the Moon proclaimeth: "Dominion belongeth unto God, the Lord of the Throne and of the dust! Glory be to God, the Lord of all creation! And sovereignty is God's, the Lord of both the past and future!"   BH01495

Be thou aflame with the fire of My love, soaring in My atmosphere, holding fast to My cord, clinging to My robe, stirred by My will, turning thy face toward My face, speaking in My praise, and acting according to that which hath been sent down in My perspicuous, mighty and wise Book.   BH05218

O Warbler! That which thou didst send to the servant who standeth before the Throne hath been presented and hath won the attention of the Wronged One in this glorious and noble station. We answer thee with this Tablet - verily thy Lord is the All-Merciful, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH10736

O concourse of divines! By God, the Promise has come to pass and He Who conversed on Sinai is seated upon the throne of Revelation, calling out in the most exalted voice between earth and heaven: "The Kingdom has come - the Kingdom is God's, the Lord of what was and what shall be!"   BH04270

This is the Dawn whereat the hidden Essence and the unseen Treasure were made manifest, the Dawn whereat the Ancient Beauty seized the cup of immortality with the hands of glory and, having first quaffed therefrom, proffered it unto all the peoples of the earth, high and low alike.   BH01010

In the Name of Him Who calls out in the midmost heart of contingent being! Praise befits the Lord of existence and the Sovereign of the invisible and visible realms, Who with the banner of He doeth whatsoever He willeth shone forth and appeared from the horizon of the blessed word except.  BH01764

By God! This is God's Day wherein none is mentioned save Him. He is verily the One Who speaketh in the Most Great Prison and calleth betwixt earth and heaven. No Prophet there was who did not herald this Day to all creation, and no Book exists but was adorned with this Most Great Name.  BH00329

He is the Wronged One. The Most Exalted Pen beareth witness unto him who hath turned unto God, the Lord of all beings, and hath quaffed the choice wine of steadfastness from the hands of bounty and bestowal. He, verily, is the All-Witnessing, the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH11076

The Pen testifies that there is none other God but Me, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. The Tongue testifies that there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Beloved. God bears witness to that which My Tongue has testified, that there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Invincible.   BH09412

The Book speaketh the truth and testifieth to that which the Ancient Beauty hath testified in the Most Great Prison and in this exalted station, that there is none other God but Him, Who hath power over all things. He doeth what He willeth through His sovereignty and ordaineth what He pleaseth.   BH07441

They have passed, by the Lord of what was and what shall be! One saith: Where are the earthquakes? Say: The tribes have been seized while ye were slumbering. When the standards of the signs appeared with clear proofs, the earth was shaken and the mountains crumbled, while ye were heedless.   BH03022

I, verily, have not sought to extol Mine own Self, but rather God Himself, were ye to judge fairly. Naught can be seen in Me except God and His Cause, could ye but perceive it. I am the One Whom the tongue of Isaiah hath extolled, the One with Whose name both the Torah and the Evangel were adorned.  BH01042

The Beauty of the Unseen hath appeared through grace, and the Tongue of the Unseen speaketh the truth. O people! Behold ye My Beauty in His Beauty, then His signs in My signs, then His Manifestation in My Manifestation, then His dawning in My dawning, then His effulgence from this manifest horizon.   BH01482

Through Him the mysteries have been revealed, the rivers have flowed, the lights have shone forth, and the trees have spoken. By God! He Who was mentioned in the hearts of the Prophets and inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen hath come. He is the Dawning-Place of verses and the Manifestation of clear proofs.  BH07141


In the next Resurrection, this Indivisible One Being is naught but the very being of Him Whom God shall make manifest, Who, under all conditions, proclaimeth: I, in very truth, am God! None other God is there but Me, the Lord of all things, and all besides Me are only My creation. Then adore Me, O My creation!  BB00001

We have forsaken palaces and chosen the most desolate of houses, adorning it with the ornaments of the Kingdom. Exalted is this palace which God hath made the Manifestation of Destiny and the Greatest Scene, wherein the Ancient One hath been established upon the throne of His Great Name with majesty and glory.   BH07480

"O servant in attendance! We make mention of him who hath acknowledged and confessed the oneness and singleness of God and that which was uttered by the tongues of His Messengers and chosen ones. We have found from him the fragrance of the love of God and make mention of him with that which nothing can equal."   BH01040

I testify that Thou dost not withhold those who seek Thee from the ocean of Thy grace, nor those who desire Thee from the sun of Thy bounty. Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having caused me to be attracted by Thy verses, whereupon I hastened to the shore of the ocean of Thy nearness and heard Thy sweetest call  BH05404

"My face hath been set towards Thy face, and my face is, verily, Thy face, and my call is Thy call, and my Revelation Thy Revelation, and my self Thy Self, and my Cause Thy Cause, and my behest Thy behest, and my Being Thy Being, and my sovereignty Thy sovereignty, and my glory Thy glory, and my power Thy power."   BH09399

I am indeed the Doer by God's leave in the two Points of the First Ones and in the two Centers of the Last Ones. And I am the Fire in the upright Alif between the two seas. I drowned Pharaoh and Ad and Thamud by God's leave in one of the two gulfs, and I saved Noah and Abraham and Moses in one of the two seas.  BB00002

He is the Hearer, the Beholder, and the Answerer. O thou who art remembered before My face, inscribed in the Book, and gazing towards the horizon of Revelation in the final return! Hear the call from the direction of grandeur, to the right of the luminous spot: Verily, there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Bestower.  BH00043

O peoples of the earth! By the True God, the Call hath been raised from the prison of Akka - a Call in whose yearning to hear it countless souls have perished. My Tongue in this glorious and wondrous station beareth witness to this. This is the Day wherein the ocean of God's utterance, the Lord of all worlds, hath surged.  BH09331


The Lord of Names declareth: The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Lord of all the worlds. And the Lord of Creation declareth: Glory be unto God, the Object of the mystics. And the Divine Lote-Tree proclaimeth: He Who conversed on Sinai hath come, speaking: Verily there is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH10489

The Ancient Countenance hath turned toward thee from this glorious horizon. The servant present before the Throne desired to write unto thee. We said: Take up thy pen, for verily We have ever been One Who revealeth, sendeth down, and transmitteth, and I am the Sender, the Revealer, the Transmitter, the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH03868

God is My witness! I have wished nothing whatever for Myself. What I have wished is the victory of God and the triumph of His Cause. He is Himself a sufficient witness between you and Me. Were ye to cleanse your eyes, ye would readily perceive how my deeds testify to the truth of My words, how My words are a guide to My deeds.   BH00657

Verily the sun circleth round My will, and the moon hath drawn nigh and declared: Praise be unto Thee, O Beloved of those who dwell in the heavens and on earth! And all things proclaim: Praise be unto Thee, O Beloved of the world and Educator of the nations, for having manifested Thyself, exalted Thy Cause, and spoken before all faces.  BH08479

O peoples of the earth! By God, the fragrance of the Garment has been diffused, the horizon of the Manifestation has been illumined, and the Speaker of the Mount has spoken, yet most of the people remain heedless. My Most Exalted Pen calls out to them night and day - to this the Lord of all beings bears witness in this perspicuous Book.   BH09703

Thus hath the Pen of inner meanings spoken upon the branch of utterance, as a command from the All-Merciful Who hath come with an authority that they who are endowed with fairness and justice cannot deny. To this testifieth He Who speaketh in all things: There is none other God but Me, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH04831


Write: Hast thou not heard that My proof is My Being, My evidence My Self, My testimony My Revelation, and that which floweth from My Pen is the path to My knowledge, wherewith none shall attain except those who have detached themselves from all things and have passed by this world and whatsoever hath been created therein as a fleeting cloud?  BH00814


O Pen of the Most High! Bear thou witness, in thine own self, that verily He is God and that there is none other God but Me, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Bear thou witness, then, by thine own essence, that verily I am God and that there is none other God but Him, that all have been created at My behest and that all abide by My command.   BH00334

And He Who speaketh with truth is verily the Ocean of My Will and the Heaven of My Purpose and the Rain of My Grace and the Sun of My Loving-kindness and the Repository of My Revelation and the Dayspring of My Inspiration and the Dawning-Place of My Cause and the Treasury of My Knowledge and the Source of My Salsabil and the Fountain of My Kawthar   BH08286

He is the One Who standeth manifest, speaking before all faces. My Most Exalted Pen desireth to reveal unto thee the pearls of wisdom that lay hidden in its treasuries, to cause thee to hear the call of God, and to show thee the waves of the ocean of utterance in these days wherein He Who was hidden hath appeared with His Name, the Self-Subsisting   BH01666

Have ye found in that which was revealed unto 'Ali before Nabil aught that was not adorned with the ornament of My Name? Nay, by the Lord of all worlds! Were it not for My remembrance, the Bayan would not have been revealed, and were it not for My Self, the sun of exposition would not have shone forth from the horizon of meaning and utterance.   BH02532

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who speaketh with truth is verily the Tongue of My grandeur and the Dawning-Place of My glory and the Horizon of My favors and the Sun of My Will and the Heaven of My Purpose and the Pen of My Command and My Preserved Tablet and the Book of My Laws unto all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH10312

They say that the letter from the Bab to Yahya begins thus: 'From God, the Mighty, the Beloved, to God, the Mighty, the Beloved.' But this passage is also written at the beginning of the letter to Dayyan and to others. In Tablets revealed by the Blessed Beauty there are also many such passages. The intent is an address from the Manifestation to Himself.   ABU2573

Were I to recount unto thee, beneath countless veils of concealment, certain hidden mysteries, We now return to Our elucidation of the Books of old, that perchance thy feet may not slip and thou mayest receive with complete certitude the portion which We shall bestow upon thee of the billowing oceans of life in the realm of the names and attributes of God.  BH00012

And in this station wherein He hath been established upon the throne through His manifestation amidst all created things, He testifieth with His tongue and His limbs and every hair of His being that this is He Whom none among created things hath known, Who hath ever dwelt in the unseen of His Being, sanctified above the manifestations of names and attributes   BH00367

Thus did We counsel thee before, and now again, that thou mayest be of those who are assured. Say: This is My path, if ye would behold the path of God. This is My proof, if ye would heed the proof of God. Say: This is My testimony, if ye would be certain of God's testimony. Say: This is the path of God in the heavens and on earth, if ye desire to traverse it.  BH00011

Through God's grace and favor, the path exists and the way is evident, and the banner of unity has been raised in the most exalted station. Today the world is adorned, for the city of inner meanings is embellished with the anemones of divine truths, and the standard proclaiming Verily He is God has been planted upon the crimson spot situated in the white land.  BH00812

"The day-star of words, dawning above the horizon of the utterance of Him Who is the Lord of all names and attributes, hath, at this most blessed of hours, shone forth in all truth with the splendours of the light of God. The spirit of understanding, flowing from the Pen of the All-Glorious, hath, by virtue of His grace, been conferred upon all created things."  BH00379

O Ali! Mine ear hath heard that wherewith thou didst commune with God at a time when My tongue was speaking, saying that the remembrance, utterance and praise which appeared from the mines of God's knowledge, the dawning-places of His revelation and the treasuries of His mercy were for My Self, and I am the Hearer, the Beholder, the Answerer, the Mighty, the Wise.  BH00166

"Verily I am God, there is no God but I. I have created all things by My command, and verily Muhammad is My servant and My Messenger, and verily the Letters of the Living are My friends, and likewise the Twin Gates are My doors, for verily I am God, there is no God but I. I have created the heavens and earth by My command more swiftly than uttering the word 'Be.'"  BB00204

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that the One Who speaketh forth is the Speaker on Sinai, Who hath dawned above the horizon of revelation, and through Whom the mysteries have been unveiled, the stream have gushed forth, and all that was from everlasting concealed in the books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self Subsisting, hath been revealed.  BH02217

By God! I am the Most Great Manifestation in the most exalted Paradise, the Most Pure Beauty in the Most Glorious Horizon, the Most Evident Word at the Furthermost Tree, the Mighty Announcement at the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, the Hidden Countenance in the heaven of destiny, and the Mystery of God and His Command in the kingdom of origination.  BH00052

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath appeared is verily the Most Exalted Pen, the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, the Most Glorious Horizon, the Manifestation of the Unseen in the Kingdom of Creation, the First Exemplar among nations, the Temple manifested in justice, and the Light shining forth from the horizon of grace.   BH00556

O servants! Have ye not witnessed God's power through My mighty hand, and have ye not heard the holy utterances of the eternal Sovereign from My most pure and sacred tongue, and have ye not observed the all-embracing divine mercy from My boundless cloud of grace, and have ye not discovered the radiance of the Sun of inner meanings from the holy horizon of My Beauty?   BH01461

Naught is seen in My temple but the Temple of God, and in My beauty but His Beauty, and in My being but His Being, and in My self but His Self, and in My movement but His Movement, and in My acquiescence but His Acquiescence, and in My pen but His Pen, the Mighty, the All-Praised. There hath not been in My soul but the Truth, and in Myself naught could be seen but God.  BH00007

The Beauty of the All-Merciful from the horizon of the Divine Good-Pleasure, behind clouds of sorrow, did verily shine forth. Should the clouds be lifted, such commotion would arise in every soul that the servants would turn away from the Lord of all creation. For this reason did He take on a veil before His face, that the light might shine upon the righteous in measured portion.   BH00604

And whenever I became powerless before Him: "O my Lord! Have mercy upon my soul and leave me not in the hands of the wicked. You witness how these wolves have surrounded me, yet He does not hear from me and speaks in all things that 'I am God, there is no God but Me. I created all possible things for the knowledge of My Self and brought beings into existence to attain My presence.'   BH00447

My glory is My Name, and My manifestation is My Beauty, and My fortress is My love, and My proof is My Self, and My power is My signs, and My creation is My verses, and My sovereignty is My might, and My abode is My prison, and My Tablet is My messenger, and My Pen is My Command, and My party is My trust, and My fingers are My companions, and the Promised One is My meeting, the Mighty, the Wondrous.   BH11272

And in the station of "I am He," the Tree proclaimeth: "Verily, I am God, there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Praised One." And in the station of "He is I," the Tongue of Grandeur speaketh among creation: "He is God, there is no God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed." And in the station of "Verily He is He," He speaketh and saith: "There is no God but Him, the Most High, the Most Great."   BH01401

God! There is no God but I, and verily I have been standing at the right of the Path of Truth, and I witness those who pass over it - among them are those who pass like lightning from the clouds, and among them are those who pass upon their breasts, and among them are those who pass upon their feet, and among them are those who pause before it, and thus do We witness them and We are witness unto this.   BH00784


All words are equal in His sight - He exalteth them at one time and abaseth them at another, and He shall not be questioned about what He doeth. He is verily the Almighty, the All-Powerful. When He saith "I am but a servant," He thereby educateth the manifestations of servitude, and likewise observe regarding the station of the Bab and beyond that, until it culminateth in "I am God, the Sovereign, the Just, the Wise."   BH00627

God testifieth that there is none other God but I, the Rememberer, the Supreme, the Mighty, the Powerful. And I bear witness that I am God, there is none other God but He, the Rememberer, the Supreme, the Mighty, the Powerful. He, verily, hath testified in the heights of His Being to My Being, the Mighty, the Holy, the Luminous. And I, verily, do now testify in the exaltation of My Being to His Being, the Holy, the Mighty, the Luminous.   BH00367

In this station, They say: "Verily, I am God!" And indeed They speak the truth, for in this station Their words are the words of God, Their command is the command of God, Their decree is the decree of God. For They say: "Those words are spoken by the tongue of My might, and these other words are spoken by the tongue of My power!" And They say: "These words are spoken by the tongue of My grandeur, and those words are spoken by the tongue of My sovereignty!"   AB00345

The All-Merciful hath come with a sovereignty before which the hosts of earth and heaven cannot stand. This is attested by the Mother Book which speaketh in the final abode and proclaimeth: The appointed time hath come, and the Revealer of verses hath come from the horizon of might with a Cause before which have bowed the necks of those who established for themselves beneath the shadow of vain imaginings a station that was, from time immemorial, rejected through justice.   BH01341

Should any one of them be called upon to confront all the hosts of creation, he would assuredly prevail through the ascendancy of My Will. This, verily, is a proof of My power, though My creatures comprehend it not. This, verily, is a sign of My sovereignty, though My subjects understand it not. This, verily, is a token of My command, though My servants perceive it not. This, verily, is an evidence of Mine ascendancy, though none amongst the people is truly thankful for it  BH00007

Verily the Tree of the Cause speaketh within My breast, if ye would hear with the hearing of God. Say: By God! The Spirit of the Cause hath rent asunder from Me the veil of concealment and hath made Me manifest in truth - this was decreed by One mighty and powerful. Say: The Faithful Spirit speaketh in this Ridvan and calleth all to a holy and mighty Beauty, and giveth the people glad tidings of the meeting with God in this Spirit that gleameth from the horizon of grace.   BH01465

O people of the Bayan! Come, then tell Me truthfully: Who was it that spoke on Sinai to the Manifestation of the Revelation whom We named with Our name "He Who conversed with God" and sent unto him who disbelieved in God, the Lord of the Unseen and the Seen? If ye say the Tree spoke of its own accord, how then do ye deny this Call which hath been raised in truth? And if ye say He spoke in it, then He it is Who now speaketh: "There is no God but Me, the Forgiving, the Generous."   BH01401



