The Unseen cannot be known except through this Visible One   BH10124

None shall attain to His recognition save through His Dawning-Place of signs and Manifestation of evidences.  BH03113

His recognition cannot be attained except through recognition of the Manifestation of His signs and the Dawning-Place of His evidences  BH07585

Therefore, for souls there is no recourse except to the Holy Realities. They must turn to the Holy Manifestations of God, else they are worshippers of imagination, for the Divine Reality cannot enter human conception and whatever man conceiveth is mere imagination.   AB01391

Beyond this, there is no way for anyone to know Him, exalted be He. Thus have We revealed aforetime and now, if thou be of them that know. They who worship names instead of Me, these are indeed idolaters in the sight of thy Lord, the Almighty, the Powerful. Say: Do ye take names as lords for yourselves besides God and forsake the Most Excellent of Creators?   BH01326

The knowledge of the reality of the Divinity is in no wise possible, but the knowledge of the Manifestations of God is the knowledge of God, for the bounties, splendours and attributes of God are manifest in them. Thus, whoso attains to the knowledge of the Manifestations of God attains to the knowledge of God, and whoso remains heedless of them remains bereft of that knowledge.  AB00395

Hear the word of Him Who speaketh the truth, and dispute not the verses of God after their revelation, even should all beings command thee to do so, and withhold not thyself from His grace, even should both races of men prevent thee. Behold thy Lord's Cause with thine own eyes, then know it through thine own self. Even if all humanity and jinn should prevent thee therefrom, behold thou the Cause of thy Lord with thine own eyes, then know it through thyself and thy spirit, for the recognition of others cannot serve as proof for thee, nor can the rejection of all else stand as evidence against thee.  BH00004

The truth in that most exalted station and greatest prospect is the manifestation of Him Who has no name, no description, no exposition and no attribute. Essential realities are cut off from His presence and material things are prevented from addressing Him, for it is the station of the letter of the manifestation of the Essence in the countenance of pure abstraction and absolute presence  BB00036

The primary purpose of knowing the self in this station is to know the Self of God in every age and dispensation, for the Ancient Being and the Ocean of Truth hath ever been sanctified above the knowledge of all else. Therefore the knowledge of all knowers returneth unto the knowledge of the Manifestations of His Cause, and they are the Self of God amongst His servants, His Manifestation amidst His creation, and His Sign among His creatures. Whoso knoweth them hath known God, whoso acknowledgeth them hath acknowledged God, and whoso confesseth their truth hath confessed the signs of God, the All-Subduing, the Self-Subsisting.   BH00210


Knowledge of the Pre-existent One is knowledge of him, and knowledge of him is knowledge of the Pre-existent One, for in the contingent world there is nothing but knowledge of Him. To this refer the words of the Family of God: "Whoever knows you has known God," and the words of the Imam, peace be upon him: "We are the Most Beautiful Names of God, through which alone God can be known. Through us God is known and through us God is worshipped. Were it not for us, God would not be known, and were it not for us, God would not be worshipped."   BB00238


Thus all that the human reality knows, discovers and understands of the names, attributes and perfections of God refers to these holy Manifestations and leads nowhere else: "The way is cut off, and all seeking rejected."   AB00105

Thus did the Supreme and Most Exalted Sovereign establish for Himself a touchstone and criterion, that it might become known which soul has attained to the knowledge of God and which has remained deprived. The day when this divine touchstone appears is known as the Day of Distinction, for on that day the truthful are distinguished from the false, and the lover from the deceitful. This touchstone is the manifestation of the divine meaning in a new temple and novel attire. Thus, whosoever acknowledges and submits to that absolute meaning in this new and glorious attire is truthful in his cause; otherwise he was and shall remain a worshipper of words and fancies.   BH01099

By the True God! Should anyone today engage in the worship of all who are in the heavens and on earth, and acknowledge in his heart the Manifestations of justice, and perform with his limbs every good deed, it shall profit him not so much as a grain of mustard seed unless he enters beneath the shadow of the Divine Countenance, becomes assured of God's grace and mercy, and arises to serve God and assist His Cause to the extent of his ability. This indeed is a revelation from Us, and We are the Revealer thereof. Say: Do ye make mention of God with your tongues while denying His sovereignty? Woe unto you, O heedless ones! If God accepted the faith of nations in the past, will He accept your faith? Nay, by My true Self! He will accept naught from anyone save after they have loved Me, and this is indeed a mercy unto all the worlds.  BH00366

All that which creation hath heard and become enabled to know and comprehend hath been taken from that Source of divine wisdom and that Dayspring of celestial knowledge. For had that Primal Manifestation and that all-embracing Divine Word not spoken concerning the oneness of the Ancient Being and the Most Great Sea and His knowledge, none would have attained unto the recognition of that sanctified Being Who is the Cause and Purpose of creation. He is the Most Great Gate and the Most Straight Path, the Primal Point and the Most Exalted Word, the Divine Lote-Tree and the Ultimate End. Were it not for Him, no one would have known God and none would have become aware of Him. All the knowledge of those who know, the understanding of the sincere ones, the remembrances of those near unto God, and the descriptions of those who describe, return unto this station. For the recognition of His Self is the recognition of God, His commandments are God's commandments, His utterance is God's utterance, and His word is the Word of God. Whoso turneth away from Him hath turned away from God, and whoso turneth unto Him hath turned unto God. No one's knowledge and deeds are accepted save through His love and good-pleasure, His command and will. He is the Manifestation of 'He doeth whatsoever He willeth' in the kingdom of creation, and He is the fulfillment of that which the All-Merciful hath sent down in the Qur'an: "On the day when thy Lord shall come, or some of the signs of thy Lord."   BH00316
