"Thy Messengers who spoke not except by Thy leave and command, and moved not except by Thy will."  BH08968

He Who hath chosen for Himself no will or purpose, but hath chosen the will of the Intended One and the purpose of God   BH10459

The winds of the Divine Will move Me as they please. The Command is in His grasp; He doeth what He willeth through His sovereignty that encompasseth all lands.  BH08083

Thou art One, no partner hast Thou, and verily, O my God, Thou bearest witness that I have not penned a single letter, nor uttered any wisdom, nor engaged in any matter except by Thy leave and the decree of Thy Book.   BB00157

Every Manifestation is likened unto a bit of straw before a great wind. It is blown as the wind desireth, and has no power over itself. Thus each Manifestation is looking only to God, and takes no thought of Himself at all.  ABU0356

Not of Mine own volition have I revealed Myself, but God, of His own choosing, hath manifested Me. I was indeed as one dead when His behest was uttered. The hand of the will of thy Lord, the Compassionate, the Merciful, transformed Me.  BH00005

Say: By God! He was silent - God made Him speak. He was seated - the hands of power and might made Him arise. He was asleep - the breezes of the morn of Revelation that blew by God's will, the Lord of the Day of Return, awakened Him. Say: O people of the Bayan! He speaketh not of His own desire.  BH00333

Do ye imagine that the Cause is in my hands? Nay, by the Self of God, the Omnipotent, the Transcendent, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise! By God, were the Cause in my hands, I would not have manifested myself unto you for less than an instant, nor would I have uttered a word - and God is witness unto this and is all-knowing.   BH01052

O people! I was asleep when the Call awakened Me, and I was silent when the Truth, the Knower of the unseen, caused Me to speak and commanded Me to raise My voice in this atmosphere. This is not My crime, if ye be fair. Fear God, O people, and follow not the desires of every ignorant one, nor follow those who have denied the Witness and the Witnessed. BH11870
