
When I pray I turn my thoughts and face to the Blessed Perfection.   ABU3598

the good-pleasure of God is manifested through the Manifestation of His Cause   BH03201

He, verily, is God's balance among His servants and His path amongst His creation.  BH04752

For example, Jesus claimed, 'I am the way... no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.'  ABU1594

Whoso hath known Him hath known God, and whoso hath turned away from Him hath turned away from God   BH02346

through the Manifestations it becomes easier to understand His Spirit and therefore to draw near it   ABU2607

Consequently there are channels between God and man. These channels are the Holy Divine Manifestations.  ABU0549

None knew God except I and Ali, and none knew me except God and Ali, and none knew Ali except God and I   BB00344

He is the One through Whom mysteries were revealed, trees did speak, rivers did flow, and oceans did surge.   BH00405

Thus there is need for a connection and mediation so that its grace may be vouchsafed and Its Light may be received.  AB07638

He hath sent forth the Messengers and made them to be guides unto His creation and lamps of knowledge among His creatures.   BH07697

Whoso holdeth fast unto Him hath surely held fast unto the cord of My loving-kindness and clung to the hem of My generosity.  BH10353

I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers through whom Thy commandments and Thy laws were manifested   BH08384

Thou hast made meeting with the Manifestation of Thy Self to be meeting with Thee, and for this purpose hast Thou created all things   BB00052

He Who stood before all faces and spoke that which draweth the servants nigh unto the court of His glory and the horizon of His Cause.   BH04947

Where the ever-widening circle of man's knowledge meets the spiritual world a Manifestation of God is sent to mirror forth His splendour.  ABU3094

He is indeed the One through Whom every Prophet was raised up, every Messenger was sent forth, and every irrevocable decree was revealed.   BH02048

But for Him none would have attained to the knowledge of God or comprehended the loftiness of His unity and the sublimity of His singleness   BH09889

It was in reference to these bestowals that Christ said "The Father is in me and I am in you," like the reflection of the sun in pure mirrors  ABU1606

He Whom He hath sent under the name of 'Ali is His proof unto His creatures, His evidence unto His creation, and His link between the heavens and the earth.   BH08058

Every crystalline praise in its essence and every pure radiance in its abstraction points to the sublimity of thy praise and indicates the glory of thy exaltation  BB00349

And He has sent unto you one of His servants with an authority that was manifest in truth, to call you unto Him and draw you nigh unto the court of exalted glory.   BH06780

God has placed it between Himself and His creation so that through it may reach all that descends from God, and to it may return all that ascends from creation to God.  BB00003

Whoso turneth unto Him hath turned unto God from all eternity, and whoso turneth away - nothing shall be accepted from him, though he bring all that is in earth and heaven.  BH09956

Therefore the Objective Point of all is the Manifestation of God. And whosoever directs his attention in prayer to that Focal Point has directed his attention, verily, to God.  ABU1052

He sent to every city a Messenger from His presence to bring them glad tidings of God's good-pleasure and draw them nigh unto the seat of security, the holy and exalted sanctuary.   BH01079

Those who fear their Lord regarding the Gate, secretly and openly in truth - verily We have ordained for them by God's leave in the Hereafter forgiveness in truth and a great reward.  BB00002

Man - in order to know God - must turn his face to one centre and that is the Manifestation of the Omnipotent Will, whose heart is like unto pure mirror, whereon shines the Sun of Reality.   ABU1086

Attainment unto the Divine Presence can be realized solely by attaining His presence. Through His potency everything that hath, from time immemorial, been veiled and hidden, is now revealed.   BH00668

There are those that are by means of images, manifestations, mirrors, proofs and trusted guidance, for, if not through the intervention of an intermediary, the Ultimate Objective is not reached.  AB08501

As there must be an intermediary to transmit to earth the life-giving power of the sun, so there must be an intermediary to bring God to man, and this is found through the ever-present efficacy of the Holy Spirit.  ABU0904

He Who is everlastingly hidden from the eyes of men can never be known except through His Manifestation, and His Manifestation can adduce no greater proof of the truth of His Mission than the proof of His own Person.   BH03835

Man's guardian is God, but to assist man, God provides for him a Prophet. All nations and people are anxiously waiting an appearance of a Prophet. They wish Him to come, but when He does so, they do not recognize Him.  ABU0320

He then went on to demonstrate that such worship was the worship of a figment of the imagination and had no reality; we must worship God through something tangible and real to us, hence the role of the Manifestations.  ABU3640

Through Thee is God known, for He cannot be known without Thee, and through Thee is God unified, for He cannot be unified except through Thee, and through Thee is God, thy Lord, praised, for He cannot be praised except through Thee.  BB00349

Can anyone comprehend or behold the Eternal Essence? Say: Glory be to God! None can comprehend or behold Him, but whoso beholdeth the manifestation of His Self Who speaketh from His presence, verily beholdeth the meeting with his Lord.  BB00087

This is the countenance of God, if you would turn to it. This is the Temple of the Cause, if you would accept it. This is the horizon of Revelation, if you would behold it. This is verily the Dawning-Place of inspiration, if you would perceive it.   BH01000

Furthermore, many say, 'We have no need of divine Manifestations; we ourselves have direct communication with God.' They do not know that the divine Manifestations are the bright rays of the Sun of Truth and a means of educating the realities of man.  ABU1992

Were one to observe with illumined vision, all the movements of the Truth - whether standing or sitting, walking or resting, speaking or silent - would be seen as distinguished and sanctified above the deeds of all who are in the heavens and the earth.   BH01820

And if ye desire to attain unto the presence of God, then look ye unto Him Whom God shall make manifest, for ye shall find no path unto the Essence of God save the path unto Him Whom God shall make manifest, whereby ye shall find your path unto God, your Lord.   BB00234

If we wish to pray we must have some object upon which to concentrate. If we turn to God we must direct our hearts to a certain center. If man worships God otherwise than through his Manifestation he must first form a conception of God and that conception is created by his own mind.  ABU1729

To cling unto them is to cling unto God, the All-Glorious, and to hold fast unto them is to hold fast unto Him. Whoso hath known them hath known God, and whoso hath obeyed them hath obeyed God, and whoso hath turned away from them hath turned away from them hath turned away from God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.   BH01724

He sent to His servants the Dawning Places of His revelation, the Daysprings of His verses, and the Manifestations of His Self, making them His path among His creation and His balance among His creatures, until the paths culminated in the Most Great Path and the balance in the Most True Balance, through which prophethood and messengership were sealed.   BH01040

Then know, O thou who walkest in the path of God and gazest upon the beauty of God, that by the junction of the two seas is meant the sea of Prophethood and the sea of Divinity - that is, to reach the station wherein one attaineth unto the sea of Lordship which surgeth within itself, and every wave thereof proclaimeth that there is none other God but Him  AB00009

Then strive, O you who are certain of God, not to sever the cord that forms the connection between you and your Lord. This is mighty counsel, for none can draw nigh unto God except through this cord that moves between the heavens and earth. It is God's command among His servants, His means among His creatures, and His way among His creation, if you be of those who know.  BH02557

Verily I am God, there is no God but Me. No thing shall behold Me, and whoso desireth to behold Me, let him behold Him Whom God shall make manifest, for this is a path mighty and impregnable. Verily I am God, there is no God but Me. No thing shall know Me, and whoso desireth to know Me, let him know Him Whom God shall make manifest, for this is a Book sublime and exalted.  BB00005

For the recognition of His Self is the recognition of God, His commandments are God's commandments, His utterance is God's utterance, and His word is the Word of God. Whoso turneth away from Him hath turned away from God, and whoso turneth unto Him hath turned unto God. No one's knowledge and deeds are accepted save through His love and good-pleasure, His command and will.   BH00316

When the path was blocked and the quest proved futile, out of pure grace and as a manifestation of His greatest favor to humanity, He sent forth Books and Messengers that they might guide all creation to the highest horizon. These are the Manifestations of His Cause, the Dawning-places of His revelation, the Day-springs of His inspiration, and the Recipients of divine knowledge.   BH01175

When the path was cut off and proof failed and the guide lost the way on this path, Thou didst create a luminous being and a merciful reality and made it the sign of perfection, comprehensive of all attributes, and the word of majesty, gathering together the established realities in the highest degrees. It wholly reflects the identity of Thy essence and the conditions of Thy being.   AB01639

In every Revelation, all things shall know Our Self through him who maketh himself known, for these are they who know God their Lord, and these are they who draw proof of God their Lord from His names. And I shall cause My creation to know Me through the Manifestation of My Self, and whoso knoweth Him is indeed the first of My creation, and these are they who ascend in the ocean of Ridvan.   BB00292

Therefore, all these names and attributes belong to the Manifestation of God. In order to understand an object, we must become greater than that object and then give to it a name and define it with clear definitions; now when we come to God and its essence we can never know anything about It. We come in touch with that divine ineffable "Somewhat" only when we stand before the Manifestation.   ABU1392

And since the recognition of the Ancient Invisible Essence has been impossible, and God the Exalted has not commanded it for any - since its possibility in the contingent realm is impossible - He has enjoined upon all things, from the beginning that has no beginning to the end that has no end, to know the Sun of Truth which is the Mirror of His Essence and the Primal Will which is the Throne of His Manifestation.  BB00005

O people! This is the servant of God Who summoneth you unto God and guideth you to the paths of guidance, and imparteth unto you mysteries that were forbidden to the peoples of the world, and causeth the breezes of life to waft upon you, and sendeth forth the fragrant breaths of the All-Merciful from the City which God hath sanctified beyond all knowledge and which hath been veiled from the eyes of the mystics.  BH11721

Therefore, we are compelled to turn to the Dawning-Place of His Light, the Center of His Manifestation, the Rising-Point of His Signs, and the Source of His Words. Whatever praise, attributes, most beautiful names, and most exalted characteristics we mention, all return to this Described One. We have no recourse but to turn in all matters toward that known Center, the Promised Manifestation, and the Witnessed Dawning-Place.  AB00319

The wondrous praise, glorification, magnification and splendor rest upon the Mirrors of His names and attributes and the Manifestations of His power among all created things - those Essences Who, through the subtle favors of grace, guided those lost in the wilderness of ignorance to the fountainhead of knowledge and wisdom, and led those bewildered in the desert wastes of remoteness to the goal of nearness through the gems of wisdom and utterance.   BH00894

Thou seest all Thy creation and hearest those who call upon Thee on this most exalted night, each according to their own essence and how Thou hast manifested Thyself unto them. They turn toward Thee and worship Thee, yet exalted is Thy Being above accepting praise from one who knoweth not the Manifestation of Thy Countenance, or answering the prayer of one who is not assured of the Image of Thy Presence, for none can ascend unto Thee save through Him.   BB00109

Thus the reality of Christ, Who is the Word of God, undoubtedly precedes all created things in essence, in attributes and in distinction. Before appearing in human form, the Word of God was in a state of utmost sanctity and glory, abiding in perfect beauty and splendour in the height of its majesty. When, through the wisdom of the Most High, that Word shed its light from the pinnacle of glory upon the corporeal world, it was assaulted through the flesh.  AB01528

Assuredly the visible sun is but a sign of the splendor of that Daystar of Truth, that Sun Which can never have a peer, a likeness, or rival. Through Him all things live, move, and have their being. Through His grace they are made manifest, and unto Him they all return. From Him all things have sprung, and unto the treasuries of His revelation they all have repaired. From Him all created things did proceed, and to the depositories of His law they did revert.  BH00002

Know that in every Divine Revelation, the first principle of religion hath been that there is no God but God, and all the various aspects of every religion have been but aspects of this exalted Word. Know thou that the Manifestations of this Word have been, and shall forever be, alive from the beginning that hath no beginning unto the end that hath no end. And know that this Word is all things, since all things are but of two kinds: either of fire or of light.  BB00005

When He created contingent beings by His Command - and the contingent is unable to reach or ascend unto Him, and the Truth, glorified be He, is too glorious and great to be known by anyone, for knowledge is contingent upon conjunction, which is an attribute of contingency, while He, the Truth, is far more exalted and mighty than this - divine wisdom necessitated that He describe Himself to contingent beings, though His description is His origination from nothing.  BB00098

But O my God and Beloved of my heart, since Thou hast clipped the wings of understanding from soaring in the atmosphere of Thy holy oneness and hast prevented the hearts of those endued with certitude from ascending to the heaven of Thy mighty identity, Thou hast ordained for Thy servants to turn unto the Daysprings of Thy Cause in the temples of Thy name, and hast made their turning unto them as turning unto Thee, and their gaze upon their beauty as gazing upon Thy beauty.   BH02993

O ye shadows! Before the rising of the sun ye exist not; likewise, before God manifests the Sun of Truth in your religion, ye exist not. Consider how, from the Beginning that hath no beginning, God hath created His creation: how they were powerless to accomplish any matter save through the Messengers whom God raised up. Then, by His command, did they act, and He revealed unto them the Books, through their own tongues, and manifested therein His power, that ye might believe and be assured.  BB00003

Through us is God known and through us is God worshipped. Were it not for us, God would not be worshipped. The truth of this matter is that the contingent hath ever been contingent, unable to know its Lord, and the Eternal shall never descend to be known in Its Essence. He hath brought forth, through the outpouring of His power and the sovereignty of His creative Will, a sign in the realities of souls and horizons that they might be guided thereby to His knowledge and know Him through it.  BB00090

The Sacred Reality can never be imagined. People envision an illusion, consider it god, and worship it. However, the Sacred Reality is above all imaginings and sanctified beyond all thoughts, and the only path [to Him] is by way of the Manifestations. Beyond Them is naught but mere invention. "Whosoever believes in Them, believes in God; and whosoever separates himself from Them, has separated himself from God. Whosoever obeys Them, has obeyed God and whosoever denies Them, has denied God."   ABU0398

So we can say there must be a Mediator between God and Man, and this is none other than the Holy Spirit, which brings the created earth into relation with the 'Unthinkable One', the Divine Reality. The Divine Reality may be likened to the sun and the Holy Spirit to the rays of the sun. As the rays of the sun bring the light and warmth of the sun to the earth, giving life to all created beings, so do the 'Manifestations' bring the power of the Holy Spirit from the Divine Sun of Reality to give light and life to the souls of men.   ABU0773

Each religion teaches that a mediator is necessary between man and the Creator-one who receives the full light of the divine splendor and radiates it over the human world, as the earth's atmosphere receives and diffuses the warmth of the rays of the sun. This mediator between God and humanity has different designations, though he always brings the same spiritual commands. In one era he is called Abraham, in another time Moses, again he is called Buddha, another time Jesus, and yet another time Muhammad. They have all turned to the divine reality for their strength.  ABU0903

That Individual who in past ages was set above His fellows was gifted according to the virtues of His time. But in this age of splendours, this era of God, the pre-eminent Personage, the luminous Orb, the chosen Individual will shine out with such perfections and such power as ultimately to dazzle the minds of every community and group. And since such a Personage is superior to all others in spiritual perfections and heavenly attainments, and is indeed the focal centre of divine blessings and the pivot of the circle of light, He will encompass all others, and there is no doubt whatsoever that He will shine out with such power as to gather every soul into His sheltering shade.   AB00131

It is as difficult for the human mind to understand the Essence of God as for the watch to understand its maker, but through the Manifestations it becomes easier to understand His Spirit and therefore to draw near it. Otherwise, we must form for ourselves a mental conception of God, which may be a false one. The only test of its truth lies in the influence this conception has upon our lives; if it makes us kind and loving in our relations with our fellow-men, we may know it is a true one. In other words, it must produce in our hearts a love of God, which must be transmuted into love for man. ABU2607

As to orientation - since the reality of Divinity cannot be grasped by thought and understanding such that we might orient ourselves toward it, and since any reality we might conceive of and orient ourselves toward would be limited while Divinity is unlimited, indeed such conceptions would be mere imaginings - therefore, to free ourselves from mental imaginings we turn toward a mirror which is illumined and radiant with the effulgences of the sun. For gazing at the sun dazzles the eye and indeed cannot even be conceived. Is it possible for man to reach the sun? It is clearly impossible and unattainable. But reaching the mirrors is possible. The wise person does not strive to reach the sun, but rather observes the luminous effulgences of the sun in mirrors and becomes connected to them. AB00657
