
After this Wronged One repaired to Iraq, at all times was He engaged in the education of souls. The tongue spoke, the pen flowed, and gesture and sign were employed. In some instances, We illumined and moved creation through speech. At other times We were occupied in assisting the Cause of God through the pen. And occasionally We imparted the water of knowledge through the glance of Our eye and brow.  BH11717

But the supreme education is Divine Teaching. Through it the most ignorant become wise and the lowest are elevated to the loftiest heights. One day's education under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is better than ten years material training in the universities of the world. Baha'o'llah has said two steps are necessary for human development;--Material and Divine Education.  ABU2282

"They were the most ignorant of peoples and became the most learned. By virtue of that which He established they so progressed as to be singled out among all nations, and their fame spread to every land...Moses established laws and ordinances that conferred new life upon the people of Israel and led them to attain the highest degree of civilization at that time."  AB00855

Therefore man needs a teacher by whom his spiritual powers may be developed-that his lamp may be lighted. For this is the coming of the Messengers of God: that man may be educated, that his latent perfections may be brought forth and made manifest, that his spiritual and heavenly estate may be realised.  ABU0927

The Divine Manifestations are first and foremost teachers and promoters of truth... Moses was a divine teacher. He taught the divine verses, educated the Israelite people, delivered them from ignorance and abasement, and brought them to the highest degree of glory. He made them proficient in sciences and arts and prepared for them a complete civilization.  ABU1159

The third kind of education is that of the spirit. Through the breaths of the Holy Spirit man is uplifted into the world of moralities and illumined by the lights of divine bestowals. The moral world is only attained through the effulgence of the Sun of Reality and the quickening life of the divine spirit.  ABU0109

Through this education the drop may become a sea, the atom find the importance of the sun, the extinguished lamp become the brilliant star and the wild tree a fruitful one. Consequently, if we observe a person qualified with these characteristics, then he is the first Educator of mankind and the first instructor of the race.  ABU0692

The inhabitants of the world are like unto the children. The suckling babes must be nurtured properly so that they may attain to the age of adolescence. Darkness has surrounded the regions of the world. They must become illumined with this Light of the Kingdom.  AB01787

Training has a great effect, a profound influence. All the Prophets were sent for the purpose of education. In brief, education is the cause of life, education is the cause of salvation, education is the cause of exalted stations.  ABU1077

All the Prophets and Chosen Ones have been commanded by God, exalted be His glory, to water the trees of human existence from the Euphrates of refinement and wisdom, that there might appear from all that which God has deposited within them.   BH02956

The hand of training of the True Educator hath ever been and shall continue to be engaged in training whatsoever hath grown in the paradise of God.   BH09777

May He be their leader to the path of prosperity and success, refine them through divine education and Muhammadan virtues, and cause them to inherit eternal glory.  AB01994

in the school of truth learn lessons from the teacher of love  AB03926

Mankind is in the utmost imperfection. It is in need of education.  AB04351

you may acquire heavenly knowledge and receive divine moral education   AB05515

They are like unto mere children, and our Lord is the Educator of the world.   BH04228

He, in truth, is the Comforter and the Consoler, the true Educator and spiritual Master   BH07400

God willing, thou wilt become worthy. I am educating thee so that thou mayest become worthy.  ABU0314

This is one kind of teaching the souls through the inculcation of moral lessons by slow degrees.   ABU2390

In any case, people are observed to be like children - education is needed, and an educator is needed.  BH01190

give them to drink from the fountainhead of the knowledge of God, and nurture them in the cradle of care  AB06389

to open spiritual universities, to be instructed in the mysteries of the love of God by the Heavenly Instructor   AB02658

I beseech God that He may train you in the school of the Kingdom and assist you through the grace of the Divine Realm.  AB09385

Verily Thou art the Guardian of the world and the Educator of the nations.   BH10322

He is the Quickener of existence and the Educator of the seen and the unseen.   BH07527

They have sustained all their trials so that they may guide and educate people.  ABU3133

Through His name "the Educator of the World," the Divine Educator has educated all  BH10556

in the school of love, from the Divine Teacher, thou didst learn the lesson of affection  AB07430

And those rays are the delightful religion and precious teachings of that Educator of all created things  AB03234

in his own generation Christ was the Supreme Master and all the rest of mankind were taught in His Divine schools.   AB03068

Just as this phenomenal sun is the educator of the contingent beings, likewise the Sun of Reality is the Educator of the Ideal principles of life.   ABU2508

Human beings are like suckling babes; they must be nourished from the breast of knowledge and understanding and be cradled at the bosom of the Compassionate Educator   AB06989

Moses was a divine teacher. He taught the divine verses, educated the Israelite people, delivered them from ignorance and abasement, and brought them to the highest degree of glory.  ABU1159

For what purpose did God send Moses? For what object did Christ appear? What was the mission of His Holiness Mohamad? Why did His Holiness the Bab step forth upon the arena of the world? For what cause did His Holiness Baha'u'llah manifest Himself? The answer is: The appearance of all these divine men is for no other reason save the education of the world of humanity.  ABU0692

The reality of the Kingdom, which hath become manifest in this holy age at the center of all possibilities, is in truth a divine school, and the Educator of this heavenly school is the Blessed Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones  AB03816


Thus it is clear and evident that They are the first educators - They are universal educators, general educators, educators of the human world. And whoever engages in the education of children following Their teachings has followed the Prophets and holy ones of God.  ABU1031

the Dawning-Places of Light and Manifestations of the Revelation of the Forgiving Lord are wondrous, glorious Teachers and peerless, matchless Educators who, in the school of realities, educate these children with divine teachings and nurture them in the cradle of grace  AB00551

Moses was the teacher of God; He gave the teachings of holiness and educated the Israelites. He raised up the people from their degradation and caused them to be highly honoured. He taught them Sciences and Arts, trained them in civilization and increased their human virtues.   ABU1202

The prophets are sent to refresh the dead body of the world, to render the dumb, eloquent, to give peace to the troubled, to make illumined the indifferent and to set free from the material world all beings who are its captives. Leave a child to himself and he becomes ill-mannered and thoughtless. He must be shown the path, so that he may become acquainted with the world of the soul - the world of divine gifts.   ABU1016

"When the gloom of contention was spread over the Orient; when the nations of the East were steeped in enmity and hatred; when its religious sects shunned one another, denouncing one another as impure, and the people were ever engaged in war and the shedding of blood, Baha'u'llah appeared as the sun from the horizon of the East and summoned all to fellowship and harmony. He devoted Himself to their education and upliftment."  ABU0521

By the Father we mean the Educator. Just as the Father is tender to his children, likewise, the instructor teaches them. The function of the Father and the Educator is the same. The father gives the material life, the Educator gives the mental and the spiritual life. Therefore when we say Baha'u'llah is the Father, we mean he is an Educator - an spiritual Educator - or in other words, he is the Manifestation of divine attributes.   ABU1498

Some philosophers, who were among the divine philosophers, were capable of causing fellowship to exist among a certain number of people, although the fellowship was outward and temporary; but they were unable to establish universal education, but the Holy Divine Manifestations of God accomplished universal education. They united the East and the West. They improved the morals of man. They changed the thoughts of man. They transformed the conduct of man.  ABU1049

These holy Manifestations are the ideal Gardeners of human souls, the divine Cultivators of human hearts. The world of existence is but a jungle of disorder and confusion, a state of nature producing nothing but fruitless, useless trees. The ideal Gardeners train these wild, uncultivated human trees, cause them to become fruitful, water and cultivate them day by day so that they adorn the world of existence and continue to flourish in the utmost beauty.  ABU0033

The prophets of God are the real Instructors and Educators, so that they may train the morality of the people; so that the ignorant ones become wise, the blind ones receive sight, the deaf ones become hearing, the mute ones unstop their tongues, the pusillanimous become magnanimous, the earthly bird be transformed into the heavenly nightingales, the animalistic souls become divine, the imperfect attain to perfection and those who are captives of nature be released from its fetters.   ABU1207

So, also, with children, unless they have some one to rear them and care for them and cultivate their minds, they would become like wild animals. Everything in the world must have something or someone to care for it to enable it to live and grow. As the children need a teacher, so also, the souls need a Master. Who are these Masters who train the souls in spiritual knowledge? They are the Prophets, who teach in the school of GOD, and they are the greatest and highest of all teachers and instructors.   ABU1628

Our meaning is that the universal Educator must be at once a material, a human and a spiritual educator, and, soaring above the world of nature, must be possessed of another power, so that He may assume the station of a divine teacher. Were He not to wield such a celestial power, He would not be able to educate, for He would be imperfect Himself. How then could He foster perfection? If He were ignorant, how could He make others wise? If He were unjust, how could He make others just? If He were earthly, how could He make others heavenly?  AB00081

The founders of material civilization are the philosophers of the world and the educators of the spiritual civilization are the holy Persons of divine Manifestations. Therefore if human beings allowed themselves to stray far from material and spiritual educators, they would assuredly succumb to the lowest abyss of the animal world. Material civilization is like a globe and divine civilization as the light thereof. Material civilization may be likened to a body and divine civilization as the spirit. The globe needeth light and the body the spirit.  AB00287

He bore all these ordeals and catastrophes and difficulties in order that, in the world of humanity, a selflessness might become apparent. In order that the Most Great Peace might become a reality in the world of humanity. In order that waiting souls might become manifest as the very angels of Heaven. In order that Heavenly miracles might become perfected among men. In order that the faith of humanity might become adequate. In order that the priceless, precious bestowal of God in the human temple, the Mind of humanity, might develop to its fullest capacity.   ABU0198

This world is like unto an orchard, there must needs be a gardener. The world is a great school; we must have teachers.  Every moment today cries for a new spirit of baptism and reformation. Where is the universal Reformer? For the dispelling of these darknesses there must needs be a Light. Now investigate day and night so that you may discover the source of this Light! It is well-known that the powers of philosophy and politics are unable to unite various nations and communities. Search then, for this source of illumination. Wherever you find there are the signs of Fire, turn your face toward it without hesitation. Be thou an admirer of reality and give no heed to superficialities. Love thou the Kernel and not the shell.  ABU1631
