Question: Christ says in the Gospel: "many are called, but few are chosen", and in the Qur'an it is written: "He singleth out for His mercy whomsoever He pleaseth." What is the wisdom of this?  Answer: Know that the order and perfection of the universe require that existence should appear in countless forms. Created things cannot therefore be realized in a single degree, station, manner, kind, or species: Differences of degree, distinctions in form, and a multiplicity of kinds and species are inevitable. So there must necessarily be mineral, vegetable, animal, and human kingdoms; for through man alone the world of existence could not be adequately arranged, adorned, organized, and perfected. By the same token, with the animals, plants, or minerals alone, this world would not possess such a wondrous appearance, sound arrangement, and subtle adornment: There must be differences of degrees and stations, of kinds and species, for existence to shine forth with the utmost perfection.... Now, so long as the degrees of created things are different, some will naturally rank above the others. Thus, since the election of certain creatures, such as man, for the highest degree; the maintenance of others, such as plants, in the middle degree; and the relegation of yet others, such as minerals, to the lowest degree are each and all due to the divine will and purpose, it follows that the singling out of man for the highest degree is through the grace of God, and that the differences among men with regard to spiritual attainments and heavenly perfections are likewise due to the choice of the All-Merciful. For faith, which is life eternal, is a token of grace and not the result of justice. The flame of the fire of love, in this world of earth and water, burns by the power of attraction and not through human effort and striving, although through the latter one may indeed acquire knowledge, learning, and other perfections. It is the light of the divine Beauty, then, that must stir up and move the spirit through its attractive power. Wherefore is it said: "many are called, but few are chosen".   AB01359

We have veiled Our Cause in the heaven of mystery, and We have witnessed no one upon whom We might cast down verses which were sent down from the holy breezes.  BH06622

Nevertheless, few indeed are those perceptive souls who can comprehend the stations of God's favors.  BH06867

"A King has a great number of subjects, but few are his initiated ones."  ABU2354

He appropriateth by His mercy those whom He liketh and chooseth for His love those of whom He approveth. This is in accordance with what Christ said: "Many are called, but few chosen."  AB02480

Thou wert among those who were "called" and thou didst become one of the "chosen".   AB04656

How many an ignorant one hath attained, and how many a learned one hath been barred!  BH07936

Though many are called, few are chosen and manifest signs of divine selection and favor  AB08706

Thank God, for that He hath made thee of the "Chosen Ones," not of those who were only "called"   AB07044

in this great Day thou mightest become one of the chosen ones, not merely of those who are called  AB09367

in this great Day thou mightest become one of the chosen ones and not merely one of those who are called  AB09367

Many are called, but few chosen." That is, many have been invited to faith, but few chosen for guidance.  AB04430

Thank God that He made you one of the chosen ones and created you for the promotion of heavenly teachings   AB04741

"O ye whom God hath chosen from among those who are called (know ye that many are called but few chosen)"   AB06529

O ye whom God hath chosen from among those who are called!--know that "many are called but few are chosen"!   AB04208

God selects a few souls and bestows upon them His Special Gifts, for it says, "Many are called but few chosen."   ABU1271

Christ said, "Many are called, but few are chosen." The chosen have heard and understood the call from the divine assembly.  ABU1953

Praise be to God that in this Most Great Manifestation you became one of the chosen ones, not merely one of those who were called   AB06804

You must consider how dear you were to God that He has led you to His Kingdom, and that you were chosen from the many who were called.   ABU1769

For this reason Jesus said, "Many are called, but few are chosen." By justice all are called, but by Mercy a few are especially chosen.   ABU1333

Undoubtedly the friends of God have been endowed with ability and capacity, on which account they became of the "chosen" and not of the "called."   AB07141

But as for cognizant faith, which is the recognition of God and understanding of God's verses, in every age "many are called but few are chosen." This is the truth.  AB00653

"Many are called but few are chosen." Know thou that God hath singled thee out for guidance from among those who are called, and hath chosen thee to enter His mighty Kingdom"  AB07735

But those who were invited did not respond to the call due to their ignorance, heedlessness, pride and arrogance. Praise be to God, we have answered the call and attended the table  AB09058

Thus did We make the highest lowest, that what was spoken before might be fulfilled: "We shall make their highest ones their lowest ones, and their lowest ones their highest ones."   BH09657

The whole world utters "O Thou the Desired One!", yet when the Desired One appeared and shone forth from behind the pavilion of infallibility, all turned away except for a few sanctified souls   BH05888

Christ said--glory be to Him!--"Many are called but few chosen." Thank thou thy Lord for He hath made thee of the chosen. By my life! verily, this is a station which God giveth to whomsoever He pleaseth.   AB00964

The gift of faith is a bestowal emanating from absolute mercy on the part of God, and as God specializes for the bestowals which emanate from faith, thus His Holiness Christ says "Verily, many are called but few are chosen."   ABU1116

Jesus said, "Many are called"--this is justice--"but few are chosen"--this is favor. The chosen ones are the appearances of Favor--others are the appearances of Justice. Otherwise the Name of justice would never be realized and God is independent. He does as He wills.   ABU0507

All the people are sleep but you are awake. They are all engaged with the affairs of this world but ye are occupied with the thoughts of God. This is a most important Bestowal! It is not made possible for every soul. In this connection Christ says:- Many are called bur few are chosen.  ABU1535

Praise be to God, the All-Forgiving Lord, Who in this Day of Manifestation hath enabled you to perform righteous deeds and hath made you renowned and distinguished among the people of God for your faith and certitude. Many are called, but few are chosen and manifest ones, and He bestoweth His mercy upon whomsoever He willeth.  AB08706

Many are called but few are chosen. This meaneth that while many are invited to the Faith, few are those who attain to the grace of guidance and the succour of divine favour, for the gift of guidance is purely an outpouring of grace and bounty, not dependent on capacity and worthiness. He singles out for His mercy whomsoever He pleaseth.  AB12229

Many of the people are heedless of this Great Day. We are the blessed ones who Know and are acquainted with its wonderful significances. Why are they sleeping while you have been awakened? You have attained while they are deprived because they will not see. The reason of this is mentioned in the Bible--'Many are called, but few are chosen.'  ABU1183

He raised a call from the Supreme Concourse which created commotion and resurrection among the flock of birds. Some, through the power of that call, flew to the Kingdom of the All-Powerful Lord. Others spread their wings and took flight but were afflicted with weariness and lassitude. And some completely submerged their wings in the clay of error.  AB02938

"Praise be to God that divine grace has encircled you! He has chosen you from among His creation and made you favorites of His court. How many are the divines who have called on God in their churches saying, 'O our Lord! O our Lord!' Yet when their Lord appeared they remained veiled. You were neither ministers nor monks and you have attained this grace. This is what Christ meant when He said, 'Many are called but few are chosen'. Similarly, He said, 'The people are entering the Kingdom from all directions but the sons of the Kingdom are leaving it.' Although from distant lands, you have become enlightened whereas most of the countrymen and neighbors of Baha'u'llah have remained veiled."  ABU0945

