
"The marriage bond is very important." He repeated it again: "Very very important. Marriage must be strict and pure. You must all be very careful about this."   ABU1642

Amongst the believers, He hath ordained this binding covenant to be a sign of Divine Unity and the highest means for attaining physical and spiritual union. He hath matched His servants and chosen ones with luminous maidservants and heavenly leaves…. He hath bound together their hearts and made them even as a single soul, that they may, at all times and under all conditions, live in harmony, affection, unity, and concord.  AB12841
 
Marriage according to divine law is essential and therefore highly blessed. In youth its rewards and blessings are not apparent, but later one sees that having formed a family brings great joy and delight.  ABU2323

Verily, it (the Word of God) causes the multitudes to assemble together, and the remote ones to be united. Thus the husband and wife are brought into affinity, are united and harmonized, even as though they were one person. Through their mutual union, companionship and love great results are produced in the world, both material and spiritual.  AB02847

When either one of the two adores the other instead of God, then each will prevent the other from entering into the Kingdom of God.  AB10793

When He desired to manifest grace and beneficence to men, and to set the world in order, He revealed observances and created laws; among them He established the law of marriage, made it as a fortress for well-being and salvation  BH03181

wed Thou in the heaven of Thy mercy these two birds of the nest of Thy love, and make them the means of attracting perpetual grace; that from the union of these two seas of love a wave of tenderness may surge  AB05652


"The marriage which is associated with spirituality and illumination is good."  ABU0697

ye must consult with each other, confer with the utmost love, agree upon a sound decision, and be fully united, for husband and wife must be even as one person, that they may succeed in every matter.   AB12055

He has made marriage in the human world blessed and auspicious, through which hearts are united and breasts are gladdened   AB03306

"Marry thou a wise, perfect, learned, experienced and faithful person, so that thy time may pass in joy and happiness from beginning up to the end."  AB04359

Thou canst take unto thyself a husband and at the same time serve the Cause of God; the one doth not preclude the other.   AB00802

Thou didst intend to marry - this is blessed. God willing, after marriage thou must, together with thy respected spouse, engage in the diffusion of the divine fragrances  AB12541

My hope is that this union will be eternal - both physical and spiritual, both outward and inward - so that you may pass your days together in the utmost joy and delight   AB03317

It has been ordained in this holy Dispensation that love and unity between husband and wife should increase day by day, until they become as one soul, one spirit and one body.  AB12382

And concerning what was written about marriage - they should consult with the guardians. Whatever results from that consultation, there has been and is no objection to acting upon it  BH01649

regarding marriage, the more distant the relationship, the better, for distance in kinship between husband and wife is conducive to human physical well-being and the cause of fellowship among mankind.  AB07848

Both man and woman must become spiritually and physically united, so that they may have eternal unity throughout all the divine worlds and improve the spiritual life of each other. This is Bahai matrimony.  AB03461

God ordained pairing, blending and mutual attraction between the hearts of the loved ones and handmaidens through the marriage bond, that it might be a cause of success and prosperity for bodies and souls.   AB12166

Children and descendants who, being of noble lineage, are confirmed in goodly character - that is, who are illumined by the effulgences of the Luminary of the horizons - are counted among good deeds that endure.  AB09418

In this glorious Cause the life of a married couple should resemble the life of the angels in heaven -- a life full of joy and spiritual delight, a life of unity and concord, a friendship both mental and physical.  ABU2222

As in the vegetable world the best results are obtained when one kind of fruit is grafted on another, so in the human family, the best and strongest children are obtained by intermarriage between different races.   ABU3408

Know thou that the command of marriage is eternal. It will never be changed nor altered. This is divine creation and there is not the slightest possibility that change or alteration affect this divine creation (marriage).  AB02536

When two birds sing on the branches of a cedar with sweet melodies in remembrance of God those melodies will reach the highest summit from this nether region and it will exhilarate the denizens of the temples of the Kingdom.   AB07404

the husband and wife are brought into affinity, are united and harmonized, even as though they were one person. Through their mutual union, companionship and love great results are produced in the world, both material and spiritual.  AB01141

Marriage is a holy and divine Covenant, and young men, in order to partake of the responsibilities of life, must enter into this sacred compact of physical and spiritual relationship. They must bring into their new lives pure bodies, pure thoughts and pure motives.  ABU1399

O ye two believers in God! The Lord, peerless is He, hath made woman and man to abide with each other in the closest companionship, and to be even as a single soul. They are two helpmates, two intimate friends, who should be concerned about the welfare of each other.  AB06767

Man and woman should truly be friends and should be in sympathy with each other. Their understanding should have a basis in reality and not be based upon passion and desire. In the latter case, they might live together for a few years, but afterwards, differences may arise.  ABU2846

Now your engagement is the greatest expression of love and affection. It will certainly yield great results. You have formed a blessed family. The exalted Hosts will spread their congratulations over you and the inhabitants of the Kingdom of Abha will convey their felicitations.  AB12388

The greatest bond that will unite the hearts of man and wife is faithfulness and loyalty. Both must exercise toward each other the utmost faithfulness and loyalty and not let any trace of jealousy creep between them; for this thing like unto poison vitiates the very foundation of love.   ABU0364

As for what you mentioned regarding the matter of marriage... This depends on the consent of both parties and the parents. We beseech Him, exalted be He, to bless them both and through them, and to send down His blessings upon them, and to ordain for them the good of the hereafter and of this world   BH03310

The man and wife must dedicate their knowledge, their talents, their fortunes, their titles, their bodies and their spirits, first to BAHA'O'LLAH and then to each other. Their thoughts must be lofty, their ideals luminous, their hearts spiritual, and their souls the dawning-places of the rays of the Sun of Reality.   ABU0364

The husband is one who has sincerely turned unto God, is awakened by the call of the Beauty of El-Baha and chants the verses of oneness in the great assemblies. The wife is a being who wishes to be overflowing with and seeks after the attributes of God and His names; and the tie between them is no other than the Word of God.  AB02847

The real relation which is based upon spiritual love and companionship will ever remain the same... The love between man and wife must ever be kept sacred and holy... the life in the family must be pure, soul-elevating so that the children may breath the uncontaminated atmosphere of sanctity and the love of their parents may be a great example to them.   ABU2489

A marriage performed according to the religion of God will be very blessed. A young man cannot appreciate fully the blessings of marriage. When he grows older he will realize its supreme importance in life. When he sees that through the sacred bond of matrimony, he has formed a beautiful family, he soars into the heaven of bliss, especially when he is laden with years.   ABU1783

Therefore, completely forget yourself. Seek nothing but servitude to Him and desire nothing but sacrifice...O Lord! Make this bond of unity that You have tied enduring, and grant this servant and handmaiden a spiritual and physical connection. Make this union abundantly blessed and this marriage a cause of joy. Increase the spirituality of both and grant them illumination  AB02051

A condition must be realized in which the man and woman sacrifice their right for each other, serve each other with heart and soul and not through force and violence. This condition cannot be realized except through the power of faith. Hearts must be attracted to the divine fragrances so that each one prefers the other to himself and does not consider himself above the other.  ABU0319

And then the voice of the Divine Lote-Tree sounded, calling aloud and saying: “Praise be unto God Who hath ordained marriage to be a portal for the appearance of the manifestations of His Name, the All-Merciful, and adorned by its means the cities of His mention and praise.” Verily, it is the key to the perpetuation of life for the peoples of the world, and the inscrutable instrument for the fulfilment of their destiny. Through it the water of life hath streamed forth unto the people of certitude. Praised be God, Who hath made marriage a means for propagating His Cause amongst His servants and proclaiming His Word throughout the world.  BH11707

The friends of God must so live and conduct themselves, and evince such excellence of character and conduct, as to make others astonished. The love between husband and wife must not be purely physical, nay, rather, it must be spiritual and heavenly. These two souls should be considered as one soul. How difficult it would be to divide a single soul! Nay, great would be the difficulty!  AB02870


Strive, then, to abide, heart and soul, with each other as two doves in the nest, for this is to be blessed in both worlds.  AB06767

Therefore marriage is most blessed and acceptable in God's sight. So may this union of yours be blessed and auspicious and, God willing, become the cause of forming a blessed family.  ABU2323

I hope is that you both may become even as one tree, and may, through the outpourings of the cloud of loving-kindness, acquire freshness and charm, and may blossom and yield fruit, so that your line may eternally endure.   AB05176


Their understanding should have a basis in reality and not be based upon passion and desire. In the latter case, they might live together for a few years, but afterwards, differences may arise. Each should seek to comfort and assist the other.  ABU2846

There are two relations between man and wife, one real, the other unreal. The real relation which is based upon spiritual love and companionship will ever remain the same; the other relation which is unreal will be done away with. The love between man and wife must ever be kept sacred and holy.   ABU2489

In truth, one must arise in faithfulness and show firmness and steadfastness, especially to one's companion, associate, intimate friend and confidant, for the rights between these two are ancient, firm and strong  AB01177

It is highly important for man to raise a family. So long as he is young, because of youthful self-complacency, he does not realize its significance, but this will be a source of regret when he grows old.... The home should be orderly and well-organized.  ABU2222

Marriage, among the mass of the people, is a physical bond, and this union can only be temporary, since it is foredoomed to a physical separation at the close. Among the people of Baha, however, marriage must be a union of the body and of the spirit as well, for here both husband and wife are aglow with the same wine, both are enamoured of the same matchless Face, both live and move through the same spirit, both are illumined by the same glory.  AB02400


If the husband preventeth his wife from entering into the Light, or the wife preventeth the husband from entering into the Kingdom of God." In reality neither one of them preventeth the other from entering into the Kingdom of God, except when the husband hath a great attachment to the wife, or the wife to the husband. When either one of the two adoreth the other to the exclusion of God, then each will prevent the other from entering into the Kingdom of God.   AB07049

From separation doth every kind of hurt and harm proceed, but the union of created things doth ever yield most laudable results. From the pairing of even the smallest particles in the world of being are the grace and bounty of God made manifest; and the higher the degree, the more momentous is the union. 'Glory be to Him Who hath created all the pairs, of such things as earth produceth, and out of men themselves, and of things beyond their ken.' And above all other unions is that between human beings, especially when it cometh to pass in the love of God. Thus is the primal oneness made to appear; thus is laid the foundation of love in the spirit.  AB02596

Do not hurry the matter, as it is better to wait a while in such affairs. Perchance that person's heart may be illumined with the light of guidance, and thou mayest draw him nearer the shade of the Tree of Life and enable him to enter the paradise of divine love. Tell him: "I desire intimacy and union with thee in both the earthly and divine kingdoms, both physically and spiritually. Were we to be united in body only and remain distant in spirit, what use and benefit would such a union bring? For such intimacy would be a transitory thing and not an essential reality. Rather would I share a bond with thee in both the earthly and heavenly realms, in both body and spirit. Such a union would be divine and everlasting..."  AB02444

