Say: "Verily, He Who came unto you by the name of 'Ali was the Herald of this Most Great, Most Glorious Manifestation, and His Most Exalted Pen moved only in My remembrance and praise, and there flowed from His ink naught but this wise Remembrance, until He sacrificed His soul in My love that ye might not commit in the time of the Manifestation what the people of the Furqan, and before them the people of the Torah and the Gospel, committed." BH03086

The Bab was martyred in the Cause of God.  ABU0126

they hung Him in public and fired a thousand bullets at His blessed breast  AB01358

His Holiness the Exalted One was martyred though He was the quintessence of meekness.  ABU0915

"After the Bab's breast became the target of a thousand bullets"   AB01065

Say: After the ascension of the Point, We raised up the Cause. Verily He is the Almighty, the Powerful.  BH07088

The Bab taught for six years and was two years in exile and prison. When finally He hung on that fatal wall in the public square, His breast the target for a thousand bullets, His thoughts were of those who were to carry on the teachings of God's Kingdom on earth--the faithful followers of the Light. ABU1874

Especially the Bab (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) - His blessed breast became the target of a thousand bullets.   AB01426

the Exalted One - may my spirit be sacrificed for His most pure blood - hastened to the field of martyrdom with utmost joy  AB03200

The Primal Point appeared from the Dawning Place of God's Will with divine majesty from the unseen realm into the visible world, and gave tidings of this blessed and wondrous Day. Yet they denied Him and arose in opposition, and finally martyred Him through the verdict of the contemptible Shi'ih divines. BH04898

Mr. Latimer: "Was the Babi, Aga Muhammad-'Ali, who was martyred with the Bab, killed with the first volley or the second?"  'Abdu'l-Baha: "With the first one he was killed. He was mutilated. But the body of His Holiness the Bab was not hit by the first discharge." ABU0913

For twelve hundred years the people of the Furqan clung to vain imaginings and idle fancies, depriving the servants of God from all the infinite divine bounties and heavenly sustenance, such that, as was witnessed, those imaginings and fancies caused the martyrdom of the Primal Point, may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake. I swear by the Sun of certitude that those fancies have been and will continue to be the cause and reason for the kindling of the fire of tyranny throughout the world. BH05094

The Exalted One and Primal Point, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, allowed His blessed breast to become the target of a hundred thousand bullets.   AB01801

God's love it was that sustained the Bab and brought Him to his supreme sacrifice, and made His bosom the willing target for a thousand bullets  ABU0984

On the day of martyrdom of His Holiness the Exalted One - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His dust - circumambulate the purified shrine on behalf of this servant   AB02648

They said they would wholly annihilate the Cause by destroying the Bab. Could they do so? No, the very martyrdom of the Bab strengthened His Cause a thousand-fold.  ABU0997

sacred remains of the Primal Point, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him, were laid to rest with utmost glory and beauty in the blessed casket at the Most Exalted Spot   AB03378

On the Day of Resurrection during the days of the Exalted One, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, it raised a tumult and clamor but was silenced by the supreme martyrdom.   AB02895

Until He was martyred in My path, along with those who were with Him among the guides of His Self, and all returned to that from which they were created by their Lord's command   BB00666

He delivered God's messages until he was martyred for the love of God, the Lord of the worlds. Thereupon the eyes of the Prophets wept in their most exalted habitations, and the angels near unto God lamented.  BH10825

After the martyrdom of His Holiness the Exalted One [the Bab], Mirza Sa'id Khan wrote a letter, stating, "This movement has ended and none are left except the Blessed Beauty." He wrote this when Mirza Yayha was around.   ABU1033

Verily, the oppressor [King of Persia] slew the Beloved of the Worlds [the Bab] that he might thereby extinguish the light of God among His creatures and deprive mankind of the pure water of life in the days of his Lord   ABU0336

and the Day of Martyrdom falls on the Day of Sovereignty in the Month of Mercy...expressing joy on the Day of Declaration and showing intense grief and sorrow in the countenance of the Blessed Beauty on the Day of Martyrdom   AB05139

You were vainly imagining that with the martyrdom of His Holiness the Bab this spiritual lamp would have been died out but contrary to the expectation of all the opposers, its light illumined the horizons of the East and the West.   ABU1466

His Holiness the Bab was martyred in Tabriz before thousands of people, many friends sacrificed their lives, innumerable souls hastened toward the arena of self-immolation, persecutions and hardships descended upon the believers like hailstorm.  ABU0159

His Holiness the Bab and nearly all his followers were martyred. Upon the death of the Bab, Mirza Yahya, my uncle, who had been appointed viceregent of the Bab, fled, and thus the Babi movement was virtually ended, however there are a few Babis today.  ABU0327

When the Bab was martyred the friends were grief-stricken and disheartened while the enemies were greatly rejoicing, saying 'Praise be to God, the Bab was martyred.' But had the Bab not been martyred, the Blessed Beauty would not have declared His Cause.  ABU2218

For this, that remarkable Personality was imprisoned by the Persian government. Eventually, by order of the government He was martyred. The account of this martyrdom, briefly stated, is as follows: He was suspended in a square as a target and shot to death.  ABU0040

He was imprisoned at Shiraz, then went to Isfahan, was afterward confined in a fortress at Maku and finally executed in a public square of Tabriz. This supreme martyrdom raised his banner yet higher and heightened the power of divine manifestation on earth   ABU0127

"You thought that if you martyred the Exalted One (may the spirit of all worlds be sacrificed for Him), this foundation would collapse. You fired a thousand bullets into His pure breast, then saw that the Cause of God appeared more strongly and its light shone more brightly"  AB00416

"Likewise the Bab - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - was for a time imprisoned in the fortresses and strongholds of that land and was suspended in the field of sacrifice, His mirror-like breast becoming the target of a thousand bullets and His pure body falling in pieces to the ground."  AB00562

Today is the Anniversary of the Martyrdom of His Holiness the Most Exalted One (the Bab), may my soul be offered up as a ransom for His sacred blood. This is the Day when the Sun of Truth was hidden behind the clouds of divine providence. This is the Day when that shining Moon did set. This is the Day when that sacred and delicate Body rolled in dust and blood. This is the Day when that gentle and immaculate Breast was riddled with a thousand bullets. This is the Day when that heavenly Lamp was detached from its physical globe. This is the Day when the lamentation of the Concourse on High is most intense. This is the Day when the dwellers of the exalted Kingdom are wailing and sobbing with tearful eyes and poignant hearts. AB03056

had the Bab (may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him) spent His days in the affairs of this mortal world, would that have been better than spending them in the path of God, enduring afflictions, tribulations and calamities, and ultimately drinking the cup of martyrdom? The Holy Manifestations and previous Prophets suffered greatly, but for limited days.  ABU0347

The Bab was subjected to bitter persecution in Shiraz, where He first proclaimed His mission and message. A period of famine afflicted that region, and the Bab journeyed to Isfahan. There the learned men rose against Him in great hostility. He was arrested and sent to Tabriz. From thence He was transferred to Maku and finally imprisoned in the strong castle of Chihriq. Afterward He was martyred in Tabriz.  ABU0346

Next day the chief of the farrashes delivered over the Bab and a young man named Aqa Muhammad-'Ali who was of a noble family of Tabriz to Sam Khan, colonel of the Christian regiment of Urumiyyih, at the sentences of the learned divine Mulla Muhammad of Mamaqan, of the second ecclesiastical authority Mulla Mirza Baqir, and of the third ecclesiastical authority Mulla Murtada-Quli and others. An iron nail was hammered into the middle of the staircase of the very cell wherein they were imprisoned, and two ropes were hung down. By one rope the Bab was suspended and by the other rope Aqa Muhammad-'Ali, both being firmly bound in such wise that the head of that young man was on the Bab's breast. The surrounding housetops billowed with teeming crowds. A regiment of soldiers ranged itself in three files. The first file fired; then the second file, and then the third file discharged volleys. From the fire of these volleys a mighty smoke was produced. When the smoke cleared away they saw that young man standing and the Bab seated by the side of His amanuensis Aqa Siyyid Husayn in the very cell from the staircase of which they had suspended them. To neither one of them had the slightest injury resulted.   Sam Khan the Christian asked to be excused; the turn of service came to another regiment, and the chief of the farrashes withheld his hand. Aqa Jan Big of Khamsih, colonel of the bodyguard, advanced; and they again bound the Bab together with that young man to the same nail. The Bab uttered certain words which those few who knew Persian understood, while the rest heard but the sound of His voice.  The colonel of the regiment appeared in person: and it was before noon on the twenty-eighth day of Sha'ban in the year [A.H.] one thousand two hundred and sixty-six.* Suddenly he gave orders to fire. At this volley the bullets produced such an effect that the breasts [of the victims] were riddled, and their limbs were completely dissected, except their faces, which were but little marred.   AB00003

