Consider how Mary Magdalene was only a peasant girl.   ABU2013

"Just as in the time of Christ: the disciples were agitated when they saw the body of Jesus crucified. Then Mary Magdalene came to them and said: 'Why are you agitated?' 'Because,' they replied, 'Jesus has been crucified.' 'Oh,' she said, 'that was the body of Jesus, but the Reality of Jesus is living and eternal. It is not subject to corruption.'   ABU1052

while Mary Magdelene, who was ignorant and knew nothing, was chosen and accepted Him   ABU1333

Mary Magdalene said matter is gone, and flesh, but the soul of the religion is forever.  ABU1136

"Blessed are ye for attaining to that which was the greatest hope of Mary the Magdalene"  AB04965

Mary the Magdalene, even an adultress, will be promoted to such a lofty station... He officiated Mary the Magdalen the holiest of the holy souls, an angel.  ABU0585

Mary Magdalene, after the ascension of the Beauty of Jesus, arose with such firmness and steadfastness that she perfumed the horizons with the fragrances of the love of God   AB04653

"Mary Magdalene was the daughter of a farmer and but a peasant; yet, today her name is known and renowned throughout the world, because in his day she accepted Christ and went forth to serve Him"   ABU2769

"All were shaken but Mary Magdalen. She was a veritable lioness. She gathered the others together and said, 'Why do ye mourn? Did not the Christ foretell his crucifixion? Arise, and be assured.'"   ABU0451

Mary Magdalen was only a woman of the town, and they used to blame her very much, but after she believed in Christ see her glory! Judge by the present, how many days have passed, and we are now talking about her.  ABU1395

This Mary Magdelaine in whose name they have built a most wonderful church in Paris was a simple peasant girl. As she dedicated her simple capacity to the Cause of Christ, she became well-known throughout all ages.   ABU1128

whose blessed name was Mary Magdalene...Until now her worth and station had remained hidden - now it has become clear and evident. This paragon of beauty manifested such power that she became the pride of heroic men.  AB06396

Ye have undoubtedly read the history of Mary Magdalene. She was but one country woman. Consider what firmness and steadfastness she displayed and made manifest, both in the days of His Holiness Christ, and after Him!  AB11475

But you must turn your face wholly toward the kingdom of Abha, giving perfect attention; the same attention that Mary Magdalene had for His Holiness Christ. Be like her and I will assure you that you will get physical health and spiritual health.  ABU0930

After the death of Christ, the disciples were not at first firm. Peter denied Him. Mary Magdalene was the cause of their uniting. Out of her steadfastness, what a great result came. If she had wavered, the Truth of Christ would not have spread as it did.   ABU0671

Consider how many empresses have come and gone since the time of Christ. Each was the ruler of a country but now all trace and name of them is lost, while Mary Magdalene, who was only a peasant and a maidservant of God, still shineth from the horizon of everlasting glory.  AB03459

"When Mary Magdelaine embraced the Cause of Christ no one gave any importance to her, no one even mentioned her name. Outwardly not the least importance was attached to them; but it became known afterwards and the great privilege of entrance into the Kingdom of Christ was appreciated."  ABU1088

When Her Holiness the Essence of Sanctification and Reality of Holiness, Mary the Virgin - upon her be greetings and praise - became sanctified and purified from worldly concerns, she bore such a luminous fruit that she became the shell for that divine pearl and the target for endless arrows of cruelty.   AB11952

Consider Mary Magdalene: she was but a village woman, yet when she believed in her Lord and remained firm and steadfast in the love of God, she made firm the feet of the apostles in the love of the radiant and beloved Christ. This was naught but a confirmation from her Lord and a blessing from Him Who reared her.  AB11212

Ponder over the condition of the apostles, and that of Mary the Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Mary the Virgin the mother of Jesus. What a severe calamity befell them, and how they were patient and endured all difficulties until they succeeded, prospered and attained to the Bounty of thy Lord, the Generous.  AB10186

"When His holiness the Spirit (Christ) was martyred, the only one who was not disturbed at all was Mary Magdalene. For the rest of the disciples were confused and discouraged. When Mary became a believer, and fell upon the feet of Christ, although she was a villager of no good repute, Christ did not withhold His feet from her."  ABU0465

Although in the beginning, after His ascension, trembling and agitation prevailed due to the intense fear and dread that had arisen, yet after several days a woman named Mary Magdalene manifested such steadfastness and firmness that she established those men firmly and steadfastly in the Cause, and they arose to exalt the Word of God.  AB00348

"Verily, Mary Magdalene was a villager, but on account of her keeping firm in the Cause of Christ after His death, she was rendered successful in such a matter, whereby her face is shining and beaming forth on the horizon of the universe forevermore! And she surpassed even men in defending the fortress of the Cause of God against the attack of the hosts of suspicions."  AB02844

What apparent capacity did Mary Magdalene have? She was a village woman. Many greater women came who were all from royal lineage in the material world, or from among the famous of the lands and peoples. But because Mary had the love of Christ in her heart, through the love of Christ every capacity was given to her, to the extent that such a church was built in France in her name.   ABU1373

Verily, Mary, the Magdalene, was a villager, but she kept firm in the Cause of Christ and confirmed the apostles at the time she declared to them (thus): "Verily, Christ is alive and eternal and death did not overtake Him; and verily, the foundation of His religion is not shaken by His crucifixion at the hand of the oppressors!" By this her face is eternally shining from the horizon of guidance.   AB00837

She so encouraged and strengthened them by her words that their faith was confirmed; they became strong as lions and went out teaching in all directions, and by the power of God working through them, the knowledge of God spread all over the earth. Now in the eternal Kingdom their names shine as the most brilliant stars. Even here on this earth their names are remembered with love and reverence by millions.   ABU1351

It is said of Mary Magdalen that out of her went seven devils. This means seven evil qualities which Jesus cast out of her by teaching her the Truth. She was not such a bad woman as some supposed before her conversion, but the wonder is that such a saint and miracle of purity and goodness could have been created by the New Birth. She was greater than all the disciples of Jesus because she alone stood firm after His death, and never wavered.  ABU2603

certain holy personages dwelling among us may not be appreciated during their lifetime, but after their departure from this life their reality will become manifest. Such a one was Mary Magdalene. The greatness of her station was not known during her lifetime, but after nineteen hundred years God has made it clear that this woman was the most steadfast of all the followers of His Holiness Christ. After the crucifixion his disciples were greatly agitated, even Peter who, although he had denied His Holiness Christ to be, was considered the chief of the apostles, but this marvelous woman caused them to become firm and steadfast. Through the power of her faith they were able to see that though the body of Christ had been crucified yet his spirit or reality had not suffered but was with them still; that his body was like a torn and discarded garment, but that his spirit was eternal and indestructible. Thus the disciples became reorganized through her exhortations and exhibition of firmness. Now, after this long period, the station of Mary Magdalene has been revealed. Hence we must have faith that at the proper time every reality will likewise become revealed. ABU1908

But Mary Magdalene, who was a village woman, because she served the Kingdom of Christ and sowed seeds in fertile soil, what a harvest she produced! Due to the blessing of that harvest, churches are still being built in her name and she is praised in all churches. And after nineteen hundred years, now 'Abdu'l-Baha is proving her supreme station - that in the Kingdom of Christ she rendered more service than all the apostles, even becoming the cause of the firmness and steadfastness of all the apostles.  AB01577

After the Lord Christ suffered, the disciples wept, and gave way to their grief. They thought that their hopes were shattered, and that the Cause was utterly lost, till Mary Magdalene came to them and strengthened them saying: 'Do you mourn the body of Our Lord or His Spirit? If you mourn His Spirit, you are mistaken, for Jesus lives! His Spirit will never leave us!' Thus through her wisdom and encouragement the Cause of Christ was upheld for all the days to come. Her intuition enabled her to grasp the spiritual fact.   ABU2288

"The cause of their firmness was Mary Magdalene who gathered them and addressed them with eloquence and fervor: 'Why are ye agitated? Why are troubled? What is the cause of your retirement? Jesus always foretold about his death that a day is coming when I shall quaff from that cup. Now nothing has happened to throw you into such a consternation. Only this earthly, elemental body of Jesus is taken away from our midst but the Spirit of Christ is the Sun of Reality which is ever shining upon all the inhabitants of the world.'"   ABU0248

Tell the believers that I want the strong ones among them to strengthen the weak, just as Mary Magdalene did after the death of Christ. On that famous even the disciples of Christ became very weak and disappointed, and some of them were full of doubts and were likely to disbelieve in him. At last they went to Mary and said to her, "Do you not know he is dead." She replied, "Well it does not matter was the soul killed or the body?" They answered "the body" Then she said to them, "Do not fear, he is still alive and will be with us always, and is ready at all times to help us, Go, be firm and strong, and do not let small things trouble you or fill you with doubts. Go and preach the word of God to everyone with sincere faith and you will be confirmed by the Holy Spirit."   ABU0115

The bounty and power of God is limitless for each human soul. Consider what was the quickening power of the Christ when He was on earth. Look at His disciples! They were poor and uncultured men. Out of the rough fisherman He made the great Peter, and out of the poor village girl of Magdala He made one who is a power in all the world today. Many queens have reigned who are remembered by their dates in history, and nothing more is known of them. But Mary the Magdalene is greater than them all. It was she whose love strengthened the disciples when their faith was failing. What she did for the world cannot be measured. See what a divine power was enkindled in her by the power of God!  ABU2200
