The outward is the expression of the inward; the earthly realm mirrors the heavenly kingdom; and the material world correspondeth with the spiritual world. Observe thou that in the sensible world divine appearances are not repeated, for no created thing can be identical with another in all ways. The sign of the Divine Unity is present and visible in all things.  AB00036

God willing, to the extent you are cognizant of the divine worlds, you will recognize and understand the metaphorical nature of this world, and will be able to extend it to the limitless worlds.  BH00423

love and peace bring heaven down to earth  ABU3332

this earthy kingdom mirrors the Heavenly Kingdom.   AB06664

make the material world a mirror of the divine realm.   AB04374

Consider material things, which are a symbol of spiritual things.   AB03186

The adornment and light here is but a ray from the effulgence there.  AB10102

The outward and perishable is but the sign of the inward and imperishable.  ABU1183

Even in this earthly center, consider what news there is from the divine world  AB07603

this earthly realm must be made to reflect the gatherings of the highest heaven   AB04249

so that the lights of the Kingdom may be reflected in the mirror of the human world   AB07234

Human reality is a divine trust, and the human world represents its natural emanations  AB04068

There are two kinds of scriptures and books existent in the world. One consists of the tablets of hearts, which are inscribed by the sanctified Pen - "Nun. By the Pen and that which they write." The other consists of outward books and writings, which are traced by the known pen. These outward scriptures are a reflection of those divine tablets and tablets of hearts. AB09789

How excellent is what was said: "That which is below has a form of that which is above."   AB03656

and the human world may become a mirror of the Kingdom of God upon which spiritual lights shine   AB04957

thus may the outward express the inward, and the form (or letter) indicate the meaning (or reality).  AB06288

the penetration of the word of God will change this nether world into the mirror of the realm on high.  ABU3269

The face of the earth became the highest paradise, and the surface of the world became the Abha Kingdom.  AB08712

This turning wheel which is thus delicate and pleasant and beautiful, Has below it a form of that which is above  AB04959

Know that this nether world is the mirror of the kingdom, and the former is exactly the counterpart of the latter.  ABU2887

May the material world become a mirror of the Kingdom and may the Sun of Truth shine upon all regions of the world   AB01671

All that existeth in the world of dominion and the kingdom is but a reflection and shadow of the hidden divine realms  BH08751

"But the outward raiment must be also clean and immaculate, so that the outer may be a faint expression of the inner."  ABU0727

This world of being is an inscribed book and an unfurled scroll...These lines are deeds and actions, ways and words and conduct  AB09343

May the human world become a mirror of the divine Kingdom and the lights of the realm of might shine forth in the world of existence   AB01073

As in the physical world there are four seasons, so in the realm of religion there is the season of heavenly and spiritual springtime.  ABU2227

Try, if thou canst, to use spiritual melodies, songs and tunes, and to bring the earthly music into harmony with the celestial melody.   AB06829

May the earthly realm take on the image of the heavenly realm and may the contingent world become the dawning-place of the Spirit of God  AB03721

For whatsoever exists below has its counterpart above. Then will the expanse of earth and the realm of contingent being become the Abha Paradise.  AB08279

Every divine reality and every reality in creation, whether outward forms or inner meanings, possesses a fragrance and bestows a breath of spirit.  AB10270

That which thou beholdest in this temporal world are the fleeting shadows of the world of the Kingdom and the external images of the celestial realm.  AB05577

As all things are nourished and sustained by the light and warmth of the sun, so are all created beings filled with the overflowing bounty of Christ.   ABU3187

Every material thing we see around us represents some spiritual idea. As there is and outward, material reality, so there is also an inward, spiritual reality.   ABU1628

The former were inscribed in books, psalms, scrolls and tablets, while the latter appeared in the Preserved Tablet and the outstretched parchment of the horizons  AB05536

Although all created things are divine tablets and pages wherein the mysteries of Lordship are inscribed, the Preserved Tablet and the open scroll are the hearts of the friends.  AB02516

the material worlds are but a reflection, O my Beloved, of those invisible Divine worlds that can never be understood save by every man of insight  AB00326

strive thou to capture images of the Concourse on High in the mirror of capability and potential, and to show forth heavenly reflections upon earthly planes. That which is below hath its image in that which is above.   AB07496

the contingent world - that is, the realm of the senses and the external sphere - in relation to the stations of heart and soul and the world of the heart and spirit, is like the realm of the womb in relation to the world and cosmos.   AB05191

Some material things have a spiritual effect. The spoken words cause a vibration which produces an effect upon the ear. This is material, but the effect is spiritual--that is, the spirit of man feels the effect--either of gladness or sadness.  ABU3428

Know thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this nether place is only its shadow stretching out. A shadow hath no life of its own; its existence is only a fantasy, and nothing more; it is but images reflected in water, and seeming as pictures to the eye.  AB04567

There are two Books: One is the Book of Creation and the other is the written Book. The written Book consisteth of the heavenly Books which are revealed to the Prophets of God and have issued forth from the lips of His Manifestations. The Book of Creation is the preserved Tablet and the outspread roll of existence. The Book of Creation is in accord with the written Book. AB00170

That the visible world may be the mirror of the world of the kingdom; that the image of the Supreme Concourse may be reflected in all gatherings of men; that the earth may be changed into the paradise of the Glorious One, and the Divine Jerusalem embrace the terrestrial globe.  ABU1932

Verily, the physical world corresponds to the spiritual world, and the material existence conforms to the spiritual existence. The realm of creation is but a reflection of signs indicating the attributes, perfections and ordinances of the divine realm in terms of names, qualities and laws.   AB00123

Open the eye of outward vision in the arena of existence, that thou mayest behold the verses of the Supreme Concourse inscribed, recorded and confirmed in clear script upon the scroll of the horizons. And observe with care the pure and delicate pages of creation, that thou mayest perceive the images of the most glorious Kingdom.  AB08765

For I [the sun] am a visible sign of that true Sun of divine Reality; I am the outward appearance of that resplendent Source of Divinity that has arisen in the Orient of God. Verily, these rays of mine are the symbols, merely, of the all-embracing sovereign grace which is shed upon the world by Him Who is the Day Star of the worlds of God.  AB08127

Whatever there is in the world of contingency is a symbol of the spiritual world; whatever there is on the earth is a symbol of heavenly things. For example: In the spiritual world there is the light of guidance, in the outer world there is the lamp, its symbol. In the divine world there is love, symbolized in the material world by magnetism.  ABU1318

Make a mighty endeavour, then, and speak forth in such wise that the patterns and systems of the material world shall become aligned with the over-arching order of the cosmos itself and may reflect the beautiful symmetries of universal law. Then will the outer form correspond with the inner meaning and be entitled to the designation of Reality.  AB09507

Verily in the creation of the heavens and earth, and in the alternation of light and darkness, and in the budding forth of trees, and in the motion of the Ark of Oneness upon the sea of fire, and in the wafting of the holy breezes from the Paradise of Beauty, and in the sending down of verses from the cloud of the Divine Essence are signs for people who reflect.   BH02606

Whatever exists above has a form below, though any portrait made by human fingers and visual precision, however splendid and radiant it may be, cannot match the original in every respect. But the image of the sun is a true reflection that comes from the inherent properties of pure substances, and its Creator is the Hand of Divine Power - thus it matches reality.   AB05743

O atheist, I cannot reach down for you, for example, the moon from the firmament, to touch and see close to, but approach the water and at least look at its reflection, the image of the heavenly body. Much can now only be 'seen from afar', imagined from afar, but the day of seeing it close - of touching and possessing, will come, and then we shall speak further."  ABU0610

In like manner, the existence of created things is sheer illusion and utter non-existence compared to that of God and consists in a mere appearance, like an image seen in a mirror. But although this image is an illusion, its source and reality is the person reflected, whose image has appeared in the mirror. Briefly, the reflection is an illusion compared to that which is reflected.  AB02618

The Easterner understands better than the Westerner that the world (the cosmos) is a reflection of the Creator. The Godhead is represented in the category (the image) of the light, the sun, and the created (the world) is a reflection of Divine Light, for the relationship of the created to the Creator is incomprehensible and can only be seen and represented in a pale comparison (analogy).  ABU0218

Between the material things and spiritual things there is connection. The more the body is healthful the greater will be the power of the spirit in man; the power of the intellect, the power of the memory, the power of reflection shall be more powerful. This world is like the body. The Cause of God, the Confirmation of the Holy Spirit, the Divine Bounties, the Spiritual Power are like the Spirit.  ABU0602

Whensoever I raise mine eyes to the heavens and witness their loftiness, I recognize naught therein but the wondrous heights of Thy supreme power and sovereign authority. And whensoever I turn my gaze towards Thine earth and observe the potentialities wherewith it hath been endowed, I perceive naught but the peerless signs of Thine immutable nature and abiding constancy. And whensoever, O my God, I behold the sea and its waves, methinks I hear the billowing ocean of Thy wealth and power. In the sun I discern naught but the marvellous splendour of the light of Thy hallowed countenance and presence, and in the wind I sense naught save the stirring breezes of Thy nearness and reunion. In the trees I behold only the revelation of the fruits of Thy wisdom and knowledge, and in their leaves I read but the pages of the books enshrining the mysteries of all that hath been through Thy command or will be through Thy power.  BH00598
