Speaking of religion and science, the two great wings with which the bird of human kind is able to soar, He said: "Scientific discoveries have increased material civilization. There is in existence a stupendous force, as yet, happily, undiscovered by man. Let us supplicate God, the Beloved, that this force be not discovered by science until spiritual civilization shall dominate the human mind. In the hands of men of lower material nature, this power would be able to destroy the whole earth."  ABU2879

It is true in this country in particular growth in all direction has progressed too rapidly. Moderation should be practiced in all things. Be temperate, even in the size of the ships you build and in their speed; in your railroads and the schedules you expect your trains to maintain. It was a pitiful waste of life that came because of the effort to save a few hours in time - rushing a great vessel at top speed when it was known there was danger from icebergs.  ABU3029

Material civilization is the cause of worldly prosperity but divine civilization is the means of eternal prosperity. If divine civilization, which is all encompassing, is established, then material civilization will also attain perfection. When spiritual perfection is attained, then physical perfection is a certainty.   ABU1982

The sea of materialism is at flood tide and all the nations of the world are immersed in it. It is my hope that the fish will rise to the surface, so that they may behold other wondrous aspects of creation; for the people are like unto the fish swimming in the deep - ignorant of the rest of the universe.   ABU1290


The people of Paris are of two kinds, first the followers of the so-called religion; second the free-thinkers. The former follows blindly the priests; the latter does not like to hear the word of religion mentioned. However all these conditions shall change. The power of the Word of God shall influence the hearts to such an extent that not a trace of these thoughts shall remain. There have been atheists always but when the religion of God becomes manifest all these things are forgotten.  ABU2438

Materialists are searching for knowledge under ground. They are like worms beneath the ground, while the spiritual souls are like birds soaring in the air.  ABU2086

The progress and adornment of a country depends upon the qualities and perceptions of its people and not upon its monuments, parks, gardens, chateaus and mansions   ABU1698

You wrote about the chaos and upheaval of the Bolsheviks. The sacred texts were fulfilled that irreligion would cause chaos and disorder and completely disrupt the order of affairs.  AB00867

If science creates deadly weapons for human slaughter and destruction it is worse than ignorance.   ABU3382

He [Abdu'l-Baha] looks to the rebirth of religion as a result of the war. The Bolshevist movement, he believes, will prove an admonition to the religious world and send mankind back to the fold, convinced that religion is the sole source of order and peace. Bolshevism was inevitable, because religion was on the daily decline in Europe, particularly in Russia. ABU0612

Miss Stevens: "...the Blessed Manifestation is said to have warned against the great progress of technology, and there are said to be prophecies from the All-Highest Pen which do not prophesy anything good for the development of the age of the machine. May we, honoured Master, ask your wise tongue to pronounce on this?"  The Master: "O my daughter, in your utterances, contradictory as they may appear, there is no contradiction! But one should walk the depths and heights of prophetic knowledge thoughtfully, in order to get a clear understanding of the relationship of man and of the human race to technology....  The more man can increase the speed of transportation, the more he becomes a slave of time, he no longer has time for anything - not for his body, much less for soul and spirit, not for himself, not for his fellow men, he is more and more subject to the whistling whip of the god of time.  America will conquer the Old World, not with the weapons of war or the sword of the spirit, but through its industrialism, its technical large-scale industry and through the expansion of the technical environment. The machine will devour time; prosaic numbers and formulae, cold charts and measuring devices will suck dry the soul. Mechanical power with its symbols and expressions will rule men, nay enslave and exploit them, and finally the machine will displace man entirely from life and from work, after which the end of time will approach for our planet because, though one may mechanize towns to a large extent, where man is concerned there is a limit.... But should nine tenths of mankind fall victim to the demon of exaggerated technology, the end of the history of our earth will come about. The last of the Days of Judgment will dawn, when the Prophetic Cycle will have come to an end and the world returns to God, when all becomes lost in Him through the crashing and bursting of the elements, which means annihilation for those turned away from God, but spiritualization for those resting in God, and for those souls still in need of purification and development it is a triumphant sinking into God's infinite grace and mercy. And what is the Teaching of the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah, when we recognize the signs of the time and our souls would like to turn away trembling from the increasing devilry of the age of the machine?"   ABU0170

How the people of both hemispheres have forgotten the wonderful ideals of Divine Civilization.  ABU3049

The more material education advances, the more competitive is the race in aggression and injustice.   ABU3318

They talk of civilization on their tongues while taking an axe to civilization's root.  AB11393

In the West we have laid the foundation of a great civilization, but now it is declining and dissolving.  ABU2554

Then this material realm will be Paradise, the earth Heaven, and the world of Satan become the world of Angels.  AB02184


The material progress of Europe is approaching its zenith. Everything that reaches its zenith undoubtedly begins to decline.  ABU2567

Western Nations gave themselves up a great deal more to the pursuit of material improvements and civilization than the Eastern Nations   ABU1287

In the days of the Romans they were known for their ethics, but now like the Greeks they are observed to be at the height of bad morals.  ABU2330

In a similar strain the nobles, the demagogues, and those in authority find their glory and reputation in naval and military preparedness.  ABU3041

In every quarter they have elaborate buildings for their own pleasure and entertainment, yet they leave the poor in such a state of hardship and melancholy   ABU3000

Whatever lofty edifices thou beholdest, though their pinnacles pierce the galaxy and reach unto the canopy of heaven, will ere long be leveled with the dust.  AB09828

The material world has gained the upper hand, the ideals of life are forgotten. There is no divine Illumination. The material world is animalistic; it is not human.   ABU2189

These countries have reached the apex of material progress. They are like bodies in the utmost health and form which are, however, devoid of spirit. A spiritless body is a dead one.   ABU2138

Although they are engrossed in material civilization and physical pursuits, still, unlike people in some European countries, they are not wholly devoid of spiritual susceptibilities.   ABU3159

How complex is the life of the present age and how much more complex we are making it daily! The needs of humanity seem never to come to an end. The more men accumulate the more they want.  ABU1920

This world is very dark. It shows forth no attributes save that of animal characteristics, for the world of nature is an emanation of the animal kingdom, not an emanation of the world of humanity.  ABU0541

Material and spiritual matters have always advanced hand in hand but at the present time the material side is predominant and the divine principles have been neglected and thrown aside and forgotten.  ABU2747

Material civilization alone does not suffice and does not become the means of acquiring spiritual virtues. Rather, it leads to an increase in wars and disputes and becomes the cause of bloodshed and ruin.   ABU1982

He has made himself a "civilized animal," while the animals are uncivilized. It is regrettable that the world of humanity is subjected to these afflictions; especially these countries that are so well built!   ABU2614

Thus it became clear that the comfort and ease of the human world and the protection and preservation of human society is impossible through civilization alone - rather it must be combined with divine teachings   AB02221

The darkness of materialism has enveloped Europe. Natural civilization has advanced tremendously and progress is magical and by leaps and bounds but the spiritual Sun with all its glorious lights is set below the horizon.   ABU2226

But in Europe: just as sagacious men were graduated from the universities, likewise vicious and malicious men were forthcoming therefrom. The dynamite or bomb, torpedo or other instruments of torture are all results of such education.  ABU1270

"The more the souls advance in material things and the more they act with moderation, the more they can acquire capacity for spirituality. This more sound the body becomes, the more will be the reflection and manifestation of the spirit."  ABU2137

"The mass of the people are occupied with self and worldly desire, are immersed in the ocean of the nether world and are captives of the world of nature, save those souls who have been freed from the chains and fetters of the material world"   AB02185

Whenever mankind live in accord with their own passions and desires and give the rule to the baser propensities of their natures, this world becomes worse than the 'dark abyss of inferno,' which fact is literally true of the present condition  ABU0646

Material education and civilization will not improve the character of humanity. Unlike the teachings of the prophets and the divine civilization the have come to establish, these material measures will not conduce to the edification of humankind.  ABU3688

The doctrine of patriotism has brutalized the civilization of the West and vitiated the ideals of humanity. All the beneficent forces are dethroned and the delicate flowers of the hearts and the minds are withered by the cold wind of modern barbarism.  ABU1224

"The age of technology, of the machine, of the material progress that promises happiness to all, has only just begun with the turn of the century (1900). The triumphal progress of technology is preceded by three heralds: materialism, atheism and mammon!"   ABU0529

Because of material civilization, industry has progressed and sciences and arts have burgeoned but at the same time weapons of war and bloodshed designed for the destruction of the edifice of humanity have multiplied and political problems have vastly increased.  ABU3014

Strange than all the rest is this: that while God has showered his infinite blessings upon the people of this century, yet there are some so-called philosophers who go to the point of denying his existence. God is very patient but even the patience of God has a limit.   ABU0173

Material progress is temporal and vanishing, for no matter how much man may advance, his body shall at last become subject to death... Material progress, regardless of how much one advances, does not yield complete comfort and joy, and its effects are erased and forgotten.  ABU2704

On the other hand, material thoughts are predominant in Europe. Life in the Orient is very simple, very charming, while in the occident it has become very complex and wheels within wheels. Man is not created by God so that he may live a material life like unto the animals.  ABU2385

If one looks at this alleged civilization, which is like unto a mirage, one sees on a superficial level material advancement, but under closer observation one discerns utter moral degeneration. Nevertheless the weak-minded continue to be deceived and the unsuspecting mesmerized.   AB01575

Indeed material civilization is the cause of the emergence of Krupp guns and rifles and dynamite and the like. But spiritual civilization is the cause of the improvement of morals, the promotion of human comfort and tranquility, the illumination of the human world and eternal happiness.  ABU1690

Although the body politic is one family yet because of lack of harmonious relations some members are comfortable and some in direst misery, some members are satisfied and some are hungry, some members are clothed in most costly garments and some families are in need of food and shelter.  ABU0042

The city of Paris is very beautiful, a more civilized and well-appointed town in all material development it would be impossible to find in the present world. But the spiritual light has not shone upon her for a long time: her spiritual progress is far behind that of her material civilization.  ABU0061

Europe has made extraordinary material progress, but if the qualities partake of the dust, what lasting result can accrue? The ideal to strive for is that which is in the supreme horizon - that is eternal! The underground is for worms and moles. That which is a cause for joy is a nest on the highest branch.   ABU0411

The Greeks had philosophers and great men, but while their civilization was full of beauty and was superior to that of the Romans, it was material--neither moral nor spiritual. Think of a monarch like Nero setting fire to a city and playing upon his lyre while it burned! What kind of a civilization was that?   ABU3035

Through material civilization dynamite, Krupp guns, projectiles and Mauser rifles are invented: thus the infernal instruments of human fratricide are multiplied and constantly perfected...All the wolfish bloodshed, all this feverish multiplication of military armaments are the results of material civilization.  ABU1353

I see the people of Paris like bees and ants, coming and going in swarms, moving and stirring like waves, extremely busy - but if you ask what they are doing and why they are moving about, they are completely unaware of their origin and end, and seek no perfection beyond eating, sleeping and immersion in desires.   ABU2975

"Today the body of the world is sick. All nations are raising the banners of a Physician. This divine physician has appeared and pointed out the proper remedy for the world's disease, but the ignorant doctors continue to give various inefficient remedies, and therefore day by day the sickness becomes more dangerous."   ABU1763

Now in Tihran they are beating, killing and cursing each other. They desire civilization, and indeed civil society is a good thing: but it must depend on spiritual education. Otherwise, the outward evidences of civilization are the Krupp cannons, Henry Martin guns and other destructive weapons. This is not a civilization.   ABU0887

if the workers of peace conferences do not apply in their own lives what they advocate, they are like those wine sellers who convene and make emphatic speeches regarding the harmfulness of wine and proposing its prohibition. But when they go out of the meeting, they begin again to sell wine and to do what they were doing in the past.  ABU2858

Today the human world needs heavenly teachings, which are the spirit of this age and light of this century, for material and natural civilization has made extraordinary progress while divine civilization has been completely forgotten. Yet divine civilization is like a lamp and material civilization like the glass. This glass is dark without that lamp.   AB00519

In cities like New York the people are submerged in the sea of materialism. Their sensibilities are attuned to material forces, their perceptions purely physical. The animal energies predominate in their activities; all their thoughts are directed to material things; day and night they are devoted to the attractions of this world, without aspiration beyond the life that is vanishing and mortal.   ABU0572

The world of nature is the prototype of the animal kingdom and the natural instincts of the animals are materialistic. As the world of nature is the embodiment of the animal kingdom and as the instincts of the animals do not go one hair's breath beyond that of that nature, therefore Paris is akin to it. The laws of the animal Kingdom are the laws of the material world and these laws hold a general sway over the minds of the materialistic France.   ABU1927

The civilization extolled by the learned exponents of arts and sciences will, if allowed to overleap the bounds of moderation, bring great evil upon men. Thus doth the All-Knowing inform you. If carried to excess, civilization will prove as prolific a source of evil as it had been of goodness when kept within the restraints of moderation. Meditate upon this, O people, and be not of them that wander distraught. The day is approaching when its blaze will consume the cities   BH00576

Look out upon this great city through which we are passing. Then think of the wealthy men entombed in the ocean's depths. The powers of man in material civilization are wonderful, but all his accomplishments are as nothing,--he, himself, is as non-existent unless he upbuilds in himself the civilization spiritual. Abdul-Baha has no other thought than this. This is his heart, his soul, his station, his service,--to quicken mankind with Divine breaths and walk in the pathway of the Heavenly Kingdom.   ABU0721


Mankind in general is asleep, immersed is the sea of materiality.   ABU1473

I fain would hope that in this centre of materialists, the people of God will flourish and be victorious   AB04379

Like unto the beasts they swallow in the mire of materialism and find no eternal consolation in heavenly objects.  ABU2009

But those who are truly spiritual and are immersed in the sea of God's spiritual Graces, they overcome all things.  ABU1997

"Because those people who travel on the sea of nature are corrupted bodies. The breath of Spirit has no effect in them."  AB04010

"People are submerged in materialism -- that is to say dollarism. The question of dollar is a very important question here."  ABU0208

Although the inhabitants of that city are submerged in the sea of materialism and it may take some time before they are awakened  AB10767

When I came from the East and arrived in these lands, when I reached America, I observed that the nation had progressed greatly in material things - in commerce, in industry, and in material sciences. The country is prosperous in every respect. Similarly in the European countries, material progress is at its zenith and continues to increase day by day. However, I observed that spiritual progress had declined, that heavenly spiritual sensibilities had diminished, that attention to God had lessened, that all hearts were turned to worldly matters. Everyone desires to advance their physical life, acquire worldly wealth, and attain material comfort and ease. In brief, material sensibilities are abundant while heavenly sensibilities are few, and this is so throughout all regions of the world.  ABU0082


This Theosophical Society may become helped and its members gain victory over the pillars of the world of nature who are the materialists of this age.  ABU1997

I wonder how the people can live in such an atmosphere all their lives and be happy, spending their precious time in hunting, and devising new games and pastimes.   ABU3074

And since their sight and vision were confined to material things, they remained unaware of the world of the soul and bereft of signs from the Kingdom of the Beloved  AB01958

Complain not from thy poverty neither glory in thy prosperity. Be not sad from indigence in the means of thy livelihood, neither be thou disconsulate from lack of possessions.  AB02302


if you observe that someone is from among the unjust materialists who are obstinately opposed and does not seek after truth, conversation with such persons is futile and a waste of time  AB08654

How complex is the life of the present age and how much more complex we are making it daily! The needs of humanity seem never to come to an end. The more men accumulate the more they want.  ABU1920

"Material Philosophers say that they perform good deeds and therefore need no religion; not knowing that the very 'Good Deeds' they claim to perform have originally been taught by Divine Prophets."  ABU1525

The materialist or atheist, however, accepts only the first category of things as real or factual, as "existing", and nothing else; how illogically, inconsequentially, how onesidedly and blindly he judges.  ABU0610

Understanding the mysteries deposited in the reality of beings and discovering the complexities of divine questions is evidence of supreme intelligence and power of perception, not becoming a pupil of animals   AB00966

There are two pathways which have been pointed out by the Heavenly Educators. The first is Divine Guidance and reliance upon the Manifestations of God. The other is the road of Materialism and reliance upon the senses. These roads lead in opposite directions. The first leads to the world of the Kingdom; the other ends in the world of human vices, and is contrary to the cause of Divine Guidance. ABU1956

All these people are immersed in worldly matters, and the buildings of the city are like beehives, with people constantly engaged in building and stacking and preparing means of physical comfort, exactly like honeybees   ABU3295

Despite this, the interesting thing is that the materialists, while denying spiritual powers, are themselves engaged in discovering the layers of the earth and are immersed in spiritual power and claim knowledge of future conditions.  ABU2466

I looked hard in the faces of the people but could not find the least sign of spirituality. They were all submerged in the sea of nature. There was not one luminous countenance to be seen. All were engulfed in the ocean of materialism.  ABU0216

Europe is submerged in the ocean of materialism; its inhabitants are even as cows that have busied themselves with grazing in the pasture. They can see nothing at all, for their gaze is ever cast down. America, at least, fares better than they.  ABU3706

Today throughout the world materialistic ideas are widespread and spiritual sensibilities are entirely lacking. Mankind has become immersed in the sea of nature, and a world beyond nature has become inconceivable. Thoughts are focused upon material forces.   ABU0255

Is the materialistic philosophy of this Europe, so much praised by contemporary agnostics and atheists, a philosophy to be admired? Are these people wooers of the spirit? Nay, they have drowned that capacity and are out of touch with the kingdom of reality.  ABU2415

Those people who love Peace, brotherhood, fellowship are either Socialists, freethinkers or agnostics. They have abandoned God and religion; but they are philanthropists, social reformers and they think in this path the regeneration of the world is possible.  ABU0325

Although sovereignty tastes sweet to humans, ultimately disappointment, regret and remorse topple the foundation of joy and weaken the basis of delight. The earthly dust-heap becomes a dark grave, and the confines of the tomb become the dwelling of the prideful ones.   AB04559


My mind was preoccupied last night with the materialist philosophers, and how oblivious they are. Although the new philosophers have conclusively denounced the mistakes of their ancient predecessors, yet they have made their own senses the standard by which they pass judgement.  ABU3701

As a result, the people of this country have strayed entirely from the path of moderation, or fallen victim to the blind imitations and vain imaginings propounded by religious leaders, or clung to the motives of the materialists and arisen in hostility against the people of religion.  ABU3697

"The material man far from God is, at best, a worshipper of humanity but, beyond that, a man of instincts who wants to take but not give, who strives ruthlessly for possessions, for power and means of power (money), who places the value of material goods and material pleasure above all else."   ABU0529

The people are all asleep. Our first duty is to awaken them. Their attention is entirely turned away from God and they must be attracted to the Kingdom. The scroll of Religion has been rolled together. Materialism has superseded and the reason is that the spiritual leaders have given up the original methods of the Prophets and become occupied with their own desires... They have no thought save the pleasures and the tastes of this world. Divine confirmations have been severed from them. They have become weak and materialists have taken advantage of this condition. The first duty is to direct the attention of hearts to God. This is not possible unless souls are holy, eloquent and awake day and night, supplicating and imploring. ABU1704

The world of humanity is submerged in the ocean of darkness, ignorance, lust and passion. They are in the bondage of worldliness and tied with baser attachments. They are not thinking for one moment to attain to the good-pleasure of the Lord. They have smeared their wings with every form of clay.   ABU0603

The real materialist is the animal. Compared to the animal, man is but a tyro and novice in materialism. The animal is a natural materialist. He does not mention God and knows nothing about the Kingdom. He depends solely upon sense perception. That which is not perceptible to the senses he rejects.  ABU2865

Europeans have only recently sensed that beyond these material worlds there exist spiritual realms, though they have not yet properly comprehended them. The day shall come in Europe when, if you were to attribute materialism to someone, they would weep and be mortified that such ignorance could be ascribed to them.   ABU0551

It has been proven to philosophers and intellectuals of Europe and America that breaking the power of materialistic teachings is impossible except through the teachings of Baha'u'llah, otherwise the world is doomed, for materialistic teachings are spreading their wings swiftly in Russia and will flow to other regions of Europe   AB12091

The materialists and atheists declare that this order and symmetry is due to nature and its forces; that composition and decomposition which constitute life and existence are exigencies of nature; that man himself is an exigency of nature; that nature rules and governs creation; and that all existing things are captives of nature.  ABU0122

In these days, the foul odor of materialists has wafted through all lands. Souls must be protected, especially children and youth, under the shelter of divine guidance, for noxious odors surely torment the nostrils and bring weariness to one's being. No matter how strong one's constitution, harm and languor will inevitably result.   AB00185

Observe how darkness has overspread the world. In every corner of the earth there is strife, discord and warfare of some kind. Mankind is submerged in the sea of materialism and occupied with the affairs of this world. They have no thought beyond earthly possessions and manifest no desire save the passions of this fleeting, mortal existence.  ABU0158

The world of materialism has enveloped these regions. People are submerged in this sea. I hope that these fish who unheedingly swim in the ocean may raise their heads for a while out of the water so that they may observe the things which are in the outer world. ABU2484

These foolish ones worship nature while denying its Creator. They prostrate to dust while objecting to the Lord of Lords. They imagine themselves to be philosophers of the earth, pillars of wisdom, and paragons of virtue. Yet in reality they are but riffraff who follow every crier, swaying with every wind. Leave them in their idle discourse, playing.   AB03841

The world for the most part is sunk in materialism, and the blessings of the Holy Spirit are ignored. There is so little real spiritual feeling, and the progress of the world is for the most part merely material. Men are becoming like unto beasts that perish, for we know that they have no spiritual feeling -- they do not turn to God, they have no religion!  ABU0502

O Son of Being! Busy not thyself with this world, for with fire We test the gold, and with gold We test Our servants. Yet now the love of gold has so seized the greedy that they have abandoned religion, and day and night they busy themselves with amassing it contrary to divine command and heavenly decree. They show no mercy either to themselves or to others.  BH11657

The materialists of Europe are not like the materialists of Iran. They listen to what is said and if you prove something they become convinced. But not so the materialists of Iran. For example, they ask why mountains are high and the earth's surface is flat. When you prove that, they ask why it rains on the sea. When you prove that too, they fabricate another nonsense.  ABU0888

The power of materialism has prevailed and is in the ascendancy. Spiritual susceptibilities are lingering behind; the knowledge of God has not remained; the powers that discover the realities of phenomena are not manifest. The larger part of the world of humanity, like unto animals, is captive in the claws of nature. They cannot comprehend what is said to them regarding the spiritual world.   ABU0116

I see the people like bees or ants, coming and going by troops, surging past like waves, continually engrossed in their business. But if you should ask them, 'What are you doing? Why all this commotion?' you would find that they know nothing at all of their origin or their end, and that they look for no other good except eating and sleeping and assiduously pandering to their sensual desires.   ABU3069

Although the heedless ones of Persia desire to follow the materialists of the West and wish to imitate the naturalists of Europe, they are unaware of their principles and foundations, and are ignorant of their proofs, arguments, subjects and predicates. The Europeans are investigators in natural philosophy according to their own thoughts and opinions, while the Persian naturalists are mere imitators.  AB00060

In schools and temples of learning knowledge of the sciences acquired is based upon material observations only; there is no realization of Divinity in their methods and conclusions -- all have reference to the world of matter. They are not interested in attaining knowledge of the mysteries of God or understanding the secrets of the heavenly Kingdom; what they acquire is based altogether upon visible and tangible evidences.   ABU0572

The professors and learned scientists of materialism glory in the evidences that the ape is the progenitor of humanity and make exhaustive efforts to discover proof of it. If we should ask the ape, he would say "Unquestionably we are all one,--of this I am certain without the aid of scientific inquiry, ethnological proof, biological deductions or geological findings; I believe what I see"--for the ape is a real, a true materialist.  ABU2804

Unlike the people of certain cities, the inhabitants of this place are not immersed in the sea of materialism. They are endowed with constancy and spiritual perception. However, there are some cities whose residents are so deeply absorbed in the world of nature that they are wholly bereft of spiritual perception. They occupy themselves with eating, resting, dancing and amusement. They are entirely unaware of the kingdom of heaven.   ABU2340

It has reached to such a pass that if in any meeting or congregation the names of "God," "religions," "spirituality," "Immortality" are mentioned sleep overtake the audience and they will manifest the signs of ennui, tedium and listlessness. They do not desire to listen to spiritual discourses, and if they are forced into a listening attitude they will forget everything immediately and walk again in the same beaten tracks of materialism and agnosticism.  ABU0159

All the animals are materialists. They are deniers of God and without realization of a transcendent power in the universe. They have no knowledge of the divine Prophets and Holy Books -- mere captives of nature and the sense world. In reality they are like the great philosophers of this day who are not in touch with God and the Holy Spirit -- deniers of the Prophets, ignorant of spiritual susceptibilities, deprived of the heavenly bounties and without belief in the supernatural power.   ABU0104

In New York I find the people more endowed with spiritual susceptibilities. They are not mere captives of nature's control; they are rising out of the bonds and burden of captivity. Paris is most beautiful in outward appearance. The evidences of material civilization there are very great, but the spiritual civilization is far behind. I found the people of that city submerged and drowning in a sea of materialism. Their conversations and discussions were limited to natural and physical phenomena, without mention of God.  ABU0405

From morning till evening, they run hither and thither, working and laboring, [sweating] and striving! All their thoughts and ideals are weighed by the measures of Francs. The man who has one hundred Francs does his utmost to make it a thousand. The person who has one thousands works like a beaver to make it ten thousand. The ten thousand man has his eyes fixed on a million; and the millionaire with the greatest avidity longs to become a multi-millionaire. All of them are submerged in this sea of insatiable hunger for gold.   ABU0985

There are many heralds in this world. Here is a herald who summons the people to the love and defence of his county, calling out at the top of his voice: 'O my country, O my beloved country!' There is a herald who blows the bugle of New Nationalism. Here is another herald who calls the people to politics, in order that he may wield great powers of state. There is another person who is a herald of literature and science. Here you find a soul who is the herald of the commercial interests and its expansion. And there is still another herald who sounds the trumpet of war and militarism.  ABU1323


One day in a scholarly gathering he spoke where some of those present were hardcore naturalists who prided themselves saying "We spent years studying sciences and investigating until we understood that these religious beliefs and spiritual thoughts are human delusions. Thank God we are free from such thoughts. There is no world except the physical world. We have absolutely no belief in God or spirituality. We are pure materialists." A group of such people were present. In this discussion he said "Now, is unawareness of the Divine Reality, lack of belief, and inability to perceive spiritual things evidence of intellectual power? If so, then other animals are the wisest of the wise, for they have no perception except of material things. Being captive to the senses, they have no awareness of God and are completely heedless and oblivious of spiritual things. Therefore, His Holiness the Cow is the greatest philosopher, for it has no knowledge of God, knows nothing of spiritual matters, and believes only in sensible things. The materialist philosophers have labored and studied sciences to attain the perfection and perception that the cow possesses, while His Holiness the Cow has this perfection innately. Therefore it is superior. In short, being a cow is easy; being human is difficult. Understanding the mysteries deposited in the reality of beings and discovering the complexities of divine questions is evidence of supreme intelligence and power of perception, not becoming a pupil of animals." AB00966
