There are two Books: One is the Book of Creation and the other is the written Book. The written Book consisteth of the heavenly Books which are revealed to the Prophets of God and have issued forth from the lips of His Manifestations. The Book of Creation is the preserved Tablet and the outspread roll of existence. The Book of Creation is in accord with the written Book. In the written Book thou canst find chapters and verses, words and letters; and inner meanings and mysteries are hidden therein. Likewise the Book of Creation is the command of God and the repository of divine mysteries. In it there are great signs, universal images, perfect words, exalted symbols, and secrets of all things, whether of the past or of the future. When thou readest the written Book thou wilt become aware of the mysteries of God, but when thou gazest at the Book of Creation thou wilt observe the signs, symbols, realities, and reflections of the hidden mysteries of the bounties of His Holiness the Incomparable One.… It is thus clear and evident that in the world of the Holy Writ there are letters, words, and verses, and likewise in the world of creation there are letters, words, and verses.... The essence of our meaning is that creation is in accord with the written word, and this is certain.  AB00170

Christ was the Spirit, others are bodies.  AB10306


This earthly body has no significance; what matters is the reality and heart of the human being which must maintain spiritual connection.  ABU0209

For the Book there are meanings beyond counting, and likewise volumes beyond number. One volume thereof is the world itself, and the world itself is reckoned as a Book. It is that Book which encompasses all things and all regions of the world. One Book is inscribed by the Pen of Power and Creation, and one Book is written by the pen of the servants. "All things have We recorded in a clear Book." But this Book hath been revealed and sent down from the Supreme Pen, and the power of the Supreme Pen transcendeth all reckoning. It hath arisen before all faces with such an arising that no sitting could seize it, and neither ranks nor multitudes nor severity nor wrath could hold it back from its mighty, prevailing purpose. And one Book is [mentioned] in the Crimson Scroll, and it is specifically concerned with the mention of the gems of existence - they who regard the world as one country and who move amongst all with spirit and fragrance.  BH02081

That state of matter which is the cause of the equilibrium and perfection of the body is that perfect and balanced nature obtainable through the composition and mixture of the elements. It is physical and not spiritual. But the intellect, which discovereth the realities of things, is a spiritual nature and is not physical. Therefore, the animal is deprived of it, for it is specialized to man. The animal is able to perceive sensible realities, but man is able to perceive intelligible realities. It is evident then that the intellect is a spiritual faculty and not a physical one.   AB00567

Material advantages do not elevate the spirit of a man. Perfection in worldly things is a joy to the body of a man but in no wise does it glorify his soul. It may be that a man who has every material benefit, and who lives surrounded by all the greatest comfort modern civilization can give him, is denied the all important gift of the Holy Spirit. It is indeed a good and praiseworthy thing to progress materially, but in so doing, let us not neglect the more important spiritual progress, and close our eyes to the Divine light shining in our midst.  ABU0419

To illustrate: thou seest this glass or this water and thou dost comprehend in a subjective manner their constituent parts. On the other hand thou cans't not see Love, Intellect, hate, Anger, Sorrow but thou dost recognize them in a subjective way through their signs and manifestations. The first is material, the second is spiritual. The first is outward, the second is intuitive.   ABU1863

The physical have no permanence, but the spiritual endure  AB10155

Our work concerns the heart and soul, not water and clay.   AB03089

This material world has an outward appearance, as it has also an inner reality.  ABU2460

There are two kinds of understandings: subjective and objective. To illustrate: thou seest this glass or this water and thou dost comprehend in a subjective manner their constituent parts. On the other hand thou cans't not see Love, Intellect, hate, Anger, Sorrow but thou dost recognize them in a subjective way through their signs and manifestations. The first is material, the second is spiritual. The first is outward, the second is intuitive. I hope that thou may'st make great advancement in the second kind of understanding.  ABU1863

Know thou, verily, the brilliant realities and sanctified spirits are likened to a shining crescent. It has one face turned toward the Sun of Truth, and another face opposite to the contingent world. The journey of this crescent in the heaven of the universe ends in (becoming) a full moon. That is, that face of it which is turned toward the divine world becomes also opposite to the contingent world, and by this, both its merciful and spiritual, as well as contingent, perfections become complete.  AB10788

The body of man is created for this world, but his heart is made for the habitation of the Holy Spirit   ABU3244


the life and existence of earthly persons compared to heavenly life and existence cannot be called life.  ABU1666

This world is like unto ant-houses...Eternal happiness is all-inclusive. In it is embraced material happiness.  ABU2621

This outward eye shall turn to dust, but the inner vision shall remain eternal and steadfast in the pure world.  AB07927

The advance step now is to learn the expansion of the inflexible law of matter into the subtler kingdom of spirit   ABU2410

That world is sanctified from the characteristics, conditions, and inherent requirements of this contingent existence.  AB11382

"We do not interfere with their material food, but we shall give them a simple diet of spiritual food. This is our work."  ABU3478

although outwardly thou art composed of material elements, yet spiritually thou mayest become composed of heavenly elements   AB04955

Physical likeness is mortal; merciful characteristics are immortal. Spirit is the Grace of God. Body is an earthly compound.  AB11116

Everything save man has one condition, but man has two. This world is dark and in darkness, but the Spiritual World is Light. This is the Heavenly Kingdom.   ABU1999

The spirit of the world is that of avarice, selfishness and envy, while that of the Kingdom is mercy, unselfishness and love.  ABU0217

Although physical realities exist in distant regions, yet pure essences are free from the limitations of nearness and remoteness  AB11339

Vast and expansive is the realm of the spirit, not of bodies, and spacious and extensive is the field of the heart, not this prison.  AB12569

"They seek deliverance from the cage of this mortal realm and search for life in the expansive atmosphere of the heavenly Kingdom."   AB05723

The people did not know of the spiritual kingdom of Jesus Christ, but they were waiting for a man to come who had a material kingdom.  ABU1341


"These things about here that you have pictured will all pass away, but the true picture is the one you take on the mirror of the heart."   ABU3065

It as though the trees, the rocks, the sea, the grass, the stars hold communion with man and whisper into his ears the secrets of nature.   ABU1430

The world of existence is like the human body - material forces are like its organs and parts. But this body needs a spirit to animate it   ABU0690

A material man lets himself be worried and harassed by little things but a spiritual man is always calm and serene under all circumstances.   ABU3559

Birth into consciousness of another world begins here, a world for which this physical and material one is but the preparation and foundation.  ABU3236

Pay not attention to things material but reach after the Spirit. May the world be for you no obstacle hiding the Sun of Truth from your sight   ABU2529

The pictures which are in the ideal world are eternal. Man can paint those ideal pictures upon the Tablet of existence with the brush of deeds.  ABU2866

"like unto swift-flying birds, are soaring in this unbounded realm. They are awake and vigilant, they shun the obscurity of the world of nature"   AB02185

"But you do not lose it when you attain the spiritual. When you go upstairs in a house you do not leave the house. The lower floor is under you."   ABU3047

the relationship between the outer and inner, and the physical and spiritual, is like that between a drop and the ocean, or a speck and the desert  AB06718

although in this physical world its greatness is not perceivable, nor its nature clearly known, yet in the spiritual world it shineth like the sun.  AB03773






The world of dust becomes illumined by the stars of heaven, but the soul and heart of man become luminous through the rays of the Most Great Luminary  AB09810

the souls, when rescued from the ephemeral world, find another reality. They become heavenly realities, sanctified and purged from worldly limitations.  AB01847

When a man is born into the world of phenomena he finds the universe; when he is born from this world to the world of the spirit, he finds the Kingdom.  ABU2403

But praise be to God, the world of existence does not culminate here. If this were so, existence itself would be sterile. There are many worlds of light.  ABU1155

"That is not what I said," the Master replied. "I said that the spiritual man and the materialist were two different beings. The spirit is in the flesh."   ABU3454

Victory is of two kinds: material and spiritual. Material victory is not so important but spiritual victory is conducive to the life of the world of humanity.  AB09115

You are the child of God and of the Kingdom, and the ties of the flesh are nothing, but the ties of the Spirit are all. We are your brothers and your sisters   ABU1529

in all days the realities of all things are present before the Divine Throne and recount what has befallen them, but people are unaware and do not comprehend.   BH05687

You do not travel on earth but take flight. There were many Jewish scholars, but they were earthbound, while Saint Paul was heavenly - this is why he could fly.   AB02740

Such souls though apparently earthy yet in reality they are heavenly; their body is of the phenomenal world and yet their spirit (emanated) from the world of God.  AB06377

this is the expansive realm of the Kingdom of the Creator-King, and the vast arena of the world of spirit and dominion, with its bounties, bestowals and insight.   AB04835

What is needed is to rise above the material to the realms of the purely Spiritual. Table-turning and such like were material, a natural result, and not spiritual.  ABU3265

His Holiness, the Christ, the Holy Manifestations and the apostles possessed no nest whatsoever in this mortal world but in the universe of God, a glorious palace.   AB02843

The result of such a feast is the spirituality of the souls and the upliftment of the minds, while the outcome of the material feasts are temporal and superficial.   ABU2896

Bodily illness can be cured with a purgative, mixture, paste or tonic, but inner diseases and spiritual illnesses cannot be cured with a hundred thousand treatments   AB07364

When a man's heart is free, and on fire with the love of God, every material benefit, every physical advantage, will only serve to develop his spiritual perfections   ABU3410

The hearts of the poor are sensitive; the hearts of the rich are hard. But if a rich man be compassionate, he is very near to God, for he has come out of temptation.  ABU2083

If such is what will take place in this visible world, then imagine what it will be in the spiritual realms of God, so exalted above the comprehension of all beings.   AB06523

Divine music exhilarates the Spirit while earthly music has an effect over the body. Divine music belong to the Kingdom of God; earthly music is of this mundane world.   ABU3104

However, the oppressed ones of the All-Merciful, through divine power, brought the face of the earth into the curve of their polo stick and occupied themselves with heaven.  AB04768

and this although his sciences pertained to the contingent world. Now thou should ask God that thou might receive a mighty portion from the sciences of the Supreme Kingdom   AB07187

they appear as though they were created to serve the material world, rather than the material world being created for their service and the manifestation of human perfections  ABU2996

Whosoever turns to the Kingdom must neither be affected by poverty or wealth, for such a one possesses the treasures of the Kingdom, and whoever possesses this is never poor.  ABU0514

"Though thou art physically sick and ill, praise be to God thou art spiritually sound and healthy...as they were blessed with true spiritual health, they paid no heed to it."   AB07554

The human body is in reality very weak; there is no physical body more delicately constituted... But in the proportion that the human body is weak, the spirit of man is strong.   ABU0825

They say that had there been a spiritual world they would have sensed it. But, as a matter of fact, inability to sense a thing is not a proof of the nonexistence of that thing.   ABU3156

There are two kinds of assistance: Material assistance and spiritual assistance. Material assistance is limited to one locality and place but spiritual assistance is measureless.  ABU1580

May this dusty earth become a luminous realm and this world of dust take on the form of the celestial spheres - that is, may it be illumined by a radiant star and a heavenly host  AB10388

my hope is that you will promote heavenly arts and spread the sciences of the Divine Spirit, and become confirmed with such power that you will excel all the illumined philosophers  AB05794

"I hope you will find heavenly illumination in this material world and save souls from the darkness of nature, which is the animal world, and lead them to the lofty human stations."  AB00369

Civilization is like unto the body. Spirituality is like the soul. A body without spirit is unprofitable, though it should be of the utmost beauty, while without spirit, it is as nothing.  ABU1517

The Spiritual Food is prepared! Blessed are those who eat therefrom. Material food is not important. Nowadays mankind give more importance to their material sustenance than spiritual Food.   ABU0371

I live on this earth; make me heavenly. I am of this world; make me of the world of the realm of might. I exist in this world of darkness; make me illumined. I am material; make me spiritual  AB11117

The results of material sciences are limited. They train only the physical man...The results of divine science, the guidance of God, the spiritual Arts are unlimited and train the real man.   ABU2741

Man must fly from the cage of the body and become pure spirit, for the body is a cage that casts man into great difficulties, makes him captive to nature, and afflicts him with every ailment.  ABU0677

In the world of humanity the "Commonwealth of the Kingdom" is being organized and from this "collective Center," merciful emotions and light-beaming rays are being diffused to all directions.   AB01098

Although this station among the tribes and clans is lofty and honored, yet the chieftainship of heavenly tribes and the leadership of spiritual clans has another station and a different glory.  AB04585

The conditions of the world are physical and their importance are according to the importance of the physical life. Therefore I hope you will find spiritual success whose importance is eternal.  ABU2622

Verily the body is composed of physical elements, and every composite must needs be decomposed. The spirit, however, is a single essence, fine and delicate, incorporeal, everlasting, and of God.  AB01866

The song of that one is but sound and cry, while the strain of this one embodies realities and meanings. Consider how great is the difference! "Are those who know equal with those who know not?"  AB04655

These physical conditions endure at most only as long as the body remains, then they perish and are forgotten. But spiritual perfections and virtues remain forever - therein lies the importance.  ABU2071

its rays extend from the unseen realm to the visible plane and become a bounty of existence. Soon you will observe even in this material world how brilliant and effulgent are the rays of that star.  AB07200

Only the spirit is real; everything else is as shadow. All bodies are disintegrated in the end; only reality subsists. All physical perfections come to an end; but the divine virtues are infinite.   ABU1890

Though the earthly lamp in our nest and shelter is extinguished, we have a heavenly lamp. Though we are deprived of physical pleasures, we have an abundant share of spiritual sweetness and delight.  AB00334

If a physical journey does not occur, be assured that a spiritual journey will take place. I will meet you there with heart and soul, for I too long to meet you and behold you with my physical eyes.  AB03715

Although they consider the wine and bread in the church as the blood and body of Christ, yet this is but the appearance and not the reality. But the reality of Christ is the words of the Holy Spirit.   AB03738

This world is confined, but the invisible realm is vast and expansive. Therefore, one must turn to that realm so that grace may reach from all directions - nay, rather, sanctified from all directions.   AB06866

Another who looks at trees. He thinks of the effect and energy of the sun the effect of the breeze that blows; the influence and effect of rain' who has educated these trees. Viewpoints are different.   ABU1400

Whatever is experienced by the outward body deriveth from this lower and inferior world, and whatever is perceived and witnessed by the eye of the soul and inward vision deriveth from the supernal world.  AB04360

You understand there is spiritual healing and material healing, and unless these two work together, a cure is impossible. The material healing is surgery and medicine, and the spiritual healing is of God.   ABU2881

The divine friends are the crowned rulers of the realm of inner meanings, and when they conceal their faces from the earthly kingdom, they shall adorn themselves with crown and diadem in the radiant world.  AB08130

Now Europe in reality is in the utmost beauty and adornment. Material civilization has advanced greatly. It is a body in the utmost of comeliness, but regrettable it is that it is not animated by the spirit.   ABU1673

Paris is like a very large, clean stable where many millions of horses are well-fed, well-kept and well-trained; but you do not expect to find spirituality, the Knowledge of God, the Love of God in a stable.   ABU3235

Jesus Christ had two bodies--one spiritual and one material. The material body is of no importance. It changes and changes always. An old person's body is not the same as that of the same individual when young.  ABU1136

The body is quickened by this food, but by the spiritual food, the spirit is quickened. The first is for giving power and force to the body, whilst the essential food is for giving power and force to the spirit.  ABU2373

The body of man is the result of the composition of the elements and these elements are constantly at war with each other. But the spirit of man is from the world of God. In the world of God there is no strife.   ABU2931

But as to those who deprive themselves of the Spiritual Table and of the Fragrance of the Spirit of God, they are dead and devoid of life. There is no immortality for them in this world nor in the kingdom of God.  AB03882

In the realm of material existence, the sovereign of passion holds sway, and in the diseased clime of the carnal self, the evil king of pride wears the crown. But in the world of spirit, the Lord God is the Ruler.   AB07547

And this material universe, no matter how great it becomes, grows and expands, is naught but a ray shining from the spiritual worlds, a drop from oceans, surging within the realities of souls and the spiritual world  AB00326

In the material world there is nothing but lethargy, rigidity and coldness, but the heat of the Sun of Truth rising from the horizon of the Kingdom will dispel this coldness and perfect the warmth of the love of God.   AB12110

the physical world is a strange confinement - all its affairs are slow, and at most only a few steps can be taken in each breath. But the spirit traverses East and West in an instant. Consider how different these are!  AB05700

Civilization is very good and perfection in every matter is praiseworthy, but material civilization must not become a barrier to divine civilization and spiritual education, rather it must be supportive and reinforcing.  ABU2168

The real Christ came from the city of light in the eternal realms...Christ conquered the east and the west. This means a spiritual victory, not a material one...for the heaven is not a place but a state of consciousness.  ABU0875

San Francisco has capacity -- capacity for many things. It has both material and spiritual capacity, and is progressive. Just as this city is achieving material progress I am hopeful that it may also achieve ideal progress  ABU1906

Only by improving spiritually as well as materially can we make any real progress, and become perfect beings. It was in order to bring this spiritual life and light into the world that all the great Teachers have appeared.  ABU0419

"There is a kind of food which needs neither knife nor fork and of which every one may partakes with perfect ease and benefit. It is the food spiritual. This food brings life and stimulation instead of indolence and apathy."  ABU2642

O servant of God! Physical height and loftiness is an imaginary and relative matter - indeed it is comparative and contingent. True elevation is in the realm of the spirit, and real loftiness is in the world of consciousness.  AB10390

This pertains to the world of physical existence, but even more magnificent than this, in the realm of realities and meanings, the divine handiwork hath a wondrous radiance - such perfection that the wise are left bewildered.  AB09263

For nearness in the mortal realm is often followed by remoteness in the Kingdom, and physical union is pursued by spiritual separation. But this spiritual union's attribute is eternity and its characteristic is everlastingness.  AB05223

This is a world of blindness, deafness, nothingness; the other world is a world of seeing, hearing, reality. This is a world of death, that of life. Man knows nothing in this world; the spiritual world is a world of revelation.  ABU0892

But humans, through their rational faculties and conscientious feelings, have been distinguished from other creatures so they may delve into spiritual matters, discover the realities of things, be attracted to the Supreme Kingdom   ABU1925

Therefore, both of these have their provinces. Hence, both of them should be used -- both the one material and the other the spiritual. Neither of them has to be given up. Use both of them. Do not limit. Use both, and get results.   ABU0060


This power (or reign) is in the world of hearts and spirits and not in that of matter (or bodies). For the material world is not comparable to a single wing of a fly, or rather less in the sight of thy Lord, wert thou of those who know!  AB04541

Although in the divine scriptures mention is made of a heaven and an earth other than the physical heaven and earth, yet they have interpreted these signs literally and have deprived themselves of spiritual worlds and divine knowledge.   ABU2981

The light is divided into two kinds, material and spiritual. The material light is a vanishing matter and is known by etheric vibrations. But the spiritual light is the divine, eternal and never-ending quality and is a truth of the Kingdom.  AB10179

No matter how much the world of humanity advances in material civilization, it is nevertheless in need of the spiritual development mentioned in the Gospel. The virtues of the material world are limited, whereas divine virtues are unlimited.  ABU1034

promote the principles of the sublimity of the human world, which is loftier than this fictitious heaven, and spread the light of the Luminary of the Merciful Universe, which is more radiant and luminous than the stars studded in yon blue dome  AB07844

"There are two kinds of Love - the material and the spiritual. Material love means the attachment of men to each other, whether it be friendship or any other relation and it always ends in grief, for the spiritual love is the only enduring love."  ABU0709

In this station the inward is the outward itself, and the outward the very inward. And in one of the Tablets there hath been revealed something even beyond this station, namely: "The inward of the inward of the inward unto whatsoever God willeth,"  BH04414

The sword has been working over six thousand years and has become dull. We must look about us for another sword to take its place. This one is temporal in action and effect; the other is eternal. This one is of metal; that one is the Love of God.   ABU2525

They dwelt in the mineral world yet sought to discover the power of growth and plants. They lived in the vegetable realm yet craved the qualities of sensitive bodies. They pitched their tent in the animal sphere yet yearned to discover human reality  AB01958

This material world is very dark, and this handful of dust is very narrow. I hope that the doors of divine worlds may be opened before your faces, that you may soar up in a space whose lights are eternal, enter a garden whose fruits are everlasting   ABU1456

The search for earthly treasures befits the people of the earthly realm, not the sons and daughters of the Kingdom... The earthly treasure comes to an end and causes physical life, but the treasure of the Kingdom is endless and causes spiritual life.   AB04049

However, this earnest striving bore no fruit and this intense searching yielded no benefit, and this eye will ultimately go blind and descend to the grave. So come, prepare an eye medicine from the jewels of divine mines and the pearls of divine wisdom  AB11881

Yes, name and fame are blessed, but only in the divine world; reputation and renown are acceptable, but only in the Kingdom of God. For in that realm the name is identical with the named, and the attribute is the very reality of that which is described.  AB07685

The primary intent is to kindle these stirrings of the spirit, but at the same time it follows quite naturally that those present should partake of food, so that the world of the body may mirror the spirit's world, and flesh take on the qualities of soul  AB02048

It is my hope that you may be the means of changing this wild jungle of materialism into a fruitful orchard, this thorny thicket into a rose garden. May Europe become the divine university wherein heavenly sciences and divine arts are taught and learned!   ABU1290

The spirit of man which is the effulgence of God and the eternal Bestowal of the Almighty has importance. We must think of the health of the spirit more than the body. What importance lies in the glass! We must think of the light which illumines the glass.   ABU1447

"There is no way for the world to be cured of its ills except through the divine physician, because it is likened into a sick body, while the spiritual teachings are likened into the remedy, it being evident that without the spirit the body will not revive."   ABU1763

Thou art a bird of the shelter of divine unity, and thy true nest is on the branches of the Tree beyond which there is no passing. Even though thou are utterly bereft of hearth and home in the path of God, thy true habitation is beneath His divine sanctuary.   AB07569

Laughter is an ideal condition and not physical. Happiness and misery are super-sensuous phenomena. One cannot see happiness with his own eyes. It is not a tangible thing. One cannot hear it or touch it with his ears and hands. Happiness is a spiritual state.  ABU2694

The East has always been able, through the aid of a spiritual power, to withstand the West and ultimately prevail over them. When the companions of Christ were subjected to the torture of the Romans, they saw themselves as powerful and victorious over the world.  ABU3671

Their allowance and stipend is from the mineral and vegetable kingdoms which fill the plains and wilderness. But your allowance and stipend consists of hidden pearls and protected gems that have been nurtured in the shell of grace in the depths of the sea of truth  AB04148

The All Glorious God has vouchsafed infinite bounty to the world of man and he has made man to be the descending place of heavenly grace. So in spite of all this bounty why does he attach his heart to this ephemeral world and close his eyes to the spiritual world?  AB00868

"This material food was very simple, just enough for life, but that the spiritual food was varied and abundant. This material food would last for about five hours, and tomorrow we should again be hungry, but the spiritual food was eternal and would forever satisfy."  ABU2954

His intention is destruction, and it is divided into two parts, one physical and the other spiritual. The physical abomination of desolation is the razing and destroying of buildings. The spiritual abomination of desolation is the destruction of the teachings of GOD.  ABU2914

If property was plundered it matters not, for it is like waves - naturally one day it scatters and is pillaged, and verily thy Lord is the All-Providing, the All-Knowing...physical bounties bring hardness while divine breezes cause the attainment of hearing and sight.  AB01697

There are many physical painters who draw with utmost skill, but you are both a physical painter and a spiritual painter. You paint spiritual images with utmost skill and love, and those spiritual images are faith, assurance, and firmness in the Covenant and Testament.  AB04740

Sex, in its relation to the exigencies of the physical plane, has no connection with the Spirit. In this age of spiritual awakening, the world has entered upon the path of progress into the arena of development, where the power of the spirit surpasses that of the body.   ABU3028

Although I am far away from thee in body, still I am near unto thee in spirit. But I ask God that the body will follow the spirit and our meeting will be facilitated. The most essential thing is the spiritual relation, the hearty friendship and the heavenly attraction.   AB00964

If thou wouldst hearken to the divine counsel detach thyself from all such thoughts and sanctify thyself utterly from all these contaminations. Seek for the servitude of the Abha Beauty alone so that thou mayest be a prince amongst princes and a ruler in the world above.  AB07522

The adorning of the earthly crown is mineral gems and stones. The embellishment of this other crown are the spiritual jewels of the Kingdom of God. That earthly reign is the cause of pain and afflictions. But this other sovereignty is all happiness, joy and glad tidings.  AB08043

no physician can yet definitively judge that this theriac will certainly benefit this patient. Therefore, come and be a spiritual physician so that you may observe with certainty that the divine theriac and the greatest heavenly medicine are the cure for spiritual diseases  AB04347

"To what an astounding degree people are attached to their digestive organ! They are more captivated with appetizing, toothsome dishes than attracted to God, their Creator. They are deprived of all the spiritual nutriments, and strange to state, they do not feel its need."  ABU0814

Life is of two kinds: physical and spiritual. The first belongs to the realm of vain imaginings and is like the waves of a mirage, while the second is the outpouring of the clouds and is like a sweet and flowing sea. That one is a passing shadow, and this one a shining star.  AB08256

The important factor in human improvement is the mind. In the world of the mind there must needs be development and improvement. There must be reformation in the kingdom of the human spirit; otherwise, no result will be attained from betterment of the mere physical structure.  ABU0079

You are not her physical children. You are the children of her heart and her spirit and undoubtedly spiritual children are of greater importance than physical children. There is no doubt that such children are of greater importance, especially a child that is born of pure spirit.   ABU0629

Disease and illness are characteristics of the physical world, while health and well-being are among the subtle gifts of the divine realm. The body is like glass and the spirit like a lamp. If the glass becomes weakened, praise be to God the lamp is in its highest state of burning.  AB08176

Know that this material world is the mirror of the Kingdom, and each of these worlds is in complete correspondence with the other. The world in which the soul resideth is perpetual and unchanging. It is a spiritual world; it is the world of the Kingdom, which is eternal and everlasting.  AB00457

Even as the life giving fragrances of the new garden revives the hearts of the birds of the Kingdom and leaves the earthworms and dung beetles unaffected, so too those rays that beam forth from the Sun of Truth illumine the eyes of the light-loving salamander and blind the weak-eyed bats.  AB05072

every soul that belonged to the world of nature - that is, whose element of existence was purely earthly - remained completely veiled and deprived. Every soul that belonged to the divine realm and whose existence partook of the element of the Kingdom turned towards it and beheld its lights  AB06614

Man erroneously thinks his happiness comes from the world and for that reason he is always unhappy and in difficulty. For example, a man in poverty thinks if he were rich, he would be happy, but after attaining wealth he still finds himself unhappy and often in the very depths of sadness.   ABU1711

Thankful, the birds of the spirit seek only to fly in the high heavens and to sing out their songs with wondrous art. But the pitiable earthworms love only to tunnel into the ground, and what a mighty struggle they make to get themselves down into its depths! Even so are the sons of earth.  AB02868

Disease is of two kinds: (a) Material (b) Spiritual. For instance, a cut of the hand; if you pray for the cut to be healed, and do not stop it bleeding, you will not do much good, this needs a material remedy. Sometimes if the nervous system is paralyzed through fear, a spiritual remedy is necessary.   ABU2530


Undoubtedly, all means are non-existent and all ways are lost save divine power, heavenly might, celestial dominion and spiritual ascendancy. This indeed is a force that resisteth every onslaught, scattereth every host, disperseth every obstinate foe, and routeth all armies, as occurred in ancient times.  AB00192

The most important food is the spiritual food. This material food must be eaten three times a day, but whosoever eats of the spiritual food shall never hunger. The spiritual food is the love of God, the Knowledge of God, attraction with the Breathes of the Holy Spirit and abstraction from material desires.  ABU1503


They replied that from these gifts the physical taste is sweetened for a moment and the earthly palate receives a temporary flavor. I need a gift from the divine world and an offering from the jewels of truth and meaning that will delight the taste of the spirit and gratify the palate of the heart and soul.   AB05765

If ye had given the treasures of the whole world ye could not obtain this most great bounty. Consider that Mr Morgan, the American Multi-millionaire died and left behind his wealth but ye shall never die, ye are always living in the Kingdom of Abha and the traces of your faith and assurance shall ever live.   ABU1712

The worldly soul is closely bound to the world of dust and is far removed from the beauty of the celestial world. The divine soul is an intimate of the self-subsistent Lord and is privy to the world of mystery. The earthly soul returneth to the earth, whilst the divine soul returneth unto the Lord of lords.   AB07352

Though the physical eye was prevented from beholding His enchanting countenance, the eye of the spirit is illumined by the lights of His divine Beauty. And though the outward ear was deprived of hearing His blessed words, the ear of the soul is delighting in the call to awareness from His most glorious Kingdom.   AB06940

The sciences, both divine and material, should be taught, in order that the students may discover material realities and the realities of the Kingdom, for material sciences are as the body and divine sciences are as the spirit. The body must live by the spirit. If the spirit does not exist the body then is dead.  ABU0010

I have two arts, one physical the other spiritual. The physical one is that I draw the images of men; my spiritual art is that I draw the images of the angels, and I hope that at last I shall be able to draw pictures of the perfections of God. My physical art will at last end, but my spiritual art is everlasting.   ABU2119

Circumstances that benefit the body do not benefit the soul, and the soul of man is his reality, not his body, i.e., there are some men who are perfected in material things and very backward in the spiritual. Likewise many, who are at the bottom of the social and material ladder, are very much advanced spiritually.  ABU1203

The other kind are those affairs which contribute toward the maintenance of livelihood, adding to the comfort, happiness and progress of the human family. Spiritual powers always come to the assistance of such affairs, they increase the moral insight and responsibility of man and add to his awareness and mindfulness.  ABU2801

The thoughts of this newspaper is material but the conceptions of that newspaper are spiritual. The policies of this newspaper are earthly but the policies of that newspaper are heavenly. The pages of this newspaper are made of perishable materials but the pages of that newspaper are made with the celestial texture.   ABU2626

The spiritual food is the principal food ... the effect of the spiritual food is eternal. The material food, that is, the food for the body, is simply water and bread, but the food for the intellect is knowledge and the food for the spirit is the significances of the heavenly words and the bounties of the Holy Spirit.  ABU3264

There are many authors and their written works are circulated in all parts of the world but this article of thine is the crown of all the works, because the works of others deal with the material world while this composition belongs to the world of the Kingdom. They are earthly melodies but this is a heavenly harmony.  AB04179

The child in the womb may be imperfect -it may lack eyes, or ears, or limbs; yet it does not realise its blindness, its deafness, or its other imperfections. Neither its perfections nor its imperfections can be appreciated there. But when it comes to the world of men, its perfections and imperfections both become apparent.  ABU0563

The will-power exists both in animal and man. The animals enjoy only a physical will-power which is limited in the sphere of its activity while man holds in his grasp two kinds of will-power; the physical will-power which is circumscribed by certain limitations, the spiritual will-power which transcends all human obstacles.  ABU0303

A man may have attained to a high degree of material progress, but without the light of truth his soul is stunted and starved. Another man may have no material gifts, may be at the bottom of the social ladder, but, having received the warmth of the Sun of Truth his soul is great and his spiritual understanding is enlightened.  ABU0625

Now that this Most Great Luminary hath adorned the horizon of the Kingdom, they that dwell in the realm of limitations have become despondent and dejected, deprived and non-existent. But they that dwell in the Kingdom receive that bounty today from the realm of the invisible, and obtain that bestowal from the Concourse on High.  AB08851

Now that this Most Great Luminary hath adorned the horizon of the Kingdom, they that belong to the world of dust have become despondent and extinguished, deprived and brought to naught. But they that belong to the Kingdom receive that bounty today from the realm of the unseen and attain that bestowal from the Concourse on High.  AB08851

Materially, man is the prisoner of nature; the least wind disturbs him, the cold hurts him, the heat incommodes him, a mosquito irritates him. We must care for man's two natures; for as the material man makes certain demands for food and raiment and if not looked after suffers, even so his spiritual reality suffers without care.  ABU1586

The material world is subject to change and transformation. The Cause of the Kingdom is eternal; therefore, it is the most important. But, alas, day by day the power of the Kingdom in human hearts is weakened, and material forces gain the ascendancy. The divine signs are becoming less and less, and human evidences grow stronger.   ABU0187

Though the body of the world is pleasant, charming and attractive, it is a body without soul and dark lowly dust. The soul of the world and motion of the universe is essentially fire, and this is an attractive force, but this fire is the fire of the burning flame of heart and soul, not the essence of the world of water and clay.   AB05841

As the material life is conditional upon the Sun (the material sun) so the spiritual growth is conditional upon the Light of the Sun of Truth. As the material things are made manifest through the splendor of the material sun, so the things in the spiritual world are made manifest and discovered through the Light of the Sun of Truth.   ABU0333

Physical conquests have no permanence; it is divine conquests that endure. For example, the conquests of Moses still remain, the conquests of Abraham still remain, the conquests of Christ still remain, the conquests of Muhammad still remain, they have no end. I hope that you will achieve these conquests which are eternal, without end.  ABU0301

In the early part of your life you strove in physical medicine and discovered the causes and illnesses of this contingent body... Now through the grace and generosity of the Intended One and through the abundant bounty of the Beloved Beauty, you have discovered the true divine medicine which is the life of spirits and health of hearts   AB01946

Man alone, by his spiritual power, has been able to free himself, to soar above the world of matter and to make it his servant. Without the help of God man is even as the beasts that perish, but God has bestowed such wonderful power upon him that he might ever look upward, and receive, among other gifts, healing from His divine Bounty.  ABU0899

Although music or an ordinary pleasing voice is of the physical realm, yet it has an effect upon the spirit. In the same manner, freshness and purity of the air, the atmosphere, the scenery and sweet fragrances impart joy, spirituality and comfort to the heart. Even though these are physical phenomena they have a great spiritual influence.  ABU2860

For this reason the following tradition is recorded from the lips of a god-fearing adept: 'From minor Jihad we have turned our attention to the major Jihad;- that is, we have quitted fighting with the outside enemy and are concentrating our forces on the defeat of the inside foe - the foe of the spirit. This is interpreted as the real Jihad.   ABU0324

Man has two powers; and his development, two aspects. One power is connected with the material world, and by it he is capable of material advancement. The other power is spiritual, and through its development his inner, potential nature is awakened. These powers are like two wings. Both must be developed, for flight is impossible with one wing.  ABU0262

Know thou that there are two kinds of happiness - spiritual and material. As to material happiness, it never exists; nay, it is but imagination, an image reflected in mirrors, a specter and shadow. As to spiritual happiness, this is the true basis of the life of man because life is created for happiness, not for sorrow; for pleasure, not for grief.  AB03576

The greatest of lamps, the electric light, nevertheless illumines only a limited distance nearby for several hours and miles. But the celestial lamp shines like the brilliant morning light unto the horizons, its light spreading from the earthly kingdom to the heavenly kingdom, and its radiance extending from the Supreme Concourse to the human realm.  AB09007

Thou hast stated regarding the mixture of refined fluid substances that when impediments are removed these refined substances will merge and mix together. Thou wishest to know if souls have a quality similar to this... mixing and commingling, entering and exiting, ascending and descending, and penetration are among the properties of bodies, not souls.   AB05120

During the last two years the world has gone through a terrific earthquake. Bloodthirstiness and ferocity has become widespread. Mercy and compassion have flown away from amongst the nations and governments. The world of humanity has become like unto a primeval forest wherein lurks beasts of prey, lions, leopards, hyenas, bears, wolves and venomous serpents.  ABU0615

Herein we learn that man is a representative of the physical, intellectual and spiritual world. Just as in his physical environment he is in need of material things; in his spiritual environment he requires celestial things... The physical world in comparison to the spiritual world is dark, for the physical world is ruled by the brute, blind forces of nature.  ABU0779

The sight of the physical and ordinary eye will some day pass away. Only for a short time does the eye exercise its function; then it becomes shut. But the power of insight is eternal; it is a heavenly gift, and through it man discovers the Kingdom. Through it he can see aright the beauty of God and the holy verities, and can discern the very mysteries of God.   ABU0307

There are two kinds of scriptures and books existent in the world. One consists of the tablets of hearts, which are inscribed by the sanctified Pen - "Nun. By the Pen and that which they write." The other consists of outward books and writings, which are traced by the known pen. These outward scriptures are a reflection of those divine tablets and tablets of hearts.  AB09789


Though you are three hundred leagues distant, you are in the sacred soil of Shiraz, the homeland of His Holiness the Self-Sufficient One, and in truth you are an intimate companion and confidant in the blessed spot, a close associate and friend. The nearness and remoteness of the physical world has no importance, for true affection and connection is of the heart and soul.   AB06972

When man is in the world of the womb, God showers upon him all blessings. He gives him all the organs, eyes, ears, etc. But man cannot put this favour into use there; it is not manifest there. When the child is born from the world of the womb into this world, then all those blessings and gifts which God showered upon him in the world of the womb become manifest and useful.  ABU1861

There were many Doctors amongst the Jews, but they were all earthly, but St. Paul became heavenly because he could fly upwards. In his own time no one duly recognized him; nay, rather, he spent his days amidst difficulties and contempt. Afterwards it became known that he was not an earthly bird, he was a celestial one; he was not a natural philosopher, but a divine philosopher.   AB06532

Yes, these stations are true, but they are the portion of the heart, not the share of water and clay. Though the spirit may rejoice in spiritual sustenance, yet the body requires physical nourishment. The outward ear needs an outer melody, while the inner ear yearns for divine harmonies. The eye of mystery beholds eternal beauty, while the physical eye witnesses horizonal majesty.  BH05638

Just now, this heaven, above there, when we are on the other side of the globe in the East, then heaven is below us. You are standing on the heaven of the Orient. Then, when we want to look at heaven we have to look down. Then Christ ought to come out of the earth. You see this earth is surrounded by air, this interminable space. The heaven of Christ was the heaven of reality, or truth.   ABU0981

The importance lies not in the house but in its owner, who is unchanging and immutable. It is the spirit that delivers [man] from all physical worlds. However, while the spirit is in the body, health must accompany it so that one may accomplish something. While the sun's rays are in this mirror, the mirror must be free from tarnish, pure and clear, but after the sun sets the mirror is useless.   ABU0662

At this table you will not find material comfort, but you will find spiritual comfort. The spiritual comfort must be of your heart and soul. For a lover in the house of his beloved is so intoxicated with love that he does not care. I invite you to this spiritual table. From the heaven and bounty of the Blessed Perfection I want you to partake of that table. The material table is found everywhere.  ABU1185

There are two kinds of happiness: Animal happiness and human happiness. Animal happiness is satisfied with the sight of green meadows, verdant woods, pure air and salubrious water. Such natural sights excites imagination, stirs the emotions and man becomes a dancing, laughing, care-free creature. But the unfoldment of human happiness depends upon the exercise of the hidden functions of intellect.   ABU2011

Man possesses two types of virtues: One is material, and the other ideal in character. For example, the body of man expresses certain material virtues, but the spirit of man manifests virtues that are ideal. The sense of sight in man is a physical virtue; but insight, the power of inner perception, is ideal in its nature. The sense of hearing is a physical endowment, whereas memory in man is ideal.  ABU0150

A material leader, if a king, is mighty by the sword, and if a president, is powerful by the consensus of opinion. The Heavenly Ruler is mighty through Divine Bounty, and the election of the Holy Spirit, and through the Power of the Love of God. The earthly sovereignty destroys many souls in the process of its organization, while the Spiritual Sovereignty bestows life in the process of its organization.   ABU1701

The worlds of God, even as the invisible and unknowable Essence, are hidden and concealed from physical eyes and earthly vision, and their number is beyond the power of mortal minds to reckon. When the veil is withdrawn, however, and the eyes of insight become open, and the nostrils are relieved of their congestion, those limitless worlds will reveal themselves and their holy fragrances will be perceived.  AB03491

The material kingdom is of time; affliction and calamity attend it. It is the womb of pain. But the spiritual kingdom is unpassing, it has no end, it is beyond danger and fear, it is exalted day by day, its sun is shining ever more, the voice of its grandeur arises higher and higher. All that belongs to this visible world is corruptible, mortal; all that belongs to the divine world is incorruptible, eternal.  ABU1320

"Tell them what you feel are spiritual sensations. The world of man has no communication with the vegetable or animal world. But there are sensations or spiritual emotions between the two. When man looks to the plain, meadow or mountain he does not speak with them, but there is a wave of spiritual communication between the two. The lower worlds are not able to communicate with man, but they have a sensibility."  ABU0720

Just as in the natural world there is the struggle for existence, and this is the means of progress and growth and development of things, in the world of the spirit it is the acquisition of human perfections, and this law is the cause of the progress of spirits and the attainment of spiritual bounties. The natural world in relation to that is a prison, preventing the comfort of thought and freedom of human conscience.  ABU0886

The wealthy take pride in the ornaments of the material world and attach their hearts and souls to the wealth of the earthly realm, while it is like a shadow that constantly wanes. But the poor are free from the contamination and debris of the material world...Therefore, they must attach themselves to the heavenly kingdom and fix their hearts on the celestial world, for this is an eternal blessing and everlasting wealth.  AB00334

They are like that donkey at the mill that toils around the millstone. It rotates around its pivot, unable to make any progress. From morning to evening that beast of burden does not progress by a single step though it is moving all the time, for its path is the track of the mill. Humankind too is in continuous motion, yet does not move away or upward from the centre of dust but simply circles around this contingent world instead.   AB05164

The real intention in this teaching is that it refers to spiritual children, and the real relationship between the prodigal son and the elder brother is spiritual and not physical. For example, the real brothers of Jesus Christ were His spiritual brothers, Canaan was one of the children of Noah, but only physically, not spiritually. All of you are the spiritual descendants of the Blessed Perfection because He is the Father of all.   ABU1271

However, if material affairs are supported by spiritual matters--that is, if they are under the rule of spirituality--then they are like a seed that takes root. From this, mighty results are produced in both the earthly and heavenly kingdoms. How many souls have appeared on this path who were of the highest rank in material affairs, what edifices they built, what labors they undertook, yet absolutely no result, no fruit, no trace remained--nothing at all.   ABU0440

But the conquests of the Baha'is are spiritual conquests, and these are a thousand times greater than outward conquests. For this conquest is through love, through knowledge, and pure grace, while that conquest is through arrows, through swords, through schemes and humiliation. This conquest bestows spirit and brings to life, while that conquest destroys foundations and casts souls into the pit of destruction. This conquest is eternal while that conquest is temporary   AB00996

"The truth I verily say unto thee, this divine grace cannot be exchanged for the sovereignty of the earth, the east or the west. For that (the worldly kingdom) is naught but dreams, torture to the spirit, trouble for the hearts; its mortality is certain and its destruction a well known fact--while this spiritual kingdom and divine grace will shine, and it is an ABHA (Glorious) jewel which will glisten on the diadems of great glory in the course of centuries and cycles."  AB01367

Material civilization advances through the physical association of mankind. The progress you observe in the outer world is founded mainly upon the fraternity of material interests. Were it not for this physical and mental association, civilization would not have progressed. Now -- praise be to God! -- the indissoluble spiritual association is evident; therefore, it is certain that divine civilization has been founded, and the world will progress and advance spiritually.   ABU0152

Know that in language, 'Kingdom' (Malakut) is an intensification of 'dominion' (Mulk), meaning sovereignty. In the terminology of the people of truth, it refers to the divine realm which encompasses the earthly realm and is sanctified from the conditions, characteristics, limitations and imperfections of the material world - pure, perfect, ancient, luminous, spiritual; neither within contingent existence nor outside it; neither confined to space nor perceivable by physical senses.  AB00765

The Glory of the world of humanity is not through the body. This is the honor of the animal world; but the Glory of man comes through the Spirit. Spirit quickens and regenerates humankind and not the body. Spirit draws man near unto God and not the body. Spirit is the discoverer of the realities of phenomena and not the body. Spirit establishes love and amity and not the body. Spirit will usher in the era of Peace and Salvation and not the body. Spirit attracts the hearts together and not the body.   ABU1476

Consider the mole beneath the ground. He constructs galleries and tunnels there, he builds with faultless art, yet he is a creature who lives in darkness, under the earth, not able to bear the sunlight, not able to work in the sweet air. Again, look at the spider. What artist could create anything better made than a spider's web? Even so those artists whose creations are perfect, and who themselves are ignorant of the life of the spirit, are like the mole and the spider, far below the level of the man of faith.  ABU2307

These professors labor for many years to acquire scholastic virtues. They go through colleges and universities, try to inform themselves of sciences and arts, master minutely the various theories of life, and when they leave college they say: "We deny God. We have become free from all superstitions. We do not have any spiritual susceptibilities. Where is God? What are ideal realities? We believe in the evidence of the senses and we do not believe in the ideal verities. Spiritual susceptibilities are superstitions."   ABU0097

If they could employ this pugnacity, this hammer and tongs, this fists and heels spirit, this feverish haste in the accumulation of war materials, this waste of great thoughts over the perfection of military science, - I say if they could expend this exertion and effort, this endeavor and high-mindedness, in bringing about Love among mankind, in strengthening the ties of interdependence between nations and governments and in establishing fellowship and affinity between the races;--how much more efficacious it would have been!   ABU0099

Order and harmony are of two kinds, the one which is in accord with the world of nature, and the other which conforms to the image of reality and truth. The former beautous arrangment may cause the arousal of worldly desires, whereas the latter stirreth the conscience of man. Through the first kind of synthesis the physical senses are excited, whereas by the second kind the divine spirit is stirred up and released. The one provideth for material comfort, the other ensureth the well-being of the soul and the tranquillity of the conscience.  AB09507

Order and harmony are of two kinds, the one which is in accord with the world of nature, and the other which conforms to the image of reality and truth. The former beauteous arrangement may cause the arousal of worldly desires, whereas the latter stirreth the conscience of man. Through the first kind of synthesis the physical senses are excited, whereas by the second kind the divine spirit is stirred up and released. The one provideth for material comfort, the other ensureth the well-being of the soul and the tranquillity of the conscience.  AB09507

When God created Adam he made for him a physical body, which is the material aspect of man, but he also conferred upon Adam his own image and likeness, for it is recorded in the Bible that man was made in the image and likeness of God. This signifies the divine attributes, not the outward form or figure. The divine attributes signifies the attributes and names of God, the virtues of God. Hence it becomes evident that in man there are two realities: one is the physical reality, or the body; the other is the spiritual reality, or the image and likeness of God.   ABU0751

For all the infinite stars are material bodies and the realm in which the spirit doth exist is the Spiritual World and the Heavenly Kingdom which is eternal and everlasting. Because these illuminating bodies which exist in yon immeasurable immensity are all composed of matter, and every composition is followed by decomposition, and this shows that (these stars) are deprived from the gift of perpetuity; but as the universe of the Kingdom is abstract and sanctified above the laws of composition and decomposition, therefore it is imperishable and indestructible.   AB05474

Nevertheless, both spiritual and physical health and well-being are desirable and commendable because they extend life. Thus, we should endeavor to acquire both a balanced spiritual life and physical health and progress. Both are desirable. But the foundation is the spiritual life. Once one possesseth this, though the body be afflicted with a disability, imperfection is not the result. But if the spiritual life is deficient, no matter how perfect one's physical life, it will yield no result. Nay, in the end it will be evident loss and the source of sorrow and despair during one's final days.  AB02983



Human perfections are not confined to spiritual conditions; rather, physical perfections are also necessary so that the human world may shine forth in both spiritual beauty and physical perfection in the assemblage of existence. Therefore, the beloved of God must also strive in every way to acquire physical perfections. Divine characteristics are like spirits, and physical perfections are like bodies. Spirits have manifestation and appearance through bodies, and bodies have spirit and triumph through spirits. When both appear in the contingent world with the utmost perfection, abundant grace is achieved and the light upon light shines forth.   AB00146

When you observe with precise vision and keen sight, you will see that victories are of two kinds: One is spiritual victories that occur in the realm of hearts and attack with the army of salvation. When the forces of inner truths and meanings advance and the army of self and passion and the devils of heedlessness and blindness are cast out and stoned, the cities of hearts are conquered and the fortresses of hearts are captured. The other is physical victories where regions and countries are obliterated and destroyed, human populations are eliminated and lost, prosperity is ruined, the living become dead, justice and fairness turn to oppression and enmity, comfort and ease vanish, and the world of creation becomes shaken and disappointed.  AB00533

This sin in Adam, moreover, is relative to His station: Although this worldly attachment produced substantial results, yet in relation to attachment to the spiritual realm it is nonetheless regarded as a sin, and the truth of the saying "The good deeds of the righteous are the sins of the near ones" is established. Again, it is like the power of the body, which is imperfect in relation to the power of the spirit--indeed, it is sheer weakness in comparison. Likewise, material life, compared to eternal existence and the life of the Kingdom, is regarded as death. Thus Christ referred to this material life as death and said, "Let the dead bury their dead." Although those souls enjoyed material life, yet in His eyes that life was even as death.   AB00100

