And I am the Fire in the upright Alif between the two seas.  BB00002

after the year sixty-eight corresponding to the numerical value of "Hin" (a time)   AB11685

In the year Nine ye shall attain unto all good, and in the year Nine ye shall attain unto the presence of God. And addressing His Holiness the Great One (upon Him be all the most glorious glory and the most exalted exaltation), He says - His exalted Word: This is what We promised thee aforetime when We answered thee.  BH00008

The sciences of numbers neither nourish nor satisfy.   BH09291

The science of numbers is one of the common sciences, but the aim of 'Abdu'l-Baha is, that the Heavenly Knowledge and Divine Wisdom encircle the world of existence.  AB10774

be patient until there passeth from the Bayan nine   BH11432

"In the year nine ye shall attain unto all good," if ye be of them that turn unto Him   BH02742

There is no God but Him, and verily the Being of the Seven Letters is His servant and His Word. God has chosen for Him names of His Primal Nature equaling the essential numbers of all things, and through them have the heavens and the earth and all that lies between them been filled. Verily, there is no God but Him, the Supreme, the Self-Subsisting.   BB00539

This concerns the science of the letter "Ha" in the reckoning of numbers. Thus was the letter "Waw" established in numerical calculation, and the ordinance of days and their relation to the seven planets - such is God's decree in the science of the Point, as the heart hath truly witnessed, and the heart did not falsify what it saw. This is a drop of what I received from the Greater Ja'far. Take with the power of God what I impart unto thee and be of the thankful ones.   BB00175

Understanding cannot comprehend Him, for the letter 'waw' is different from 'ha', and likewise is the ruling for the remaining letters.   BB00075

The letters (alphabet) and the numbers (arithmetic) have a mystic correspondence with transcendent reality. The letters and numbers are the elements of the spiritual and material worlds. As words these elements are the source of all things intellectual, as letters they represent the source of matter.   ABU0227

Consider the point - though limited, how many worlds of words, letters and phrases lie hidden within it! Four alifs appear from its four directions, and each alif containeth a world. Were all the peoples of the world to attempt to interpret the point of the extended alif, which is expressed as 'ba', they would fail to do so.  BH02987

in the year after sixty-eight, which corresponds to the numerical value of "time," and after "time" is sixty-nine  AB04613

We have adorned the Night of Power with the letter "H"...and when combined with "V" the number six appears, if ye be of them that understand  BH09470

The teaching of the "abjad" is the teaching of the mystic relationship between words, the numerical value of whose letters, when added up, agree.   ABU0227

"Verily I am the letter Mim between Tha and Ra, remembered. Verily I am the letter Ra, I was visible in the letter Jim of the word Thamar (fruit)."  BB00204

Regarding numbers, these ignorant people do not know that any number can be made to correspond to the Most Beautiful Names [of God] and other names.  ABU3149

Besides these historied testimonies the word "Music" is Persian. It comes from "Musik" and the word "Musik" comes from the word "Musighar," a sweet singing bird.  ABU0556

Six of them belong to the letter Waw in connection to the limitations of things, and one of them belongeth to their manifestations in the station of the Sign of God.   BB00590

The entire prayer is structured around the letters of the Arabic alphabet (Alif, Ba, Ta, etc.) with specific spiritual essences and attributes associated with each letter   BB00180

Verily the letter Qaf and Fa with the addition of Alif thereto hath been concealed. If thou art able, bring it forth through a power from Us and a sovereignty from Our presence   BH05300

Know that God created in you the luminous and dark letters with fourteen points of articulation. The first is the straight path we hold to, and the second is all other letters.   BB00301


Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Destroy every being of alif who believeth not in Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest... [Following this pattern through all the letters of the alphabet]  BB00251

The learned ones maintain that "Face" refers to the proofs of the Prophet, since the numerical value of "face" is 14, referring to the fourteen holy Innocents (peace be upon them).   AB02154

We have indeed known what thou hast discovered regarding the laws of the letters of the Qur'an, and We have expounded therein that which none before this could encompass in knowledge.   BB00473

Therein it was clearly stated that the numerical value of Kull u Shay (all things = 36 indicated the time limit when the Cause of Baha'u'llah would, God forbid, be disbanded or dispersed.  ABU2817

Write the letter Ba in the third circle of my life, for I verily testify to Thy unity after my certitude in Thy glorification and my acknowledgment of Thy praise, that there is no God but Thee.  BB00011

The Primal Point, after traversing the realms of the Kingdom, appeared adorned with the seal of finality, and from its composition diverse forms became manifest, culminating in the Most Great Form.   BH10654



And regarding what was written about the science of letters and the Hidden, what was revealed was a treatise on the science of the Temple sent down from the heaven of the Lord of Causes specifically for you.   BH00843

These letters are symbols predicting future events. If you add these letters, each representing a number, without repeating any one of them, the sum total will be the year of the appearance of his holiness the Bab.   ABU2121

O God! I beseech Thee by Thy Divinity which is exalted above all things, to punish every being of Alif associated with the Tree of Negation... [continues with systematic prayers invoking the letters Alif, Ba, Jim, etc.]   BB00161


Let the temples be written from these or in the manner of the connected temple, for it has the strongest effect therein. And verily from the first descent of the water of His being until the time He spoke the number of Ta and Kaf  BB00456

What you have expressed regarding the correspondence of numbers, letters and words was noted, but it would have been better if the time you spent on these matters had been spent on teaching the Cause of God with wisdom and utterance.  BH04823

Through it beginneth what beginneth, and unto it returneth what returneth. Glorified and exalted is He! He hath created beneath its shadow the letter Fa, for when the Kaf revolves around itself in four stages, the letter Fa appeareth.  BB00247

Know thou through the all-embracing Form which is the very truth of certitude in the knowledge of certitude, and reckon from alif to nun in the abjad - there wilt thou see the number 400, and verily He is the Knower of all things hidden.  BB00289

All infinite letters branch forth from the Ocean of the Primal Point, and unto it do they return and find their end. And whoso knoweth the Point knoweth that whereof the outer letters are composed and that which brancheth forth from them.  BH08627

God loves that knowledge, which is the science of numerical values of letters, just as in the letter Ba you write the figure two. Say: This is an inaccessible and exalted knowledge - whoever is given it has been given a great bounty.  BB00005

The science of jafr had currency in the Qur'anic Dispensation, but its derived principles were unknown, therefore correct results were not obtained. But in this Dispensation all are commanded not to pursue matters that do not yield great results.  AB07261

There is a kind of mathematics where they take the name of a person according to 'Abjad' (each letter of the alphabet has a numerical value) and the sum total of the values of the letters in the name are used. This mathematics is a concise science.  ABU0177

and from its letter Mim created the Kingdom of Utterance, and from its Ha' the realm of praise and glorification, and from its other Mim the center of the circle of existence, and from its Dal created the servants and manifested the decree of return   BH02252


The calculation of the word "Bab" is 5 and Baha is 9. If you multiply 9 by 5 you have 45. Now 45 is the Arabic numerical value of the word Adam. Also, 1 plus 2 equals 3; 3 plus 3 equals 6; 6 plus 4 equals 10; 10 plus 5 equals 15; 15 is the number of Eve.   AB03591

Therefore seek refuge for [him] from the deeds of the people of hypocrisy, then of discord, then what was immersed by that which established the Alif between the two Ba's, then by [it] all letters spoke, then by it filled the heavens and earth from Nun...   BB00155

For example, the calculation of the number of the word "Bab" is number 5, and Baha is 9. Now, if you multiply 9 by 5 you have 45. Now 45 is the Arabic numerical value of the word Adam: Aliph equals 1, Dal equals 4, Mim equals 40, and the sum of all is 45.   ABU0872

In any case, I hope to set forth, purely for the sake of God, that which has been permitted in this noble science, for none shall grasp any of His knowledge save as He willeth, and verily He is the Sovereign Who hath encompassed all things with His knowledge.  BH11861

Establish, O my God, all the Letters in the hearts of men, their spirits, their souls and their bodies. Transform, O my God, all the Letters into those Letters which Thou lovest to mention and permittest to appear before Thee among those who bow down in worship.  BB00004

As for what you mentioned about jafr - the comprehensive jafr in its primal reality is the Temple of the Manifestation. This station is a summary - God willing, after entering the depths of certitude you will become aware of a matter that is more precious in God's sight than all else.   BH03915

Who hath chosen from among the days eleven - the number of Huva - which is the Hidden Mystery known only to him who is acquainted with the secrets of destiny. In six of these He created the heavens and the earth, and there remained the number of Ha, which was revealed on the Night of Power.   BH01228

"For example, some have asked about numerology... However, today these sciences are not and have not been beloved, for these sciences have been and will be the cause of delay and hindrance. Many who engaged in the elixir and numerology lost their minds from excessive delusion and reflection"   BH01733

Of the eight letters of the Greatest Name, four are in the air and God will soon reveal them to His Proof after his appearance. The four that have descended are the words of Unity, Prophethood, Guardianship and Following. Today its fourth is the name of its third, and the name of its third comes before its second   BB00183

All scientific discoveries and attainments are the outcomes of knowledge and education. The telegraph, phonograph, telephone were latent and potential in the world of nature but would never have come forth into the realm of visibility unless man through education had penetrated and discovered the laws which control them.   ABU0104

In the school of the family of God this is the circle of manifestation, which is identical to four thousand, which is the Jafr of Ali, peace be upon him, as it is established in the science of Jafr that the book of Ali, peace be upon him, had four thousand at its beginning and four thousand at its end, identical to the circle.   BB00047

For a name like Muhammad - peace be upon him and his family - is not possible in origination, because the letter Mim is the first letter of Will (Mashiyyat). When that letter appeared in his name, it indicated that in the pillar of the element of fire, it encompasses all stations from the rank of receptivities and the accepted.  BB00014

All praise be to God Who hath manifested Himself through the signs by their own essence, and through the gates by the Alif standing in their manifestations, and through the heavens and earth by the name of the Ba [...] and through water by the name of Ya, their Flow-giver, and through air by the name of Ha, their Preserver [...]   BB00445

The entire prayer is structured around the letters of the Arabic alphabet (Alif, Ba, Jim, etc.), invoking divine assistance for souls associated with each letter. "I beseech Thee by Thy Divinity which transcendeth all things, that Thou assist every soul with Alif who believeth in Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection"   BB00236

When they spoke the letters of There is no God but God and said that Joseph was dearer to their father than they were - this was by virtue of what had preceded in God's knowledge as a letter concealed in mystery, veiled by mystery, hidden in the line, absent in the secret of secrets, transcendent above what was in their hands and the hands of all the worlds.  BB00002

And that whose name equals the name of the Honored One, when diminished by the number of alif and ba, when equated with sulfur, prevents fire from burning it. This confirmeth that should We explain the keys of this knowledge concerning gold and silver, they could not be counted. God hath created through numbers, and the knowledge of everything is in everything.  BB00005

The one addressed is the Letter Kaf, and He Who addressed him is God, the Mighty, the Glorious. He revealed Himself unto him in the Point, and thus attributed to him the station of Oneness. All this is detailed in the degrees of Reality in ten essential ranks, eighteen unchanging ones, and nineteen moving ones in the sphere of cycles and the pole of the circles of regions.  BB00247

The alif is the letter of beginning and the ha is the letter of ending, and therefore the place of the manifestation of the light of beginning was the letter of ending. Therein are divine stations, heavenly manifestations, sovereign indications, and celestial signs, whereby the one who gazeth upon the light of the heart in the flowing of ink perceiveth the decree of creation.  BB00301

This is the station concerning which Ahmad-i-Ahsa'i, upon him be the Glory of God, gave tidings, saying: "The Vav consisteth of three letters: six and alif and six; and the Six Days have passed, and the Alif is the Completion, and there is no word; how then the Last Six Days? Otherwise the Return would not be realized, for it is the mystery of inversion for the symbol of the Chief."   BH01412

Know thou that for the letter Vav, being the first letter of that verse, there is a direction pure from the six directions which pertain to its simplicity and to the letter of its essence, whereof the people thereof make mention through holy names, glorious manifestations, true revelations, and paradisiacal signs - all of which are recorded beneath its shade and confined within its realm.  BB00006

In the disconnected letters, if ye count their letters without counting their repetitions, ye shall find in your hand the name of "the Most Great" in the Book of God that ye may magnify your Lord. And if ye count their letters without counting their repetitions, the Mother Book proclaimeth "the path of 'Ali is truth, hold fast unto it; verily We have ever been the Guardian of all things."   BB00373

Verily, what is wondrous is that the name of the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden, hath been fulfilled from the night of thy recognition of thy Lord. The number of negation in "There is no God" hath extended fifty thousand years, and the days of affirmation have dawned, yet until now what behooveth the negation of negation and the affirmation of affirmation hath not been mentioned.   BB00306

God has bestowed upon the Point of the Bayan a hidden and treasured knowledge which God had not sent down before that Manifestation, and it is more precious than all knowledge in the sight of God, the Glorified. He has made it a proof from Him just as He made the verses a proof from Him, for through it the creation of all things can be known in a single soul through evidence and proof in the science of letters.  BB00005

Therefore, O my God, teach everyone who entereth the Bayan to recite the prayer of negation and affirmation in Thy path, for it is the swiftest of prayers Thou hast sent down and the greatest of words Thou hast created. Thou hast ordained for Thyself to answer him who calleth upon its number seeking Thy good pleasure - in negation by granting him dominion, and in affirmation for Thy loved one by granting him victory.   BB00681

Praise be to God Who created the letters according to the repetition of the name of the All-Bountiful from His own Self, and the letter la that the tongues of all created things might proclaim His praise in the letter la without the judgment which the Christians have taken therefrom in the form of the cross, and the Divine Nature resolved the alif of unity in the human nature of the letter of multiplicity which is the lam.  BB00301

And when one of the Letters of the First asked me about his death with these words: When shall be the death of AQSY?, the answer came in the very letters of the question through the science of numerology: He shall die on the day that is measured - take from the number of the first of the day to the last number of the letter T, then match from the time of the question to the time he reached his seat, and preserve this knowledge.  BB00506

O God! I beseech Thee by Thine Ultimacy, which is exalted above all things, to abase every alif that is attributed to the Tree of Negation, by Thy might before Thyself and before all things. O God! I beseech Thee by Thy Loftiness, which is exalted above all things, to abase every ba that is attributed to the Tree of Negation and whatsoever is related to it, by Thy might before Thyself and before all things. [And continuing through all the letters]   BB00141

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy primacy which transcendeth all things, that Thou mayest cause to vanish every essence of alif that is attributed to the tree of negation, by Thy power over whatsoever Thou willest. O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy sublimity which is manifest above all things, that Thou mayest restore every essence of ba that is attributed to the tree of negation, by Thy power over whatsoever Thou willest. [And continuing through all the letters]   BB00189

Should one reflect upon the treasures deposited within the letters and become aware as befitteth their station, in that moment would he testify to the power of God, exalted be His glory, through the reality of existence, the reality of the spirit, the reality of the soul, and the reality of the heart. No more than twenty-eight letters exist in their outward form, yet from the treasury of each hath He made manifest that which those possessed of certain knowledge are powerless to reckon.  BH11490


And praise be to God Who brought the existences into being through the embellishment of the mystic Alif, self-subsisting, which was originated through the causation of the Point before it and was brought into being through the essence of the aforementioned Will, in its own rank, through it, by it, unto it. This following the mention of 'Ayn, Lam and Ya - Muhammad - that whoso entereth through him may enter the depths of oneness and whoso departeth from him may depart from the presence of oneness.  BB00240

Know then that if you were to extract the letters contained within the mysteries of this Alif, as We have previously imparted to you, from its four stations, and write their pronunciations, and thereafter divide them into four divisions, and apply to each division what it requires of ascent, descent, elevation and equivalence, there would be revealed to you mysteries at which minds would be bewildered, and you would discover what you have heard of the comprehensive Jafr, and arrive at the source of all knowledge.  BH00020


Thus do the doers of good conduct themselves. When the thread of light moveth from the crimson radiance, there shall the denizens of Sinai among the people of the divine cloud fall thunderstruck, and the unitarians shall witness in the horizon of heaven the rising of the white thread from the black horizon. Is not the morning from the light of glory therein? Say: Yea, by my Lord! Verily there shall come unto you one learned in the knowledge of letters and its mysteries. Not an atom escapeth His knowledge, and We have detailed all things in a preserving Book.   BB00175

Verily I am God, there is no God but I. I have created the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them through My command Be! and it is. And I created the letters and made them the keys to all knowledge from Our presence, for We have power over all things. O all things! Reflect ye, from the mention of the Most High to the lowest atom, that ye all shall witness these things in the twenty-eight letters, even as ye have witnessed all letters within them. Thus shall ye witness all the spirits of the letters within their spirits, for We are cognizant of all things.  BB00005

Moreover, the numerical equivalent of the letter ha [itself] is five. This ha is the ha of the reality (huwiyyat) and essence of the Most Merciful, which is manifest and clear in the number five, which is the numerical equivalent of the word Bab. Therefore, in the Greatest Name as it appears on the ringstone symbol, the ba has been joined with the ha. Likewise, the Greatest Name is manifest in that symbol, its numerical equivalent being nine, for nine is the numerical equivalent of Baha. Multiply it by the word Bab, which equals five, that is nine times five, which makes 45.  AB00328

"As for the question regarding the science of letters ('ilm al-huruf): take at the head of every ten the first letter and calculate it by the first element of Fire (nar) around the name of God 'the Constrictor' (al-qabi?); and in the second element of Air (hawa') around the name of God 'the Living' (al-Hayy); and in the third element of Water (ma') around the name of God 'the Revivifier' (al-muHayyi); and in the fourth element of Earth (turab) around the name of God the 'Taker of Life' (al-mumit). Then multiply the ten letters from the first to the fourth and from the third to the second."   BB00421

Know that the Letter Joseph corresponds in number to the Qayyumu'l-Asma and refers to the Qa'im of the House of Muhammad, peace be upon Him. Inasmuch as I observed that every morning they would recite "I believe in the Mystery of the Family of Muhammad," etc., I desired that the veil be lifted, that deeds might conform to verbal profession. From the time of the revelation of the Qur'an until the number nineteen was to be manifested - which number must needs appear - were the outward members of Muhammad's Family, each number revolving around one letter of "In the Name of God, the Compassionate,"   BB00170

O Lord my God! I beseech Thee by the Alif of the Father, and the Ba of the Revelation, and the Ta of the Oft-Returning, and the Tha of Steadfastness, and the Jim of Generosity, and the Ha of Wisdom, and the Kha of the All-Informed, and the Dal of Perpetuity, and the Dhal of Creation, and the Ra of Lordship, and the Za of the Sower, and the Sin of Splendor, and the Shin of Gratitude, and the Sad of Patience, and the Dad of Conscience, and the Ta of Sinai, and the Za of Manifestation, and the 'Ayn of Knowledge, and the Ghayn of Victory, and the Fa of Success, and the Qaf of Nearness, and the Kaf of Glory, and the Lam of the Standard, and the Mim of Honor, and the Nun of Light, and the Vav of Providence, and the Ha of Identity, and the Lam of Grace, and the Alif of Command, and the Ya of Certitude   BB00504

In the first line He inscribed the letters of the abjad, and from its twenty-eight letters, which are the source and return of all things, He derived the name Vahid. In the second line He took the dots marking the ranks of ones, tens, hundreds and thousands, wherefrom the name Mahbub was derived. In the third line He recorded similar alifs, such as one (1), ten (10), eleven (11), one hundred (100), one hundred and one (101), one hundred and ten (110), one hundred and eleven (111), and so forth.  BH00132

He calculated all similar letters in like manner, not exceeding the number of Al-Mustaghath, which He established as the measure of numbers. From these similar alifs He derived the name Baydavi. Similarly He recorded in each line the equivalents of each abjad letter and derived therefrom a name, until He reached the similar ta's, which represent the ultimate degree of geometry and forms in the material world, from which He derived the name Haqq.  BH00132


The meaning of the word in the tradition is not the pronounced letter. Rather, the meaning is that whatever human virtues appeared in the early centuries and were manifested in the realm of existence - of sciences, arts, inventions, discoveries, institutions, mysteries of creation and realities of beings - all of these are equivalent to two letters. However, what will appear after the manifestation of the Qa'im regarding the mysteries of the world of being, realities of things, arts and wonders, human knowledge, hidden secrets and guarded mysteries, is equivalent to twenty-five letters. AB03186

What we have today are the meanings of two of the letters of the Greatest Name. They are: B and H.  AB11329

The numerical value of the name of that Temple who reciteth unto you the verses from God is the number of Ra and Ba.  BB00004

"We have sent forth in the land of contingent beings a luminous Letter Tha to illumine all who dwell in the kingdom with its light"  BB00204

Through the first Vav were created the heavens which were raised up throughout the ages, and through the second was manifested He before Whom the doubles bowed down in worship.   BH09241

And when five are added unto it, then it becometh light... And God shall add unto it that five, the number of the Gate, and behold, it shall be light upon light upon light unto light.  BB00004

This is that hidden knowledge which shall never change, since its beginning is with nine, the symbol that betokeneth the concealed and manifest, the inviolable and unapproachably exalted Name.  BH00001

The difference between the letter Alif in fire (1) and the letter Waw in light (6) is the numerical value of the Gate (5). Thus does God transform fire into light for those who were prostrating before God their Lord.   BB00350

When will the countenance of the letter Ha without garment unveil itself and the face of the letter Ba without veil reveal its mystery? So that the mighty throne may quiver and the ancient seat be filled with delight.   BH11060

I acknowledge Thy sovereignty that hath encompassed Thy dominion, and the letter B whereby Thou didst bring forth existence from non-existence, and the letter H whereby the limbs of the nations who broke Thy Covenant and Testament trembled   BH02171

Every letter indicates a station, for example: Alif, Lam, Mim. Alif is a sign indicating the station of Divinity. Lam is a sign indicating the station of Successorship. Mim is a sign indicating the station of Prophethood. Again: Lam is Ali. Mim is Muhammad.   ABU2121

Do not forget the tradition "All that is in the Torah, Gospel and Psalms is in the Qur'an, and all that is in the Qur'an is in the Opening Chapter, and all that is in the Opening Chapter is in the Bismillah, and all that is in the Bismillah is in the letter B."   AB05221

Therefore hold fast to the pentagonal form, the human temple whose outward form is Ha' and whose inner reality is Vav-Qaf. This is the Most Great Name and the Most Noble Design whereby all turn unto God their Lord, and whereby all begin from God their Lord, and whereby all worship God their Lord.   BB00305

Open thou the gate of the Book upon the twenty-nine letters, and cause to flow from these upon all the decree of nearness. Begin with what God has inspired you through the tongue of the Bab and commence with mention of the verb, for it is the pivot of the decree. These are its numbers through repetition in the Ancient Verb.  BB00239

The letter Ta of 'talab' (seeking) is in its name, which is evidence that it will attain its goal. Its Alif is the Alif of steadfastness, which stands firm in service, and this indicates your standing firm in service. Its Vav proclaims and says: 'The divine promise is manifest, the Promised One is visible through the name of the All-Loving.'  BH02987

From its letter 'Ba', all beings have appeared, and from its point the world of distinction has come into being. Were this 'Ba' to be expounded, the mysteries of the first and the last would become manifest through it. It is the mirror of all letters and words, wherein the mysteries of eternity are concealed and upon which the affairs of nations depend.  BH00944

God, there is no God but He, hath created the letter Alif for His servant with commanding power. God, there is no God but He, hath ordained the letter Lam for His wisdom according to the decree of the Book. God, there is no God but He, hath made the letter Ra for the expansion of His Cause as He willeth in the Mother Book, decreed in truth around the Fire.  BB00002

Then He created the Letter Sin beneath the Ba and made it the earth of the Throne facing the heaven of the Point, which is itself the heaven of the Throne. Within it resides the reality of transcendence wherein is concealed the Primal Will by which all are created. These are two letters from the letters of the Bismillah which God hath sent down at the beginning of His Book.  BB00247

Through thy tribulation the Point left its position and took for itself a station beneath the letter B" - know that the Point's position is at the heading of the Book of Creation, and that the Point is differentiated by the Alif, and the Alif is repeated in numbers, thus manifesting exalted letters and perfect words. And since martyrdom in the path of God represents obliteration, extinction and the mystery of sacrifice, the Point was compelled to enter beneath the B, falling unconscious in grief and sorrow for the Prince of Martyrs.   AB00216

And whatsoever God hath created of anything in the Book and what is therein - He intendeth by the first letter of the first verse and what is therein in the mighty Basmalah and what is therein in the first letter - verily there is no God but I, the Lord of the worlds. Verily all that the Quran containeth is encompassed in the Surih of Praise, and all that it containeth is encompassed in the Basmalah, and all that the Basmalah containeth is encompassed in the letter Ba, and all that is in the Ba is encompassed in the Point, and I am that Point beneath the Ba.  BB00268

And now I mention one aspect among its aspects that the people of understanding might know from every letter its decree. Verily God hath created for the letter Alif the decree of Paradise and its people, then for Ha the decree of Will, then for 'Ayn the decree of Divine Determination and its hosts, then for Ta the decree of Destiny and its like, then for Kaf the decree of Permission and its sister, then for Lam the decree of the Book and its similitude, then for Qaf the decree of the Appointed Time and its form. These are the seven and what hath been sent down regarding their manifestations - a noble Book on a perspicuous tablet, a path of truth we hold fast to.   BB00175

Among the gifts bestowed by the Eternal One upon the Point of the Bayan is the knowledge of all things in a single soul, wherein they behold with the eye of certainty the genesis of all things in the world of letters. This is a perfect proof unto all, like unto verses, and hath been among the treasured mysteries of divine knowledge that until now had not been revealed, being more precious than any other knowledge. Upon this knowledge have all books been revealed and shall be revealed. From this knowledge came the command your God is One God, previously revealed. In brief, nothing existeth outside the twenty-eight letters, and likewise the genesis of all things proceedeth not beyond the meanings of these letters.  BB00005

"Thou hast taken much trouble in the correspondence of numbers. The digit nine is the perfect number and other higher numbers are the mere repetition of one to nine. For example the number ten is the repetition of number one; twenty is the repetition of two; one hundred is the repetition of ten; one thousand is the repetition of one hundred, ad infinitum. Consequently the most perfect and the greatest digit is nine."   AB01774

Number nine (9) is the last number and it is the greatest number. Number ten (10) is simply the continuation of the number ( because number 10 is 1 and 100 is 1. Place the units up to 10 and we simply return to the number 1, but they will be ended at 9. One cannot find any number greater than 9 written in one digit, and of all numbers it is the highest. Also, in the tens 90 is the highest, and in the hundreds 900 is the highest. Then see if you can find any number greater than 9 to be written in a digit. All other numbers are simply a repetition. As all digits end in 9, that which comes after 9 is simply a repetition of other digits. So number 9 is the highest, and from it all other numbers are made.   ABU0872

9 is the last number and it is the greater number. 10 is simply the continuation of the number 1 because 10 is 1 and 100 is 1. Place the units up to 10 and we simply return to the number 1. The units end at 9. Number 9 is the highest, and from it all other numbers are made.   AB03591

When thou didst inquire about divination (jafr), in truth this is not and hath never been the day for questions, even as the Primal Point, Who gave the people glad tidings of the Lord of the Beginning and the End, forbade all from asking questions in this Most Great Revelation. Some time ago this Most Great Verse was revealed from the Supreme Pen: "This is not the Day of questions. It behooveth every soul, when he heareth the Call from the Kingdom of Creation, to arise and say: 'Here am I, here am I, O God of Names! Here am I, here am I, O Creator of Heaven!'" For these fleeting days were not and are not worthy of such things.... Today the comprehensive book of divination is that Most Exalted Word which hath flowed and will continue to flow from the Supreme Pen. From it can be derived all that lieth concealed within the tabernacle of God's knowledge. Should anyone reflect upon the verses and that which hath been sent down from the heaven of God's Will, he would testify to that which My Pen hath testified at this moment. The divine worlds have been and shall forever be without end. The deeds of the Prophets and Messengers bear witness to this clear pronouncement. BH00878
