
Human will brings conditions to a climax in the affairs of nations. The only solution and remedy is the administration of God's Laws.  ABU1142

"This is the path to universal peace here as elsewhere-unity. We must prevent strife by all means. For 6,000 years man has been at war. It is time to try peace a little while."   ABU0612

the eventual application of the principle of federalism, underlying the government of your own country, to the relationships now existing between the peoples and nations of the world  ABU3361

Today the greatest need of the world of humanity is discontinuance of the existing misunderstandings among nations. This can be accomplished through the unity of language. Unless the unity of languages is realized, the Most Great Peace and the oneness of the human world cannot be effectively organized and established because the function of language is to portray the mysteries and secrets of human hearts. The heart is like a box, and language is the key. Only by using the key can we open the box and observe the gems it contains. Therefore, the question of an auxiliary international tongue has the utmost importance. Through this means international education and training become possible; the evidence and history of the past can be acquired. The spread of the known facts of the human world depends upon language. The explanation of divine teachings can only be through this medium. As long as diversity of tongues and lack of comprehension of other languages continue, these glorious aims cannot be realized. Therefore, the very first service to the world of man is to establish this auxiliary international means of communication. It will become the cause of the tranquillity of the human commonwealth. Through it sciences and arts will be spread among the nations, and it will prove to be the means of the progress and development of all races.  ABU1584

Notwithstanding this, the Bahais must associate and become members of these peace societies, so that they may awaken them to the realization that this great cause of universal peace cannot be established and maintained except through the power of God, which is supernatural.  AB03885

When the material civilization joins hand to divine civilization, then the world has reached the goal of a new order of things. Then there will be no poverty, no squalor, no crime, no shame. Then there will no night and no winter. Eternal day and perennial spring will gladden all hearts.  ABU2275

"In the meantime, all people of good will must ever strive to make international peace the great issue. They must work unceasingly to turn public opinion in favor of this line of action. In the absence of a universal agreement, armament must continue to be piled up against armament and the nations cannot hope for release."  ABU0315

"A house is never furnished before the structure is erected. So with the Cause of Baha'o'llah. It must be first built up; afterwards it will be furnished with justice and then it will be called the House of Justice. When this time comes and the universal House of Justice is once established, its commands will be obeyed by all."  ABU1572

Also, if these ideas regarding peace spread among the public, the financiers will refuse to give loans for wars and the manufacture of armaments, the railway companies will abstain from transporting instruments of destruction and the armed forces will not engage in carnage and the spilling of blood. Also the boundaries should be established.  ABU1438

However, the leaders of the Suffrage Movement in England must not retard the realization of their aspirations through incendiary and militant methods. Such rash and unseemly deeds are not worthy of the noble station of womanhood. They must hold fast to pacific methods, like their American sisters across the Atlantic, who have secured the right of universal suffrage in nine states, with others on the list.   ABU1463

The warring Powers having exhausted their resources will then enter into closer bond of intimacy and having destroyed the tree of militarism root and branch will be willing to listen to the voice of the pacifists of all countries; the cause of eternal peace will be strengthened; its advocates increased and the enlightened public opinion of mankind will demand the establishment of the International Court of Arbitration.  ABU0265

Wait! till the end of the war. The New Ideals of Peace which I have nurtured in my mind will be promoted. God willing we shall take another journey and achieve greater victories. After this war new plans, new thoughts and new sound theories are essential. Old thoughts will be good for the scrapbasket. A new table must be spread, new dishes must be cooked and new appetite must be cultivated. The seeds of new flowers must be sown, new saplings must be planted, new roads must be constructed, a new code of ethics must be discovered, new conventions for the amicable settlement of international disputes must be evolved, new lamps must be lighted, new truths must be laid here, new capability and ability must be trained, new modes of expression must be found, new worlds must be conquered, new relations must be established and new standards of life must be upraised.  ABU2265

As for the advancement and progress of nations in rivalry with one another, this does not require war and strife. There exist thousands of praiseworthy means and acceptable methods for progress and advancement, none of which require bloodshed, destruction, harm and loss - such as the development of cities, the spread of education, the promotion of sciences and arts, the expansion of commerce and agriculture, the attainment of perfect security, justice, ease and comfort, and the like.  ABU0242

Once the Parliament of Man is established and its constituent parts organized, the governments of the world having entered onto a covenant of eternal friendship will have no need of keeping large standing armies and navies. A few battalions to preserve internal order, and an International Police to keep the highways of the seas clear, are all that will be necessary. Then huge sums will be diverted to other more useful channels, pauperism will disappear, knowledge will increase, the victories of Peace will be sung by poets and bards, knowledge will improve the conditions of felicity and bliss.   ABU0600
