
In the world of dream consciousness is awake and works uninterruptedly.   ABU2789

Likewise, a question was asked concerning sleep. It is a special world among the divine worlds and is indicative of infinite matters. Among other things, it is evidence of a realm wherein no beginning or end, no first or last, can be witnessed. Thus, something is observed in sleep, and after a number of years that very same thing is witnessed. If it be said that this is the world of similitudes between the two worlds - which some consider to be a semi-spiritual realm between the worlds of spirit and matter - this would be correct. In any case, if thou dost ponder it, thou wilt grasp endless mysteries. It likewise beareth witness to the resurrection and revival after death, even as Luqman said to his son: "If thou art able not to sleep, thou art able not to die. And if thou art able not to awaken after sleep, thou art able not to be raised after death." Even as death is a reality, so is sleep a reality, and even as there is awakening after sleep, so is there resurrection after death. Sleep sometimes varies according to the differences in souls, thoughts, food and drink. In the dreams of holy souls there hath been and is no variation, for they are pure wakefulness.  O questioner! Man is the greatest index and the mightiest talisman. He is an index in which are found the representations of all that hath been created in earth and heaven. When the spirit is freed from incidental limitations and earthly conditions, it traverseth all stations, and the more it is detached, the swifter, more constant and more truthful is its journey. If it be said that the human temple is, in one station, the kingdom of God, this is the truth in which there is no doubt, for the representation of all things is found and witnessed therein. Though some have called it the lesser world, yet We bear witness that it is the greater world. Its changes and variations have been and shall be due to other causes, like the change in the taste of a sick person who perceiveth bitterness in that which is sweet. The change hath not occurred in the sweetness, rather the taste hath altered.   BH00135

both in wakefulness and in dreams there is witnessing and meeting the Beloved and Desired One  AB05166

Whatever is revealed as true in the world of dreams is a truthful dream and corresponds to reality.  AB02886

When man's soul is rarified and cleansed, spiritual links are established, and from these bonds sensations felt by the heart are produced. The human heart resembleth a mirror. When this is purified human hearts are attuned and reflect one another, and thus spiritual emotions are generated. This is like the world of dreams when man is detached from things which are tangible and experienceth those of the spirit. What amazing laws operate, and what remarkable discoveries are made! And it may even be that detailed communications are registered…  AB00862

It often occurs that man, while in the world of vision, receives a revelation, which later, comes to pass in the contingent world.  AB05049

In the world of sleep, too, one may have a dream which exactly comes true, while on another occasion one will have a dream which has absolutely no result.  AB00482

As to truthful dreams: I beg of God that thy inner eye (insight) may be so opened that thou mayest thyself differentiate between truthful and untruthful dreams.   AB01410

Whoso reciteth this Tablet with the love of the Lord in his heart will witness in his dreams whatever he hath desired of reunion with God, the Almighty, the Beloved.   BH04444

According to the prophets, vision is one of the types of revelation. Especially among the prophets of the Children of Israel, the matter of visions is very significant.  ABU0059

If thou art not seeing dreams (and visions), be thou not sad. Thou art going to see, whilst thou art awake. A wakeful eye is acceptable in the Threshold of the Almighty.   AB06279

The divine Sun has shed its effulgences upon you in sleep; if these have not faded from sight, then rend asunder the veils and gaze beyond them with a luminous countenance.  BH01852

"I have a spiritual, heavenly speech with thee, which, as a mercy, I do not wish to write by pen, or translate by tongue (i.e., put into words), but I will address them unto thee in a dream"   AB01293

Know that a mighty connection exists between the soul of man and the realities of all created things. That which we behold in a dream, for instance, sometimes later takes place in wakefulness.  ABU2466

Even as in the world of dreams when all the physical faculties are in abeyance and the soul travels in all realms seeing, hearing, speaking, so when the physical body decomposes, the soul is not affected.  ABU0541

Meditate thou, perform the ablution and pray to God before sleeping; and whatever the Merciful One may inspire unto thee at the time of revelation in a dream, that will be consistent with obtaining thy wishes.  AB04917

Give thanks unto God for having revealed unto thee, in visions, the mysteries of His Kingdom and for having strengthening thee to attain certain revelations which show thine utmost attraction and constancy unto this great Cause.   AB00438

Dreams are of three kinds. One is a true vision, which is exactly like the morning light and needs no interpretation. Exactly what is seen occurs in the same way...The second kind is the interpretive dream...Another kind is confused dreams.  ABU0059

"In the dream state, all of a person's physical faculties are impaired - the eye does not see, the ear does not hear, the hands and feet do not move. Yet the spirit continues its journey - in the world of dreams it sees, it hears, it flies, it carries out all its functions."   ABU0282

"That merciful maid-servant (i.e., thyself) seeth some spiritual dreams (or visions). these are, in reality, discoveries of the heart and are spiritual visions. I beg of God that, through the power of insight, thou mayest continually witness the lights of the Kingdom of ABHA."  AB02589

As for your question about meeting in dreams - consider dreams like wakefulness. Often two people meet and converse with each other; one remembers while the other completely forgets. It is the same in the dream world. The cause of forgetting is that the matter is not preserved as it should be in the faculty of memory.   AB00353

Consider man while in the state of sleep; it is evident that all his parts and members are at a standstill, are functionless. His eye does not see, his ear does not hear, his feet and hands are motionless; but, nevertheless, he does see in the world of dreams, he does hear, he speaks, he walks, he may even fly in an airplane.  ABU0096

Consider the world of dreams, wherein the body of man is immovable, seemingly dead, not subject to sensation; the eyes do not see, the ears do not hear nor the tongue speak. But the spirit of man is not asleep; it sees, hears, moves, perceives and discovers realities. Therefore, it is evident that the spirit of man is not affected by the change or condition of the body.  ABU0241

But in the world of dreams the soul sees when the eyes are closed. The man is seemingly dead, lies there as dead; the ears do not hear, yet he hears. The body lies there, but he -- that is, the soul -- travels, sees, observes. All the instruments of the body are inactive, all the functions seemingly useless. Notwithstanding this, there is an immediate and vivid perception by the soul.  ABU0138

I said that no one should object to Mrs. Nash, and Mrs. Nash should not mention her dream to anyone. It should remain private to herself, not that she should occupy gatherings with mention of her dream. You should know this and make the friends understand that if everyone were to mention their dreams in meetings, there would be no time for anything else. Mentioning dreams is permitted outside of meetings   AB02343

There are three kinds of visions or dreams. First, those that arise from over-excited nerves, or disordered stomach, and are of no use whatever. Second, when God sends a revelation to a soul that is not entirely pure from the world: to such an one He sends visions in symbols and signs, and these experiences need an interpreter. The third kind is when a soul who is severed from the world receives a revelation from God. In this station everything is clear and pure and needs no explanation.   ABU2957

O brother! When you yourself have experienced dreams and seen therein things that had one name and attribute there, but have another name and attribute here, then likewise affirm this difference of forms in the world after death. Know with certainty that the reality, essence, oneness, form and attributes differ. And if you have not witnessed this station with your own eyes, then turn to the interpretations of the mystics among the interpreters, who have interpreted every deed and word, and explained every thing.  BH00423

Know of a certainty that the dream world is equivalent to the spirit and like unto the sun in its station; nothing hath departed from the body. Nay rather, by its light whatever is in the heavens and the earth may be witnessed. Verily, God hath created the dream in His servants that they may be assured of the existence of the worlds hereafter and the life everlasting. As the life of this world becometh transformed after death, in the same manner regard what is seen in the dream: when thou ariseth nothing more of it is seen, save the effect of its interpretation.  BB00502

Regarding what you wrote about the dream, it is among the disturbing dreams whose effect in the outer world is for gathering. According to His command, if one sees a disturbing dream and anxiety and grief arise therefrom, one should recite this blessed verse: "O Thou through Whose name the ocean of joy surgeth and the fragrance of gladness is wafted! I beseech Thee to show me from the wonders of Thy grace that which shall gladden my eye and rejoice my heart. Thou art verily the Bestower, the Generous." And even for dreams that are not disturbing, it is beloved to recite it.   BH00483


The world of dreams has been and continues to be one of the realms of existence. Its details and mention have been revealed from the Supreme Pen in numerous Tablets. However, this dream and others like it that may cause harm and commotion in their expression and execution - acting upon them is not permitted, and indeed even their expression is not permitted. O Ibrahim! Today fix thy gaze upon the horizon of wisdom. Whatever is contrary [to divine law], acting upon it is forbidden. This is what the All-Wise hath decreed in His perspicuous Book. Dreams do not compare or equate with God's explicit ordinances.   BH01253

The other mode of the spirit's operation and influence is without these physical instruments and organs. Thus in sleep it sees without eyes, hears without ears, speaks without a tongue, and moves without feet--in brief, all these powers are exercised without bodily instrumentality. How often does it happen that the spirit has a dream during sleep whose meaning is precisely realized two years hence! Similarly, how frequently does the spirit solve in the dream state a problem that had proved insoluble in waking hours. In the waking state, the eye sees but a short distance, yet in dreams one who is in the East may behold the West. Awake, one perceives only the present; in sleep, one sees the future.   AB00228

As to the matter of dreams and visions: At times they are a manifestation of divine inspiration, a gateway and path, a sublime paradise of graceful trees and sweet fruits. At other times they are confused dreams, a mirage rather than water, a winding alley, nay rather a ruined house, a narrow path of mountain crags and stones. Sometimes they show a wilderness and the sight of a bird's nest and the course of the shining moon; at times flowing water, and like the hundred-petaled rose in bloom; the song of birds and scenes of flower gardens. Sometimes they involve seeking after companions and receiving guidance from leaders. In any case, diseased imagination presents gold and silver, but not from the bountiful mine. Therefore you must sanctify your thoughts from all these imaginings and content yourself with that which the Lord God has established as an enduring proof. Otherwise no soul will become firm and steadfast through such matters, for the heart will not find assurance. At every moment a doubt will cross the mind, and with every breath a misgiving will arise concerning the divine foundation.  AB00766

Know thou that divine vision on the Day of God is mentioned in all the holy scriptures, psalms, and tablets revealed from heaven unto the Prophets in bygone ages, past dispensations, and ancient cycles. Each Prophet gave glad-tidings to His people of the Day of Meeting. Refer thou to the existing texts in the Gospel, the Psalms, the Torah, and the Qur'an. God the Exalted saith in the Furqan: "Know that ye shall meet Him on the Day of Resurrection." And again: "They indeed are losers who deny their meeting with their Lord." And again: "That ye might be certain of the meeting with your Lord." And in a tradition related by twenty-one of the Companions, the Messenger of God--peace be upon Him and His family--said: "Ye shall see your Lord as ye see the full moon on the fourteenth night." And 'Ali--peace be upon Him--said: "I saw God and Paradise with mine own eyes." And again He said: "I saw Him and knew Him, then worshipped Him. I worship not a Lord whom I have not seen." Despite these explicit statements, clear texts, and inherited traditions, the peoples have differed on this question. Some have said that vision is impossible, citing the blessed verse: "No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is over all vision: He is above all comprehension, yet is acquainted with all things." Others have said that to wholly deny vision would necessitate denial of Qur'anic texts and disprove the infallibility of the Prophets, for to ask for that which is impossible is categorically impermissible for an infallible Prophet. Moses the Interlocutor--peace be upon Him--asked for vision, saying: "O my Lord! Show me Thyself that I may look upon Thee." Infallibility prevents asking for the impossible, and since this request issued from Him, it is conclusive proof and clear evidence of the possibility of vision and attainment of this aspiration.  AB00087

The divine outpourings and heavenly revelations of splendors are of two kinds. There are those that are by means of images, manifestations, mirrors, proofs and trusted guidance, for, if not through the intervention of an intermediary, the Ultimate Objective is not reached. The other is that which operates without a mediating vehicle or a proof leading to it.  AB08501

Consider thy state when asleep. Verily, I say, this phenomenon is the most mysterious of the signs of God amongst men, were they to ponder it in their hearts. Behold how the thing which thou hast seen in thy dream is, after a considerable lapse of time, fully realized. Had the world in which thou didst find thyself in thy dream been identical with the world in which thou livest, it would have been necessary for the event occurring in that dream to have transpired in this world at the very moment of its occurrence.  BH00354

The first is reality itself, the second because it is mixed with impressions of the heart requires interpretation, but confused dreams and fancies are imaginations...   ABU3303

Second, when God sends a revelation to a soul that is not entirely pure from the world: to such an one He sends visions in symbols and signs, and these experiences need an interpreter.   ABU2957

"O maidservant of GOD! Be rejoiced and glad, for I will address thee in the world of vision (in) speech whereby thy spirit will be cheered by that wonderful Address. Trust in this promise, whereby the hearts of the redeemers will be made joyous."  AB01623

When thou desirest and yearnest for meeting in the world of vision; at the time when thou art in perfect fragrance and spirituality, wash thy hands and face, clothe thyself in clean robes, turn toward the court of the Peerless One, offer prayer to Him and lay thy head upon the pillow. When sleep cometh, the doors of revelation shall be opened and all thy desires shall become revealed.  AB10279

As for what thou asked regarding the state of the spirit and its conditions, know with certainty that in sleep, the spirit is like the sun in its position--it does not leave the body, but rather by its light beholds the kingdom of the heavens and earth. Should one be a believer, he beholdeth all things, by God’s decree, according to his station, and there adhereth to him an influence that never leaveth him. But should one be an unbeliever, he beholdeth things as inverted images of unbelief; and unto him likewise—by the requirement of justice—there cleaveth an influence that never departeth from him. God has created sleep in His servants that they might be certain of the worlds of the hereafter and its enduring realm. The life of this world and its pleasures after death are like a dream one sees - when one awakens nothing remains of it except the trace of its interpretation.  BB00072
