
He has said: "An hour's reflection is better than seventy years of worship."  BH01933

Reflection on these blessed words is essential. Blessed are they who reflect.   BH11336

occupy yourself at all times in the remembrance of God and in meditation upon His verses   BH09019

This is why it is said that an hour's reflection is better than seventy years of worship   AB03376

Observe and ponder, for an hour's reflection is better than seventy years of pious worship.   BH03346

The Prophets and Holy Men always went into the wilderness to pray. Many of them walked upon Mount Carmel and communed with God.  ABU3486

Today striving is necessary, and likewise meditation on the signs in the horizons and within yourselves. Look ye in the Book of Certitude and ponder.   BH05704

Forget every thought and remembrance, and become intoxicated and bewildered from the brimming cup of divine remembrance, that thou mayest find stability in the essential unity.  AB08924

Verily spiritual exercises and eating little are no proof in my case, for I neither tire myself nor reduce my food due to my physical weakness. Rather, the proof is that I have no proof.   BB00154

Each one of us should meditate and discern things deeply and should shun all that would cause alienation and remoteness. We should be alert to pursue whatever would cause nearness and light.  AB02378

This is the time to soar into the atmosphere of knowledge and to rise and expound the divine mysteries. Concentrate your thoughts on the human heart and seek communion with the spirits of the Kingdom.   AB06807

In the Mosque of Acca for many years I had a simple room all to myself to which no one had any access. Now and then I would go there and stay one whole day, passing the time in quiet contemplation and prayer.  ABU1900

Through the grace of the existence of the King of existence, it is hoped that night and day you will be engaged in the remembrance and meditation of that Life of the world, so that the sweet fragrance of that station may perfume the nostrils.  AB09382

Through the faculty of meditation man attains to eternal life; through it he receives the breath of the Holy Spirit -- the bestowal of the Spirit is given in reflection and meditation. The spirit of man is itself informed and strengthened during meditation; through it affairs of which man knew nothing are unfolded before his view. Through it he receives Divine inspiration, through it he receives heavenly food. Meditation is the key for opening the doors of mysteries. In that state man abstracts himself: in that state man withdraws himself from all outside objects; in that subjective mood he is immersed in the ocean of spiritual life and can unfold the secrets of things-in-themselves.  ABU0395

They also meditate upon the scientific questions of the day, and these are likewise solved. Through the meditative faculty inventions are made possible, colossal undertakings are carried out; through it governments can run smoothly. Through this faculty man enters into the very Kingdom of God.  ABU0395
