

He would guide the Illuminati by their own philosophical principles, and with the mystics he would prove the Divine Advent in terms of inspiration and the celestial vision. He would convince the Shaykhi leaders by quoting the very words of their late Founders, Shaykh Ahmad and Siyyid Kazim, and would convert Islamic theologians with texts from the Qur'an and traditions from the Imams, who guide mankind aright. Thus he was an instant medicine to the ailing, and a rich bestowal to the poor.  AB00002

Memorize the talk I gave at Stanford University.   ABU3636


Make philosophical matters the basis of discussion, not beliefs.   AB05823

Never talk to God to a man with an empty stomach. Feed him first.   ABU3623

guide people to the Law of the All-Merciful through wisdom and utterance   BH04057

Whenever you see a thirsty soul, giving him a cup of this salubrious water.  ABU2428

I explained the benefits of peace and described the harms of war and conflict  ABU1848

It is not permissible to distribute teaching literature in the streets and bazaars.  AB10544

detailed talks are given according to the present capacity and receptivity of Europe  AB07745

But observe wisdom greatly and call souls to the Cause with wisdom to the extent possible.   AB03927

open your tongue with proof and argument, guide souls to the Abha Paradise and lead them to the extended shade   AB05822

Adapt the treatment to the spiritual needs of the patient and do not prescribe for those who refuse treatment.   ABU3222

In every meeting there is first some discussion of the Cause of God, then whoever has questions receives answers.   AB01951

spread musk-diffusing fragrances throughout the world, that all nostrils may be perfumed by the musk-pods of divine mysteries  AB07494

In all the Arabic and Persian utterances revealed from the Most Exalted Pen, the command to observe wisdom hath been sent down   BH06030

know with absolute certitude that victory and triumph in this Most Great Revelation have been through balanced and enkindled utterances   BH07637

These are the days for sowing seeds. One must continuously engage in cultivation to become a divine farmer and arrange mighty harvests.   AB04301

may open your tongue to guide souls, may lead multitudes to the shore of the sea of grace, and may illumine eyes with the light of guidance   AB05790

And in that great city, to whoever asks and seeks, speak of the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, not of beliefs, for this promotes progress.  AB01419

In Magazine and Newspaper articles, dogmatic assertions must be avoided, and only the broad, universal principles be discussed and amplified.   ABU2796

God willing, they and you and the other friends must endeavor with complete determination to educate the immature through wisdom and utterance.  BH00460

Today the power of the Kingdom grants victory to those souls who are confirmed in the service and are the cause of the guidance of the people.   AB05977

Synthesize and compose ye in a simple and effective manner the heavenly principles and present them to the listeners in meetings and gatherings.  AB04612

the purpose is to serve the Cause of God, and this is better achieved through goodly conduct, kindly association, sweet speech and true kindliness  AB07943

Therefore, use thy utmost power to sow and cast those pure seeds, the divine teachings, in the hearts which move and cheer by the fragrance of God.  AB09620

It explained the delivery of an eloquent talk by thee; that thou hast summoned the people to the Kingdom of God and hast spread the Divine Teachings.  AB05140

The most advisable thing, therefore, is to ... discuss "Pure and sanctified Living", "Universal Brotherhood", and the "Philosophy of Universal Religion".   ABU3341

(In answer to my question regarding what should be done for people who have become interested in the Cause and then have lost their interest the Master said:) "It is because you do not finish with them. They have their old superstitions and their hearts are attached to them; after a while they become cool again. They must have a new birth as His Holiness Christ said. They must become Bahais. That only their idea that Bahais are good is not enough. People are ignorant, they must become wise; they are blind, they must have sight; they are deaf, they must find hearing; they are sick, they must be treated; their children must arrive at maturity; they are earthly, they must become heavenly,-then they will become Bahais."  ABU2657

it is incumbent upon thee to enkindle thyself with the fire of the love of God in order that thy words may have an effect in hearts which are as of hard stone   AB07040

Outwardly remain engaged in the same work as before, but keep in view the teaching of the Cause and strive with consummate wisdom to promote the religion of God.  AB03489

They must establish teaching gatherings and instruct souls in proofs and evidences, so that fresh youth may be educated and confirmed and arise to spread God's religion  AB04075

The basis of the Call [i.e., teaching and delivering addresses] must be the Oneness of the world of humanity...This must be the basis of your addresses in public meetings.  AB11086

Have them come to your home, invite them to dinner; then later, after they are confirmed, bring them to the regular Assembly meetings. "Group meetings" He said "were good."  ABU2637

It is because I perceive the pulse of the people and the needs of the present circumstances that the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty successively rain down and assist me.  ABU2751

Counsel thou the people with wisdom and utterance, so that thy words may create in their hearts what will draw them nigh unto God, your Lord, the Almighty, the All-Compelling.   BH03720

associate with the people of the earth with wisdom, utterance, spirit and fragrance, that perchance through thy mention some soul may turn to the lights of the Sun of Revelation   BH04442

Aid thou the Cause of God through wisdom and utterance, lest the clamor of those who have turned away be raised when the Countenance of the Ancient One came with a manifest light.  BH04345

The servants must be educated like children - first with gentle nourishment until they progress to meat and its like. Likewise, words that cause flight and denial are not permitted.   BH00571

It is the time of sweetness and the time of freshness and grace. That is, one must speak with utmost sweetness in the gatherings for teaching and become like a sugar-breaking parrot.  AB00458

The teacher is like a farmer who scatters seeds. The rain of mercy pours down and each seed produces a hundred. That pure seed forms harvests and becomes the cause of heavenly blessing.  AB02880

Only through the constant widening of the circle of one's acquaintances and friends the Truth will be made known and the principles proclaimed. Save this there will be found no other way.  ABU2180

However, upon first arrival, mingle with others and establish fellowship and association until familiarity is achieved and hearts are attracted. Then hasten to the gathering of the friends   AB01306

Often you cannot mention this glorious Revelation, for their prejudice would interfere, and they would not listen. But you will find that you can always talk to them about the love of God.   ABU2800

Call all to the oneness of the world of humanity and the dawning of the Sun of Truth from the horizon of Iran and servitude to 'Abdu'l-Baha, and explain the Center of the Covenant, and that is all.   AB04320

that the wine of utterance may so intoxicate him that he will arise to proclaim the Most Great Name amidst all peoples, that perchance they who slumber upon the couch of idle fancies may be awakened   BH09013

Speak in public meetings. Deliver talks on universal love, the greatness of the cause of Baha'u'llah, the penetration of the Word of God, and the general principles of the Revelation of Baha'u'llah.   ABU2236

There are, however many Tablets, many books by Mirza Abul Fazl, and other Baha'i writers which you read and keep the contents in your memory, so that you may bring those proofs in your conversation.   ABU1793

The study of teaching is most essential. The gatherings of the friends should be classes for learning to teach, meaning that in every meeting the focus of discussion should be on proofs and evidences.  AB08004

We have enjoined wisdom upon all and forbidden that which causeth souls to be perturbed... The manner and method of teaching have been revealed in the Tablets - all must act accordingly and be watchful.  BH03336

Thou must reconcile together the adherents of various religions and the notaries of different creeds with the solvent alchemy of love and infuse amongst them Baha'i freedom of conscience and solidarity.  ABU0390

In the school, teach those divine newcomers heavenly manners, and in the school of unity become a teacher of love, and teach the children of the merciful friends the ways and customs of the love of God   AB06321

As this place is a summer resort and many prominent people are present, therefore, unless they should themselves ask, the friends should not teach openly. They must deal with them with perfect dignity and honor.   ABU2745

May silent and mute birds burst forth in melodies like the Psalms of David that minds and consciousness are amazed, and like brilliant candles may they become illumined and radiant with the lights of recognition.  AB00705

You must exert the utmost effort in the lessons you are teaching so that souls will arise who can prove the manifestation of the One revealed on Sinai with decisive proofs, clear evidence and conclusive arguments.   AB01732

Like unto the stars arise ye every day from a horizon. Like unto the nightingales, sing every day from a different rose-bush. Like unto the breeze, waft every morning from a garden. Do not stay a long time anywhere.  ABU1408

One must speak according to the station and rank of the hearer, that he may become capable of hearing the divine melody. The wine of mystic knowledge must be given to each soul according to his capacity and measure.   BH00388

"Do not speak at first so as to amaze and bewilder the people. Speak upon topics that are suitable to the mind of your hearers, topics that do not amaze. Emphasize the Teachings as I have done when I was in America."  ABU2255

Most people are as infants; they must first be nourished with the milk of wisdom and gentle foods, and afterward with stronger nourishment. Thus doth wisdom dictate. Verily, thy Lord is the Educator, the All-Knowing.   BH01282

Therefore, O student of the True Teacher, listen and strive, and make an effort to exalt the Word of God and spread the divine fragrances, so that you may become a teacher of the horizons through the power of illumination.  AB07557

Should you find one who is receptive, turn to him and remind him of thy Lord's sovereignty; and should you find one who turneth away, leave him and turn to the Lord of the worlds. Beware lest anyone's rejection sadden thee   BH04293

You must impress upon all that the triumph of God's Cause hath not been and is not through contention, warfare and corruption. All must strive and endeavor to conquer hearts and souls with the sword of wisdom and utterance.   BH00318

all speeches given in the world today, if they yield results, are temporary except for speeches given about the Cause of Baha'u'llah - those speeches resound through all future ages and centuries and their results are eternal   AB01816

Speak of the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones, and mention His counsels and advice. This is best, for internal and external enemies lie in wait to create corruption and sedition.   AB02905

These souls should move about the regions purely to encourage and urge on the friends of God, and if they find a receptive soul who is without ulterior motives and far from mischief and corruption, they should also teach them.   AB01005

"For the present those amongst you who are interested in the Cause, gather together once a week, read the Tablets of Baha'u'llah, speak on the Cause and whenever you find a thirsty soul, offer him the cup of this salubrious water."  ABU2357

In order that they may comprehend more easily my answers, I wrote in their own 'terminologies' without prearrangement. They were dumbfounded and thought no one could write in that style unless perfectly familiar with their writings.   ABU0761

Be thou observant in all circumstances of the dictates of wisdom, and speak unto men according to their capacities, for should an infant be given meat in its early days, it would perish. Thus doth thy Lord, the Merciful, counsel thee.  BH01654

Ye must now continue your efforts, diligently and with the utmost constancy, occupying yourselves with the remembrance of God, reading the verses, reciting the prayers, engaging in consultation, and seeking to propagate the Word of God   AB06782

By deeds. This way is open to all, and deeds are understood by all. Join yourselves to those who work for the poor, the weak and the unfortunate; this is greatly to be commended. To teach by words requires the skill of a wise physician.  ABU2809

Different teachings were needed for different people. If you give the same teachings to all some might be retarded by them instead of helped. Christ taught some things to his disciples which he commanded them not to tell the Pharisees.   ABU0559

The loved ones of God must, like the morning breeze, waft over every land, that all regions of the earth may be blessed with the Most Great Bounty. Be thou a throbbing artery in the body of the world and a wind blowing over the nations.   BH03199

The friends of God should similarly stimulate the susceptibilities and whet the appetite of the spirit and then utter the words of God. Otherwise these souls who suffer from a dulling of the sense remain deprived of all these fragrances.  AB08158

Become speaking nightingales and with spiritual melodies teach lessons of inner meanings and realities, so that you may bring the birds of the meadow into ecstasy and rapture and set the birds of the garden of love to singing and melody   AB05064

The explanations must be adapted to the capacity of the hearers and suited to the exigency of the time. Beauty of style, moderation in delivery and suitability of words and meanings are necessary. It is not only a matter of uttering words.  ABU1828

Teaching the Cause is not only through the tongue. It is through deeds, conduct, pleasing disposition, happiness of nature, kindness, sympathy, good fellowship, trustworthiness, holiness, sanctity, virtue, purity of ideals and lastly, speech.  ABU2062

they must be conducted with the utmost wisdom and with perfect calmness and dignity, so that they may not cause alarm among the ignorant or anxiety among the foolish. And if wisdom is not observed, the meetings will yield the opposite result.   AB11876

Beware lest thou dispute with any soul or contend with anyone in teaching the Cause of thy Lord, the Ruler, the All-Wise. Those who wage war and shed blood are in grievous heedlessness. By God! Victory lieth in expression, not in sword and spear  BH02827

First they must strive to remove any apprehension in people. For example, each of the friends should choose one person every year and first establish good relations until fear disappears, then gradually teach that person. This is the best method.   AB04113

However, in these days the friends in India must conduct themselves in such a way that complete separation from other communities does not occur, for complete separation causes souls not to draw near, and without association teaching becomes impossible.  AB00311

You must certainly give importance to this matter and act according to it, for therein lies complete wisdom. Otherwise, those countries will become difficult, even more severe than Iran. You must exercise great caution - this is necessary and obligatory.  AB09612

If you have a word or a truth, which others are deprives of, present with it utmost compassion. If it is accepted, the aim is attained. If otherwise, you should not interfere. Leave him to himself, while advancing to God, the Mighty, the Self-subsisting.  ABU0791

The method of instruction which ye have established, beginning with proofs of the existence of God and the oneness of God, the mission of the Prophets and Messengers and Their teachings, and the wonders of the universe, is highly suitable. Keep on with this.  AB08631

"Teach them as the truths contained in their own religion; and after you have instructed them and gladdened their hearts, you may tell them of the Messenger, and remind them of the promise of Buddha that another teacher should come, teaching the same truths."  ABU2915

People must be educated with kindness and forbearance and drawn to the eternal realm. For when someone who has clung to certain beliefs for years suddenly hears their opposite without understanding the reason, it will surely cause them to withdraw and object.   BH00466

Today all must free themselves from their own will, desire, conjectures, imaginings and fancies, and fix their gaze upon the Will of God. By His very Self, the triumph achieved through one goodly deed is superior and more perfect than a hundred thousand swords.   BH00364

These souls are like nursing infants - they must gradually be made familiar with delicious food. Sometimes if heaviness occurs in their organs of perception, you must treat them with moistening, purgative medicines of kindliness, silence, patience and forbearance.  AB02663

Those spiritual friends must show some forbearance with the ignorant ones. One cannot give delicious foods to nursing infants, and one must not give delectable dishes to the sick. One must show patience gradually until the blind and mute become seeing and speaking.  AB06642

It takes not life but gives spirit; it prevents not living but grants immortality; it blinds not eyes but makes the blind to see; it severs not heads but bestows crowns; it rends not breasts but grants pure souls; it plunges not daggers into hearts but makes them aware.  AB04086

There must needs be many Persian teachers in America who have mastered well the intricacies of the English language. If a number of Persian teachers who are endowed with eloquent tongues knew the English language and travelled to those parts they could attract many souls to the Cause.   ABU2360

First of all, you should not argue with them or oppose them, or they will deny even the things which they see with their eyes. For example, they will see the Light here, and they will say there is no light. One must talk to them very kindly, in order to let them know the desired object.   ABU0965

Converse with one another at length about the proofs and evidences of the Manifestation of the Perspicuous Beauty so that each one of the handmaids of God will refine her powers of utterance and develop eloquence of speech, so that each may become an instrument of guidance to many others.   AB01891

The Master used the metaphor of flowers to explain spiritual truth: "If you have a bed of lilies-of-the-valley that you love and tenderly care for, they cannot see you, nor can they understand your care, nevertheless, because of that tender care, they flourish. So it is with your husband."  ABU3058

The teacher of the Cause must know by knowledge, by intuition, by experience and by inspiration what to say in every meeting. It does no universal good to repeat the same facts in every gathering. A teacher must assume the mental garb of his audience, and speak to them from their standpoint.  ABU1608

Be as the morning breeze unto the cities and villages that their inhabitants may be awakened thereby, or as the spring winds unto both noble and lowly. Convey the Cause with wisdom that those seized by the stupor of heedlessness may be awakened thereby and turn unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH02181

Therefore, the loved ones of God must undertake this momentous task with wisdom and utterance. Some they must teach through words, some through deeds and actions, and some through character, drawing them to the Divine Court. Goodly deeds and spiritual attributes are themselves teachers of the Cause.   BH00501

This is the season of seed - sowing. Whosoever scattereth the seeds will gather many harvests. Today the matter of conveying the Message is successful or confirmed. For example during the season of seed-sowing, the matter of ploughing and planting is successful and not harvesting and crop-gathering.   ABU1087

Teaching must be done with wisdom according to people's capacity: "Most people you will observe to be as infants - were they given strong food at first, they would perish and never reach maturity. They must be given the milk of divine knowledge from the breast of wisdom until they attain true maturity"   BH02055

They should quench every thirsty one, make every unfortunate one fortunate and joyful, become the companion of every sorrowful one, give hope to every despairing one, grant a portion to those without portion, guide those who are lost, make the dark ones illumined and transform the satanic into the merciful.  AB02224

The disciples of Christ, with the exception of St. Paul, were not learned men, but they taught the world. By the power of attraction, zeal and conflagration, as well as severance from the world and by the giving of life, they taught. And this proved the magnet attracting the confirmations of the Holy Spirit.  ABU1137

We must present to the public the proofs and evidences of this Cause with a tongue of fire so that souls may be exhilarated, minds become full of tumult and acclamation. With words of love and illumination we must set hearts aglow with the fire of the love of God, enkindle minds with the power of the Kingdom.  AB09098

Like unto the cup-bearers of eternity turn ye round in the assemblages of mankind the overflowing goblets of guidance and intoxicate them with the wine of the love of God. Walk ye always in the pathway of lights and let the pillars of shining Bahai inspiration lead and direct you to your glorious destination.  ABU0817

And if possible, it would be very beneficial to make a second winter journey to Mazandaran, especially to Nur, with perfect wisdom, for in Nur there are some souls who have not yet crossed the bridge - perhaps through your guidance and direction they may become firm and detach themselves from all else but Truth.  AB00706

Now praise be to God the Hands are confirmed in the love of 'Abdu'l-Baha - this is better than a thousand votes. Through the aid and grace of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of His threshold, they must become confirmed in such luminosity that all will be attracted with heart and soul.   AB00315

His Holiness Haji Nabil has praised and commended your teaching classes most highly, saying that you arrange gatherings for exposition and present divine proofs and arguments with the most wonderful explanation, and a group of newcomers to God's garden are growing and developing from the stream of divine knowledge.   AB02711

It behoveth the people of God to be forbearing. They should impart the Word of God according to the hearer's particular measure of understanding and capacity, that perchance the children of men may be roused from heedlessness and set their faces towards this Horizon which is immeasurably exalted above every horizon.   BH03944

When a speaker's brow shineth with the radiance of the love of God at the time of his exposition of a subject, and he is exhilarated with the wine of true understanding, he becometh the centre of a potent force which like unto a magnet will attract the hearts. This is why the expounder must be in the utmost enkindlement.  AB10258

First, one may teach by deeds, then speak the word. First, one must become thirsty, then the salubrious water may be offered. No matter how delicious the water is, one who is not thirsty will not enjoy it. Therefore, make ye an effort, so that the people may become thirsty; then enable them to quaff from this divine Chalice.  AB11078

When they observe that the intent is not contention and victory, but rather to uphold the word of truth and sincerity and to manifest humanity and divine mercy, they will surely be fair and the eyes and heart of their original nature will open. By God's grace they will become a new creation with keen vision and fresh hearing.  BHU0010

To any soul whom you observe is seeking truth with pure intent, convey the Word of God, regardless of what group they may belong to. However, if you observe that someone is from among the unjust materialists who are obstinately opposed and does not seek after truth, conversation with such persons is futile and a waste of time.  AB08654

If thou findest one who is receptive, impart unto him what thou art commanded; otherwise, turn away from him and turn unto God, thy Lord. He, verily, shall suffice thee in truth against all that hath been created in the heavens and on earth. Nothing escapeth His knowledge, and all things are recorded with Him in a clear tablet.   BH01466

However, you must proceed with perfect wisdom. If you tarry in a place and meet some souls who have rent asunder certain veils, this would be most excellent. For were your presence to become known, clamor would arise among the people. Patience, calm and concealment are necessary. One must proceed gradually and with perfect wisdom.  BH01779

We must present to the public the proofs and evidences of this Cause with a tongue of fire - so that the souls may be exhilarated, the minds become full of tumult and acclamation. With the Words of Love and Illumination we must set the hearts aglow with the Fire of the Love of God, enkindle the minds with the Power of the Kingdom.  ABU2052

since people are beginners, I deal with them gently in conversation according to their capacity and their being beginners, for this is the beginning of establishment. Most talks in great gatherings are according to the capacity of those present. The purpose is that no one should object until the Cause of God is firmly established.   AB00942

Yet, one must teach with the utmost wisdom. Should one succeed in illumining a soul through the light of guidance, one should as far as possible conceal his identity. That soul should in turn teach another and conceal the matter. My meaning is that many souls are most eager to enter the Kingdom, yet they fear exposure and publicity.  AB11627

Today the greatest of all affairs is the teaching of God's Cause, therefore the handmaidens of the All-Merciful must focus their thoughts upon it, become familiar night and day with studying divine proofs and evidences, and when gathering together discuss divine proofs and evidences and give glad tidings of the Day of Manifestation.  AB01261

Waste not the seeds of divine wisdom on barren ground. Speak according to the capacity of each soul - all things have their measure with Him. The seeking child must be nourished with the milk of praiseworthy character and goodly deeds, and afterward with the sweet fruits of divine authority and the like, until reaching the stage of maturity.   BH02623

We have pre-ordained the delivery of the Truth through eloquence and demonstration; therefore beware not to dispute or argue with anyone, and he who wishes implicitly and sincerely to receive the Truth for the sake of the Face of his Lord, will be confirmed by the Holy Spirit and inspired with what will enlighten the heart of the world.   ABU0050

The friends should only mention the teachings of the Blessed Beauty to outsiders, not the beliefs. They should absolutely not mention a word about beliefs, and if someone asks what belief they have regarding the Blessed Beauty, they should answer that He is the foremost Teacher and Educator in recent ages and 'Abdu'l-Baha is the Center of His Covenant.  AB01641

Teaching is through heavenly deeds, merciful qualities, clear and evident speech, and brilliant glad tidings radiating from one's countenance during utterance and exposition. One's deeds and actions must testify to the truth of one's words and statements. This is the way of every diffuser of God's fragrances and attribute of every sincere one in God's Cause.  AB00553

Rather, confine thy words to glad-tidings of the Kingdom of God, to the influence of the Word of God, to the sanctification of the Cause of God, to eternal happiness, to spiritual joy and delight, to divine attributes, to the explanation of the rising of the Sun of Truth above the horizons, and to the breathing of the spirit of life into the body of creation  AB07020

If thou wishest to guide the souls, it is incumbent on thee to be firm, to be good and to be imbued with praiseworthy attributes and divine qualities under all circumstances. Be a sign of love, a manifestation of mercy, a fountain of tenderness, kind-hearted, good to all and gentle to the servants of God, and especially to those who bear no relation to thee, both men and women.  AB08458

This is possible in this way: that one should occupy oneself with reciting the Qur'an, and in connection with its verses, relate the events that occurred in the time of the Prophets - the oppositions that arose, the calamities that descended, the trials that came, the insolence of the peoples, the blindness of the masses, and the imprisonment of the loved ones of the All-Merciful   AB02465

When you are remedying certain prominent citizens and discern in them a hearing ear, share the Word of God. However, all your teaching must be through deeds. If two or three of the notables of ... embrace the Cause, great results will appear. When men like them accept the Faith, keep it secret and do not introduce them to the believers, as the foolish will be the cause of trouble.   ABU0801

Therefore, look not to thine own capacity and capability. Rather, when teaching, turn thy face to the Abha Kingdom, seek divine confirmations, and with perfect assurance and power, open thy tongue and speak whatsoever is inspired in thy heart. Be not disheartened by the objections and opposition of the antagonists, nor be discouraged. The more they object, the more firmly shouldst thou respond.  AB08275

This servant submits that now that you have arrived in that land, if matters gain prominence beyond the bounds of moderation, most people will withdraw themselves, thereby causing the work of teaching to fall into delay. However, if one proceeds with perfect wisdom, perhaps through association with people, some receptive souls may be awakened from the sleep of heedlessness and turn to the Truth.  BH01015

When the beloved Habib the Carpenter wished to prevent the polytheists from idol worship, he attributed polytheism to himself, saying "Why should I not worship Him Who has created me and to Whom ye shall be brought back?" But his intention was "Why do ye not worship Him Who created you?" He attributed polytheism to himself so it would not be harsh to their ears. This was his method of instruction.   AB02214

Do not rise up against anyone in conflict and strife, and do not lay the foundation of contention. Rather, with the utmost kindness and humility and submissiveness, convey the word of truth and show proof and evidence. If they accept, excellent indeed. If not, do not be disheartened, do not become sorrowful, do not be dejected, do not seek weariness, do not complain. Trust in God. Read again, speak again, show affection again.  AB00901

They must act with perfect wisdom. They must never explicitly speak of the Revealer and Sender. Most people are immature and as infants. When a child is born from its mother, it must be given milk, not meat and heavy foods, so that step by step it may be nurtured and reach a stage where it can partake of various fruits and manifold bounties. You must greatly emphasize concealment of the Cause, wisdom, and tolerance with people.  BH00992

Where real religion is felt it is often the heart which speaks rather than the head, and if we want to extend our sympathy to such as these, we must look into their hearts to find their needs, and treat their beliefs with charity. With others, whose intellects have awakened, but whose hearts have not, we must address the mind. Where neither the heart nor the head is yet aroused, we must appeal to the emotions; for we must extend help to all.   ABU1853

All must be seen in complete humility and must, in truth, gird up the loins of service firmly. We beseech God to assist them in this. By My life! If they were to become aware of this Manifestation and its sovereignty, they would be thunderstruck, let alone draw near to it. Most are ignorant to this day - none has become aware of the divine Tree and its sovereignty, grandeur, and power, save whom thy Lord willed. Therefore, an expounder is needed.   BH01405

With words of love and illumination we must set hearts aglow with the fire of the love of God, enkindle minds with the power of the Kingdom. We must explain the teachings orally so that hearts may become like pure fountains, the invisible inspirations may descend, the bounties of the Holy Spirit may be revealed, the rays of the Sun of Reality may shine; the breezes of the Paradise of Abha may waft and the glad tidings of the Kingdom of Abha may be announced.  AB09098

Just as a tailor examines the form and stature when considering cloth and garments of silk and wool, and cuts and tailors the clothing according to the figure, likewise those who bestow the garment of knowledge and understanding and sew the robe of guidance must consider capacity, capability and worthiness, and accordingly arrange the garment of education and the shirt of guidance, clothing therewith the form of search and the reality of receptive and attentive souls.   AB05818

Now is the time of laying the foundation. Now we must gather brick, stone, wood, iron, and other building materials! This is not the time of decoration. We must strive day and night and think and work. What can I say that may become effective? What can I write that may bring forth fruits? Nothing else will be useful, today. The interests of such a Glorious Cause will not advance without undivided attention. While we are carrying this load we cannot carry any other load!   ABU1716

In the associations, discuss all the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, for today in the Western regions this has influence. If they ask what belief you hold regarding Baha'u'llah, say that we consider Him the first Teacher of the world and the first Educator of the world in this age, and explain this: that these teachings of universal peace and other teachings issued from the pen of Baha'u'llah fifty years ago and were published in Iran and India and spread throughout the world.   AB00563

If each one of the friends establishes friendship and fellowship with one of the heedless ones, associates and mingles with him in utmost kindness, and conducts himself with divine character, behavior, goodly conduct, and heavenly counsels and advice, undoubtedly that heedless person will gradually become awakened and that ignorant one will become knowing. People are fearful; therefore, one must proceed in such a way that first removes the fear, then allows the word to penetrate.  AB01174

The conditions of wisdom have formerly been sent down in various Tablets from the Most Exalted Pen. Among these conditions is that in whatever city ye enter, deposit ye the signs of God in a secure and safe place - that is, outside your dwelling place - and with the tongue, with perfect wisdom and utterance, remind the seekers. And when receptivity is observed, at that time show forth the waves of the ocean of the Merciful's utterance - that is, call for and recite some of the verses.   BH00251

One must always use the simplest and most direct words that the meaning may be easily conveyed to the minds of hearers. In writing we must use the same style as in public-speaking. One must be the mirror of the other, reflecting the ideals, feelings and thoughts of the average man. The Blessed Perfection often remarked that a lecture must be like unto a cool, pure, refreshing stream of water. It is not necessary to use dark, obsolete and difficult words; the simpler the more effective.   ABU2903

The teacher will stand up beside the black board facing the pupils. With chalk he will write the first letter of the Alphabeth 'A'. All the children will follow the motion of his hand and write [on] their slates 'A'. Then he will tell them aloud this 'A' and they should repeat it after him. In this manner they will study the writing and reading of the alphabet at the same time. The next step will be the simple combination of two or three letters until the children are well-grounded in them.  ABU0568

If we possess a word of Truth, we will deliver it to the people; if they accept the aim is attained, if they reject we leave them to themselves and pray for them. We have to do this, however, most kindly, without the least sign of ill-feeling and opposition. We will not engage in dispute and altercation. A Baha'i teacher must keep these facts always before his mind, lest in the course of his lecture he may make a dogmatic assertion which may arouse the combative, prejudicial spirit of the listeners.   ABU1232

First, one must consider what are the veils and doubts of each person, then speak according to their condition. Likewise, the believing and knowledgeable women should visit some homes, first establishing friendship, then gradually encouraging and urging investigation and search into this Cause. And when an honored lady accepts, they should keep it confidential and not broadcast it, for there are many souls who in their innermost hearts have the utmost longing but fear of publicity causes them to hold back.   AB02775

He should first diagnose the illness of each soul and discover its temperament, capacity and receptivity, arrange treatment on that basis, and show the utmost consideration and kindness. He should truly be benevolent and caring toward the sick and ailing, not rejecting and banishing them when he sees their illness is severe, nor dealing with them harshly. Rather, he should strive to the extent possible for their health, and when he becomes helpless and observes resistance to treatment, he should leave them be.  AB00390

Verily utterance is a substance that seeketh penetration and moderation. As to penetration, it is conditional upon refinement, which in turn is dependent upon hearts which are detached and pure. As to moderation, this is to be combined with wisdom, which We have revealed in the Books and Tablets. Whosoever possesseth these twin essentials is indeed possessed of the Greater Elixir, for an active substance hath ever been and shall be endowed with these two stations, and it is this that penetrateth and transformeth.  BH04734

In the early stages, thou shouldst seek out the company of the eminent members of the populace and, turning thyself in utter lowliness to the unseen realm of Glory, thou shouldst pray for succour and protection so that the Holy Spirit may, through the outpourings of its grace, grant thee its assistance. When, by thy godly conduct and demeanour, thy fervour, thy chaste and lucid utterance, thou shalt have succeeded in winning the affection of one and all, then shall the portals of heavenly guidance be opened wide.  AB02027

First, souls must be made thirsty, then the sweet and flowing water should be offered. If the sacred writings were now translated, published and distributed, everyone who obtained a Tablet would be content with reading it and say, I am now familiar with the foundations of this community and need investigate no further. Yet the Tablets must be expounded by the interpreter - that is, the interpreter must first establish the foundation, and after establishing proofs, then read a Tablet; only then will it have effect.  AB03760

The friends and strangers must know and realize that all the believers of God have the utmost love for His Majesty the Padeshah of the Ottoman empire and that they are entreating for him protection and confirmation. This matter if it could be delivered in a proper way through American believers like Mr. Remey, Mr. MacNutt, Mr. Wilhelm, Mr. Dodge, Mr. Chase, Mr. Woodcock and others, to the Ambassador or the members of the Legation, it would be very appropriate. But this matter must be taught in an incidental way, not especially for this purpose.  AB00603

Divine matters are in complete accord with reason and science, but the issue lies in the expression of things, which requires an interpreter. The same matter can be presented in many different ways. For example, in Europe and America, we never said, O people, the Promised One of all has appeared, come and worship! Had we done so, they would have shunned us from the first word and would not have listened. Now if divine matters are expressed pleasantly, they will never cause rejection and aversion, but rather will lead to the guidance of many souls.  ABU0277

Amongst other things is the holding of the meetings for teaching so that blessed souls and the old ones from amongst the believers may gather together the youths of the love of God in schools of instruction and teach them all the divine proofs and irrefragable arguments, explain and elucidate the history of the Cause, and interpret also the prophecies and proofs which are recorded and are extant in the divine books and epistles regarding the manifestation of the Promised One, so that the young ones may go in perfect knowledge in all these degrees.   AB00032


Abdul-Baha traveled continuously for four years in the countries of Africa, America and Europe, but in cities and villages where the Call of God had not reached the ears of the inhabitants and the worldwide fame of God had not been heard, he opened his tongue to teach in assemblies, gatherings and churches in a new way that accorded with their capacity and capability. Now you too, in cities and villages where they are heedless and unaware, should first open your tongue with counsels and bring hearts to ecstasy through the sweetness of speech, then deliver the Word.   AB01127

that your honor should, secretly not openly, without ceremony or fame, with perfect wisdom, constantly travel throughout that region and territory from place to place. In each city stay two or three days, meeting the friends privately, encouraging and urging them forward, bringing them to a state of warmth and enthusiasm, conveying news of this love, giving glad tidings of divine favors, making souls detached, turning hearts toward the Abha Kingdom, guiding them to spread the divine fragrances, and directing them to conduct and behavior in accordance with the divine teachings.   AB00428

The purpose of mentioning the Christians is that the divines of that community are far removed from the Muhammadan Law--may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake--and in their deficient understanding they have written refutations attempting to invalidate the truth. Therefore, the hearts and ears of that people are filled with unworthy and rejected utterances. Today it is advisable that if someone from that community should question you about Him, one should not become entangled in yes and no in reply. It is more in keeping with piety to say in response that today is not the time for such discussions.   BH01389

Open not thy mouth unless thou findest an attentive ear, and when thou findest a receptive ear, impart unto it what God hath graciously imparted unto thee, if thou be of them who remember. Open not thine eyes save unto a beauteous countenance, and if thou findest penetrating vision, show unto it what is concealed within thee of the beauty of knowledge, that thou mayest be of them who give glad tidings. Waste not the seed of wisdom in barren soil, and be not of the prodigal. But when thou findest good earth, deposit therein the seed of wisdom and knowledge, that there may grow therefrom a goodly and wondrous plant.   BH00745

This delightful nightly gathering of the family before sleep was an essential feature of the spiritual system of education fostered and upheld by the Blessed Perfection. Generally the meeting lasted one hour during which time he exhorted his hearers and tried to teach them in manifold ways, relating stories, uttering pithy remarks, cracking jokes and expressing truths laconically. In this manner he intended to instruct us but there were some who could not appreciate the efficacy and beauty of this method and took the strange notion in their heads that this was purely a nice way of passing the time in social intercourse.   ABU0283

One must educate the immature through wisdom and utterance and according to their capacity until they reach maturity. Before the martyrdom of Badi' - upon him be the Glory of God - a number were commanded to speak openly and without concealment among the people. Thus did certain souls become so enkindled with the fire of God's commanding Word that they spoke of Him with the utmost power, might and steadfastness until they quaffed the cup of martyrdom. However, after the martyrdom of Badi' - upon him be the Glory of God - the decree of wisdom was sent down from the heaven of God's Will. Now all are commanded to observe it.   BH00449

Most souls are inwardly inclined to learn about it but fear becoming known, because as soon as someone shows interest, the friends announce it with drums and trumpets. Since prominent persons are in the public eye, they face fear and danger, and truly they have some justification, as they would quickly be subjected to attacks and inevitably face difficulties and problems with various people who would use the matter of these important persons' faith as a pretext to overcome them. In any case, guide such souls privately as much as you can, strongly advise them to keep it confidential, and likewise do not mention them to anyone else.  AB03198

Before they arise to teach they must know what is meant by 'teaching.' It does not mean an eloquent review of the various events of the cause or the masterful presentation of the principles of the Movement, or the utterance of a conglomeration of high-sounding words. It means the power of spiritual transmutation, the latent energy of divine metallurgy, the force of celestial regeneration. The words of the speaker must be impregnated with the Fire of the Love of God - so that the lives may be changed, the characters renovated, the customs renewed, the morals readjusted and the whole gamut of life raised to the highest and loftiest scales and musical tones.  ABU0389

For instance, should one speak at the outset concerning Divinity to one of the followers of the Qur'an who is afflicted with the malady of vain imaginings and whose highest understanding is confined to the station of leadership and guardianship, he would surely perish, for he hath failed to comprehend the meaning of the Qur'anic verses concerning the Day of Resurrection and the appearance of Truth from the heaven of the Will of the Lord of Unity, nay, he hath not even caught their fragrance. Therefore, at first one must speak with him according to his capacity until he advanceth from the stage of childhood to the station of maturity and becometh able to bear the Most Exalted Word.   BH01105

We must ever observe the capacity of the people. Every human being has a spiritual capacity. It is so reported in Materia Media that once the illness is diagnosed, the treatment is made easy. Therefore, the believers as the spiritual physicians must diagnose the spiritual sicknesses of the people and then treat it accordingly. Now just as there are various degrees of capacities, likewise there must needs be different modes of expression, various ways of teaching. Often it has happened that one talk will be the cause of awakening to one soul and of complete indifference to another. We must ever strive to find out the point which is of interest to the other party and speak with him from that standpoint.   ABU1940


Teaching in a limited way consists of the following, namely: explaining the proofs and evidences in regard to the principles of Baha'u'llah, quoting prophecies from the Old and New Testaments, stating that that Day has come. Moreover the intellectual proofs and evidences are this and this, etc. Teaching in an unlimited sense consists of the following and is very good, very great: the teacher himself (or herself) becomes the standing proof of Baha'u'llah -- that he (or she) may become a miracle of Baha'u'llah with such power and such knowledge and desire, such actions and such words and character, and such heavenly powers, that you may live amongst the people, that you may be a proof, undeniable proof, of Baha'u'llah.   ABU1144

During this journey through Europe and America, whatever was spoken was in consideration of the capacity, inclination, and attitude of the inhabitants and nations, even to the point that teaching was according to their taste and temperament. It was observed that if proofs and arguments were presented according to the principles of teaching in the East, and if truths and meanings were discussed, it would have absolutely no effect on the listeners. Therefore, the manner and method of teaching was changed. The presentation became focused on issues, teachings, and the foundation of the Cause of God, for the listeners would grasp the meaning and understand, whereas if it were not done in this way, they would not listen at all.  ABU0353

The friends of God must associate with the spirit of friendship with other souls and show to them infinite love and tenderness. This kind of association will display an effect in the hearts of many people. Then they will listen to the words. Whenever they see that a capability is created, they may speak with wisdom and deference and utter the words with dignity and kindness. At first they must make the effort to remove all the barriers of reserve and indifference. For example, each one of the believers may select at the very least one soul in a year. In the beginning he must show him the beauty of friendship and hospitality in a practical way - so that he may not shun his association, then little by little he may teach him the truth.  AB04213

The friends must not argue with people or clergy, but rather converse with utmost consideration, kindness and good expression, and not allow it to lead to dispute and argument, for conversation with dispute and argument has no effect but rather brings hatred and enmity. Therefore they must speak with perfect kindness, selflessness, humility and submissiveness, and never utter a harsh word. They should say that we have no dispute or argument with any group and we do not look with contempt, but rather consider ourselves and them servants of Truth - we have one burden and count ourselves as fruits of one branch. The only difference is that some investigate truth while others remain silent and occupied with themselves and their own interests.  AB00733

Likewise some teachers must be sent to various parts and in every direction, for the sake of diffusing the fragrances of God, so that they may direct the seekers to the Divine Path; even the coming and going of the friends is beneficial. For instance, the friends who live in the smaller cities often do not receive any news, and then only at random. Now if certain souls arise to travel through these places, give the Glad-tidings of God, stay in every place a night or two, deliver the news of the Holy Land and other countries and cities of the East and West, and associate with them with the utmost love, enthusiasm and happiness, this will be conducive to attraction and enkindlement, the people will be trained in spiritual matters and obtain exhilaration and life.  AB01773

To every city he goes he should associate with the eminent people and with the poor. He should neither be a rigid saint nor an irreligious liberal, until all those who associate with him will see that this person is a spiritual, religious, heavenly, perfect, knowledgeable and excellent learned man. He should associate with every sect and should keep abreast and harmonise them until he has an influence amongst them and becomes established and rooted within them. He should be like the breeze of the Holy Spirit wafting over their dead bodies. He should open his eyes and investigate about the souls and see what ideas they have and into which directions they are heading and unto what dogmas they are clinging - then he talks, that they will approach nearer and nearer and accept the Faith  ABU0992

A verse was revealed in the Tablet to Nabil of Qa'in - if one attains to the sweetness of that verse, he will understand the meaning of assistance: "Say: Utterance is a substance that seeketh penetration and moderation. As to penetration, it is conditional upon refinement, which in turn is dependent upon hearts that are detached and pure. As to moderation, this is commingled with wisdom as recorded in the Tablets." O My Name! Utterance seeketh penetration, for if it penetrateth not it will not be effective, and its penetration dependeth upon pure breaths and detached hearts. Likewise, it seeketh moderation, for without moderation the hearer will not bear it and will at first turn away. And moderation is the combining of utterance with the wisdom that hath been revealed in the Books and Tablets.   BH00587

Indeed a teacher is needed, and the qualifications of teachers that were heard from the Tongue of Grandeur have been mentioned separately in responses to letters from friends. If one were to fully reveal what is concealed, an uproar would arise, for it outwardly conflicts with what is in the hands of the people of outward forms. Yet if one were to conceal everything, no one would attain eternal salvation. The conduct of the Ancient Beauty Himself in Iraq and other lands serves as a complete guide for all. Most of the divines in Iraq would present themselves before the Countenance of the Goal of the worlds night and day - some questioning, some seeking, some investigating, and some searching for truth. He would say that if we were to conduct ourselves otherwise, the greatest separation would become manifest, in which case no one would draw near to hear the Word of God.  BH04611

O people! Spread not disorder on the earth nor dispute with your fellow men, for this would ill beseem them that occupy, beneath the shadow of their Lord, the station of such as are faithful to the one true God. Whensoever ye encounter a thirsty soul, give him to drink from the cup of everlasting life; and whensoever ye find a hearing ear, recite unto him the verses of God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Compassionate. Unloose your tongues with kindly words and, should ye find the people inclined towards the Sanctuary of God, summon them to the truth; otherwise leave them to their own selves and to that condition which is the reality of the nethermost fire. Beware lest ye cast the pearls of inner meaning before the blind and the barren in heart, inasmuch as they are deprived of beholding the light and are unable to distinguish the worthless pebble from the precious and gleaming pearl.   BH00939

According to the requirements of the place and time, Peter appeared not to recognize them, and then asked: 'Who are you? Where do you come from?' They answered: 'We are the servants of His Holiness the Spirit of God (Christ), and we come from Jerusalem. Then he asked about his Holiness the Spirit: 'Who is He?' They said He is the Promised One of the Bible and the Desired One of all the servants.' Afterward in a spirit of an antagonist, he asked them the universal and particular questions, and at every step contended with them. Often the very nature of the questions gave them a clue to how to answer. In short, one by one he put the doubts and scruples of the people in the form of questions, and they gave convincing answers. Now and then he would accept a number of their explanations, and anon he would wave aside a set of ethers, bringing forth certain counterpropositions, so that the audience might not find out that he was also one of them.   AB00219

Likewise, it is acceptable to practice medicine in a suitable place where it may become a means for spreading the divine fragrances and where the children may also be educated, for physicians, through their practice, enter many places, and the hearts of patients are naturally tender and receptive, and most are supplicating and beseeching. This means is indeed an excellent medium for conveying the Word.  AB12836
 
