
Since the Divine Reality has manifestations of brilliant signs and traces in all worlds and stations, therefore in the world of archetypes and spiritual realities He made human reality the niche and glass for the light of Truth and manifested all names and attributes upon it. And when this universal reality appeared in the realm of existence with all its conditions and perfections, the robe of vicegerency adorned it and became the ornament of its symmetrical figure - most becoming indeed! That which is above has a reflection below.  AB05563

strive thou to capture images of the Concourse on High in the mirror of capability and potential, and to show forth heavenly reflections upon earthly planes. These images are infinite, and these reflections enduring and established. That which is below hath its image in that which is above.  AB07496

But the whole of creation is interrelated like the different parts of the human body which have a complete affinity from the toenail to the hair on the head.  ABU3146

the contingent world - that is, the realm of the senses and the external sphere - in relation to the stations of heart and soul and the world of the heart and spirit, is like the realm of the womb in relation to the world and cosmos.   AB05191

the body of contingent existence, like the human person, is subject to endless illnesses  AB07365

"And as the whole universe is reflected in our spirit, we perceive from this that our spirit (Ruh) is a reflection of the Creative Spirit and thus partakes of the infinity of space and the endlessness of eternity. O my sons and daughters: Our spirit, which neither is conceivable nor can be explained, shares the infinity of space and boundless eternity with its Creator, that means: the human spirit, the weak reflection of the Divine Spirit, the Creative Spirit, has part in the immortality of the Creator: our spirit is immortal."  ABU1069

Whereas He created man outwardly as a mortal frame, inwardly he is the manifestation of the radiant Light; while symbolically microcosm, he is in reality macrocosm. Inwardly, God hath made him the manifestation of the Divine Unity, the repository of His essence, and the most effulgent testimony for the perfections of existence.  AB04119

Thus, hath God, in fairness, made plain His signs in both souls and in the world.   BB00590

In truth, man is the greater world, and the world is but a lesser reflection of him   BH01095

All created things are mirrors of one another, and the image of each is reflected in the other  AB05239

Dost thou deem thyself a small and puny form, When thou foldest within thyself the greater world?  BH00047

Some have described him as the "lesser world," when, in reality, he should be regarded as the "greater world."  BH07594

The body of the world, when thou considerest it in truth, is like unto a human person - that is, a physical frame.   AB02581

In a single leaf of a tree are inscribed and visible volumes of knowledge and wisdom, and the ocean of creation is apparent and surging.   BH02373

man is said to be the greatest sign of God-that is, he is the Book of Creation-for all the mysteries of the universe are found in him.  AB00420

What then was this Word, which at times was mentioned as a seed, at times as a countenance, and at times as a drop - from which drop emerged an ocean, from which countenance emerged faces, and from which seed emerged a world?  BH04706


He likened it to the human body, where all elements and members are interdependent, explaining that the universe operates similarly - all parts connected and mutually dependent.   ABU2400

while other creatures, and indeed the entirety of creation, are the manifestations of God's clear tokens, only the excellent figure of man representeth His most luminous sign and the sum of all Divine perfections. For he is the most great demarcation, the archetype of the greater world, the luminous book, the manifestation of the splendours of the Realms above, the Inscribed Tablet, and the Outspread Roll.  AB00447

As has been said by a Persian poet, the celestial globe is in such a form that the under part is, as it were, a reflection of the upper part. That is to say, whatever exists in heaven is reflected in this world.  ABU1118

The All-Merciful hath conferred upon man the faculty of vision, and endowed him with the power of hearing. Some have described him as the "lesser world," when, in reality, he should be regarded as the "greater world."  BH07594


Man is in truth the preface to the Manifest Book of contingent beings, and a brief summary of the meanings of the Preserved Tablet of this mighty universe, and a concise expression of this unfurled scroll of all ancient and modern times.  AB11818

As preordained by the Fountain-head of Creation, the temple of the world hath been fashioned after the image and likeness of the human body. In fact each mirroreth forth the image of the other, wert thou but to observe with discerning eyes.  AB00446

compare the great frame of the universe to the small frame of man - just as the general and particular organs and parts of man are connected and related to each other, likewise this reality and connection exists in the elements and organs of created things  AB00767

When we ponder over the reality of the microcosm, we discover that in the microcosm, or the little man, there are deposited three realities. Man is endowed with an outward or physical reality. It belongs to the animal kingdom because it has sprung out of the material world.  ABU0055

"The universe, the macrocosm, is captured by our spirit, the microcosm, as in a mirror. We feel, we comprehend, we analyse and construct this mirror-image during a whole human life-time and neither the most prosaic person nor the one with most vision can imagine or conceive that space and time would somewhere or sometime come to an end."  ABU1069

The noblest of all earthly beings is man. In him are realized the animal, the vegetable and the mineral kingdoms, that is, all these degrees are contained in him in such wise that he is endowed with them all. And, being endowed with all these degrees and stations, he is informed of their mysteries and aware of the secrets of their existence.  AB00780

For We have created every soul today like unto this world - just as in the world there are diverse cities and different villages, and likewise trees and fruits and leaves and branches and twigs, and seas and mountains and all that is visible therein, even so within man all these diverse things exist. Thus doth one soul warrant being called a world.  BH00049

"Man is the microcosm; and the infinite universe, the macrocosm. The mysteries of the greater world, or macrocosm, are expressed or revealed in the lesser world, the microcosm. The tree, so to speak, is the greater world, and the seed in its relation to the tree is the lesser world. But the whole of the great tree is potentially latent and hidden in the little seed. When this seed is planted and cultivated, the tree is revealed. Likewise, the greater world, the macrocosm, is latent and miniatured in the lesser world, or microcosm, of man."  ABU0573

O questioner! Man is the greatest index and the mightiest talisman. He is an index in which are found the representations of all that hath been created in earth and heaven. When the spirit is freed from incidental limitations and earthly conditions, it traverseth all stations, and the more it is detached, the swifter, more constant and more truthful is its journey. If it be said that the human temple is, in one station, the kingdom of God, this is the truth in which there is no doubt, for the representation of all things is found and witnessed therein.  BH00135

Liken the world of existence to the temple of man. All the limbs and organs of the human body assist each other, therefore life continues. When, in this wonderful organism, there is a disconnection, life is changed into death and the parts of the body disintegrate. Likewise, among the parts of existence, there is a wonderful connection and interchange of forces, which is the cause of the life of the world and the continuation of these countless phenomena.  AB00362


These are spiritual truths relating to the spiritual world. In like manner, from these spiritual realities infer truths about the material world. For physical things are signs and imprints of spiritual things; every lower thing is an image and pattern of a higher thing. Nay, earthly and heavenly, material and spiritual, accidental and essential, particular and universal, foundation and structure, appearance and reality and the essence of all things, both inward and outward--all of these are connected one with another and are interrelated in such a manner that we find that drops are patterned after seas, and that atoms are structured after suns in proportion to their capacities and potentialities.  AB00023
