Man must be mindful in all conditions.   BH07432


Focus your thoughts on this matter, for this is what is beneficial now. Do not scatter your thoughts. If you scatter your thoughts you will not succeed in any one thing. When water is concentrated in one fountain, the fountain becomes very powerful and gushes forth strongly, but when divided among multiple fountains, none of the fountains gains strength.  AB12128

Think day and night how thou mayest render some service at the Sacred Threshold.  AB09400

Remember thy Lord in thy standing and thy sitting, in thy sleep and thy wakefulness.  BH11004

Remember God, thy Lord, in thy heart and forget Him not, and be not of the heedless ones   BH05299

O God! Awaken us from the deep slumber of negligence! Suffer us to become mindful and aware!  ABU2174

in such wise that at all times thou shalt be occupied with the remembrance of the All-Merciful   BH06107

Then remember Him at all times, for by His remembrance the sleeping servants of God shall be awakened.   BH05918

The Prophets and Holy Men always went into the wilderness to pray. Many of them walked upon Mount Carmel and communed with God.  ABU3486

And the greatest spiritual discipline in this regard is that thy heart not be heedless of God's remembrance for a single moment   BB00580

When you are plowing the ground or sowing the seeds or reaping the harvest let all your thoughts and subconscious thinking be of God.   ABU2111

These sad events which are transpiring in the East are the results of thoughtlessness. Thoughtlessness is the worst calamity of the human race.  ABU1060

When a soul rises in the morning from sleep, before everything else he must commemorate the name of God, in order that he may obtain spirituality and illumination  AB10943

Since one has no encompassing knowledge of the consequences of affairs, therefore one must always take the path of mindfulness and wisdom, and learn lessons from the past for the future.   ABU0912

When you pray you must not think of your aching body, nor of the birds outside the window, nor of the cracks in the wall! When you wish to pray you must first know that you are standing in the presence of the Almighty!   ABU3378

When you are plowing the ground or sowing the seeds or reaping the harvest let all your thoughts and sub-conscious thinking be of God. Your hands and feet will be working but your heart must be attached to the Almighty.   ABU3244

One cannot obtain the full force of the sunlight when it is cast on a flat mirror, but once the sun shineth upon a concave mirror, or on a lens that is convex, all its heat will be concentrated on a single point, and that one point will burn the hottest. Thus is it necessary to focus one's thinking on a single point so that it will become an effective force.  AB00948

When man wishes to accomplish something, he must give himself entirely to that thing. For instance, if one desires to learn art, he must concentrate all his faculties and mind upon it; he cannot do that and something else at the same time. So when a man wishes truly to serve God, he must concentrate all his mind upon this service and think of nothing else whatever.  ABU0785

"Take no rest except in remembrance of God. This is what the Dove of the Spirit counseleth you that haply ye may be guided by the guidance of God, and may conduct yourselves upon the earth in accordance with His will. This is better for you than all that hath been and will be. And take no breath except in remembrance of the Beloved, if ye would be guided by this counsel."  BH01586

The heat of the sun is more intense when it is concentrated in a cubic crystal, for in such a crystal, the heat is condensed. So man, when he gives his attention to one thing only, he will do that thing well. When a ruby is put into a cubic crystal, it will be consumed at once; but if it is put into the fire, it is not affected. This shows the power of concentration.  ABU0785
