The soul is the Sanctuary of God; Reason is His Throne. ABU3609

Man is endowed with superior reasoning power and the faculty of perception.  ABU0016

All that we see around us is the work of mind. It is mind in the herb and in the mineral that acts on the human body, and changes its condition.  ABU3531

for this rational faculty is the greatest power in the world...Why treat with indifference such a divine spark? Why ignore a faculty so beneficial, a sun so powerful?   ABU1902

"there is no doubt the body and the mind act and react, the one on the other, and the mind can greatly aid and modify even the ills that are purely of a physical and outside origin."   ABU2421

The wise define human reason as the ability to discover the unknown, by means of a sequence of major and minor premises of known facts, leading to the discovery of intelligible universal truths.  AB12758

All of man's body is body, all are parts of the body, the hands, the head, the feet, etc., but God has chosen and specified the mind of man, and so the power of intellect in the mind of man has made it to be peculiar.   ABU0506

For instance, the mind itself is the intellectual reality. It cannot be seen or heard or smelt or tasted or touched. This is the intellectual reality and is not perceptible by the senses. If you wish to explain it by the senses, it is impossible.   ABU1881

Reason is a monarch over the body and the five senses. Reason does not belong to the category of the senses. It is a faculty superior to them. Animals have the five senses but they do not have the reasoning or intellectual faculty as fully developed in man.  ABU1093

Man has intelligence; nature has not. Man has volition; nature has none. Man has memory; nature is without it. Man has the reasoning faculty; nature is deprived. Man has the perceptive faculty; nature cannot perceive. It is therefore proved and evident that man is nobler than nature.  ABU0405

The intellectual realities are those which are immaterial, as love, wisdom, spirit, character, knowledge, the divine powers; these are the intellectual realities, these are the hidden communications, these are the divine virtues, these are the human perfections, these are the mysteries of nature.  ABU0780

Infinite sciences have been manifested in the human heart; divine discoveries have been reflected in the mirror of man. Thus, the discovery of the hidden realities is due to human thought; the philosophical sciences are a favour vouchsafed unto man; the wonders of divine arts and crafts are his handiwork.  AB00447

Though in infancy the signs of mind and spirit are present in man, they are not manifested in their perfection but remain incomplete. Only when man attaineth unto maturity do the mind and spirit manifest themselves in their fullest perfection. From the inception of his formation, the mind and spirit existed, but they were concealed and appeared only subsequently.  AB00722

Reason and understanding are gifts from the bestowals of God by which man is distinguished from other animals. Would any person of intelligence consent to extinguish this light with the darkness of intoxication? No, by God! His heart would never be content with that. Rather, he would pursue that which increases reason and understanding, not bewilderment and heedlessness and oblivion.  AB00305

Praise and thanksgiving be unto Providence that out of all the realities in existence He has chosen the reality of man and has honored it with intellect and wisdom, the two most luminous lights in either world. Through the agency of this great endowment, He has in every epoch cast on the mirror of creation new and wonderful configurations. This supreme emblem of God stands first in the order of creation and first in rank, taking precedence over all created things. Witness to it is the Holy Tradition, Before all else, God created the mind. From the dawn of creation, it was made to be revealed in the temple of man.  AB00004

Consider what power has brought us together in this meeting - the East and the West. It is evident that this is not through the material power - It is the Ideal power which brings us to-gether. It is the ideal power which establishes a bond between hearts - it's the Ideal power which makes us kinder to each other. It is the Ideal power that brings nations to-gether. The ideal power that organizes the heterogeneous people into a homogenous whole. It is the ideal power that brings to us the influx of the Spirit. It is the ideal power that explores the mystical regions of science - It is the Ideal power that codifies laws and regulations - it is the Ideal power that sets man a ruler over the domains of Nature  ABU0163
