Miracles are constantly being performed in the material world about us, yet they make but little impression. Every Prophet has His own particular Mission and function. He does not come merely to perform miracles. People do not trouble themselves about the proof of miracles. The function of a physician is not to make a tree talk.  ABU3203

The miracles of Christ were spiritual teachings, not literal.   ABU3618


If healing the lame and crippled is a miracle, it can also be produced by a dose of medicine. This is no great achievement.  ABU2210

Think about it - if today a general were to stand and say "Sun, stand still!" and the sun stood still, would the opposing side dare to continue fighting? All these things have meanings, but it is not that they are beyond divine power. In God's sight, forced belief is not acceptable. Consider - is a forced friendship acceptable to you? If you tell someone "If you don't believe, I will kill you" and they believe, this is not faith. Faith must be through recognition, through insight, through guidance, through the diffusion of divine fragrances, through the dawning of lights. If it is other than this, it will be like the conversion of the Jews of Hamadan and Mashhad.  ABU1683

They say our Lord cured blindness; it was blindness of the soul. ("They have eyes and see not, ears they have and hear not.") He brought on spiritual awakening.   ABU2530

As to the saying that Jesus Christ illumined the eyes of the blind and enabled them to see, is this also possible in the present age? The Master replied: "Anything is possible, but Jesus Christ, quoting the words of Isaiah, has said, 'They have eyes, but do not see; they have ears, but do not hear; they have hearts, but do not understand -- yet I will grant them healing.'" ABU3746

If Christ was the son of God and performed so many miracles even as to quickening the dead, why after 2000 yrs his followers do not even practice these simple Teachings of his?  ABU0843

What miracle could be greater than this - that He raised up His Cause while in the Most Great Prison under chains and moved both East and West. This is just one miracle of Baha'u'llah's miracles.  AB02462

With the same breath of the Holy Spirit that I blew over the ignorant and he became wise; the deaf became hearing, the blind seeing, the mute speaking, the sick became well and the dead received a new life   ABU1618

As to St. John 9:6. He said this in regard to the miracle of the blind man, speaking especially of the dust and spittle: "The spittle coming from was the meaning. The dust was the expression that He used in accordance with their understanding."   ABU0898

As for the miracles that occurred in the wars of the Israelites with the unbelievers mentioned in the Holy Book, these have interpretations and meanings; nevertheless, the Baha'is do not consider the miracles of the Prophets impossible or absurd.  AB00733

The Jewish scholars do not acknowledge the miracles of Christ, and likewise the Christian scholars do not acknowledge the miracles of the Prophet [Muhammad], and similarly the European philosophers and natural historians deny the miracles of Moses, and each raise various objections, especially the European philosophers who have published many works on this subject. Therefore, either all must be taken literally and decisive proof established for their occurrence and manifestation, or all must be interpreted allegorically. AB00503

It is related that one day His Holiness the Prince of Believers (Ali), peace be upon him, was on the edge of a roof when a stranger submitted: "O Ali, are you confident in God's protection, preservation and safeguarding?" He replied: "How could I not be, when I am the first believer in God?" The man submitted: "Then rely on God's protection and throw yourself from the edge of the roof." He responded: "The higher must test the lower, not anyone testing anyone else anywhere. The Master has the right to test the servant, but the servant has no right to test the Master." This is why when seven tribes from among the Arab tribes came before His Holiness the Messenger (may my spirit be sacrificed for him), and each demanded a miracle as a test - one saying "until you cause a spring to gush forth from the earth for us," another uttering "or you bring down a book from heaven," another saying "or you have a house of gold," another uttering "or you ascend into heaven" - since their purpose was to test, the answer to all was "Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I anything but a human messenger?" And truly if you consult your heart you will see that the Word has been derived, the letters have spoken, the points have been dispersed, the Reality has appeared, the verses have been uttered, and the lights of revelation have radiated. What follows light except darkness? AB03291

In the Quran it is mentioned that seven tribes came before the Secret of Being and Essence of Purpose, His Holiness Muhammad, peace be upon Him. Each made his faith contingent upon a miracle. One said: "Bring down a book from heaven." Another said: "Cast down a fragment of heaven to earth." Another said: "Make a spring to flow." Another said: "Ascend to heaven." Another said: "Show us the Lord with His hosts." Another said: "Produce a treasure." Another said: "Bring forth the lofty paradise." In reply to all of these He declares: "Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I aught but a mortal messenger?" AB08407

"Is the day of miracles over, or will other miracles occur in the future?" "You mean, I take it, things which we believe at present to be contrary to natural law?" I replied in the affirmative. "To that question, I shall only reply, I believe that everything is possible with God at any time."   ABU0526

Miracles have frequently obscured the Teachings which the Divine Messenger has brought. The phenomenal miracles are unimportant, and prove nothing to anybody but the witnesses thereof, and even they will very often explain them away! Therefore miracles have no value in the teaching of religion.   ABU3228

There is nothing as extraordinary or supernatural as my coming here to see you. A person in prison for life -- forty years -- to come to San Francisco and meet the friends. How impossible it seems! God dethroned two sovereigns -- two kings he dethroned -- so that I could come here. How difficult it seems! This is a miracle. This is the power of God.   ABU2122

The second proof is the miracles of the Prophets. For instance the miracles which were performed by Moses. It is recorded in oriental history that His Holiness Abraham was thrown on a burning pile, but he was protected and was unhurt, and that Moses divided the sea into two, changed the rod into a serpent, and caused the descent of manna from heaven; under the smiting of his rod water gushed forth from the rock. This kind of proof is always for the believer. A Buddhist will not be convinced by these proofs, they are convincing as far as the orthodox Jews are concerned because they believe in Moses. On the other hand the miracles which are attributed to Jesus Christ are only proofs for the Christians. The Jews refute them as a whole. No one lives today who has seen these miracles performed by Christ, so that they may bear testimony to them. Likewise they attribute many miracles to Mohamed - those miracles are only accepted by the Mohammedans and not by the Jews and the Christians. This is to show you that these two proofs are not final. ABU0046

The Manifestations of God are the sources of wondrous deeds and miraculous signs. For them, all difficult or impossible matters become possible and permissible. They perform extraordinary feats through an extraordinary power, and they influence the natural world through a power that transcends nature itself. From each of them, marvelous things have appeared. However, the sacred scriptures employ a special terminology, and in the sight of God's Manifestations these wonders and miracles hold no importance - so much so that they do not even wish them to be mentioned. For even if these miracles were considered the greatest of proofs, they would serve as clear evidence only for those present at their occurrence, not for those who were absent.... Our meaning is not that the Manifestations of God are unable to perform miracles, for this indeed lies within their power.  But that which is of import and consequence in their eyes is inner sight, spiritual hearing and eternal life.  Thus, wherever it is recorded in the sacred scriptures that such a one was blind and was made to see, the meaning is that he was inwardly blind and gained spiritual insight, or that he was ignorant and found knowledge, or was heedless and became aware, or was earthly and became heavenly.  AB00381

Christ healed by the power of his word, because the word of the Messiah was the Holy Spirit purified from all else. Jesus said: "Arise, take up thy bed and walk." He did not use prayers or mental suggestion. He used spiritual authority in the command which was the power of the Holy Spirit manifest in him. Therefore his word was obeyed because it was creative.  ABU2579

As the miracles will not be proofs of the Blessed Perfection in the centuries to come, we have not mentioned them. Miracles are only proofs for those who witness them, and not for those to come. For the idolaters recorded miracles on the part of their Gods in the Books. If the people who come after this century want to prove the glory of the Blessed Perfection by His miracles no one will accept them, as the idolaters have also miracles written of their gods.  ABU0334

It is recorded in one of the Books of the Mussulman that one day Jesus Christ was seen fleeing to the mountains, and some one asked Him why He was fleeing away. He said, "I am running away from a foolish man." He was asked, "Are you not Christ? Why do you not bestow upon him the great Spirit?" Jesus answered, "God has given Me a Spirit, the power of which will open the eyes of the blind and cause the deaf to hear, but it has no effect upon the mind of a foolish person."  ABU0785

Verily I was - God's mercy be upon him - and claimed not the decree which I was given, and therefore no supernatural occurrences appeared from him, for the matter was obscure to thee. And the absence of supernatural occurrences from His servant was due to the Imam's decree, as people know not its mystery. And verily I, were God to will it, would manifest from me without knowledge thereof, as a grace from Him, as I wrote in two books sent to two scholars the decree before its occurrence by eighty-seven days.   BB00154

I will not mention the miracles of Baha'u'llah, for the hearer might say that these are merely traditions which may or may not be true.  Such, too, is the case with the Gospel, where the accounts of the miracles of Christ come down to us from the Apostles and not from other observers, and are denied by the Jews.  Were I nonetheless to mention the supernatural feats of Baha'u'llah, they are numerous and unequivocally acknowledged in the East, even by some of the non-believers.  But these accounts cannot be a decisive proof and testimony for all, since the hearer might say that they are not factually true, as the followers of other denominations also recount miracles from their leaders.  For instance, Hindus recount certain miracles of Brahma.  How can we know that those are false and that these are true?  If these are reported accounts, so too are those; if these are widely attested, then the same holds true of those.  Thus such accounts do not constitute a sufficient proof.  Of course, a miracle may be a proof for the eyewitness, but even then he might not be sure whether what he beheld was a true miracle or mere sorcery.  Indeed, extraordinary feats have also been attributed to certain magicians. In brief, our meaning is that many marvellous things appeared from Baha'u'llah, but we do not recount them, for not only do they not constitute a proof and testimony for all mankind, but they are not even a decisive proof for those who witnessed them and who may ascribe them to magic. AB00030

Furthermore, the Arab tribes collectively hastened to the presence of the Prophet, and each tribe sought a test and requested a miracle and sign. One opened his tongue saying "Until thou bring God and the angels before us." Another said "Or thou ascend to heaven." Another made the excuse "Or thou have a garden of date palms and grapes, and cause rivers to gush forth in their midst." Another declared "Until thou cause a spring to gush forth from the earth." And likewise others, each seeking to test that Lord of all worlds. In answer to all He said: "Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I aught but a mortal messenger?" Similarly in the clear text of the Quran He says: "If I had knowledge of the unseen, I should have secured abundance for myself, and I know not what shall befall me or you tomorrow." These verses were revealed in response to those souls who sought to test that Light of Truth, and this was the height of audacity. Thus did they receive a severe reply, and the purpose of none was achieved, and all arose in vehement denial. And if proof is intended, proof must be universal, not particular, else matters would degenerate into children's games and the gathering of mysteries would become a magician's arena. For if every soul had a whim, then the Guide of nations would have to become, among all peoples, the plaything of every mindless and uncomprehending one. And surely you would not consent to this.  AB00766

Furthermore, certain ones should not utterly deny the manifestation of that which hath been attributed to the Prophets, for the understanding of servants cannot serve as the criterion. If one observeth with the eye of insight, all that is visible on earth - before its manifestation - was and is and shall ever be beyond the comprehension of all people, both high and low. Observe the sun in the sky, how in its present visible form it giveth joy and light to all on earth from east to west and all other directions. Surely, before witnessing it, the intellect would not have accepted the description and affirmation of such a thing.   BH00394
