God hath manifested Me for the reformation of the world.   BH07195

"He hath come to reform the world and refine the nations."  BH10711

And from among humanity He sent forth certain souls who were sanctified from the conditions, veils, allusions and indications of creation, dispatching them with the royal seal of "I am the Truth" and sending them to guide mankind. And all these holy souls who were the manifestations of divine knowledge and dawning-places of heavenly wisdom were afflicted with countless trials. And this holy, blessed, and exalted chain ended with the Seal of the Prophets and King of the Chosen Ones, through whom the gate of heaven was opened and the Nightingale of Eternity sang upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree that which the Tongue of Grandeur had spoken before the existence of all things  BH01809

We have come to educate the servants and improve the lands.   BH06842

We have accepted tribulations for the salvation of the world   BH09477

He, verily, is the Beloved Who hath come to give life to the worlds  BH11282

He hath come for the reformation of the world and the life of nations.   BH06562

He hath come for the reformation of the world, but the people are unaware.  BH04513

He hath come for the life of the world and the reformation of the nations   BH02619

and whom He sent with truth to the people to guide them to His straight path   BH05245

We shall instruct them to teach the Word of God and to quicken the souls of men.  BBU0009

The Countenance of the Desired One hath appeared for the reformation of the world   BH06070

We came for the guidance of the servants and to draw them nigh unto God, the One, the All-Informed.   BH09663

He hath desired naught for Himself, but rather desired to draw all nigh unto the praiseworthy station   BH08812

The appearance of the Manifestations is to bring happiness; that all may reach this great aim of life.   ABU3062

and hath had and hath no purpose except the reformation of the world and the edification of its peoples   BH04957

which speaketh the truth and summoneth mankind unto a station illumined with the lights of the countenance   BH08976

He hath come for the life of the world.  BH00849

He has come with the truth to adorn the world with mercy and tranquility  BH10696

the Establisher of Universal Civilization, the Unifier of religions, the standard-bearer of universal Peace  ABU1402

The Blessed Perfection hath appeared for the sole purpose of the unification and solidarity of the people of the world.   AB04289

We came to give life to the world and revealed that which unlocks the treasures  BH07730

He hath appeared for the reformation of the world, and counseleth all with that which will manifest man's station in creation.   BH01793

The Glory (Baha) hath come unto you to purify you from vain desire and draw you nigh unto God, the Lord of the first and the last.  BH11836

The purpose of the appearance of the Promised Beauty was that human souls be educated and become manifestations of divine perfections.  AB01911

The Holy Manifestations of God came to deliver souls from the darkness of nature, for without a teacher humanity cannot become learned  ABU2246

Each of these great teachers had to meet a problem peculiar to himself-that of guiding and satisfying his contemporaries and associates.  ABU1396

He hath had no purpose except to quench the fire of hatred and animosity which blazeth in the hearts of the peoples.   BH08533

this Wronged One hath desired naught save the exaltation of the Word and the advancement of existence.   BH05022

He hath sent forth the Messengers as bearers of glad-tidings and warners, that they might give the people tidings of a holy and resplendent Paradise   BH06531

The purpose of the appearance of the Manifestations of God is the training of the people. That is the only result of Their mission, the real outcome.  ABU1897

He hath come for the reformation of the world  BH06174

they occupy themselves with the education of mankind. They have, as a result, to bear the enmity, persecution and calumny of the people.   ABU1430

I am a herald of the Kingdom and a banner of peace and tranquility...and become the cause of spreading divine love and the unity and oneness of the human world  AB03721

He chose pure essences and holy souls and sent them from the higher realm to the kingdom of creation, that they might guide all and lead them to the straight path  BH02657

All the philosophers have come with the intention of teaching man to acquire virtues. All the prophets who have come have come to endow man with acquired virtues   ABU1950

He, verily, is the One Who speaketh the truth and commandeth the people to that which profiteth them in this world and the next  BH05714

Now Baha'u'llah has come and renewed that original foundation. He has again manifested those divine teachings of the time of Christ and those virtues of the human world.  ABU1159

Christ came in order that he may educate the world of humanity, illumine the realm of morality. He sacrificed his life for the realization of this fact. This is reality.  ABU2350

I testify that Thou hast desired for them naught save that which draweth them nigh unto Thee and acquainteth them with what shall profit them in every world of Thy worlds.   BH01724

Thus doth command thee the Sovereign of creation through Whom the servants were troubled and the lands were shaken, and the hearts of them that are detached were gladdened.   BH04646

For this all the Divine Messengers became manifest-to teach the Heavenly Wisdom. This Heavenly Wisdom is eternal peace, universal reconciliation, and unending rest for man.   ABU1221

These holy Manifestations of God establish eternal institutions for humanity in all worlds, even in this dusty realm, but alas that human souls do not appreciate their worth  ABU1670

"How could they (the Manifestations) teach and guide others in the way if they themselves did not undergo every species of suffering to which other human beings are subjected?"  ABU3519

All the Prophets were sent for the purpose of education. In brief, education is the cause of life, education is the cause of salvation, education is the cause of exalted stations.  ABU1031

He hath not uttered a word except that word hath been as the greatest elixir for mankind, and its purpose hath been the salvation of humanity and their comfort, glory and exaltation.  BH04312

God made manifest the true Shepherd to gather together all the sheep, and that kind Shepherd was Baha'u'llah who united the scattered flocks and brought harmony among diverse parties  ABU2153

In My actions I desired naught save to draw people nigh unto God, the Peerless, the All-Knowing. We wished for them naught save what would profit them in this world and the next.   BH08459

"We wish to make you truly human. You were in darkness, we wished you to become illumined. You were dead, we wished you to become alive. You were earthly, we wished you to become heavenly."  ABU1313

The holy, divine Manifestations have been sent and have undergone manifold sufferings, persecutions and trials in order that the world of humanity might be freed from the captivity of nature.  ABU0599

The Prophets of God are the first Educators. They bestow universal education upon man and cause him to rise from the lowest levels of savagery to the highest pinnacles of spiritual development.  ABU0293

But day and night he was engaged in the resuscitation of the people of the world with the Breathes of the Holy Spirit. in this manner he worked ceaselessly. In this way he instructed every one.   ABU0891

at every moment He guides all who are in the world to the most exalted horizon... there has been no purpose except the guidance of creation and no aim except the manifestation of the Cause of Truth   BH04866

For this is the coming of the Messengers of God: that man may be educated, that his latent perfections may be brought forth and made manifest, that his spiritual and heavenly estate may be realised.  ABU0927

The Prophets and chosen ones have not appeared so that people will worship them and shower them with praise and laudation. They have sustained all their trials so that they may guide and educate people.  ABU3133

"All the Prophets and Messengers were sent by the Lord of the worlds so that, through the endeavors of those holy souls, the suns of spiritual virtues might shine forth from the horizons of human temples."  BH05969

He has sent forth the Messengers and made them the lamps of His Cause among His servants and the emblems of His remembrance in His kingdom. Whoso turns unto them hath turned unto God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH04465

The appearance of the holy manifestations is for the purpose of causing the heavenly table to descend. This table means the divine virtues and characteristics, and is the means of strengthening the spirit and life.  ABU1182

All the prophets of God have come for the purpose of bestowing upon men the heavenly bounties, in order that through the breaths of the Holy Spirit man might be resuscitated and thus become the noblest of creatures.   ABU1020

God sent His Prophets into the world to teach and enlighten man, to explain to him the mystery of the Power of the Holy Spirit, to enable him to reflect the light, and so in his turn, to be the source of guidance to others.  ABU0706

The prophets of God have been sent to educate humanity. Christ appeared that mankind might be so trained that in human hearts the image and likeness of God might become manifest, and the utmost of human perfection be attained.   ABU0751

The holy divine Manifestations have come to teach men how to develop their will-powers, so that the souls may be united together and put in practice those principles which will be conducive to the prosperity of the world of humanity.  ABU0303

He created the servants with perfect power, sent Messengers, revealed Books, that all might find the path of truth and sincerity, love and faithfulness, and live in this world by these fruits which are in truth the fruits of the soul.   BH00738

The prophets of God endured all hardships, all ordeals, and all difficulties, sacrificed self and forfeited their lives, in order that man might rescue himself from the darkness of such defects and reach the highest plane of attainment.  ABU0214

The divine Prophets are the true physicians and the Holy Manifestations of God are the divine healers. They treat the world of being. If the world of being is weak, they give it strength. If it is withered, they make it fresh and verdant.   ABU2162

The fields and flowers of the Spiritual Realm are pointed out to us by the Manifestations who walk amid their glories. It remains for the soul of man to follow them in these paths of eternal life, through the exercise of its own human will.  ABU0744

The Holy Divine Manifestations have appeared in this world to instruct mankind in the school of morality and to readjust their ethical relations. For without faith and sanctification the moral fiber of the children of men will not be improved.   ABU1084

Two purposes underlay the divine appearance of the Messengers: first, to deliver mankind from the darkness of ignorance and guide them to the light of true understanding; second, their well-being and the knowledge of the ways leading thereunto.   BH00779

And besides security and inherent purpose, one who has no intention to educate and advance humankind and does not sacrifice their life in God's path - how can such a one raise a nation from the depths of abasement to the heights of glory and happiness?   ABU0707

The holy, divine Manifestations give a new spirit and a new mind to man, are the cause of great progress; they illumine the world  ABU0010

And in another station We interpret it as the Prophethood of the Beloved, meaning that God addressed him as Prophet that he might inform the people of that which would guide them to the path of right guidance and prevent them from tyranny and corruption.  AB00015

Concerning the Messengers, who are the proofs of God and the lamps of divine commandments, He has said: The Messenger's duty is but to convey the Message. Consider the Prophets: each one carried out that which they were commanded with utmost joy and fragrance.  BH03021

Therefore God sends Divine Messengers and reveals holy doctrines and causes divine teachings to be spread abroad, that the spirit of man may be educated, to the end that by Divine inspiration the grace of God may be made to appear in the essential nature of man.  ABU0524

The prophets are sent to educate this innate quality in humanity. They are like gardeners who sow the grain which afterward springs up in a thousand forms of advancement. The prophets are therefore the first educators of the world, the head masters of the world.   ABU1016

The purpose of the divine Manifestations has been the education of holy souls. Their only motive has been the education of blessed souls and sanctified beings who are the foundation of divine education and promoters of the most great guidance and the supreme favor.  ABU1989

He it is Who sent forth the Messengers to exalt His Word, to manifest His commandments, to establish His laws, and revealed unto them the Books for the guidance of His servants and creation, until it culminated in the Book that distinguished between truth and falsehood   BH01247

He hath sent forth the Messengers out of love for His servants and creation, and as a bounty and favor unto them, that He might draw them nigh unto Him and guide them to the court of His glory and acquaint them with that which profiteth them in every world of His worlds.  BH01583

Baha'u'llah came for this purpose. He has made the three religions one. He has uplifted the standard of the oneness of faith and the honour of humanity in the centre of the world. Today we must gather round it, and try with heart and soul to bring about the union of mankind.  AB01160

Through the Divine Gardener, under the shadow of God's mercy, certain souls are trained and educated. He changes unfruitful trees into fruitful ones; dried trees into fresh trees; and under his direction every kind of useful tree is planted, while many and fragrant flowers grow.  ABU1555

The prophets and the messengers have come in order to guide mankind to the straight path of the True One. Their aim has been no other than the education of the people, so that at the time of death they may depart to the Supreme Friend, with perfect sanctification, purification, and severance.  ABU0185

They come to educate and illuminate mankind, to bestow spiritual susceptibilities, to quicken inner perceptions and thereby adorn the reality of man -- the human temple -- with divine graces. Through Them man may become the point of the emanations of God and the recipient of heavenly bounties.  ABU0109

The mission of the Prophets, the revelation of the Holy Books, the manifestation of the heavenly Teachers and the purpose of divine philosophy all center in the training of the human realities so that they may become clear and pure as mirrors and reflect the light and love of the Sun of Reality.  ABU0262

All the divine messengers have come to this earth as specialists of the law of love. They came to teach a divine love to the children of men; they came to minister a divine healing between the nations; they came to cement in one the hearts of men and to bring humanity into a state of unity and concord.   ABU0036

The messengers of God have not come with the sword of war and division but with the olive branch of peace and union. Their mission is to bind and not to break, to heal and not to wound, to educate mankind and not to add to their ignorance, to pull them out of darkness and illumine them with the light of Knowledge.   ABU1398

Through Their advent the world of existence is renewed, a new cycle is inaugurated, a new religion is revealed, souls are quickened to a new life, and East and West are flooded with light. These Souls are the universal Manifestations of God and have been sent forth to the entire world and the generality of mankind.  AB06566

Did not Christ have to live a pure, perfect earthly life as an eternally shining example to his deluded contemporaries; did not He, the great Master, have to refresh and teach again the Revelation, the guidance of God, and imbue with the laws and ordinances of the All-Highest a generation gone astray, blind and deaf?  ABU1479

The divine Manifestations are sent and manifested to train the souls of men in such wise that the divine qualities may overcome and the heavenly light shine universally--that the virtues of humanity may be distinguished from their vises through the confirmation of the Spirit, and their spiritual qualities become manifest.  ABU0691

All the Messengers of God have been sent for the one purpose of educating the souls of men so that they may progress from their undeveloped condition to the attainment of that state where it is known and understood that "Blessed is the One who is the Best Creator." This is the mystery of the Messengers-the original divine proof.  ABU0964

This is why the divine messengers come to the rescue -- to care for the reality, that man's thoughts may unfold and his aims become realized, that he many inherit a new field of progress, for the spiritual side should be cared for as much as the corporeal; the help that comes is through the resuscitating breath of the Holy Spirit.  ABU1586

The True One, exalted be His glory, created the world and its peoples through His Most Exalted Word. Thereafter He sent forth the Prophets, the Chosen Ones and the Messengers for the sole purpose of education, that they might adorn all with the attributes of the All-Merciful and enable them to attain the highest station of human existence.  BH07032

Therefore, the Lord God, out of pure grace and bounty, sent forth the Messengers and revealed the Books, so that through divine education the human world might be saved from nature's corruption and the darkness of ignorance, and attain spiritual perfections, conscientious sensibilities, and spiritual virtues, becoming the source of divine inspirations.  AB00269

We say that the purpose of the appearance of the Kingdom is the education of souls, the advancement of the human world, the manifestation of the love of God, the fellowship and unity of all mankind, the appearance of divine perfections, and the realization of the exalted nature of humanity. This is the purpose and result of the appearance of the Kingdom.   AB00304

And I bear witness that Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, is His servant whom He selected from the midst of the eternity of action for His station of authority, chose him from the heights of grace for His station of love, and selected him as the sign of His Self for His station of knowledge, unique without peer or likeness in the worlds of creation.   BB00195

Thou didst, through the power of Thy might, raise me up among Thy servants, and bid me to show forth Thy sovereignty amidst Thy people. Thereupon I arose before all Thy creatures, strengthened by Thy help and Thy power, and summoned all the multitudes unto Thee, and announced unto all Thy servants Thy favors and Thy gifts, and invited them to turn towards this Ocean   BH01438

It was to manifest this light that Baha'u'llah was born, and came into the world. He taught Eternal Truth to men, and shed the rays of Divine Light in all lands. Therefore Baha'u'llah established a heavenly kingdom in this transient world, lit the celestial lamp, opened the gates of the Kingdom so that the Sun of Truth might shine and heavenly civilization be established.  ABU0419

And when God has found the existent beings in need of spiritual instructions, He has sent unto them teachers and prophets to enable them to reach the highest stages of perfection. It is not possible for anyone to reach the highest perfection unless he is submitted to prophethood, because the strength of man is impotent without being under the strength of God's inspiration.   ABU0272

Every aware soul beareth witness that this Wronged One hath summoned the people to the most exalted horizon and commanded them to that which profiteth them. The purpose is that all hearts might be illumined with the lights of true divine unity and that the saplings of the knowledge of God - exalted be His glory - might be planted by the hands of will in pure and goodly soil.   BH05636

This is the primary purpose and true intention of the raising up of the Prophets and appearance of the holy ones and the dawning of the Sun of Truth in this most mighty cycle of the King of Oneness. And if this glorious purpose and intention of the Lord of Glory does not appear and become manifest in the gathering of the world, the cycle and age will remain fruitless and delayed.  AB00790

The purpose of the one true God in manifesting Himself is to summon all mankind to truthfulness and sincerity, to piety and trustworthiness, to resignation and submissiveness to the Will of God, to forbearance and kindliness, to uprightness and wisdom. His object is to array every man with the mantle of a saintly character, and to adorn him with the ornament of holy and goodly deeds.  BH02224

For a single purpose were the Prophets, each and all, sent down to earth; for this was Christ made manifest, for this did Baha'u'llah raise up the call of the Lord: that the world of man should become the world of God, this nether realm the Kingdom, this darkness light, this satanic wickedness all the virtues of heaven -- and unity, fellowship and love be won for the whole human race.  AB00143

I give sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, the power of speech to the mute and knowledge to the ignorant. I raise the dead, I deliver those who are in darkness and guide them into the realm of Light. I make the poor rich and the weak powerful. I satisfy the hungry ones with the Bread of life and allay the thirst of the thirsty ones with the pure Water of Immortality. This is my work.   ABU3030

These holy Manifestations of God come into the world to dispel the darkness of the animal, or physical, nature of man, to purify him from his imperfections in order that his heavenly and spiritual nature may become quickened, his divine qualities awakened, his perfections visible, his potential powers revealed and all the virtues of the world of humanity latent within him may come to life.  ABU0033

We are commanded to quicken the souls, to train the characters, to illumine the realm of man, to guide all the inhabitants of the earth, to create concord and unity among all men and to lead the world of humanity to the Fountain of the Everlasting Glory. The reformation of one empire is not our aim; nay, rather we invoke from God that all the regions of the world be reformed and cultivated  AB00490

The Primal Point, namely the Herald of the Most Great Beauty, gave the people glad tidings that they might purify and prepare their hearts. Before His mission was complete, the divines of Persia pronounced the sentence of His death and martyred Him. Thereafter the Most Great Luminary rent asunder the veil, and through His Revelation the worlds of Command and Creation were perfected and established.   BH00601

The holy, divine Manifestations are sent into this world as Teachers of mankind. The aim of the Prophets of God who were endued with Celestial power has ever been to deliver the people from the slavery of bestial passions and illumine them with the light of God; in other words: to deliver them from the animal Kingdom and cause them to attain to the height of the perfection of the Kingdom of humanity.   ABU0349

Consider how the Prophets Who have been sent, the great souls who have appeared and the sages who have arisen in the world have exhorted mankind to unity and love. This has been the essence of their mission and teaching. This has been the goal of their guidance and message. The Prophets, saints, seers and philosophers have sacrificed their lives in order to establish these principles and teachings amongst men.   ABU0270

Know ye that the Exalted One hath in truth sent forth the Messengers to bid men to righteousness and piety, to forbid them from transgression and wickedness, and to give them glad tidings of the meeting with God on the Day when light shall shine forth from a seat of transcendent glory. Through them hath God made known the paths of guidance and error, and hath clarified by the tongue of His Messengers all that He hath willed for them  BH00134

The purpose of bearing these calamities and trials, and enduring all manner of pain and tribulation, was the education of human souls and their acquiring divine characteristics, and the progress of humanity in the sublime degrees of the most great gifts - so that this lifeless body of contingent beings might be quickened by the life-giving breaths of the All-Merciful, and the brilliant lights of divine perfections might dispel the darkness of human limitations  AB00860

The purpose of this Most Great Revelation and this Mighty Announcement, which all divine Books and Scriptures have extolled, has been to forbid conflict, strife, and the shedding of blood. Our intention is that through the living waters that flow from the Most Exalted Pen by night and by day, We might cleanse the hearts of the peoples of the world from rancor and hatred, that perchance through the power of the Manifest Sovereign this grievous affliction might be lifted.  BH00126

When Christ appeared, certain blessed souls followed His example. They were with their Master, ever watching and observing His conduct, movements and thoughts. They witnessed the persecutions which were heaped upon Him and were informed of all the events appertaining to that marvelous life -- recipients of His kindness and favors. After the ascension of Christ they hastened to various regions of the world, scattering broadcast the teachings and instructions which He had given them.  ABU0040

Thou art He, O my God, Who hath raised me up at Thy behest, and bidden me to occupy Thy seat, and to summon all men to the court of Thy mercy. It is Thou Who hast commanded me to tell out the things Thou didst destine for them in the Tablet of Thy decree and didst inscribe with the pen of Thy Revelation, and Who hast enjoined on me the duty of kindling the fire of Thy love in the hearts of Thy servants, and of drawing all the peoples of the earth nearer to the habitation of Thy throne.  BH01386

In the Orient there were great differences among races and peoples. They hated each other, and there was no association among them. Various and divergent sects were hostile, irreconcilable. The different races were in constant war and conflict. About sixty years ago Baha'u'llah appeared upon the eastern horizon. He caused love and unity to become manifest among these antagonistic peoples. He united them with the bond of love; their former hatred and animosity passed away; love and unity reigned instead.  ABU0399

God has sent forth the Prophets for the purpose of quickening the soul of man into higher and divine recognitions. He has revealed the heavenly Books for this great purpose. For this the breaths of the Holy Spirit have been wafted through the gardens of human hearts, the doors of the divine Kingdom opened to mankind and the invisible inspirations sent forth from on high. The mission of the Prophets of God has been to train the souls of humanity and free them from the thralldom of natural instincts and physical tendencies.   ABU0104

Do you know what My purpose is in coming to this world and revealing My Cause among the peoples? Let Me tell you that you may know: I have come so that in this world full of corruption, where the door of tranquility has been utterly shut to all beings through the oppression of the oppressors and the treachery of the treacherous, I may, by God's might and power, establish such justice, protection, trustworthiness and religion throughout all regions--manifest and resplendent--that if one of those maidens secluded behind veils, whose radiant beauty would count the sun itself as but a mote, and who in all aspects of grace and beauty would have no peer or likeness, were to emerge from behind the veil adorned with the most precious jewels and ornaments beyond the reckoning of the wise, and travel alone, unaccompanied and unhindered, from the East of creation to the West of invention, wandering through every land and journeying through every clime, such would be the trustworthiness, religiousness, justice, and fairness, and such the absence of treachery, baseness, tyranny and inequity, that no hand of aggression or greed would stretch forth toward the hem of her wealth, nor would any lustful or iniquitous eye turn to gaze upon her sanctified beauty, until she returns to her dwelling and homeland with an unsullied heart and a radiant countenance.... By God's power, I shall transform the world in this way and shall open this most great door unto the face of all peoples. BHU0001

I have come to this world to extract essences. If there exists an atom of essence in a stone behind the seven seas, I will not cease until I have extracted that essence from it.  BHU0001


