
Trust in God and engage in your work and practice economy; the confirmations of God shall descend and you will be enabled to pay off your debts. AB07534

In truth, you manage with the utmost frugality.  AB11411

Let them conduct their business with moderation.  AB06680

In whatever country you go, speak with moderation.   AB04320

Virtue and excellence consist in true faith in God, not in having a small or a large appetite for food, or in similar matters.  ABU1728


The people of God are like the birds, who satisfy themselves with a few crumbs   ABU2187

Why should man undergo so much trouble and hardship merely for the purpose of eating?  ABU3003

"When I was young I often had a brick or a piece of rock as my pillow, and I slept soundly."   ABU2420

"The golden rule as to food is, do not take too much or too little. Moderation is necessary."  ABU1885

In all matters moderation is desirable. If a thing is carried to excess, it will prove a source of evil.  ABU2063

man hath perversely continued to serve his lustful appetites, and he would not content himself with simple foods  AB00162

He was one of the most economical men of this age and lived in the most rigorous frugality and extreme simplicity.   ABU0339

"When the people invite me alone to their houses" he said "I ask them to prepare only one dish. Simplicity in food is better."  ABU1452

In all things moderation is praiseworthy and beloved. Excessive civilization has been and continues to be a cause of destruction.  BH03974

seek ye the Middle Way which is the remembrance of Me in your afflictions and reflection over that which may befall you in future.  BH00001

Spiritual education causes protection of existence and moderation in affairs. It is possible to educate children to have moderation in all things   ABU0985

The Arab wedding in the desert is very simple. The wedding consists of the groom standing on a stone and the bride standing on a stone before him   ABU3005

This is a plain meal, uniform and the same to all. Simplicity and plainness are good, not only in food, but even in dress, in heart, in temperament.  ABU0907

He must not make himself the slave of any habit. He must eat a piece of stale bread with the same relish and enjoyment as the most sumptuous dinner.   ABU2408

The friends of God must hold fast unto the cord of moderation and, with the utmost kindliness, compassion and love, summon the people to the straight path of God.  BH11217

In all matters moderation must be observed and deeds must manifest according to the requirements of wisdom, in the same manner as was witnessed here and practiced in Iraq.  BH04622

This is a uniform (or plain) table - the same kind of food served to all. Uniformity and simplicity are good not only in food, but even in dress, in heart and in temperament.   ABU0558

Let them beware lest the love they bear God, a love that glows so brightly in their hearts, cause them to transgress the bounds of moderation, and to overstep the limits We have set for them.  BHU0002

One must eat in moderation. Man is not created for food. He must not indulge in eating too much. Over-eating is the cause of many diseases. Rise from the table always before your are satisfied.  ABU2552

There is only one way of freedom and that is by shutting one's eyes and heart to all these things which distract the mind. The Arab of the desert teaches us a great lesson in the simple life.  ABU1920

Man must walk in the path of contentment and be satisfied with few things. This will insure his happiness, give him the power of endurance and make him independent of all unnecessary appendages of this mundane life.   ABU1189

"Everything must be done moderately. Excess is not desirable. Do not go to extremes. Even in thinking do not go to extremes but be moderate. If there is too much thinking you will be unable to control your thoughts."   ABU0326

There lived in Esphahan a merchant who was very rich but practiced parsimony to the utmost degree. Because he had many boys and girls, every evening before going home he would buy so many loaves of bread and in the morning he gave to each one loaf and one cent. This was their ration till the next 24 hours. Another merchant who displayed the opposite quality and prepared every means of comfort and enjoyment for the members of his family heard about the stinginess of his neighbor and upbraided him severely. 'Why!' he was answered 'I have six children and every day they receive six cents. With this sum they can buy two pots of Abgousht from the bazaar and eat its broth by day and its meat by night. What else do they want?' ABU1676

But in sleep and food and such things, humans are compelled since these are requirements of life, and moderation in them assists and supports the acquisition of spiritual perfections and attainment of eternal stations.  ABU0886

God sayeth in the Quran: Make not thy hand tied to thy neck, nor stretch it forth to its utmost reach and He saith: But seek between these two an intermediate way. You too must follow this course and act with moderation.  AB11157

Never be a spendthrift. Do not be extravagant in thy expenses. An extravagant person comes always to a sad end and feels the pinch of want and misery. Ever expend less than your income. Do not borrow money for unnecessary things.   ABU1996

Do not mortify the flesh. Care for the body as the vehicle of the soul and the spirit within; but at the same time do not pamper it. Cultivate your finer nature through your senses and your emotions, taking care meanwhile that they do not become your masters.  ABU0361

If a person is content with a morsel of bread and deals with justice and fairness according to his capacity, he is the master of all worlds and the most praiseworthy of men - noble though his purse be empty, the master of the free though his garment be old and worn.   AB00817

some games are innocent, and if pursued for pastime there is no harm. But there is danger that pastime may degenerate into waste of time. Waste of time is not acceptable in the Cause of God. But recreation which may improve the bodily powers, as exercise, is desirable.  ABU3354

Hunger is a hardship for humans, and food removes it - it is not that there is pleasure in food. Thirst is a hardship for humans, and water removes it - it is not that there is pleasure in water. Therefore if one is hungry, any food gives pleasure, and if not, there is no pleasure at all.  ABU1752

When I was young I never slept on the mattress. I slept on the floor. I would take a book and read it till late at night. When I was drowsy with sleep I would put the book under my head and cover my body with my Aba. How I slept soundly! I can never forget the true enjoyment of those nights.   ABU1682

Christ says that we are like the birds. The birds have habits; one is that they are satisfied with a few grains; they have neither property nor possessions; and they are most of the time on the branches of the trees, singing their beautiful melodies. Now you should be satisfied with worldly things   ABU2085

He was not really a parsimonious fellow but a careful, household economist. He would say the loss of a cargo of wheat is not a thing that will happen often but if one does not watch over his daily expenses sooner or later he will be drained to the bottom and will then have to weep over his own carelessness.   ABU1578


What is needed is unity and harmony and wisdom and moderation in all matters. Blessed are they who have held fast to the cord of unity and acted in accordance with what they were commanded by One Who is All-Knowing, All-Wise. In any case, in all circumstances one must hold fast to moderation and to means that cause the attraction and drawing near of hearts  BH11696

But the friends had promised that henceforth they would conduct their business with moderation. I prayed on this condition, but after receiving confirmations, the drive for commerce prevailed and again they acted recklessly. Contentment is praiseworthy in all matters, even in commerce. The purpose is to facilitate livelihood, for wealth is temporary and expanding the scope of trade causes distraction and has no good end.  AB10882

As much as possible we must make our lives simple and reduce its accumulated complexities. Our necessary wants were originally very few but with the increasing tide of modern civilization, our ancestors and fathers have added to our loads of superficial obligations. If we desire to emancipate ourselves and our children from this slavish custom, we must throw off these heavy burdens of external demands and live an independent, generous, liberal and bountiful life of democratic simplicity and poesy.   ABU1397
