
Tablets have been revealed equal in number to the raindrops, and books to match the number of all knowledge, psalms, scriptures and what lies between them, which none hath comprehended save God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. The essence of utterance hath reached such a station that every letter thereof is a clear book establishing the Cause of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH00349

Now, the equivalent of all heavenly Books--nay, more--hath been sent down in every mode from the heaven of God's Will.  BH00095

The equivalent of all the books of the past and future hath been sent down from the heaven of divine Will. Present thyself before the Face, then ask whatsoever thou desirest, that thou mayest witness the ocean of utterance and its waves, and the sun and its effulgence. Look thou upon the revealed Suras and reflect, that perchance thou mayest turn from the left hand to the right, from ignorance to knowledge, and from darkness to light.  BH00126

For if one from whose life only twenty-four years have passed, and who is devoid of those sciences wherein all are learned, now reciteth verses after such fashion without thought or hesitation, writes a thousand verses of prayer in the course of five hours without pause of the pen  BB00001

Though the dawning-place of this Sun of inner meaning has ever existed, yet its first manifestation occurred in the year nine, and later in the year eighty, after which that Pre-existent Sun rose with utmost radiance and effulgence from the Dayspring of eternity. At every moment, verses of sublime glory streamed forth from the holy divine heaven and the throne of exalted majesty, surging like an ocean and descending like rain, to such extent that none could record them - indeed, the equivalent of a hundred thousand verses remained unrecorded.  BH11688

Say: The verses We have revealed are as numerous as those which, in the preceding Revelation, were sent down upon the Bab. Let him that doubteth the words which the Spirit of God hath spoken seek the court of Our presence and hear Our divinely-revealed verses, and be an eye-witness of the clear proof of Our claim.   BH00657

Through such as this doth God expose the deed of the weary lie...As the Balance is established, there flow from my hands a thousand verses every six hours when rendered in proper Arabic - a proof none in the heavens or earth can match...And from the day He manifested His verses, none hath produced a verse, and all denied and were amazed, while some believed and acknowledged their impotence.   BB00073

The specimens of writing which they had requested were presented to the Most Great Branch - may my spirit be a sacrifice for the dust of His most pure footsteps. He said: "You yourself are witness and can testify that due to the abundance of divine Tablets to be transcribed, there is absolutely no time or opportunity available." And truly it is as He has stated, for even when He repairs to the outskirts of the city for recreation, the Tablets accompany Him and He remains occupied with them there also. Observe how continually petitions arrive from all cities, lands, and from the various regions of this land. The transcription of the Divine Revelation is specifically assigned to this servant, while the transcription of Tablets is entrusted to the Most Great Branch.  BH00713

Verses are being sent down and arriving like rain upon the soil of hearts.   BH09631

That honored one beareth witness that from the beginning of the Cause until now, this Wronged One hath caused verses to rain down like copious rain from the heaven of grace, and hath acted beyond the power and might of all the peoples of the world. No barrier prevented it, no thing became an obstacle.   BH02065

Divine verses have been revealed in such measure as transcendeth computation and is sanctified from limitation. It is hoped that the men of this age will arise with perfect determination to educate mankind - an arising that is sanctified from sitting down and from alteration. Verily God, our Lord, is powerful over all things.  BH00247

At times We revealed it in the form of a Tablet, and at other times in the form of the Spirit, then in an entirely new form.   BH04976

verses are being revealed from the heaven of divine Will in such measure that creation is witnessed to be powerless to enumerate them   BH03053

Divine verses have been revealed in such wise that the writers of the world and the possessors of the pen are incapable and powerless to enumerate them.   BH08146

Your letter sent from M has reached this servant. When I broke its seal, the fragrance of your love for our Most Exalted Lord enveloped me. As I read it, I was consumed by the expressions of your eagerness, yearning and attraction to what was sent to you of the words of our Lord, the All-Possessing, the Self-Subsisting. Weeping overtook me and I presented myself before the Throne, and appeared before His countenance. Then the Tongue of Grandeur and Majesty spoke in such manner that I was unable to record or write it, and remained powerless to set down what the Tongue of Power had uttered. I returned to my place and spent the night remembering and praising you, for I saw you that night sitting with me as we shared stories until morning. I ascended to the Most Exalted Horizon and stood before the Throne. Then the Desired One addressed me and other verses were revealed with the speed of a torrent rushing down from mountains or lightning flashing from clouds - nay, even faster. I was unable to record them. By your life! The wine of verses so intoxicated me that my fingers were prevented from moving and my heart from comprehending what was revealed from the heaven of utterance of our All-Knowing, All-Informed Lord. It was as though I had become a piece of fire as I gazed toward the direction of the Throne like one overcome with bewilderment.... It is submitted that the details were as described.... Now time is short and there is no opportunity for more, otherwise my remembrance of you and description of my condition would never end.  BH02999

So continuous was the stream of Verses descending from the Heaven of thy Lord, the Possessor of all Names and Attributes, that their sweet savours encompassed all the worlds.   BH02009

We have sent down the verses in the tongue of the people of Persia and dispatched them to the Arabs, and We have sent down the verses to the Persians in a clear Arabic tongue.   BH06960

Suddenly He commanded: "Take up the pen, and with power and grandeur, openly in a clear voice, the verses of God were revealed while the monk of that place stood by listening."  BH05706

"divine verses have been suspended, meaning they are not being revealed outwardly, this servant has also delayed in sending petitions until such time as may be deemed appropriate"  BH04452

At all times verses descend like rain from the heaven of the favor of the Lord of the Worlds - nay, even more abundantly - yet the people remain in evident doubt and mighty suspicion.   BH02357

The outpourings of divine revelation continually and successively drip from the leaves of the Divine Lote-Tree, appearing and shining forth in the form of words in the divine Tablets.   BH01282

At times He spoke in Persian, and at times in Arabic, and at times without either. He doeth whatsoever He willeth and ordaineth whatsoever He desireth, and He is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH10082



The Blessed Beauty did not make any more public speeches after leaving Baghdad and Adrianople. The mode of His discourse and the style of His utterances were a cause of wonder and were without peer or likeness.   ABU3294

The verses have been sent down in such wise that the Kingdom of Utterance circleth round them, as attesteth He Who speaketh in every state, that there is none other God but Him, the Single, the One, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Loving.   BH01561

Thus was opened the gate of utterance and there emerged from it the Book of Knowledge with such effulgences that were they to appear upon the earth in less than the eye of a needle, by God, all would be found thunderstruck upon the ground   BH03239

We have at times revealed that which none knoweth save whom God willeth, and in another station We have revealed verses in such wise that the servants understand them and what their Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed, intendeth thereby.   BH04655

While divine verses are being revealed like torrential rain, nay even more abundantly, and the letters of divine friends arrive continuously and successively, how could any mortal accomplish this mighty and momentous task except through His grace, His favor, and His kindness?  BH04758

Divine verses have been revealed in such manner that none except His sanctified Essence is capable of enumerating them, and exalted and wondrous Tablets specifically for the loved ones have been sent down from the heaven of the favor of the Lord of Lords, successively and continuously.  BH06491

The writings of the Point, exalted be His glory, the Bayan, were revealed in the manner of verses and in portions from the Book of God, exalted be His glory. Therefore, let these portions be bound into another volume, and if God willeth, all that hath been revealed in the Book shall be gathered for us.  BB00004

Therefore when one school states that the words of God are 'uncreated and eternal' they are right, because they mean the 'Spiritual Words' and when the other school asserts that the Words of God are 'created and finite' they mean the 'finite Words' and the 'Creational words', because their character changes from time to time.   ABU1390

Glorified be He Who sendeth down verses anew, in a manner that draweth unto Him all them that are nigh unto God, and hath ordained therein the measures of all things in such wise that all who are in the heavens and on earth are powerless before it. BH01729

What God revealed to Muhammad over twenty-three years, if God had wished, He could have revealed to him in two days and two nights. Say: If you desire, We shall surely reveal to you, for We are powerful over that. If it is not detailed in two days and two nights and written before Us by one who tires not, this is from God's command, the Mighty, the Inaccessible.  BB00003

We have revealed Our verses in nine different modes. Each one of them bespeaketh the sovereignty of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. A single one of them sufficeth for a proof unto all who are in the heavens and on the earth; yet the people, for the most part, persist in their heedlessness. Should it be Our wish, We would reveal them in countless other modes.  BH00007

The rapture of the verses hath seized thee in such wise as cannot be described in words, so that when I sit, it raiseth me up with such an uprising as the onslaught of the ungodly cannot quell. When I am silent, the All-Powerful causeth me to speak and biddeth me to cry out betwixt earth and heaven. When I sleep, my heart calleth me and addresseth me saying: This is not the time for slumber.  BH10508

And verily that which God revealed unto Muhammad in twenty-three years, God will reveal unto Me in two days and two nights, when no command from His presence divideth between them. He, verily, hath power over all things. By the life of Him Whom God shall make manifest! My Revelation is more wondrous than the Revelation of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, if ye be of them that ponder in the days of God.  BB00003

And whenever We repeat the words, in each one of them We intend a meaning which none has understood save My All-Knowing, All-Informed Self. By thy life! Had We found the people to have attained maturity, We would not have repeated the words. Thou dost witness that whatsoever proceedeth from My Pen at every moment is of a wondrous nature. And verily, whenever We send down from the Kingdom of Glory and Power that which We send down, We do so in a manner suited to this creation.  BH00127

There is no doubt that the Almighty hath sent down these verses unto Him [the Bab], even as He sent down unto the Apostle of God. Indeed no less than a hundred thousand verses similar to these have already been disseminated among the people, not to mention His Epistles, His Prayers or His learned and philosophical treatises. He revealeth no less than a thousand verses within the space of five hours. He reciteth verses at a speed consonant with the capacity of His amanuensis to set them down.  BB00001

There lieth concealed within thee a melody which, were We to reveal it in its fullness, would attract the entire world. Yet We have revealed it in measure, with wisdom. Thus hath the Source of Divinity willed, though the people remain heedless and veiled. Were We to reveal it in its fullness, it would attract all. But after being drawn by the detailed word which is engaged in mending and rending among creation, from one direction would rise the cry of lovers in complete attraction and yearning, while from another the clamor of the people of hatred would be raised in utter rejection and rebellion. In such case the veils of wisdom would be rent asunder. Therefore We revealed it in measure.   BH02413

This is the station of divine revelation. It is not a sensible, but an intelligible reality. It is sanctified from and transcendent above past, present, and future. It is a comparison and an analogy-a metaphor and not a literal truth. It is not the condition that is commonly understood by the human mind when it is said that someone was asleep and then awoke, but signifies a passage from one state to another. For example, sleeping is the state of repose, and wakefulness is the state of motion. Sleeping is the state of silence, and wakefulness is the state of utterance. Sleeping is the state of concealment, and wakefulness is that of manifestation. Briefly, the Manifestations of God have ever been and will ever be luminous Realities, and no change or alteration ever takes place in Their essence. At most, before Their revelation They are still and silent, like one who is asleep, and after Their revelation They are eloquent and effulgent, like one who is awake.  AB00259

For example, when Moses went up to Mount Sinai to establish the religion of God, He fasted for forty days; and fasting was therefore enjoined upon the Israelites to awaken and admonish them. Likewise Christ, at the beginning of the foundation of His divine religion, the establishment of His teachings, and the formulation of His admonitions, disregarded for forty days all physical necessities and refrained from food and drink. Similarly, the Qur'an was revealed during the month of Ramadan and therefore the fast was enjoined during that period. In the same way, in the beginning of His manifestation, the Bab would be so overcome with emotion at the revelation of the divine verses that for days He would confine himself to drinking tea. Likewise, in the days when He was instituting the divine teachings, and when the divine verses would be sent down continuously, Baha'u'llah would be so overwhelmed with the intensity of their influence and the emotions surging within His heart that He would take but little food.   AB00059

By God! I was sleeping when the breathings of revelation stirred me, and I was silent when my Lord, the Mighty, the Powerful, caused me to speak. Were it not for His Command, I would not have revealed myself. His Will hath encompassed my will, and He hath established me in a Cause whereby the darts of the idolaters have assailed me.   BH00565

The movement of the Supreme Pen in the fields of Tablets is witnessed in different styles. In one instance, the matter is revealed with brevity - this expression is known as 'easily impossible' - and in another instance, both modes are combined. Therefore in the Surih of Kings the aforementioned verses were mentioned concisely, and this is most eloquent. "When it is asked, 'For what crime have they imprisoned Him?' they answer, 'Indeed, they desired to renew religion'" - meaning that if it be asked for what crime and transgression have ye imprisoned the Luminary of creation, they say these people desired to renew religion. From the Most Exalted Source the answer was revealed: If ye choose the ancient and it is preferred by you, why then did ye abandon the previous religions? At the beginning of this verse, "Say" is implied, so it would read "Say: If the ancient is what is chosen..." etc. And since the meaning of "Say" is understood from the utterance of the All-Merciful, it was therefore not mentioned, and this is the manifestation of perfect eloquence.   BH00972

Until now, this servant has, according to command, effaced in water the equivalent of what was revealed by the Point (the Bab), may the souls of all else be sacrificed for Him, and what remains equals what has been seen from the Primal Point and the previous Prophets, nay rather exceeds it. Every fair-minded and discerning person bears witness to this.  BH00119

The world hath been encompassed by wondrous and exalted verses, and manifest verses equivalent to all heavenly books have been revealed, and outwardly that hath transpired in the past or shall come to pass in the future hath been set forth with utmost clarity in God's Holy Book.  BH00057

Apart from these matters, the equivalent of all heavenly books from the Point and before Him is now present and available. Come and see, and be present at the time of revelation, that perchance the breezes of divine revelation may attract thee, or the fragrance of inspiration may lead thee to thy goal. O Hadi! If thou art prevented from being present, appoint a deputy or representative. Perchance ye may find that of which ye are now heedless and turn towards that from which ye have turned away.  BH00018