There are no solitaries and no hermits among the Baha'is. Man must work with his fellows.   ABU2418

People must live for one another, and not live in seclusion as do the monks and nuns. People should not live solitary lives.  AB11082

not those who live in seclusion in monasteries, who enter alive and exit dead and whose existence is completely idle and fruitless  ABU2425

"If we hold enmity with life, we are ingrates, for our material and spiritual existence is the outward evidences of the divine mercy."  ABU0725

Asceticism is not necessary. The extreme asceticism of the saints was superstition. The monasticism of the Christian church was mistaken. St. Paul was responsible for much of this because in one of his epistles he praises those who do not marry and prophesied that sects would arise which would not marry. St. Paul disapproved of marriage. But God did not give us good gifts that we should reject them. He created all these blessings that His servants may bless Him. ABU2806

Exaggerated fasting destroys the divine forces. God has created man in a way that cannot be surpassed; we must not try to change his creation.  ABU1585

Myriads of mystics have led lives of asceticism for long years and innumerable are the learned souls who endured many a hardship in the path of search.   AB04061

How many souls spent their lives in worship and underwent austerities, yearning to enter the Kingdom but did not succeed! Yet you achieved this without hardship or austerity   AB04648

And as for self-perfection in this Dispensation, it is not dependent upon spiritual exercises, seclusion and isolation... The rules and principles of spiritual exercises that existed before have been entirely abrogated.   AB02817

O people of the earth! Living in seclusion or practicing asceticism is not acceptable in the presence of God. It behooveth them that are endued with insight and understanding to observe that which will cause joy and radiance.  BH00111

Some believe that through austerity and seclusion one can achieve moral refinement and nearness to God. However, the way of the Prophets and their teachings is that humans must be healthy and occupied in order to be able to serve humanity.  ABU0481

As for what thou hast asked concerning unity and monasticism, the decree of solitude and seclusion - thou hast no right to this, for in this Faith the principle of monasticism is not beloved of God, nor hath He commanded it to His chosen ones.  BB00186

In this Cause there is no monasticism, but a person who wants to dedicate their time to teaching the Cause of God and serving their fellow humans can withdraw from all other affairs. Certainly spending time serving the Kingdom of God is better, but not monasticism.   ABU1434

The monks who spent years upon years in mountains and wilderness in monasteries and who imagined they were worshipping God and spent their days in austerity - they were the people who were called but you who underwent no hardship were chosen through pure divine bounty.   AB00660

In the past, some people would engage in austerities with the thought of abandoning physical pleasures and suppressing anger and passion...Thus the purpose of austerity is abandoning the self and desires while still partaking of blessings, not being deprived of God's bounties.  ABU1983

Consider these nuns. They are not aware of the teachings of Christ, nor of His ordinances, and indeed are ignorant of everything. But in following their own vain imaginings are in fact performing these sacrificial deeds. They withdraw from society and normal life and live in these convents.   ABU0855

The monks (and nuns) who were spending years and years in mountains, wilderness and monasteries, were thinking that they had been worshipping God and living their days in asceticism, were only of the called ones, while ye who did not suffer any hardship, became the chosen through the mere Bounty of God.  AB12239

while many ascetics and devotees, who take no account of the time of the day, consecrate themselves to the Adored One in the mosques and monasteries with heads constantly bowed in worship, and numerous holy women and nuns seclude themselves by renouncing the world and live in a state of continual fasting, have not.  AB06165

There is no monasticism in this Cause, but a person who wishes to devote his time exclusively to teaching the Cause of God and serving the human race can still distance himself from the things of this world. It would certainly be preferable for him to spend his time in service to the Kingdom of God, but not to practise monasticism.  ABU3694

Most of these girls come from Europe and dedicate their lives entirely to prayer and worship. They are known as the brides of Christ. Once they enter that building they are not allowed to come out. They do not speak with any one and their food is served by an attendant. The rooms in which they live are cell-like and are very dark.   ABU2081

But some among the Shi'ite sect maintain their dwellings and attire in an unrefined state and consider this asceticism and the very essence of piety. Indeed, if these conditions arise from poverty, there is no harm in it and it is acceptable before God. But when means are available, whatsoever they manifest or bestow in charity is beloved in the sight of God.  BH01791

Some are of the opinion that, by practising asceticism and withdrawing from society, one can rectify one's character and draw closer to God. Yet all the Prophets of God have enjoined a way of life, and have articulated a set of teachings, that call on people to maintain good health and be engaged in some kind of work, that thereby they may render service to all humanity.  ABU2562

Thousands upon thousands of daughters of kings and children of nobles and great ones abandoned silk and brocade, forsook comfort and peace of soul and heart's desire and adornment, turned away from father and mother, detached themselves from every joy and happiness and pleasure, donned the garment of monasticism to become nuns, and spent their days and nights in worship and austerity and solitude and supplication   AB02651

The Pseudo-teachers of religions beguile these unsuspecting girls by unreal pleasant pictures of solitude and retirement. They drag them away from their homes, parents and friends and confine them for all the rest of their lives in this prison. Their life in the nunnery is worse than the life of the inmates of a penitentiary, for the latter at least speak with each other, enjoy a little fresh air at stated time and look forward to the day when they are set at liberty.  ABU0496

No result is gathered from their lives. They enter the monastery alive and they are taken out when dead. Their entire lives are spent in the dark cells; never speaking with any human being, always praying or subjecting themselves to severe self-tortures. Many cannot endure such life and die within a short while. Although from one standpoint this is the highest degree of severance, yet it is a kind of severance which is not only harmful to the body polity but it is productive of no result what so ever.  ABU0851

Physical asceticism will in the course of time cause an absolute atrophy of the parts, resulting in the greatest weakness. There will be no love of transgression, no attachment to this life, no covetousness, no aggressiveness, but all this is due to great weakness of powers. But spiritual asceticism will help one to attain to such blossoming of powers as will help one to attain to make up his mind against the things that are not to be and will encourage him in the things to be. In this Dispensation there is no physical or material asceticism.   ABU0687

Were anyone to wash the feet of all mankind, and were he to worship God in the forests, valleys, and mountains, upon high hills and lofty peaks, to leave no rock or tree, no clod of earth, but was a witness to his worship--yet, should the fragrance of My good pleasure not be inhaled from him, his works would never be acceptable unto God. How many a man hath secluded himself in the climes of India, denied himself the things that God hath decreed as lawful, imposed upon himself austerities and mortifications, and hath not been remembered by God, the Revealer of Verses.  Make not your deeds as snares wherewith to entrap the object of your aspiration  BH00001

The pious deeds of the monks and priests among the followers of the Spirit-upon Him be the peace of God-are remembered in His presence. In this Day, however, let them give up the life of seclusion and direct their steps towards the open world and busy themselves with that which will profit themselves and others.  BH00568

Say: O concourse of monks! Abandon the churches wherein ye have glorified your Lord, for He Who ascended unto heaven hath in very truth come down again and circleth round the Throne of God.  BH00334

Say: O concourse of monks! Seclude not yourselves in churches and cloisters. Come forth by My leave, and occupy yourselves with that which will profit your souls and the souls of men. Thus biddeth you the King of the Day of Reckoning. Seclude yourselves in the stronghold of My love. This, verily, is a befitting seclusion, were ye of them that perceive it. He that shutteth himself up in a house is indeed as one dead. It behooveth man to show forth that which will profit all created things, and he that bringeth forth no fruit is fit for fire. Thus counseleth you your Lord, and He, verily, is the Almighty, the All-Bounteous. Enter ye into wedlock, that after you someone may fill your place. We have forbidden you perfidious acts, and not that which will demonstrate fidelity. Have ye clung to the standards fixed by your own selves, and cast the standards of God behind your backs? Fear God, and be not of the foolish. But for man, who would make mention of Me on My earth, and how could My attributes and My name have been revealed? Ponder ye, and be not of them that are veiled and fast asleep. He that wedded not [Jesus] found no place wherein to dwell or lay His head, by reason of that which the hands of the treacherous had wrought. His sanctity consisteth not in that which ye believe or fancy, but rather in the things We possess. Ask, that ye may apprehend His station which hath been exalted above the imaginings of all that dwell on earth. Blessed are they who perceive it.  BH00505

consider how numerous, in these days, are the monks who, in My Name, have secluded themselves in their churches, and who, when the appointed time was fulfilled, and We unveiled Our beauty, knew Us not, though they call upon Me at eventide and at dawn. We behold them clinging to My name, yet veiled from My Self. This, verily, is a strange thing.  BH00347

O Monk of the Divine Unity! Ring out the bell, for the Day of the Lord is come and the Beauty of the All-Glorious hath ascended His blessed and resplendent throne.  BH00759

