Faran become the Mount of Moses   AB04912

behold the fire of Moses, witness the flame of Sinai   AB04064

O Commander! Hear the call of thy Lord upon Mount Sinai  BB00002

The fire of Moses hath appeared and set Mount Sinai ablaze  AB05264

The morning breeze hath blown through the Sheba of Solomon  AB05264

"That thou mayyst see Mount Sinai circling here in worship"   BH03843

Him Who conversed with Thee from the evil of the Pharaoh of the age   BH07691

Moses on the Mount of Knowledge gives glad tidings of the Manifestation.   BH06837

I beseech Thee by that revelation whereby Moses the Interlocutor was struck down   BH07687

then say with Jacob, the Patriarch, "I will not let You go, unless You bless me!"  ABU2948

like unto Jacob's, in his eagerness with the scent of the garment of the true Joseph   AB05547

your Job-like affliction, the separation of your Joseph and the anguish of your Jacob   AB02829

He Who conversed with God [reference to Moses] took His seat upon the throne of Revelation   BH11103

Glory be to Him Who appeared in Faran and shone forth from Sinai and was manifested in Sa'ir!   AB04926

We have caused you to hear in all times that which We caused the Interlocutor to hear on Sinai   BH04316

We found a people from among the dwellers of Sinai who were standing upon the land of allusions.  BH10360

This is the Day whereon human ears have been privileged to hear what He Who conversed with God heard upon Sinai   BH07881

The Friend and He Who conversed with God have come...The Mount hath attained to the presence of the Manifestation   BH07382

This is the day wherein the attraction of the Call that was raised from the direction of 'Akka hath seized Mount Sinai.   BH03393

the Valley of Ayman, the wilderness of Sinai and the Mount of Revelation to Moses which is mentioned in the verse of the Qur'an   AB07064

and like Jacob, your eyes were opened by the blessing of the garment, and you were perfumed by the fragrance of the divine Joseph's shirt  AB06091

Say: O people! Dust fill your mouths, and ashes blind your eyes, for having bartered away the Divine Joseph for the most paltry of prices.   BH02218

Through His Most Exalted Word, illumined the world of kingdom and dominion with the lights of the manifestation of Him Who conversed upon Sinai  BH04438

Moses attained to hearing the divine call in the Sinai of recognition, and this is that same call with which the Goal of the world now speaketh.  BH09796

And "they came to their father in the evening, weeping" hath been fulfilled, and "they sold him for a paltry price, a few dirhams" hath become manifest.   AB04801

It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments - Psalm 133:2  ABU3376

In the time of Moses, the ides of the Trinity was shown in (1) God, (2) the speaker of Mount Sinai, and (3) The Fire (which corresponds to our idea of the Holy Spirit).  ABU2649

We guided Moses on the Mount of Knowledge and caused him to hear that which delighted his eyes, ignited his heart, expanded his breast, and illumined his countenance   BH04124

O Commander! Hear the call of thy Lord upon Mount Sinai: Verily there is no God but Him, and I am the Most High, as hath been hidden in what God hath ordained in the Mother Book.  BB00002

His Holiness Moses beheld the luminous flame of divine guidance from the blessed olive tree, neither of the east nor of the west, and heard the divine call from that enkindled fire.  AB02969

This is no ordinary chest-it is the Ark of the Covenant, even as He saith: "And a sign of his kingdom is that there shall come to you the Ark wherein is tranquility." Then He saith: "borne by the angels."  AB08804

Today in the wilderness of nearness unto the Spirit thou art crying "Here am I, here am I," and in the city of the love of Him Who conversed with God thou art uttering "Praise be unto Thee, O God of all the worlds."   BH06106

Through it was Moses drawn to the Mount of Revelation when He turned toward Sinai and heard Thy sweetest call and attained the vision of Thy most resplendent Beauty which Thou didst reveal unto Him through one of Thy names.   BH03112

You have caught the scent of Joseph's garment and found your way to the divine Egypt, and like Jacob you have regained your sight. I hope that you may behold the divine Beauty of Joseph and attain to the station of unveiled vision.  AB09601

His Holiness Moses beheld the burning fire in the Blessed Tree, and thou hast beheld the burning fire in the Tree of Sanctification. Although that verdant Tree was the Reality of Moses wherein the fire of the love of God was ignited.  AB07580

O ye possessors of sight! With the inner eyes contemplate the Horizon of the world, that ye may behold the Mount of Sinai and the Country of Safety resplendent through the Light of God and radiating with the Manifestation of the Lord!  BH03775

"The word "Moses" in Hebrew was "Moshi," meaning "drawn from the water," for Asiyih drew him from the water. Now you too should not be drowned in abundant weeping and floods of tears in the sea of grief, for the hand of the Asiyih of grace has lifted you up"  AB01588

Stand thou firm in the Cause of God like unto a tree firmly rooted, with massive trunk, widespread branches and abundant fruits, that thou mayest become a manifestation of that which the glorious Lord hath said in the Gospel: "By their fruits ye shall know them."  AB09718

Mount Sinai is astir with the joy of beholding Our countenance. She hath lifted her enthralling voice in glorification of her Lord, saying: 'O Lord! I sense the fragrance of Thy garment. Methinks Thou art near, invested with the signs of God. Thou hast ennobled these regions with Thy footsteps.'  BH00505

O sapling of the garden of truth! Praise be to God, like unto Moses thou hast witnessed the flame of the Mount, and observed the radiance of light in the human tree. Thou hast heard the divine call and been struck unconscious by its power. Now is the time to arise with the white hand, to manifest the evident serpent, and to cause rivers to gush forth from the solid rock.  AB07160

As regards the interpretation of Jinab-i Aqa Ibrahim's dream of 'two blistered hands': by this is meant that the troubled and ailing heart, God willing, will be illumined and cheered with the supreme divine light, and even as the generous hand of the One Who conversed with God (Moses) it shall be 'white to all beholders.' And 'Draw Thy hand from Thy bosom, white to all beholders' will be fulfilled.  AB05365
