
His Holiness Moses had a stammering speech and asked [God], 'I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue. Grant me [the aid of] Aaron, my brother.' And His wish was granted. However, Pharaoh spoke mockingly to Him, 'You are a murderer and claim to be a Prophet?!' Behold now that in America, after 3000 years, they raise temples in the name of Moses.... Where is Pharaoh now to behold the majesty of Moses?  ABU1489

When Moses came from the Midian of longing to the Sinai of radiance, he was blessed with supreme guidance through a gleam of light and flame of manifestation in the Tree of Sinai  AB04091

Then after him We sent forth Him Who conversed with God (Moses) with clear signs and made him a proof unto all in the heavens and earth. We sent him to Pharaoh and his chiefs. He came before him and said: "I have come to thee from the Dawning Place of glory and power with a clear authority. Fear God and join no partners with Him, and be not of the heedless." He waxed proud before God and opposed Him Who conversed with God, following the ways of Satan, until the sorcerers gathered at an appointed time on a known day, as We have sent down in the scrolls of old. We effaced sorcery and confirmed that which was given to Him Who conversed with God from Our presence, and I am the All-Powerful, the Almighty. We commanded him to depart with the Children of Israel, and when he departed, Pharaoh and his hosts pursued them from behind to seize them unjustly. We drowned them and delivered those who believed in God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH00705


Moses, the Prophet, (after His death) had more than a million followers; but as they were not pure, the Cause of Moses only extended to Syria. All were not of the same mind and devotion and were not confirmed to do any great work. The Israelites alone had some development for a time, but the followers of Jesus Christ, as they were united together and had the same ideas and were cut from every worldly thing, they succeeded in spreading the teachings of Jesus Christ.  ABU0785

He hath created all contingent beings through His pre-existent knowledge of what was and what shall be, and taught them the ways of righteousness by sending unto them the Messengers of the Cause with a mighty revealed Book wherein He ordained holy laws and determined the destinies of all who dwell in the heavens and on earth according to a fixed measure. Among them was Moses, whom He sent with the truth, with nine clear signs, to herald unto the people a station of glorious dignity. He returned with his kindred until he entered the wilderness of Sinai, where he heard the call from the Most Sublime Retreat: "O Moses! Cast off the two sandals of desire, then walk upon the holy, beloved carpet. This is the Land of Immortality, the Valley of Paradise near Iraq, wherein that which was kindled from the Tree of God, the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting, was blessed." And he called the people unto God, the Most High, and drew them nigh unto the Shore whereat melted the hearts of those who dwelt in the pavilions of eternity in the blessed spot, entering therein by God's leave. When Moses cast off the sandals of allusion and detached himself unto God, then did God call unto him from the holy Tree amidst the flames of fire: "O Moses! Verily, I am God, thy Lord and the Lord of thy fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." "Cast down thy staff!" He cast it down and lo! by God's command it became a serpent that sought to devour all in the heavens and earth. Thus was it decreed for him in holy Paran, that perchance the people might be mindful in the days of their Lord. Then did the Hand of Power emerge from the Bosom of Knowledge, whereupon the light shone forth and illumined all who dwell in the dominion of command and creation, would ye but understand. "Go forth, O Moses, with My proof unto Pharaoh and his chiefs, remind them of the lights of divine unity, and give them glad tidings of the paradise of immortality, that they may incline toward the direction of the Throne. Say: This is My path, walk ye therein, O ye who stand still!" When he came unto Pharaoh, he said: "I am God's Messenger, I have come to you from the cities of immortality with the tidings of the Spirit, would ye but perceive." Pharaoh said: "O Moses! Who is thy Lord?" He replied: "He Who created the heavens and earth, and brought you forth from a handful of aged clay." Pharaoh turned to his chiefs and said: "Verily, the messenger sent unto you is surely mad, and he desireth naught but to cause corruption in the land and to scatter you asunder, would ye but know." They denied God's signs and turned away from them until the flood overtook them, and they were drowned.  BH01342


Moses was the teacher of God; He gave the teachings of holiness and educated the Israelites. He raised up the people from their degradation and caused them to be highly honoured. He taught them Sciences and Arts, trained them in civilization and increased their human virtues. ABU1202

We have indeed read the letter which thou didst send down by God's leave, and We have learned of the mention of the name of Abraham and then of him who sent down the oil. Say: God will recompense the doers of good. And verily what was said regarding Moses in the Qur'an is the truth, and in like manner God, thy Lord, doth teach His servants who are possessed of certitude.  BB00585

We chose the Interlocutor [Moses] aforetime and sent him to Pharaoh and his chiefs with nine clear signs...Among these was the staff of Command whereby We parted the sea and delivered those who believed, and drowned the idolaters  BH04942


Out of love for His Visage, Moses hastened to the Mystic Mount   BH02846

He sent forth Moses with the rod of Command and the white hand of knowledge   BH01686

it spoke that which guided Moses unto God, the Lord of the unseen and the seen   BH07827

Many people crossed the desert of Sinai but it was Moses who heard the voice of God   ABU1840

His Holiness Moses heard the call of the Merciful Lord from the kindled fire in the green tree.  AB08898

This fire guided the Son of Imran to the highest horizon and enabled him to hearken unto the Voice.  BH04890

When His Holiness Moses the Great delivered Israel from ancient Egypt and brought them to the Holy Land  AB01333

The Lord addressed Moses and Aaron saying: When you go to Pharaoh, speak in a moderate, sweet language.  ABU3237

His highness, Moses, was apparently a shepherd, but through the Divine Power, he overcame Pharaoh and his armies.   ABU1511

His Holiness Moses was sent forth with the manifest serpent. Its light shone upon the heights and depths of Mount Seir.  AB03869

"We desire what Moses asked of God, the Lord of all worlds...and caused them to hear what Moses heard on the Mount of Recognition"  BH04654

His Holiness Moses conveyed the Word of God to the Pharaoh of his time, and in the early days a strong party secretly supported him   BH07991

According to your vain belief, Moses was false and guilty against Abraham - what guilt was manifest that you cast Him into the fire?  BH08151

And follow the example of His Holiness Moses who, when He heard the call from the Burning Bush of Sinai, arose with all His soul to guide mankind  AB12491

Thus when Moses went to Mount Sinai and was occupied there with establishing God's law, he fasted for forty days to remind and awaken the Israelite people.  AB03269

As He says in the Torah, speaking directly to Moses without veil, addressing him and in certain instances calling him Lord and created things as lordly ones.  BH00377

His Holiness Moses, the Speaker with God, beheld the emanation of the light of the Divine Identity from the kindled fire in the green tree, and heard the call  AB02584

O Musa! The Interlocutor attained His presence and the Friend mentioned "My heart is at rest." Say: The Command of ten words lieth concealed in a single word, the oceans of utterance are hidden in a single letter, and the pearls of wisdom are treasured in a single shell. The Interlocutor of the Mount is seated upon the throne of Revelation.  BH03639

all the realities of the Prophets and Messengers, one of whom was Moses son of Imran, expired on the Mount of the glorious Cause at the appearance of the sublime Mystery   BH01510

Despite His speech impediment, His Holiness Moses was enabled to deliver decisive utterance and interpret the Book. Though slow of speech, He became the One Who conversed with God.  AB10615

Yesterday, incidentally, I was writing to a philosopher who maintained that the Prophets are barriers to progress, and I proved his error. I wrote him about the truth of His Holiness Moses. Consider how lofty is His sovereignty!  Conversely, consider the case of Pharaoh. There is no sign of him, no name of him, no trace of him. The little name that remains of him is because he was a contemporary of His Holiness Moses. Otherwise, pharaohs were many.  ABU0797

Verily the Friend remembereth thee from this station, when He was set ablaze with the fire of the love of God which was revealed by a spark thereof unto Moses, son of Imran, on the Mount of utterance.   BH03282

Moses with but one staff struck the kingdom of creation - weakness took no hold of him and laxity found no way, for the very soul of his soul was gladdened and rejoiced by the light of the divine presence.   BH02221

Moses came at a time when Egypt was dark and ignorance had encompassed it, when souls were in the utmost degree of savagery. Moses was a divine teacher. He taught the divine verses, educated the Israelite people  ABU1159

Then look before Him at Moses when He came with His Lord's signs, and the people turned away from Him on that day and denied God's Cause after its manifestation and committed that which caused the clouds to cry out.   BH02423

Moses, peace be upon him, rescued the children of Israel from degradation, imprisonment and abandonment, and educated them with support from the All-Powerful until he brought them to the heights of glory and elevation...   ABU0168

And among them was Moses, whom God assisted with the rod of His Command and honored with nine verses from the Bayan. He said: "O people! These are the signs of God which ye behold. Fear ye God and be guided by His guidance."  BH02051

Moses was a universal Teacher. He trained and disciplined the people of Israel, enabled them to rescue themselves from the lowest abyss of despair and ignorance and caused them to attain an advanced degree of knowledge and development.  ABU0280

How greatly did the Son of 'Imran supplicate and implore in this wilderness, wherein is situated the Sinai of divine knowledge, that he might attain the presence of the All-Merciful, until at last he heard that which is recorded in detail in the Holy Books.   BH00794

Moses was neither a philosopher nor a scientist. Outwardly he was but a simple shepherd, but he was able to instruct and develop a whole nation which had been in a state of demoralization; but which through his influence reached a very enlightened civilization   ABU1653

When His Holiness Moses (peace be upon Him) hastened to the Valley of Ayman, He beheld the flame of Sinai and witnessed the radiance of light. He acquired the fire of the love of God from the Blessed Tree, while others were deprived of this bounty and distant from this grace.  AB04441

His holiness Moses beheld the flame of fire from the green tree and heard a Voice, whereupon he became unconscious and senseless, and became the confidant of the Divine Call and Message. He brought forth the manifest serpent and drew forth the white hand from the mighty bosom.  AB08849

Behold and remember when We sent forth Him Who conversed with God with clear signs; the people turned away from Him until We helped Him through a command from Us. Verily thy Lord is the Helper of the Messengers. His rod prevailed over the swords of Pharaoh and his chiefs.   BH00601

Moses lived in the wilderness of Sinai where crime necessitated direct punishment. There were no penitentiaries or penalties of imprisonment. Therefore, according to the exigency of the time and place it was a law of God that an eye should be given for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.  ABU0015

One of the prophets of God was His Holiness Moses. If we study his life and Teachings and find he has fulfilled these duties we come to the conclusion that he was the first spiritual educator of mankind. We observe that Moses was a Jew. From an outward standpoint he had no power, no dominion and no influence and there were no means at all at his disposal. He himself was in the utmost poverty. A person like unto this appeared on the field at a time when the Israelites were in the lowest stage of humiliation. They were extremely ignorant and wrapped in the dark and gloomy atmosphere of human defects. They were captives and were looked down upon by all mankind as a nation of serfs. His Holiness Moses delivered them from captivity. Out of the darkness of their former conditions he lead them into the Holy Land of Promise and imparted to them a moral education. As a consequence of this education they attained to the then highest degree of civilization. He conferred upon them ideal virtues. In scientific knowledge they made great progress, such progress that degree by degree they became famous throughout the world and distinguished from all other neighboring countries. Their knowledge and wisdom reached such a state of perfection that the philosophers and learned men of Greece traveled to the Holy Land and learned from them the lessons of philosophy. Then the Solomonic Sovereignty was established. Therefore there remains no shadow of a doubt that His Holiness Moses was the first Educator of mankind. Unique, single, with no assistance, no support, no aid and notwithstanding a stammering tongue, he caused the rise of such a lowly, degraded nation to the apogee of spiritual attainment and wisdom. This shows that he was unquestionably confirmed by the divine Holy-Spirit, because from every standpoint this is unparalleled. All the great philosophers who have stepped into the world of existence could not give a moral education to the inhabitants of a village. The utmost they could do was to have ten or twenty students to whom they gave lectures and conferences. From these instances we comprehend that His Holiness Moses was inspired by the spiritual power; because mere man would be unable to reform a nation like unto that of Israelites, delivering millions of people from the claws of defects and ignorance and causing them to fly upward toward the realms of light and the Effulgence of God!  ABU0692

So much so that Pharaoh and his people finally arose and exerted their utmost endeavor to extinguish with the waters of falsehood and denial the fire of that sacred Tree, oblivious of the truth that no earthly water can quench the flame of divine wisdom, nor mortal blasts extinguish the lamp of everlasting dominion.  BH00002

The Jews were in the lowest condition of ignorance, and captives under Pharaoh when Moses appeared and raised them to a high state of civilization. Thus was the reign of Solomon brought about and science and art were made known to mankind. Even Greek philosophers became students of Solomon's teaching. Thus was Moses proved to be a Prophet.  AB01160

The Israelites were in Egypt, in the utmost ignorance and degradation, and their condition was so low as to cause everyone to weep over his lot. In the meantime GOD sent Moses to deliver them from their lowly condition, and to enable them to attain the highest spiritual light, instruction, civilization, etc., that was possible in that day and age.   ABU0272

Moses delivered that people from degradation and led them to the Holy Land. He so educated Israel that they rose from the depths of degradation to the heights of glory, to such a degree that they became renowned among the nations of the world. They advanced in the sciences, they advanced in civilization, they advanced in the crafts, they advanced in philosophy.  ABU0032

Now, this reproach and rebuke was in reality addressed to the children of Israel, who, on account of their rebellion against the commandments of God, were made to dwell for a long period in the barren desert beyond the Jordan until the time of Joshua. This reproach and rebuke appeared to be addressed to Moses and Aaron, but in reality it was directed to the people of Israel.  AB00168

His Holiness Moses, peace be upon Him, nobly educated the people of Israel. After they had been abject before Pharaoh, He made Israel mighty. They were poor, He made them wealthy. They were ignorant, He made them learned. They were cowardly, He made them courageous. They were lowly and wandering, He gave them organization. They progressed so much that they became renowned throughout all regions.  ABU1031

"Moses was for a long time a shepherd in the wilderness. To outward seeming He was a man who had been reared in the bosom of tyranny, had become reputed among men as a murderer, had taken up the shepherd's staff, and was fiercely hated and reviled by Pharaoh's government and people. It was such a man who freed a great people from the fetters of captivity, and persuaded them to leave Egypt and settle in the Holy Land."  AB00855

Among the revelators of the law of God was Moses. When He appeared, all the contemporaneous nations rejected Him. Notwithstanding this, single and alone He promulgated the divine teachings and liberated a nation from the lowest condition of degradation and bondage. The people of Israel were ignorant, lowly, debased in morals -- a race of slaves under burdensome oppression. Moses led them out of captivity and brought them to the Holy Land.   ABU0057

And when His day was ended, there came the turn of Moses. Armed with the rod of celestial dominion, adorned with the white hand of divine knowledge, and proceeding from the Paraan of the love of God, and wielding the serpent of power and everlasting majesty, He shone forth from the Sinai of light upon the world. He summoned all the peoples and kindreds of the earth to the kingdom of eternity, and invited them to partake of the fruit of the tree of faithfulness.  BH00002

Consider the Israelites - before the appearance of Moses, they were in a bad condition and were under the sway of the people of Pharaoh, that is, in great darkness and ignorance. Then God sent Moses unto them who called them out of that darkness and guided them into the Light of God, and disclosed His mysteries and diffused the knowledge of God among them and revealed unto them the wisdom of God, till at last that despised and ignorant nation of Israelites, who were blind and dead to the Truth and had paid no attention to the revelation of God, were entirely changed.   ABU0333

When He heard the Call from the Center of Fire and was seized by the rapture of the Almighty, He covered His face in fear, unable to look upon it, and fell unconscious from the Call of the Lord for eighty-one thousand eternal years. Then the grace of His Lord drew nigh unto Him, and the fragrance of reunion wafted over Him. When He recovered, He said: "Praise be unto Thee, O Thou Who hast brought me to life through the sweetness of Thy Call and hast raised me again through the spirit of Thy utterance, O Lord of all names!" Then He arose and stood before the Lord for nine thousand thousand years, humble and submissive, praising, mentioning, and glorifying in the inner depths of mystery.   BH00335
