Carmel raised its calls / With harp and flute and lute and oud   AB04402

Although He was a prisoner, He pitched His tent with glory on Mount Carmel.  ABU3124

Tonight they are holding the Feast of Elijah on the top of Mount Carmel in memory of his ascent to heaven in a chariot of fire.  ABU2271

How many prophets longed to be here in these days of God. Many Germans left their homeland and settled here on this mountain, where they awaited the arrival of the One promised in the Holy Bible. They wrote over their doors that the Beloved would soon come. Despite all these actions and expectations, they had no success  ABU3681


His Holiness, the Blessed Beauty, has pitched His tent on various spots on this mountain. The tent of Baha'u'llah has been raised on this Holy ground.  ABU2076

The Prophets and Holy Men always went into the wilderness to pray. Many of them walked upon Mount Carmel and communed with God.  ABU3486

By fate, this farman was later nullified because Baha'u'llah passed through the city gate and came up this very mountain - Carmel.  ABU1607

Mount Carmel is enveloped with the white mantle of spirituality. Its atmosphere is permeated with an indescribable peace and tranquility.   ABU1430

Some of the time Baha'u'llah would spend at the Mansion, and again, at the farm village of Mazra'ih; for a while He would sojourn in Haifa, and occasionally His tent would be pitched on the heights of Mount Carmel.  AB00002

How inspiring is the matchless panorama spread before one's view! How quiet and spiritual is its very atmosphere! This is the best season of Mount Carmel. The mountain covered with fragrant flowers, the bright sun shining upon it with its vital, life-giving rays  ABU2258

Today We have risen through the grace of God, the Lord of the worlds, and directed Ourselves to another place which We have made the Most Great Scene of Vision for mankind. When We arrived, We revealed that whereby the stones soared, the trees cried out, and the hearts of the righteous were drawn in rapture.   BH05451

I once lived in a cave on Mount Carmel. One day I went to the Carmelite Monastery and asked to see someone, saying I had a message to deliver. They refused to see me or hear my message. I said, 'I will put it in writing if you will read it.' They still refused, so I returned to 'Akka in great sadness, walking the whole distance of nine miles. ABU3082

The weather of Mount Carmel is fragrant and its earth is sweet. Its panorama of sea and land is very unique; its sun is all-glorious; its moon is all-beautiful and its stars are all-sparkling. Syria is a most wonderful country. It is a world in miniature. All the trees of the hot climate such as date-palms, oranges, mandarins etc as well as the trees of the cold climate such as walnuts, pines etc are found in Syria. Tiberias is famous for its hot weather, while Mount Lebanon is a cool summer resort.   ABU0978

In reality the air of Mount Carmel is most energizing. I have breathed in the air of many country-places and have seen many natural scenes but the air of this Mountain is most wholesome, most vitalizing and its scenery very entrancing. The purity of the air, the sublimity of the panorama and the beauty of the scene are united together on Mount Carmel, presenting to the eye a noble and inspiring spectacle of nature; especially now that this fine structure is built on its ascending slope containing the Holy remains of the Bab.  ABU1205

"The pavilion of the Lord will be pitched on the mountain and this was fulfilled. The pavilion of the Blessed Beauty was often pitched on Mount Carmel and the plain and hills around Acca while he was a prisoner."  ABU1810

We have purchased for thee a blessed plot of land which was the site of the Blessed Beauty's tent and which He would frequently visit when He was in Haifa. This land is situated in the most noble spot in Haifa from all directions, and when a house is built upon it, it will command views of the east, west, south, north, the sea, and Mount Carmel.  AB12825

For some time the Seat of the Throne was in the land of Haifa, and in most times the voice of nature was raised. We said: What aileth thee, O Nature, that We hear thy cries in the nights, thy lamentations in the days, and thy moaning at dawn? Thereupon she raised her voice, crying out and saying: O Sovereign of existence! The idolaters have sunk Thy crimson ark and have hamstrung Thy white She-camel, and they desire to extinguish Thy light. Therefore have my cries and the cries of all things been raised, and my lamentations and the lamentations of those in earth and heaven. O Supreme Being! I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy most sweet call and the scratching of Thy Most Exalted Pen to protect Thyself from the cannons of the enemies and the swords of the wicked ones. Verily, Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest, and in Thy grasp are the reins of all affairs of the first and the last. Repeatedly was this cry heard when We were engaged in revealing a new tablet, and mention of it hath been recorded in that blessed tablet. To this testifieth this Book that moveth and speaketh: There is no God but Me, the Single, the Powerful, the Commander, the All-Wise.  BH00165
 
