

He is the One Who hath aforetime raised up Muhammad and made Him a Messenger to all the worlds, and revealed unto Him the Furqan, having strengthened Him with the Spirit from His presence.  BB00085

At the time of Muhammad, He sanctioned war for the preservation of the lives of His followers. The laws of individual justice were confused and preliminary in the souls of men. Therefore, the law of general justice of the community was revealed by this Prophet. He commanded His followers to carry the Religion of God by the sword. When a man is about to take poison, it is right to dash the cup from his hand even with extreme violence. It will inflict injury but at the same time save his life. There must be a law to prevent the wolves , from destroying the lambs at such a period of religious history. That is why the Shepherd sanctioned such vigorous protection for the sheep. Behind such laws of a Manifestation there is always a supreme wisdom.  ABU2396

In any case, tonight is the night of the birth of the Prophet. The Muslims are celebrating His birth, and their celebration consists of thousand-year-old customs which they carry out according to their traditions, rules and practices. But in truth, this birth produced new effects in the world and beneficial results were obtained. This birth caused the condition of Asia to change and transform, moving from one state to another.  ABU0090

I hope they will awaken and become conscious, and at least realize that Muhammad appeared in Mecca when it was but a rocky tract - no trees, no vegetation, no greenery, no meadow, no agriculture, no industry - the dwelling place of savage Arab tribes. When Muhammad appeared from Mecca, Mecca became the Qiblih of Asia, Africa, and some regions of Europe, where all turn to pray, and this rocky tract became the annual center of the greatest gathering of men from Asia and Africa.  AB00699

And peace and blessings be upon Him and His family and companions who, in the Cause of God, the Lord of earth and heaven, consumed date pits - those servants whom poverty could not prevent from proclaiming the Cause, and whom the veils of the world could not withhold from the Ancient Lord. They arose and spoke with such steadfastness as did shake the very foundations of might and power, and caused the pillars of the pharaohs among men to tremble.  BH08173

This nobility was attained and made manifest through the Muhammadan Revelation and the Ahmadan Light. His grace caused dust to ascend above the heavens, and His mercy enabled the people of the earthly realm of creation to reach the highest Paradise. From the parched valley flowed the Euphrates of grace, and from the veiled Hijaz appeared the Morn of Revelation. Can any likeness be seen for this power, or any similitude be observed? Nay, by His very Self, the Truth! The place that was the abode of idols became the seat of the remembrance of the Lord of all beings.  BH01212

The Arab nation was in utmost degradation, extremely bloodthirsty and savage - so savage that fathers would bury their daughters alive. See how savage they were! They were warring tribes in the Arabian desert, fighting each other, plundering each other's property, taking women and children captive, killing each other, and taking as many wives as they wanted. Muhammad appeared among them and educated these savage tribes. He endowed them with noble qualities, eliminated bloodshed among them, taught them, and elevated them until they ruled four regions of the world.  ABU0039


Through the appearance of Mohammad and his disciples, the Arabian desert became the mother of all the countries, the Kaaba for millions of souls and the object of veneration by all mankind.  ABU1595


Consider the days of the Apostle of God [Muhammad]. On the day of His ascension, nearly one hundred thousand souls or more from surrounding regions were present in Medina and its environs. Most of these individuals were considered companions in custom, for they had associated with Him. Nevertheless, those who acted upon His teachings and were God-fearing were found to be few in number.  BH00721

Then We sent after him Muhammad, the Messenger of God, with a perspicuous Book, and through him We distinguished between truth and falsehood, if ye be of them that know. We made him a mercy unto all the worlds, for whenever tribulation and adversity touched him in the path of God, he remained patient within himself.  BH00705

Meanwhile GOD sent Mohammed, who was also a man without learning and he raised up these savages to a higher state of civilization. And while Mohammed was unlettered and held no intercourse with nations, and knew not the laws-notwithstanding all this, he guided these people to GOD. Mohammed brought them up by spiritual teaching. He revealed the Koran and organized the law of GOD among them.   ABU0272


In the Quran it is mentioned that seven tribes came before the Secret of Being and Essence of Purpose, His Holiness Muhammad, peace be upon Him. Each made his faith contingent upon a miracle. One said: "Bring down a book from heaven." Another said: "Cast down a fragment of heaven to earth." Another said: "Make a spring to flow." Another said: "Ascend to heaven." Another said: "Show us the Lord with His hosts." Another said: "Produce a treasure." Another said: "Bring forth the lofty paradise." In reply to all of these He declares: "Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I aught but a mortal messenger?" Nevertheless, I beseech the Divine favors that your desires may be fulfilled and your needs be granted.  AB08407

Reflect upon the days of the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake.  BH09152

His Holiness Mohamad lived 23 years and all his writings are put together in the form of the Book you have in your hands.  ABU2445

His Holiness Muhammad came here also. He came here twice, once when he was eleven years old and once when he was twenty-eight.  ABU2010

This is the Day which the Seal of the Prophets--may the life of all else be sacrificed for His sake--gave unto all as a glad-tiding.   BH07532

Muhammad, the Chosen One, whom God made the Dawning-Place of His most excellent names and the Manifestation of His most exalted attributes   BH05265

this station was besought of God, glorified be His majesty, by the Seal of the Prophets in His words "Lord, increase my wonderment in Thee."  BH09673

The blessed Cause is proclaimed and proofs are established demonstrating the power of the Greatest Name, and even the power of the Holy Spirit of the Seal of the Prophets, the mighty Messenger [Muhammad], is clearly and conclusively proven. From the day of the appearance of the Prophet until now, no mention of good was made of Him here [America] - people would only speak of Him with contempt. It was impossible to mention His name in churches and temples. Now, praise be to God, through the power of the Blessed Beauty, the truth of the Seal of the Prophets and Guide of all paths is proven in great churches, and the listeners remain silent, with not a soul raising any objection. AB02617

And blessings and peace be upon him whose light shone forth from the horizon of Batha, and through whose appearance the regions were adorned...   BH02579

He in Whose palm the pebble spoke and to Whom the leaves and the date-stone bore witness, the King of the chosen ones and the Goal of the Prophets   BH02580

And verily the first to believe in Me was Muhammad the Messenger of God, then Ali, then those who were witnesses after him, then the Gates of Guidance   BB00273

by the light that shone forth from the horizon of Hijaz, and whose radiance illuminated both Yathrib and Batha, and all that dwell in the world of creation  BH05270

Thou art He Who united hearts when Muhammad Thy Messenger came, and through them Thou didst conquer Thy cities and Thy realms and Thy lands with spears and swords.  BH02645

And there is none like unto Muhammad His Messenger, neither before nor after, nor in all the worlds. God has indeed chosen him in the Mother Book above all the former and latter ones.   BB00476

I beseech Thee by the Beloved (Muhammad) - concerning whom the tongue of Thy power spoke "Were it not for Thee, I would not have created the celestial spheres" - and by His family and companions  BH08515

Our Lord said the Muhammadans were accustomed to think Mahomet the greater because of his title "Seal of the Prophets," but in the time of Jesus spirituality and spiritual life was far greater.   ABU3507

And prayers and peace be upon him through whom Yathrib was honored and the Hijaz smiled - verily he is the Lord through whom God's power was manifested throughout the lands and among the servants  BH02249

He is the Lamp of Guidance among mankind, the Sign of the Ancient of Days amidst the nations...God made Him the source of His revelation, the repository of His knowledge, and the manifestation of His laws.   BH02925

until He sealed the Messengers with Muhammad, His Apostle, revealed unto Him His Book of Truth which was the true Furqan, and in it called His creation unto Himself, making him the Manifestation of His Divinity  BH00377

I bear witness that Muhammad - Thy blessings be upon him and his family - is Thy servant whom Thou didst bring into being and choose for Thyself, singling him out for Thy Cause and accepting him for Thy knowledge.   BB00152

Mohammed through his power was enabled to elevate a nation, for on his teachings a mighty civilization was constructed in the Arabian peninsula, the influence of which, as recorded in history, extended as far west as Spain   ABU1653

The time of Muhammad (peace be upon Him) arrived and His Light dawned, but in a desert of sand, devoid of water and vegetation, far from the might of kings, where great power was absent and the penetrating forces of other kingdoms had no influence.  ABU0090

Prayers and peace be upon the Seal of His Prophets through whom was raised the banner of Divine Unity and the Tree of Oneness spoke forth and the fragrance of the garment wafted and the breeze of holiness stirred, Who spoke forth with the wise Qur'an   BH02824

Praise be to the Ancient Lord Who has perfumed the world with the fragrance that wafted by His command from the direction of Hijaz. And blessings and peace be upon Him through Whom the banner of Truth was raised and the standard of metaphor was lowered   BH06023

Reflect upon the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake. He had five male children who ascended, whereupon the idolaters began to gloat. And when He remained without issue, they called Him - God forbid - "abtar" (cut off).   BH01778

Suddenly the Muhammadan light shone forth and established the foundation of divine justice. The Arabian desert became illumined. The divine law raised its banner in the wilderness of knowledge. Savage tribes were educated and progress was achieved in God's law.  ABU0633

His Holiness the Prophet educated the desert-dwelling Arabs until they reached the utmost degree of progress in all stations of existence, such that Europe's current advancement was in reality derived from Arab Spain and the Arab tribes of Syria, Egypt and Baghdad.  ABU1031

In answer to all He said: Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I aught but a mortal messenger? Similarly in the clear text of the Quran He says: If I had knowledge of the unseen, I should have secured abundance for myself, and I know not what shall befall me or you tomorrow.  AB00766

Muhammad - may the spirit of all else but Him be His sacrifice - came and summoned all who dwell on earth to the highest horizon. He brought the Book and established the Path, made manifest the Balance, and announced unto all the Day of God and gave them the glad-tidings.  BH09208

The first to pledge allegiance to me, as ye shall see in your Books, was Muhammad the Messenger of God, then Ali, then those who were witnesses after him, then the Gates of Guidance - will ye not be thankful? Say: O people! This is the matter wherewith ye were promised.  BB00004

until the chain of Prophethood culminated in the Lord of the world and Master of nations - upon Him be God's blessings and peace, and upon Him be God's grace, glory and favors. Through Him was inscribed the seal, and He was made the Herald of that which was hidden in divine knowledge  BH02971

I bear witness that Muhammad is Thy servant and Thy Messenger, whom Thou didst send from Thy presence unto all things, and made him a Messenger from Thee to all things. Thou didst ordain for him successors from the letters of his own self, and witnesses who were created from his light.  BB00011

Through a single word He created the world and guided it, and appointed the best of creation as Guide, adorning Him with the robe of "Blessed be God, the best of creators" and crowning Him with "Verily He is the Seal of the Prophets." He is the all-embracing Word and He is the Guide of all.   BH04201

Your Beloved Muhammad, Who possesses such glory, is more submissive than anyone possessing submission and more humble than anyone possessing humility. None owns this glory except Him. And despite His lofty glory before Thee, He is indeed humble and prostrate before Thee, submissive and low.   BB00133

I testify for Muhammad the Messenger of God that God has selected him from the innermost realm of eternity at a station He adorned, and made him stand in His own station in delivering and executing, since "No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is over all vision" and He is the Subtle, the All-Aware.   BB00214

And as for the noble Messenger, Muhammad the Chosen One, upon him be prayer and peace - God sent him in a valley without cultivation or plants, among scattered tribes and warring peoples and nations fallen into the depths of ignorance and blindness, not knowing who called them, not knowing a letter of the Book...   ABU0168

At the mention of His name Yathrib trembled and the Valley of Mecca overflowed - the Prophet of Mercy, the Remover of Sorrows, the Dispeller of the darkness of error. Thus did the earth shine with the light of its Lord - the Seal of the Prophets, the One addressed by We sent thee not save as a mercy to the worlds.  AB00967

He Who was named Muhammad in the kingdom of names - and upon His family and companions whom God made the lamps of His guidance, the banners of His victory, the signs of His Cause, the manifestations of His power and the evidences of His might. Through them God conquered the world and His Cause flowed among the nations.  BH01503

Therefore, O God, send blessings upon Muhammad superior to what Thou hast bestowed upon any of Thy creation, and upon him what Thou hast specially conferred upon any of Thy servants, and more exalted than what Thou hast graciously bestowed upon any of Thy chosen ones, and more glorious than what Thou hast honored any of Thy sincere ones   BB00386

All praise, sanctified beyond the mention of those who praise or are praised, befitteth that Dawning-Place of the Light of Oneness, His Holiness Muhammad, Whose Law is an impregnable fortress and Whose ordinances are the guardians of the Faith. Through Him was the standard of Divine Unity raised aloft and the decree of detachment made firm.  BH00715

Muhammad never fought against the Christians; on the contrary, He treated them with consideration and accorded them complete freedom. In Najran there lived a community of Christians, and they were under His care and protection. Muhammad said: Should anyone infringe upon their rights, I myself will be his enemy and will charge him before God.  AB00035

O God! Thou art the Creator of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them. Thou didst create Muhammad - Thy blessings be upon him - by Thy command, and didst choose him for Thy covenant, and didst select him for Thy remembrance, and didst single him out for Thy providence, and didst place him above all Thy Prophets and Messengers   BB00386

It was among such tribes that Muhammad was sent forth. For thirteen years He suffered at their hands every conceivable tribulation, till at last He fled the city and emigrated to Medina. And yet, far from desisting, these people joined forces, raised an army, and attacked with the aim of exterminating every man, woman and child among His followers.  AB00035

Of the people of the earth, the inhabitants of Arabia were in the greatest ignorance and darkness and were following every wind that blew. They were so degraded that it was a common practice among them to bury their children alive. But all changed for them when Mahomet appeared amongst them and they ascended from the lowest condition to a very high one.   ABU0333

He adorned the beginning with the ornament of the seal, and We made him the sovereign of existence and named him Ahmad and Muhammad, the Praised One, the radiant and effulgent Light shining from the heaven of God's loving-kindness. Upon him and upon his family and companions, through whom the servants were humbled and the lands were conquered, be the glory of God.  BH01323

So it was with the Arabian nations who, being uncivilized, were oppressed by the Persian and Greek governments. When the Light of Muhammad shone forth all Arabia was brightened. These oppressed and degraded peoples became enlightened and cultured; so much so, indeed, that other nations imbibed Arabian civilization from Arabia. This was the proof of Muhammad's divine mission.  AB01160

And I bear witness in this my station upon the surface of this mountain that Muhammad is His servant and His Messenger, whom He hath chosen from the midst of the apex of creation through the manifestation of His sovereignty, and whom He hath clothed with the garment of grace for the revelation of His grandeur, and made him unique among all peers and equals in the kingdoms of His earth and heaven  BB00090

Even as the Apostle of God -- upon Him be blessing and salutation -- was able to reconcile the warring, the antagonistic and barbarous tribes of the desert and to gather them together beneath the tabernacle of unity. As a result of this unity the nomadic tribes of Arabia achieved great advancement, raised the banner of excellence in both material and spiritual spheres and thus attained imperishable glory.  AB00287

By virtue of divine wisdom, heavenly grace, and manifest mysteries, it was ordained that the bearer of this primary grace should receive his mission after completing forty years, remaining thereafter in Mecca for thirteen years before migrating to Medina where he dwelt for ten years. He remained in this world for sixty-three years and was taken on a Monday, after twelve nights had passed of the first month.  BB00014

Muhammad appeared as a Prophet among such a people. He educated these barbarous tribes, lifted them out of their ignorance and savagery and put an end to the continuous strife and hatred which had existed among them. He established agreement and reconciliation among them, unified them and taught them to look upon each other as brothers. Through His training they advanced rapidly in prestige and civilization.  ABU0280

He Who raised Him up and sent Him forth with the truth is verily the Lamp of Guidance amongst mankind, the Sign of the Ancient of Days amidst the nations, the Dawning-Place of His most beautiful names and the Dayspring of His most exalted attributes--He Who was named Muhammad in the kingdom of creation. God made Him the Source of His Revelation, the Repository of His Knowledge, and the Manifestation of His Laws.  BH11714

From another horizon we see Muhammad, the Prophet of Arabia, appearing. You may not know that the first address of Muhammad to His tribe was the statement, "Verily, Moses was a Prophet of God, and the Torah is a Book of God. Verily, O ye people, ye must believe in the Torah, in Moses and the prophets. Ye must accept all the prophets of Israel as valid." In the Qur'an, the Muslim Bible, there are seven statements or repetitions of the Mosaic narrative, and in all the historic accounts Moses is praised. Muhammad announces that Moses was the greatest Prophet of God, that God guided Him in the wilderness of Sinai, that through the light of guidance Moses hearkened to the summons of God, that He was the Interlocutor of God and the bearer of the tablet of the Ten Commandments, that all the contemporary nations of the world arose against Him and that eventually Moses conquered them, for falsehood and error are ever overcome by truth. There are many other instances of Muhammad's confirmation of Moses. I am mentioning but a few. Consider that Muhammad was born among the savage and barbarous tribes of Arabia, lived among them and was outwardly illiterate and uninformed of the Holy Books of God. The Arabian people were in the utmost ignorance and barbarism. They buried their infant daughters alive, considering this to be an evidence of a valorous and lofty nature. They lived in bondage and serfdom under the Persian and Roman governments and were scattered throughout the desert, engaged in continual strife and bloodshed. When the light of Muhammad dawned, the darkness of ignorance was dispelled from the deserts of Arabia. In a short period of time those barbarous peoples attained a superlative degree of civilization which, with Baghdad as its center, extended as far westward as Spain and afterward influenced the greater part of Europe. What proof of Prophethood could be greater than this, unless we close our eyes to justice and remain obstinately opposed to reason?   ABU0015

I bear witness that Muhammad is Thy servant and Thy Messenger whom Thou didst choose for Thyself and select for Thy Cause and single out for Thy Message and elect for Thy Revelation and prefer for Thy sovereignty. Thou didst entrust unto Him the affairs of Thy kingdom. He hath no equal in Thy knowledge, no likeness in Thy Book, no counterpart in the kingdom of earth and heaven, no peer among the manifestations of Thy creation, and no match among the daysprings of Thy invention.  BB00011

I beseech Thee, O my God, in this darkest night, the sun of nights in the most enduring months, to send Thy blessings upon Muhammad, the Blessed Tree in the realm of divinity, the Holy Leaf in the thicket of omnipotence, the Blessed Branches in the stations of sovereignty and dominion, the Goodly Fruits in the trees of the earthly realm, and the Manifest Lights in the fragments of the tablets of ruby - the Chosen, the Beloved, the Elected, the Sent One, the Mighty, the Appointed, and the Outpoured Water.   BB00176

And then as to Mahomet. We do not consider diverse traditions, either for him or against him. We consider what has been shown forth by him. Thus we perceive that the Koran is full of knowledge and wisdom. In the Arabian deserts, where the lamp of enlightenment was thoroughly extinguished, a man appeared. He educated the Arabian nation, then in the last degree of savagery, and he improved it in all its conditions until in five hundred years it became superior to other nations. It is clear that such a man was a world-educator.  ABU0524

Praise befitteth the Desired One of the world and the Lord of all nations, Who illumined the world of existence with the Muhammadan Light. He is the Herald of the meeting with divine manifestations on the Day of Resurrection, and He is the Manifestation of the infinite names and attributes. In truth, the knowledge of the world is but a trace of His knowledge, and the understanding of nations is but a fruit of the Tree of His understanding. The appearance and continuance of the world hath been and is through His blessed existence.  BH00559

All praise and honor be to the Dayspring of Divine wisdom, the Dawning Point of Revelation (Muhammad), and to the holy line of His descendants, since, by the widespread rays of His consummate wisdom, His universal knowledge, those savage denizens of Yathrib (Medina) and Batha (Mecca), miraculously, and in so brief a time, were drawn out of the depths of their ignorance, rose up to the pinnacles of learning, and became centers of arts and sciences and human perfections, and stars of felicity and true civilization, shining across the horizons of the world.  AB00004

Exalted be God, the Single, the One, Who sent forth him who was named Muhammad, through whom He adorned the world and revived the nations. Through him the dust proclaimed: "The Manifestation of the Lord of Lords hath come!" The trees spoke: "He Who relateth from God concerning the beginning and the end hath appeared!" The pebbles in his hand bore witness, the date-stone cried out in His name, the atoms circled round Him, and all created things circumambulated a House that God had made blessed for His servants, a point of pilgrimage for His creation, and a refuge for His creatures.   BH01397


Originally we were Mohammedan, but since the declaration of Baha'u'llah we love all humanity.   ABU0365


Through the spreading and circulating of falsehoods in these regions the hearts of certain people have harbored them. I spoke of what I said in Europe and America and of what was spread in the papers. I explained to them that it was not as they understood it. For instance, they believed that we were the enemies of his holiness Mohammed, the Messenger, and yet, many addresses had been given in the Christian churches and in the synagogues of the Jews proving the validity of his holiness the Messenger.  ABU0143


When he said, that in America he established the validity of the sonship of Christ is several Jewish synagogues, they looked at each other in credulous amazement. "Why do you think Mohamad was a prophet?" they asked. He gave them logical and satisfying reasons.  ABU2893

Then God in His Mercy sent to us a prophet from amongst our own people. He admonished us to worship the one True God, to leave behind polytheism, to keep our words, to practice piety and chastity, to believe in the divine mission of Moses, Jesus Christ, and other prophets and fear the Lord of Hosts.  ABU0312

How was it that when His Holiness Mohamed appeared in that great chersonese or Arabian peninsula, a mighty spiritual revolution shook that empire-desert to its centre? With what power did the Prophet of Allah change the character of the primitive, savage Arabs, reformed their social customs, unified the heterogeneous, independent nomadic tribes and created in their midst a spiritual democracy? With what Light did he illumine the waste Sahara?  ABU0638

This is what Muhammad taught His people concerning Jesus and Moses, and He reproached them for their lack of faith in these great Teachers, and taught them the lessons of truth and tolerance. Muhammad was sent from God to work among a people as savage and uncivilized as the wild beasts...Among these half animal people Muhammad was sent with His divine Message. He taught the people that idol worship was wrong, but that they should reverence Christ, Moses and the Prophets. Under His influence they became a more enlightened and civilized people and arose from the degraded state in which He found them.  ABU0072

We are the people of the Quran, we are believers in the Messenger of God, peace be upon Him. We are firm in the Covenant and Testament, and in this path we sacrifice our lives. We believe in all the Prophets, making no distinction between any of His Messengers. For our faith is real, not metaphorical; it is based on investigation, not blind imitation. If oppressors should attack us with drawn swords and say Either deny Muhammad, the Messenger of God, peace be upon Him, or we will behead you with this sword, we would cry out under the sword: We bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of God, that He is the Greatest Sign and the Word that comprehends all divine meanings, that He is the supreme gift mentioned in all the scriptures, psalms and tablets. May my soul be sacrificed for Him!  AB01560





They attained the greatest degree of virtues, dispelling the darkness of vices, becoming a center for divine inspirations and a mirror for heavenly outpourings   AB03557

The appearance of Rumi and his book, the Masnavi, was like unto a column erected to buttress a tilting wall, enabling the dispensation of Islam to extend twelve hundred years.  ABU3757



Among the great religious systems of the world is Islam. About three hundred million people acknowledge it. For more than a thousand years there has been enmity and strife between Muslims and Christians, owing to misunderstanding and spiritual blindness. If prejudices and imitations were abandoned, there would be no enmity whatever between them, and these hundreds of millions of antagonistic religionists would adorn the world of humanity by their unity.   ABU0027



Among the clear texts of the Qur'an is this blessed verse which says: "Verily, those who believe, and those who are Jews, and Christians, and Sabeans - whoever believes in God and the Last Day and does good deeds - their reward is with their Lord, and no fear shall come upon them, neither shall they grieve."   ABU1743



God hath caused the religion of Islam to endure in such wise that seven kings therein have professed the faith of Muhammad in this day. How many since the days of Muhammad until now have come and returned unto their Lord, and until this day do they progress in their stations according to their deeds. God hath manifested Me in the year one thousand two hundred and seventy after the appearance of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, with proofs wherewith God had previously manifested Muhammad, the Apostle of God, that those who have been given the Qur'an might not be able to differ.  BB00063

It is recorded that when signs of ascension appeared upon the blessed countenance of the Prophet of God, spirit of all beings be a sacrifice unto Him -- that is to say, when His radiant face became flushed -- He said: Bring paper and pen that I may write something whereby you will never go astray after Me and may follow its guidance. Umar was present and said: The Book of God is sufficient for us. Then some of the kindred said: Obey His command [and bring paper and pen]. The second Caliph responded with God forbid, saying inna'r-rajula la-yahjur -- meaning that the intense illness was causing the Prophet to speak in delirium.  AB00292


A proper history was never written in Islam. The best history is that of Abu al-Fida, although it is brief.  ABU2146

There are those pure Baha'is who believe in all the divine religions and subscribe to the truth of Islam.  ABU3731


Consider how the Arab peoples were in the utmost ignorance, nay, blind and deaf, and like unto the beasts, wandering in the Arabian desert in their winter and summer migrations, distinguished by the most abhorrent deeds and the most repugnant habits. When the Beauty of Muhammad dawned from the horizon of Yathrib and Bat'ha, the religion of God manifested such power and might that in a brief span these ignorant peoples became the foremost among the learned in all sciences and arts, and perfected the deficiencies in the sciences and arts of the philosophers.   AB00076


today the greatest justification for the intervention of powerful civilized nations in other countries is precisely this: that to witness a country and nation in a state of chaos and anarchy despite civilization and capability, and to remain at peace, is far from justice and outside the duty of civilized and educated people. Therefore the hand of politics must be extended and one must charge forth in the arena of power and might. Despite this, when the name of the religion of the Chief of Messengers is mentioned, they speak with utmost prejudice and out of extreme bias express such expectation and regret, saying: "If only such a Messenger had not been raised up among the Arab tribes, and had not cut short the aggressive hand of the parties of ignorance and savagery, had not laid the foundation of happiness, and through the blessing of His guidance and sufficiency the signs of civilization had not reached from Asia to the bounds of Europe!" ABU1441


During the Middle Ages, while Europe had sunk to the lowest depths of barbarity, the Arabs excelled all other nations of the earth in sciences and crafts, mathematics, civilization, governance, and other arts.  AB00035


The Arabs then excelled all the peoples of the world in science and the arts, in industry and invention, in philosophy, government and moral character. And truly, the rise of this brutish and despicable element, in such a short interval, to the supreme heights of human perfection, is the greatest demonstration of the rightfulness of the Lord Muhammad's Prophethood.  AB00004

Furthermore, they could never have civilized the desert-dwelling wild ones of Arabia so thoroughly as to empower them to conquer great cities and transform the hearts of differing peoples, to the extent that that once brutal people had become enabled to so quickly establish the schools of Andalusia -- schools which the denizens of Europe attended to learn the hallmarks of civilization, and returned to the West to promote the arts and sciences they had studied.  ABU3688

Baghdad became the center of learning and Bukhara the source of the arts, and knowledge raised such a standard in Andalusia that all the learned ones of Europe came to the schools of Cordova and Cordoba to acquire the light of knowledge from the lamp of Islamic schools. Among them was a youth from Europe who studied sciences and arts under the Islamic divines in the schools of Cordoba, and when he returned to Europe, he achieved such prominence that in a short time he was elected Pope and ruled over all the regions of Europe.   AB00076
