There are many meanings in each word of the Revelation.  ABU2100

For the divine words there are infinite interpretations, yet none is aware of them save God.  BH00004

The Holy Book and especially the Revelation of Saint John has several meanings and many interpretations.   AB01034

The ages of those ancient prophets as recorded in the old Testament is symbolic. It has a spiritual interpretation.  ABU3368

"Other sheep I have which are not of this fold." He said this meant others outside the tribe of Israel: Europe, Asia, etc.   ABU0898

Since they did not understand the meaning of the Holy Book, they rejected the Spirit of God (Christ), objected and shunned Him   AB01590

Yet the turbaned ones say that tree was a physical plant in dusty soil, though in the sacred text it is described as a green tree.   AB05780

Were We to interpret but one letter of the Book, it would lead to an entire world and the interpretation of that letter would have no end.   BH05630

show me, where does the great Master Jesus speak of the "Wrath of God"? But rather of the all-consuming love of the Father for His lost son!   ABU3429

But the heedless ones are engaged in idle talk and play, having no share of the secrets of the Preserved Tablet and the Outspread Parchment.   AB03841

The fish represents the spiritual meaning of these Words. The basketful that remained is the superabundant teaching gathered from the Words.   ABU0898

"As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of man be lifted up," that the religion of Christ shall be known in the world.  ABU1464

Know thou that for this celestial verse, this subtle fruit, this divine melody, and this heavenly pearl there are infinite meanings unto infinity.  BH00267

speaking the secrets of the Gospel and the mysteries of the Bible and the allusions of the Koran and the explanation of the Words of the Merciful One.  AB05900

Blessed be the pen and fingers, for though they appear as nothingness, yet a hundred thousand interpretations, explanations and meanings are true of them.   BH00935

To this Thy servant give the understanding of the Old Testament and the New and enable her to discover the real meaning and the secret mysteries of those verses  AB11304

This pearl of brief utterance which hath appeared from the ocean is a brevity wherein infinite worlds lie concealed, and likewise the realms of meaning and utterance.  BH01295

Glory be to Him Who has deposited in each letter of His letters a book, and in each intention of His loved ones deeds which none can reckon save His all-encompassing knowledge.  BH01819

We have set forth therein a matter which none hath discovered, and We have turned therein the verses as a remembrance from Our presence unto those who have believed in God and His signs   BH05171

"When Mohammed put forth His claim, a great multitude of the disciples of Christ believed in Him as the man who put forward the claim of being the Comforter mentioned in St. John 16:13."  ABU2884

And We have revealed unto thee from what God hath concealed within the inmost reality of this verse, that perchance the people may believe in God and His verses with true and mighty faith.  BB00002

For each letter thereof hath its interpretation, and each interpretation its inner meaning, and each inner meaning yet deeper meanings, and symbols and allusions unto whatsoever God willeth.   BH01113

In this Faith there are no hidden mysteries or esoteric allusions. The path of the Cause is straight. I too, in the position of Interpreter, have explained and written whatever was necessary.   ABU1268

Although for this blessed verse which was sent down from the heaven of divine will there are many meanings, yet one manifestation from the sun of its meanings dawned after the acquisition of this land  BH07445

Only the Decalogue and a few other utterances are [from] Moses, the rest is written by Ezra, the priest. With a critical, spiritual eye we can easily distinguish the heavenly words from the human ideas.   ABU2493

The passage explains that Deuteronomy 15 refers to Muhammad, not Christ, since it speaks of raising a prophet from "among their brethren" (the Ishmaelites) rather than from among the Israelites themselves  AB12278

And whoso purifieth the sense of fairness from the catarrh of hatred shall surely find the fragrance of truth from these missives even as one findeth the musk-like fragrance, and shall be of the assured ones.   BH01066

There was mention of the abrogating and abrogated. Recite the verse of the Qur'an which states: "Whatever verse We abrogate or cause to be forgotten, We bring a better one or one similar." This answer suffices.  AB03666

Now reflect which are the decisive verses of God and which the ambiguous ones, and thou shalt know those who took the ambiguous verses and cast the decisive ones behind their backs and were among the polytheists.  BH00004

Glory be to God! Though the mysteries of creation have been inscribed by the Pen of Power upon every leaf, every stone, and upon every countenance among the temples of existence, yet all remain heedless and veiled.  BH10820

In every station it is known by a different name and described by different attributes. All the most beautiful names and most exalted attributes circle round it, and all stations have been and shall be through its name.   BH00318

thou shalt understand the meanings of the Holy Book...At that time, thou shalt discover all the mysteries and symbols of the Holy Book, the gates of meaning shall be opened before thy face, and divine secrets shall be revealed   AB05119

You had asked about the interpretation of the blessed verse. By your precious life, papers are pouring in from all over the world like torrential rain, therefore a detailed explanation is not possible. I will mention it briefly.   AB02699

Were the books of the world of reality to appear in the realm of gathering and resurrection, numerous volumes would be found containing your mention... A hundred thousand worlds of mention and utterance lie concealed in this station.  BH02987

Know thou that this knowledge is the sister of Prophethood in the temple of Lordship and an attribute of Divinity in the temple of Oneness. None shall comprehend its knowledge save whom God willeth. Verily He is the Mighty, the Wise.   BB00175

As for the reference to the inner meanings of the words of the Bab, may my soul be his sacrifice, the Truth hath caused the separate Point, which is the effusion from this Most Great Sea, to speak according to God's revelation unto him thereby.  BB00237

when meanings are clothed in the garment of every word, it is as though the words are complete in themselves, while in every moment they have manifestations after manifestations, such that they shall never be exhausted throughout the eternity of God   BH02610

The only true Explainer of the Book of God is the Holy Spirit, for no two minds are alike, no two can comprehend alike, no two can speak alike. That is to say, from the mere human standpoint of interpretation there could be neither truth nor agreement.  ABU0147

Know thou that whatsoever the Mirror of Eternity hath interpreted in the words of God is truth, wherein there is no doubt. None may say 'why' or 'wherefore', nor interpret from their own selves, for all this is associating partners with God in His Book.  BH04151

The historical accounts in the Torah are not from Moses, but from Ezra. Its laws are from Moses, and the proof of this is that it writes of Moses' death, even saying "Moses said this" and "Moses did that." It is evident that the speaker is another person.   ABU1921

If We declare it to be water, We behold the hearts of men consumed by it, and if We say it is fire, it hath illumined all lands with its radiant and gleaming light. Can anyone truly know it as it deserveth to be known? Nay, by the Beauty of the All-Glorious!  BH01744


Know thou that these holy verses and heavenly sounds having meanings that are outer (zahir) and inner (batin) and also the inner of the inner (batin al-batin) and so forth endlessly. For the words of God are mirrors encompassing (muhitah) the forms (suwar) of all things.  AB00007

The Torah consists of commandments that Moses, peace be upon him, gave and which historians recorded. As is clear from the Torah itself, in its final book there is even history after Moses describing what happened after him. It is obvious that the historian was someone else.   AB00338

As it spoke forth, there rose above the horizon of its utterance a Sun of such effulgent splendour that, overshadowed by its radiance, the celestial sun grew dark; then it cried out: The brow of seventy hath been adorned with the diadem of forty and united with the seven before ten  BH01217

In one sense it is interpreted as divine knowledge and heavenly allusions that were hidden in His knowledge, sealed with His seal, and treasured in the pavilion of His protection. In another sense it is interpreted as commands and ordinances, and in yet another as wisdom and exposition.  BH02664

O My beloved! The river flows and the ocean surges and the sun shines forth, yet few indeed are the seekers and rare are they to find. And so must it be, for not every sightless one is worthy of the pearls of inner meaning, nor is every witless one capable of receiving this precious gem.   BH00172

Each letter of the verses that were revealed in the latter days in the Land of Mystery and likewise on the way, doth in itself proclaim and testify. Yet these veiled people were not worthy to hear even a whisper, much less to hearken unto the Call that was raised from the Kingdom of utterance.  BH00581

And from this verse that says in the Torah that the Spirit of God was like a bird above the water - what is meant is the water of divine knowledge which is the cause of heavenly life. And when it says "Let us create man in Our image" - what is meant is the image of the divine names and attributes  ABU2591

But in the outward path, these seeds of meaning are not devoid of saying either from your Lord to your Lord, or from your Lord to yourself, or from yourself to your Lord, or from your Lord to another, or from yourself to another, or from the station of limitation which is other than you to another.   BB00075

The verse hath a subtle inner meaning: the star is the first element of the Simple Name, the moon its second element, and the sun its third element... When the Moon of Prophethood, which represents the station of mind, set, there rose the Sun, which represents the station of divine authority and soul.   BB00226

"O people! Discard vain imaginings, reject the interpretations of those who adhere to perplexing verses, and cling firmly unto the perspicuous verses. Verily, these are the straight path, the guiding light, the solid edifice, the fortified shelter that protect you against the assaults of the heretics."   AB04985

Divine things are too deep to be expressed by common words. The heavenly teachings are expressed in parable in order to be understood and preserved for ages to come. When the spiritually minded dive deeply into the ocean of their meaning they bring to the surface the pearls of their inner significance.   ABU1808

Both meanings are fitting and agreeable and wondrous, indicating that the cups of perpetual love of God will circulate like teacups in Gokchay, or that the river of the Kingdom and the stream of the Realm of Might - Gokchay meaning heavenly stream - will flow and surge like a divine flood in that region.  AB05679

The inner aspects of religious law are true without any doubt, but none comprehend this except those well-grounded in knowledge. The outward conforms to the inward - whoever believes in the outward but not the inward has disbelieved, and whoever does not believe in the outward has associated partners with God   BB00518

For instance there is a text in the Bible that says, 'I am the bread of heaven.' In Persian this expression is very exquisite, but not in the translation. This is the word which Christ himself spoke. It is very exquisite, but when read in Arabic it is not so. Those words which come from the Blessed Lips have a different power.   ABU0305

God willing, you will ever strive with the utmost endeavor to diffuse the divine fragrances, expound the proofs and meanings, spread abroad the glad tidings of the Holy Books, uncover the allusions hidden in the symbolic words of the Prophets, unveil the signs embedded in the essence of the verses, and explain these to the seekers.  AB07757

And verily what We have taught thee concerning the meaning of the verse is in the way of the outward, and if thou desirest the path of the inward, then know from the mention of the Qiblih the green pillar of the Throne, which is the Guardianship wherein the believers were certain concerning the Family of God, the Imams of the Faith.  BB00006

In answer to a question as to why in the Old Testament the prophets and saints hurled denunciations against wicked people and prayed for their utter destruction, our Lord said that those prophets denunciations and curses were not directed against the people, toward whom they had no animosity, but against their bad and evil qualities.  ABU1043

As for what you asked about the second verse in the sixth chapter of Genesis, what is meant by the "sons" are those who cast aside their desires and found their guidance and became spiritually related to the Glorious Lord, the God of Israel. And what is meant by the "daughters" are the divine inspirations that proceed from the servants   AB01022

But the long lives mentioned in certain books and narratives have a different basis. For instance, it was a custom in former times to mention a dynasty or family by the name of one person only. However, the people in the following ages thought that the length of time that a family survived was the length of the life of that family's founder.  ABU2724

Rather, everything in it has a manifestation, and its manifestation has a manifestation unto infinity. Through it sharpen your vision and extend the hand of your insight, for were the ocean ink for the letters of this surih, the ocean would be spent, even as His words, exalted be His mention, state: even if We brought the like thereof to aid.  BB00105

And verily I saw in a dream as though I had come to one of the gardens of Paradise wherein were trees and plants, and I saw all the leaves of those trees and plants looking at me, each with two eyes - the gaze of reason - being both leaf and animal. This is but a brief allusion to the life of the Hereafter, and the matter is greater, far greater.  BB00023

Therefore, in order that there may be no discord, all of the believers in the truth must not mention me except as Abdul-Baha, the Servant of God. The essential thing is love. I must love you and you must love me. Such is the meaning of the truth, while untruth means rancor, discord and hatred. All else save love is merely outwardly uttered words.   ABU1181

Despite the fact that the Manifestation of Truth is explicitly stated in the Qur'an without interpretation or explanation - His blessed and exalted words "And thy Lord shall come with angels rank on rank" - they doubt this and waver and make weak interpretations, and cling to traditions that are extremely unstable, and abandon the explicit text and oppose it  AB00585

The Prophets gave consideration to the level of education of the peoples in their exposition concerning the creation of the world; their reports are therefore adapted to the respective time and culture and have to be interpreted symbolically. Therefore, for example, a day of creation of the Mosaic report of creation may not be understood as a day of 24 hours.  ABU0017

Know thou that the words of God and His Messengers possess meanings beyond meanings, interpretations beyond interpretations, and symbols, allusions, evidences and wisdom without end. No one shall comprehend even a single letter of their meanings except whom thy Lord willeth, for their meanings are their treasures which they have stored in the treasuries of words.  BH00031

Know thou that the Unseen mentioned in this noble verse hath both outer and inner stations. In its outer linguistic meaning, the Unseen is that which is hidden from sight. In its inner meaning, it can be interpreted at times as the Unseen of unseens, the Countenance of the Beloved, the Most Great Mystery, the Most Hidden Symbol, the Divine Reality, and the Eternal Essence  AB00014

"The true aspect of the religion of Islam is not only misunderstood by the European missionaries and scholars, but even by the Mohamadans themselves, owing to the addition of the excrements of dogmas. If we want to study Islam we must go with a prayerful, reverent heart to its source - the Koran. All the commentators and theologians confuse our thoughts and mislead our aims."  ABU1513

They possess diverse ranks and conditions; in every rank, through the eye of insight, thou shalt perceive that they convey symbols, explanations, and allusions which none can comprehend save those whom God hath made strivers in His Cause, yearning to behold His signs, thirsting for the cup of His favors, and turning their faces toward His countenance, the All-Giving, the All-Forgiving.  AB00028

However, the sacred scriptures employ a special terminology, and in the sight of God's Manifestations these wonders and miracles hold no importance - so much so that they do not even wish them to be mentioned. For even if these miracles were considered the greatest of proofs, they would serve as clear evidence only for those who present at their occurrence, not for those who were absent.  AB00381

The interpretation of these statements is mentioned in the clearest manner and with the most wonderful proofs in the Book of Ighan. His honor, Ali-Kuli-Khan, has already translated this Book which will soon be published in America. Then you will be informed of the explanation and interpretation of these verses and statements as elucidated by the Blessed Perfection. Therefore my interpretation is not necessary.  AB00917

As for the seven spirits and seven stars mentioned in the Revelation of John, these refer to the seven letters found in the Greatest Name, for this Name with its seven letters has shone upon the horizons and illumined creation with brilliant rays from the Kingdom of the All-Merciful. As for the angel of the church and the seven churches, these refer to holy souls who were ignited with the fire of love for their Lord.  AB03527

Had they believed in the explanations given by Christ, and which were inspired, they would have understood the meanings of these prophesies. Had they believed in the power of inspiration they would not have been veiled from His bounty. As they did not understand the meaning of the revelation given by Christ they did not understand the revelation given in the Book, and these same revelations caused them to crucify Him.  ABU0251

If thou gazest upon the ocean of names, God hath ever been, from the beginning that hath no beginning, the Possessor of the Most Beautiful Names - of Compassion, Mercy, Lordship, Sovereignty and the like among His inaccessible names and His exalted attributes, and thus shall it be unto the end that hath no end. However, this knowledge in the ocean of names neither taketh root nor profiteth thee except thou witness it in the ocean of creation.  BB00654

The Most Truthful of Speakers mentions the dream of Joseph (peace be upon our age and upon him) and his interpretations of the dreams of the two persons mentioned in the Book. Now consider what kind of world it is where father and mother are seen in the form of sun and moon, and brother appears as a star, and what kind of world this is where the opposite is seen, where sun and moon appeared as father and mother, and star was perceived as brother.  BH00423

You had asked about the blessed verse "O Chief! We revealed Ourself to you once on Mount Tina and once on Mount Zita and in this blessed spot, but you were unaware because you followed your desires and were among the heedless."... Tina and Zita are outwardly two hills in Jerusalem on which divine revelation was sent to the prophets of God... By the mount of Tina the reality of Christ is intended, and by the mount of Zita, the reality of Muhammad   AB00650

This is when we look to the clear revelation. But if we rely on comprehensive interpretation, the Glorious Lord has said: "He bringeth forth the living from the dead, and bringeth forth the dead from the living." Whoever sets limits for God in His glorious outpourings is in manifest error and delusion. Moreover, "Look at the effects of God's mercy - how He quickeneth the earth after its death," and how He gathers luminous creatures in human reality after their passing.   AB00039

Were I to expound this theme to thee fully, the ocean would be exhausted ere the meanings of my Lord's words would be spent, even were We to bring its like for support. For the ocean of inner meanings is vast, vast indeed - surging and billowing, not to be contained in cups nor exhausted by tablets. By God! Were anyone to receive divine assistance, he could derive from every letter of God's Book countless volumes, and from a single drop of that ocean could fill innumerable cups.  AB00021

And in all these degrees there is a meaning according to the outward language, whereby the servant understandeth when he reflecteth thereon. And whatsoever is beyond these seven degrees in the mention that followeth them is like unto a horizontal chain which is found from the reflections of the seventh degree. And it hath different stations in the transformation of meaning in every station according to the variation in rank, until the meaning of the verse reacheth the station of the atom.  BB00173

The purpose of names is their sacred meanings and their realities which are sanctified from every indication and sign. For the spoken, uttered names assisted by air in the visible world are undoubtedly other than the Named One, as they are accidents that befall the air and are signs for the existing, intelligible meanings in sanctified hearts and abstract minds. Rather, what is intended is the meaning that subsists in the Essence through simplicity and oneness, without any taint of distinction.  AB00013

Know thou that We have interpreted this verse at the time when We were in Iraq according to what was befitting to possibility, and verily We decree all things in a clear Record. And this is for Husayn who heareth the melodies of the Divine Voice from his own ear, and beholdeth the beauty of His Being with his own eye, and perceiveth the fragrances of holiness from His locks, and there is none besides Him in His holy court who might turn unto Him or expound it or be numbered among the interpreters.   BH00367

At times by the Remembrance We mean the Most Great Remembrance, and by the Book We mean this Mighty Book, and by the City We mean that which We have manifested upon the temple of man and sent forth with evident sovereignty. And at times We mean by it that which floweth from His Most Exalted Pen and from His Tongue which God hath made the Dawning-Place of His Revelation and the Dayspring of His mighty and impregnable knowledge. And at times We mean by it that which none hath comprehended save God, the Almighty, the All-Powerful.   BH04545

As for your question about the blessed verse in the Furqan "O sister of Aaron" - since His Holiness Aaron was renowned for asceticism, piety and godliness, and Her Holiness Mary was likewise, therefore among the people she had the title "sister of Aaron", meaning in purity and sanctity she was Aaron's sister. Similarly, Her Holiness Mary was addressed as "daughter of Imran", as mentioned in the verse "and Mary daughter of Imran". This too was for the sake of sanctity and purity - Mary's actual father was not Imran, as mentioned in the Holy Book.   AB00632

"It does not mean that he lived 900 years as we count them. In ancient times the people were much interested in astrology and they always looked at the stars under which any one was born. If, for instance, one happened to be born under the sign of the moon, his age would be reckoned according to the lunar months - each month as a year; or, if one happened to be born under the sign of the sun, his age would be reckoned according to the days of the sun, and in the Bible it says that each day is as a year in the sight of God. These questions are not very important."   ABU1200

Now the Baha'is hold that the recorded signs did come to pass in the Manifestation of Christ, although not in the sense which the Jews understood, the description in the Torah being allegorical. For instance, among the signs is that of sovereignty. For Baha'is say that the sovereignty of Christ was a heavenly, divine, everlasting sovereignty, not a Napoleonic sovereignty that vanisheth in a short time. For well nigh two thousand years this sovereignty of Christ hath been established, and until now it endureth, and to all eternity that Holy Being will be exalted upon an everlasting throne.  AB00645

Verily, the Qur'an hath infinite stations in the knowledge of God, and none can comprehend these conditions save through knowledge of the matter between the two matters and the station between the two stations, which was revealed in the tradition from the suns of religion and the pillars of the people of certitude. When one is able to discover the secret of that wisdom, that path becomes easy for him - which is to behold multiplicity through the eye of the Divine Essence's revelation unto him. When one becomes steadfast upon that path, he sees no contradiction in the traditions, nor ambiguous decree in the Qur'an, and he sees questions as clear verses and allusions as evident proofs.   BB00165

Therefore unto Thee do I complain, O my God, of all contingent beings, and I shall surely set forth before Thee an example of them that Thou mayest bear witness concerning me - and sufficient art Thou as witness concerning me. Verily, their example is like that wherein Thou hast placed a spring, and there has grown from the earth a tree bearing diverse fruits, and each according to what it loves and its soul desires takes from that tree and judges it according to what it takes. Some say it is a pomegranate tree, and they have spoken truly in what they have said. And some say that tree is an apple tree - these have spoken truly, but they comprehend it not. And some are more refined in view and vision, taking from that tree gardens of delight - these say it is a basil tree, and these comprehend it not.   BB00171

His Holiness Christ said that John the Baptist was Elijah. When they came from the mount of transfiguration, Elijah came. We expected Elijah to come before Moses, and now Moses has come before Elijah, on Mount Transfiguration. Christ said Elijah came but they did not know him. Nay, rather they molested him, and then the disciples learned from that statement that the simile referred to John the Baptist. Then, again, He says that John the Baptist was the Elijah foretold, who would come before Christ. This is also an explicit text of the Gospel, whereas when they asked of John the Baptist, 'Art thou Elias?' he said, 'I am not.' Christ said he was Elijah. The disciples declared that this John the Baptist was the prophet prophesied, whereas when they asked of him he said he was not. Now, he was either Elijah, or he was not!   ABU1115

The metaphorical is a bridge to the real. God willing, they shall be illumined by the light of reality and attain the station of "extinguish the lamp for the morn has dawned." When a person of insight enters the path of spiritual wayfaring, after purifying and sanctifying the soul from all that God loveth not, multiple paths appear and he traverses them. This is why they have said "The paths to God are as numerous as the breaths of created things." However, if through God's grace the eye is blessed with the light of truth, it will be observed that the Truth is one, the Path is one, and the Cause is one. This is the station of unity that makes the limbs of the polytheists tremble and the root of heedlessness quake. BH01200


Whatsoever thou beholdest in the earth, even if it appeareth to contravene the outward desire of the Embodiments of His Cause, yet in truth all hath been and shall ever be according to the Divine Will. Should anyone, after perceiving this Tablet, reflect upon the aforementioned Word, he would become aware of a wisdom heretofore unknown, for the form of words is the treasury of truth, and their inherent meanings are the spiritual pearls of the Sovereign of Oneness. The hand of Divine infallibility forbiddeth the people from attaining unto it, but when God's Will so decrees and the hand of power unsealeth it, then do the people become cognizant thereof.  BH00066

And as for your distinction that the Point of the Bayan - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - revealed one thing for the people of imitation and the common folk, and another declaration for those possessed of insight and understanding - this is thy transgression against God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. This statement is utterly vain and meaningless. The Truth hath appeared of His own Self with clear signs, and these are indeed a proof from God unto every soul, if thou be of them that know. The Divine Proof hath ever been one, and for all they have ordained those same revealed verses as proof. And were there not in creation the faculty to recognize and comprehend verses, they would certainly not have been revealed through manifest signs. In this there is wisdom for those possessed of understanding, and none recognize it save those endowed with insight.  BH00004


