O peoples, do not spill blood and do not seize the goods of others.  BH09726

We forbade everyone from shedding blood, as all the Tablets testify   BH04533

Beware lest ye shed blood. Whoso sheddeth blood is not of Me, and God is quit of him.  BH10130

Know ye that We have forbidden the servants to shed blood and to slay those who have denied God, the Lord of lords.   BH04398

For example, if someone comes here wanting to strike or kill you, I should not sit quietly. Of course I must defend.  ABU3284

In all the Tablets He forbade you to shed blood, yet you committed that which violated His sanctity before all creation.   BH03233

Say: Whosoever sheddeth the blood of any one, he is not of Me and God is quit of him. Thus hath the command been revealed in a preserved Tablet.  BH06116

Ye have been forbidden to commit murder or adultery, or to engage in backbiting or calumny; shun ye, then, what hath been prohibited in the holy Books and Tablets.  BH00001

We have forbidden the shedding of blood in most of the Tablets. Beware lest ye perpetrate what ye have been forbidden in the Book of God, the Sovereign, the Mighty, the Beautiful.  BH06749

Say: "Fear God and spread not disorder on earth after it hath been well-ordered, neither shed the blood of anyone, for such things are forbidden you in the Book and in this Outspread Roll."   BH03702

Say: O people, fear God and shed not blood, for this hath been forbidden by One mighty and all-knowing. Whosoever deliberately killeth a soul hath indeed departed from the stronghold of justice  BH03863

This is absolutely not permitted. In all scriptures, books and tablets this reprehensible act, which is killing, has been strictly forbidden in the Book. Blessed is he who heareth! Woe to the heedless!  BH02497

O people of the Bayan! Are ye not ashamed? Slay no one ever, for whoso slayeth a soul, it is as though he hath slain all mankind, and whoso giveth life to a soul, it is as though he hath given life to all mankind.   BB00666

He hath entirely removed the decree of killing, and in the Most Holy Book, which was revealed from the holy Kingdom, He hath commanded that all should associate with the followers of all religions in the utmost spirit of joy and fragrance. The killing of an unbelieving oppressor is not permissible today, let alone anyone else.   BH00549

It would be more acceptable in My sight for a person to harm one of My own sons or relatives rather than inflict injury upon any soul.  BH11464

In the court it becomes clear what kind of murder it is. There are three kinds of murder. First, the one who kills with a purpose using weapons such as sword, knife, guns. The murderer has the intention of killing. They are called murder with purpose or willful murder. The second is one who does not use fire arms or sword but he beats his victim with a stick not intending to kill. This is called not willful murder. Or a person may throw a glass of water at someone and kill him. Now the glass is not an instrument for killing, yet death is caused. This is also called not willful murder. The third kind is accidental.  ABU0298



