
Perfect the art of music  AB11495

the soul who summons the people to the Kingdom of God advances more rapidly and is more powerfully influenced than the hearers. The real artist is the one who feels every word and meaning of his song more, infinitely more than his audience.  ABU0990

When I was travelling in Europe and America I attended some concerts and oratories and was delighted with the progress of the vocal and instrumental art in those parts. Although it seems to them they have exhausted the subtle, chromatic resources of music yet they are on the threshold of the revelation of celestial, universal music, which shall revolutionize the present system and usher in a new era of musical progress. The musical consciousness of future generations will become so rarified and trained that today's masterpieces will be as dissonant noises in their ears. ABU1217

At one time I was walking along the shore of Euphrates. Absorbed in my thought I suddenly heard the most charming and sweetest sound. I turned my head and saw a simple Arab lad riding on a donkey, loaded with under-brushes and playing on his flute. I was so intoxicated with the melody of his faultless tone that I requested him to get down from his donkey and play for me. I helped him to unload his donkey and then quietly we sat under the inviting shade of a tree. Then he began to play with such depth of feeling and beauty that my whole heart went to him. I drank deeply the sweet cadences and harmonies of his flute to such an extent that I was entranced thereby. When he finished playing I assisted him again to load his donkey, gave him a present and the address of our house and asked him to call on me next day. At the appointed hour he came and played for us and as there were several prominent men in the room they all liked his music and asked him in turn to go to their homes one night a week and entertain them and their guests. In a short while he became famous throughout all Bagdad and leaving his hard labor of thorn-picking he devoted his career to the inspiring art of music. With his growing popularity he grew in wealth and position and became a respected, loved and honored member of the community. He was still in Bagdad when we were exiled to Constantinople and used to call on me almost every week antecedent to our departure. ABU1217

Therefore let us search and find out the one glorious song which has run throughout all ages, with thousands of entrancing accompaniments, the effect of which have changed millions of human beings.  ABU0206


Chant melodies, play music and raise a resounding tune.  AB09237

in the feast of worship thou art a player, performer and singer  AB10509

Play and sing with the melody of Barbad and the psalms of David   AB11980

Chant songs of joy, strike up a melody, raise a resounding strain.  AB09237

sacred readings with melodious voices should be read by all together  AB04339

thou art playing sweet melodies in the rose garden of the love of God  AB10958

Take up the divine harp and strike up the melody of the Abha Kingdom   AB06834

singing songs and melodies out of intense joy and delight is desirable   AB02662

are accustomed to encouraging people by singing ghazals and spiritual songs   AB07416

compose a melody with the strains of the Abha Kingdom. Play the harp and lute  AB10519

and sing songs and play melodies that would bring the listener to dance and rapture   AB06913

The people of Iran are not yet able to tolerate such gatherings and songs and melodies.   AB01842

Where have the sounds of lute and organ gone, and the secrets of string and oud and harp?   AB03689

to sing with celestial melody the divine mystery in the cosmic assembly with harp and lute   AB06463


thou wilt, with perfect joy, play on thy harp and raise its melody in this Heavenly Rose-Garden   AB07514

When they arrange a gathering they sing sweet melodies and offer praise to the Lord of creation.   AB03248

When this light shines through the mind of a musician, it manifests itself in beautiful harmonies.   ABU3051

Let them play the lute and reed instrument, and harmonize with melodies of praise and glorification.  AB01210

Thy voice and thy melody in singing reached the ears of Abdul-Baha, and produced joy and fragrance.   AB00628

Sing in all gatherings of the love and harmony of the beloved and the maidservants of the Merciful.   AB11516

when the melody of vocal and instrumental music arises and bursts upon the air with its joyous trends  ABU1905

you would intone the blessed poems with marvelous melodies and adorn ears with their precious meanings   AB05206

Complete thou the study of the art of music and sacrifice thyself more or less to the Lord of the Kingdom.   AB05941

The musician of the divine feast, tuning the spiritual harp...this ghazal was composed and sung and chanted   AB05428

Thou must come with the old song, so that the melodies and harmonies may impart the utmost joy and fragrance.  AB10049

It is like a song; both words and music make the song. Sometimes the melody will move us, sometimes the words.  ABU3528

may become engaged in singing and chanting upon the branches of existence with the psalms of the House of David   AB07083

Thus have We sent down the verses and dispatched them unto thee that thou mayest recite them with melodious tunes  BH07759

chant songs in the gathering of the friends, raise spiritual melodies, and lift up the anthem of the Abha Kingdom  AB09092

thy poem shall be chanted with melody and best voices in the Center of Worship (or Mashrak-el-Azcar) forevermore   AB07021

Your melody is in the mode of 'Iraq and Hijaz...Your song gives life to souls and your melody brings joy to hearts  AB10069

raise such song and melody in the glorification and praise of Baha'u'llah that you may cause a tumult in that city  AB12024

Now is the time for him to sing ghazals and compose melodies and tune the harp and lute and begin songs and music.   AB06858

Verily I shall send thy beautiful and new hymn to Persia so that they may translate and sing it in the assemblies.   AB05898

Mrs. Randall: "Should there be singing of songs as well as chanting of prayers in the meetings?" 'Abdu'l-Baha: "Yes."   ABU0392

This is the time of Solomon's wisdom and David's melody and divine passion and ecstasy and longing and joy.   AB03552

"When you hear Persian music it will sound strange, but after you become accustomed to it you will enjoy it very much."  ABU0950

with melody, song, chanting, ecstasy, attraction and rapture watered the rose-garden and flower-bed of the Sacred Valley   AB06778

This is the time of profit and song, the moment for the melody of harp and lute... play to the melody of the divine call   AB04139

"With harp and drum and reed and strings, in the gathering of the righteous ones, compose melodies and songs of mysteries"  AB05242

They chanted the verses of the Covenant in the assemblage of the women of the horizons with melody, song, harp and music.   AB02341

The time has come for you to begin a melody in the meadow, to sing a song in the rose garden, and to tune the harp and lute  AB10066

in the exalted Paradise play the lute and the oud, raising melodies of the Most Glorious Garden to the Kingdom of Mysteries.  AB06217

Teach thy pupils the beauty and charm of the spiritual music, the harmonies that exalt the spirit and ennobles one's thoughts.  ABU1935

play the shahnaz [a musical mode], that the birds of the meadow may come at thy melody and voice and raise their trilling songs  AB10453

you have sung such melodies that the songs of harp and drum, and the tunes of lute and reed and flute, have lost their splendor  AB07701

May thy call be the source of life and the melodies and tunes of thy harp and harpsichord cause all those regions to be moved.   AB06822

I hope that in the assemblies thou mayest sing praises with a sweet melody and thus become the cause of joy and gladness to all.   AB06287

May they strike up such a melody that its fame spreads throughout the world and sing such a song that moves the kingdom of creation.   AB01347

Melodies have their modes, and songs their measures. None can hear and understand save those whom We have made the ears of the world.   BH04401

"I have asked for heavenly confirmation for your sons that they may gain proficiency in the art of music"   AB05231

all engaged in melody and joy, and in the feast of alast they are companions of the lute and the oud, and each one has a melody and song  AB06428

As to chanting supplications in the Oriental tune: This is very agreeable. His honor Mr. Kinney must exert his endeavor in this matter.   AB00372

This melody and tune becomes the cause of radiance, progress and culture. You must play such a divine melody and tune with reed and harp  AB11785

with sweet melody sing the Divine Words, so that hearts may become attracted, souls assured, and spirits attached to the Heavenly Beloved.  AB08203

Tune the harp of love and create a pleasing melody. Strike up a royal tune and raise such a song that its echo may reach both East and West.  AB08750

They must adorn spiritual gatherings, chant songs and strike up melodies and anthems to bring the listeners into a state of joy and ecstasy   AB02435

"from the wine prepared in Bahram's tavern, give the friends to drink until they become intoxicated in the world and in the heavenly assembly"  AB08288

The believers must cultivate a beautiful voice so that they may sing the Baha'i songs or chant the Blessed Perfection's Communes with effect.   ABU3524

Since thou hast heard the sweet Hijazi melodies from the Iraqi Countenance, now hearken to the spiritual Shahnaz strains from the divine Falcon, that thou mayest perceive novel songs of faithfulness from the eternal lute and harp, and hear the melody of the divine pipe from the strike of the divine Unity, and step into the lane of the Beloved with all thy heart and soul, until thou becomest all spirit and fliest without wings, and art intoxicated without wine, and speakest eloquently without tongue, and attainest the stations of attraction, longing, ecstasy and taste, until thou forgettest sorrow and drinkest from the ocean of joy. BH03210

so that the friends may chant them with a sweet melody and the ears of the people of Baha, especially 'Abdu'l-Baha, may be delighted and stirred  AB08696

Take up the harp of love and create a pleasing melody. Strike up a royal tune and raise such a voice that its echo may reach both East and West.  AB08750

Therefore, raise your voice as much as you can and play the shahnaz, awaken the birds of the meadow, and at dawn harmonize with sweet melodies.   AB06794

Let each become a wondrous musician, tune the harp of the Most Great Glad-Tidings, and with lute and string begin the melody of the love of God   AB01354

O spiritual nightingale, sing a melody with the divine sweet tone on this Ridvan Festival in praise and glorification of the All-Merciful Beauty   AB07193

When I utter their names, I find it like the music of the lute, the oud and the melodies of the psalms of David's house - uplifting and refreshing.  AB04487

Take up the harp and lute and raise a melody in harmony with the Supreme Concourse, that the birds of the meadow may come into rapture and ecstasy   AB05885

until each one in this feast plays a melody with high and low notes, raises a loud cry, creates music, composes a song, and plays the harp and lute.  AB04699

Always warble in the garden of divine knowledge with various melodies and novel tunes...It is time for song and melody, the moment for harp and music  AB05240

The melody must be divine, whether it be in Persian, Arabic, or Turkish; the tune and air must be soul-stirring, whether in the mode of Hijaz or Iraq.  AB05862

to strike up a wondrous melody and to play upon the harp and lute, and in gratitude for the bounty of the peerless Lord to become harmonious companions   AB05516

"...with a sweet melody thou art imparting joy and exhilaration to the souls and in the meetings stir and move the audience through the heavenly Call."   AB01774

When the earthly music is joined with the heavenly music such happiness and acclamation become revealed in the hearts that the spirits will soar heavenward.   AB06240

They must adorn their gathering with the remembrance of God and raise such melody and song as to bring the dwellers of the Kingdom into rapture and ecstasy.   AB03982

Therefore raise the song of joy and lift up the melody of delight, and with lute and lyre engage in singing and chanting with the utmost ecstasy and rapture   AB01937

The divine musician hath played such a melody of "He is! He is!" on the harp, drum and flute that it hath thrown the spiritual beings into ecstasy and rapture.   AB01213

For example, a melody, sweet to the ear, bringeth the very spirit of life to a heart in love with God, yet staineth with lust a soul engrossed in sensual desires.   AB03123

It was chanted and sung with the most wonderful melodies in the gathering of the friends. Hearts became joyful and souls were delighted by its truths and meanings.   AB04568

In the days of God thou didst warble the most wondrous melodies in the garden of unity... and became the celestial musician in the spiritual gathering of fellowship.   AB05330

Meanwhile they may read some Tablets and Communes, and at the end of the meetings, if they desire to sing with the utmost supplication and meekness, it is acceptable.  ABU2522

This abound exhilarated and rejoiced by its own melody. How significant and eloquent were those new verses, for they were the notes of the clarion of the love of God!  AB06955

And it behooveth thee to be elaborate in prolixity and miraculous in brevity, and to master various melodies and create the most beautiful harmonies in these gardens.   AB08432

"Chant the verses of guidance among the people and commence [the composition of] melodies of great beauty and effect in praise and glorification of the Generous Lord."   AB07022

Divine music exhilarates the Spirit while earthly music has an effect over the body. Divine music belong to the Kingdom of God; earthly music is of this mundane world.   ABU3104

O musician at the feast of the love of God! The time has come for you to begin singing in the gathering of God's Covenant and to tune the harp, and in high notes to chant  AB10084

When its accessories are completed and its full machinery starts running, when the melody of vocal and instrumental music arises and rends the air with its joyous trends   ABU2266

The holy maidens are engaged with the spirit of fellowship in melodious songs and heavenly anthems, that perchance dead hearts may come to everlasting life and divine melodies  BH11081

If there are those who have good voices, sing beautiful songs, if possible Persian chants and poems. If no one can do this in Persian, have sung any beautiful songs in English.  ABU1635

Therefore, each one of the loved ones of God must take up the lute and reed, and with a wondrous melody, raise song and music in this divine garden, creating ecstasy and rapture.   AB00377

These told him that there were many earnest believers in America, but that they were far apart and all playing on different musical instruments, so that they did not play in harmony.   ABU3063

Music is produced by vibrations of air which affect the tympanum of the ear. Although music or an ordinary pleasing voice is of the physical realm, yet it has an effect upon the spirit.  ABU2860

"The new song and thy notes were received. Praise thou God that thou art ever engaged and associated with praise and thanksgiving to the Promised Beauty with the harp and the mandolin."   AB04788

The high notes of singers, the sound of musical instruments, and the excitement of dancers bring no delight - rather, it is the melody of devotion and entreaty that bestows abundant joy.  AB05620

Therefore, with rent garment, disheveled hair and glowing countenance, sing love songs in the gathering of the friends, raise spiritual melodies and lift up the anthem of the Abha Kingdom  AB09092

Let them sing with the accents of Iraq so that hearts may be moved and souls may be quickened; let them chant the melodies of Hijaz that all spirits may be animated by this divine vitality.  AB00830

At every moment offer thanks and praise, and with harp and melody raise a song and tune until you set the world in motion and make souls the confidants and companions of the Concourse on High.  AB02289

compose odes and lyrics with the utmost eloquence and profundity, so that you may bring joy and delight to the denizens of the divine realm and bestow happiness upon the dwellers of the Kingdom.   AB04404

whatever he may sing in the arts of melody upon the branches of utterance may be in this station and tune, that it may be chanted in the gatherings of the Kingdom and assemblies of the Realm of Might   AB05241

Therefore, play the rebeck of guidance in such wise that through its wondrous tones the spirit of possibility may be stirred into motion and the hearts of the people of all worlds may find endless joy.  AB10836

O spiritual nightingale! You are ever engaged in song and melody, and in the rose-garden of inner meanings you raise your voice in praise. The eloquence and elegance of your verses are clear and evident.  AB08802

O melodious bird! Various birds in plain and mountain, flower garden and rose garden sing songs...the nightingale of faithfulness upon the rose branch raises the divine anthem and the All-Merciful melody  AB11681

Make this servant melodious, attuned with the airs of the Supreme Concourse, and confer upon him a thrilling and resounding voice, like the nightingale of hidden meanings in the Divine Rose Garden.  AB11417

Therefore assist him with the psalms of David's house and melodies that would soften solid rock, that he may sing the most wondrous songs in the expanse of paradise and the vastness of the Merciful's gardens  AB01152

Verily the Song of the Covenant of most eloquent phrase and of most wonderful melody was received. And the maidservants of the Merciful are singing it in the great assemblages and are rejoicing in these harmonies  AB11210

There will be no organ in the Temple. In buildings nearby, festivals, services, conventions, public meetings and spiritual gatherings will be held, but in the Temple the chanting and singing will be unaccompanied.  ABU3336

Therefore, in thanksgiving for this bounty of the one true Lord, hold festivities day and night, that through the celestial melodies of harp and flute thou mayest bestow joy and delight upon both friend and stranger.  AB09216

You who are the bird of dawn, sweet-singing and melodious and cultured - take up the harp and lute and break the market of Barbad, and sing such a song that the Angel of the highest heaven will be moved to enthusiasm  AB02766

Therefore, in thanksgiving for this bounty of the one true Lord, hold thou a festival day and night, that through the celestial melody of harp and lute thou mayest bestow joy and delight upon both friend and stranger.  AB09216

like spiritual nightingales, may sing sweet melodies and songs, so that the listeners may be moved to enthusiasm and rapture, and in their extreme attraction may clap and dance in gratitude to the Self-Sufficing Lord.   AB03443

Therefore be thou happy and remain in melody and delight. They say that [name not readable] is melodious and tuneful as David, renowned for his sweet voice - not for sighs and groans and constant wailing day and night.  AB10710

Thank thou God that thou art instructed in music and melody, singing with pleasant voice the glorification and praise of the Eternal, the Living. I pray to God that thou mayest employ this talent in prayer and supplication  AB10062

Although outwardly there was no merriment or delight, and no musician played melodies and songs, and no harp or lute made music - there was no brimming cup, no joy-inducing wine, no ornament or adornment, no horn or flute   AB03703

We saw that they had prepared a big banquet with sweets and cakes of many kinds. There were well known musicians who played and sang. Pianists, violinists, cellists, flutes players and one young man and a young lady sang.   ABU1579

At times it plays the tune of Hijaz, and at other times it raises high the melody of Shahnaz-i-'Iraq. Sometimes it plays the station of lovers, and at times it gives voice to the sighs and lamentations of the yearning ones.  AB09989

But the ear of 'Abdu'l-Baha yearns to hear praise of the Most Glorious Beauty and finds no delight in any melody and seeks no thrill from any tune except this divine song and music and melody of the rose garden of meanings   AB04057

The melody, which thou didst compose for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar has reached the ears of 'Abdu'l-Baha. It was a very sweet and heart-touching melody, because it contained the praise and glorification of His Holiness Baha'u'llah.  AB09415

It is time for celestial music and the moment for the song of servitude at the Holy Threshold of His Holiness the Most Glorious. Why are you silent and quiet? Raise a cry, lift up your voice, sing melodies, strike the strings   AB05850

Although the dove and the nightingale, both of them, are two sweet singing birds, yet in the East, especially in Persia, they call the nightingale a sweet singing bird, and in natural singing they prefer it to all other birds.  AB04263

Each time thou drawest breath, the spiritual ones stand ready to hear, and the luminous forms are stirred into motion. As much as thou art able, day and night, convey the song and melody of the Angel to the ears of the heedless.  AB08771

taught it various melodies, songs and tunes...so that you might begin to sing in the divine rose-garden and eternal flower bed with godly voice and Iraqi mode and Hijazi station and Bayati tone and lovers' air and divine rhythm   AB01950

Every bird that raises its voice and melody in this meadow, that strikes up a tune and song, is indeed a nightingale of the garden of immortality, a phoenix of the mount of faithfulness, and a musician with instrument and song.   AB11740

As to the wonderful melody whereby thy spirit was revived, verily it is a melody of the melodies of the divine music, which will cause the spirits to ascend unto the Supreme Horizon and will (cause) the mysteries to be unfolded.   AB04518

Music is an ancient art in Persia. The old People of Persia loved music very much and their artists contributed to its development...Thus Persian music has contributed to the European Music, although this is not quite well-known.  ABU0556

Praise be to God, that thou hast capacity and worthiness, in order to become the maidservant of the Kingdom of God and in the heavenly festival and spiritual society thou mayst decorate the meeting with the beauties of song and melody.   AB01098

May God assist you to sing the most wonderful melodies in the expansive gardens with diverse tunes. God willing, you will ever make the gatherings of the friends independent of evening wine and the strains of harp and lute through this song.  AB09557

Despite the fact that the people of Kaf are famous for their singing and music and melodies and stations of bayat and hijaz modes and Iraqi rhythms, what happened that you became completely silent and lifeless and intoxicated and bewildered?  AB01238

Some friends asked about the matter of singing and chanting in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar: 'Abdu'l-Baha said that the recitation of the Holy Writings and prayers, whether in verse or prose, should be performed by singing and chanting. "However," he added, "I do not interfere in such matters that have not been explicitly revealed in the Text. Whatsoever the Universal House of Justice may prescribe at any time, the same shall be the accepted criterion."  ABU3315

I swear by the Quintessence of existence Baha'u'llah if thou shouldst attain this station thy voice shall be the voice of the Psalms of David, thy chanting shall echo with the melodies of holiness and sanctity in the path of the All-loving Lord   AB05541

Now it behoveth thee to raise the melody of that heavenly lyre and to perform music on that celestial lute, thus causing Barbud to return to life and Rudaki to be solaced and Farabi to become restless and Ibn-i-Sina to be guided to the Sinai of God.  AB03925

they raise such a call in their glorification and praise of the Greatest Name as to cause the inmates of the Fanes of the Kingdom to become attracted and overjoyed, and that they recite prayers in prose and poetry, and melodiously chant the divine verses  AB06030

Sing and play in the meetings of the friends and the maidservants of the Merciful; engage thyself in the praise and glorification of the Lord of the Kingdom; sing a song which shall set aflame the world and render melodies which are effective in the hearts.  AB09485

The ears of the Concourse on High hearken to thy melodies in glorification and praise, as thou extollest thy Lord, the Most Glorious. Therefore, ascend to the Kingdom and warble like the dove of holiness in the gardens of the realm of might  AB09648

deck forth the stage for a spiritual celebration, and, to the strains of harp and lute and the melodies of the Concourse on high and the songsters in the meads of holiness, break into sweet lays and wondrous tunes in praise and glorification of the Abha Beauty.  AB02941

Therefore, like the nightingale of divine unity, open your tongue in the rose garden of sanctification, tune the instrument of the Supreme Concourse, and with the melody of the Abha Kingdom compose and chant in gatherings a new ode in praise of the Sun of Glory.  AB07620

There is no doubt that music has therapeutic effect over the body. The ancient physicians healed many sicknesses with music. Some of the ailments ware healed by treating trough music. There is no doubt that the body of man receives exhilaration through the effect of music.  ABU2123

For instance, among the ordinances is the permissibility of music and song. However, should a person from among the people of Bayan openly engage in this practice, it would be unwise, as it would cause the servants to withdraw and create turmoil among the people of the land.   BH00466

Like a lark bursting with happiness turns thy face towards the mystic rose garden at all times and sings the sweetest of thy songs. Strike on the cymbal, blow the trumpet, play the harpsichord with thy melodies, and gather in a beautiful assembly dedicated to the Love of God.  AB04058

The candle is bright and the honey is refined, and that spiritual witness holds a lute in hand and with sweet melodies of the Abha Kingdom is engaged in song and music. Its harp imparts heavenly power, its plectrum conveys glad-tidings of the favors of the Divine and Heavenly Beauty  AB10145

Take in hand the strings and chords of meanings and, with a sweet life-giving spiritual melody, engage in divine praise and glorification. In the garden of existence, begin playing the psalms of the House of David, and on the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree play a soul-stirring melody   AB06868

These are days of melody and song, and the period of musical harmony and shahna'z... But delight and joy depend on music and song and the melodies of harp and instrument. Until the warbling of garden birds rises high, listeners will not be stirred nor become companions in joy and gladness.   AB04265

In every spot on the face of the earth, gatherings of the loved ones are organized and arranged, and the melody of the lute and string and song is raised with "Glory be to God!" and "God is Most Great!", and the song of the Concourse on High reaches the ears of both the noble and the lowly.   AB01270

In praise of the All-Knowing God you have given voice eloquently, and in describing and extolling the Ever-Living, the Almighty, you have arranged precious odes in poetic verse... Therefore now, with harp and tambourine and flute and lute and oud and strings, strive to raise up the Word of God   AB05840

The music branch must operate with utmost perfection. This art is among the most glorious arts, and its study is among the requirements of this sovereign age of Divine Unity. However, it must be perfected, not left incomplete like others. The establishment of this branch is most fitting and appropriate.  AB12022

This song cheered me, for it proved to be a strain of the music of the Supreme Kingdom, an anthem which connotes that of heaven, and a refrain indicative of the divine, even as a ray of the sun is indicative of the sun. It is just as a strain cheers the heart that anthem of the Kingdom moves the heart of existence.  ABU1962

Take up the lute and rebec and in these gardens of sanctity play songs of unity in praise of the Glorious Lord... Hear ye the vibrations of the divine strings and listen to the spiritual thirds and doubles... and from every branch rises the sound of lute and song, and from every palace the strains of harp and lyre.   AB02748

Each word is a verse of jubilation, one word is a lute and tambour, one word is the psalms of the House of David, one word is harp and musical instrument, one word is singing and melody - a complete orchestra that brings listeners to ecstasy and joy. You play your tune there and bring lovers here to rapture and delight.   AB01467

When the sweet harmonies of the Bird of the Supreme Paradise are raised, the buzzings of the bees are not heeded. Today whosoever takes the lessons of voice culture in the Celestial Conservatory of Baha'u'llah, he will be endowed with a soul-captivating voice which would move and thrill the hearts of numberless music lovers.   ABU2280

Sing and play in the meetings of the friends and the maidservants of the Merciful; engage thyself in the praise and glorification of the Lord of the Kingdom; sing a song which shall set aflame the world and render melodies which are effective in the hearts. I hope that thou wilt sing such song and cause life to revive the hearts.  AB09485

When we were coming from New York to London, the band on the ship played every morning and evening, and the passengers were accustomed to listening to pass the time. However, when they sometimes played better, people would become excited for a few minutes and clap at the end. This was the result of their music and melodies - temporary, not permanent.  ABU2071

Musical melodies cause physical bodies to vibrate, but heavenly songs cause the human spirit to soar. Tell Mr. Harold McKey that if you can combine earthly tunes with celestial melodies, then you will observe that you have breathed the breath of life into the body of the world and bestowed upon the human world a joy and delight that will endure forever.  AB12133

In this new and wondrous dispensation the veils of superstition have been torn asunder and the prejudices of eastern peoples stand condemned. Among certain nations of the East, music was considered reprehensible, but in this new age the Manifest Light hath, in His holy Tablets, specifically proclaimed that music, sung or played, is spiritual food for soul and heart.   AB06303


The musician's art is among those arts worthy of the highest praise, and it moveth the hearts of all who grieve. Wherefore, O thou Shahnaz, play and sing out the holy words of God with wondrous tones in the gatherings of the friends, that the listener may be freed from chains of care and sorrow, and his soul may leap for joy and humble itself in prayer to the realm of Glory.   AB06303

With a melodious voice it should be sung during the Days of the Ridvan and the believers and maidservants of the Merciful must listen. The poetries which are composed in these days will be mentioned by the poets and thinkers throughout the ages and after a thousand years they will be chanted and sung in the great meetings, vast congregations and wonderful Temples throughout the world.   AB07233

Music is an important means for the education and development of humanity. Musical melodies play an important role in the outward and inward qualities of man, for music is the inspirer and motive power of both the material and the spiritual susceptibilities. What a motive power it is in feelings of love! When man is attracted to the Love of God, music will have a great effect upon him.   ABU0381

When we left America on the steamer celtic, there were several musicians and singers. They played and sung every day and night. when they stopped playing the listeners clapped their hands and all was ended. This was its result. But you must sing a melody as to move and stir the hearts of the Supreme Concourse and its effects may be eternal. The earthly notes and strains are limited as to their influence.  ABU2622

Though musicians of the past acquired skill in their art and composed original melodies, becoming renowned throughout the horizons and the delight of lovers, playing romantic verses with plaintive tunes and raising their song in the gathering of the world, creating tumult in Iraq with their Hijaz melodies in the desert of separation--yet divine melody hath another effect, and heavenly song another attraction and ecstasy.  AB03925

Singing melodies will bring animation and happiness to the world of humanity, the hearers will be delighted and joyful and their deeper emotions stirred. But this gladness, this sense of emotion is transitory and will be forgotten within a short time. However, praise be to God, thou hast blended thy tunes with the melodies of the Kingdom, wilt impart solace to the world of the spirit and wilt everlastingly stimulate spiritual feelings.   AB11975

Church bells don't have musical tone. An organ with its tones and half tones would be much more beautiful. The heavenly music is heart ravishing. That melody penetrates the heart of man. That clarion bestows on man spirituality and joy. That music awakens man out of the sleep of negligence. But the majority of mankind are not endowed with ears to listen to that joy and giving melody because their ears are accustomed to such cheap rag time.  ABU1042

Continue as long as thou canst this melody in the gatherings of the beloved, thus may the minds find rest and joy and become in tune with the love of God. When eloquence of expression, beauty of sense and sweetness of composition unite with new melodies the effect is ever great. Endeavor your utmost to compose beautiful poems to be chanted with heavenly music; thus may their beauty affect the minds and impress the hearts of those who listen.   AB05778

In the American cities and on this Celtic steamer, the melodies and songs of musicians reach the highest zenith. Every night and morning, songs and tunes from the ship's singers and musicians reach the ears of those present. But no melody is as joy-giving as the tune of the honored teacher and the sound of his instrument. Whoever has heard that considers these melodies to be the sound of a pickaxe, for that tune and voice rises from a heart full of humility and supplication.   AB01586

An Hindu professor of music came here, bringing his musical instrument called The Vina with him and played for us certain oriental strains, accompanying them with singing... Let us find out the melody, the sweet strains of which will be taken up by angels and carried to the supreme concourse... Let us listen to a strain which gives life to man... But if we want to listen to all different kinds of music we will have nothing but discord, for they are being played by inferior artists.  ABU0206

This wonderful age has rent asunder the veils of superstition and has condemned the prejudices of the people of the East. Among some of the nations of the Orient music and harmony was not approved, but the Manifested Light (Baha'u'llah) in this glorious age has revealed in Holy Tablets that singing and music are the spiritual food of the hearts and souls....  In this great dispensation music is one of the arts that is highly approved and is considered to be the cause of the exaltation of sad and despondent hearts. Music is most important. Music is the heart's own language. Its vibrations uplift the spirit; it is very beautiful and a great art.    ABU2304


The utmost joy was attained, for--praise be to God!--the friends of the Merciful passed some time on that day joyous and singing in the land of the Mashrak-el-Azcar and enjoyed commemorating the Lord of the verses with the greatest joy... I am hopeful that, during the coming of Rizwan, a great feast shall be held in the land of the Mashrak-el-Azcar, a spiritual celebration prepared and the melodies of the violin and the mandolin and hymns in praise and glorification of the Lord of Hosts make all the audience joyous and ecstatic.  AB04046

His Holiness Baha'o'llah likened the religions of the world to musical instruments, each divine messenger having been sent to sound a different key, but the instruments have become out of tune and discord has resulted. Therefore Baha'o'llah brought a new musical instrument and put it into our hands, saying: "Play on this. It includes all notes, all harmony. This harmony will exhilarate even the angels and will set them to dancing. The Supreme Concourse will rejoice, for this harmony will be never-ending. The melody will be eternal."  ABU0792

The effect of a garden bird's song lasts but a moment, while the anthem of the spiritual nightingale has an eternal and everlasting influence. The song of that one reaches only its surroundings, while the melody of this one ascends from the nether world to the Supreme Concourse. By the voice of that one, those intoxicated with the wine of the grape are moved to joy and delight, while by the anthem of this one, they who are inebriated with the divine wine are stirred to ecstasy and expansion and gladness in the Kingdom of the All-Merciful.  AB04655

Music is a sign of the signs of God. Just as earthly music bestows exhilaration and rejoicing to the bodies, so the spiritual music stirs into cheerfulness and beatific bliss the hearts and the spirits. The prophets of God are the heavenly Artists or Musicians. Therefore I hope that whenever you are playing upon your instrument you may hear the invisible song of the Kingdom and the divine anthem. Just as the material marshal music stirs the hearts of the warriors, may your ethereal music inspire the spirits of the warriors of Peace and salvation.  ABU2342

Music is regarded as a praiseworthy science at the Threshold of the Almighty, so that thou mayest chant verses at large gatherings and congregations in a most wondrous melody and raise such hymns of praise at the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar to enrapture the Concourse on High. By virtue of this, consider how much the art of music is admired and praised. Try, if thou canst, to use spiritual melodies, songs and tunes, and to bring the earthly music into harmony with the celestial melody. Then thou wilt notice what a great influence music hath and what heavenly joy and life it conferreth. Strike up such a melody and tune as to cause the nightingales of divine mysteries to be filled with joy and ecstasy.   AB06829

Today illumined and spiritual children are gathered in this meeting. The art of music is divine and effective. It is the food of the soul and spirit. Through the power and charm of music the spirit of man is uplifted. It has wonderful sway and effect in the hearts of children, for their hearts are pure, and melodies have great influence in them. The latent talents with which the hearts of these children are endowed will find expression through the medium of music. Therefore, you must exert yourselves to make them proficient; teach them to sing with excellence and effect. It is incumbent upon each child to know something of music, for without knowledge of this art the melodies of instrument and voice cannot be rightly enjoyed.   ABU0528

In Europe and America music plays an important part in the national and individual life of the nations inhabiting those regions. From the very beginning the educators instill the love of music in the hearts and minds of the children. In their common schools they are taught in a concrete manner the laws of harmony and motion. They memorize many songs and sing them quite unconsciously. Thus when they are grown up they have more or less a cultivated taste for music. If they are not able to play or sing publicly they are at least able to discriminate between the bad and the good music. Almost in every family one finds a piano and as a person passes through their streets he hears the strains of music. The musical profession is much honored by the public and a rare artist is welcomed and greeted by Kings and emperors. Music is a divine art and capable of unlimited progress. It uplifts human soul towards his Maker and opens before the vistas of his eyes, the fair panorama of heavenly Bliss. The parents must see to it that their children are taught the best, classical music, such masterpieces that refine the souls and etherealize the aspirations. The life of a person who has learned to appreciate the artistic value and moral significance of music is redolent with brightness, health and joy. In every object he will see symmetry, proportion, beauty and concord. The sighing of the winds through the pines, the rich and melodious song of the nightingales, the deafening clatter of the cicadas, the croaking of frogs, the sound produced by the mosquitoes by the rapid movements of their wings, the fury and rage of the tempest, the gentle murmur of the rivulets - all of these are to his ears the overtones and undertones of the grand Orchestra of creation. ABU0742


Once during my early childhood I became very sick. At the time, my family lived in Teheran. I was lying in bed in a semi-conscious state. After much consultation the Doctors agreed upon a course of "musical treatment." Before sunset they brought into my room an old man with a very long beard. He carried under his 'Aba' a guitar. He sat near my bed and immediately began to play and sing. All through the night he played and sang, now in high, resonant voice and again in sweet, soft strains. My soul was charmed with his music. During certain hours of the night I opened my eyes and to my surprise I saw him weeping. In the morning I felt better and asked my mother why the musician was weeping? She said: 'He was not a professional artist but a mystic worshipper of the Beloved. His singing was not mechanical, but an outpouring of the joy felt in his heart. His poems were mystic and allegorical addresses to the Adored One. Through his music he spoke to the hearts and quickened and moved them by the power of spirit. He did not make himself a slave of technique or enunciation but he sang the living truth, the eternal reality, hidden in the chambers of human consciousness. In his mysterious way, with the key of life, he opened the secret doors of beatitude and unlocked the gates of the higher and loftier vision.' Soon I became well and strong but the song and music of the mystic artist has ever been with me. ABU0742

