heard the call of the Simurgh from the Mount Qaf of Reality  AB07418

the nightingales of mystic knowledge are warbling upon the branches   BH08143

Past and future in the sight of the people of mystical knowledge are identical with the present.  AB04302

There are three baptisms spoken of by the prophets: the baptism of water, of spirit and of fire.  ABU1576

Between you and me in all worlds there exists a relationship hidden from the eyes of this world.   BB00511

The lights of Truth are shining bright / The sea of Truth is surging high / The face of guidance gleams with light / The bats have taken swift to flight... O Thou my gracious Lord divine /Forgiver, God of me and mine / O Spirit and sweet basil fine / O longing of this heart of mine / O Knower of my hidden shrine / O pain and healing both combine / These friends assembled here are Thine / Effaced, distracted, all are Thine  AB04828

After ascending to the heavens of inner meanings, the wayfarers attain to three stations, meaning that the manifest Sun shines and becomes revealed in the mirrors of existing things according to these three ranks, although some consider the ranks of determinations to be five and have named them the five presences. Were I to explain in detail, a book would not suffice and I would not be able to fulfill it, just as that divine mystic and knower of divine mysteries, the lordly Imam, mentioned a drop from these stations in defining the world of the heart, which has surely come to your noble attention - that the final rank of these three stations is the journey from God unto God. In this station and rank, existence is effaced from self and subsists through the Truth. All are from God and unto God shall they return, and "Say: All things are from God" is sufficient witness and adequate proof of this point, as the mystic of Rum has said:  "The seeker's attributes are annihilated in His attributes, While his essence remains through the survival of His Essence."  This station certainly has no laws and seeks no customs, meaning all His deeds are pure justice even if outwardly they appear as injustice, and pure knowledge even if in form they appear as ignorance.  BH02091

When thou art seized by the rapture of My utterance and hast attained the choice wine of My knowledge  BH05593

through divine grace in this spiritual dawn thou shalt become one who partakes of the wine of inner meanings   BH05740

Since thou hast heard the sweet Hijazi melodies from the Iraqi Countenance, now hearken to the spiritual Shahnaz strains from the divine Falcon, that thou mayest perceive novel songs of faithfulness from the eternal lute and harp, and hear the melody of the divine pipe from the strike of the divine Unity, and step into the lane of the Beloved with all thy heart and soul, until thou becomest all spirit and fliest without wings, and art intoxicated without wine, and speakest eloquently without tongue, and attainest the stations of attraction, longing, ecstasy and taste, until thou forgettest sorrow and drinkest from the ocean of joy.  BH03210

"Kindle the fire of love and burn away all existence, Then take a step and pass through the valley of the lovers"   BH03843

take the crystal goblet in hand, become intoxicated with the pure water, and with the cup whose mixture is camphor  AB11681

Ye must strive, God willing, to drink from the choice wine of inner meanings and to gaze toward the supreme horizon.  BH09215

Through His wisdom, the coincidence of opposites becometh manifest, Love becometh a slave and the Intellect a porter  BH02867

You have drunk the cup of purity, tasted the honey of mystic knowledge, and witnessed the signs of your Lord's mercy.  AB05354

Then shalt thou behold the ocean before thy face and the Lote-Tree of utterance at thy right hand   BH02668

this cup brimful of mystic wine is being borne round and the friends are receiving their share of divine exhilaration   AB04899

The White Hand hath passed round the crimson cups containing the purest wine. Drink ye, O people of My Kingdom   BH08445

become wholly attracted to the colorless realm, and become bewildered by the King of existence and the unlimited Reality  AB11785

When thou dost find the breezes of revelation and drink the choice wine of utterance from the cup of thy Lord's bounty  BH03497

having given me to drink the choice wine of mystical knowledge from the elegant chalice in the gathering of Thy loved ones  AB05920

The eternal Nightingale and the everlasting Dove are manifest and joyous on the right hand of Sinai with resplendent verses.   BH11433

Drink of that which hath flowed from the oceans of grandeur in these hidden words, which have appeared in the form of a chalice   BH06056

The fragrances of inner meanings have wafted and that which was hidden in God's treasury, the Lord of creation, has been manifested   BH07768

praise God that you have become aware of the mysteries of His Holiness Imam Hasan, peace be upon him, and have rent asunder the veil   AB03988

ascended to the unseen realm of the Divine Essence and the Cloud, and mounted to the repository of holiness, nearness and eternity...   BH03677

And the Maid of beauty shone forth even as the dawning sun above the horizon of a resplendent morn. Rejoice! This is the divine Maiden, come with surpassing beauty. She came forth with such adorning as to seize with longing desire the minds of them that are nigh unto God. Rejoice! This is the Maid of Heaven, come with alluring charm.  BH00729

that intimacy may arise between the lover and the beloved, and the custom of separation may fall away between the seeker and the sought  AB04649

Nightingales get drunk of the sound of His enrapturing Call,  And loving souls of one draught of His enrapturing Call, In a fit of ecstasy, the soul conjoineth with the Adored One, As soon as her ears are reached by an echo of His enrapturing Call.  BH02479

crimson-faced beauties with cups of faithful wine are singing, and white-faced maidens with goblets of pure milk move in circles melodiously   BH05736

Become intoxicated with the wine of "Am I not your Lord?" and dance at love's altar crying out "Blessed am I!" and "Would that my people knew!"  AB05080

hearken then with the ear of thy soul to these songs of the divine Nightingale, Who, upon the holy and spiritual branch, warbleth in all melodies  BH07857

Yesterday the Shaykh wandered the city, lamp in hand, Crying: "Weary am I of demon and beast; human company I desire!"  BH01489

O nightingales! While the heaven of mercy is upraised, take wing; while the flower is at market, lament; while the gates of reunion are open, hasten!  BH11031

In this wine are concealed effects and hidden wisdoms. It sanctifies existence from all else save God and at every moment increases one's love for Him.  BH07176

Thou didst behold that spot round which circle the Concourse on High, and didst hear that call which the Son of 'Imran heard on the Mount of Knowledge.   BH09030

The Point of Unity in this age of praise is singing verses of detachment, and the Eternal Dove on the everlasting branch is warbling with Abha raptures.  BH10655

I have journeyed through the unseen worlds and invisible realms of the Almighty collecting New Thoughts, New Conceptions, New Proofs and New Evidences.   ABU1165

By His Name was the Trumpet blown and the seal of the Choice Wine broken - none has attained unto it save those who have held fast to this Extended Cord   BH08406

This Day is mighty, and until they cross over the gulf of names they shall not enter the Most Great Ocean. By the life of God! All are in a strange slumber.  BH04875

Having adorned the food of glory and submission with the spices of unity and sanctification, enter into the verdant, joyous shallow waters of the Beloved Lord, veiled with the veil of light.  BH01905

I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed, Love's fool am I, in all the earth. They call me first among the crazed, Though I once came first for wit and worth. O Love, who sellest me this wine, O Love, for whom I burn and bleed, Love, for whom I cry and pine- Thou the Piper, I the reed. BH04474

"The bird of heaven will warble melodies unknown save by the birds of heaven; then tear asunder the veil and see the realities of things with the eye of God."   AB03061

There upon the mountain, all alone, pray and supplicate with God. There one find the ecstasy of spiritual bliss, supplication, invocation, prayer, inspiration.   ABU3288

Then know that the star is piercing, the heart yearning, the sea surging, the tree blossoming, the House inhabited, the grave filled, and the striving appreciated.   AB04031

He giveth His unified servants to drink of His choice sealed wine, sealed with the finger of His power, and to those near unto Him that which causeth spirits to soar.   BH03115

The sealed flask hath been unsealed by the fingers of might. Blessed is he who in the days of his Lord, the All-Merciful, hath quaffed therefrom the living waters.   BH06775

This is a remembrance from the Tree of Love which has descended upon the shore of the heart, and a fire from the treasury of nearness which is ignited in the Mount of the Tablet   BH11394

Its words were a cup of meanings, and its meanings were the mysteries of divine love. Do not call it a letter - it was pure wine, it was flowers from the garden of faithfulness.   AB02420

stripped bare and free from the allusions of the heaven of ego and the veils of blind imagination, they have arrived at the pavilions of eternality and the hiding places of glory   BH08644

Make me detached from the world and all therein, and grant me shelter and rest in Your protection. Make me independent of all else and grant me a portion and share of Your bounty.  AB02411



the sweet-scented breezes of eternity are stirred from the left side of the Beloved's locks, and the fragrant musk of faithfulness wafts from the right side of the Intended One's hair  BH07539

We have mentioned you before with verses whose fragrance wafts through the gardens of My books, the realms of My utterance, and the kingdom of My remembrance, the mighty, the wondrous.   BH06855

They contained universal meanings and explained the mysteries of divine bounty... and teach the mysteries of divine unity. In the school of mystical knowledge thou wilt explain reality   AB01599

Those who have drunk the choice sealed wine from the hand of the bounty of their Lord, the Self-Subsisting - these are they whom nothing can prevent. They are indeed the triumphant ones.   BH01967

The customs of the spiritual realms have a new pattern and a boundless name. The names of this cycle are limited and the customs of that sanctified cycle are beyond all bounds and measures.  BH06754

It is the melody of the mystic dove that bewilders mind and consciousness, and the sweet fragrance from the gardens of inner meanings that revives divine hearts and gladdens heavenly souls.   AB04011

Take thou the chalice of salvation in the name of the Cleaver of Dawn, then drink therefrom through this Name through which, when it appeared, appeared the mysteries of what was and what will be  BH07254

Mystics, O Mystics! The Unseen, in manifest form, has arrived! The Unseen One--hidden for a hundred centuries on the mystic Mountain top of eternity--Behold him now like the sun in the heavens!   BH04998

O Cup-bearer, proffer the cup of Him Who is He, He! O Minstrel, sing the Name of Him Who is He, He! O Flutist, proclaim to all the multitudes That the world hath yielded to His will, Who is He, He!  BH11895

God hath placed in that Gate a mystery within the most hidden mystery, treasured. Soon shall ye know what ye knew not before, in truth, in the garment of the Sun, by leave of God, the Exalted, soon.  BB00002

Joy upon joy and delight upon delight, for the cup mingled with camphor is passing round, and the soul-refreshing wine of the Forgiving Lord is flowing with utmost delicacy and sweetness like pure water.  AB02058

O nightingales, the Rose is manifest and evident, and O lovers, the Beauty of the Beloved is bright and radiant as the true dawn. Now is the time for singing, now is the time for sacrificing one's life  BH02679


"For members of the Household have drunk deep from the Kawthar of enchantment and quaffed from the ocean of oneness. They have issued forth from the innate Nature and have sprung from the heavenly Branch"  BH06396

Through the removal of the veil this bounty is attained - there is no intermediary. This station of manifestation and effulgence is from the station of "its oil would almost glow though no fire touched it."  AB01947

I swear by the Sun of divine knowledge that hath risen from the horizon of the prison, were they to become cognizant of but a trace of His countless favors, thou wouldst surely behold them all circling round.  BH02072

Thy breast, which is a lamp-niche for the flame of the knowledge of God, is Mount Sinai... And thy heart, which is occupied with the remembrance of the friends, is a mirror reflecting the beauty of the free.   AB11948

O Darvish! Free thyself from the transient world, that thou mayest wing your flight to the everlasting world. Detach thyself from this world that God may cause thee to ascend unto the exalted heaven of holiness.  BH01585

A hundred thousand messengers of God, each one a Moses, cry, "O Lord! Allow my gaze to fall upon Thy Beauty!" and a myriad Holy Spirits, each a Jesus call from within the sacred Vale, "Here am I! Lord, here am I!"  AB03094

Take thou the cup of choice sealed wine and the crimson drink which restored life to the ill-fated dead, and give drink therefrom to those who yearn for it, according to the mystery of thy Lord, the Self-Subsisting.   AB01646

The accents of mystic communion that poured forth from the throat of the love of God reached the ears of these birds of the gardens of ardent yearning, engendering joy and radiance in the hearts of these thankful birds.  AB04415

from the companionship of these two divine subtleties and these two eternal mysteries a third countenance might appear, that the fruition of "We strengthened with a third" might become manifest in the realm of appearance   BH09880

Your Ancient Lord has made this Gate the mystery of the two lights among the last ones, the manifestation of the two appearances in the two mounts, the light in the two foreheads, the illuminator in the two illuminating ones  BB00244

The corner of the tavern of divine love is the resting place of the soul's abode, for the delicate, subtle soul soars only in the atmosphere of the Beloved and finds no dwelling place except the gathering place of the Friend.   BH02318

Bestow a favor that hearts may become the dawning-place of Your face, and breasts may become the burning sanctuaries of the lights of mysteries shining upon inner consciousness, and the radiance of vision may illumine insight.  AB03808

Then upon thee, O Thou Who proves the Essence by the Essence for the Essence, and the Beauty of Attributes in all manifestations, conditions, signs and evidences, by the light of my essence and by what God, my Sovereign, loves.   BB00166

The Sun of Truth has risen from the horizon of oneness. The earth became illumined, the heavens became radiant. The amber-scented breeze wafted, making the spiritual nostrils a mystic rose garden, a secret rosebush, and a flowering meadow.   AB04262

In each letter thereof lies concealed an ocean from among the oceans of inner meanings. Blessed is he who attaineth thereunto and entereth into its depths, stripped of all else save Him, and from which appear the pearls of a luminous sanctity.   BH04003

Love came from the loftiest Tree with the flame of Faran. It came from the Divine Court with the cup of affliction. First It offered the chalice of annihilation to the concourse of lovers, Then It made them immortal by the breath of the Spirit.  BH03242

Until the candle burns it gives no light to the gathering. Until the gazelle of the wilderness of unity roams in the meadow of truth, it produces no fragrant musk. Until the true lover heaves a fiery sigh, he beholds not the beauty of the Beloved  AB03448

Come back and proffer a chalice to this thirsty cup-bearer; To this evanescent soul offer the vessel of immortal life. Consume this vanishing temple and go away in laughter, that through The window of the soul I may behold the cheek of the Beloved.  BH05338

Burn away their veils and turn their gaze away from the earthly world so they may behold the pure realm, gather bouquets of yearning from the mystic rose garden, begin their servitude at Your threshold, harmonize with the songs of the celestial birds  AB01615

Yet I know, O my God, that none can ascend into this atmosphere and no soul can rise into this cloud save through love of Thy loved ones and friendship with Thy chosen ones. For their love is identical with Thy love in the worlds of Command and Creation.   BH01626

that he may be seized by the rapture of the crimson wine from the vessels of Thy mercy in the most exalted company, and sway as one intoxicated, and be gladdened by the melodies of the nightingale of eternity in the highest heaven in the gardens of Thy oneness   AB03892

In this station, one either loses his life and the arrow flies from the bowstring to reach the target of its aim, or weariness overtakes him in this field and he becomes entangled in desires and hopes, ultimately leading to eternal failure and everlasting loss.  AB11741

I journeyed from Thee unto Thee, and by Thee I migrated toward Thee, until I arrived at the unseen Essence and the pure Face of the Self-Subsisting, and I recognized all stations in all that Thou hadst created in the dominion of Thy power and the kingdom of Thy might   BH02468

Rend your garment in love of the Beloved and soar to the horizon of ancient glory...and the drops of the cloud of bounty rain down and adorn the garden of unity and the cypress by the stream of oneness grows tall and the nightingale of the rose garden of grace laments   AB01927

However, because thou art enamoured with the manifest Beauty and hast surrendered thy heart to the evident Beloved, they are wandering, aimlessly and perplexedly, in the wilderness of longing. Thou hast become a lover of the rose-garden of Divine nearness and presence.   AB11950

And verily We know that which no one knoweth besides Us and the Person of the Gate, and verily God hath ever been, in truth, All-Knowing. Do you not reflect upon the creation of the heavens and your own selves, with a swift reflection, in truth, with truth, through truth?  BB00002

Listen with the ear of your heart to what the dove warbles on the pole of infinity, insofar as it has taught you the paths of truth on that route that was raised up in light. Attest to this Tablet with the tongue of spirit so that you might be radiant with the fire of love.   BH03457

We are birds tamed by Thee, we are fish in Thy net, we are cup-bearers of Thy chalice. We are wanderers in Thy prison, we are guardians of Thy Egypt, we are treasurers of Thy mystery. We are drinkers of Thy cup, we are bearers of Thy throne, we are observers of Thy treasure.  BH11587

and by it the Dove warbled upon the twigs of the Lote-Tree of the Uttermost End, and the Cock of the Throne crowed in the paradise of eternity, and the Tree of Sinai was set ablaze and spoke that there is no God but Him, the Powerful, the Exalted, the Mighty, the Omnipotent.   BH03920

Through its fragrance, the divine perfumes and holy celestial scents have perfumed and adorned the atmosphere of sacred divine existence. It seems the heavenly Kawthar of the All-Merciful and the pure water of the absolute Paradise have been perfumed by this enchanting fragrance.  BH03204

The prophecies of the Coming of Christ were mystical. The prophecies concerning the Second Coming are also mystical. The earthquakes and unrest, the darkening of the sun and moon, the falling of the stars -- all these foretell the humiliation of those whom the world considers great.   ABU0092

O birds of the garden of truth, wing your flight to the rose garden of inner meanings! O wanderers, enter your true homeland! O ye who are distant, be delivered from the realm of deprivation and become intimate companions in the divine retreat! O thirsty fish, enter the boundless ocean!   AB05854

With harp and with song, with crimson goblet she came. With glances of love, with the taste of death-with dance and with song she came. With musky tresses, with ruby lips-from nigh unto God she came. Two daggers her eyebrows, a hundred arrows from her lashes-to pierce our hearts she came.  BH02000

Then did she become separated but not divided, and detached, and was split asunder from the crimson pillar, and shone forth and radiated and gleamed and illumined and resounded and reverberated and sparkled and glistened and thundered forth in her might and separated in her distinction...   BB00155

The sea of glory shall freeze, the fire of virtue shall be extinguished, trees shall be uprooted, fruits shall be scattered, stars shall be effaced, suns shall be eclipsed, the Tablet's maiden shall cast aside her veil in the year of hardship, and titles shall become the cause of punishment.  AB04171

When thy musk-laden pen remembers us, It earns the reward of freeing two hundred slaves... Was this musk-laden breeze from Paradise that made all we possessed paradisiacal? Or was this the blast of the trumpet from the Tree of Sinai that made us transcend our very souls and join the Beloved?   BH01734

How long, O my God, shall I melt in the fire of separation and burn in the flames of the fires of longing? At such time I call upon Thee with the tongue wherewith Thy servants who yearn for the sanctuary of Thy presence and who stand firm before the Kaaba of reunion with Thee do call upon Thee  BH04357

God willing, may you return to the land of emergence from the realm of dawning through the melody of the eternal dove from the Orient of the everlasting heaven's splendor, with holy breaths from the divine cloud, from the essence of the city of faithfulness and the core of the garden of meeting  BH09268

Before them, the books of contingent existence are as a mere letter, and the ocean of utterance as but a single cup, for they have withdrawn from contingent existence and chosen seclusion in the realm beyond space. The vat cannot satisfy love's hangover, nor can the ocean cool the heat of longing.  BH01176

that they may rejoice in the manifest Word and make mention of the all-embracing Word, so that the seas and waves may be reminded by your remembrance, that they may be seated upon the crimson carpet and rest upon white cushions, for this is the sweetness of existence and divine joy and heavenly gift   BH10408

From the sweet-scented streams of Thine eternity give me to drink, O my God, and of the fruits of the tree of Thy being enable me to taste, O my Hope! From the crystal springs of Thy love suffer me to quaff, O my Glory, and beneath the shadow of Thine everlasting providence let me abide, O my Light!   BH06296

The Maid of Eternity hath removed the veil from her face. How glorified is the peerless, the wondrous beauty of her countenance! From the earth below the beaming brightness of her face hath shed its radiance upon the clouds. And there flashed the darts of her glances, like unto the darts of meteors.   BH01966

This is the realm of pure awareness and utter self-effacement. Not even love can find a way to this plane, nor doth affection have a place therein. Wherefore is it said: "Love is a veil betwixt the lover and the beloved." Here love becometh but an obstructing veil, and aught save the Friend but a curtain.   BH00306

Journey through the depths of the seas and the ocean of mysteries, and explore the vast deep, that thou mayest witness wondrous signs and brilliant manifestations, until thou reachest the shore of the Kingdom, the coast of the Lord of the Realm of Might, the haven of eternity, the world of the divine cloud  AB00786

Thus did they join the righteous and enter the garden of mysteries where they plucked the flowers and tasted the fruits, and heard the melodies of the birds and the vibration of the strings through the mystical flute that delights the ears, refreshes the spirits and brings life to the hearts of the virtuous  AB01447

At times it is transformed by the winds and wafteth from the direction of the Ridvan, and at times the fragrance of the garment is diffused from it, and at times there appeareth from it the decree of fire and the hearts of the sincere are consumed by it in their love for God, the King, the Mighty, the Beautiful.  BH02350

verily bewilderment is beloved in the Book, as expressed in His words "Increase my bewilderment in Thee!" Know thou in what place thou dost find thyself, morning and evening, in the vicinity of thy Lord's mercy, the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful. God willing, may your bewilderment also be in the knowledge of God.  BH10641

Thou hast applied to thine eyes the holy dust which is the collyrium of insight for the chosen ones of God, and made the perfumed dust the brightening of thy vision. Thou hast entered beneath the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree and been sustained by the fruits of the blessed Tree, neither of the East nor of the West.   AB11905

From this profitless sphere naught ariseth save poison, and from mortal pain no immortal draught floweth forth. Should the Spirit of Jesus hear from the royal falcon of the Kingdom the holy melody, surely He would cry out from the depth of His soul and, like the spirit of lovers, would be stirred to passionate ardor.  BH02382

The true Layli appears with radiant countenance, and the spiritual Majnun is renowned with burning heart. The nightingale of the divine rose garden harmonizes with spiritual melodies, and the celestial songbird intimately communes with the divine rose. From every direction comes the sound of song and melody, and from every quarter the hearts of lovers are consumed in burning passion, and from every branch rises the sound of lute and song, and from every palace the strains of harp and lyre. AB02748

O wanderer in the wilderness of love! The brilliant missive which you had written to his honor Darvish, upon him be the Glory of God, was perused. From the gardens of its expressions and words, a perfumed fragrance reached the nostrils, and from its spiritual garden of meanings, a sweet and enchanting aroma entered the soul.  AB09397

'Tis from Our rapture that the clouds of realms above are raining down; 'Tis from Our anthem that the mysteries of faith are raining down. Upon the Eastern wind Cathay's entrancing musk doth waft; This sweetly scented breeze from Our curling locks is raining down. BH03230

Indeed, each soul has an ordained capacity and every thing has a fitting rank and station wherein it is mentioned. However, some are given a prescribed sustenance according to a known measure and reckoning, while others receive an undefined portion from the treasury of "Thou givest sustenance to whom Thou willest without account."   BH02611

Take the divine wine from the hand of the mystical Cup-bearer, and partake of the heavenly feast from the table of divine bounty. Gather the good fruits from the blessed tree in the highest paradise, and inhale the fragrances of the flowers in the garden of inner meanings through the grace of the morning breeze of the All-Merciful   AB03169

Through Him were the heavens raised up and from the earth were revealed treasures of transcendent glory. Through Him were the clouds lifted up, the sun did shine, and the moon of the Cause gleamed forth from a holy and luminous dayspring. Through Him did rivers flow, seas surge, and fire appear from the Divine Lote Tree made manifest.   BH01804

They have traversed the Lote Tree of the utmost realm of love at the beginning of their journey and have perceived the ultimate goal of divine knowledge from the Tree of Paradise. They have found the sweet fruits of immortality from the dawning-place of the soul and have chosen solitude with the Beloved in the throne of the placeless realm.   BH02404

And I felt it stirring around my right ear as though it had come with glad tidings from God, the King, the Mighty, the Beautiful. When I turned my ear toward it, by God, it gave me such joyous tidings that I could not remain still within myself. I trembled, and everything that had been created between the heavens and the earth trembled with me.  BH06518

O my God! Thou art Thou - I have known Thee not through other than Thee. Thou art Thou - I have loved Thee not through other than Thee. Thou art Thou - I have desired Thee not through other than Thee. Glory be unto Thee! If I should mention the remembrance of love for myself rather than Thy Self, then there would be a veil between me and Thee.   BB00342

Hearken to the murmuring of the waters of inner meanings which flow in the paradise of thy Lord, the All-Merciful. By God! Through its murmuring the hearts of the Concourse on High were attracted and the hearts of those who drank the choice wine of the Most Glorious from the Youth Who was named with Our Most Exalted Name were set ablaze.  BH01902

However, some among the ancients through the power of detachment gained knowledge of certain cosmic mysteries and obtained awareness of relationships and connections that exist between created things - they became aware of certain hidden secrets in the realities of things and deduced some future events from the relationships between existing things.  AB03340

That the friends of the True Beloved shall join the ranks of the true lovers, that the majesty of their exaltation shall cause them, amongst all the dwellers of the heavens and the earth, to be reknowned as angels of mercy, armies of the confirmations and guidance of the God of Majesty, birds of the garden of fidelity, and stars of the heaven of guidance.  AB01734

In this stage, which marketh the beginning of the journey, thou shalt behold divers stations and differing signs, even as was mentioned in connection with the City of Search. All these hold true in their respective planes. It behoveth thine eminence in this station to consider each created thing in its own place, neither abasing nor exalting its true rank.  BH00012

The Primal Point, after traversing the realms of the Kingdom, appeared adorned with the seal of finality, and from its composition diverse forms became manifest, culminating in the Most Great Form. And from the different forms that were brought into being through the marriage of the Single Point, that which pertained to the Treasury remained in its own dwellings.   BH10654

Praise be to God that we have drunk the crimson wine from the cup of glory and the sweet white water from the chalices of the cloud of mystery. And whatsoever pearls of oneness and glorification you had concealed within the shell of might and praise became manifest, and whatever rare jewels and subtle allusions that were treasured in the seas of words were mentioned.  BH04304

The mystics believed in the station of Truth and creation, saying there is no third between them and no third besides them. They described Truth as like an ocean and created things as waves. But the holy Manifestations in the world of creation spoke of a third station which is the station of Will and the medium for the outpouring of the unknowable, imperceptible Mystery.   ABU0678

O essence of love! Should anyone ask thee what thou hast gained from thy journey, turn thy face from him and say: God hath sanctified our souls from all that ye have known, and we have attained unto a station recorded in the Mother Book in hidden script. We have soared in the atmosphere of reunion until we reached a city whose gates God hath shut against the likes of thee.  BH00777

The book of mystical knowledge hath been sent down from the Countenance of Certitude. It carried away the heart and bestowed the spirit, it bore away strength and granted power. It seemed as though a letter thereof was an ocean, giving the water of life to the thirsty ones in the valley of love, and bestowing the wine of reunion upon the wanderers in the land of separation.   BH03390

And besides this they have desired with petty, divided minds to understand stages and stations that are concealed even from the Universal Mind. And when these stages cannot be contained in the narrow defiles of their infirm minds, they deny them and this despite the fact that their limbs, organs and all their component parts testify to the truth of these stages and stations.  AB00006

The gardens of the Kingdom were adorned, the pools of the Realm of Might overflowed, the sacred groves were embellished, the doves of Paradise warbled, the nightingales in the garden of the All-Highest trilled, the Most Great Sea surged, the Most Noble River flowed, the Ancient Luminary rose and shone forth, and the Ancient Moon blazed and appeared, dazzling with brilliant light.   AB02839

We have willed to bestow upon thee a remembrance of what We have seen, that thou mayest behold the luminous world within this world of darkness and be assured that We have worlds within this world, and that thou mayest thank thy Lord, the All-Informed. Verily, were He to desire to manifest from an atom the lights of the sun, and from a drop the waves of the sea, He is able to do so.  BH01325

The tree of paradise is in motion - O birds, it is time! The gates of the eternal realm are opened - O ye who are far from the wilderness of annihilation, it is time! The cupbearer of eternity standeth transfixed with the cup of meeting - make haste, O ye who thirst on the journey of destruction! The Ancient Beauty is seated upon the Most Great Throne - present yourselves before His face!  BH11624

In that station, place thy face upon the dust before the Lord of Lords and sanctify thy soul and spirit from all coming and going, that thy heart may be purified from all causes in the realms of creation. In the fifth, ascend to the heaven of wonderment that thou mayest taste sweet fruits in this holy atmosphere and become bewildered at the power of thy Beloved and the sovereignty of thy Creator.  BH02028

And assuredly these holy souls will be raised up and these brilliant stars will rise and these illumined lamps will be lit and these holy fragrances will waft forth in time and this life-giving breeze will blow and in the divine gardens these spiritual flowers will bloom with radiant faces until we see who shall receive this cup of bounty and upon whose head this crown of greatest gift shall be placed.  AB02906

The trustworthy messenger caused the musk-scented letter to ascend with one feather from the heavens of existence and descend to the earth of manifestation. This is the journey of the physical messenger who, in one moment, graciously descended from the highest Sadratu'l-Muntaha to the lowest supreme height. What would happen if the spiritual courier were to move with the Buraq of love and display its majesty!  BH05442

The complete tradition is not now before me, and the exposition of Al-Mufaddal descendeth not from the precincts near the heart, as I am in the prison-land amidst the mountains. But know thou that the wisdom of this tradition for the world of contingent being is of profound depth, and it hath a pivot around which it turneth, and it is this passage in the tradition: "Neither is She He, nor is He other than She."   BB00140

What shall I write that the pen might become privy to mysteries and ink become the interpreter of the heart? Alas! Alas! How can mineral and plant possess the power to unveil secrets, and what capacity have pen and paper to become intimate with inner mysteries? Therefore it is better that we entrust the discovery of this sealed secret to the mirror of the Most Glorious Beauty's countenance - that is, to the pure heart.  AB07789

I have drunk from the Kawthar of Life from cups passed round by the attraction of utterance. Blessed is he who gave me to drink! It was as though these cups were circling round the love of God, and in their nature was the nature of iron. When I saw them soaring in the atmosphere of remembrance and utterance without any intention of their own, it was as if they were drawn by the magnet of our Lord's will, the Bestower, the Generous.  BH01468

If form without meaning is desired, there are many Indian portraits, and in Baghdad their pages are sold in the auction market for less than a tenth of a dinar. But if meaning is sought and intended, it must have manifestation and appearance, that the north winds of the holy cloud-heaven might take their portion from the curling locks of hair, and the precious curls of mighty radiance might receive their share from the perfumed fragrance of its glory.  BH03778

That bounded sea of familiar water was not there with God in the first creation that He might intend it, for it is the final rank in the descent of the water of divine manifestation. The first station is the Sea of Names, which is the All-Encompassing Sea - the Name of the One Who Seeks Help. And when the number of manifestation completes four cycles, there appears the Name of the One Who Seeks Help twice along with the name of the Lord, exalted be He.   BB00047

We wept immeasurably, beyond the reckoning of time, eternity past or future, ages or epochs. When she ceased her weeping, she said: "O youth, I adjure thee by Him Who hath subjected the Pens to the grasp of Thy power and established through them whatsoever He hath willed and desired, to tell me what hath befallen thee, that I may be a companion in thy tribulations and one who remembereth thy afflictions in the most exalted Concourse and the most sublime Dominion."   BH00454

If thou seekest the Friend, free thyself from the veil of fancy and intimacy with strangers. If thou seekest the light of the Sun of the Beloved, cease circling around the light of the candle. And when the mirage of fancy and imagination hath sufficed thee in place of the sweet waters of Beauty, seek not to soar with those who wing their flight in the atmosphere of love, nor desire companionship with those who have laid down their lives at the gallows of extinction.  BH08129

He hath journeyed through the pure city of the Sheba of love as it truly is, and hath fully comprehended the phoenix of the heaven of existence. He hath beheld the mighty ocean of unity as though it were a stream, and regarded the sun of the exaltation of glorification as though it were but a star. At times he hath observed the levels of the supreme throne in the depths of the nethermost earth, and at times he hath rent asunder the veils of the pavilions of might and majesty.   BH04651

One day I entered the Qumri Mosque (which was beside the river near the Blessed House) and saw someone engaged in reciting one of the suras of the Glorious Quran, unveiling divine mysteries without any covering or veil. I wished to stop him but saw that neither the speaker nor the listener was aware, and that sealed wine, though ever in people's hands, remained sealed such that none had touched it save the pure ones, and none had inhaled its sweet fragrance save those drawn nigh.  BHU0006

He hath perfected through His wisdom's handiwork the hidden crafts in all things, that the tongues of all things might proclaim His power upon the appearance of His manifestation in the Blessed Tree on Mount Sinai upon a letter from the crimson pillar. There is no God but He! And He hath made manifest through His power the essences of all created things from the innermost eternity for the knowledge of the Essence by the Essence through effacement detached from all names and attributes  BB00084

When God, glorified be He, desired to create the Gates for the completion of the Message from the Most Great Word unto all, He revealed unto Me concerning a handful of this red earth: O Word of God! Arise upon the Mount and manifest from the light of manifestation less than a needle's eye of the All-Forgiving upon these temples standing at the gate of the Frequented House, that the people of witnessing may bear witness to the Promised Word of God, the Worshipped One, even as God hath testified of Himself that there is no God but He.  BB00237

Turn ye wholly toward Him, and receive bounty from His nature, that ye may behold the fire of Moses, witness the flame of Sinai, inhale the breath of the Messiah, see the garden of Abraham, observe the blood sacrifice of John son of Zacharias, find the fountain of life of Khidr, contemplate the sacrifice of the Offering, perceive the beauty of Joseph, hear the sighing and lamentation of Jacob, know the affliction and sorrow of Job, establish the lesson of Enoch, understand the intensity of Eve's separation, and recognize the chastity and purity of Mary.   AB04064

At that time, ascend with the spirit of light within thy heart, then mount up unto God in the inmost secrets of thy being, that neither thy soul, nor thy heart, nor thy body, nor thy mind, nor aught else that is thine may turn away. This is the true meaning of ascension in the stages of journeying and the ultimate bounty of God, the Powerful, the Supreme, the Compelling, that thou mayest become the narrator of the sun of His beauty, the guide to the moon of His majesty, the beholder of the garments of His Essence, and the witness to the light of His mystery.  BH06432

He was not a professional artist but a mystic worshipper of the Beloved. His singing was not mechanical, but an outpouring of the joy felt in his heart. His poems were mystic and allegorical addresses to the Adored One. Through his music he spoke to the hearts and quickened and moved them by the power of spirit. He did not make himself a slave of technique or enunciation but he sang the living truth, the eternal reality, hidden in the chambers of human consciousness. In his mysterious way, with the key of life, he opened the secret doors of beatitude and unlocked the gates of the higher and loftier vision.  ABU0742

When that which had been preordained in Thy Book came to pass Thou didst cause Me, through Thy kindness, to reach Thy holy precincts and didst suffer Me, through Thy tender mercy, to dwell within the court of fellowship, until I discerned therein that which I witnessed of the clear tokens of Thy mercifulness, the compelling evidences of Thy oneness, the effulgent splendours of Thy majesty, the source of Thy supreme singleness, the heights of Thy transcendent sovereignty, the signs of Thy peerlessness, the manifestations of Thine exalted glory, the retreats of Thy sanctity, and whatsoever is inscrutable to all but Thee.  BB00485

Today all the mystics who have claimed and still claim to possess mystical knowledge have contented themselves with the knowledge of an imaginary Invisible One, and with a mere word have they satisfied themselves in lieu of the spiritual realms. They have not yet grasped this truth: that every invisible must have a visible manifestation, and every word must possess a meaning. A word bereft of meaning can never yield fruit, and an imaginary invisible can never bestow wealth. Therefore the people of truth who hold fast unto the Truth must recognize the Beloved in His new attire, and hasten with heart and soul to His love   BH01099

By Him Who breathed the spirit of eternity into this most mighty trumpet and this most honored and exalted horn! If thou shouldst enter therein, or if its lights should shine upon thy heart, thou wouldst abide within the sanctuary of God and stand firm in the Cause of God, and become everlasting in the realms of creation and the manifestations of grandeur. How blessed art thou, shouldst thou enter this eternal garden of the Ever-Living One, that thou mayest drink what none in all the worlds hath drunk and witness what none among those of old hath witnessed. Then say: Praise be to God, the Beloved of the mystics and the Goal of the sincere ones!  BH11889

The verses were perused. They were in the utmost eloquence and excellence, and in perfect fluency and sweetness. But mention of this servant was also appended. The poet Ibn al-Farid says: Take it pure, and if you wish to mix it, then to turn from the beloved's pure water would be tyranny. That is, you must drink that divine wine pure and unmixed; do not mix it with anything else. And if you wish to mix it, do not go beyond the water from the beloved's mouth, for that would be the essence of tyranny. Now you too should partake of this spiritual wine in its pure form - its potency is stronger, its sweetness greater, and its exhilaration more powerful.  AB09849

Write thou to the remote questioner, who is far removed from the light of perception, that God hath created the point of knowledge of substances and derivatives from the water of this pure, manifest sea, descending from the clouds of attributes and praises, and upon the path of sprinkling through the sprinkling sprinkled from the primal drop. God hath not created anything save that the thing might know the knowability of its Creator within itself and might recognize His purpose in the creation of multiplicities and the descent of things from the plane of beginning to infinities and finalities, lest anything be ignorant of anything. All have known the mystery of the Gate in everything.  BB00244

God the One is My witness that from the moment this evanescent servant attained unto the wine of inner meaning, the fragrances of longing and desire and the sweet-scented breezes of attraction and ecstasy did so powerfully prevail that pen and tongue are powerless to describe them. How many were the days when, in the wilderness of separation, he was consumed by the fire of remoteness, and how many were the nights when, aflame with yearning, he beheld himself like unto a fish writhing upon the sand, until the hand of grace, wholly unmerited, drew this evanescent atom to the eternal realm. A world other than this world was witnessed, and utterances sanctified from letters and words were heard.   BH01233

However, in the divine Tablets mention is made of the station of annihilation of self and subsistence in God. The meaning of annihilation in the divine Tablets is that man should wholly annihilate himself in God-that is, become detached from all things and sacrifice to God his spirit, heart, body, comfort, joy, bounty, glory, and all personal conditions. He should transcend the pleasures and promptings of the mortal world, become divested of his human conditions, be kindled with the fire of the love of God, open his tongue in praise and glorification of God, become resplendent with the attributes of sanctity and detachment, and occupy himself with his own spiritual growth and the guidance of souls.  AB00235

Know thou the mystery of truth: The wayfarer in the realm of eternity, with the eye of eternity, crosseth the Bridge; the wayfarer in the realm of perpetuity, with the eye of perpetuity, crosseth the Bridge; the wayfarer in the realm of sempiternity, with the eye of sempiternity, crosseth the Bridge; and the wayfarer with the eye of everlastingness crosseth the Bridge. Then descend until thou findest the crossing of the Bridge within the span of a moment's creation. All these manifestations appear in human form and cross in a single instant, yet this one is in the realm of eternity, that one in the realm of perpetuity, another in the realm of sempiternity, yet another in the realm of everlastingness, this one in the realm of time, and that one in limited time.  BB00506

In this hour and time when this Bird took flight from the nest of silence and stillness to soar in the sacred atmosphere of divine melody, and all the oceans of the unseen silence are melted by the tune of the fire of love, and with spiritual wings It soars in the heavenly wilderness, and whatever is other than the Friend - even to marrow and skin - is reduced to absolute nothingness, that It may wing its flight in the holy atmosphere of except, and call out to all the lovers in the path of the Beloved, that all existence may become detached and return to the Source of existence, and offer heart and soul as gifts to the dust of the path of the Friend, and hear the melody of the nightingale of the soul in the branches of the placeless realm, and inhale the divine spirit from the right hand of oneness.  BH03094

Know thou that in the hidden depths of this blessed verse, this perfect word, this mystic call, and this heavenly melody flow rivers of mysteries without beginning or end, for they stream from the mountain of eternity and flow from the pure spring that wells forth and courses from the right hand of the throne of the Most Great Name. Were this Most Learned Pen to attempt to expound the radiant meanings that dawn from the Most Generous Horizon and the Most Glorious Morn, glowing with lights that shine from the Dayspring of the utterance of the Lord of Eternity, through melodies God hath created in His hidden secret and tones He hath ordained in His most deeply concealed mystery - the seas of existence would be exhausted as ink, the tablets of the unseen and the seen would be rolled up as a scroll, yet not a wave from this surging, tempestuous ocean would be stilled, nor would a drop from this overflowing, gushing river be depleted.  AB00017

Still others, without having perused a single letter of the kingdom of names or acquired the faintest intimation from the realm of attributes, which pertaineth to this world, dawn above the invisible horizon of eternity and return again thereunto. A hundred thousand seas of glory surge in their luminous hearts, and yet to outward seeming their lips are parched; a myriad rivers of holiness stream within their breasts, and yet no trace thereof is to be seen; the books of God's consummate wisdom are recorded upon the tablets of their hearts, and yet they breathe not a word thereof in the world of appearances. They dwell in the Egypt of certitude and journey in the lands of resignation. They are intoxicated with the beauty, and entranced by the glory, of Him Who is the All-Glorious. Heart to heart they whisper hidden secrets; soul to soul they unfold abstruse matters. The mysteries of the Divine Essence glow upon their brows, and the lights of Divine Unity shine from their peerless faces.  BH01050




You have drunk the wine of wisdom from the divine chalice and goblet, and partaken of the living waters from the spring of recognition.  AB07470

You drink aged wine in the tavern of the love of God, while I am in the winehouse of servitude to Baha, with torn collar, naked, mad and intoxicated   AB05687

most assuredly the saints and mystics had real experiences. The proof of the experience was its fruit. If the result was spiritual we might know the experience was from God.   ABU2794

Therefore, O seeker of the countenance of Truth, make ready thy receptive sense of smell, that this life-bestowing fragrance may enter thy mind and thy spirit may find new life.  AB08564

At a time when the people of mystical knowledge were resting in the cradle of peace and security, Shaykh Shabistari composed a poem which was truly inspired by divine revelation. It is this:  "If 'I am the True One' be permitted from a tree / Why should it not be permitted from one of blessed destiny?"  AB08274

As to the belief of the American Indians in the Great Spirit, this is explained by the fact that worship is inherent in the nature of man, who must have something above himself upon which he may depend. Even men who are unconscious of this and deny it, depend upon it notwithstanding.  ABU2395

Now, praise be to God, the spirit of reality has permeated and bestowed eternal life. The manifest light has cast its rays and illumined the region. The life-giving breeze is wafting from the direction of grace.   AB01985

You have drunk from the wine of bounty and tasted the sweetness of the grace and gift of the King of Oneness. You have found repose in the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree and reached the shore of the Sea of Eternity  AB06752

circle the precincts of the Supreme Concourse, press your face upon the dust of the Most Exalted Threshold, perfume your senses with the holy fragrances in the luminous spot, become ignited by the fire kindled in the Lote Tree of Sinai, and taste the fruit of the highest Paradise  AB05904

If that Loving Friend should, by the hand of His will, lift the veil from the countenance of His true lovers and remove all coverings, then wouldst thou behold hosts of enchanting ones who are the cause of tumult throughout all regions and the source of commotion and excitement in both worlds.  AB08529

Although the Sun of Truth is outwardly veiled by the clouds of concealment, when you look with seeing eyes, listen with hearing ears, and ponder with an aware heart, you will perceive that the rays of the Most Great Luminary have grown more intense and the light of the divine lamp has become brighter.  AB02019

Cast off these doubtful garments from the temple of existence and swim in this boundless ocean and plunge into the depths of this vast sea, that you may obtain the pearls of light and the hidden gems of the All-Forgiving Lord, becoming intimate with the fish of that Most Great Ocean and harmonious with the whale of the Divine Sea.   AB06784

Soar like a falcon in the heights of endless glory and hunt both bird and fish - the bird that wings through the atmosphere of the love of God, the fish that is the heart swimming in the ocean of the knowledge of God.  AB08617

We beseech God to provide thee with the wine of immortality which hath gushed forth from the springs of glory, that its intoxication may attract thee and its stupor may seize thee - and this is an intoxication that will never pass away nor change eternally.  BH11878

The peacock of the holy garden hath spread its wings in the midst of Paradise - blessed be they who behold! The Tree of Life hath brought forth fruits the like of which the eye of creation hath never seen - blessed be they who partake thereof! The heart of contingent being hath been drawn by the radiance of a Face that hath illumined all who dwell within the realm of possibility - blessed be they who perceive!  AB09680

Indeed, the sign of His dominion manifest in a speck of dust can scarce be bound by restrictions or confined under the sovereignty of limitations. Were it not for this sanctified glory, His might, sovereignty, power and proof would be but an insubstantial shadow or delusions afflicting the sick, failing to quench any thirst. The divine musk-laden breeze wafting from the gardens of salutation guides to the luminous reality, the eternal rapture, the merciful essence, the divine jewel, and the heavenly power which has rent asunder every veil, parted every cloud, broken every chain, and freed every neck.   AB00039



