This is a Day wherein We have made the highest among the people their lowest, and their lowest their highest  BH03555

This is why it was said aforetime: "We shall make their highest ones their lowest ones, and their lowest ones their highest ones."  BH06912

Regard thou, O friend, the mystery of the Great Reversal in the Sign of the Sovereign. Through this reversal He hath caused the exalted to be abased and the abased to be exalted.  BH01217

This is a Day wherein We have made the highest among the people lowest, and the lowest highest. How many were possessed of glory who were turned away from the door, and how many were abased who entered and attained, exclaiming: "Praise be to God Who hath made me to achieve this noble vision!"   BH03620

This is the truth. But we must know also that in the divine tests, changes always come; the great among us have to fall down, and the low ones have to rise. This has been shown in all the Manifestations of the past. In the Koran it says that when the great test comes, the high will fall low, and the low will rise high.   ABU3179

This is a Day wherein God hath made the highest among the people lowest, and the lowest highest. Observe how many souls who deemed themselves to have ascended to the loftiest heights of knowledge and learning remained yet veiled from the Sun of Truth, while how many whose names were never mentioned, after the call of the Lord of Names was raised between earth and heaven, turned to the most exalted horizon and quaffed the purest wine   BH02735

A shepherd was made Abu-Dharr Ghifari, a date-dealer became 'Ammar ibn Yasir, a prisoner became Salman Fars, a fisherman was elevated to become the great Peter, and there are many others like them. These are among the uncommon characters of the time of the Manifestation, for such things do not occur at other times. Such days only come at the beginning of the Dispensation. "The abased amongst you, He shall exalt; and they that are exalted, He shall abase." The "mystery of the Great Reversal in the Sign of the Sovereign," "And we were minded to show favor to those who were brought low in the land, and to make them spiritual chiefs, and to make them Pharaoh's heirs." These people are weak; I wish to create men out of them. These are among the prodigies and miracles of each Manifestation.   ABU0533
