As to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, it is of great import. The purpose is this: a location should be designated, even if it be a small place beneath layers of earth and stone, and it should, out of prudence, be kept hidden and concealed, lest it foment hostility among the people of sedition. At least once per week, it should become the gathering-place of the chosen friends who have discovered the secrets and become the intimates of mysteries. It may assume any form, for even if it be an underground pit, that pit shall become even as a sheltering paradise, an exalted meadow, and a garden of delight. It shall become a place of the gladdening of the spirit, and the centre of the attraction of the hearts to the Kingdom.  AB12083

On the Day of Manifestation, the trumpet was sounded and the bugle was blown. Both the assured and the doubtful were gathered together, but the assured one awakened and became conscious, became aware of death and life, crossed over the bridge, and entered the paradise of sanctification. But the heedless remained unaware of both death and life, and "they perceive not when they shall be raised." AB10105


A spiritual fragrance is wafting toward the souls--that is, from the gardens of the Abha Kingdom holy breathings are being diffused and the nostrils of the people of Paradise are stirred and perfumed. This fragrance bestoweth life and conferreth eternal existence. AB08735

O falcon of the heaven of the love of God! Now is the time for flight and the discovery of divine mysteries. AB07901

O thou who wanderest in the wilderness of signs and swimmest in the seas of mysteries! How canst thou be perplexed when thou art like a fish in the depths of this sweet and flowing sea? By thy life! If for a moment thou wouldst turn thy gaze toward the Kingdom of God from which the gates have been opened, the glad-tidings of the Glorious Lord would seize thee and the melodies of that matchless Garden would attract thee with such power that thou wouldst rend thy garments and tatters, cast off all restraint, and cry out: "Hasten to witness the Unseen made manifest! Hasten to the water that hath been poured forth! Hasten to the support that hath been granted! Hasten to the glorious station beneath this raised standard and under this outstretched shade!" AB03297

Thou art a servant of the divine threshold and art fully aware of the mystery of spiritual truth. Strive with all thy power in prayers and communions at the hour of dawn to increase thine alertness day by day, to strip away the misgivings that veil the people of doubt and lead them towards the Most Great Guide with the potent knowledge of God so that like unto a candle thou mayest illuminate every meeting with the light of recognition. AB09240

Open the eye of insight and behold the light of truth. The effects of the outpourings of the Abha Kingdom have encompassed the hidden world and the universe. And when thou discoverest such an outpouring rain and fountain of mysteries, say: "Glorified, Holy is the Lord of the angels and the Spirit!" The eye of the Ancient Beauty's loving-kindness is open, and His grace and bounty encompass every free servant. AB10058


Wander and roam in this endless desert, and in this destination of the people of knowledge, seek your dwelling and abode. Drink from the living waters from the spring of certitude, and from this tree of certitude pluck the fruit of the highest heaven. The door of bounty is open and the glad tidings of the invisible Kingdom are continuous and successive. When you reach the shore of the sea of life, fill your skirt with the pearls from the shells of grace, so that those brilliant jewels may shine forth in the crowns of existence. AB07438


With a detached heart, an attracted spirit, and an enkindled soul, burning with the fire that was ignited on Mount Sinai, seek the outpourings of the Spirit from all directions. Verily I say unto thee, the mysteries of the divine Spirit will be unveiled to thee, thy radiant heart will be stirred, and thou wilt say: "Praise be to God, the Lord of the worlds!"  AB09649

The mystery of servitude is revealed when the light of the Divine Identity shines forth upon the world of the heart and the lamp of reality is kindled within the inner chamber of the soul. When its radiance touches the tongue, utterance becomes the essence of Divine Unity, and when its rays fall upon the pillars of being, there proceed such deeds, actions, ways, conduct and behavior as constitute the very life of existence. And when it casts its effulgence upon the realm of minds, the mysteries of the seen and unseen become manifest. AB08792

This is the Day in which the Beloved Who declared "Thou shalt not see Me" now proclaims "Look and thou shalt see Me."   BH05317

So, when one is spiritually developed, a sublimity of nature is obtained, a delicacy of vision such as could not otherwise be found.  ABU1963

The time hath come for thee to witness all the signs within thine inmost being and to observe all the signs in the universe in every atom  AB08269

The divine spirit which is from God's command refers to the holy power, divine confirmations, eternal assistance, divine knowledge and heavenly sciences with which God aids whomever He wishes among His righteous servants. Through it they attain spiritual unveilings and certain visions, and they achieve complete, precedent mercy and abundant grace. They enter the paradise of oneness and the eternal garden where they rejoice and delight in what God has given them of His bounty and thank Him for His favors and blessings.  AB00479

Mrs. Harrison asked what was the cause of the sensation often experienced by both of us which felt as if an essence were falling upon the top of the head, and a sensation flowing down around the face and on into the heart (she mentioned Aaron's beard)--also like irrigation. Was it merely a physical sensation? Imaginary? Or wrong?  Abdu'l-Baha:  "No it is not a physical condition, but spiritual, a very high one which is so intense it reaches the nerves and these react upon the body."  ABU3376

I have journeyed through the unseen worlds and invisible realms of the Almighty collecting New Thoughts, New Conceptions, New Proofs and New Evidences.   ABU1165

The Blessed Perfection has revealed a Tablet called 'Tablet of the Spiritual World.' All who read it are filled with an anxious desire to leave this world and enter the next condition, so wonderful are the glories of the Spiritual Kingdom. In Persia, one man who read this Tablet killed himself. he could not wait for the happiness it promised him. Another, a youth of Isfahan, could not stand the spiritual food contained in this Tablet, and lost his reason.  ABU2916

For I am with thee wherever thou dwellest; that place is overflowing with spiritual susceptibilities, and the light of the Kingdom casteth its effulgence upon it.   AB07385

From the intensity of its radiating rays, the inner and outer worlds, the realm of bodies and spirits, and the kingdom of truth and metaphor were brought to excitement and tumult.  AB03121

O thou who awaitest the dawning of the lights of favors! Turn thyself to the Kingdom of the Invisible, the Most Glorious Supreme Realm, that thou mayest witness the Greater Signs.  AB09519

Remember the days when thou wert present before the Countenance and didst witness what no eyes have witnessed throughout ages and centuries, and didst hear what no ears have heard.   BH03048

even though they were unaware thereof, they were like unto the fish of the deep, which are immersed in the sea without knowing it, and are beneath the gaze of the Concourse on high.  AB01797

There is a station destined for man that if he reaches to it, he will find all the created phenomena holding conversation with him; he will see that everything is speaking with him.   ABU1100

The fragrance of the garment of Joseph bestoweth life anew upon the Jacob of desire, and the delicate savours of the divine rose-garden delighteth the mystic nightingale that warbleth amid its blooms.  AB06943

Therefore, O knower of mysteries, strive that people may gain the insight of the righteous and become manifestations of the favors of the Lord. May they open another eye to witness the Divine Spirit.   AB05715

It is hoped that through divine assistance you will emerge from the bewilderment you mentioned and enter the paradise of holy unveiling and witnessing, and arrive at the city of certitude and assurance   BH02287

I swear by the Ancient Beauty that the effects of the Greatest Name will become so manifest and evident in the soul and conscience, even in bone and flesh, that the mind will be bewildered and confounded.  AB09567

On the Day of Splendor you opened the eye of insight and beheld the lights, penetrated the Kingdom of mysteries and pondered the signs, becoming aware of the hidden truth and the veiled reality.   AB02879

May they become the soaring heights of mystical knowledge and privy to hidden mysteries. May they become the breeze of the rose garden of divine unity and the manifestation of the favors of the Glorious Lord.   AB05721

O Lord! I was sleeping when the breeze of Thy Day of Manifestation stirred me. When it awakened me, it inspired me with that of which I was heedless in Thy days. O Lord! I caught Thy fragrance and hastened unto Thee.   BH07216

You have caught the fragrance of Joseph's garment and discovered the divine Egypt, and like Jacob you have gained seeing eyes. I hope that you may behold the divine Joseph's countenance and attain the station of unveiling.  AB09601

thou hast removed the covering and lifted the veiling from the Countenance of the Divine Beauty, beheld the Brilliant Face through thine insight, and became cognizant of the mysteries of purity and sanctity in this divine Cause!  AB08456

When I awoke, I felt that the Spirit of God had permeated and taken possession of My soul. My heart was thrilled with the joy of His Divine presence, and the mysteries of His Revelation were unfolded before My eyes in all their glory.  BB00605

Moses beheld a blazing Fire from the verdant Tree and heard a Voice. He fell unconscious and became the confidant of the celestial Herald and Angel. He brought forth the manifest serpent and drew forth the white hand from the mighty bosom.  AB08849

When man is transferred from the uterine world to the world of the senses, the covering is lifted away from him, the veil is rent, and he then perceiveth what he could not formerly perceive and apprehend in regard to the life of this world.  AB01459

The morn of Truth's beauty has dawned; the lights of the Absolute have appeared! That heart-ravisher--the one who sat veiled in seclusion the monarch of the highest paradise--now, into the streets and markets, like Joseph of Egypt, has ventured!   BH04998

Verily he ascended once above the Sadratu'l-Muntaha near the Furthermost Tree, and once unto the station of nearness behind the pavilions of holiness in the unseen cloud - a station whereof the understanding of those possessed of wisdom was cut off   BH04647

At that moment there came from the direction of the Most Exalted Paradise a breeze from which I detected the fragrance of the Beloved, and through it I came to know what none in the worlds had known, and I found what none among the mystics had found.  BH06518

The rays of the All-Merciful God have shone upon those friends. Their minds and ears became awakened and they became the confidants of the angels of heaven. The heart was quickened, the soul was refreshed, heavenly bounties arrived and the dawn of hope appeared.  AB09564

Thus have the channels of allusion, like ships in motion, coursed upon the sea of contingent beings, that the countenance of love might become visible from all created things, and the essence of affection might appear within the realities of all mentioned things   BH04041

Ye have heard the harmony of the Supreme Concourse and listened to the glad songs of the nightingale of the orchard of guidance, ye received a share and a portion from the heavenly Food, and became associates and partners in the outpouring of the Kingdom of Abha!   AB02015

Souls who are prepared are like candles, coming in contact with fire. They become illumined. They are swayed by the wafting of a breeze. They become green and verdant from a drop of the sprinkling of the cloud of favor. They find merciful susceptibilities by hearing a word.   ABU1994

Whosoever truly attaineth unto this most exalted station and most glorious horizon, the hidden mysterious manifestations and the veiled maidens of inner meanings from every direction without direction and from every station without veils will be unveiled and revealed unto him.  BH03220

Verily the lights have shone forth, and the glad-tidings have appeared, and the tokens have been fulfilled, and the Lord of verses - His traces have appeared and His lights have blazed forth, and His morn has dawned, and His breeze has wafted, and His spirit has become manifest  AB09618

Sleep in a clean, well prepared and ventilated place, and ask for appearance (or display) in the world of vision. Thou wilt have visions which will cause the doors of doubts to be closed, which will give you new joy, wonderful dilation, brilliant glory. Thou wilt comprehend realities and meanings.   AB07142

While engulfed in tribulations I heard a most wondrous, a most sweet voice, calling above My head. Turning My face, I beheld a Maiden--the embodiment of the remembrance of the name of My Lord--suspended in the air before Me. So rejoiced was she in her very soul that her countenance shone with the ornament of the good pleasure of God, and her cheeks glowed with the brightness of the All-Merciful. Betwixt earth and heaven she was raising a call which captivated the hearts and minds of men. She was imparting to both My inward and outer being tidings which rejoiced My soul, and the souls of God's honoured servants.  BH00007

God hath created for us therein white chambers wherein we were among those who glorify Him, then yellow chambers wherein we were among the thankful ones, then green chambers wherein we were among those who declare His unity, then red chambers wherein we were among those who magnify Him. Say: The first chambers are of hidden white diamond. Say: The other chambers are of treasured yellow ruby. Say: The outer chambers are of emerald which, when ye behold them, will so attract your souls that ye will exclaim: God beareth witness that there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved.  BB00004

Ye are clinging to the hem of grandeur and are wanderers in the path of the Abha Beauty. This is bounty upon bounty, and this door of hope hath been opened before the face of all the peoples of the world. Yet some are privy to these mysteries while others are deprived of this bestowal and supplication.  AB08335

Having inhaled the fragrances of divine mysteries within the signs of their own hearts, and having become that Bird of Truth soaring in the eternal realms of the Concourse on High... they witness at every moment the endless outpourings of God, the All-Glorious, within their heart, soul, spirit and body.  BH00377

God will soon reveal unto thee that which We impart to thee, and will cause to descend upon thee from the lights which God created before the creation of the heavens and the earth. He will gather thee into the paradise of love and establish thee in the heaven of holiness and the garden of companionship.  BH06432

For the holy melodies of the spirit a new ear is needed, and for the fragrances of the paradise of the soul an exalted heart is required, and for the wondrous divine knowledge an illumined heart is befitting, so that with heavenly assistance through these spiritual means one may perceive the gems of divine wisdom.  BH11853

If you open the eye of the soul and gaze upon the Kingdom of the Beloved, you will observe that this is a letter of freedom by which you will gain admittance to the divine Kingdom, and when you take flight from this dusty realm of darkness to the luminous world, you will hasten to the private chamber of the Truth.  AB09181

It is morning and the lights of the bounty of grace are shining and gleaming from the invisible Kingdom of the Most Glorious Realm. Pure hearts are receiving endless divine manifestations and hidden outpourings, while successive glad tidings from the unseen world arrive and holy fragrances spread from the gardens of oneness.  AB06056

O thou who art set ablaze with the fire kindled in the Tree of Sinai! We have broken the seal of the perfume of spirits, and the horizons have become fragrant with the sweet-smelling breeze of holiness. The gates of paradise have been opened, and the gardens of the love of God have been adorned with the flowers of fellowship.  AB09074

Praise be to God that thy heart hath become the Valley of the sacred Mount, and thy breast the Sinaic plain. The flame of light hath been kindled, and the mount of heart and soul hath become illumined and radiant. Thou hast heard the divine call and from the sacred Mount hast hearkened to the melody of "Thou shalt not see Me."  AB09219

When it reaches the chamber of sight, the mysteries of the Kingdom are witnessed. When it reaches the window of hearing, the call to wakefulness and awareness from the Abha Kingdom and the anthem of glorification from the Concourse on High are heard. When it rises from the horizon of the brow, the radiance of the All-Merciful is manifested.   AB05296

God hath, through His bounty and grace, removed the covering from off thine eyes and inspired thee the night in which the Morn of Guidance dawned and the Holy Spirit breathed in the being of "The Exalted, the Supreme". Ye went out, desirous to witness and visit the Lord, and awaited the appearance of the Great Bounty in that brilliant night.  AB02146

While We were seated upon the throne, there entered a radiant leaf, clad in fine white raiment, appearing as the full moon rising from the horizon of heaven. Exalted be God Who created her! No eye hath ever seen her like. When she lifted her veil, the heavens and earth were illumined as though the Ancient Essence had shed upon her its splendors.  BH01325

"Verily I have seen the Kingdom of God with its doors open, the garden of El-ABHA with extensive sides and regions, with dazzling lights, rolling seas, verdant and beautiful orchards, overflowing beds, green trees, fresh and bright leaves, perfumed flowers, sweet rivers, gentle breeze, beautiful air, magnificent views, elegant and handsome lips and mouths."  AB04918

At this moment I am seated by the shore of the Sea of Tiberias, now detached from all save the Friend and constantly anticipating the comprehensive effusions of the All-Merciful. If thou didst know in what state I write, thou wouldst surely be transported with rapture and ecstasy, and in the excess of joy and gladness thou wouldst dance while reciting this verse  AB09475

Verily the exquisite chalice hath overflowed with the choice wine, and verily the delicate glass hath sparkled with the luminous lamp, and verily the manifest horizon hath been illumined by the brilliant, radiant star, and verily the precious necklace hath been adorned with rubies and unique pearls, and verily the sweet, flowing river hath surged with mighty waves.  AB08419

Journey in the land of wonder and of mystery and travel far and wide within the realms of power in order to behold the proofs and signs of God. Open thou the eye of true discernment so as to see for thyself the blazing fire kindled on Sinai, and open the ear of truth that thou mayest hearken to the call of the divine Beloved summoning thee from the Supreme Horizon.  AB08780

Wert thou to discover what hath been ordained for thee in the Most Glorious Kingdom, thou wouldst spread the pinions of longing and grow the plumes of yearning, and soar unto the Supreme Companion. However, the all-encompassing divine wisdom hath required the concealment of this magnificent bounty and ancient generosity, lest every heedless blameworthy one covet it.  AB12527

I ask God that He may open the gate of the knowledge of these stations to thine heart so that thou mayest apprehend whatever is necessary and proper, garner spiritual bounties from the heaven of the All-Merciful, obtain the effulgences of knowledge from the Sun of Reality, and become a manifestation of inspiration from the Unseen and a source of glad-tidings from the All-Merciful.  AB11989

Pure and transparent souls, which were clear from the rest of matter, immediately became enlightened and luminous and reflected the lights upon the world of contingent beings. This effulgence, to those pure hearts, was like unto a Call, a Revelation, a Splendor and Hearer by music. Therefore each one acquired a special effulgence and made manifest and apparent a certain Divine Glory.   AB05789

Praise be to God that like unto a torch thou hast been ignited, and like unto a star thou hast shone. This light is the light of reality, which is divine guidance, and not a material one. It is a heavenly lamp and not an earthly one which, although it reveals objects, yet it does not discover and comprehend them, i.e., it is unaware of the world of things, and simply reveals them to the eye; while on the other hand, the light of Truth both reveals and discovers objects and does moreover comprehend them. Praise be to God that thou hast attained to such a light. AB07863

Spiritual disclosures are of two kinds: One, which is commonly referred to among other peoples, is mere imagination, while the other is true spiritual visions such as the revelations of Isaiah, of Jeremiah, and of John. ... In like manner, spiritual disclosures are of two kinds. One is the visions of the Prophets and the spiritual disclosures of the chosen ones of God. The visions of the Prophets are not dreams but true spiritual disclosures.  AB00482

As for what thou asked about the state of the spirit and its conditions, know with certainty that in sleep, the spirit is like the sun in its position--it does not leave the body, but rather by its light beholds the kingdom of the heavens and earth. If one is a believer, he beholds all things according to God's decree in his station, having an inseparable influence, and if one is an unbeliever, he beholds things in the inverted forms of unbelief.  BB00072

When the veils of the elemental world and the dark curtain of this earthly realm are lifted from sight, the vast expanse and broad space of the divine world becomes manifest, and the Beloved of divine bestowals unveils His face, and the gifts of the All-Merciful become evident. One sees the gates of the Kingdom opened and finds the breasts of the dwellers of the realm of might expanded. The realities of mysteries become manifest and the subtleties of lights become apparent.   AB03045

Open an eye unto the Most Glorious Kingdom and become privy to His mystery, and harmonious with His holy fragrances, that ye may behold the Most Great Sign and taste the honey of faithfulness and spread the wings of knowledge and soar in the infinite space.   AB06862

As for the unveiling of the beauty of the Holy Manifestations at the time of ascending to the limitless worlds, this pertaineth to the fact that the world of physical senses and material perceptions is metaphorical while the world of the spirit is reality itself. When the morning of reality dawneth, the realities of all created things will become apparent, the heedless will become conscious, the slumberer will awaken, and they will behold the Manifestations of Truth clearly and unmistakably. "We have removed from thee thy veil, and thy sight is sharp this day."  AB03862

If you seek a secret, seek divine mysteries   AB06254

the mysteries of the Kingdom will be unveiled  AB05166

reveal to him the hidden secret and guarded mystery   AB03309

thou art admitted to the intimate mysteries of the Kingdom  AB09156

I have been forbidden from revealing the mysteries of eternity  BH11295

you will gain awareness as it truly is of the divine mysteries  AB10563

The mysteries are revealed and what was hidden is made manifest   BH04895

that thou mayest discover that which no one else hath discovered   BH05930

We are ignorant; suffer us to become informed with Thy Mysteries.  ABU2901

it will discover realities; it will be informed of the mysteries.   ABU3086

"Thus have the secrets been revealed by the Pen of the Unconstrained"  BH11210

May He make these deprived souls intimate with the pavilion of mysteries  AB06513

What do the ignorant know of the hidden mystery and the guarded secret?   AB11696

I hope that the divine mysteries may become revealed to thee at all time.  AB03181

All hidden mysteries and treasured signs have become manifest and visible.  BH04505

Guard thou the mystery of God, for it was made manifest in the year sixty.  BB00289

Without divine civilization the mysteries of the Kingdom are not revealed   ABU2986

teach them the mysteries that were in the unseen world of contingent being   AB03372

therefore I will explain for your benefit certain luminous and shining mysteries  ABU2664

I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy knowledge which none hath known save Thee   BH08527

but thou didst become privy to the mystery and wert numbered among those who yearn  AB10440

That which was hidden from eyes hath been revealed, as witnesseth the Mother Book.   BH06677

Though it has been revealed briefly, yet oceans of meaning lie concealed within it.  BH04408

Know then the allusion, for it has been sent down from behind seventy thousand veils  BB00568

The divine proof is like the shining moon, but the blind are veiled from beholding it  AB03358

"when a man is taught the mystery of God, his eyes are opened but his lips are sealed"   AB06599

verses of wealth arrive from the hidden treasure... Remove the veils from heart and soul   BH03078

Its mystery is great and cannot be unveiled just yet. In the future it will be made plain.  ABU3252

Its mystery is great and cannot be unveiled just yet. In the future it will be made plain.  ABU3169

I wonder how the wine-seller came to know / The divine secret that the mystic told to no one   AB03637

This is the Day wherein all the mysteries of the divine Books have become manifest and evident   BH06926

But consummate wisdom hath concealed this vast flower garden and hidden this limitless expanse."  AB08139

the mysteries of the Kingdom He clarified for you through the confirmations of the Spirit of God  AB05388

Through Him the hidden was revealed and the treasured appeared, and the sealed wine was unsealed.  BH07583

Therefore strive to bring forth, through the divine will, the treasures hidden from mortal eyes.   BH10654

Perhaps God, exalted is He, will inspire us with knowledge of His mystery after a while or before   BB00464

Preserve the elixir of your Lord's love within your heart, lest Our faithless servants discover it   BH03192

which none hath known save him whom We have taught through that which was revealed in My Hidden Tablet   BH08919

Ponder, O ye who are endued with insight, that ye may understand what hath been inscribed of mysteries.  BH11507

But God has veiled and concealed it beneath the veil of the unseen for a wisdom that God alone knoweth   AB06507

This expression is an allusion. How blessed is she if she understands, for it shall be proof of insight.  AB06486

"I swear by God, whoever tastes a drop thereof shall witness what none in all the worlds hath witnessed"   BH04541

For the world of creation is an endless ocean, and in its depths precious pearls and jewels lie concealed  ABU2829

And were the mysteries of this Day to be mentioned, thou wouldst see all rendered unconscious save a few.   BH03304

initiate her into Thy hidden mysteries, and inspire her with the revealed splendours of Thy heavenly light  AB01515

The Pen hath been forbidden to mention the mysteries of pre-existence. Erelong shall its reins be loosened.   BH10314

We have sent down the Book and revealed that which was hidden in God's knowledge, the Lord of all religions.  BH08913

You have intuition. You must follow it always, because when you follow it, it increases and becomes more clear. Only a few have this gift. It is like the tinkling of bells, a sixth sense, like the voice of God speaking. The more one follows intuition, the more it increases.  ABU3234

The Hidden Mystery and the Treasured Secret have appeared, and that which was concealed from all eyes.   BH08045

When thou knowest this station, thou wilt understand the mysteries of thy Lord's word according to thy measure.  BH02138

Indeed I have been alone with the Beloved, and between us is a secret more subtle than the breeze when it flows  AB09602

through Whom was revealed that which was hidden in knowledge and recorded in the scriptures and tablets and books   BH07190

A secret that was forever hidden and stored in the treasury of divine protection has become evident and manifest.   BH04671

so that we may become acquainted with the mysteries of Thy Holy Book and discover the hidden meanings of Thy words  AB06736

My hope is that thou mayest become, moment by moment, more hopeful and discover the hidden mystery of the Lord God  AB10423

The hidden pearls that were concealed within the shells of the ocean of knowledge have become manifest and evident   BH07009

I have hoped and continue to hope through the grace and favors of the Blessed Beauty that the divine friends will attain such attraction that they will grasp divine mysteries without letters and become discoverers of secrets. The outpourings of the Abha Kingdom are the Preserved Tablet, the Written Book and the Outspread Parchment, and all mysteries are inscribed in that letter. Study that detailed letter carefully so that you may become informed of the mysteries of what was and what will be.  AB05289

may drink and partake of the cup of the mysteries of God's Cause which until now hath been concealed from all souls   BH04009

He is indeed numbered with the people of inner meaning before God, the Lord of the worlds and the Goal of the mystics.   BH11016

The people, however, are veiled: most are deprived of this station and are powerless and incapable of comprehending it   BH08888

Through His manifestation the mysteries have been revealed and that which was recorded in the Tablets has come to light   BH03683

Ponder what We have imparted unto thee, that thou mayest understand what was concealed in the depths of these allusions.   BH06291

The Wronged One was walking in the house and gazing upon things and the mysteries of the Revelation concealed within them  BH04784

However, in this secret are hidden a hundred thousand divine wisdoms, evident and manifest to those possessed of insight.   AB06963

And whenever a mystery is revealed from the hidden mysteries inscribed above the Secret, a group enters and a group departs.  BB00002

Were that which We have ordained for thee at this hour to be unveiled, thou wouldst be thunderstruck with longing.  BH11799

So that one may become informed with the Mysteries of the Holy Books and comprehend the allegories of the spiritual utterances.  ABU2174

Thou hast written what shouldst thou do and what prayer shouldst thou offer in order to become informed of the mysteries of God  AB11280

Thus does the Dove teach you from the mysteries of eternity and draw you near unto God, the Protector, the Mighty, the Generous.   BH05720

These mysteries can neither be written nor uttered. Whenever the eye of insight is opened, the reality of meanings is understood.  AB07513

This is the Day whereon the seas surge and the rivers flow and the mysteries are revealed, yet the people are behind a thick veil   BH04555

Soon shall ye find all your deeds with God in this Gate, in a sealed book, hidden and preserved under the seal of the Remembrance.  BB00002

Were the hidden mysteries to be revealed, all would hasten to the place of sacrifice, but the veils remain drawn through His wisdom  BH08139

Verily do We make mention of the mysteries of this Day and that which hath been ordained therein by One Who is mighty and powerful.   BH07754

O enchanted one! Open the musk-laden casket of mysteries of the Merciful Beloved and scatter its fragrant breeze throughout the world  AB00848

Every day and every moment, the mysteries hidden within the shell of utterance become manifest through the command of the All-Merciful.  BH02372

When will the countenance of the letter Ha without garment unveil itself and the face of the letter Ba without veil reveal its mystery?   BH11060

she is of the denizens of the highest Paradise, inscribed in the Crimson Book which none hath beheld save God, the Lord of all mankind.   BH10304

Glorified be He Who hath appeared and revealed that which was hidden behind the veils of the Unseen and concealed throughout all eternity.   BH08232

I was preparing to make reply, when lo, the Tablet was suddenly ended, leaving My theme unfinished, and the pearl of Mine utterance unstrung.   BH09299

They graze in the meadows of knowledge and drink from the spring of pure water, and in whatsoever their souls desire shall they abide forever.  AB09057

He Who was hidden hath come, and He Who was treasured hath been revealed...having acquainted me with that which was concealed from Thy servants  BH06738

And the hidden treasured Mystery, whereof all divine Books and Scriptures and Tablets have made mention, hath appeared unveiled and unconcealed.  BH07001

The veils of vain imaginings are to be rent asunder in such wise that the denizens of the sacred pavilions of divine holiness will hear its call   BH11485

The Sure Handle hath appeared and that which was hidden and treasured in God's knowledge, the Most High, the Most Great, hath been made manifest.   BH11172

We have caused the Ark of Inner Meanings to sail upon the sea of utterance, that thy heart may rejoice thereat and thou mayest be of the thankful.   BH04401

We beseech God to rend asunder, with the finger of His power, the veils of the world and not to deprive His servants of the ocean of inner meanings.  BH03544

"In this there is wisdom none knoweth save God, and ye shall come to know it when the mysteries are unveiled and the Cock of the Throne crieth out."  BH03087

And We shall manifest unto them from the lights of Beauty and cause them to hear wondrous melodies and provide them with sublime fruits of knowledge   BH08305

We must immerse ourselves in this sea and reach its depth;- so that we may gather the unseen, brilliant pearls of the Mysteries of the Kingdom of God   ABU2636

That which was hidden in the treasury of knowledge hath been revealed, and that which was concealed in the repositories of wisdom hath been sent down.   BH06241

they heard the infinite mysteries being played from the chords of Thy knowledge...make them privy to Thy mysteries in the retreats of the celestial world  AB07737

Therefore I beseech God that thou mayest become the essence of knowledge and gain insight into the hidden secret and guarded mystery of the All-Merciful.  AB05267

I beseech God to remove the veil and reveal to you the simple, universal truth that is sanctified from the understanding of the people of vain imaginings  AB06438

The trees have yielded their fruit, the mysteries have been revealed, and that which was hidden in God's knowledge, the Lord of existence, hath appeared.   BH05765

For if all on earth were freed from veils, this single page would suffice them all, and all spiritual meanings are hidden as pearls in this divine ocean.   BH02318

Verily, I reveal unto thee in spirit and address thee in heart, a speech which will open unto thee the doors of mysteries which are concealed behind veils.  AB04599

That it will be revealed is predestined. The time will come when its light will appear, when its evidences will be made manifest, and its secrets unraveled.  AB11327

The signs of God have appeared, the mysteries of the Kingdom are revealed, and the secret of all that hath been recorded in the Holy Writ been made manifest.  AB07151

Praise be to God that those without portion have received their share and those far off have drawn near, and those deprived have become privy to the mystery.  AB05664

He is the All-Wise and the mysteries of His wisdom are concealed - none knoweth them save His Own Self and those to whom He hath given a portion in the Book.   BH03885

the hearts wherein are treasured the pearls of Thy hidden knowledge, and which Thou hast made the dawning-places of the mysteries of what was and what will be   BH08954

Through it are all suppositions and imaginings effaced, and through it hath the sun of certitude shone forth from the horizon of the will of the All-Merciful.   BH03567

Though this universal divine mercy is now veiled and hidden from eyes and sight, yet ere long all shall behold its effects and mysteries in the Kingdom of God.  BH11673

The Pen hath been forbidden to mention the mysteries of pre-existence...Therefore We have withheld the Pen from revealing that which was treasured of mysteries   BH09937

Although this station is veiled due to the lack of capacity in this time, yet this veil shall be lifted and will become manifest in the assemblage of the world   BH06907

For thou hast become aware of mysteries of which all mystics and scholars are deprived, and discovered secrets of which all philosophers are heedless and remote  AB04090

the all-encompassing divine wisdom hath required the concealment of this magnificent bounty and ancient generosity, lest every heedless blameworthy one covet it  AB12527

We must endeavor to gain heavenly enlightenment, to understand the mysteries of the holy books, to become the cause of guidance to others and to illumine hearts.  ABU2465

This is a Day wherein mysteries have been revealed, fruits have appeared, and the heavenly table hath been sent down; yet the people remain in grievous blindness.  BH07191

the appearance of the hidden Mystery and the guarded Symbol that was promised in the Torah, the Gospel, the Psalms, the preserved Qur'an, and the described Bayan   AB06522

through it the veil was rent asunder and the pearls of Thy mysteries that were hidden within the shell of Thy protection and the sea of Thy knowledge were revealed   BH07331

These are the similitudes We strike for mankind that they might be certain of the signs of God. The veils have been lifted for those who stand in the place of glory.  BB00325

Were We to recount the mysteries of thine ascension, they that are asleep would waken, and all beings would be set ablaze with the fire of the remembrance of My Name   BH03402

O my Lord! Open unto them the gates of mysteries and admit them into the company of the righteous and bring them back from mere traces to the Dawning Place of lights   AB01540

The entire text discusses a mysterious "Fountain of Life" containing paradoxical elements (fire and water) and guarded by a serpent, representing deep spiritual truths  BH01730

In any case, it is better and more fitting that divine mysteries remain concealed until such time as God shall reveal that which hath been hidden from the eyes of men.  BH11243

As for Mr. Breakwell who has ascended to the Kingdom of God, in his ascension there is wisdom which none knows except him whom God has taught the mystery of mysteries.  AB11868

We testify that thou hast heard and turned thyself, and hast attained unto that which was hidden in knowledge and treasured in the hearts of them that are nigh unto God  BH06506

That which was hidden in the treasury of God's protection hath appeared, and that which was inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in the Preserved Tablet hath come to pass.   BH07256

Indeed this matter's wisdom has proved beyond the comprehension of the possessors of thoughts, save those who perceive with an insight that strays not from the mysteries  AB01910

All this is evident unto those who have eyes as this emanates from the world of the Interior. Those who are outside have been and still are unaware of this great mystery.   BH10779

We shall guard the secrets of God that are enshrined in His Scriptures and Books. And ye shall not find Me until the Promised One will have appeared on the Day of Return.   BH01966

Would that thou knewest the surging waves of this Most Great Ocean and what lieth concealed therein of the pearls of the mysteries of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Praised!   BH09995

that they may be delivered from waiting, witness the lights of the Sun of Truth, receive tidings from the invisible realm, and discover the mysteries of the concealed world.  AB11155

Thus, the reality of Christ's appearance in the Mosaic Dispensation was one of the divine mysteries that later became revealed and manifest through the appearance of Christ.  AB11056

Within this verse lie hidden the mysteries of the unseen and stored the treasures of knowledge. Well is it with him who knoweth them and concealeth their secrets in his heart.  BH04151

it would be possible that a certain servant of the servants of the Merciful might discover a treasured mystery or a preserved sign, whatever his shortcomings or defects might be  AB07050

The Hidden Mystery hath appeared and the Preserved Tablet been detailed, and they that draw nigh read while the deniers look to the right and to the left, and they are bewildered.  BH09496

Today the gate of the most exalted Paradise hath been opened in the name of the Lord of Names, and hidden mysteries have become manifest and evident without any veil or concealment.  BH03291

Today we beseech the Truth to assist His servants to exalt the Word with wisdom and utterance, lest that which would raise the howling of wolves and grunting of swine should appear.  BH03705

O thou perfumer, scatter the musk of mysteries throughout this world, that the nostrils of all people may be perfumed thereby and their eyes illumined by the vision of these lights.  AB08920

The elders used to flee from both friend and stranger. But now the Heart's Beloved rides forth on His wind-swift steed, prancing in the arena of truth, revealing all that was hidden.  AB03550

They have passed beyond names and have made for and attained unto the sea of inner meanings, reaching a station which the Pen is powerless to mention and the tongue fails to describe.  BH09674

Shouldst thou make firm thy feet in the love of God and hold steadfast to the Great Cause, God will reveal unto thee mysteries unheard by the ears and incomprehensible by the intellects   AB03064

And if thou hearest of My departure from that land, be not grieved or troubled, for therein lie mysteries that none can comprehend save those who perceive with the eye of God in His Cause  BH02682

These teachings are what the world needs in this luminous age, for this is not an age of blind imitation; it is the age of light, and the century in which mysteries will be made manifest.  ABU3749

Yet the non-existence and evanescence of the shadow becomes the cause of its nearness and reunion and its very existence. None but the righteous have had or will have a share of this cup.   BH05687

this indeed is a mystery preserved in the shell of the inevitable decree like a hidden pearl, and its lights shall shine forth, its effects shall radiate, and its secrets shall be revealed  AB02994

If thou wert to know what We intended for thee in the depths of these allusions, joy and longing would seize thee to a station wherein thou wouldst find thyself detached from all directions.  BH01891

"Acknowledgment and confession are not permitted. If someone confesses to lack of understanding and knowledge, he speaks truth, for no one has been or is truly cognizant of it as it deserves."   BH02432

Strive with the full fervour of thy soul that the wellspring of true understanding may flow within thy heart and bestow upon thee the outpourings of divine mysteries from the Kingdom of Lights. Thereupon wilt thou grasp such inner meanings as lay treasured and concealed in the Sacred Scriptures.  AB02800

Allah hath veiled His servant's secret in the heart of the Fire within this Book, according to what God hath ordained in His hidden knowledge - a secret inscribed around the veil in concealment.  BB00002

God hath concealed His servant's mystery in the Fire's pole within this Book, as God ordained in the knowledge of the Unseen from His most hidden mystery, inscribed upon the line around the veil.  BB00002


Therefore, hallowed and sanctified is the Lord of Oneness Who hath made those who are powerless and in need to become intimates of the divine mysteries, and companions of the Beloved of mysteries.  AB08889

Even thus do We cast down mysteries with veils and coverings, that the unitarians might ascend to the heaven of knowledge and the demons be prevented from ascending to the court of holy recognition.   BH05171

Since the preservation of souls for the triumph of God's Cause is observed according to divine wisdom's requirements, therefore this station remains unrevealed and hidden behind the veils of the unseen  BH02107

However, at present this is hidden from sight - none know of it save those possessed of insight and lofty thoughts whose traces are sublime. These lights shall shine forth and these signs shall appear   AB06386

"The Lord God pleased to give the human being three great mysteries (secrets, riddles) on his journey through life. The final unveiling of them will only occur when our soul has shed its earthly body."  ABU0453

Therefore, wander and roam in this meadow of inner meanings, drink of the spiritual wine, inhale the divine fragrance, and draw forth the chalice of true wine until its lights shine upon those horizons.  AB10634

This is the Mystery that was hidden behind the veils, and this is verily a sealed Book that was treasured in the vaults of might and power, and preserved within the sanctuaries of infallibility and patience   BH07055

Again, the sea has innumerable pearls in its depths. A good and trained diver will obtain therefrom abundant pearls, whereas one unacquainted with and incapable of this attainment can only obtain the shells.  ABU1764

The Books and Words of God have been sealed and the meanings locked. All the sacred mysteries were sealed, but now Baha'u'llah has broken the seals, revealed the meanings, and we can understand the Realities.  ABU2877

O my Lord! Confirm this revered personage, that he may attain the Essential Purpose; travel in these Seven Valleys; enter the silent chamber of realities and significances, and enter the Kingdom of Mysteries.  AB11288

The sun has truly risen at the zenith of heaven at midday. By the Lord of the House, there is no escape for anything except through entering that Ultimate Gate after the prohibition of allusions and infinities  BB00244

Thus at all times the manifest resurrection is apparent and visible, even though people may be heedless of recognizing it...none but My Self is aware of those souls and the nature of this spiritual resurrection.  BH03853

Soon shall the veils be lifted, the covering removed, and darkness shall be dispelled by a brilliant dawn shining upon the horizons...the lamp of God's bounty shall reveal the hidden secret and concealed mystery  AB06511

By my life, if you inhaled the fragrance of faithfulness, I would cast upon you a word which, if you heard it, would make you soar in an atmosphere where from the rustling of its winds you would hear "There is no god but He." But at this time the tongues of the nightingales of truth have grown weary of wonderful melodies. Rather, divine wisdom flows from hearts to breasts like the flowing of spirit in souls. How excellent are the words: "I have been alone with the Beloved, and between us was a secret more subtle than the breeze when it moves." AB00479

Be ye cheerful, yet divulge not this closely-guarded, this most hidden Secret, lest perchance the non-believers discover that ye have drunk your fill from this choice wine which aboundeth with relish and rapture.   BH01716

Though the lights are brilliant and the mysteries radiant, yet veils conceal and darkness envelops, until the impelling force of divine confirmation and the vanguard of heavenly success comes to whomsoever it may.  AB11981

If thou couldst measure the height and depth of the marvelous events which have transpired and are transpiring in the Cause thou wouldst write down every word I utter with the pen of diamond upon the page of gold.   ABU2238

But God's consummate wisdom has kept this hidden mystery preserved and protected, so that the stranger might not find the path to the One Lord, and the unworthy might not receive a portion from this boundless ocean.  AB00819

This mighty mystery is the Hidden Treasure of the Ancient of Days, and its preservation is an imperative command. Therefore, the Hand of Divine Power and Zeal conceals it. In its appointed time it shall be unveiled.  AB10930

The affairs of this land are veiled and the poisons of enemies concealed. Were the veil to be rent, death would result... Alas, alas for what is concealed and must not be revealed! Soon will its covering be removed.   BH02059

Although now, due to the veil and covering, this supreme triumph is concealed and this manifest light is hidden...When this bounty removes the veil and lifts the covering...the hidden mysteries shall become manifest.  AB06923

if the Blessed Beauty asked after someone's health, although outwardly a common expression, it could give to a person who was perceptive hints as to the wisdom and mystery hidden in the words spoken on that occasion.  ABU2440

This hidden secret and guarded mystery remained concealed in the days of the Holy Manifestations. Its disclosure is not permitted now, for the order of the world would be disrupted and affairs would become disordered.  AB05550

I beseech Thee...to assist this servant to discover the mysteries and the meanings of Thy recorded Book...Then protect him from the arrows of doubts and the spears of allusions, and make manifest to him the clear proofs  AB06563

We have sent down concerning this knowledge diverse epistles in an eloquent Arabic tongue and a lucid Persian language, and We have sent thee that which will make thee independent of every possessor of knowledge and wisdom  BH04806

Were God, exalted be His glory, to unveil the hidden mysteries even to the extent of a needle's eye, all would turn to Him and seek ascension. However, in accordance with the requirements of wisdom, they remain concealed.   BH03279

We have disclosed in this Tablet one of the mysteries of this Revelation, and have concealed that which is hidden lest the clamor of the ungodly be raised. By God! None hath comprehended it save according to his capacity.   BH00902

Guard ye God's mystery within you, for God hath appointed for you a station upon the Path. Give not wisdom unto the foolish, for they have believed in God, the Most High, and His mystery weakly, upon the ocean of weakness.  BB00002

More explicit than what hath been mentioned is not permitted, and in the Tablets a clearer exposition than what hath been given is not desired, inasmuch as the unveiling of this most great mystery hath ever been forbidden.   BH04321

These are the mysteries of God. It is not the reading of the words that profits you; it is the understanding of their meanings. Therefore, pray God that you may be enabled to comprehend the mysteries of the divine Testaments.   ABU0523

Know thou that the question thou hast asked hath explanations and interpretations that cannot be set forth today, nor can ears bear to hear them, for souls are veiled by veils of darkness and eyes are covered by a veil of fire.  BH01497

The Ancient Beauty declareth: The mysteries of this Revelation remain concealed, and were they to be revealed, verily would the people of the earth be struck with terror, save him whose heart God hath purified with this Kawthar.  BH06514

He looked at me and, putting out his hand, said: You have been taught right; it is because the mirror of your heart has been clear enough to reflect them. You must lock them in your breast. To speak of them prevents your own growth.   ABU3377

O bookbinder, when you refer to the divine scrolls and heavenly tablets and contemplate their inner meanings contained therein, all the glad tidings and verses point to the appearance of the Light of Truth and Center of Divine Mercy.   AB05221

Assuredly mysteries will be successively revealed, thou wilt become aware of divine traces, veils will be rent asunder, and the dominion of the mystery will become manifest. The imaginary will vanish and the real beauty will be revealed.   AB04480

So great are the things ordained for the steadfast that were they, so much as the eye of a needle, to be disclosed, all who are in heaven and on earth would be dumbfounded, except such as God, the Lord of all worlds, hath willed to exempt.  BH11200

Observe thou likewise that in this world of being there exist various worlds. There is the mineral world, the vegetable world, the animal world, and the human world - each a different world. The mysteries of these worlds are most profound.  AB00282

God hath indeed veiled that Word with a veil of the mystery of concealment around the Throne, hidden. Those who seek God and His signs in the paths of the Gate, upon the Letter Ha - these are they who are witnessed in truth around the Fire.  BB00002

Lord, lift the veil and acquaint him with the hidden secret and the protected mystery concealed from the eyes of humanity...and he may discover secrets for which the ancient philosophers and people of insight in later centuries died in regret   AB07171

May they all, throughout the reaches of the spirit, learn well of the hidden mysteries; so well that in the Kingdom of the All-Glorious, each one of them, even as a nightingale endowed with speech, will cry out the secrets of the Heavenly Realm  AB02921

Thus do We impart unto the servants that which was hidden from them, that perchance a soul may understand and there may appear in creation that which would bewilder the minds of the wise, the hearts of the sages, and the souls of all created things   BH06431

Then, O birds of the sacred skies, do not deprive yourselves, by virtue of your concentration upon this ephemeral world, of this immortal fountain. Possibly you will receive permission to enter the eternal chamber of audience with the glorious beauty.  BH01911

At that moment, the reality of "Read thy book: sufficient is thy soul this day to make an account against thee" becomes manifest and apparent, and all the spiritual meanings that lie hidden and concealed in human consciousness become clear and evident  AB06373

He will perceive infinite realms, become aware of supernatural powers, find deliverance from the mortal world, and attain divine life and heavenly illumination. He will discover the realities of things and comprehend the mysteries of the sacred books.  ABU0310

Be not grieved on account of lack of information of the mysteries of this great Cause. If thou keepest firm in the religion of God, the covering shall be removed for thee and thou shalt become informed of the allegories and mysteries of the Kingdom of God.  AB04917


God hath made clear His mystery between the lines at the Point of Fire, but none remember save those who come eagerly to the Remembrance before the Gate, seeking God the All-Praised [...] God hath concealed His servant's mystery in the Fire's pole within this Book  BB00002

I swear by My Beauty that all that hath been heard hath proceeded from Mine own Self, and none beside Me hath been or shall ever be My partner. Yet in the concealment of matters there lie hidden wisdoms which none save the discerning and perspicacious can comprehend.  BH11754

"There you will find the Great [Sovereign] Angel (malak al-kabir), for that is the talismanic resolution that is [found] in the books of the Christians the likeness of which was not found until now amongst the talismanic-lunettes. So protect it with an utmost protection;"   BB00421

Then didst Thou bring forth, through Thine ancient craftsmanship, the pearls of oneness, and then didst veil them, O my God, behind the veils of Thy protection and the coverings of Thy concealment. How blessed, then, is he who hath burned away the veils and rent asunder the shrouds   BH07162

Thus have We revealed unto you from the mysteries of this Youth, and explained unto you less than the eye of a needle, nay, less than can be numbered, of the wondrous matters of the Command which had been preserved behind the veils of eternity by God's protection in the holy Tablet.   BH01480

This Wronged One hath ever mentioned and will continue to mention the people of divine unity. However, He is forbidden from mentioning spiritual insights and divine realities, inasmuch as some souls are unable to comprehend their meanings and interpret them according to their own desires  BH05600

The wise one is satisfied with an allusion and has no need of speaker or transmitter. His Holiness the Prince of Believers (peace be upon him) has said: "The removal of the veils of glory without any indication" - to such an extent that they did not even consider an indication permissible.  AB08476

"The gates of Paradise have been opened, and the gardens of the love of God are adorned with the flowers of fellowship. The leaves of the garden of the knowledge of God have unfurled, and hearts are revived by their sweet fragrance, and breasts are gladdened by the scent of its blossoms."   AB09074

Most of the mysteries of this Revelation have remained concealed. Verily it cannot be compared with aught else. Should one reflect upon the Bayan, God will open unto his heart such gates of understanding for recognizing this Revelation as have never been opened unto any among His servants.   BH01327

I beg of God that He will assist thee to comprehend the mysteries that lie at the heart of creation, and will draw away the veil from before thine eyes and thy sister's, that the well-guarded secret may be disclosed unto thee, and the hidden mystery be revealed as clear as the sun at noonday.  AB01624

the essence of the Cause and its reality have until now remained concealed, such that none hath become aware of it save those possessed of illumined hearts who have been freed from attachment to all else but God. And yet it remained concealed behind a hundred thousand veils of glory and majesty.   BH03680

Verily the hidden secret and the concealed mystery, veiled within the breasts and enshrined in the pavilions of the heart's recesses, hath been revealed through a sign, or a word, or a letter - nay, through a single point from the traces of the Supreme Pen on the day when the Sun of Glory dawned forth.  AB08500

How many a wise one hath been veiled from the Sun by clouds of fancy, and how many a child hath rent asunder the veils! How many a person of understanding hath been confounded within himself, and how many a heedless one hath advanced until he entered the Kingdom of his Lord, the Exalted, the Most High!   BH03122

We are deprived; make us the intimates of Thy mysteries. We are needy; enrich and bless us from Thy boundless treasury. O God! Resuscitate us; give us sight; give us hearing; familiarize us with the mysteries of life, so that the secrets of Thy kingdom may become revealed to us in this world of existence  ABU0070

We have veiled this through Our wisdom, and none knoweth it save those who have entered the Most Great Scene and are among those who have witnessed and seen. Were We to lift the veil from the face of the Cause, they would discover what is hidden, but We have concealed it until God shall reveal it in truth.  BH01725

Hearken with the ear of the heart to the hidden secrets and heavenly Mysteries in the world of soul and spirit and listen to the Divine Glad-tidings. For His Holiness Baha'u'llah has so united the hearts that they correspond together without the means of pen and paper, explaining the Mysteries of the Kingdom.   AB05485

Were We to find one who hath attained maturity, We would impart unto him that which We have concealed from all who are in the heavens and on earth since the beginning that hath no beginning. But since We found the servants veiled and heedless, then in weakness and frailty, We have therefore concealed the mysteries   BH01903

O resplendent Mystery, O radiant Light, O Mount of ascension, O rain-laden Cloud, O Mystery concealed on the Night of Ascension for the Beloved seated in the realm of rapture! O firmly-established hidden Mystery, O illuminating, shining Light, O watchful, lofty Observer, O transcribed Verses, O extracted Essences!   BB00185

We have not revealed this matter lest any humiliation come upon him, and thus were We among the concealers. And ye both must conceal it such that it not pass from your lips. Thus doth the Pen of Command bid you be among the doers. For this is a mystery from the mysteries of God, the Help in Peril, the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH02394

Were We to lift the veil from the face of the Cause, people would surely sever their own necks with their own hands in this path. Bear witness that what remaineth concealed is like unto an ocean, while that which We have manifested among the servants is but as a drop that none can reckon save those endowed with keen vision.   BH04683

And if thou desirest the meaning in the station of the noble ones, it is veiled beneath coverings and pavilions, and whoso desireth to discover its reality hath opposed God in His dominion and disputed with Him in His sovereignty and incurred the wrath of God, and his abode shall be hell - an evil dwelling for the wrongdoers.   BB00165

This befits one such as yourself, for man cannot discover the hidden mystery in the unseen realm of contingent existence except after plunging into the depths of the seas and attaining the profound secrets. Only then does he perceive the dazzling signs, the brilliant proofs, the decisive evidence, and the resplendent arguments.  AB00102

God hath taught thee knowledge which none before thee hath comprehended, and We have taught thee knowledge of creation from the All-Merciful, uniquely fashioned. He surpassed his brethren in the knowledge of the All-Merciful by a convincing letter concerning the mystery of what was hidden in the concealed line of the hidden secret.  BB00002

Therefore, O thou who walketh in the path of glory and righteousness, and travelleth on the way of thy Most Exalted Lord! If thou acceptest what We have counselled thee, thou shalt attain unto all that We have promised thee and witness what none before thee hath witnessed, if Satan preventeth thee not from the ways of the All-Merciful.  BH00073

"Baha'u'llah says. 'When the soul has travelled through many valleys, it reaches to the city of Love. That city contains four pillars. Whenever I found a hearing ear I shall explain what are these four pillars?' During the life of Baha'u'llah, no one asked the explanation of this matter but now you ask and I will elucidate it for you."  ABU2332

Say: O people! Were We to lift the veil of concealment from the face of mysteries by a finger's breadth, ye would surely detach yourselves from your possessions and wealth, and would sacrifice your souls in the path of God, your Creator. Yet We have not lifted it, by reason of a wisdom that remaineth hidden from the eyes of the idolaters.   BH01183

Should a soul become aware of but one fruit from the tree of divine decree and comprehend it, joy and gladness, delight and expansion, submission and contentment would never depart from him. Extinction is the gate to immortality, and immortality the gate to extinction. Non-existence is the door to existence, and existence the door to non-existence.  BH02190

As to thy seeking and mentioning the recognition of reality, and saying "Will not my will unite with Thy will?" - the tongue should seek forgiveness of God for this utterance, for this station is one whereunto the recognition of the mystics, the knowledge of the learned, and the realities of those in earth and heaven cannot attain. He hath ever been, in the heights of inaccessibility, sanctified above all else but Himself, and will forever remain, in the summit of His exaltation, hallowed above all that is besides Him. No one hath known Him as He should be known, and no soul hath comprehended Him as He should be comprehended, for this station hath been and shall ever be sanctified and exalted. The Books and Scriptures have testified to His sanctification and transcendence. Whosoever today beholdeth and recognizeth the hidden treasure through the concealed Name, hath attained unto his own Paradise and Kingdom, and this is the utmost station of the servant's recognition within the realm of possibility. Beyond this the path is barred and seeking is rejected. His proof is His Revelation, and His evidence is His being established upon His mighty Throne.... Furthermore, no one's will hath ever been or shall ever be united with God's will, for the will of all hath been and shall ever be as nothingness before His will. The glory of existence is for one to make his own will fade away in God's will - that is, to have no will, thought or imagination of his own, but to move by God's will and act accordingly. Deem not this matter imaginary. Whosoever today hath drunk of the sealed wine and acted according to that which hath proceeded from the Source of Command, hath attained unto God's will, and he is of the people of truth. And whosoever remaineth veiled from this station is accounted among the dead, even should he manifest the knowledge and recognition of the ancients. BH01427

The mystery enshrined within this verse is now concealed; it will be revealed in the year after Hin. Treasures lie hidden beneath the throne of God; the key to those treasures is the tongue of poets. He then, one after the other, related to Mulla Husayn those events which must needs transpire in the future, and bade him not to mention them to anyone.  BBU0011

By the life of God! If the veil were lifted, those who turned away would circle around those who turned towards God, and would flock from all directions to attain their presence and meeting. However, consummate wisdom has concealed this, so that there might be manifested from them in His days what was hidden within them and stored in their inmost beings.  BH10020

Suddenly it became apparent that the intention had been that a new and special mention of him should be made separately and that he should be repeatedly mentioned before His face. In any case, after alertness and remembrance, there appeared before his countenance that which all the treasures and riches of the world could not equal even one letter thereof.  BH09363

Keep hidden the secrets of that distinguished person. It is not permissible that anyone other than God should be apprised of them. The hearts of the righteous are vessels of secrets. Be the repository of that noble one's confidences...In any case, keep these secrets hidden, even from intimate friends and companions, until they become evident and manifest.  AB10937

When they spoke the letters of There is no God but God and said that Joseph was dearer to their father than they were - this was by virtue of what had preceded in God's knowledge as a letter concealed in mystery, veiled by mystery, hidden in the line, absent in the secret of secrets, transcendent above what was in their hands and the hands of all the worlds.  BB00002

This unknown reality has become clear and evident in this Most Great Manifestation... What a wondrous matter this is and what a strange tale - that a human should attain the station of angels and a person should become one who derives understanding from the verses of the All-Merciful, such that the effects are visible while the one affecting them remains hidden.   AB05305

This is what hath been sent down in the outward sense of the Command, but whoso gazeth upon the inner meaning is assured that in every letter revealed from the heaven of the utterance of your Lord, the All-Merciful, there lieth treasured the spirit of all former and latter generations, and nothing that hath been created between the heavens and earth can equal it.   BH00545

And he will become so immersed in the manifestations of the lights that are neither of the East nor of the West that the world and whatsoever hath been ordained therein of the manifestations of beauty and the signs of glory and adorned things and diverse bounties will not prevent him from the eternal bounties which is the station of recognition of the Primal Point.  BH03220

And if thou desirest to soar in the atmosphere of thy Lord's nearness and become aware of that which hath been veiled from the eyes of His servants, say 'In the Name of God', then soar in the atmosphere of attraction and detachment until thou reachest the garden of the chosen ones. And when thou hast arrived therein and become aware of what is therein and their condition...   BH00710

Say: This is an ocean unto whose shore none hath attained, how much less unto its depths, were ye of them that perceive. Say: By God! Should all who are in the heavens and on earth dive therein, they would not be able to hear the call of a single pearl of its pearls, nor would they be able to bring forth what is treasured therein, save what the hand of grace may cast upon them.   BH01279

The mysteries of man's physical death and of his return have not been divulged, and still remain unread. By the righteousness of God! Were they to be revealed, they would evoke such fear and sorrow that some would perish, while others would be so filled with gladness as to wish for death, and beseech, with unceasing longing, the one true God -exalted be His glory - to hasten their end.  BH05241

Know thou that the question thou hast asked hath explanations and interpretations that cannot be set forth today, nor can ears bear to hear them, for souls are veiled by veils of darkness and eyes are covered by a veil of fire. However, were we to explain this, pages would not suffice nor could ears bear to hear it, therefore we conclude our words at this point and consider it sufficient.   BH01497

When he attains to this exalted station and this glorious homeland, it becomes incumbent upon him to be a trustee of God's knowledge-treasuries and a custodian of the pearls of His wisdom's mysteries. He must be a preserver of these divine knowledge-trusts deposited in the vessels of illumined hearts by God, the Creator of all beings. He must guard them as his own eyes and conceal them in his breast.   BH00330

If the veil were to be lifted, ye would not prefer the present life. Moreover, after the Supreme Affliction, ascending unto God is the greatest gift. I swear by God, before Whom there is none other, that were the veil to be removed, all would desire that they themselves, and their dearest relatives and friends, should return unto God as soon as possible. Divine wisdom, however, hath concealed this secret.  AB05200

Know that the mystics who have reached the depths of the seas of divine favor and have recognized the mysteries of the beginning in the end speak words that have an outward meaning while intending by them an inner significance. This is their way and custom, for which reason some of the ignorant denounce them as unbelievers, the contentious ones revile them, and the people of error dispute with them in speech.   BH00330

O Pen of the Most High! Write no more; for, by God, wert thou to set forth all the sweet accents of the fruits of this heavenly Tree, thou wouldst find thyself forsaken upon the earth, inasmuch as all would flee from thy presence and abandon thy court of holiness. And this, verily, is the undoubted truth. All glory, then, to the mysteries which none can bear save God, the sovereign Ruler, the Almighty, the Most Gracious!   BH01010

By God, this is a mystery more manifest than the sun at high noon, yet when We bestowed the Name apart from Our Self, the servants knew Us not. This mystery was veiled within mystery upon mystery, shrouded by yet another mystery, which none among all created things could fathom. When the idolaters persisted and thy Lord's appointed time was fulfilled, then did the Hand of Power lift from the face of mystery a veil of mystery.   BH01315

The measure of all created things hath been appointed in this concealed and manifest Temple, wherein lie enshrined the knowledge of the heavens and the earth, and of all things past and future. The finger of God's handiwork hath inscribed upon this Tablet that which the wisest and most learned of men are powerless to fathom, and hath created therein temples inscrutable to all save His own Self, could ye but apprehend this truth.  BH00007

And verily this is a hidden mystery preserved in holy treasuries, and none knoweth it save him whom God hath given insight that is veiled from eyes of steel. And verily this is such insight that were the people of the worlds of reality and the dwellers in the repositories of the Cause in the inmost sanctuaries of glory to perceive it, they would gasp within themselves and shudder in their beings, and would be unable to witness it.   BH00637

That station is devoid of limitations and analogies, sanctified beyond change or suspension, removed from the bounds of contingency, severed from all names and attributes - an impenetrable mystery that none in the realm of multiplicities can comprehend. It is veiled without a veil and concealed without a covering, hidden from all the worlds by the exaltation of its glory, yet most manifest beyond all things through the majesty of its station.  BB00219

And all was mentioned except a Name among the names, and when insistence was made, the first letter was uttered from the tongue. The dwellers of the chambers rushed forth from their celestial retreats, and when it came to the second letter, all fell prostrate upon the dust. At that moment a call was raised from the hidden place of nearness: No more than this is permitted. Verily, We were witnesses to what they did and to what they were then doing.  AB09643

In but one letter thereof lieth treasured the mysteries of knowledge and wisdom from the presence of One mighty and wise. Were We to expound a single letter thereof, all the tablets would not suffice, nor would all pens complete it, nor could any scroll encompass it. For each letter thereof hath its interpretation, and each interpretation its inner meaning, and each inner meaning yet deeper meanings, and symbols and allusions unto whatsoever God willeth.   BH01113


As to what thou hast asked concerning the esoteric sciences, know thou that most of what thou hast heard regarding these sciences neither nourishes nor profits, even should one master them. That which truly profiteth is the knowledge that lieth concealed within the treasuries of thy Lord's knowledge, which none hath discovered save God, the Most High, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. By the tongue of the wise it hath been called the Hidden Art and the Treasured Secret.  BH03032

Observe thou the consummate wisdom of God, that in that Guidance which was previously revealed and sent forth from the Pen of Command, We concealed two stations, and thou didst enquire about them. Nevertheless, from the Pen of Will there appeared no fitting explanation concerning the mention of those two stations. We concealed them in the divine treasuries of knowledge for these days, that thou mightest become aware of them and ask about the wisdom of their concealment.  BH00893

Likewise, in the realm of truth, past, present, and future are the same, and future events are even as past and present occurrences. From the perspective of that realm, all events and incidents take place in the present and are witnessed by the Prophets and the chosen ones. And so it is that the Prophets herald events that will transpire two or three thousand years hence, for they abide in the realm of truth, wherein the mysteries of the universe are revealed and laid bare.  AB00689

This phrase is from the writings of the late Shaykh Ahmad. A detailed treatise has been written about this but has not yet been copied. God willing, it will be copied and distributed. The meaning of that phrase refers to the passage in the Hidden Words, namely that the true morn is the Dawn of the Manifestation when the Bab appeared, and the blessed Tree refers to [the Ancient Beauty], and that space refers to the space of heart and soul, and the presence of the people refers to spiritual presence, not physical presence, and the divine call was raised in the space of heart and soul, and since [the people did not awaken], they became unconscious.  AB01109

Concerning what you mentioned about the stations of the heart, it was presented. He said that whatever was mentioned before regarding these stations was specific to those days. In these days all must gaze toward the Most Exalted Horizon and witness, without veil or covering, the effulgences of the lights of the Manifestation of God's Cause.  BH00292