Praise be befitting unto the Lord of existence Who brought creation into being for the sake of the Dawning-Place of His signs and the Dayspring of His evidences. Absolute existence came into being through Him and was adorned with the ornament of names and attributes. The ocean of knowledge and the luminary of proof dawned and surged through Him.  BH01148

The heaven of might and grandeur, and the firmament of power and justice, has encompassed all atoms and essences through the encompassing power of the names and attributes.  BH10338

The Most Holy One and the Sovereign Lord has established Himself upon the throne of grandeur and has manifested Himself through all names and attributes   AB06359

And He caused the mighty sphere of ancient and wondrous attributes to flow and circulate upon the sea of eternity through the blessing of one of the holy names.  BH10338

As to what thou didst write concerning the unveiling of the names and attributes - by God! We have rent asunder the veils and torn away the shrouds on the Day when We manifested Ourselves with all names unto all things. Blessed are they that behold! Blessed are they that know!   BH01427

Thy attributes can never resemble the attributes of Thy creatures, and Thy names can never be confused with the names of Thy creation. For Thou hast ever been All-Knowing, and the knowledge of all else before Thee is as nothing, and if mentioned, it is created by Thy knowledge.   BB00130

These are names wherewith God hath described His Self, that ye may describe. These are the nearest names in the Book of God, and the greatest. Say: The sea of names is two seas wherein ye traverse, seeing naught but God. Say: The names are like mirrors - do ye see aught but the Sun therein?  BB00005

All names are but attributes of His Will, and all attributes are but descriptions of His Purpose, that the servants might know their Creator and describe Him according to what He hath revealed unto them through them, that there is no God but Him - the Single, the One, the Eternal. Nothing comprehendeth Him and nothing is associated with Him.  BB00090

And regarding proof for the temporal eternity of contingent beings in this transient world - briefly, divine sovereignty is eternal, and the existence of beings is from the eternal effulgences of the Sun of Reality. One cannot imagine the sun without rays. All divine names and attributes are eternal, and their requirements are also eternal.   AB00695

God hath ninety-nine names. Were the name identical with the named, each name would be a god. But God [...] these names, and they are all other than He. O Hisham! 'Bread' is the name for that which is eaten, 'water' is the name for that which is drunk, 'garment' is the name for that which is worn, and 'fire' is the name for that which is burned."   BB00054

In every age different names are given to the same essence. In the time of Moses It was variously interpreted as Jehovah, the burning bush and the Interlocutor; in the Messianic Dispensation It was known by the titles of the Father, the son and the Holy Ghost and in the time of Mohamad It was designated as the Lord (Allah), the Friend of God and the Gabriel.   ABU2668

And in another sense it is applied to the Most Beautiful Names, whereby each Name of God, exalted be He, becometh a sun shining upon the horizons. For instance, observe the Name of God "the All-Knowing" - it is a sun that hath risen from the horizon of the will of thy Lord, the Most Merciful, and its lights, effects and splendors shine upon the temples of knowledge.  BH00271

The bounties of God are continuous. The effulgences of God are never-ending. The lights of the virtues and attributes of God are ever shining. Man can comprehend these. Man can comprehend qualities such as the mercy and the power of God. But the reality of divinity is beyond human comprehension. In brief, the human mind can comprehend only the names, attributes and bounties of God.   ABU0590

Furthermore, the reality of Divinity is characterized by certain names and attributes. Among these names are Creator, Resuscitator, Provider, the All-Present, Almighty, Omniscient and Giver. These names and attributes of Divinity are eternal and not accidental. This is a very subtle point which demands close attention. Their existence is proved and necessitated by the appearance of phenomena.   ABU0049

Lordship is My Name, whereof I have created manifestations in the world of being, while We Ourself remain sanctified above them, would ye but ponder this truth. And Godhead is My Name, whereof We have created exponents whose power shall encompass the people of the earth and make them true worshippers of God, could ye but recognize it. Thus should ye regard all Our Names, if ye be endued with insight.  BH00007

"Therefore, all the names and attributes of God require the existence of objects or creatures upon which they have been bestowed and in which they have become manifest. If there was a time when no creation existed, when there was none to provide for, it would imply a time when there was no existent One, no Trainer, and the attributes and qualities of God would have been meaningless and without significance."  ABU0403

But in the world of contingence when the lights of Its perfections and qualities shine these lights reflect in the mirrors of names and attributes but all names and attributes are in relation to that Essence in the same station. Whatever Name ye may call Him He is possesses of All Beautiful Names, whether Manifest or the Manifester, whether the Seer or the Seen One, whether the name the Unseen whether the Present One.   AB05549

Yet we ascribe certain names and attributes to the reality of the Divinity and praise Him for His sight, His hearing, His power, His life and knowledge. We affirm these names and attributes not to affirm the perfections of God but to deny that He has any imperfections. When we observe the contingent world we see that ignorance is imperfection and knowledge is perfection, and thus we say that the sanctified Essence of the Divinity is all-knowing.   AB00105

He hath brought forth the principles of names and attributes through the manifestation of His Will, and hath created the conditions of creation through the revelation of His Purpose, ascribing them unto Himself to manifest His transcendence and grandeur. He hath commanded all servants to call upon Him by these names and attributes, that the contingent may attain the ultimate bounty of His effulgence and the needy may reach the furthermost limit of their right.   BB00238

Glorified be He Who created the names and made them the means whereby His servants might attain unto the realms of eternity, that they may come to know that which was concealed from them in the Kingdom of Creation. There is none other God but Him, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Supreme, the Self-Subsisting. He hath ordained for every name an influence and sovereignty over the seen and the unseen, and hath made the effect of all names dependent upon His Most Great Name.  BH04736

His Essence is an inaccessible mystery beyond all description and name. He created those names and attributes so that whomsoever He willeth might know Him through them. This is the meaning of Husayn's words: "My God, Thou didst command me to return to the traces, so return me to them clothed in the lights of guidance and support, that I may return to Thee from them as I came unto Thee from them, my inner secret preserved from gazing upon them, my aspiration raised above dependence upon them."   BB00047

Tear ye asunder the veils of names and cleave ye their kingdom. By My Beauty! He Who is the Monarch of all names is come, He at Whose bidding every single name hath, from the beginning that hath no beginning, been created, He Who shall continue to create them as He pleaseth. He, verily, is the All-Powerful, the All-Wise.   BH00657

If I say He is One, that is a name among His names. If I say He is All-Glorious, the manifestation of that name is a name among His names. If I say He is All-Holy, He is the One Who is manifested by that name and its like. If I say He is Mighty, every mighty one boweth down before the sublimity of His might. If I say He is the Beloved, every beloved one is consumed in the love of knowing Him and the majesty of His might. If I say He is the Supreme, He is the One by Whose proof one findeth proof on the day of His manifestation.  BB00078

The Name hath infinite ranks within infinite ranks. The truth in all stations is as Ali, peace be upon him, hath said: The name is the mark of a thing, and it hath ranks. Among them is the name in realities, which in all its ranks is like a living being, such as man, indicating the named one. Among them are mirrors which indicate what is reflected in them through them. Among them are verbal names, inscribed names, angelic names, horizonal names, and names of the self, and among them is everything upon which the name of a name falls.  BB00088

All that thou seest in the Bayan of attributes, or witnesseth in thy heart of descriptions - these are what God hath created by His command. If thou sayest He is like camphor, that is its ordainment; if thou sayest He is pure, that is His dewdrop; if thou sayest He is unseen, that is His source; if thou sayest He is inaccessible, that is His essence. All the names thou seest or examples thou witnesseth are signs that God hath created for the exaltation of the Manifestation of His Self and the inaccessibility of the Dawning-Place of His Being.  BB00005

We have already explained that the very names and attributes of Divinity require the existence of created things. Although a detailed explanation of this matter was already provided, a brief mention will again be made here. Know that a lord without vassals cannot be imagined; a sovereign without subjects cannot be; a teacher without pupils cannot be designated; a creator without a creation is impossible; a provider without those provided for is inconceiveable-since all the divine names and attributes call for the existence of created things.   AB00077

Each of His names is a gateway to blessing, mercy, grace, bounty, protection and generosity, and the effects of each have been and continue to be the cause of order in the world and the preservation of nations. Through His name the Educator, He hath educated and continueth to educate the world, and in the Perspicuous Book He hath called Himself the Lord of all worlds. Through His name the Quickener, the breath of life was breathed, and through His name the Powerful, other effects appeared and infinite wisdom became manifest to those possessed of insight.  BH06510

Know thou that in Sufi exegesis it is affirmed, with respect to the Unseen Esence [ghayb-i huwiyyat] in the station of Primal Oneness, that all names are far from the shore of Its Sanctity and It is known without Name or Attribute. For the Names of the Absolute are the reflections of [Its] Attributes and the Attributes of the Absolute in that station of Primal Oneness are the same as its Essence without a trace of difference or distinction.  AB00006

Thine are the Most Beautiful Names in their essence and the Most Exalted Examples in their abstraction. I testify concerning that which hath been revealed from Him Whose name, when the doubled lam is not counted, equateth to a word of God, and Who hath ascended unto Thee with the emotions of His heart as best He could, mentioning before Thee such of Thy Most Beautiful Names as were revealed aforetime. I testify, and all Thy creation testifieth, that unto Thee belong all the Most Beautiful Names - their first and their last, their manifest and their hidden - and the Most Exalted Examples in their essence, their pristine nature, their simplicity and their abstraction.  BB00043

And now We shall rein in Our steed in the field of exposition and begin with an explanation of the meaning of the Name, saying that the divine names are derived from attributes which are perfections of the reality of the Essence. These names, in the station of the oneness of the Essence, have no outward manifestation or determination, no mark, no indication, and no signification. Rather, they are conditions of the Essence in the mode of simplicity and original unity. Then, in the station of Unity, they have manifestation, determination, realization, confirmation and existence, effusing and emanating from the All-Merciful Reality upon the spiritual realities and heavenly entities in the presence of the fixed archetypes.  AB00013

The Point in Its Primal station of Firstness hath ever been, and will continue forever to be. He is more true and befitting to be praised by all Names, than the praise of any Name for Itself. For instance, when the Name Divinity is present, the Name Lordship, and all other Names are also present therein, even though He Who is manifest by the Name of Divinity, He hath always been, and forever will continue to be, mentioned as the Divinity in the lofty station of the Point, while the Images of all Names remain manifest solely in the sublimity of Their own habitations. For He is the First at the time that He is the Last, and He is the Hidden at the time that He is the Manifest, and He is the One Who is praised by all the Names, at the very time that He is glorified above the praise by any Name.  BB00001

The other station is that wherein He is described by every attribute and characterized by every quality. This is the station wherein thou sayest: Thine are all the most excellent names and all the most exalted similitudes. From the name of Divinity to the final degrees of names thou dost mention Him, and callest upon Him as the Lord of the highest degrees and the Sovereign in the loftiest realm. This station existeth in the shadow of the former station. If thou wishest to observe its essence, thou wilt see that all names indicate the unity of His Essence, and that He is the One, the Single, the Unique, the Self-Subsisting, the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting, and so forth unto all that can be mentioned.  BB00005

Rather, He created the names and attributes so that all existing things might worship Him through them while declaring His transcendence above them, for they are created attributes and temporal names which God has created for the benefit of hearts and minds.   BB00214

A Manifestation of God is first proved by the characteristics of the divine essence shining from Him, as the existence of the sun is proved by the light and heat thereof. Because to prove the existence of God we must first know Him by His qualities. If you hear one is a king, who has neither subjects nor territory, how can it be proved that he is a king? He must have the preparation and other necessaries before he can rightly be called a king. Thus the attributes of God proved the necessity of creation. Some may say the attributes of God were preexistent, but god did not use them. This would be like the generous without generosity; the merciful without mercy. The attributes of God could not be delayed. ABU0810

As to the attributes and perfections such as will, knowledge, power and other ancient attributes that we ascribe to that Divine Reality, these are the signs that reflect the existence of beings in the visible plane and not the absolute perfections of the Divine Essence that cannot be comprehended.  AB00020

Glory be to Thee, O Lord my God! I implore Thee by Thy Name, through which Thou didst lift up the ensigns of Thy guidance, and didst shed the radiance of Thy loving-kindness, and didst reveal the sovereignty of Thy Lordship; through which the lamp of Thy names hath appeared within the niche of Thine attributes...Thou art, verily, the Healer, the Preserver, the Helper, the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Glorious, the All-Knowing.  BH07721

All attributes of the Essence are for sweeping clean the people of glory, such as Life, for as He was Ever-Living without the existence of anything, likewise He was All-Knowing without the mention of anything, and All-Powerful without the existence of anything. There is no how to this, for it is beyond the geometry of origination and the how of the essence of invention, and is identified through the mention of creation and exemplified through the examples of bringing into being.  BB00032

"Thus, the attributes are specifications that exist in the essence but are not distinguished from it. They are seen and unseen."  AB06442

