Name him Adib   AB07310

Name them Tuba and Ruha.   AB12061

Name thy descendant Suhrab.  AB10509

Name the young girl Atiyyih.  AB01598

We have named her Farahangiz   BH10771

Name that daughter Baha'iyyih.  AB12448

Name the newborn child Khurshid  AB12313

Name the newborn child Khavar.   AB05907

Name the newborn child Khurshid [Sun]  AB12629

We have named thy new baby Noor (Light).  AB11386

He was named Aqa Jan in an exalted Tablet.  BH10772

Thy name is Joseph. Let thy title be Bahai.  AB02101

As for the leaf, We have named her Zuhuriyyih  BH02274

We have named thee in the Tablet 'Mardiyyih.'  BH11617

Give the name Nourieh to Mrs. Marcella Morgan!  AB06851

We have named thee, at this moment, Nuri'd-Din.   BH10041

Through Qabil to Mashhadi 'Ali-Bakhsh... this new name  AB10867

Name the son of Aqa [Hasan-'Ali] Khan Bandar-'Abbasi 'Abbas  AB07747

But for the newborn, give the name of one of your two old friends   AB01684

As Thou hast named him Beauty, make him beautiful in all conditions  BH09843

My remembrance is unto My handmaiden whom God hath manifested in His days   BH09356

Name Walter Buchanan's son Ruhi. Name his grandson Carl Knothe Jr. Suheil.  AB00238

We have named her whom God has given distinction among all created things.   BH09732

We named the newborn Hadi so that he may become a manifestation of guidance   AB07512

"As for the spiritual child Helen Janet Nash, I have named her Qamar (Moon)."  AB07868

O Lord! Name him in Thy Kingdom 'Abdu'l-Baha and in Thy realm 'Abdu'l-Husayn   AB05507

O thou who art named after guidance! Mahdi means the Manifestation of guidance   AB05423

As to your dear daughter, name her after her late grandmother Habibih or Parvin.  AB00306

When We heard of his arrival and news, We named him Hassan in the Book of Names.   BH09139

O Aqa Dadash! Rejoice thou in that We have named thee Husayn in the Book of Names.   BH09644

Name the boy Hussein as this is part of the blessed name, and name the girl Zahra.   AB00796

"Praise thou the Best-Beloved of the worlds that thou hast been named by this name."  BH09794

O Most Exalted Pen! Make mention of My sister's daughter who hath been named after her   BH08339

Name your dear daughter Faridih, and your elder son Faridun, and your younger son Bahram.  AB12668

We have answered what you asked Us regarding the name. We have named it "Spiritual Company"   BH09102

one We named the Upper Gate, and another the Most Noble Gate, after thee and Aqa 'Ali-Ashraf  AB07744

and name the apple of her eye "Hasan" in the Kingdom of Names, and make him one of Thy gifts  AB06009

What a pure name thou possessest, before which all names bow down in humility and submission!  AB10936

We have named the newborn "Ruhi" and his father "Rahmani", and the heart of both is spiritual.  AB07772

"A name hath no importance, for a name must needs have a bearer (i.e., deserving a high name)."  AB05606

I give thee the name Natekah (i.e., Speaker-gifted with speech; it can also be written Nategheh)   AB03890

We have named God's destined grace and His sent-down feast as 'Shu'a' [Ray] in the Kingdom of Names.  BH10725

Name your second son after his illustrious grandfather, and Khadijih is a blessed name for the daughter.  AB08767

For the new child of that illustrious person, the name Ardishir is acceptable and this is a blessed name.  AB06643

I have given the name of Gohar (pearl) to Mrs. Ida Slater and Monavvar (illumined) to Mrs. Minnie Lanyon.  AB10496

We have named Our servant with a portion of Our Most Exalted Name, and he is Hussein in the Book of Names.   BH11473

Name the newborn Mahmud. It is hoped that in the world of the Kingdom he may attain a praiseworthy station.  AB08672

Name the newborn Mahmud. It is hoped that he may attain a praiseworthy station in the realm of the Kingdom.  AB08672

And we beseech Thee to name him in the Book of Names "The Exalted" that those with him may rejoice thereby.   BH09733

Give the newly pure leaf the true original name of Amatu'l-Baha and the common name among people of Fatimih.  AB08300

and name him from Thy Kingdom "Shoghi," that he may yearn for Thy Kingdom and long for the realms of Thy mystery  AB07774

We make mention of thy son who hath been named 'Abdu'l-Husayn, as a token of grace from Us in this forbidden place   BH10108

Name the German Husayn and the Austrian Hasan, and in these names there is a wisdom which you will later understand.  AB08648

For 'Abbas in the Arabic tongue signifieth "brave lion" and "great lion." This name must needs have its true exemplar.  AB09562

his name in the Kingdom is "Servant of the Most Desired One", that is, 'Abdu'l-Baha, and among the people 'Abdu'l-'Ali  AB09666

Ghulam-Husayn and Abdu'l-Baha both carry the same meaning, but the latter is sweeter, more pleasant, and more endearing.  AB08768

Name him Ibrahim, that the mention of your departed father may be revived, and that when his name is uttered, he may be remembered.  AB09403

Name him Mirza Aqa so that he may be a memorial to that Afnan of the Divine Tree and near one at the threshold of the Divine Unity.   AB05450

We have named the child after the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all who dwell in the Kingdom of Names be a sacrifice unto Him   BH11126

Give the name "Rooha" (i.e., Spiritual) to your new born child, and let your own name be "Saffa" (this, in Arabic, means Peter or Rock).   AB07409

"The name Aseyeh is acceptable in the Threshold of Oneness, for the daughter of Pharaoh had this name" "Aseyeh was the name of my mother."  AB01389

We have named thee with this name at this time that thou mayest glory in that which hath moved the Tongue of Grandeur in His mighty prison   BH03575

Name him Yusif Baha'i, that he may be nurtured in the education of the Abha Kingdom and grow and develop under the shade of the Blessed Tree.  AB05127

This is Thy servant whom Thou hast brought forth from the loins of one of Thy loved ones and named Jalal (Glory) in the kingdom of Thy names...   BH09856

We have honored thee with a name from Us, and named thee Splendor in the Kingdom of creation. This is better for thee than all that is on earth.  BH09946

Regarding the new blessing, namely the daughter you mentioned, she has been named Jamilih. God willing, may her steps be blessed and auspicious.   BH00766

O Lord! Name Thy servants with the name 'Abdu'r-Rahman. Verily Thou art the One Who enableth whomsoever Thou lovest to servitude, O Merciful One!   AB07422

O namesake of 'Abdu'l-Baha! Abbas in Arabic means "lion", but this name requires one who embodies it, and this title necessitates brilliant traces.   AB06797

O 'Ismat! Blessed is thy name. Thy name is the highest adornment for women - thus hath spoken the Lord of the Kingdom of Names from the supreme horizon.   BH09135

Let the newborn daughter be named Shawq-Angiz [Excitement-Stirring], that she may be enkindled with the fire of yearning in the love of her Great Master   AB05933

Children are meant to perpetuate one's name and remembrance in the world - and this only if they be adorned with praiseworthy deeds and pleasing character.   BH03586

Through Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Asadu'llah of Egypt to Jinab-i-Mirza Abu'l-Qasim of Isfahan, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious... Name him Muhammad 'Inayat.  AB08903

Through Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Asadu'llah of Egypt to Jinab-i-Mirza Abu'l-Qasim-i-Isfahani, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious... Name him Muhammad 'Inayat.  AB08903

I have named the precious newborn Hadi, that this name may be a perfect omen and in the future keep alive the name of Mirza Hadi, that honored, divine and merciful one  AB10223

blessed is thy son who hath been named Muhammad, and thy daughter who hath been named Sultan...And We make mention of thy nephew who hath been named Muhammad before Ibrahim.   BH04588

We have named her whom We gave to thee and him "Bahiyyih" in the Kingdom of Names, and We have entitled her "Handmaiden of the Remembrance" that thou mayest be among the thankful.   BH07495

As to what thou didst request regarding the name, We have named thee before the Throne 'Abdu'l-Baha. This is from Our favor unto thee, that thou mayest be among those who remember.  BH04064

Give them the names Leah and Rachel, which are the names of the two wives of Jacob, for they were two sisters, beloved of God. Perchance God hath destined profound wisdom in this.   AB06517

this new bounty which Thou hast sent down from the heaven of Thy grace and revealed through Thy generosity and bounty, and which Thou hast named Fakhru'd-Din in Thy perspicuous Book   BH06845

O Zahra! Zahra means radiant. For this reason Venus is called Zahra because it is a bright star. Since your name is Zahra, you must therefore arise according to what this name requires.  AB07433

As for naming with the Blessed Name, meaning Baha'u'llah, and with the name of the Exalted One, meaning the Bab or the Primal Point - this is not permitted. However, naming 'Abdu'l-Baha is permitted.   AB04387

As for the newborn, We have named him with the first pillar of the two names, and have made mention of him in such wise that his remembrance and name shall endure through the endurance of God's names.   BH02502

Henceforth we shall address you as "Amatu'l-Baha" (Maid-servant of Baha), to indicate that you have attained a new distinction. This title is a crown of honor upon your head, whose jewels and pearls will shine forever.  AB12095

O Bahram! Bahram is a star that illumines both East and West, and a radiance that makes the dark world rival a rose garden and meadow. Therefore, since you are remembered by this name and sign at the Divine Threshold...   AB05105

As for what ye mentioned concerning Ibn-i-Badi', upon him be the glory of God, he hath been named 'Inayatu'llah. Thus hath it been sent down from the heaven of the favor of our Lord, the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.   BH01320

O my Lord and my God! This is a child whom Thou hast brought forth from the loins of one of Thy servants, for whom Thou hast ordained a station among the stations in the tablets of Thy decree and the pages of Thy destiny.   BH10076

You have given the dear child a blessed name. God willing, he is Faydullah. I hope that he will receive the bounties of the Abha Beauty, grow and develop under the shadow of grace, and become a manifestation of great success.  AB01916

O my Lord! As You have given him in these days a wondrous daughter - tender, fresh, verdant and flourishing - name her in Your Kingdom "Sakinih," that his heart may find tranquility through her and his spirit find rest through her.  AB08099

We make mention of thy sons as a favor from Us - verily thy Lord is the Munificent, the Generous. Blessed are they in that they have been mentioned before the Throne and the Pen of God, the Mighty, the Beautiful, hath moved to make mention of them.   BH05791

O Ja'far! We have changed thy name at this time by a command from thy Lord, the All-Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, and We have named thee Jalal in the Kingdom of Names as a bounty from Our presence unto thee that thou mayest be among the thankful.   BH02514

Then know that We have named your son in the Kingdom of Names 'Abdu'l-Baha... Then know, O Baqir, that We have named your son outwardly with the first pillar of My name, which is Husayn, and inwardly with 'Abdu'l-Baha. Thus was the matter decreed by the Pen of the Spirit.   BH04754

Regarding what you wrote about the newborn child belonging to you and Aqa Siyyid Muhammad, it was presented before the Most Holy Court. He said: "Today these names are beloved before the Throne: Diya, Badi', Husayn, and 'Ali. You and your brother may choose whichever one you desire."  BH01039

may the advent of this blessed and praiseworthy child be auspicious in both the visible and invisible realms of existence. Undoubtedly it will be a source of blessing, and his name in the Kingdom shall be the servant of the Desired One, meaning 'Abdu'l-Baha, and among the people 'Abdu'l-'Ali   AB09666

O thou who art attracted by the Fragrances of God! Thank God for giving and granting thee "sight of eyes" (i.e., a son) whereby thy bosom becomes dilated and thy heart rejoiced. Then make his name "Ruhullah" (i.e., the Spirit of God), so that the spirit of thy Lord, the Merciful of the Merciful, will confirm him.  AB07712

When thou wishest to name a babe, prepare a meeting therefor; chant the verses and communes, and supplicate and implore the Threshold of Oneness and beg the attainment of guidance for the babe and wish confirmated firmness and constancy; then give the name and enjoy beverage and sweetmeat. This is spiritual baptism.  AB00587

When thou wishest to name a babe, prepare a meeting therefor; chant the verses and communes, and supplicate and implore the Threshold of Oneness and beg the attainment of guidance for the babe and wish confirmated firmness and constancy; then give the name and enjoy beverage and sweetmeat. This is spiritual baptism.   AB00587

This revered name was, in the Dispensation of the Furqan, a banner raised for the Wronged One who was honored, and in this Dispensation it is the first element of the Greatest Name. Observe how blessed it is! Though outwardly it is the diminutive of Hasan, in reality it is the Sun of the horizon of grandeur and majesty.  AB09329

I will give him a Persian name - a very beautiful name, a significant name. It was customary in the olden time to delay a christening until a fortunate time according to the astrological calendar...Now, as to your child, it is by chance that on the day that we are here, associating with you, a name will be given to him so that he will be very blest.   ABU0629

If God granteth you a male child, give him the title of 'Abdu'l-Baha and name him Husayn or 'Ali. This is what We have commanded you, if ye be of them that act. And if it be a female child, give her the title of Amatu'l-Baha and name her Dhakriyyih that ye may remember thereby the Day wherein the Most Great Remembrance of God will come to you with manifest sovereignty; or name her Nuriyyih or Sadhijiyyih or 'Azziyyih. All of this We have ordained for you in holy and resplendent Tablets.   BH10171

Regarding the heavenly title for Jinab-i-Sani' that you had written about - that he desires to be remembered at the Divine Threshold by some mention and given a special title - therefore Jinab-i-Sani' is known at the Threshold of Truth as "Badi'u'l-Mawhibih" (Wondrous Gift). And I hope that the meaning and reality of every title will become embodied in his essence, so that the realities and meanings of every attribute may shine forth and become evident like rays of light from the lamp of his reality.   AB05427

O 'Abdu'l-Husayn, how blessed is this name, and how sacred this title! The realities of sanctification yearn for this cherished name and precious designation, and when it is uttered they are moved to ecstasy and joy, for this servant is associated with the Light of the two Easts, the Radiance of the two Horizons, and the Sun of the two worlds, being named after Husayn. This is the Most Great Name, this is the most noble talisman, this is the luminous full moon, and this is the brilliant sun. Blessed art thou to be designated by this name.  AB08794

Furthermore, regarding what you mentioned about the name Qurratu'l-'Ayn, this servant had not seen that letter nor was it presented before His countenance. After my learning of it, turning toward Him, ascending and presenting it, he was named "The Trustworthy", entitled "The Wondrous", and given the kunyih "Father of Faithfulness" in the presence of Him Whom I cannot adequately describe before the peoples who have been veiled by the veils of idle fancies and thereby been prevented from witnessing that which hath appeared, shone forth, emerged and risen from the horizon of possibility.   BH01111
