"How will the unity of mankind be established?"  Abdul Baha's answer was: When you remove the causes thereof. These causes are racial, patriotic and religious bias or prejudice. This bias will be removed and when it is removed, people will live in friendliness, kindness and love which will bring forth unity.

Glory is not for one who loves his homeland, but for one who loves the world.   AB01180

"Glory is not for him who loveth his country, but for him who loveth the world."   BH00709

The doors of Colleges and Universities must be wide open to the adherents of all religions and the members of all nationalities - so that these different people from widely-scattered countries may meet and associate with each other in those educational institutions, learn each others' customs and habits, interchange their ideas and discard their purposeless prejudices. In this way these young men and women will grow up with the ideas of World patriotism. ABU1512


The 'country' to which most every Westerner ascribes his allegiance is no other than a 'cage', wherein the souls are imprisoned. Instead of giving perfect freedom to the birds of their minds and hearts to soar in the infinite space of 'world patriotism', they are strengthening and decorating the bar[s] of their 'gilded cage'. Is this not short-sightedness! Is this not a foolish dream out of which they will be awakened one day! This 'cage' is not a delectable paradise to require so much care and attention. It is a dark and gloomy abode, airless and rayless. Why are they sacrificing their lives for this nothingness?   ABU0812

You can best serve your country if you strive, in your capacity as a citizen of the world, to assist in the eventual application of the principle of federalism, underlying the government of your own country, to the relationships now existing between the peoples and nations of the world.  ABU3361

The human world, which is the dawning-place of the All-Merciful, has become an arena of warfare and bloodshed. One makes religion the cause of demolishing every firm foundation, another makes faith and belief an excuse for savagery in the human world, another imagines an illusory homeland and rises up in dishonesty in the name of patriotism, another claims valor and courage and stains his hand with human blood and begins oppression and torment against his fellow man. AB00406

This is clear, that each nation now wishes complete self-determination and freedom of action.   ABU1145

One should not pride oneself on loving one's country, but rather should pride oneself on loving humankind.  BHU0015

the foundation of this assembly is the oneness of the world of humanity, and its system is love between all people, and its principles are the abandonment of racial, religious, denominational, national and political prejudices, for all these prejudices are delusions. These prejudices are bloodthirsty and destroy the edifice of humanity, and are the cause of hatred and animosity and the spilling of men's blood and the captivity of women and the orphaning of children and the destruction of countries and the displacement of great multitudes  AB00737

His Holiness Baha'u'llah says: "It is not his to boast who loveth his country, but it is his who loveth the world."  AB01815

On his return the Master found several people waiting for him. From one he asked from what country he comes? He answered with fervor and too much vehemence: "I am from ---" In order to gently rebuke him and show him this false emotion of patriotism he said the following story: "Once upon a time the King of a certain country got hold of an owl and put it in a large golden cage and hanging it in his royal Park which was a mass of luxuriant flowers and tall trees. The King observed that the owl was not happy in this wonderful Park and always laments "Oh! My country! O my country!" Finally he ordered to let the owl fly out of the cage and he with a number of his retinue, followed the course of the owl's flight. After many hours the owl alighted on the dilapidated wall of a ruined and deserted castle (it is proverbial in the Orient that the owl loves always the destroyed buildings) and screechingly cried out "Oh how happy am I! At last I reached my beloved country! My abode of rest! My paradise of delight! My heavenly hope is now fulfilled!"  ABU2487

In the East, mention of homeland has never caused excitement and unity among Easterners, nor has it been a source of great results.  ABU3138

That is why Baha'o'llah says: "Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his country, let him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind."   ABU1651

'When I was traveling in Europe, I observed every nation crying at the top of her voice: "O my Country! O my dear Country! O my beloved Country!" I said: Oh, my friends! What are all these clamors for? Why all these acclamations? Why all these uproars and outcries? Why all this hullabaloo? These countries over which you are so vociferous and at every moment show the signs of obstreperousness, are One Country, the home of humanity. Wherever man chooses to live, there is his home and his country. God has not divided this earth. It is one globe, one sphere. These boundaries that you have defined are the greatest illusions that man could ever conceive in his mind. They have no reality. It is similar to the division of one room into different sections, with so many hypothetical lines, calling this corner Germany, that corner France and another corner England. Of a truth, these suppositional lines have no outward existence. These assumed boundaries are canine divisions, for it is observed that a number of dogs divide among themselves the public square into various sections and if one dare to go beyond the limit set for it, and trespass on the rights of others, the rest will set up a dreadful howl and bark and go for it; notwithstanding that these imaginary lines have no real forms or shapes. ABU0099

God is the Creator of all the creatures. He made men to dwell in His land and He made them rulers of whatsoever exists of animals, vegetables, minerals, water and air. He did not make any distinction one from another. Then the people divided this land into sections and named one "England," another "France," "Germany," " America," etc., and they began to fight and make battle. He created man gentle, peaceful and social, without sharp claws and long canine teeth. Then man invented the sword and death-dealing instruments. Therefore, universal peace must be established, religions must be unified and equality must be accomplished. ABU2812

Close your eyes to regional imaginings and worship of borders and territory and open them to the divine Kingdom. The homeland of humanity is pure hearts, not water and soil.   AB00571

If the father of a youth who believes in God is killed in the war - he will say to himself I have God for my father, whose Fatherhood is eternal. He is the Comforter of the broken-hearted ones. The miraculous power of Faith will cheer them up and heal their wounds. How difficult indeed is for those souls who are left behind to comfort themselves. Are the Kings and the emperors their comforters? Can they console themselves because they have shed their blood for their taskmasters, or for a piece of earth they have been led to believe as their 'country', the defence of which is 'patriotic'? Those who are left behind are sadly disillusioned but there will be neither hope nor courage to go on with their work while they are surrounded with so much misery. If they had shed their blood for a 'very great Cause', it would at least console their remnants; but now it is all for greed, selfishness, national pride, commercial motives etc.  ABU1099

This morning looking down from the window I saw a regiment of soldiers are passing by in fine shape. They were ready to fight for the fatherland. How barbarous and foolish it is to send men who know not each other at all to the battlefield and order them to shoot down each other and cut each other's throats. But let us talk about our own war. Our Grand Army consists of the invisible angels of the Supreme Concourse; our swords are the swords of light; our armaments are the invincible armaments of heaven.  ABU1388

When I was present at an important gathering in Alexandria, a certain patriot arose to voice his praise and support for his country. He recited a poem and then, with the utmost pride, he repeatedly made the following remark, which stirred those in attendance to more excitement than any of the other addresses had: 'We belong to the people who built the pyramids.' I said to the pasha sitting near me, How strange! The Muslims of Egypt are not the Copts, that they should pride themselves in this way on having built the pyramids (the tomb of Pharaoh). And they wish to promote love for their country with this pride? If this act of building is a source of pride, then it is the people of Pharaoh who should boast, not the people of Islam, for it was Pharaoh who built the pyramids - and what is more, those buildings were constructed through oppression. For fifteen years, Pharaoh made sixteen thousand of his hapless subjects to work every day. With excruciating toil and hardship, they built the pyramids so that Pharaoh might conceal his own corpse there. Here is the pivot around which the pride of this people revolves! Observe what things men vaunt themselves over!  ABU3686

the first divine teaching is that communities must be freed from racial, political and even patriotic prejudice, that all men are of one race and the whole universe one land. Consider how unwise and short-sighted are the leaders, the politicians and the philosophers of the present age! The American continent and Europe, that is, Germany and France, are a small portion of the terrestrial globe. What is the importance of this globe?-for it commands no importance when compared to these infinite bodies that abound in the limitless space; it is like unto an insignificant spot on the surface of the wide ocean. No importance should be attached to the terrestrial globe, how much less to one of the countries of the globe. The inhabitants of countries are so immersed in their imaginations that they carved for themselves statues of imagination, which they worship, when actually they are naught but fantastic images, yet in spite of that they are worshipped by everyone.  AB01150

"Using patriotism as a pretext, such hatred and enmity has appeared in hearts that each nation has sharpened its claws and teeth against other nations, and like bloodthirsty wolves they attack one another, calling this love of country and nationalism"  AB00607

In the matter of universal Peace, a great universal Power is necessary, what we may name a "Universal Collective Center." In the past there have appeared several "Collective Centers." These "Collective Centers" not being general in their various aspects have given only limited results. One of the "Collective Centers" has been and is yet considered the "spirit of nationalism." This "spirit" has brought together the various individual members of different tribes and communities into one "Collective Center" called "nation." For example the different petty principalities of Germany for a long time worked against each other's interests, jealousy protecting their so-called "freedom." The "spirit of nationalism" which was meant to become a most powerful "Collective Center" was born through the genius of Bismark. Again the birth of this "spirit" was evidenced in America in the union of the states through the wisdom of Washington, Franklin and Jefferson. In like manner other nations have come into being at various periods of human history when the "spirit" of nationalism was born and the existence of the "Collective Center" felt essential. Another "Collective Center" is "patriotism" the watchword and the battle-cry of the present nations. A third "Collective Center" is politics. It is evident that the interest of one nation is the loss to another and we can see that as long as these three "Collective Centers" are dominant in the affairs of the world Universal Peace will not be realized. These "nations" look upon each other with the eyes of difference, they try to improve the conditions of their native countries at the expense of others and their interests clash and come within the range of conflict. Therefore all these "Collective Centers" instead of helping the cause of international Peace prevent its realization. Consequently in this illumined century, the intellectual evolution of humanity has advanced far enough as to create a "Universal Collective Center" around which all the nations may revolve, thus sacrificing their petty interests for the progress of the whole. ABU1222

The Speaker of Sinai in this Dispensation hath spoken thus: Glory is not his who loveth his country, but glory is his who loveth the world. This utterance hath, ere this, shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of God's holy Tablet. Well is it with them that comprehend!  BH00128

He created one homeland, and that is the earth. All people are inhabitants of this homeland, yet different factions have introduced differences in all matters, even regarding homeland, as can be observed when they say This one is from Aleppo, this one from Damascus, this one from Iraq.  BH06408

Presently, different groups of people in the world have made claims to various portions of the earth and have drawn lines around it, considering it to be solely theirs. They say, "This is my nation and that is yours!" On this side of one line is a friend, on the other they see an enemy. We behave like dogs, considering a corner of a street to be ours, and, as soon as another dog approaches our territory, we attack. The only earth that belongs to man is the one that will ultimately be poured over him. Is it not a waste for so much bloodshed for this unworthy soil?  ABU0994

On the other hand, every country must be properly delimited, its exact frontiers marked, its national integrity secured, its permanent independence protected, and its vital interests honoured by the family of nations. These services ought to be rendered by and impartial, international Commission.   ABU0776

God has created the world as one - the boundaries are marked out by man. God has not divided the lands, but each man has his house and meadow; horses and dogs do not divide the fields into parts. That is why Baha'u'llah says: "Let not a man glory in that he loves his country, but that he loves his kind."  ABU1891

All these trials and tribulations occur for the sake of dust which they call homeland, while this dust is but a temporary foothold and ultimately man's eternal grave. What sacrifices they make for a graveyard! How much loss and harm they endure! Yet they remain joyful and glad, crying out "The homeland! The homeland!"  AB00983


"There is no difference between Paris and London. All these limitations, all these divisions into various nationalities are due to the weakness of man. If man's mind were broad enough, if it were strong enough, these divisions would vanish. The earth is God's earth and all the peoples of the world are under His grace and favour."  ABU1068

one unifying force is nationality and race, like the Hungarian people, the French, German and English races. This nationality is a unifying force that brings individuals together, just as your society unites the Turanians. But this power cannot bring about the unity of the world's peoples - rather, it prevents universal peace and unity  ABU1248

Another unifying force is patriotism. This too prevents unity and agreement between nations and parties, since the people of each country put their own homeland first. The French say all countries should be under our homeland. Similarly, out of love for homeland, each establishes privileges for their own country and wants others to be conquered and subjugated  ABU1248

These geographical boundaries are made by man, calling one piece of land Austria, another Germany, a third French, a Fourth English and so forth. The dogs in Oriental cities instinctively divide the various quarters amongst themselves and if by chance one of the dogs crosses the boundary he will be attacked. But these boundary lines are all imaginary. They have no real existence.  ABU1066

When I was in Europe, every nation was crying Fatherland! Fatherland! Fatherland! I would say: My dear ones, what is this all about? Where does all this clamor come from? This homeland you are shouting about is the surface of the earth - it is humanity's homeland. Wherever anyone dwells becomes their homeland. God has not divided this earth - it is all one sphere. These boundaries you have established are imaginary boundaries with no reality.  ABU0135

It is evident to the wise, people of thought, and those possessed of knowledge that dispersion in the human world - that is, disunity - is the cause of their abasement, the source of their degradation, the reason for their disorder, and the root of their ignorance. However, if they form a united society, it becomes the cause of their progress and their civilization. This being evident, they say that the human world requires a unifying force to bring individuals together and achieve this progress. Now, at times this unifying force is patriotism. Being fellow citizens is indeed a unifying force. However, this applies only to general benefits and harms and the attraction of common good; it has no authority in specific matters and no power over individuals. It is a unifying force in general matters, but only to a degree. For instance, the people of one country will defend against an external enemy to protect their nation, but only to a certain extent....  what truly serves as the unifying force of human society is religion. It unites different religions, unifies different nations, brings together different races, unites different languages, and unifies different homelands. It blends individuals together, melts them down and remolds them anew. For instance, observe how the Christian religion was a divine unifying force, what unity it created. The religion of Muhammad, Islam, how many different nations it united. The unity of religion eliminated all these differences.   ABU0987

As for the matter of homeland - that this one is European, that one American, another African - they have even drawn imaginary lines dividing a single continent, though all earth is one land. Can one say that because I dwell in this house I must consider my neighbor a stranger? Because this is my house, therefore you are a foreigner and your house is not my homeland? Should one kill the neighbor and destroy his house? Thus patriotic prejudice is also fantasy and the basis of strife and conflict.  ABU0032

Although this aspiration and thought is beneficial for themselves, their family, and indeed all their fellow citizens and countrymen, it is detrimental to other nations. For they strive with all their might to direct all the benefits of humanity toward their own nation, all the bounties of the earth to their own family, and all the happiness of the human world to themselves. They consider that the decline of other nations and neighboring powers leads to the advancement of their own nation and country, so that through this means they might achieve supremacy and dominance over others in power, wealth and authority.  AB00158
