These foolish ones worship nature while denying its Creator.   AB03841

Now, can it be said that such organization, such arrangement, and such laws that you observe in existence are the effects of nature itself, even though it has neither consciousness nor perception? Therefore it becomes evident that this nature, which has neither consciousness nor perception, is in the grasp of the Almighty God Who is the Ruler of the world of nature, manifesting through nature whatever He desires.  AB01029


Many who wrote or visited 'Abdu'l-Baha would ask this question: God being omnipresent, why would it not be enough to concentrate on His presence in the natural world, rather than to believe in a man, a Prophet, claiming to be the intermediary between man and God? As, for example, Jesus claimed, when He said, 'I am the way. . . no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. ' As His Tablets and addresses show, the Master gave many answers to this question. When Khan was in the Holy Land, 'Abdu'l-Baha made this reply to an American inquirer: There was once an Arab traveler who had lost his way in the desert. He was dying of thirst and, humbly, he begged God for water. Suddenly on the far horizon he saw an oasis with waving trees, and he knew that there could be no trees and greenery unless water was present too. When he had somehow dragged himself across the sands and reached the oasis, how did he go about quenching his thirst? Was his conviction enough for him, that growing things meant water? Or did he search avidly for a source, a crack in a rock or an opening in the earth where water could get through and he could drink and live?  Believing that God is present in nature has never been enough. This belief has never founded, and could never found, a civilization. But belief in God's Chosen Ones, His Prophets, through Whom come the living waters of His revelation, has created structures in the life of man that the revolution of many ages and cycles could not destroy, and brought him holy light that time could never dim. ABU1594

Verily, Nature is the embodiment of My Name, the Maker, the Creator. The philosophers of the past and the present maintain that the universal nature is unknowable; it cannot be sensed or understood, while all that occurs in this world are requisites of Nature; the same way that hunger and thirst are requisites of the human body, and burning is one of the requisites of fire. They attribute all these conditions and phenomena, even the movement of the chain of beings and their development and growth, to Nature, and consider Nature as the source of all beings.  AB00373



