Nearer my God to Thee, nearer to Thee!   ABU3103

Strive that you may be drawn nearer unto God.  ABU2622

Verily He is nearer to thee than thou art to thyself  BH10977

"Man must ever be thinking of drawing nearer to God."  ABU1896

their benevolent endeavors might cause them to draw near to Your threshold   AB11885

I beg of God that thou mayest always enjoy spiritual nearness and ever be rejoiced.  AB09522

Draw nigh unto God and be not of those who have denied God, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH07185

"You are near to God, and day by day you will progress by the knowledge of God toward spiritual joy."  ABU2917

What profiteth you is to draw nigh unto this Beauty Who in these days was wronged among the oppressors.   BH03883

Then ordain for them from Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will draw them nigh unto Thee in every world of Thy worlds.  BH10518

If thou attainest intimacy with God, thou wilt pass beyond the transient kingdom and find thy dwelling in the realm of rest   BH10387

You seek nearness to the divine threshold and yearn for the Beauty of Abha. I make mention of you, and you engage in prayer.  AB11520

This is the means of drawing nigh unto the Court of Grandeur, this is the most great means, and this is the greatest intermediary.  AB06399

When ye desire to approach the shore of the Most Great Ocean, turn ye unto Him with a countenance illumined by the light of the Throne.  BH11798

In every moment, taste the holy water of nearness from the fingers of divine companionship, then turn away from every prideful oppressor.  BH11737

I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art exalted above all, to withhold them not from the shore of Thy nearness, nor to keep them back from the Kawthar of life that floweth from the Pen of Thy name, the Most Merciful.  BH05073

Love of God, Knowledge of God is the greatest, the only real happiness, because it is Nearness to God. This is the Kingdom of God. To love God is to know Him. To know Him is to enter His Kingdom and be near Him.   ABU1696

Thus it is that those who are nearest at this feast are given a fuller cup of tribulation. This is why He says: Do ye think that ye shall enter Paradise while yet there hath not come unto you the like of that which came to those who passed away before you? Affliction and trials befell them.  AB04556

The more a man seeketh light from the Sun of Truth, the nearer he will draw. For instance, a clear body is near unto the sun, and a black stone is far from the sun. This nearness dependeth upon clearness, purity and perfection and that remoteness is due to density, dullness (or obscurity) and imperfection.  AB00448

The greatest gift in the human world is nearness to God. Every honor, every dignity, every excellence, every bounty that becomes possible for humanity is made possible through divine nearness. All the Prophets and Messengers sought divine nearness - how many nights they wept and lamented, how many days they beseeched and supplicated, seeking nearness to God. But divine nearness is not easily attained.  ABU0095

It is evident that the divine nearness is an unlimited nearness, be it in this world or the next one. This is a nearness which is sanctified from the comprehension of the minds. The more a man seeketh light from the Sun of Truth, the nearer he will draw. For instance, a clear body is near unto the sun, and a black stone is far from the sun. This nearness dependeth upon clearness, purity and perfection and that remoteness is due to density, dullness (or obscurity) and imperfection.  AB00448

Now the Point of Truth is concealed in the throne of His invisibility, watching over His servants, witnessing the Concourse on High, sending down upon them His effulgences, and being aware of their deeds in all that was and will be created. He is the Point of nearness and remoteness -- His remoteness is His nearness and His nearness His remoteness, for the Essence of Eternity is sanctified above this, and the Manifestation of Ancient Days is holy beyond such mention. He hath placed the sign of His truth in every form, bringing forth within it infinite effulgences, and through that effulgence He hath manifested Himself to all creation. Whoever hath adopted the character of the spiritual ones and the exalted ones, that sign of effulgence hath appeared in them, and they have witnessed in their hearts the mystery that "He is closer to you than your life-vein." Whoever hath turned away from that sign of truth hath entered into remoteness and veiling. Those who are illumined by the dawning-lights of eternity have entered the depths of eternity, acquiring the pearls of perpetuity and the coral of faith and certitude in the manifestations of knowledge and ecstasy. Through the sign deposited within their hearts they have drawn near unto their Lord and witnessed the divine effulgence in being "closer to them than their life-vein," delivered from the fire of remoteness and attaining the light of nearness, receiving bounty from the Source of Glory, from the never-failing Bestower of Grace, witnessing in the sign of their hearts the divine manifestations and the holy concealed fragrances.  BH00377
