
distance me not from Thy nearness and presence   BH09374

"That station is nearness at the Threshold of God"   AB06286

But when he looks at God, he feels God is near to him  ABU3206

As for separation and union, parting and meeting - these are physical conditions. The spirit is sanctified above proximity and distance, connection and disconnection - these are attributes of bodies and requirements of elemental realities. The spirit remains ever in its center of transcendence and elevation, like the sun constantly fixed in its orbit. Its absence and presence relate to the purity of the receiving place and the refinement of the body facing it. As soon as the facing surface is polished, the lights of the sun appear in it, and as soon as the surface becomes dense, its lights disappear from it. Thus we know that nearness and distance refer to purity and refinement versus rust, turbidity and density.  AB01212

It is evident that the divine nearness is an unlimited nearness, be it in this world or the next one. This is a nearness which is sanctified from the comprehension of the minds. The more a man seeketh light from the Sun of Truth, the nearer he will draw. For instance, a clear body is near unto the sun, and a black stone is far from the sun. This nearness dependeth upon clearness, purity and perfection and that remoteness is due to density, dullness (or obscurity) and imperfection.  AB00448

and you may draw nearer day by day to the divine threshold  AB09463

guided this lost one to the shore of the ocean of Thy oneness   AB06358

turned with thy spirit to the shore of an impregnable nearness   BH10766

"This will surely be the nearest means of drawing nigh unto God."  BH05637

Sorrow not at remoteness, for God shall soon draw thee nigh unto Him.  BH11814

He commandeth His servants to do that which draweth them nigh unto Him  BH10927

O Thou for whom I sing and sigh, And grieve, so far removed from Thee   AB04431

Strive that each day you may attain a new bounty and reach a fresh gift.  AB09177

We hope through God's grace that He will soon grant nearness and reunion.   BH10221

they are athirst in their separation and with Thee is the Kawthar of life   BH07331

This distance is the nearness itself, this separation the reality of union.  AB11084

I love the children very much, because they are near to the Kingdom of God.  ABU0005

The Glance of Divine Providence has ever been turned towards that direction.  BH08615

How many who were near were kept back, and how many who were remote attained!  BH05691

the fire of separation...the light of reunion...their remoteness into nearness   BH11072

He desireth for no one save that which will draw him nigh unto the sacred court  BH03276

Therefore, one must seek true nearness and spiritual communion and fellowship.   AB07389

O dawning-place of "My servant draws nigh unto Me through voluntary devotions"!  AB06318

Then write down for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee in all conditions   BH05885

Thou hast attained unto divine favors and reached the sacred station of nearness   BH07819

O Thou Who art the most manifest of the manifest and the most hidden of the hidden!   BH04421

Deprive not Thy servants and withhold them not from the sacred precincts of nearness.  BH10992

Whose nearness is my desire, Whose presence is my dearest wish and highest aspiration  BH10973

it guideth all, through this detachment, unto the precincts of a mighty nearness.   BH06695

This spiritual brotherhood has no other purpose than nearness to the Threshold of God.  ABU2874

Whose nearness is my hope, Whose presence is my greatest longing and supreme aspiration!  BH06201

thy desire is to attain nearness to the divine Threshold. This is the greatest of desires  AB12589

Return thou to the abode of security and the seat of fellowship, near unto the mighty King   BH11197

we hope that you, in the extremity of remoteness, may attain the utmost degree of nearness   BH04009

We beseech God to transform the days of separation and remoteness into nearness and reunion   BH02315

And distance me not, O my Beloved, from the shore of the ocean of Thy nearness and presence.  BH01956

God is nearer to you than your own eyes. Your Lord is near those who have turned toward Him.   BH11546

We beseech God to draw thee nigh unto Him with a nearness after which no remoteness followeth.  BH01902

the hearts of the devoted ones have been consumed in their remoteness and separation from Thee.  BH03418

But for the people of God, to be veiled from Him is still more grievous than all these torments.  AB09024

"Praise be to God Who has made separation the key to union and remoteness the harbinger of nearness"  BH01826

The meaning is that thou shouldst know thou art near, not far; present and in attendance, not remote.  AB09881

The heart's desire of every person of understanding is to increase in nearness to the Divine Threshold  AB02700

Thou art witnessed in the Most Great Scene and mentioned in the Most Holy Court of the Lord of Eternity.   BH09200

Blessed art thou for having won the lights of the Countenance and drawn nigh unto God, the Lord of mankind.   BH09359

who hath turned toward Him with his heart, who hath stood in His court, and who hath circled round His throne   BH09492

Strive to connect thy heart to the Most Great Ocean. In this way, the divine bounty will ever encompass thee.   BH05609

"He desireth for thee naught save that which shall draw thee closer to thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving."  BH07482

The more you succeed in this servitude, the more divine nearness becomes possible and the closer you draw to God.  AB03936

But in one's nearness to and remoteness from the True One there hath ever been, and will continue to be, a wisdom.   BH04177

O my Lord! I am he who hath turned towards Thee and sought the Kaaba of Thy presence and the horizon of Thy reunion.  BH11795

They are the flock of Thy gazelles, wandering in the wilderness of separation and scattered in the valley of regret.  AB08451

being a stranger causes grief, for the friends it is mercy and bounty. Dispersion is unity and wandering is freedom   AB11697

We give thee glad tidings of My remembrance and recite unto thee My verses and draw thee nigh unto My mighty Kingdom   BH09529

The glory be upon thee and upon those who have soared in the atmosphere of My nearness and held fast to My strong cord.  BH10111

that they may arrive at the stream of nearness and attainment and alight upon the shore of the sea of attraction and beauty   BH02586

I hope therefore that at the Divine Threshold thou mayest secure favor, may become connected with the Kingdom by ideal ties   AB07368

If thou art outwardly far, then thou art near in spirit, and if thou art absent in body, thou art present is heart and spirit.   AB07142

Separate not thyself from His good-pleasure that thou mayest finally attain His reunion and reach the Threshold of Divine Unity.  AB12381

Then grant him that which will cause him to ascend unto the stations of nearness, "the distance of two bow-lengths or even less."  BH10906

The one who dwelt in the desert attained the outpourings of the All-Bountiful, while he who was in the mosque remained deprived.   BH08580

should all the peoples of the earth wish to remove them from the ocean of nearness, they would find themselves powerless to do so   BH10226

"We make mention of him who hath been named Haydar from the direction of My Most Luminous Horizon, that he may draw nigh unto God"   BH02922

lift them from the abyss of deprivation, and save them from the chasm of separation, and cause them to enter the Garden of Paradise   AB05994

"Is it from your remoteness from My presence after the Tongue of the All-Merciful hath testified that you are with Him at all times?"  BH09185

Send down, then, O my God, through Thy Most Great Name, upon Thy loved ones what will, under all conditions, draw them nearer unto Thee  BH05407

Blessed art thou for having turned to God, the Lord of all worlds, and recognized Him after Our heedless servants turned away from Him.   BH04551

We have heard your call and recognized your yearning for the horizon of revelation. Verily your Lord is the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing.   BH07512

that perchance the inmates of the realm of creation may detach themselves from the world of dust and ascend unto the retreats of nearness   BH10832

Though you have traveled and become distant from worldly sight, you are visible and near to the eye of heart and soul and vision and spirit.  AB07425

I beseech Thee, O my God, to assist those who have turned towards Thee and leave them not to themselves for less than the twinkling of an eye   BH06581

Suffer me not, I implore Thee, to be kept back from the ocean of Thy tender mercies, nor to be far removed from the shores of nearness to Thee.  BH08855

Suffer me, O my God, to draw nigh unto Thee, and to abide within the precincts of Thy court, for remoteness from Thee hath well-nigh consumed me.  BH09289

When we attained unto Thy nearness, we did sever ourselves from kith and kin alike, desiring only to know Thee, to praise Thee and to worship Thee.   AB07305

"Whoso draweth nigh unto Me a span, I draw nigh unto him a cubit." This drawing nigh is through the guidance of souls and the attraction of hearts.   AB11876

O assemblage of mystic knowers! Let your hearts be filled with joy, for the time of remoteness hath passed, and the spirit of certitude hath appeared   BH00759

so that thou mayest become near to the divine threshold and the court of the All-Merciful, and receive thy portion and share from the infinite bounty   AB11696

This is Thy servant who fashioned with his own hands what he fashioned for Thee, then was afflicted after that with separation and remoteness from Thee   BH09917

if thou seekest true union at the divine threshold, bring thy heart near, and if thou seekest spiritual nearness at the merciful court, gladden thy spirit  AB06373

This deprivation is the essence of attainment, this separation is true union, this remoteness is the core of nearness, and this parting is endless reunion.  AB02066

And He granteth unto the people of earth that which will bring them to the precincts of the Throne and draw them nigh unto a holy and praiseworthy station.   BH05366

By My life, you are with Me! How many near ones are strangers, and how many strangers are near! Blessed is he who is near and draws near!   BH02059

The glory of God rest upon those who have sought the Ultimate Goal and have turned towards the horizon which hath been illumined by His shining countenance.   BH08274

If you seek an impregnable fortress, seek the shadow of the Glorious Lord. If you desire a lofty palace, seek the seat of truth with the All-Powerful Sovereign.   AB06884

in an instant can fly from the lowest depths to the heaven of heavens, and in a breath can soar from the nearest horizon to the manifest and even nearer horizon   AB04795

Grant, moreover, that they whose hearts yearn over Thee may draw nigh unto the horizon of Thy grace, above which the Day-Star of Thy beauty sheddeth its radiance   BH10274

Grant her to hear Thy holy melodies that she may cast the veil from her head in her eagerness to meet Thee and speed through the domains of Thy nearness and union.  BH08904

Be not grieved by separation, for afterwards, by His command, that very separation was the essence of nearness, and parting by His leave was the reality of union.   BH01289

How many who are near are far and know it not, and how many who are far are in truth near! Draw nigh with your hearts - this is the Beloved and My luminous Beauty.   BH06743

We summon you at all times unto God, your Lord, the All-Merciful. By this We desire naught save to draw you nigh unto God, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.   BH04969

Good thoughts, good resolves, and good deeds bring men nearer to God, and that is heaven. In that state man is separated from God, and in his ignorance he suffers.   ABU3044

O Lord! Deprive not Thy servants from drawing nigh unto the seat of Thy Cause, and drive them not from the court which Thou hast made the dawning-place of Thy bounty.  BH01280

the divine Herald has ever called and will continue to call the servants from estrangement in transient, passing homelands to draw near to the glorious, eternal abodes  BH01905

Therefore, O my dear one, take a step and pass beyond place, for until you drink from the fountain of "returning," you will not stand upon the throne of "we belong to God."   BH04069

We beseech God that He may assist thee to rend asunder the veils that have hindered thee, with celestial power, that thou mayest attain to the station of nearness and holiness.   BH07586

Bring an end to this agonizing separation and set a limit to this devastating remoteness. What fruit hath this non-existent being, and what effect hath this obliterated existence?  AB06212

That soul is alone who is negligent of God, but if he knows God, although he may live in an interminable desert without water and vegetation, yet he is not alone. God is with him.   ABU2196

This loftiness dwells in the divine Court, and this height resides in the Most Great Throne of the All-Merciful. All existence and being lie at the depths of this summit and height   AB03909

Whoever attains to such a bounty will surely become near to the Supreme Threshold. The family of Haji 'Ammih Khanum, indeed their entire lineage, are near ones at the Divine Threshold  AB06976

and commanded them in the Book with that which would draw them near to a most praiseworthy sanctuary of holiness, and forbade them from all that would veil them from the beauty of God   BH09441

How many who were far We behold standing before Our face, and how many who were near were deprived of what they desired. Verily the Cause is in the grasp of God, the Lord of the mighty throne.   BH01431

The nearer you are to the light, the further you are from the darkness; the nearer you are to heaven, the further you are from the earth; the nearer you are to God, the further you are from the world.  ABU1324

O Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and hoping for that which lieth with Thee. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which hath been ordained by the Most Exalted Pen for Thy chosen servants  BH08566

Some have attained His presence, while others yearn for it from afar. The fire of separation hath consumed hearts, and the flame of remoteness from the Ancient Beauty hath melted both horizons and souls.  BH08223

Whoever turned attained their portion and share, and whoever remained heedless was deprived and distant. Blessed are they, men and women, who have turned, and woe to them, men and women, who are heedless.  BH07563

Hold fast unto the cord of My loving-kindness, then immerse thyself in the ocean of My Cause, and draw near with thy heart unto this Scene from whose horizon hath shone forth the Sun of thy Lord's beauty   BH06634

Everything that veils us from the one true God, everything that alienates us from the Beloved is blameworthy and reprehensible, but everything that draws us nearer to Him is acceptable and full of praise.  AB02378

If thou desirest to stroll in the kingdom, enter the paradise of My loving-kindness, and if thou desirest to find solace in anyone, find it in My Self, which hath power over all in the heavens and earths.   BH03986

Therefore, thank God for His having privileged thee to attain nearness to the Blessed Tree which is grown upon the highest Sinai and is set aglow with the fire of God's love, calling unto responsive listeners.   AB03530

Be not grieved by separation. A nearness hath been ordained for thee which no remoteness can affect. Verily, He is the Friend of him who hath detached himself in His love and turned to Him with a luminous countenance.   BH01335

"I come veilless before Thee, O Almighty, that I may behold Thy Countenance beyond my mortal frame, O Unique One." "The Birds of Eternity have returned to their nest, We have remained downtrodden and abject here on earth."   BH02406

Truth, in its essence, hath no nearness or remoteness. It is sanctified above such stations, and its relationship to all things is on the same level. This nearness and remoteness are made manifest through Its Manifestations.  BH00245

Know thou that between God and any soul there is no kinship. Whoso turneth unto God, belongeth unto Him, though he be from the people of the farthest West; and whoso turneth away is not of Him, though he be at His very side.   BH00563

Therefore, O my God, protect me from all fire and grant me paradise and whatsoever Thou hast created therein, for I know of no fire more intense than remoteness from Thee, and no paradise more exalted than nearness unto Thee.   BB00255

"by reason of my deprivation from beholding Thy Face and attaining unto Thy Divine Presence and of my remoteness from Thy most sublime Threshold" ... "O Lord, if Thou didst destine for me remoteness from that most holy garden"  AB02035

Thou shalt exchange the venom of separation for the honey of reunion, heal cruelty's blows with the balm of faith, hasten from the desert of remoteness unto the shore of nearness, and be set free from this dustbin of deprivation.  AB08860

Yet we hope that a breeze of grace may waft over you and draw you from the west of remoteness to the east of nearness, that you may find repose in the eternal holy Ridvan in the company of the holy manifestations of divine fellowship.  BH11760

He seeks, through the wonders of Your grace, Your nearness and meeting, to stand at Your gate, attain Your presence...Has the Pen of destiny decreed for me to attain Your presence, or has Your binding decree prevented me from turning to You  BH02227

It is as though Thou hast forgotten him and left him in the wastelands of Thy separation and estrangement, and delivered him before the face of Thine enemies that they might do with him as they please and inflict upon him whatsoever they desire.  BH03678

The intention of kinship is not outward nearness, rather the intention is spiritual nearness unto Him - may my spirit and all within the kingdom of command and creation be a sacrifice for Him - in the realm of infinity, abstraction and beginning.  BB00174

In the contingent world, even unto the very acme of the Placeless, loftiness, advancement and exaltation are impossible save on the wings of servitude; while nearness to the Holy Presence is unattainable unless the pinions of thraldom be unfurled.   AB03763

Then God made the point of proximity the focal point for drawing near in cycles, bringing it into existence and extending it as He had originated it when it was pure nothingness. And God made the point of remoteness the point of turning away in cycles  BB00325

Though thou art apparently far and physically remote from this gathering, thou art mentioned in this assembly and art present in this meeting. In truth, the bounty of God hath brought the distant near, made strangers intimate, rendered companions of the friends  AB10844

Strive thou that the heedlessness and forgetfulness of the peoples of the worlds may not prevent thee from the direction of the All-Merciful, and that thou mayest ever dwell, in spirit and fragrance, beneath the shade of the divine Lote-Tree, in rest and in peace.  BH11034

Make your way to the sanctified Concourse and become an intimate companion of the denizens of the Abha Kingdom... Therefore for all of us it is far better to spread our wings and fly from this perilous depth, entering a world that is sanctified from these dangers   AB07523

So establish thyself in that station and be assured that this rank, despite its perfect nearness is remote, and despite its perfect remoteness is near. God hath made it nearer to everything than anything else - neither darknesses can conceal it nor veils can hide it.  BB00346

This is Thy servant who hath turned his face toward the sanctuary of Thy oneness, who hath taken shelter beneath the tabernacle of Thy divine unity, who hath sought refuge in the cave of Thy holy mercy, who hath fled unto Thy presence and sought protection at Thy threshold  BH07120

The heart findeth no rest save through the Day-Star of assurance from the direction of Thy grace, nor doth the eye become tranquil except by beholding the horizon of Thy manifestation, nor doth the soul find repose save through the appearances of Thy generosity and bounty.   BH11389

Do not imagine that you are distant and separated for a moment. No, by God! You are constantly before my sight and present, and our meeting is continuous. Sadi of Shiraz says: What veil can exist between lover and beloved? Neither Alexander's Wall can be an obstacle nor a barrier.  AB09299

So long as thou remainest steadfast in My love, know of a certainty that thou art present before the Throne, for not a single atom between the heavens and earth is visible except that the realities of all things are present before the Throne of the All-Merciful every morn and eve.   BH01281

May ye reach such a condition and attain such a station that though ye dwell upon the earth ye are at all times intimately connected to the Concourse on High. Though your bodies live and move down here upon the dust let your spirits soar into the realms of Abha and behold its lights.   AB02746

Though thou art far from the seat of the Throne, yet thou art near. Nearness and remoteness in one sense are considered, and in another sense are not considered. However, spiritual nearness hath ever been and will continue to be beloved in the presence of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.  BH08744

These material degrees of separation and union, remoteness and nearness, have absolutely no effect. Rather, when true spiritual union is achieved, its influence flows like the spirit through veins and arteries, the veil is completely removed, and the beauty of union becomes visible and manifest.  AB05211

If thou seekest eternal rest take shelter beneath the protection of God's Beauty and if thou seekest everlasting gifts enter beneath the shade of His loving providence and bounty. This protection and providence, this shade of bounty is none other than attraction to the holy fragrances of His divine Beauty.  AB08923

My joy is in Thy nearness and meeting Thee, my sustenance is Thy melodies, my spirit Thy verses, my companion Thy remembrances, and my origin Thy words. Decree for me what Thou willest through Thy command, but ordain for me Thy nearness. Burn me with the fire of Thy dominion, then prescribe for me to meet Thee.  BH00838

When man turns to God, He says "Whosoever draws nigh unto Me by a span, I will draw nigh unto him by a cubit." This means that any servant who comes closer to Me by one span, I will come closer to him by one cubit. The purpose is that the slightest turning of man toward God becomes the cause of infinite nearness.  AB05800

O Lord! I am the one who has fled from myself unto Thee and desired from the heaven of Thy bounty what befits Thy grace and Thy bestowal. Verily Thou art He Whom the affairs of creation cannot frustrate, so send down upon Thy servant from the heaven of Thy grace that which will draw him near unto Thee in all conditions.  BH09068

Today all must speak for the sake of God and gaze toward God. Let them not deprive their eyes from the supreme horizon, nor prevent their ears from hearkening to the words of the Lord of Names, nor withhold their hearts from turning to Him, nor veil their minds from contemplating His mighty signs and manifest conditions.   BH02510

He is the Point of nearness and remoteness - His remoteness is His nearness and His nearness His remoteness... And the Creator is manifest, and if He becomes distant, meaning if one does not attain unto that Reality, in His remoteness there is nearness which is the very essence of separation, for His manifestation is within it.  BH00377

As for what was mentioned in the words of the ancients that "the Friend is nearer to me than myself" - this is a remote saying and strange utterance. How can the created be nearer to the Creator than the Creator's own Self? God forbid! Unless we say that Friend is the Reality of the Essence in the unseen of unseens within the witness of witnesses, where no mention is made of creation and no existence is referred to therein. However, His nearness and remoteness becomes apparent in one's recognition and shines forth in one's knowledge. Should ye attain unto the True One and be in the state of communion, it is grace itself that followeth thereafter, for the Creator standeth revealed. Yet should ye remain distant—that is, fail to reach unto that Reality—in that very remoteness lieth nearness, which is the essence of grace itself, inasmuch as the signs of His manifestation are within you. And this is the verity: that communion is far from you, for ye cannot achieve the knowledge of Him, yet He is near unto your hearts, for He placeth the tokens of His own Reality therein, that thereby ye may attain unto nearness and Truth.  BH00377


Nearness is verily of the soul, not of the body; and the help that is sought, and the help that cometh, is not material but of the spirit; nevertheless it is my hope that thou wilt attain to nearness in every sense. The bounties of God will verily encompass a sanctified soul even as the sun's light doth the moon and stars: be thou assured of this.  AB01404

I beseech God that at every moment thou mayest be the intimate companion of that Kind Friend, and through fellowship with God become independent of association with His creatures. In all conditions, the heart that findeth intimacy with the eternal Beauty will not be disturbed by any terror, nor become sorrowful and disappointed from any estrangement.  AB07708

For some time there was no news of you in the visible world. Some said you had taken residence in the monastery, while others pointed to the mosque saying you had secluded yourself there. I said this bewildered, passionate one finds rest nowhere but in the divine sanctuary, and this wanderer of separation takes seclusion nowhere but in the Lord's Ka'bah.  BH05705

Then, through Thy grace, quench the fire of separation and remoteness by which the hearts of the ardent lovers have melted and the tears of them that are attracted have flowed, through the waters of Thy remembrance and utterance. O Lord! Transform their separation into the light of reunion with Thee, and their remoteness into the radiance of nearness to Thee.  BH10756

Besides this nearness and remoteness mentioned, there is a nearness with God that hath no likeness, opposite, or equal in the realm of limitations and physical places. Strive thou that through the favors of the King of Oneness thou mayest enter into that station, that thou mayest be wholly purified and sanctified from the tree of remoteness with all its fruits and leaves. This is a nearness that will never be transformed into remoteness and will endure through the eternity of God.   BH00958

However, it is clear and evident that true reunion is spiritual nearness attainable only by walking in the path of His good pleasure. Therefore, if a person is physically one hundred thousand miles away but blessed with God's good pleasure that one is in truth among those who enjoy nearness to Him. Otherwise, that which looks outwardly near is in fact distant. Therefore, it is proven that that blessed Leaf is at all times present in the Court of Holiness and nourished with the blessing of His proximity and reunion.   AB03730

In the estimation of the loved ones of God, abasement is exaltation itself, and affliction leadeth to faithfulness. Earthly glory and comfort are but a mirage of illusion, while in the realm of the spirit heavenly gifts are everlasting and imperishable. The lights in the nether world may be bright, but they are put out at the break of dawn, whereas the stars that shine in the heaven of the love of God will sparkle continually throughout ages and centuries. Such is everlasting glory, such is infinite bounty, such is life eternal, and such is boundless grace.  AB01978

As to approaching the Most Holy Court in these days, this is outwardly not permitted. We have revealed in one of the Tablets: "How many are near whom We do not confirm in their nearness, and how many are remote and, by the Self of the Beloved, are yet nigh!" And in another Tablet: "How many who are near are yet strangers, and how many who are distant are yet near! Blessed is he who is near and drew near!" And in yet another Tablet: "How many a beloved one became but a bubble, and how many a companion We found to be a flatterer, and how many who were distant are near, and how many who were near We testify are in a station remote."   BH00965
