The gardeners of the world of humanity are the Prophets of God.  AB00167


When we look upon the kingdoms of creation below man, we find three forms or planes of existence which await education and development. For instance, the function of a gardener is to till the soil of the mineral kingdom and plant a tree which under his training and cultivation will attain perfection of growth.  ABU0900

Consider how this black soil is decorated with multi-colored flowers through the Bestowals of the Sun, the downpour of the rain and the blowing of the winds! Although the earth was dark, yet through the benedictions of the four elements it was be gemmed with such fragrant roses! And produced such luscious fruits!  ABU1859

Apart from the human world observe the rest of creation, how each and every created things is in need of training by an educator. Without education they will not attain perfection. For instance, this flower cannot by itself reach this perfection and attain this charm, color and loveliness.  Thus, there are two great blessings in the world of existence: one is innate capacity which is bestowed by the Creator; and the other, acquired perfections which depend upon training by a teacher and educator.  ABU2331

He has capacity but needs a teacher to explain divine matters and open his eyes and ears as they should be opened.  AB05675

Look at the civilized countries... That the world of nature is imperfect and needs education is to the wise beyond question.  ABU0010

It remains for something to come from outside to make them organize and advance.  ABU2953

People are observed to be as infants - they need an educator and one who will remind them.  BH03300

This world is like unto an orchard, there must needs be a gardener. The world is a great school; we must have teachers.   ABU1631

This finally bring us to the conclusion, that the world of humanity, including all the lower kingdoms, is in need of education.  ABU0605

for without a teacher humanity cannot become learned. How did they know that truthfulness is good? Through education and training  ABU2246

If mankind come under the training of these real teachers and be directed to true understanding and knowledge, all will be manifested and made known.  ABU0927

"Mankind needs a universal motive power to quicken it. The inspired messenger who is directly assisted by the power of God brings about universal results."   ABU2958

This is why an educator is necessary - without an educator, a human being does not become truly human. And the Prophets are the first educators of the world.  ABU1031

Therefore man needs a teacher; for, in order that he may acquire this perfection, some one must aid him in bringing it forth. The gaining of Wisdom requires a teacher.   ABU1221

Therefore, for the manifestation of these luminous divine realities within this delicate godly lamp, a mover and educator is necessary, and for this candle an igniter is required.  AB06941

And know that God thy Lord created no people but He raised up among them one of their own selves to teach them the Book and wisdom and purify them and guide them to a straight path.   BB00399

Thus, as it is proven and confirmed by invincible argument that all in existence are in need of instruction, it is therefore proven that the creature is not perfect-it has need of an educator.   ABU0272

"How surprising indeed is the assertion made by some people that existence needs no trainer! Were it not for the direct result of care and training, this place would have ever remained a heap of dirt and refuse."  ABU0279

O God! Verily, the world is in need of reformation. Bestow upon it a new existence. Give it newness of thoughts, and reveal unto it heavenly sciences. Breathe into it a fresh spirit, and grant unto it a holier and higher purpose.  ABU0079

Everything and every created being must have a guardian or cultivator to assist in making the change from one condition to the other. The flower requires the gardener. To change water into wine there must be someone to assist in the matter.  ABU0320

The purpose and object of schools, colleges and universities is to educate man and thereby rescue and redeem him from the exigencies and defects of nature and to awaken within him the capability of controlling and appropriating nature's bounties.   ABU0008

Thus it is clear and evident that They are the first educators, the universal educators, the general educators, the educators of the human world, and whoever engages in the education of children following Their teachings has followed the Prophets and saints of God.  ABU1077

Thus there is nothing to prevent man from blameworthy behavior except education, and education is of two kinds: One kind is physical education which prevents man from obvious crime, and the other kind is divine education which prevents both obvious and hidden crime and transgression  ABU1692

Therefore, the True Educator and the Divine Teacher is needed and absolutely essential, so that those hidden lights and divine mysteries may come forth from the invisible realm and be revealed in the visible plane. Otherwise, they will be deprived of growing and defective like unto seeds concealed beneath the earth.  AB04119

Unless we dig and plant a piece of ground, and have a gardener to care for the plants, we can have no garden; we shall have no beautiful flowers or plants, but there will be wild forest instead. So, also, with children, unless they have some one to rear them and care for them and cultivate their minds, they would become like wild animals.   ABU1628

It is evident, therefore, that man is in need of divine education and inspiration, that the spirit and bounties of God are essential to his development. That is to say, the teachings of Christ and the Prophets are necessary for his education and guidance. Why? Because They are the divine Gardeners Who till the earth of human hearts and minds.  ABU0019

Given this need for education, how can independence be conceived? Is it possible for any individual to acquire by himself, without a teacher, all human perfections? Thus independence is not possible. Yes, even while learning and receiving from others, man has his own feelings and perceptions and can make new discoveries, but he cannot dispense with teacher and educator.  AB00657

If every man knew what was best for his health, if every man could teach himself, if every soldier knew how to fight by himself, if every passenger could sail the ship, what need would there be for the doctor, for the teacher, for the general or for the captain? As he has not this wisdom he must first ascertain their truth and then follow their directions. Until he does this he cannot advance.   ABU0559

When we consider existence, we observe that the mineral, the vegetable, the animal and the human realms, each and all, are in need of an educator. If the land is deprived of a cultivator, it becomes a thicket of thriving weeds, but if a farmer is found to cultivate it, the resulting harvest provides sustenance for living things. It is therefore evident that the land is in need of the farmer's cultivation.  AB00081

Know thou that the world of being standeth in need of an educator. There are two kinds of educators, material and spiritual. If we allow a piece of land to remain in its natural state it will become a jungle covered with wild vegetation, but if we place it under the care of a benevolent gardener it will become a wonderful orchard and the tangled underbrush will change into a pleasant garden. Thus it is evident that in the world of nature training is indispensable.  AB00287

If there were no defects, there would be no need of training, culture and education, but inasmuch as we find that children need training and schooling, it is a conclusive proof that the world of nature must be developed. Many things show this clearly. One of the basic evidences is the survival of the fittest in the animal kingdom, their ignorance, sensuality and unbridled instincts and passions. Therefore, in the natural world there is need of an Educator and Teacher for mankind.  ABU0280

As to the question of souls' independence in receiving from the Sun of Reality, it is clear that all humanity needs education. Given this need for education, how can independence be conceived? Is it possible for any individual to acquire by himself, without a teacher, all human perfections? Thus independence is not possible. Yes, even while learning and receiving from others, man has his own feelings and perceptions and can make new discoveries, but he cannot dispense with teacher and educator. AB00657


Just at this time this light speaks with thine eye; the sun converses with the earth. In addresses it: 'I am most kind toward thee. I am pouring my rays upon thee. I am training thee. I am causing in thee the growth of flowers and hyacinths.' In turn the earth says to the sun: 'I am in need of thy favors. Were it not for thy beneficent rays my surface would not have been adorned with the roses and carnations. Pour then thy bestowals uninterruptedly upon me.' Consequently there is a continual correspondence without the medium of speech.  ABU2268
