Consider the animals; - those which are tame associate with each other agreeably; they live in companies. The sheep are loving to each other, hence they live in company as a flock. Tame birds are to be found in flocks, but birds of prey and ferocious animals live separately  ABU0448

The foundation of life and existence is cooperation and mutual aid, whereas the cause of annihilation and deterioration is the cessation of aid and assistance. The higher the realm of existence, the stronger and more vital this weighty matter of cooperation and assistance doth become.  AB00362

It is evident to the wise, people of thought, and those possessed of knowledge that dispersion in the human world - that is, disunity - is the cause of their abasement, the source of their degradation, the reason for their disorder, and the root of their ignorance. However, if they form a united society, it becomes the cause of their progress and their civilization. This being evident, they say that the human world requires a unifying force to bring individuals together and achieve this progress. ABU0987

When you observe carefully you shall see that the economic prosperity of a community or a nation is maintained by reciprocity and co-operation. In the whole world you do not find one man, no matter how varied in his accomplishments who is sufficient unto himself. All that he can do is to contribute one thousandth share to the well-being of the nation. He studies for ten or 20 yrs and then he is able to co-operate with other thousands of his fellowmen to make them happier. He supplies them with part of their needs and as a reciprocal action, they supply him with all his needs.  ABU0866

God created human beings to live collectively, to form a social body, to arise in service to one another. Other animals can live in the wilderness, and beasts can dwell in the forests, but humans must live collectively, and social existence is impossible except through cooperation and mutual aid, especially genuine cooperation and mutual assistance that comes from heart and soul. Even compulsory cooperation is good - for example, one who makes this chair is compelled to do so for his livelihood, but in any case it is assistance to the social body. He who farms, he who plants this tree - these too assist the world of humanity, but that cooperation and mutual aid which is for God and in God is divine, it is voluntary, that is good. The entire life of creation depends on cooperation and mutual assistance. If there were no cooperation and mutual aid among the realities of things, life would be impossible.   ABU0885

People must live for one another...The believers should be together as much as possible.  AB11082

Indeed, gathering together and fellowship and companionship and association are among the requirements of humanity. The social body of humanity must gather together at certain times and engage in conversation and discussion and fellowship  AB02048

People must live for one another and not live in seclusion as the monks and nuns. People should not live solitary lives. Light is of no value in an empty room. A tree is of no service to anyone on the summit of a mountain, but should be in a place where it can give shade and where its fruits may be gathered.   ABU1794


Of like kind are the relationships that exist among all created things. Hence it was stated that co-operation and reciprocity are essential properties which are inherent in the unified system of the world of existence, and without which the entire creation would be reduced to nothingness.  AB00446

Some of the creatures of existence can live solitary and alone. A tree, for instance, may live without the assistance and cooperation of other trees. Some animals are isolated and lead a separate existence away from their kind. But this is impossible for man. In his life and being cooperation and association are essential. Through association and meeting we find happiness and development, individual and collective. For instance, when there is intercourse and cooperation between two villages, the advancement of each will be assured. Likewise, if intercommunication is established between two cities, both will benefit and progress. And if a reciprocal basis of agreement be reached between two countries, their individual and mutual interests will find great development.   ABU0404
