
If it is possible that every newspaper be completely dissociated from the Cause, so people know we have absolutely no connection with newspapers and their reports have no connection with our thoughts, that would be very good. Things have reached a point where I don't even want to hear the word "newspaper" because of all the difficulties I've encountered, even though I have absolutely no connection with these matters. The friends in India wanted to establish a newspaper - I forbade it. In the Caucasus they wanted to establish one - I forbade it. But in Tehran I am perplexed, for if I forbid it they may not accept it, otherwise I would definitely forbid it by decree. Our duty is to promote the manifest light - that is, we should pursue whatever leads to human perfections and virtues and the comfort and tranquility of the world of existence, not thoughts and mentions that bear no fruit whatsoever in the East, especially since we have no connection to them. We have a different path. ABU1598

O newspapers of the cities and lands! Have ye heard the moaning of the oppressed and their lamentations, or have these remained concealed from you? We hope that ye will investigate and proclaim that which hath occurred, that perchance your wise counsels and admonitions may awaken the heedless servants and adorn them with the ornament of justice.  BH00279


The Editors must exert themselves in the spiritualization of the moral aspect of the human life. They must be the heralds of the oneness of the world and the teachers of true brotherhood. They must incite and encourage the people in the exercise of love, tolerance, chastity and good-fellowship and teach them to shun hatred and animosity.   ABU1275


Regarding the newspapers, pay them no attention whatsoever.  AB03127

The newspapers raise a cry each day and write detailed articles.   AB06876

You have written excellent articles in the papers in regard to the Cause.  ABU2453

Observe in the Hablu'l-Matin newspaper that all these rumors are from the Yahyais.   AB11995

the friends should assist this library and Star of the West magazine to the extent possible.   AB00411

Enclosed you will find some sayings of Baha'u'llah: insert them in The Christian Commonwealth.  AB09755

The article that was published in the St. Petersburg newspaper was in the utmost eloquence and excellence   AB06742

In those days, the Tehran Gazette, the first Iranian newspaper, was brought to the Consulate once every month.  ABU0455

Praise be to God that in the publication and circulation of the Star of the West thou art displaying the utmost effort.   AB00626

The Egyptian newspapers are creating quite a stir, including the Egyptian newspaper Al-Balagh which you will surely read.  AB09284

The Blessed Beauty described newspapers as mirrors of truth. God willing, may your magazine ever reflect the Sun of Truth.   AB00166

certain publications are being produced in Iran at the instigation of the Yahyais, and some are from the Yahyais themselves  AB00836

Have the newspaper article translated and printed together with a copy of the report, and disseminate them in other directions.  AB11795

Now the Star of the West should be written in both English and Persian. Miss Gertrude Buikema truly serves the Star of the West.   AB02518

Strive to write beneficial articles that may become the cause of the spirit and fragrance for the friends in all parts of the world.  AB08072


His honor Mirza Abdul-Hussein has truly rendered a great service to Chihrihnama. This unique journal will gain great importance now and in the future.   AB01524

Two Americans who own a newspaper in America ... so that they may correspond with their newspaper from there and write about whatever they see and hear   AB06412

Today almost all the papers of the world are praising the Cause. The only papers which are scorning the Cause are those of our own country, that is Persia.  ABU0511

your journal will surpass all the journals of the world...Then you will observe that this journal has become a brilliant star and the cause of enlightenment of human hearts   AB06722

Today the Press of the world belonging to various nations have taken the opportunity to publish the addresses of the believers of God and are printing them in their magazines.   AB07471

If Mrs. Hannen can undertake to spread broadcast the diary letters which are forwarded to you from the East as regards the travel or sojourn of Abdul Baha it is very acceptable.  AB02528

The letter which the editor of the Christian Commonwealth wrote to you was noted. It would be better if you were to be the correspondent of this journal and distribute its issues.  AB08090

This newspaper in the West was published by someone from abroad and contains a detailed section about this Cause... therefore it was sent so that you may publish and distribute it.   AB12004

To the respected editor of the unique newspaper Chihrihnama, may God strengthen him with hosts from on high... and in these days Chihrihnama has brightened faces in some provinces.   AB02154

Convey my utmost love and kindness to Miss Jean Masson, as she has exerted the utmost effort in writing newspaper articles, serving the Kingdom of God and promoting the divine teachings.   AB01694

Concerning the STAR OF THE WEST, the organ must be so promulgated in America and Persia that at least its necessary expenses may be provided. Upon this point a letter shall be written to Persia.  AB02219

Strive in your efforts, in your management, to become orderly, for this newspaper is now a link between the East and the West. Have no word in that publication which can be of displeasure to anyone.   ABU2195

At present thou hast started a journal. It is my hope that this journal will shine as the Star of the East. In the journal write thus: When the horizon of the East was covered with immense darkness...  AB00481

These newspapers will, if written impartially, inform the people, yet we have written articles in the newspapers of the Kingdom. These are articles of perpetual influence, and they will never be forgotten.  ABU3740

Show respect to the editor of the Iran newspaper as his purpose is the wellbeing of humanity. And if he wishes to publish selections from the Treatise on Civilization in his newspaper, there is no objection.  AB11691

Afterwards he returned to Egypt and published the questions and answers in his newspaper to a certain extent, but some Iranians prevented him from publishing several passages, which he therefore did not include in the article.  AB08225

The newspaper should first be a means of creating harmony between people. This is the greatest duty of newspaper publishers - to remove misunderstandings between religions, races and nations, and to promote the unity of humankind.  ABU1072

If, as Browne suggests, its publication in Chihrinama would yield some benefit to you, I am not willing to prevent the Chihrinama office from gaining that benefit, since repeated publication in newspapers does not result in any new promotion.  AB12194

A newspaper must in the first instance be the means of creating harmony among the people. This is the prime duty of the proprietors of newspapers, to eradicate misunderstandings between religions and races and nationalities and promote the oneness of mankind.  ABU3302

Today all the world's newspapers are occupied with mention of this Cause - there is no newspaper that has not mentioned and does not mention this Cause... The copy of the article from the Petersburg newspaper was noted. Hereafter you will read many such newspapers.   AB01240

As for what you found favorable regarding the publication of a monthly magazine in Arabic and Persian to be distributed in various lands - wisdom does not require this at present unless it be purely scientific and literary, not containing a word of political articles or news.  AB01995

Every story and narrative will, for a time, get circulated among mankind, but before the lapse of some days, it passes into oblivion. The Heavenly Realities and the Celestial Graces, however, when inserted in papers, will never be forgotten and shall permanently exist and be preserved.  AB12498

The publication of the Star of the West is conducive to the happiness and beatitude of the friends; for it is a clear mirror in which the pictures of the events and happenings in the Cause and the news of the progress of the Kingdom throughout the world are reflected and can be observed.  AB06541

Regarding the Chihrihnama newspaper, you know that previously it was written about in Iran and caused a strange excitement until copies reached two or three qirans. I don't know what caused the delay after that as I was in America. Now too I hope this newspaper gains widespread circulation.   AB00572

The address delivered in Stanford University and published completely in your paper was observed today-and on account of it I became both pleased and grateful... should you think it best you may print it fully without abbreviation in the columns of your paper that others of the Jews may read it.  AB03424

Those which strive to speak only that which is truth, which hold the mirror up to truth, are like the sun: they light the world everywhere with truth and their work is imperishable. Those who play for their own little selfish ends give no true light to the world and perish of their own futility.   ABU3165

I hope that day by day your dedication will increase and you will give importance to this periodical, for it shall gradually progress and reach the desired level. There are many detailed letters of Abdul-Baha which have been issued containing counsels and education - request these and publish them.  AB08847

Ye have taken upon yourselves the task of publishing the Baha'i magazine, Sun of Truth. Ye have indeed chosen an excellent title for it. I beseech God to grant that this title may prove true to its object, that the light of truth may radiate from it with such intensity as to illumine the whole country.  AB12398

The newspaper was perused. Indeed, the text was fluid and elegant, and in the utmost clarity and eloquence. From its contents it was evident that the purpose and desire of both the esteemed editor and writer were pure intention, goodwill toward the general populace, and sincerity toward the government.  AB10596

Likewise, great importance must be given to the development of the STAR OF THE WEST. The circle of its discussion must be widened; in its columns must be published the essential problems pertaining to the Bahai life in all its phases. Its contents must be so universal that even the strangers may subscribe to it.  ABU0213

Endeavor thou that this Article may appear in the London Times. If this is impossible, i.e., its publication in the columns of the Times, then publish it by all means in other important periodicals or journals. This question along with this article is very important. Display ye the utmost effort in its publication.  AB09345

It is hoped that it may become a center through which great and general services may be rendered to the world of humanity. Praise be to God, that although in the past few years many newspapers stopped their publication, this newspaper, which is a well-wisher, remained firm and its issue was not brought to a close.   AB03887

As for these recent reports, their falsehood is obvious and you understand this well. The first proof is that it states "I have sent horrific, vile telegrams from this country to Tehran." The telegraph offices of Egypt, Alexandria and Port Said still exist - if there is any trace of such telegrams then all is correct.  AB00318

The Editors of the Magazines and Newspapers must be the spreaders of the realities of facts; for it is certain, the truth of every problem will become manifest and apparent in the future. The proprietors of the periodicals who conform their statements with the reality will attain to Everlasting Glory in the coming ages.  AB07832

The Star of the West magazine has gained importance - you must certainly promote it among the friends. Its cost is small. Obtain and send it to America as this will lead to its promotion. According to what has been heard, so far only fifty tumans have been sent to America for the Star of the West newspaper. This amount is very small.   AB05876

Regarding the Bahai Library and the magazine Reality, truly I say they have great expenses. No matter how much Mr. Deuth may show self-sacrifice he cannot meet all the expenses. Therefore the believers of God from amongst the rich, must show magnanimity regarding this matter; so that this library and this magazine may continue forever.  AB04611

Regarding the proposition which thou hast suggested that one of the maid-servants of the Merciful reside in the Land of Desire and be the medium for the regulation of correspondence, now it is not according to wisdom. Therefore now edit thou a magazine in Persian and English, then forward it here to be revised and sent back for publication.  AB02062

The Editor of a newspaper or a Magazine must ever take the side of Truth. Every fact before its publication must be thoroughly investigated. An editor is the moulder of public opinions, the educator of the masses of mankind. Truth is his sharpest weapon. Forceful, strong statements his impregnable fort, and plain, direct language his shield.   ABU2141

Newspaper publishers are in truth guides of nations and founders of the basis of triumph and prosperity of peoples - if they investigate truth and write accordingly. Otherwise it becomes the cause of disgrace and infamy unto all eternity, for it does not fade away, is not forgotten, and gains greater notoriety with the passing of centuries and ages.  AB04306

Likewise in sending certain papers containing political matters to this land, there are serious difficulties if they should be discovered. Even if they be small pamphlets or insignificant papers, they cause great trouble and will be productive of general harm. Therefore, do not write about political affairs in your letters and do not send any papers   AB00354

After a severe battle her army was defeated but the Military Censor sent word to Persia that the royal Army has achieved a great victory and the inhabitants of every city must celebrate the occasion by a National festival, illumination and pyrotechnics. In those days there were no cables to reveal the truth and the inhabitants prepared a grand Jubilee.   ABU1338

newspapers are mirrors of the resplendent truth, which discovereth the true facts, spreadeth forth pursuits of great men, and guideth the people to the realities of all affairs, provided that its source is sincere, its origin just. The slander of the slanderer will affect it not, and relateth the news, which none hath discovered, with sincerity and justice.   AB03834

According to what they have written from Baku, Count Tolstoy has written a letter to the office of the journal called "Muslim" in Paris, and they have sent its translation. You should inquire there at the office of the journal called "Muslim" - if that letter has not been published in the journal, do whatever is necessary to have that letter published in that journal.  AB08411

Concerning the Star of the West. Make ye an exceeding effort that such materials (articles, news, etc.) and Tablets may be published in its columns that it may become the means of the attraction of the hearts of the seekers, conducive to the happiness of the hearts of the friends and its contents may correspond with the facts, (reality). Consequently the utmost research and investigation is necessary.  AB01474

A new letter has been written to the editors of the Star of the West - translate and convey it to them. The size of the newspaper will, God willing, be as you had written. Gradually publish in the Star of the West many of Abdu'l-Baha's detailed general letters which contain absolutely no mention of political matters but are purely counsels and education, and henceforth you will publish whatever detailed letters arrive as well.  AB10463


The mass of humanity must be informed of the practical, moral, philosophical and spiritual principles of the Baha'i Revelation, and the believers must avail themselves of the unlimited possibilities offered to them to spread the correct knowledge of the Cause of God through the instrumentality of the Press. In Magazine and Newspaper articles, dogmatic assertions must be avoided, and only the broad, universal principles be discussed and amplified.   ABU2796

The magazine of the STAR OF THE WEST, notwithstanding great difficulties during the days of the war, has continued until these days of quietness and tranquillity which have come. Although it had been cut off entirely from Persia, yet it managed to exist itself. Therefore financial hardships obtained. But now that war has ended in peace, there must be given regularity to the STAR OF THE WEST, so that it may circulate throughout the East and the West.   AB05866

Even the aforementioned newspaper only publishes one issue after long intervals, and you have surely noted its contents. And as for the newspaper printed in Isfahan, you have surely paid attention to its poetry and meanings. Regarding subscription to Chihranama - it is repeatedly emphasized that in the beginning many subscribers were obtained, even in Tehran each copy sold for several qirans, then it's not known what happened that subscribers fell to fifty.  AB12151

The Editors of the Newspapers are the guardians of the rights of man. They are the champions of the poor and the protectors of the Wronged ones. They are the crusaders after righteousness and moral purity. They are the advanced guards of the renaissance of education and arts and the pioneers of the higher development and spiritual unfoldment. They are the first and most effective instruments for establishing good relation and real understanding between the most remote nations of the world.   ABU1275

Regarding the newspapers, since this servant's arrival in Egypt there has been an uproar - the enemies have arisen to publish false statements, and a group of newspaper writers in this country wanted to write a detailed refutation of those newspapers, but 'Abdu'l-Baha prevented them... Praise be to God, in Tokyo, Japan a newspaper has been established - that is, through Jinab-i-Barakat'u'llah Hindi this newspaper was arranged there and writes in English, since the English language is very desirable in those parts.   AB11640

Thou art the first Baha'i journal established in the American continent. Although at present thy readers are few and thy volume small and thy voice weak, yet shouldst thou stand unshakable and become the object of the attention of the friends and the center of the generosity of the firm ones in the Covenant, in future thy readers shall embrace throngs upon throngs like waves of the sea, thy volume shall increase, thy arena shall become vast, thy voice and fame shall be raised and become world-wide and at last thou shalt become the first paper of the world.  AB08271

They have established a magazine which promotes the Baha'i ideals, which declares the oneness of mankind, which sets forth the inner meanings and the realities of things, which expounds the mysteries of God and the words of which glitter like unto pearls. This figure is an oriental figure by which eloquent and significant words are compared to pearls. But these pearls are of two kinds, one is the versified language and that is called poetry and the other is the ordinary language called prose. Now I pray to God that ye may both in prose as well as poetry set forth glittering gems and may be so confirmed that all your publications may be favorable to every sound intellect and suitable to all praiseworthy characters, and that no one will be able to criticize them or make the slightest objections.  AB04993

Regarding what was written about the published treatises in London, it hath been evidently proven that some newspapers speak without investigation and seek new stories to print whatever is written. Some persons who intended to write new books requested that details about these matters be written so they might publish them. No word was given to them. Likewise, some newspaper owners made the same request, but it was not granted. Verily, He speaketh the truth and guideth to the Way, and He is the Powerful, the Mighty, the Beautiful.  BH00321

In this century the newspapers have gained prominence, and their proprietors consider them the cause of the world's prosperity, the education of nations, and the progress, refinement, knowledge and awareness of the servants. In truth, they are means of gathering and dispersing. "The Day when the earth shall tell its tidings" is witnessed and heard, and "The whole earth shall be His handful on the Day of Resurrection" is manifest and evident. The earth hath wondrous and sublime secrets within, and speaketh of both new and ancient tidings, while outwardly too the bird of news flieth in all directions. Yet it is regrettable that some newspapers publish fabricated reports without investigation. Whatever anyone may say, they say, and whatever anyone may write, they write. Thus do the dawning-places of vain imaginings spread their fancies through newspapers. O Majid! Reflect upon "the Day when the heaven shall bring a manifest smoke." In these days falsehood hath great currency. The dust of vain imaginings hath prevented the people from the Lord of Days. We beseech God to raise up souls who will speak the truth and not allow the barriers and obstacles to deprive the servants from the Day of Return. Blessed is he who hath heard My call, risen to serve Me and serve My loved ones, and spoken My beautiful praise. Praise be to God, the One, the Single, the Mighty, the Beautiful. Verily newspapers sometimes traverse the earth, and at times soar on the wings of news, and sometimes change their name and become like electric currents from which spread tidings, news and traces. However, I beseech God, exalted be His glory, to confirm their proprietors that all may act in accordance with what is befitting. It was not expected that some European newspapers would make mention without investigation or become followers of the fabricated statements of the servants. The manifestations of vain imaginings send writings to newspapers day and night, and these are published without investigation. As some seek fresh news, they publish them. I beseech God to aid all to act according to His exalted Word: "Believe not every speaker, nor be assured by every arrival." Repeatedly from every quarter some souls have desired that an account be written and sent for publication in books and newspapers. This was not accepted; until now no word has been given. The command is in His hand. He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He desireth.  BH00009
