Verily, it is enjoined upon you to offer a feast, once in every month, though only water be served; for God hath purposed to bind hearts together, albeit through both earthly and heavenly means.  BH00001

Hold the Nineteen Day Feast with utmost magnificence.  AB09344

Thou didst write of the Nineteen Day festivity, and this rejoiced my heart.  AB10091

When once every nineteen days the people of the Kingdom gather in an assembly  AB08825

If possible have a general meeting every nineteen days even though it be to partake of only water and bread.   ABU0191

I beg of God, out of His endless bounties, that many such gatherings will be held, and that the Nineteen Day festivity will also be observed  AB04915

It is my hope that this feast will be given on one day out of every nineteen, for it bringeth you closer together; it is the very well-spring of unity and loving-kindness.  AB03158

The Nineteen Day Feast is explicitly ordained, and hath been revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas by decisive text. It hath been implemented everywhere, and is acceptable and praiseworthy.  AB11906

You wrote about the Nineteen Day Feasts. These feasts are the cause of glad tidings, bring joy, establish unity and accord, and are the means of affection, fellowship, and the spread of human oneness.  AB11164

It is the Nineteen Day Feast. A group of faithful friends and radiant leaves are gathered in supplication to the Abha Kingdom. All blessings are present and prepared, and the table is infinitely pleasing.   AB00285

A group should come together every nineteen days. It is not optional, it is incumbent on them. In every city they should do this...The purpose of the Feast is this-to enkindle the spirit of love and friendship   ABU0392

The Feast of every nineteenth day is the cause of happiness and joy to the hearts. If this Feast becomes established in a befitting manner the friends will attain to a new spirit in every nineteenth day and discover a spiritual power.  AB10951

The purpose of this feast is fellowship, love, supplication, remembrance, and promotion of charitable endeavors. That is, they should engage in remembrance of God, recite verses and prayers, and show utmost love and fellowship with each other.  AB00696

It is better to hold these Feasts in the homes, but in case of necessity, hold them in the hall. Have food according to the ability of the host. Even tea alone is sufficient. If the food is cooked, then it is better to have tables for seating the people. If the food is not cooked, it may be passed. It is a Spiritual Feast. It is no harm to have a little friendly interchange before and after the Feast.  ABU1635

"Nineteen days are according to 19 'Letters of the Living' which is composed of the Bab and 18 others. The aim of this Feast is that at every 19 days the believers of God may gather together; engage in mentioning 'Him Whom God shall manifest' - Baha'u'llah - and be reminded of the Testament and the Covenant. Its material meaning is every person or number of persons who are able, may arise to serve the believers of God and spread before them spiritual and material food."   ABU3071

The Nineteen Day festivity is of the utmost importance that the friends should gather at a meeting where, in complete attunement and love, they should engage in the remembrance of God and His praise, and converse as to the glad tidings of God, and proofs of the Advent of Baha'u'llah, and should recount the high deeds and sacrifices of the lovers of God in Persia, and tell of the martyrs' detachment from the world, and their ecstasy, and of how the believers there stood by one another and gave up everything they had. The Nineteen Day Feast is therefore very important.  AB07508

You must continue to keep the Nineteenday Feast. It is very important,--very good. But when you present yourselves in the meetings, before entering them, free yourselves from all that you have in your hearts;--free your thoughts and minds from all else save God and speak from the heart--that all may make this a gathering of love;--make it the cause of illumination;-make it a gathering of attracted hearts; surround it with the lights of the Supreme Concourse. Thus may you be gathered together in the utmost love.  ABU0003
