Noah came and with lamentation, helplessness and supplication called the servants to the Self-Sufficient, the Exalted   BH04696

This is why it is said to Noah: "He is not of thy family, for his conduct is unrighteous." That is, O Noah, Canaan is not of your children and lineage   AB02338

We beseech God's grace that He may grant such a life to His loved ones that the ages of Noah and Hud, according to common conception, would appear as but a moment compared to their centuries and ages.   AB03352

His Holiness Noah (peace be upon him) called the people for nine hundred and fifty years each day, and they would abuse him so severely with sticks, clubs, fists, slaps, stones and whips that they were certain he would die. Despite this he did not flag or fall short.  AB00881

O thou who followest Noah the Deliverer! O carpenter! Thou art of the same craft and profession as His Holiness Noah. He built the ark of salvation and devoted himself in service at the Sacred Threshold. He protected a company of souls from the Most Great Flood and preserved them from destruction.  AB09698

And after him He sent Noah with guidance, who said: "O people! Fear ye God and follow His Messengers if ye have believed in God. Then remember God and be ye among those who remember God." When they turned away from him, God drowned them in the depths of fire in the waves of heedlessness in the valley of sulfur, and therein they perished.  BH02051

Long afterward, He several times promised victory to His companions and fixed the hour thereof. But when the hour struck, the divine promise was not fulfilled. This caused a few among the small number of His followers to turn away from Him, and to this testify the records of the best-known books. These you must certainly have perused; if not, undoubtedly you will. Finally, as stated in books and traditions, there remained with Him only forty or seventy-two of His followers. At last from the depth of His being He cried aloud: Lord! Leave not upon the land a single dweller from among the unbelievers.  BH00002

And when days had passed and nights had gone by, We sent Noah with truth and clothed him in the garment of the Spirit, making him a sign for those who desired to be guided. But when he came to them with Paran of fire and lights of the Spirit, they turned away from him, ascribed partners to God, the Supreme, the Beloved, and said: "Thou art not sent, nor hast thou been guided by God's lights. Rather, thou art of those who lie upon the earth, and thou art naught but a deceiving impostor." They sought to slay him, but We preserved him from those who would ascribe partners to God. When matters grew severe for him, he performed ablutions with holy waters and sat before God in beloved humility, desiring to call down affliction upon them. Then We sent down to him the angels of heaven that he might be among those who show mercy, and they descended upon him and said: "O Noah, deal not with them as they have dealt with thee. Have mercy upon them and take them not to task for their rebellion, for they are weak upon the earth and poor in the kingdom, possessing neither death nor life nor resurrection for themselves. Be patient in God's Cause, for He shall fully reward those who are patient and who trust in their Lord. This is the first affliction to descend upon the earth, so be patient with their tyranny and persecution. God shall reward thee with the recompense of those who are patient in His good-pleasure." And Noah arose from his place and desisted from what he had intended. Thereafter he called them unto God, the Supreme, the Beloved. Thus did Our mercy precede all things and Our grace encompass all who are in the heavens and earth, would ye but ponder the mysteries of the Cause. Years passed in succession, yet his people were not guided by God's guidance and were of those who in all eternity were not to be guided. The melodies of God moved them not, but only increased them in rebellion and unbelief, until Noah despaired of them and desired to call down affliction upon them and render them as scattered dust. Then We sent angels from another heaven who said: "O Noah, be not the first cause of earth's affliction. Have mercy upon God's servants and overlook them and their misdeeds, that they may be guided by God's lights and then by His signs." So be patient in the Cause, then be steadfast, and be as an iron mountain in the Cause of God, the Supreme, the Beloved. And he was patient thereafter until a time and season had passed that none knoweth save God, as honored servants do testify. Yet they believed him not in aught, nor did they arise from the graves of their desires, nor were they gathered after the trumpet was blown, and thus were they veiled within their own shrouds. Then did God call unto him from behind the veils: "None of thy people will believe except those who have already believed." And likewise were they veiled in the shadows of their own selves. Then did God call unto him from behind the veils: "None among thy people will believe except those who have already believed, and grieve not for what they do." When he heard the call of God, his soul was stirred with longing and he raised his hands, saying: "O my Lord! Leave not these people upon the earth." We answered his prayer and commanded him to build the Ark. When the Ark of the Spirit was completed through the Most Great Word, We said: "O Noah! Embark therein those of thy kindred for whom the decree hath already gone forth, those who excel in the religion of God." Then did We cause the clouds of wrath to rain down showers of heedlessness, and We drowned all who were on earth save those who were embarked upon the Ark of the Spirit.  BH00031

Then when ages and epochs passed, We sent forth Noah from Our presence to guide people unto God and give them glad tidings of these days. We commanded him to take from the people of earth a covenant concerning this Manifestation. He said: "O people! Fear God and be not of those who join partners with Him. Your God is one God. Worship none but Him." They opposed him and denied Him Who sent him with truth. At every moment he was afflicted with hardship and adversity in God's path - the King, the Powerful, the Most High, the All-Knowing - until We delivered him and those with him, and drowned the evil-doing people who were among the losers.  BH00705

