
"Don't talk about politics."  ABU0836

"God willing, the world of humanity will find rest; the existing competition between the powers may pass away. Thank God we are free from all these questions. His Holiness Baha'u'llah has emancipated us."  ABU0913

never interfere in political affairs   AB02902

Do not interfere in political matters.  AB06893

and not interfere in political affairs   AB01970

We seek to play no part in political affairs  AB06630

for it is spiritual and not political in nature  AB11384

The Baha'is took absolutely no part in these upheavals  AB12447

not to meddle with political affairs; not to curse the State officials  AB01187

The Cause of God is sanctified from all political power and worldly affairs.   ABU2825

They have guarded against, and refrained from, meddling with political affairs.  AB12811

Another unifying force is political power, which is different and prevents unity  ABU1248

Be most careful about matters of politics. Do not mention it. Our Cause is not political.   ABU2195

obey the authorities of affairs, and make no interference whatsoever with political matters  AB00725

The Baha'is did not side with anyone and refused to participate in warfare and hostilities.   AB11832

The friends must completely stand aside and be detached from all these events and differences.  AB11828

some spiritual matters that have no connection to government and politics can be consulted upon  AB03371

Such titles cause the souls to become frightened and bring about suspicion and misunderstandings   ABU3020

Regarding women's suffrage, this is a political issue and I am detached from all political matters   AB03499

Baha'is fulfilled their duties and never entered into corruption nor interfered in political affairs  ABU1602

His secretary told him the same thing - that this group was in no way involved in political matters.  ABU1304

Say, ye are commanded to speak not a single word of evil against any one nor against the Government.   ABU1564

Never interfere in political matters. The divine friends acted accordingly and did not interfere in affairs.   AB00942

the loved ones of God, praise be to God, acted with utmost composure and did not interfere in political matters  AB02686

In the time of despotism they had neither affinity with the dominant government nor enmity with other parties.   AB02792

We have absolutely no connection to politics and make no mention of anything except the chanting of clear verses  AB00771

in accordance with Baha'u'llah's testament, never interfere in political matters - indeed, not even discuss them  AB00760

The friends of God must conduct themselves with complete calm and composure, not interfering in political affairs.  AB02279

This person is purely political. The friends, like Shaykh Farajullah, must speak with him with wisdom and moderation  AB08425

And the party of God is forbidden from interfering in political matters, whether minor or major, domestic or foreign.  AB05039

And if you become powerless, withdraw.  AB12167

if you remain powerless, withdraw completely.    ABU1542

Do not enter into or interfere at all in political matters. Be occupied with your own professions and your own affairs.   AB00434

The authorities should take note of this point: that the Baha'is, by explicit text, do not interfere in political affairs.  AB00969

"Do ye not refer regarding any mater in these days to the President of the Republic. Do ye not give him any inconvenience."  AB04423

We never interfered in political affairs, for Baha'u'llah has explicitly forbidden us from involvement in political matters.   AB12113

its foundation is love and kindness and the promotion of the oneness of the human world and non-interference in political affairs   AB07504

I beseech God to make you divine, not political.  AB01995

The friends must act with complete sincerity toward the government, stay away from the agitators, and remain aloof from all parties.  AB02264

But the beloved of God, guided by the divine teachings, estranged from any dispute and political intrigue, were safe and protected.   AB00805

If the friends remain aloof, they will be safe, and this will become a cause of honor and a source of confidence for all governments.  AB09517

The divine friends must, as before, not interfere in political matters...The divine friends must not discuss politics even in private.  AB02102

But in political matters, as before, do not interfere at all, for by the decisive text of the Blessed Beauty, interference is forbidden.   AB01381

"On the contrary, those who were absorbed by personal interests or political affairs degraded not only themselves but their associates."   ABU2036

The believers, therefore, have been categorically forbidden to participate in these affairs, and have distanced themselves from corruption.  ABU3710

You must persist in peace, amity, love and goodwill toward all people, loyalty to the government, and non-interference in political affairs.   AB11903

you must avoid politics because we are completely forbidden from expressing opinions about or becoming involved in matters related to politics   AB04975

especially to strive in obedience to the government and to not interfere in political matters in any way, nor even to breathe a word about them   AB00624

The Baha'is have no attachment to political affairs, neither are they connected to constitutional rule nor involved in aspirations of autocracy.  AB01606

Baha'u'llah has forbidden the Baha'is from interference in political matters, that they should never raise their voice in political discussions.  AB11190

deal with him with the utmost kindness and wisdom, for he has some involvement in political affairs, and we are entirely aloof from such matters.  AB02538

According to the explicit text of Baha'u'llah, we do not speak about political matters because we are forbidden from interfering in political affairs.   AB04422

Praise be to God that it had become evident and known to all that the Baha'is are free from any intrigues and seditions. They confer life and not death.  ABU0485

From prancing in the political arena, only a nest and dwelling will be organized, but soaring in the divine atmosphere is ascending to the apex of glory.   AB00571

The divine friends must conduct themselves with the utmost love, tranquility, composure and impartiality, and must never interfere in sedition and mischief.  AB08886

Ever call the friends to impartiality and invite them to universal love. They should stand aloof from all parties and busy themselves with their own affairs.  AB10092

As for the book you had written about, this was written concerning political matters to promote justice and fairness and bring about the comfort of humanity.   AB02576

These papers are about politics. We do not interfere in the affairs of politics at all. We interfere in the affairs of the heart, in education and in morals.   ABU0304

As for the matter of the division of the Red Sea, this is from political affairs. We are engaged with matters of the Kingdom, and you too should walk this path.  AB02761

According to the decisive text of the Blessed Beauty, the friends do not interfere in political matters, but rather must concentrate all their thoughts on teaching.   AB02827

We have no interest in being involved in political matters. We have no attachment to these issues... We do not become involved in or interfere with political affairs.  AB03382

Thou hast asked whether to enlist in the Socialist party. The Baha'is must be in the Baha'i Cause which comprehends all the degrees and is perfect from every standpoint.  AB11555

That which is an essential prerequisite of faith and certitude to abstain from interference in party politics and to sacrifice thine all in the path of the Lord of Lords.   AB00843

This preservation, protection, security and comfort was due to the blessing of the sacred teachings, whereby the friends of God in no region interfered in political affairs   AB00856

We have no connection with any party: we are neither partisans of the victorious Government nor do we share the opinions of the glorious people. We stand aside from all strifes.   AB02996

Regarding the question of the Constitutional Movement, we do not interfere in political matters. Rather, our work concerns the heart and soul, and we strive to improve character.  AB01448

We have nothing to do with political tricks and chicaneries. All the nations and governments of the world are harbouring these thoughts, are flying in this devitalizing atmosphere.   ABU1998

Likewise, that spiritual gathering must strictly avoid interference in political matters that concern the local government. They must not even breathe a word about political affairs.  AB00394

mention of political matters in public meetings is absolutely not permitted, as it is harmful to the Cause of God, for we are completely forbidden from involvement in political affairs  AB12204

"The religious ideal is the soul of all plans for the good of mankind. Religion must never be used as a tool by party politicians. God's politics are might, man's politics are feeble."  ABU2879

As he had gained a reputation for his honesty and truthfulness, when he stated that the Baha'is do not involve themselves in political affairs, his words were accepted by his audience.  ABU3685

And I say to you that this Cause absolutely has no involvement in politics, rather it is purely spiritual, related to the Kingdom rather than to earthly sovereignty and the material realm.  AB02619

In brief, the well-wishers of Iran must resort to means that will yield inevitable results and assured attainment. Otherwise, perfect results from imperfect causes are impossible and absurd.  AB02940

Fifth is preventing all from that which causes sedition and corruption, complete non-interference in political affairs, refraining from conversation in this regard even to the slightest degree  AB01545

Regarding the disorder and differences among the parties in those regions that you wrote about - the party of God must withdraw from all and never interfere. Leave them to their vain pursuits.   AB03089

They do not interfere in matters of corruption, they are well-wishers of all. In Iran there were all these revolutions, praise be to God the divine friends did not interfere in any revolution...   ABU2569

Therefore it was written before that the friends should withdraw from all political matters involving any groups, maintain neutrality, not attend any gatherings, and not associate with any faction.  AB00732

Each of the parties took up a pickaxe and struck at the foundation of Iran until they destroyed it. The only party that was not a partner and participant in the destruction was this oppressed party.   AB00947

During the revolution in Iran, praise be to God, you were well-wishers of all and strove for universal peace and reconciliation. You had no attachment to any party nor any resentment toward any group.  AB00914

Religion is concerned with things of the spirit, politics with things of the world. Religion has to work with the world of thought, whilst the field of politics lies with the world of external conditions.  ABU0091

In any case, we have no part in these matters. The divine friends must absolutely not interfere in these affairs, but rather must occupy themselves with their own work with perfect sanctity and detachment.  AB01237

Those who are prohibited from interfering in political affairs are those who have no official position and no connection with the government. Interference in political matters lies outside their responsibilities.  AB10467

Abdul-Baha will not accept membership in the Peace Society. Through the power of the Word of God He promotes peace, and except through the power of the Word of God, the establishment of universal peace is not possible.   AB03667

The friends of God must, by the decisive text of the Lord, abstain from such matters and completely avoid them. They must neither align themselves with any society in political affairs, nor become intimate with any group.  AB00215

The friends must show perfect obedience and submission to the government. They must not associate with any society at any time, nor harmonize with political parties. They must not interfere in political matters whatsoever.  AB01914

Do not involve yourselves with or discuss matters of government and politics, for God hath created you to give exhortations and counsels, correct the morals and bring enlightenment and spirituality to the world of humanity.  AB01437

They should absolutely not interfere in these political matters, should not become intimate with any party, and should not associate with any group...We have no concern with these affairs...we have no connection with any party  AB01844

Some government officials suspect and imagine that you report Iran's affairs to foreign powers and have thereby gained favor with foreigners. If this were true, it would be contrary to the definitive commands of the Manifest Light.   AB12168

And the friends of God are also asleep while these slanderous souls have penetrated into the roots of various parties and do not let Iran find peace...and the friends of God are also silent and occupied with disputes over minor affairs.  AB00560

It became evident to the governments and peoples of the world that this community had no intention or purpose except the peace and wellbeing of humanity, and would in no way interfere in political matters and corruption, nor take lives.  ABU0446

From the beginning of the revolution it was repeatedly written that the divine friends must withdraw from this tumult and clamor and strife and contention, and strive and sacrifice themselves for reconciliation between government and nation   AB01314

Although political and state affairs are of great importance, nevertheless in comparison to this mighty Cause they are no more than a mirage, they assuage no thirst and are the weakest of edifices in the face of this fortress of the Kingdom.   AB04899

"They must act according to the instructions, which are that they should obey the government and be well-wishers to both sides and as much as possible be the cause of peace and tranquility, but absolutely not interfere in conflict and strife."  AB01678

They neither share confidences with politicians nor associate with freedom-seekers, neither thinking of government nor occupied with criticizing any of the people... They should not interfere in any matter nor engage in any political question.   AB00384

beware, beware that it should write a single word against the government, for this would cause severe consequences and great harm in this world and the next, and would damage the very foundation, since it is explicitly forbidden by definitive text  AB11939

We have no attachment to the political realm and do not interfere in worldly affairs. By explicit text we are forbidden from opposition and commanded to obey rulers unconditionally, and are obligated to submit to those in authority in all matters.  AB11322

"Regarding political events, explain to the authorities that this oppressed community has remained aloof from all parties since the beginning of the revolution, and has always strived for reform and unity, and when unable to achieve this, withdrew"  AB01480

They must be submissive to just Rulers, and well-behaving subjects to the benevolent Prince; they must obey the Government, and interfere not with political matters. They must turn toward the Orb of the Universe, and engage in beautifying their morals.  AB00687

The dissolution of that meeting was because it had been whispered secretly among strangers that this meeting was political. Therefore, the members of that meeting should be extremely happy that 'Abdu'l-Baha dealt with those souls without fear or compromise.  AB08290

We are commanded to obey the present government and we have absolutely no involvement in political affairs and express no opinions thereon. Do not utter a single word about political matters and do not seek fellowship or association with any person involved therein.   AB01483

we are absolutely forbidden by explicit text from interfering in governmental matters and never discuss or intervene in matters of government...we do not interfere in political affairs...interference in governmental affairs is abrogated by the text of the Book of Aqdas  AB12207

In this general movement in Iran, it became clear and evident that not a single Baha'i was among the active societies. Rather, all kept their distance and did not interfere in political affairs, but engaged in obedience to the government and well-wishing toward the nation.   AB00054

Tell the loved ones of God that no one should ever interfere in governmental affairs, whether by word, deed, story or report. They should always be engaged in offering good prayers for those in authority, for by the decisive divine text they are forbidden from interference.   AB01727

Praise be to God, it has become established and known to all that the friends have no quarrel or contention with any faction, and they destroyed no homes. Rather they have love for all and their ultimate desire is the progress of Iran and Iranians, but without war and strife  AB00808

However, since we are forbidden from interfering in political affairs, writing a law ourselves would be contrary to obedience to the command. Even this much that is written is due to utmost love and goodwill that compels us, otherwise even this much would not be permissible.  AB07452

Our way and path is clear and known, and is explicitly recorded in the Tablets. We have no part in political affairs or any matter related to the physical world. Our focus is the moral world, so that human realities may become united and agreed, manifesting divine inspirations.  AB06137


The Baha'is have no attachment to political affairs, neither are they connected to constitutional rule nor involved in aspirations of autocracy. They pray for and wish well to all peoples and those of different opinions. They have no quarrel with any party nor seek to blame any people.  AB01606

The Baha'is must not engage in political movements which lead to sedition. They must interest themselves in movements which conduce to law and order. In Persia at the present time the Baha'is have no part in the revolutionary upheavals which have terminated in lawlessness and rebellion.   ABU0689

I set forth, with clear proofs and irrefutable arguments, that all should be obedient to the government, and that the leaders of religion should in no wise interfere in political affairs. Whenever the divines have interfered in political affairs, it hath been detrimental to the common good.   AB01413

I had written to the friends from the beginning that they should distance themselves from all political parties, and shun every friction, they should entrust the affairs of this material world to those whose concern is the mundane matters of this earth, and leave its politics to the statesmen.  AB00640

Some ignorant ones criticized 'Abdu'l-Baha, asking why, given the despotism of government forces, He did not assist the nationalists. If 'Abdu'l-Baha had assisted them, they would have triumphed in a short time, but the first thing they would have done would have been to kill the friends of God.   AB01057

As we were imprisoned for the Cause of God and not for political reasons, while in prison we were not perturbed and had no worries. However, the others thought that after I was set free I would raise the banner of independence among the Arabs and unite them with me! See, how ill-informed was such a judgment!  ABU2449

The divine friends must collectively make it clear to all that from the beginning of these successive upheavals it was repeatedly written that the friends of God must never interfere in political affairs but must remain aloof and wish well to both sides, and show the letters that were written in this regard.  AB02974


We have nothing to do with these affairs. We are occupied with our own condition and we hope to act according to that which we are obligated to by the divine text, and that is obedience to the government and goodwill toward all nations of the world, and peace and reconciliation with all peoples and communities.  AB12202

Never speak about political affairs, as this is outside your duties. Those matters belong to the rulers and political parties - you have absolutely no connection with them. The duty of the Spiritual Assembly is spiritual matters and complete abstention from discussion of political affairs, even in reporting them.  AB02608

with perfect ease and freedom, purity and simplicity, and leisure, occupy yourself with composing a divine political history, and let its foundation be the neutrality and non-interference of the divine friends in this political tempest - that they remained aloof from all parties and were averse to any partisanship  AB06200

Speak thou no word of politics; rather, concern thyself with spiritual matters, for these lead to human happiness in the divine world. Make no mention of the kings of the earth and their material and temporal governments, except to speak well of them. Rather, confine thy words to glad-tidings of the Kingdom of God  AB07020

In any case, the Baha'is should not interfere in political matters... A community that establishes the unity of the human world certainly cannot delve into political affairs, because a diplomat must always promote his hidden agendas, and this contradicts the intentions of peace, harmony, sincerity and faithfulness.   AB00703

But it is an established fact that the Bahais are the well-wishers of the nation and the government; are showing forth obedience and displaying good intentions; are not interfering in political matters; are engaged in the education and spiritualization of characters and are occupied with the training of the ignorant ones.  AB00490

The signature of that meeting should be the Spiritual Gathering (House of Spirituality) and the wisdom therein is that hereafter the government should not infer from the term "House of Justice" that a court is signified, that it is connected with political affairs, or that at any time it will interfere with governmental affairs.   AB03141

The friends of God must withdraw from all parties, never interfere in political matters, obey the government, wish well for all, engage in teaching the Cause of God, accept as true and proper whatever issues from the Pen of the Covenant and remain firm and steadfast, conducting themselves with complete dignity, sobriety and composure.  AB11801

They should never mention political matters in the consultative assembly... If anyone wishes to speak a word about government actions or criticize those in authority, others should not agree, for the Cause of God has absolutely no connection with political matters, neither now nor before. Political matters pertain to those in authority.  AB01526

As soon as political plans are introduced in the Cause the spirit is killed. The apostles of Christ never devised any political schemes whereby to win the majority votes. These disciples were not politicians; they were the harbingers of the glad-tidings of the Kingdom. They did not know anything about election, votes, initiative and referendum.   ABU1582

Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that human politics, no matter how advanced, is as nothing compared to divine politics. We must glorify the politics of the Divine Realm and follow the Lord of the Kingdom, for divine politics is the light of the world of existence and that all-encompassing mercy which embraces all peoples and nations without exception.  AB11806

All regions testify that this community is pure and innocent of political matters, and the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones - in all Tablets, Scriptures, Books and Treatises explicitly forbade the loved ones from involvement in political affairs and commanded all to obedience, submission, truthfulness and service to sovereigns.  AB11836

It will be in order if you send him the translations of certain Tablets which are suitable for him, those which are in accord with his taste. But this should be done in such a way that the Russian Government may not think that you are in agreement with all his principles including interference in political affairs. For the Count is fully involved in politics.  AB04798

The friends of God have no concern whatsoever with the agreements or disagreements of government officials. They must not even utter such matters with their tongues. The point is that the friends must not utter a word about political matters, for these do not concern them. Rather, they must occupy themselves with their own affairs and services, and nothing more.   AB00288

Given these lofty aims, how can they sully themselves with these conflicts and disputes which are but the playthings of political figures? His Excellency Mumtazu'd-Dawlih knows that all this strife and conflict stems from the personal motives of a limited number of people on both sides - there is absolutely no pure intention involved. Given this, how can the Baha'is intervene?   AB11862

This congress will not produce a lasting effect, for it is essentially politico-religious...This congress had under discussion the politics of the religions. In truth, it is not a political affair...You must not spend your time with political questions and political articles. We have nothing to do with the political world. Our thoughts and deeds are confined to spiritual things.   AB00354

The women of other nations are all immersed in political matters. Of what benefit is this, and what fruit doth it yield? To the extent that ye can, ye should busy yourselves with spiritual matters. In America, the cradle of women's liberation, women are still debarred from political institutions because they squabble. They are yet to have a member in the House of Representatives.   AB00677


The people of God must not in any way interfere in political affairs during this most great tempest, must withdraw from all parties and groups, and must not become intimate or aligned with any faction. Even in spiritual gatherings, no mention should be made of the thoughts and opinions of any of the Iranian parties. We have neither any secret with the constitutionalists nor any harmony with the independents.   AB00264

By the decisive divine text we absolutely do not interfere in political matters. Therefore, answering this question is beyond the duty and obligation of these wanderers. This issue belongs to the political realm and relates to His Majesty's government. Never ask such questions of this wanderer, as they are beyond my obligation. What role has this prisoner in political affairs, and what business has this wanderer?   AB01872


My point is that, the Baha'is of Iran live in peace because I have repeatedly written that they should not interfere in political matters. Praise be unto God that they never intervened and are now in safety. And if some did meddle in politics, then they alone suffered the consequences. Repeatedly and successively, I have written to the friends of God in Iran not to breathe a word about politics, even should they be slaughtered.   ABU0887

We have nothing to do with political matters. We mind our own business and offer counsel - whoever wishes may act upon it and whoever wishes may leave it. The friends of God must keep aloof from all and abhor any dispute and conflict. They must obey the government and be well-wishers of all, neither associating with any party nor allying with any group. To them belong war and strife and conflict, to us belong peace and tranquility and moderation.  AB00665

Beware, beware, lest any of the beloved friends meddle in the political affairs, or say a word to this effect. According to the explicit divine Text, the friends of God should play no part in political affairs, rather the path of all should be the refinement of characters, the development of souls, unification of all people under the one true faith of God, love, compassion, unity and harmony, and the dissemination of waves of spiritual power amongst the people of the world.  AB00412

At the beginning of the revolution, 'Abdu'l-Baha strove with utmost effort that the friends remain neutral and be well-wishers to both sides. It was observed that some were interpreting differently and interfering, and the result would be that the government would use this as a pretext and direct force against the weak members, massacring all the divine friends while acting as mediators, and through this affair the government would gain strong influence and demonstrate its power. I summoned Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid 'Ali-Akbar and said that whatever I wished to prevent the friends from interference was not possible, some were inclined to interfere and this would yield harmful results. Now, purely to prevent this interference, I wish to write a statement regarding the center of sovereignty - if appropriate action is taken, well and good, otherwise "bada" (divine alteration of decree). It is among the established matters in the Cause of God that they said to Imam Ja'far-i-Sadiq that "we were awaiting the seventh Imam and were saying 'their seventh is their Qa'im' - how is it that this did not come to pass?" He replied "I am that seventh one, but bada occurred." In brief, I told him that if bada was permissible regarding the Qa'im-hood of Imam Ja'far-i-Sadiq, now if appropriate action is not taken, bada is the easiest of matters. AB03482

In brief, praise be to God that the divine friends, by the conclusive text of the Lord and the severe prohibition of Abdul-Baha and his explicit forbiddance, did not at all interfere in these matters and all remained protected and preserved. While all communities in Iran were in the utmost agitation, the friends of God remained confident and at ease, and in perfect peace and security they engaged in diffusing the divine fragrances and were occupied with chanting the evident verses.  AB10880


The intention is that you should properly explain to the officers of the eternal Ottoman government that the people of God absolutely do not interfere in political matters - they are forbidden by explicit text. If any person from this community interferes in political affairs, others must shun him and even disassociate from him. The proof of this is that during these agitations, corruptions and formation of assemblies that took place in Tehran, the Baha'is absolutely did not interfere or go near them.   AB01001

The Party of God has no involvement in political affairs and has no complaint or praise for the governments of the world. We stand apart from all parties and, with tear-filled eyes, seek the Lord's grace and bounty for all peoples and nations. We are neither intimate companions of the constitutionalists nor allies of the absolutists. Exercise complete sincerity and good-will toward the government authorities and His Majesty the Shah, and maintain obedience and good intentions, but absolutely do not interfere in political affairs.   AB00295

It was written to all that they must show complete obedience to the government and remain neutral and show kindness to all parties but never interfere in disputes and conflicts...the divine friends must completely abstain from interference, and whoever interferes in political matters even with a single word will surely fall into great difficulties, for they will have violated the divine text. You should prohibit everyone from interference. We maintain our original position and absolutely no change or alteration will occur in our thought or view.  AB12134

These matters relate to divine wisdom and cannot be explicitly explained. It is not that 'Abdu'l-Baha is unaware of the reality of things or that matters are unclear to Him, but it is due to the wisdom of the Cause. These events shall pass, and later the wisdom will become clear and manifest. Then all will acknowledge that what was said accorded with wisdom. The mysteries of 'Abdu'l-Baha's letters, the prohibition of involvement in political affairs, and the description and characterization contain consummate wisdom that will become evident hereafter.  AB07331

Following the [Persian Constitutional] revolution up to the present time, the people of Persia have made repeated attempts to elect people and form consulative assemblies, but these efforts have borne no fruit. They have only thrown the nations affairs into greater disarray and further agitated the tumult of the masses. This time is no different from the past. In such a case as this, however much the Baha'is keep their distance from this unrest, busying themselves instead with serving the Cause of God and spreading His sweet savours, it will leave them that much more untroubled.  ABU3727

The membership of the friends in parliament was desirable, because what is intended by not interfering in politics is not for the believers to refrain from serving the nation and the government; indeed service to the nation and government is an obligation. What is intended is that the friends should not form political parties or rise against the presiding government, and should not, like other groups, create agitation or engage in rebellion and sedition. The intention is not for them to eschew membership in parliament and service to the people and the government with heart and soul.  AB12183

Letters have been written on many occasions and to all the communities as well as to individual believers on this most important matter stating that according to the sacred texts the Baha'is should not interfere in politics even to the extent of uttering a single word. It is self-evident that the only impregnable stronghold, the only protection is the word of God itself. Now it is necessary to insist on this matter again, to admonish the friends most seriously and emphasise once more that the believers in God should not interfere in political matters should not even engage in debate on such issues.   AB00187

Religious matters should not be confused with politics in the present state of the world (for their interests are not identical). Religion concerns matters of the heart, of the spirit, and of morals. Politics are occupied with the material things of life. Religious teachers should not invade the realm of politics; they should concern themselves with the spiritual education of the people; they should ever give good counsel to men, trying to serve God and humankind; they should endeavor to awaken spiritual aspiration, and strive to enlarge the understanding and knowledge of humanity, to improve morals, and to increase the love for justice.  ABU0253

Thou hast asked regarding the political affairs. In the United States it is necessary that the citizens shall take part in elections. This is a necessary matter and no excuse from it is possible. My object in telling the believers that they should not interfere in the affairs of government is this: That they should not make any trouble and that they should not move against the opinion of the government, but obedience to the laws and the administration of the commonwealth is necessary. Now, as the government of America is a republican form of government, it is necessary that all the citizens shall take part in the elections of officers and take part in the affairs of the republic.   AB00639


Explain to the Embassy that the criterion of being or not being a Baha'i is this: whoever interferes in political affairs and speaks or acts beyond their duties - this alone is sufficient proof that they are not a Baha'i; no other evidence is needed. In brief, all know that we are completely forbidden from interference in political affairs, and these recent events in Iran are sufficient proof that we were entirely free from corruption, strife and contention - we never interfered at all.   AB00088
