

In existence there is no evil; rather, evil is the absence of good, just as darkness is the absence of light  ABU1436

Evil is the absence of good. All evils are non-existences and have no outward forms and shapes. Creation is good.   ABU2786

Nature inclines toward evil, unless divine teachings prevent and intervene. Otherwise the essence of nature tends toward evil.  ABU2247

Misfortune has no true existence. It is simply deprivation of divine bounty. Darkness is the absence of light, otherwise darkness has no outer reality.   ABU1361

"Creationally there are no bad people. They are all good. It is only when we subvert the original plan concerning our progress that the outcome is a distorted, abnormal state of being."  ABU1512

Everything in existence is good, and only the lack of goodness in it is evil. The being is created good, but when the lack of good is to be seen in it, then it becomes bad. Evil is not created by God.  AB01454

Evil is non-existence. All that is created is good. Evil is non-existence of good. Want of wealth is poverty; absence of justice is oppression; want of perfection is deficiency. All of these opposites imply non-existence and not existence.   ABU3139

Evil is non-existant because it is the absence of good. For example: darkness is the absence of light; ignorance is the absence of knowledge. When the light dispels darkness, and knowledge has replaced ignorance, they have lost their existence through the power of these living realities.   ABU1470

among the greatest of calamities is when the oppressor layeth claim to justice, and the liar to truthfulness, and the ignorant one to knowledge. BH10412

Evil does not exist. Death is only the lack of life; therefore death does not exist. Darkness is only the lack of light. Evil is only the lack of good. Ignorance is only the lack of knowledge. Poverty is the lack of riches. Misleading is the lack of guidance. Miserliness is the lack of generosity.  ABU2521

Darkness is the absence of light - it has no existence. Poverty is the absence of wealth. Ignorance is the absence of knowledge - when there is no knowledge, there is ignorance. When there is no light, there is darkness. When there is no eye, there is blindness. Just as when there is no wealth, there is poverty - not that poverty has any existence.   ABU2849

the greatest evil is (man's) going astray and being veiled from Truth. Error is lack of guidance; darkness is absence of light; ignorance is lack of knowledge; falsehood is lack of truthfulness; blindness is lack of sight; and deafness is lack of hearing. Therefore, error, blindness, deafness and ignorance are non-existent things.   AB07049

There is no origin of evil. The origin of evil is non-existent. For example darkness is evil. It is the absence of light. Whenever there is no light there is darkness. Consequently it has no existence. Poverty is the absence of wealth. Ignorance is the absence of knowledge. Evil is the absence of good. All evils are non-existences and have no outward forms and shapes.   ABU2786


By saying there is no evil in existence is meant that what has come from the Origin of existence and being is good and useful. It is good in its time and place and not evil. For example, I can say that there is no darkness in the sun because darkness is the absence of light and has no existence in itself. Oppression is the absence of justice and ignorance is the lack of knowledge.  ABU2463

In the innate nature of things there is no evil--all is good. This applies even to certain apparently blameworthy attributes and dispositions which seem inherent in some people but which are not in reality reprehensible. It follows therefore that in existence and creation there is no evil at all, but that when man's innate qualities are used in an unlawful way, they become blameworthy.   AB00117

Evil is nonexistent; it is the absence of good. Sickness is the loss of health; poverty, the lack of riches. When wealth disappears, you are poor; you look within the treasure box but find nothing there. Without knowledge there is ignorance; therefore, ignorance is simply the lack of knowledge. Death is the absence of life. Therefore, on the one hand, we have existence; on the other, nonexistence, negation or absence of existence.  ABU0019

It is universally recognized that evil is stronger than good. Evil has rapid influence, where good is slow in its impact. If a trustworthy person and a thief were together, the thief would never become righteous, but the converse may occur. Because of their association, a truthful person may become a liar, but it is rare for the perjurer to become truthful, or for the penurious to become generous by reason of his association with the charitable, or for the wicked to become virtuous, and so forth. This is because evil is stronger and its influence is more penetrating.   ABU0793

Evil is non-existence of good. Want of wealth is poverty; absence of justice is oppression; want of perfection is deficiency. All of these opposites imply non-existence and not existence.   ABU3139

Now, a doubt comes to mind: Scorpions and snakes are poisonous; is this good or evil, for they have a positive existence? Yes, it is true that scorpions and snakes are evil, but only in relation to us and not to themselves, for their venom is their weapon and their sting their means of defense. But as the constituent elements of their venom are incompatible with those of our bodies, that is, as these constituent elements are mutually opposed, the venom is evil--or, rather, those elements are evil in relation to each other, while in their own reality they are both good.  AB01360
