


Well is it with them who obey him, and call him to remembrance.  BH11367

Act thou according to My commandments for the love of My beauty   BH11017

Lengthen your life by living according to God's spiritual laws.   ABU3372

I am restrained, however, by the binding Law laid down in the Book  BHU0046

teach your sons the blessing of obedience and the happiness of sacrifice   ABU3539

Today obedience to the Command of God is binding and obligatory upon all.   BH09741

They speak not before He hath spoken, and they do according to His bidding  AB06010

This is what ye have been commanded in the Tablets, would ye but understand  BH05059

Then act according to that which thou hast been commanded in His Mighty Book   BH07514

Shun ye what ye have been forbidden in the Tablets, then walk in My footsteps   BH02974

Thus hast thou been commanded from the presence of One mighty and all-knowing.   BH10664

who followeth the command of his Lord in His Most Great, Most Holy Manifestation  BH10310

Act thou according to that which thou hast been commanded by the Mighty, the Wise   BH09321

Hearken unto the call of the Friend, act according to His bidding, and be content.   BH01289

and act according to His command. By My life, this is a mighty station with thy Lord   BH09612

All must look to that which God loves and act according to what is commanded in the Book   BH06328

When He commandeth you with a command, know that He speaketh naught except by My command.   BB00548

"O God, I call on Thee with a tongue that hath spoken no word of disobedience against Thee"  BH10742

Blessed is he who hath attained unto that which he hath been commanded in the Mighty Book.   BH10996

Act ye according to that which ye have been commanded by the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH08817

true wonder consists in good deeds, obedience to the commands and teachings of the True Lord  AB11444

The Command is from God. Fear thou God, for verily I see thee among the righteous ones.   BB00526

that he may follow the ways of God and His commandments which were sent down in His mighty Book  BH08982

God hath decreed that every soul should act according to what hath been sent down in this Book   BH04573

Whoso hath recognized God will not transgress what God hath revealed in the Scrolls and Tablets.   BH09461

Hold fast to the hem of thy Lord's grace, then act according to what We have sent down in the Book   BH07879

Cast away what ye possess and take what hath been given you from God, the Most High, the Most Great.   BH04106

These are the verses of God which have been sent down in truth from the precincts of the mighty Throne  BH05721

Regard Him not save as ye have been bidden in the Book. Fear God and be not of the ignorant ones.   BH08801

Follow that which thou hast been commanded in the Book from the presence of One mighty and all-knowing.   BH08193

Acting according to the Book of Aqdas is discussed, emphasizing the importance of following divine law.   AB03276

then act according to that which hath been sent down in the Book from the presence of an ancient Revealer.  BH06348

All bounty belongeth unto him who hath clung unto me and acted according to that which was commanded by God  BH09250

Do that which ye have been commanded in the Tablets of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate.   BH07298

Hold fast to the Book of God, then act according to what thou art commanded and be not of them who know not.   BH11129

To be killed for the Cause is not so difficult as to live for it in absolute obedience to the commands of God.  ABU2531

"Beware lest ye transgress that whereunto ye have been bidden in the Book of God, the Mighty, the Most Praised."  BH05195

"And how sweet is this obedience! How much sweetness lies in this humility, submissiveness and self-effacement!"  AB05842

Hearken unto the voice of the true Counsellor and act in accordance with that which is worthy of the Day of God.   BH08512

And none attains to this station except through following that which has appeared from the Dayspring of the Cause.  BH10782

Act according to that which the All-Merciful hath revealed - this is better than all upon which the sun doth shine   BH07320

to make me one who speaketh forth Thy Name and who acteth according to that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book   BH05872

Prefer thou obedience unto God above obedience unto any other, and His good pleasure above the pleasure of aught else   BH05877

O people, oppose not him who hath come to you with the verses of God, your Lord and the Lord of the mighty throne.   BH07101

Shun ye that which ye have been forbidden, then act according to that which ye have been commanded in the glorious Tablet  BH09910

That which is acceptable in the sight of God this day hath been and shall ever be obedience to God, exalted be His glory   BH09697

He is with those who have taken what they were commanded and cast away that in which every remote ignorant one takes pride  BH07731

However, all must fix their gaze upon the divine commandments and act in accordance with that which they have been bidden.   BH08128

Whosoever turns to Him hath turned to Truth, and whosoever turns away is accounted among the turn-aways in the Book of God.   BH05024

among them are those who cast away what they possessed and took what was commanded unto them from God, the Master of existence   BH10185

Today it is incumbent upon all to act according to the divine ordinances and to remain oriented toward the Most Exalted Horizon.   BH10548

Praise God that thou hast acted in accordance with the counsels of the Blessed Beauty and hast followed His instruction and advice  AB07426

The glory be upon thee and upon those who have hearkened unto the call of God and acted according to that which they were commanded  BH05373

Yet gather together the letters of this servant - how many volumes they make! And this is but one occupation among my occupations.   AB05625

Blessed art thou for having held fast unto the cord of His ordinances and acted according to that which God hath revealed in the Book.   BH05913

Today all must fix their gaze upon the divine ordinances and act in accordance with whatsoever hath been revealed in the Most Holy Book  BH10382

They who have drawn nigh and acted according to what they were bidden - these are of the people of Baha in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH09061

Blessed is he who acts according to what is commanded, and woe unto him who casts behind him God's command and follows his own desires.   BH09211

It behooveth every soul to follow Him in whatsoever He willeth. This is a manifest truth. Whoso is not upon this path hath not attained.  BH09753

O people, fear God and oppose not him who reciteth unto you the verses of God. Fear ye God, then fear His Cause, therefore fear Me.   BH02982

Finally the Blessed Perfection commanded me in the most empathic manner that I must marry. For the sake of His sacred Command I accepted it  ABU2669

Today all must fix their gaze upon the divine commandments and be content and grateful with utmost joy and delight in whatever He has ordained.  BH08929

Today two matters are most great before the Divine Throne: steadfastness and acting according to what the All-Merciful has revealed in the Book.   BH10002

It behooveth thee and those who believe not to approach except by His leave, nor to speak save that which hath been revealed in His mighty Tablet   BH08530

Thou art the One Who is praised in what Thou hast done and wilt do, and art obeyed in what Thou didst command aforetime and wilt command hereafter.   BH08704

If a king send many different governors to rule a city, and the people obey all but the last one, it will be to the king as though they disobeyed all.  ABU3386

The prostration of the people of Islam before the Black Stone was simply obedience to the Prophet of God and to prove the influence of the Cause of God.   ABU3131

Beware lest ye dispute with him after he has come to you from the Dayspring of Revelation with a momentous announcement that was inscribed in the Tablet.   BH06780

Blessed is he who hath heard what the Dove hath warbled and acted according to what his Lord, the Compassionate, the Forgiving, the Merciful, hath desired.  BH07037

Blessed is the state of the one who acted upon the divine counsels. Hold fast to the cord of My loving-kindness and cling to the hem of thy resplendent Lord  BH09358

The believers must be most pleased to comply with my wish. If my first expression in any matter is obeyed, it will lead to success and spiritual happiness.   ABU2706

Today all who are on earth are obligated to follow the divine commandments, for these are the cause of order in the world and tranquility among the nations.   BH10158

He decrees as He pleases and in His grasp is the kingdom of command. No one may say "why" - whoever says this has disbelieved in God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH04923

Follow ye what hath been revealed in the Tablets and be not of them that turn aside. Cast not the Messenger of God behind your backs and be not of the losers.  BH07019

O thou who art named Vahid! Preserve what hath been revealed in the Bayan and what hath been commanded therein, for verily thou art upon a mighty straight path   BB00614

If until now all had acted according to what has flowed from the Supreme Pen, all would have found themselves in the cradle of peace, security and greatest rest.  BH00089

O believers, whatsoever fruit of the Messenger He giveth you, accept it, and whatsoever He forbiddeth you, forgo it, for God hath made him wise in truth before Us.  BB00002

"Say: He is the One Whom the world must obey. He hath created all things for His following. This is what hath been decreed in the Tablet, were ye of those who know."   BH03127

God is My witness that I have never seen the book you refer to. I regard, however, through the power of God, ... whatever you wish me to do as easy of accomplishment.  BHU0056

I beseech Thee to make me one of those who have circled round Thy will and acted in accordance with what they were bidden in the Scriptures, Books, Psalms and Tablets   BH10028

Let them fix their gaze upon the horizon of the Cause and upon what is revealed from His presence, for verily He sufficeth all, and He is the Commander, the All-Knowing.  BH04262

This lowly one testifies that the correspondence of the friends is unlike the correspondence of all the peoples of the world. The full decree of union is manifest from it.  BH03018

All have been created to hearken unto the Word of God and to follow His Cause. That which the Truth hath commanded and commandeth is and shall be for the good of His servants.   BH07260

O ye who are the beloved of the All-Merciful throughout all possibilities! Hearken unto that which God commandeth you in the Book, and follow not the way of the mischief-makers.  BH08221

Thus doth He command thee, with Whom is the mighty Book. The glory of God be upon thee and upon those who have acted according to that which they were commanded in the Book of God   BH09772

Though the door of presence and speech be closed, yet through God's bounty the path of letters and messages remains open. Correspondence is half of meeting is evident and manifest.  BH06405

Thus doth the Most Exalted Pen command you, as a bounty from God, the Most High, the Most Exalted. Act ye according to that which ye have been commanded by One All-Knowing, All-Wise.  BH10401

We counsel the friends unto that which hath been revealed in the Book of God. Blessed is he who holdeth fast and acteth accordingly, and woe unto those who turn aside and are heedless.   BH09687

We testify that they are the dawning-places of wisdom and utterance unto all who dwell in the realm of possibility, and the daysprings of knowledge unto the followers of all religions.   BH00762

These are servants unto whom God hath testified in His Books which He sent down to the Prophets and Messengers. O friends of the All-Merciful! Hearken unto the call of the Wronged One.   BH00585

The Manifestation of God is a perfect example of real obedience. Like Him, we must sacrifice everything; every plan, every longing and ideal must be given up completely to the Will of God.  ABU0433

I call upon Thee, O Thou in Whose grasp are the reins of all religions, to assist me to remember Thee and praise Thee and to act in accordance with that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.  BH06680

And my correspondence was so heavy that, at the time of the death of an American maidservant of God, my letters to her were counted and numbered sixty-seven; so you can imagine the situation!   ABU2856

His power hath prevailed and His will hath encompassed all. He is verily the All-Compelling, the Mighty, the Powerful. The tongue hath spoken by His leave and the Pen hath moved by His command.  BH04226

Say: Cast not the ordinances of God behind your backs, and be not of the heedless. Act ye according to what hath been sent down in the Tablets from the presence of One Who is knowing, informed.  BH06665

Fear ye God and commit not that which hath been forbidden you in every wondrous verse. Take ye the laws of God and that which He hath ordained in His Book, and be not of them that forsake them.   BH04387

Let us not speak before hearing, and not act before being commanded, so that we may be counted among those servants of whom He says: "They speak not before He speaks, and they act by His command."  BH06007

We have revealed the Cause and commanded all to observe what hath been sent down in the Book. Among the people are those who have acted in accordance with it and those who have cast it behind their backs   BH06562

I swear by God! Whoso faileth to obey the commandments of God can in no wise be numbered among His loved ones, for among the conditions of His love is to follow His commandments and observe His prohibitions.  BH01050

"The deed of no one is accepted save by His leave, nor doth the cry of any soul ascend except through His love. Thus hath the matter been decreed in the Tablets of God, the Supreme, the Mighty, the Beauteous."  BH04185

If they move according to the divine will and act upon that which hath been sent down in the Book, ere long will the world and its peoples turn towards the Dayspring of Revelation and quaff the choice sealed wine.   BH05220

This is a Book from this Youth to all who are on earth: Worship none but God, the King, the Most High, the Most Great...He desireth naught except what your Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, hath desired for Him.   BH06776

Hold fast, O My loved ones, unto My commandments whereby every inscribed tablet hath been adorned. Take hold of God's principles with the power bestowed by Us, and follow not the ways of every rejected ignorant one   BH08812

The second is strict observance of the laws He hath prescribed - laws which He hath always ordained, and will continue to ordain, unto men, and through which the truth may be distinguished and separated from falsehood.  BH07535

Today ye must in all conditions hold fast to the divine commandments which have been sent down in the revealed Books from the Supreme Pen, for this is the cause of the life of the world and the preservation of nations.   BH10390

and second, following the divine ordinances which have flowed from the fountain of the Pen of God's Will, for the knowledge of God is not complete and perfect except through following what He has commanded and what has been revealed in God's Book.  BH02898

Worship none but Him and follow that which hath been revealed in His mighty, wise Book. Blessed are they who follow the commandments of God - they, verily, are in an exalted station. Those who follow their own desires are numbered with the heedless.  BH11810

Thou knowest full well that I have not spoken a word but by Thy leave, that my lips have never been opened except at Thy bidding and in accordance with Thy pleasure, that every breath I have breathed hath been animated with Thy praise and Thy remembrance  BH04460

Those who have been given spiritual insight from God are they who follow not the dictates of their desires, but hold fast unto that which they are commanded, and cleave to the cord of God and His Cause, and drink at all times from the cup of submission.   BH01410

Whoso obeyeth Him is saved and whoso turneth away is lost. It is incumbent and obligatory upon all the peoples of the earth, from its east and its west, its lands and its seas, its plains and its mountains, to obey Him in whatsoever is His good-pleasure.   BH01444

Read the blessed Tablets and act precisely according to the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, letter by letter.  AB00468

Were He to decree for the heaven the decree of the earth, none has the right to object to Him, and were He to dispose of what is on earth, none has the right to say "why" or "wherefore." Everything hath proclaimed that He is the One Who ruleth as He pleaseth.   BH03255

Hold fast unto the commandments of God, then act according to that which hath been sent down in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds. Verily it shall profit thee in this world and in every world of the worlds of thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH08918

If the friends of God listen to my first word, they will find the success of this and of the next world therein. But there are some who prefer their own thoughts above mine, and when they fall they beg me to save them. Progress and prosperity are in the first word.  ABU2397

"It is binding and obligatory upon every soul to obey the command of God. All must act according to that which hath been revealed in the divine Book and submit to it with perfect contentment. No one hath the right to transgress that which hath been commanded in the Book."   BH06423

All souls must show absolute submission to the Manifestation's authority and not deviate from their religion by even a hairsbreadth, even if they cannot grasp the wisdom behind certain commands. The followers have no share in the station of "He doeth whatsoever He willeth."  AB00227

They who have committed that which was forbidden them in the Tablets, these have transgressed the bounds set by God and are of the heedless ones. And they who have acted according to what they were commanded, these shall abide in the paradise of wisdom among them that rejoice.   BH05918

Whoso holdeth fast unto Him hath surely held fast unto the cord of My loving-kindness and clung to the hem of My generosity. And whoso turneth away, he is of them that have attributed partners unto God's verses from time immemorial, and for him there is no portion of this mighty ocean.  BH10353

When it is established that he is the Throne of Truth, and thou witnesseth in his presence a proof that all creation is powerless to produce, then his word is God's Word, his command God's Command, his prohibition God's Prohibition, obedience to him is obedience to God, his good-pleasure is God's Good-Pleasure.  BB00005

The sweetest thing in this world is to obey strictly the commands of God and shun His prohibitions. Through this the attractions of the Love of God will be created in human consciousness. If all the people of the world arise with swords in hands to detain him from carrying out the commands of God they will be unable to do so.   ABU0632

These, O my Lord, are Thy servants whom no corrupt inclination hath kept back from what Thou didst send down in Thy Book. They have bowed themselves before Thy Cause, and received Thy Book with such resolve as is born of Thee, and observed what Thou hadst prescribed unto them, and chosen to follow that which had been sent down by Thee.  BH05849


If we are certain he is the gardener we cannot question anything he may do...The important thing for him to know, is to be sure that the captain is a true captain...If he be sure that he is a thorough, competent doctor he must do what he orders...It is not for the soldier to question the General's orders; if he knows him to be the real general he must carry out and obey his orders exactly.  ABU0297

Methinks they have regarded the Divine commands as of no account, and considered the Lordly precepts as mere fancies. They speak as passion moveth them, then attribute what they say unto the One True God. He, verily, is clear of those who have wrought mischief in the land after it had been set in order, and who speak that which hath been forbidden them in the Book of God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH03510

A Baha'i must correlate his actions, words and affairs with the basic principles of the Blessed Perfection. If he sees that the former agrees with the latter, he may feel quite sure that he is on the right track. All our difficulties arise from the fact that our deeds do not correspond with the good pleasure of Baha'u'llah. With the presence of such a condition, it is passing strange that we still hope for benefic results.  ABU0106

