Q. Why and how is it that evil or unseen forces have the power to control one's affairs and why is it permissible for those forces to influence a person in any direction?  A. This is but the imagination of mankind.   ABU3641

Are the gifts of clairvoyance, and clairaudience true, and can we attain them?   He said thoughtfully:   "I think we should learn to live in the body as if it were a glass case, through which we can look clearly on all sides. But we must remember that we can not see through glass unless it is clean, and no one can dust his own case but himself."  ABU3232

Asked if disembodied souls could communicate with embodied ones, He replied: "Yes, but they do not do it through medums nor in material ways, but in spiritual ways."  ABU3549

[The question was asked if it were possible to establish communication with the dead, and whether it was wise or advisable to attend seances or to engage in table-turning, spirit-rapping, etc.] The Master said these rappings, etc., were all material things, and of the body. What is needed is to rise above the material to the realms of the purely Spiritual. Table-turning and such like were material, a natural result, and not spiritual.  But it was possible to communicate with the dead through the condition of the character and the heart. ABU3265


Someone wished to know if it were a good custom to wear a symbol, as, for instance, a cross. He said: "You wear the cross for remembrance, it concentrates your thoughts; it has no magical power. Baha'is often wear a stone with the greatest name engraved on it: there is no magical influence in the stone; it is a reminder, and companion. If you are about to do some selfish or hasty action, and your glance falls on the ring on your hand, you will remember and change your intention." ABU3168

Question - Can we communicate with the spirits of the departed? 'Abdu'l-Baha said that there is a communication between spirits, but that the spiritual seances as given in Europe where spirits are supposed to move objects, etc., are phantasmagoria. That spirit can communicate with spirit is proven by the known fact of teaching. It is a self-evident fact that nothing tangible passes from the teacher to the pupil, yet ideas are conveyed. In point of fact, the human mind is in its original state nonindividualistic, and the teacher individualizes knowledge by classifying it and locating it with respect to the pupil's mind. So soul can communicate with soul and in the realms of existence such intercommunication is possible.  ABU2773

And what you have asked about is the domain of fortune-tellers and diviners, not of the righteous. In no age have the saints of God engaged in such childish games  AB02886

when that person known for having an evil eye looks at this poor soul, the one who believes becomes agitated and disturbed, and expects some calamity to befall them   AB05067

What the people claim regarding the other side and that they receive messages from that place is not quite as, they only feel something within themselves, but they do not perceive, there is a great difference between feeling and perception.   ABU3397

Abdul-Baha told Miss Buckton not to tamper with the psychic forces in this world. It hampers and retards the condition of the body both in this world and especially the world to come. These forces are real, but not to be active on this plane.   AB04609

As for your second question about wearing talismans and prayers, or dissolving the Greatest Name in water and drinking it to cure illness: if these two acts are done with complete attention, purity of heart, sincere intention and spiritual attraction, their effect is powerful.   AB01473

Speaking about the fantastic hyperboles of the Suffists as regards the projection of spirit out of the body and even the transference of the body from one place to another the Master told this story which is recorded in the Sufi literature and believed as possible by many devotees.  ABU1478

Thus if you desire protection from the powers of the world and earthly influences, place the Greatest Name in your dwelling, wear the ring of the Greatest Name, and keep Abdul Baha's photograph in your home. Read my prayers always and thus see a wonderful effect, causing all superstitious powers and influences to vanish away.  AB06032

By virtue of this, he prohibited busying oneself with it and working with these kinds of sciences, including divination (jafr) and geomancy (raml), was forbidden in most of the Tablets. (This was done) so that a deceiving person could not display himself in the cloth of trustworthiness and not exceed the limitations of himself  BHU0025

As for the question of spirit communication which is now discussed among people - these are delusions, and certain displays are produced through contrivances. If it were true, there would be no need for material and political measures and economic arts. Every government would choose someone to communicate with spirits and consult about the realities of events.  AB02512

The power is neither heavenly nor spiritual; neither is it an influence from disembodied spirits. It is of the human spirit--magnetism within the self of the one doing the writing. When the thoughts have taken possession of the mind and are not consciously directed, one becomes subject to their promptings and, unconsciously, or automatically, takes a pencil and writes them down. The oftener this is done, the stronger becomes the magnetic prompting.  ABU1727
