
Make a mighty endeavour, then, and speak forth in such wise that the patterns and systems of the material world shall become aligned with the over-arching order of the cosmos itself and may reflect the beautiful symmetries of universal law.  AB09507


Nature is a condition or reality which outwardly appears to be the source of life and death, or in other words, the composition and decomposition of all things. This nature operates under precise systems, firm laws, perfect arrangements and consummate geometry, from which it never deviates.  AB01029

The laws of nature flow in their course, and no being can deviate an atom from natural law.   ABU1170

The chain of creation is interwoven in a natural law and divine order. Everything is interlinked. A link cannot be broken without affecting that natural order. Everything that happens is in conformity with this order and is based on consummate wisdom.  ABU2457

Likewise, look into this endless universe: a universal power inevitably existeth, which encompasseth all, directing and regulating all the parts of this infinite creation; and were it not for this Director, this Co-ordinator, the universe would be flawed and deficient. It would be even as a madman; whereas ye can see that this endless creation carrieth out its functions in perfect order, every separate part of it performing its own task with complete reliability, nor is there any flaw to be found in all its workings. Thus it is clear that a Universal Power existeth, directing and regulating this infinite universe.   AB00103


While in reality the sun with all its glory is nothing but a captive to nature. It has no will power, no intelligence. It cannot deviate a hair's breadth from nature. It cannot control its own movement. It cannot even help from giving forth its rays. It is just the same as the other planets. How numerous are the fish in the sea, the jewels and the corals also! They likewise are captive in the hands of nature.  ABU0622


Observe the mystery of existence and the manifest proof: verily your Lord, the All-Loving, has made every contingent being a prisoner of the laws of nature and subservient to its rules. As you see, all things are under the authority of nature's law, humbled beneath its might, and compelled when its power and dominion appear. Even the sun, that Greatest Luminary, cannot deviate a hair's breadth from its laws - rather, it is obedient to its decree and abased before its manifest sovereignty, never transgressing its orbit. And this surging ocean, despite its vastness and expanse, cannot escape from its bondage or free itself from its chains.  AB00102

The discoverers of the mysteries of existence and those who comprehend the qualities and hidden secrets hold that a wondrous force of attraction and a strange magnetic power of connection permeates and encompasses all these infinite beings and successive contingent things, both physical and spiritual, and is equally present in them all. And it is through this universal force that the individual essences of the different simple elements come together, and due to the diversity and differences of parts, the multiplication and contrast of the infinite diverse realities of existing things come into being. The world of matter has become a rose garden of wonders and a garden of subtle and elegant mysteries. In truth, every thing has unveiled itself through that universal attractive force with a manifestation and light and has displayed its beauty. And in human reality it has become the power of yearning, bringing about enthusiasm and passion and attraction.  AB06872

Even these massive spheres revolve through the force of attraction, the force of love. Love bestows wondrous life upon lifeless bodies.  ABU0993

In the Universe, all atoms and particles are united by the power of attraction and cohesion; if it were not for this, everything would be immediately dissolved and annihilated.   ABU1391

Let us view the mineral kingdom. Here we see that if attraction did not exist between the atoms, the composite substance of matter would not be possible. Every existent phenomenon is composed of elements and cellular particles. This is scientifically true and correct. If attraction did not exist between the elements and among the cellular particles, the composition of that phenomenon would never have been possible.  ABU0043


Love is the supreme magnetic force that directeth the movements of the spheres in the celestial realms. Love revealeth with unfailing and limitless power the mysteries latent in the universe.  AB01214

The discoverers of the mysteries of existence and those who comprehend the qualities and hidden secrets hold that a wondrous force of attraction and a strange magnetic power of connection permeates and encompasses all these infinite beings and successive contingent things, both physical and spiritual, and is equally present in them all. And it is through this universal force that the individual essences of the different simple elements come together, and due to the diversity and differences of parts, the multiplication and contrast of the infinite diverse realities of existing things come into being. The world of matter has become a rose garden of wonders and a garden of subtle and elegant mysteries. In truth, every thing has unveiled itself through that universal attractive force with a manifestation and light and has displayed its beauty. And in human reality it has become the power of yearning, bringing about enthusiasm and passion and attraction.  AB06872

"All things in existence are formed by particles and atoms which are united by the power of attraction. This is such a great power that all the world is held together by it - and not only the world, but the Universe. All are made of atoms and united by attraction. What is this power of attraction? Love!"  ABU0709


Look now upon the next highest stage of life, the vegetable kingdom. Here we see that the plant is the result of cohesion among various elements, just as the mineral is in its kingdom; but, furthermore, the plant has the power of absorption from the earth. This is a higher degree of attraction which differentiates the plant from the mineral.  ABU0043

In the mineral kingdom, the force of attraction is a sign of the power of love. Likewise in the vegetable kingdom, the growing power and the relationships between individual elements are expressions of love. Similarly in the animal kingdom, emotional attractions spring from love. And in the human world, all these connections are present and manifest  AB12289
