
The Cause of Baha'u'llah is the same as the Cause of Christ. For example this room is now lighted, but some one comes in and turns off the light through his ignorance, and we are steeped in darkness. Then another person coming in and hearing voices and lamentation turns on the lights and the room is again illumined. He may renew some of the furniture but the light and the room - are always the same.  ABU3052

Baha'u'llah has announced that the foundation of all the religions of God is one, that oneness is truth and truth is oneness which does not admit of plurality. This teaching is new and specialized to this Manifestation.   ABU0130

Therefore let us search and find out the one glorious song which has run throughout all ages, with thousands of entrancing accompaniments, the effect of which have changed millions of human beings.  ABU0206

The religious conceptions of every creed postulate the existence of a medium, or intermediary between God and man. The spiritual teaching of each medium, the Word of God, whether Moses, or Elijah, or Christ, or Mahomet, was the same. The light is the same. The mediums are identical, that is, derive their radiance from the same source. Moses, Mahomet, Christ--what are these but names? What do names, mere words, matter? And yet people quarrel about these names. And the teaching is that the true object of religion, of spiritual progress, is to make every soul reflect the Divine. Each soul must become radiant as a lamp.  ABU1070


The word 'same' means that the reality is one. Just as the sun arises from several points. This sun after one month will arise from another point. It is just like this; but the reality is the same sun.  ABU3512

In every age and century, the horizon of the world becomes illumined with a special manifestation and is brightened by a supreme sign. In the age of Abraham, the horizon of existence shone with the lights of Divine friendship. In the Mosaic age, the dayspring of reality gleamed with the rays of Mount Sinai. In the time of the Spirit of God (Christ), all existence was perfumed with holy fragrances. In the day of the appearance of the Sun of Yathrib (Muhammad), the dawn of creation was illumined with the light of love and grandeur. At the time when the veil was lifted from the countenance of the Primal Point (the Bab), the morn of guidance was adorned with the brilliant rays of the greatest glad-tidings. And in the Most Great Manifestation and the appearance of the Ancient Beauty, the horizons of the world were encompassed by all divine outpourings, manifestations, names and attributes, and were enlightened, proven and perfected - for the Most Great Ocean contains and encompasses all seas, gulfs, lights, springs and conditions. AB00663

By God, the Torah hath testified to Him to Whom even the pebbles have borne witness, and the Gospel crieth out unto the Glorious Lord, and the Qur'an proclaimeth the advent of the All-Merciful, and the Bayan circleth round the Throne. Yet the people remain wrapped in a thick veil.  BH07791

We act in accordance with the Gospel. But we must also act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah.   ABU3267

While I was living in Acca I was always able to establish peace amongst the Christians, the Jews and the Mohamadans  ABU1394

Moses promoted reality, as did Christ, Abraham, Muhammad, the Bab, and Baha'u'llah - all established and promoted reality.  ABU0056

mixing together friends from among the followers of the Qur'an and of Moses   AB01743

By religion I mean the lights of the Sun of Reality, and the foundation of divine religions is one - it is one reality, one spirit, one light. It has no multiplicity.  ABU0235

Religion has to be a cause of harmony for mankind. When religion breeds enmity and hate, it is preferable that religion does not exist.  ABU0477

The basic teachings of all divine religions is the same and the Prophets are the dawning places of truth. No one can take exception or say that the principles of the Prophets and the truth of their teachings are different.  ABU1372

The birth of our Lord was for all; those who shall know of Him and those who shall not. The Spirit is the same everywhere. Under whatsoever name men address Him, He will respond to their call.  ABU3366

Baha'u'llah is the same Light in a new Lamp. To see, we must look at the Light and not at the Lamp. This is Spiritual Sight. The sun is one orb, but it has different rising-points on the horizon. One point was Jesus, one Moses, one Baha'u'llah, and so on.   ABU0468

The sun of truth rises in each season from a different point of the horizon -- to-day it is here, yesterday it was there, and to-morrow it will appear from another direction. Why do you keep your eyes eternally fixed on the same point? Why  do you call yourselves Christians, Buddhists, Mohammedans, Bahais? You must learn to distinguish the sun of truth from whichever point of the horizon it is shining! People think religion is confined in an edifice, to be worshipped at an altar. In reality it is an attitude toward divinity which is reflected through life.  ABU1955

Christ said, 'What has happened in the past will happen again in the future.' The reason of this is that all things are under the operation of Divine Law which is the same today, yesterday, and forever.   ABU3202

Religion with God is Islam, from Adam to the Seal, as God, glory be to Him and exalted is He, has said "Abraham was a Muslim community." Thus all the Prophets and Messengers were Muslims because they were all upon the manifest truth - "We make no distinction between any of His Messengers."...  But as for the fundamental foundation, there is absolutely no change or alteration, and you will never find any change in God's way.   AB02149

The Shining Reality which is the Spirit of the world today is One and not many.   ABU3008

Observe how the light of the glorious Gospel shone upon all regions and formed what a mighty nation, though at first it had no importance in the eyes of the Pharisees. Later it became clear that the heavenly teachings bring life to all horizons. Therefore we hope that once again the reality of the teachings of the sacred religions, which is one teaching, will again illumine the horizons and the oneness of the human world will be proclaimed, and these dark clouds of war and conflict and imitative prejudices will be dispersed, and the light of truth will illumine both East and West. AB06803

The hope is that this gathering will investigate truth and cast aside all traditions in order to discover the reality of divine religions, and that the religion which today is the cause of the life of the world, the luminosity of this century, and the cause of the unity of the human world, will become evident with utmost clarity - so that the foundation of differences may be demolished and all religions may find harmony and gather at a single point. AB03271

the Master said religion was one truth which the sectarians had divided; however, the Light can be found everywhere, and it was good to unite with the people, especially in work for humanity and when one's own motive was pure. ABU2794

people divided this land into sections and named one "England," another "France," "Germany," " America," etc., and they began to fight and make battle. He created man gentle, peaceful and social, without sharp claws and long canine teeth. Then man invented the sword and death-dealing instruments. Therefore, universal peace must be established, religions must be unified and equality must be accomplished.  ABU2812

Differences between religions are due to misunderstanding and imitation. If these imitations were to be eliminated, all religions would be united.   ABU3126

Praise be to God that the foundation and basis of divine religions is one  ABU2703

The Ultimate object of all the religions is One: Dogmas have bred differences. All the religionists concur together that there must of necessity be an intermediary between God and man. ABU0673

There are prepared souls in every religion. Today God is working in all the religions, instructing a number of souls in the school of Celestial brotherhood. These souls are related together by the invisible tie of the Spirit.   ABU0673

Christ gave this great foundation, as did Mohammed, the Bab and Baha'o'llah. They are all one. There is no difference in their teachings.  ABU1957

The Baha'i Movement is the nucleus for the brotherhood of man and is growing day by day in beauty and stature. Already in Persia the adherents of different religions imbued with the Baha'i principles associate with each other in one meeting with the utmost joy and fragrance.  ABU0673

All the different religions of God that have risen on the face of the earth have one purpose: to educate man and to inform him of the spiritual, the luminous, the divine, so that he may partake of heavenly spirit and find eternal life, show forth the virtues of mankind, and from a world of darkness enter a world of light. There is no other reality of meaning to the different religions. Their purpose is one, the teaching is one.   ABU0302

the fundamental principles of our Cause are universal peace and the promotion of the basic doctrine of the oneness and truth of all the divine religions. Differences between religions are due to misunderstanding and imitation. If these imitations were to be eliminated, all religions would be united.  ABU3126

I can go to all Temples and worship God.  ABU3050

"Embrace all religions with spirit and fragrance"   AB11653

We must visualize the Universal harmony of religions.  ABU1045

Being a Baha'i, my affiliation is with all religions.   ABU3639

My aim is to create love and harmony among the religions  ABU2596

The Baha'i Faith encompasses the principles of all religions   ABU3566

divine religions are one...Therefore divine religions are one  ABU0614

The truth of the religion of Moses and of Baha'u'llah is one.   ABU3161

that the sects of antagonizing and dogmatic religions be unified  AB05590

That all religion be united and made one, all sect become one sect   ABU0447

the basic doctrine of the oneness and truth of all the divine religions   ABU3126

it matters not what name each calls himself - The Great Work is One. Christ is ever in the world of existence. He has never disappeared out of it.... Rest assured that Christ is present. The Spiritual beauty we see around us today is from the breathings of Christ.  ABU3346

There is no doubt that the Truth is one and the path leading to Him is one.  BH05140

imitation differs but reality and the foundation of divine religions is one  ABU2822

the reality of the teachings of the sacred religions, which is one teaching  AB06803


"So shall we see the truth in all religions, for truth is in all and truth is one!"   ABU0282

The Reality of all is One. Truth is one. Religions are like the branches of one Tree.   ABU2524

The Law of God is one and the Religion of God is one, and that is love and fellowship.  ABU1744


May it promote the concept of one homeland, of one nation and of the basic unity of all religions.  AB12398

"The tree of humanity is one and is planted by God. The origin is one and the end must be also one."  ABU1512

A friend asked how the teachings of Baha'u'llah contrasted with the teachings of Jesus Christ. "The teachings are the same." declared Abdu'l-Baha; "It is the same foundation and the same temple. Truth is one, and without division. The teachings of Jesus are in a concentrated form. Men do not agree to this day as to the meaning of many of His sayings. His teachings are as a flower in the bud. Today, the bud is unfolding into a flower! Baha'u'llah has expanded and fulfilled the teachings, and has applied them in detail to the whole world.  ABU2418

The Cause of Baha'u'llah is in fulfillment of all the prophecies in all the books of the religions of the world.  ABU3600

The saplings of the world have appeared from one Tree, and the drops from one Sea, and all existence from one Soul.  BH06924

I would have assembled some of the Muslim and the Christian chiefs and exhorted them to disallow internal conflict   ABU3276

The Beloved gently spoke to them about the fundamental identity of all religions - a principle which they quite disliked  ABU2893

The indication of unity and harmony among the Israelite and Muslim friends has become the cause of glad tidings and joy.  AB01983

By the life of God! The divine religion and His Faith have come to unite and accord, not for difference and discord.  BH07546

This is the day of universal peace, of universal brotherhood, of a universal language and of the union of all religions.   ABU2536

The God of Persia is the God of France, of Turkey, of Italy, etc. He is One and the same, so in loving Him we are united.  ABU2201

The divine religions were revealed for love and amity and have brought out harmony among the different peoples and nations.  ABU2816

Associate with all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship, and should wisdom dictate, convey the word of truth.   BH00709

He illumined the world with the light of unity and commanded the peoples to manifest spiritual deeds and heavenly attributes.   BH04201

the elucidation of the essential unity of the divine religions, the explanation of the continuity of the prophetic revelation   ABU2012

In other words, all the religions and societies find their principles not only unfolded in this Dispensation but well-developed.  ABU2620

Make not the religion of God a cause of variance among you. Verily of a truth, it was revealed for the unifying of the whole world.  BH11456

The sun is one orb, but it has different rising-points on the horizon. One point was Jesus, one Moses, one Baha'u'llah, and so on.   ABU0468

Love ye all religions and all races with a love that is true and sincere and show that love through deeds and not through the tongue  AB01704

All these holy souls were founders and promulgators of the one reality, and this reality is not subject to plurality or divisibility.   ABU0035

Tonight they are holding the Feast of Elijah on the top of Mount Carmel in memory of his ascent to heaven in a chariot of fire. It is most significant that the Jews, Christians and Mohamadans are celebrating this feast in common without any religious prejudices. ABU2271

Search for truth. Seek the realities in all religions. Put aside all superstitions. Many of us do not realize the Reality of all Religions.  ABU2033

"The foundations of all religions are one" "All seek truth in the foundations of religion, and all foundations of divine religion are one."  ABU0961

I spoke to them of the oneness of humanity and the oneness of religions. I said that fanaticism must be forgotten and religions become one.  ABU0539


that all religion become one that all differences may be removed. And this is that, I hope, all people be of one creed and all nations as one.   ABU2353

the unity of all religions, so that when the people of the world recognize the truth of all religions, they may become united since truth is one   ABU2221

By God, the Torah hath testified to Him to Whom even the pebbles have borne witness, and the Gospel crieth out unto the Glorious Lord, and the Qur'an proclaimeth the advent of the All-Merciful, and the Bayan circleth round the Throne. Yet the people remain wrapped in a thick veil. Verily, they who have turned away have in truth turned away from God throughout all ages. BH07791


I testify that the Book is the Word of God from the Sun of Truth in every Dispensation, howsoever God willeth and in whatsoever tongue He revealeth it.  BB00654

They teach that the internal, spiritual Idea is the same in all the religions, that a unique, general plan underlies the foundation of the past Faiths   ABU3057

The Baha'i message is a call to religious unity and not an invitation to a new religion, not a new path to immortality, God forbid! It is the ancient path cleared of the debris of imaginations and superstitions of men, of the debris of strife and misunderstanding and is again made a clear path to the sincere seeker, that he may enter therein in assurance, and find that the Word of God is one Word, though the Speakers were many.  ABU2950

All of the leaders must, likewise, go to the churches of one another and speak of the foundation and of the fundamental principles of the divine religions.   ABU1796

This strife and contention that has lasted between the two nations for two thousand years may disappear, and the oneness of the world of humanity be unveiled.  AB03424

They do not realize the Bounty of this Manifestation in that it upholds the Truth of all the Religions and unifies mankind upon the basis of faith in one God.  ABU0997

Be it known that there is but one foundation to the religion of God. The apparent differences have come through ignorance. Words differ but the purpose is one.   ABU0058

By the life of God! The divine religion and His Faith have come to unite and accord, not for difference and discord. The Mother Book beareth witness to this  BH07546

The fourth candle is unity in religion which is the corner-stone of the foundation itself, and which, by the power of God, will be revealed in all its splendour.  AB00143

Religion as reality is one reality; it does not admit multiplicity or division. If the nations of the world investigate reality, they will agree and become united.  ABU0007

O people of the earth! Make not God's religion a cause of variance among you. Verily it hath been sent down in truth for the unification of all who dwell in the world.  BH00017

When we look to the reality of divine religions, we see that there is one reality, for all divine religions are reality and reality does not accept multiplicity or division.  AB00866

The real principles of the Masonic Order are found in the Baha'i reality. The principles of Christ are found in the Baha'i Cause, and so are the principles of all other faiths.  ABU2306

The diversity in Faiths is also a cause of separation. The true foundation of all Faiths must be established, the outer differences abolished. There must be a Oneness of Faith.  ABU2075

The basic principles of all religions are the same and the dawning point. Hence, the Baha'is believe in the fundamental truth of all the religions and turn to the Sun of truth.   ABU2143

It was a proof of unity and oneness and an evidence of love and freedom. The purpose of the coming of the Manifestation of the Mount is the unification of the world of humanity.   AB04378

In reality there has been and there will ever be only one religion and that is the religion of Truth, one faith and that is the faith of Love. All other things are non-essentials.   ABU0349

Through the revelation of Books and the sending of Messengers, God hath desired the unity and concord of His servants and the education and tranquility of all who dwell in the lands.  BH00219

"to become, with all their hearts and souls, the real friends of all nations; to become with the utmost joy and fragrance, the spiritual companions of the adherents of all religions"  AB00644

The foundation underlying all the divine precepts is one reality. It must needs be reality, and reality is one, not multiple. Therefore the foundation of the divine religions is one.   ABU0225

He declared that the reality of all religion is one, that all religions have the same foundation for their teaching. He taught men that the foundation of the religion of God is love.   ABU0036

Although the days of every manifestation may in one sense be called the Day of God, yet this Day is, in all the Books, Psalms and Scriptures, specifically God's and attributed to Him.   BH00185

to prepare them to hearken unto that which conduces to the sanctifying and purifying of the people of the world from strife and discord resulting from differences in religions or sects  BH11203

The Cause of Baha'u'llah is the same as the Cause of Christ. It is the same Temple and the same Foundation. The origins and ends are the same. The sun of today is the sun of yesterday.   AB04411


They said all are fruits of one tree and leaves of one branch, except some are sick and must be healed; ignorant and must be educated through training; unlearned and must be made learned.  ABU0630

In this Movement there is the quintessence of all religions, for all religions will find their purposes embodied in it. What are their purposes? To discover the fundamental basis of Truth.   ABU1811

Good tidings of unity and harmony among the friends in Hamadan, both Muslim and Jewish, arrive continually, for praise be to God, they attend each other's gatherings and are in full accord.  AB01758

"While all the other religions are hating and denouncing each other, the Baha'is are the friends of all religions and the lovers of all peoples, and their aim is to unite and harmonize all."  ABU2763

Religion is an organic unity. Denomination, sects, religious confessions are but a variously close or loose connection with God: adorned with additions which are different with time and place.   ABU1484

Know ye that the paths to God are as numerous as the breaths of the creatures, and that there is no soul but one, and that there is no religion but the one religion, and it is the Cause of God.   BB00297

O servants of the All-Merciful! Set aside differences and hold fast to the cord of unity. This is what ye were commanded in the Tablets of God aforetime and in this glorious and wondrous station.  BH03000

peace between religions...And I proclaimed that the foundation of divine religions is one and these differences are from traditions - if the people of religions abandon traditions, all will unite  ABU1848

In reality all the inhabitants of Europe owe their allegiance to one Religion, and that is the Religion of His Holiness Christ; they also belong to one racial stock, which is no other than Aryan.   ABU0099

Be unified in God's Cause and His religion in such wise that no differences may arise among you - this is a matter We have loved from all eternity and have inscribed in preserved tablets of glory.   BH01163

The foundation of all religions is one in terms of fundamental principles and all are based on truth. Therefore there is no difference between the Manifestations of God's Cause and divine religions  ABU1436

The Sun of Divinity and of Reality has revealed itself in various mirrors. Though these mirrors are many, yet the Sun is one. The bestowals of God are one; the reality of the divine religion is one.  ABU0196

There is one God; mankind is one; and the foundations of religion are one. Let us worship Him, and give praise for all his great prophets and messengers who have manifested his brightness and glory.  ABU1120

For each and every people, and every religion, await a Promised One, and Baha'u'llah is that One Who is awaited by all; and therefore the Cause of Baha'u'llah will bring about the oneness of mankind   AB00802

The word 'same' means that the reality is one. Just as the sun arises from several points. This sun after one month will arise from another point. It is just like this; but the reality is the same sun.  ABU3512

The fundamental principles of all religions are one. They are unchangeable and do not differ. This is what Christ meant when He said, "I am not come to destroy the law of the Torah but to promote it."   ABU2314

O people! He hath appeared with the signs of Ali, the proof of Muhammad, the evidence of the Spirit, the testimony of Moses, the traces of the Friend, and the proofs of all the Prophets and Messengers.   BH01901

Therefore, the religions are essentially one and the same. Christ ratified and proclaimed the foundation of the law of Moses. Muhammad and all the Prophets have revoiced that same foundation of reality.  ABU0015

Among the teachings is that religion must be the cause of fellowship, unity and oneness, not the cause of alienation. If religion becomes the cause of bloodshed, it has no necessity for the human world.   AB02100

They all had love for each other and were friends with one another. So why should we not be friends? They were at peace with each other, why should we fight? They confirmed one another, why should we deny?  ABU0154

From the beginning the followers of all religions have believed in two seas, -- one salt and one fresh; in two trees -- the tree of good and the tree of evil. For this men have called one another heretics.  ABU1723

The foundation of all religions is one and the aim of all creeds of the world is also one. All are believers in the oneness of God. All believe that a mediator between the Creator and the creatures is needed.  ABU1619

Each considers their own prophet and messenger as the means of divine bounty, and calls the religion of God the cause of progress, happiness and love for humanity. In this case, all are united in fundamentals   ABU1075

The Message of Krishna is the message of love. All God's prophets have brought the message of love. None has ever thought that war and hate are good. Every one agrees in saying that love and kindness are best.  ABU0281

We wish naught among men and aim at nothing save the eradication of ignorant prejudices; so that all religions and races, embracing one another, may gather under the shade of the Pavilion of the Oneness of God.   AB01375

Religion can be divided into two parts: the first is the spirit which never changes; and the second the laws which are regulated according to the time. True religion is always one in whatever form it may appear.  ABU2376

Lay such a foundation that the influence of the confederation of religions and sects may permeate to all parts of the world from Green Acre; and Green Acre for the future ages and cycles may become the standard bearer of the oneness of the world of humanity.   ABU0925

All the religions are revealed for the sake of good fellowship. The fundamentals, the foundations of all are fellowship, unity and love. The heavenly books were revealed and divine love bestowed to bring about peace.   ABU0083

so that pure and good souls may be illuminated by the light of the knowledge of God and thus serve the merciful Threshold by showing earnest desire for love, peace, affinity and harmony with the people of all religions   AB07040

We cherish the hope that through the endeavors of God's loved ones and friends, the withered world may be revived, and the weakness of the monotheists may be transformed into strength, and their powerlessness into might.  BH11645

They are all one. There is no difference in their teachings. When we come to kind actions and to striving for the highest ideals of humanity, these things remain the same in all ages, in all countries and in all tongues.  ABU1957

Every one receiving these instructions will think, 'How like my own religion!' This is because they are so broad that they include all truths; and all religions are built upon the same foundation. All intolerance must go.  ABU0894

O compassionate Lord! Unite all, reconcile the various religions, make of all nations one nation that they may become parts of one household and consider the whole earth as one homeland and live together in perfect unity.  AB04517

The divine religions have descended for love and amity among mankind. They have been founded for unity and the purpose of affinity among mankind. They have descended for the purpose of cementing together the human family.  ABU0171

An extensive talk was given about the oneness of the Holy Manifestations - Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad, the Bab, and the universal Manifestation of Baha'u'llah - which they listened to with the utmost joy and delight.  AB00340

The prophets had for one another the utmost love. They exalted one another. They offered one another the greatest homage. Then why should the followers of these mighty teachers wage war on one another and kill one another?  ABU0013

Religion is but one religion, and it is the Command of God, and Our Command is but one, so set thy face steadfastly toward the true Faith--the nature which God hath instilled into mankind. There is no altering God's creation.  BB00297

"All the Prophets of God were Manifestations of Truth and Reality. But because imitations have crept into religions, divisions and misunderstanding have resulted. These imitations cannot be found in the reality of religion."  ABU2293

Today the Sun of Truth is shining and the light of divine unity is manifest and clear. Blessed is the soul that hath attained unto the lights of true unity and hath received its portion from the divine fragrances of this Day.  BH00440

The point is, that the Cause of Baha'Ullah is inclusive of all perfections and supplies all the needs of the world of humanity. But this cannot be accomplished in a short time. Time is needed. This will gradually be realized.  AB01223

The various religions will be united, and different races will be known as one kind. Abraham proclaimed this reality; Jesus promulgated it; all the Prophets who have appeared in the world have founded Their teachings upon it.  ABU0192

Religion must be the cause of affection. It must be a joy-bringer. If it become the cause of difference, it were better to banish it. Should it become the source of hatred, or warfare, it were better that it should not exist.   ABU0108

Read some passages from Tajalliyat, Kalimat, Ishraqat and the Kitab-i-Aqdas regarding the Most Great Peace, unity with all humanity, oneness of mankind, and fellowship and kindness, in such a way that it appears as a narrative.  AB00468

Divine religions are not the cause of dissension, nor do they beget enmity and hatred, for the foundation of all of them is truth and truth is one, it has no plurality. The differences which we find are the results of imitations.  ABU0110

Whoso turneth to names because of their connection to God, he is indeed among the unitarians. And whoso fixeth upon them in themselves and for themselves, he is among the worshippers of names and is accounted among the idolaters.   BH02087

Whenever these people mention each other's leaders with due reverence then all sufferings and contentions shall cease and instead of hatred there will be love and instead of enmity and disunity there will be harmony and affection.  ABU3321

Whosoever is the servant of God he is a follower of all the teachings of the Divine prophets; those spiritual teachings which were taught by Mohamad, Christ and other Messengers of God. We must obey and practice these principles.   ABU1176

That which is obligatory and essential today, and hath been repeatedly revealed from the Most Exalted Pen, is the unity and concord of the known souls who have been honored with special distinction, as well as the other loved ones.   BH01719

Religion must be the cause of Love and amity - if Religion ever becomes the means of hatred and rancor then irreligion is better than that kind of religion for Religion is a cause of treatment and remedy for the sickness of the body social.  ABU0081

The servants of this mighty Cause must be the loved ones of God. Therefore, the friends must manifest such unity, harmony and oneness that they become the cause of wonder to others and set an example for all peoples, nations, religions and tribes.  AB08811

The basis of the teaching of Baha'u'llah is the Unity of Mankind, and his greatest desire was that love and goodwill should live in the heart of men. If these religious prejudices could be swept away, the nations would soon enjoy peace and concord.  ABU0072

The Christians, the Jews, the Mohammadans, the Buddhists, the Zoroastrians, the Theosophists, the Freemasons, the Spiritualists, etc etc do find their highest aims in this Cause, while this cannot be applied to other religions, sects and societies.   ABU0763

The divine Prophets are conjoined in the perfect state of love. Each One has given the glad tidings of His successor's coming and each successor has sanctioned the One Who preceded Him. They were in the utmost unity, but Their followers are in strife.  ABU0037

"He guided people from all nations and religions, cemented different denominations and united diverse nationalities to such an extent that if you attend their meetings you cannot say who is a Jew, who is a Muslim, who is a Parsi or who is a Christian."  ABU0521

One can worship God everywhere, and if only the Christians would go to Moslem mosques and Jewish synagogues, similarly if the Mahomedans would go to the church and the Jews to the mosque all the quarrel between these three great religions would vanish.  ABU3050

The foundation of the divine religions is one and that is the truth which generates love and affection and is the cause of the unity of mankind. But imitations vary and they are the cause of disagreements and are the destroyers of spiritual foundations.  ABU1357

A Baha'i denies no religion; he accepts the Truth in all, and would die to uphold it. He loves all men as his brothers, of whatever class, of whatever race or nationality, of whatever creed or colour, whether good or bad, rich or poor, beautiful or hideous.  ABU1105

God sent all His Prophets into the world with one aim, to sow in the hearts of men love and goodwill, and for this great purpose they were willing to suffer and to die. All the sacred Books were written to lead and direct man into the ways of love and unity.  ABU0276

the Spirit of God is using these instruments in all parts of the world to create a mighty synthesis of all that which is best in the past religions - thus all mankind may associate with each other with the deepest fellow-feeling and universal consciousness.   ABU2492

"Teach them as the truths contained in their own religion; and after you have instructed them and gladdened their hearts, you may tell them of the Messenger, and remind them of the promise of Buddha that another teacher should come, teaching the same truths."  ABU2915

I traveled to countries in Africa, Europe and America, called people to these blessed teachings and invited nations and religions to the oneness of the foundation of all religions and the abandonment of prejudices, wars, dogmatic imitations and superstitions.  ABU1617

The foundation of the divine religion is one, the Law of God is one. All the Prophets were sent to spread it. Therefore every nation that acted according to divine counsels reached reality. The divine teachings are one, the foundation of the love of God is one  ABU0618

The foundations of all the divine religions are peace and agreement, but misunderstandings and ignorance have developed. If these are caused to disappear, you will see that all the religious agencies will work for peace and promulgate the oneness of humankind.  ABU0016

After affirming the oneness of God and acknowledging what His Prophets and Messengers brought, and their Seal Muhammad - peace be upon him - His Messenger whom He adorned with the crown of "But for thee" and the mantle of the Seal, and his family and companions  BH06492

Arise to serve the Cause of God in complete unity - that is, be occupied with His mention, His praise and the promotion of His Cause. Any matter that today becometh the cause of someone turning away or the source of grief is not acceptable in the sight of God.   BH00315

We have no objection to or quarrel with religions. We simply call all to the oneness of humanity. But all people must drink from the fountain of Baha'u'llah's teachings so that this war and strife and conflict and tribulation may be removed from among humanity.  AB07457

"All the great Teachers are from God, and teach the same thing; the differences in the results which have followed from their teachings have been due to the varieties of character-the degrees of ignorance or knowledge, of materiality or spirituality-of mankind."  ABU1046

Baha'o'llah states that Mohammed was a prophet of God, that Christ was the word of God and Moses the Friend of God. He affirms the principles, the spirit, the reality of each religion, giving lordly and abiding arguments and never indulging in vague sentiments.   ABU0461

All these houses of different names - Church, Mosque, Synagogue, Pagoda, Temple are no other than the Houses of prayers. What is there in a name? Man must attach his heart to God and not to a building. He must love to hear the name of God no matter from what lips.   ABU0967

All the peoples have a fundamental belief in common. Being one, truth cannot be divided, and the differences that appear to exist among the nations only result from their attachment to prejudice. If only men would search out truth, they would find themselves united.  ABU0091

The divine religions must be the cause of oneness among men, and the means of unity and love; they must promulgate universal peace, free man from every prejudice, bestow joy and gladness, exercise kindness to all men and do away with every difference and distinction.   AB03928

Baha'u'llah spread the Cause of Christ and opened the book of the Christians and Jews. He removed the barriers of names. He proved that all the divine Prophets taught the same reality and that to deny One is to deny the Others, for all are in perfect oneness with God.  ABU0147

All prophets are messengers from God and all ways lead to him and all have borne fruit. All reverence and gratitude should be given to the prophets of the past. That whenever we found good or heard of it, we were to rejoice and accept it; that all religions were of God.  ABU0715

He asked what caused Turkey's weakness. I said it was due to the existence of different religions. He asked what the remedy was. I said, "All the religious leaders of the Ottoman and Islamic sects should gather in Istanbul and discuss agreement and unity on one religion."  ABU0431

The teachings of Baha'u'llah are like the rays of the sun - they illuminate East and West, quicken the dead souls, unite different religions, and are proof of the oneness of God, for they gather all the peoples of the world beneath the tabernacle of the oneness of humanity  AB04069

First consider the people of religions - if religious people are followers of God and obedient to divine teachings, the divine teachings command that there should never be prejudice, for the divine teachings are explicit that human beings must deal with each other with love  ABU0285

To the adept this is the same springtime, the same fountain, the same garden, the same Artist and the same Universal teacher. For he lays the same emphasis on the spiritual life; he intensifies the true objects of all the past religions and gives to each their real perspectives.   ABU0969

When Christians act according to the teachings of Christ, they are called Baha'is. For the foundations of Christianity and the religion of Baha'u'llah are one. The foundations of all the divine Prophets and Holy Books are one. The difference among them is one of terminology only.   ABU0086

Look to the foundation of divine religions, which is one reality, and the principles of the Manifestations of Truth, which are one principle - not the branches that pertained to the requirements of times and ages, nor the traditions that have caused difference and conflict among people  ABU1826

Those people who have harkened to the teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH-Hindus, Mohammedans, Christians, Zoroastrians, Buddhists, Jews-such people have discarded their past rancour and are associating with the utmost love and unity... All these different faiths are merging into one great faith.  ABU0055

Differences have arisen because of this, causing clouds and darkness to overshadow again the glorious luminary of Reality. When the mists and darkness of superstition and prejudice are dispersed, all will see the Sun aright and alike. Then will all nations become as one in its radiance.   ABU0733


all the great religions are as phases passed through, educational bridges to the last, the Religion of Unity. Our Religion of Unity was not given to us in order to dissolve, to destroy the previous religions, but in order to add to them, to fulfil them and to fuse them into a higher unity.   ABU0193

For in all churches and mosques there is the remembrance of God. All are specifically established for praising the Truth and educating and bringing together humanity. All peoples worship one God; none worship Satan. If one has an eye to reality, what difference is there between these temples?   ABU1075

Since the foundation of divine religions is one - it is reality, and reality does not admit multiplicity or division - therefore complete harmony and unity will be established among all religions. Divine religion will appear in the utmost perfection and beauty in the assemblage of the human world.  AB00279


Every movement which tends to bring about even the partial Unity of humanity is praiseworthy and commendable. However were it possible to bring about those ideal forces which shall make the realization of a world Conference of religions, it shall yield immensely greater results to the human race.   ABU0839

The Blessed Beauty has provided the means for the unification of the world of humanity and has removed religious and social conflicts. No longer is a person to be defined by such labels as Jewish or Christian. All are embraced by the effulgence of the Faith, and all dwell beneath the tabernacle of unity.   ABU3293

Religion is the foundation of spiritual unity, unity of thought, unity of sentiment, unity of customs, and spiritual bonds between all souls, so that minds and souls may develop through divine education, investigate reality, attain the lofty stations of human perfection, and establish divine civilization.  AB00279

The divine religions They established have one foundation; Their teachings, proofs and evidences are one; in name and form They differ, but in reality They agree and are the same. Likewise, the divine religions of the holy Manifestations of God are in reality one, though in name and nomenclature they differ.   ABU0149

O Ahmad! Praise be to God that thou hast attained unto the word of unity and hast testified to that whereunto God, exalted be His glory, hath testified - that blessed and goodly Word "There is none other God but God," at which the limbs of the idolaters and transgressors have trembled and continue to tremble.   BH01224


I have no doubt that much good will be accomplished and many misunderstandings will be removed if the Musulmans attend the churches of the Christians with reverence in their hearts and sincerity in their souls and likewise the Christians may go to the Mohamadan Mosques and magnify the Creator of the universe.   ABU0967

He has not tied together the iron bars - the religions of the world - with the rope of indulgent tolerance or ordinary amenities of human necessity which are liable to break at any time - but with the fire of the love of God He has melted them first and then casting them into one mould of spiritual brotherhood.   ABU1941

Know thou that I am a servant who hath believed in God and the Manifestations of His Self and the Daysprings of His Cause and the Treasuries of His Revelation and the Repositories of His Knowledge and the Dawning-places of His Guidance and the Outpourings of His mercy and the Clouds of His bounty unto the worlds.  BH00032

When the devotees of religion cast aside their dogmas and ritualism, the unification of religion will be in sight, and the realities of the holy books will become unveiled. In these days misunderstandings are rife, but when these misunderstandings and blind imitations are relinquished, the sun of reality shall dawn.  ABU0018

The foundations of the divine religions are one. If we investigate these foundations, we discover much ground for agreement, but if we consider the imitations of forms and ancestral beliefs, we find points of disagreement and division; for these imitations differ, while the sources and foundations are one and the same.  ABU0118

The fundamental basis of the divine religions, having been forgotten, is being reformed and reestablished by the Bahai movement. It is a reformation. The basis of the divine religions is one. It is not multiple, for reality is one and not multiple. The fundamental basis of all divine religions is one and the same. In that sense the Bahai movement is not a new religion.   ABU0365


The Manifestation of the Essence of God is like unto the sun, which has different risings. The dawning places are different but the sun is always the same. The lamps are different but the light is one. Consider with the eye of reality. The aim of life is reality, and reality is one. Reality does not accept multiplicity.  ABU0003

These Bahai Jews acknowledge Mohammed also, and are able to offer rational and traditional proofs regarding his prophethood. Religious tolerance of this kind would have been hitherto impossible and inconceivable but during this century of radiance such progressive thought is made possible by the dispensation of Baha'o'llah.  ABU0454

He sent forth the Messengers and revealed the Books as a token of His grace, and commanded them to guide His servants that they might manifest that which would exalt them in all His worlds, until the divine ordinances were completed through that which was revealed in the Qur'an to the Seal of the Prophets and the Chosen Ones.   BH00851

For instance, Christ appeared; the Jews believed in him; the Romans, Greeks, Anglo-Saxons believed in him. So he gathered all again and made them one, made them Christians. The religions that were before Christianity were abolished. This was done through the Word of God. It cannot be done through the power of the philosophers.  ABU0508

Therefore, it is evident that the Prophets of God have come to unite the children of men and not to disperse them, to establish the law of love and not enmity. Consequently, we must lay aside all prejudice -- whether it be religious, racial, political or patriotic; we must become the cause of the unification of the human race.   ABU0187

The foundations of the divine religions are one and the same. The differences which have arisen between us are due to blind imitations of dogmatic beliefs and adherence to ancestral forms of worship. Abraham was the founder of reality. Moses, Christ, Muhammad were the manifestations of reality. Baha'u'llah was the glory of reality.  ABU0002

The Lord of Hosts has kindled such a flame that it has brought Jews, Christians, Muslims, Zoroastrians and Babis - nay, all the peoples and religions of the world - beneath one tent. Now people from all religions have entered beneath the shadow of the Cause of God, and all arise in gatherings of unity, harmony, love and fellowship.  AB01851

Abraham was the servant of this Cause; Jesus Christ sacrificed himself for it; Muhammed, the prophet, promulgated this teaching; his highness, the Bab, lighted this candlestick; his holiness Baha'o'llah manifested this brilliant star. This is the original purpose, the essential part of the Cause, the reality of the teachings of God.  ABU0691

There is no difference...the past is like the future. This is what Christ said: "Compare my days with those in the future." His Holiness Muhammad said that the past and future are like a pair of shoes....the same way the days of Moses are like my days. Muhammad said one shoe is like the other. These can be compared one to the other.  ABU0570

That foundation which was meant to be the underlying principle of all the Prophets, that foundation which Christ Himself laid, that is the basis of the oneness of the world of humanity. That foundation is Universal Love. That foundation is Universal Peace amongst the nations. That foundation is Universal Peace amongst the countries.  ABU0048

The purpose of religion as revealed from the heaven of God's holy Will is to establish unity and concord amongst the peoples of the world; make it not the cause of dissension and strife. The religion of God and His divine law are the most potent instruments and the surest of all means for the dawning of the light of unity amongst men.  BH00053

O Shaykh! This unity with whose mention you occupy yourselves night and day, and because of which you consider yourselves rich and independent - if God, exalted be His grandeur, were to erase this unity or roll up its carpet and place it under the throne, what then would you have and with what remembrance would you occupy yourselves?   BH00645

The point is that differences lie in the branches, but the foundation and basis of divine religions is one. Therefore every Prophet gave news of the following Prophet, and every subsequent Prophet confirmed the previous Prophet. All the Prophets were at peace with one another and loved one another. So why should their followers differ?  ABU0028

Thus it is that at the time of every Manifestation, all on earth stand equal before God. Whoever from any group believes becomes counted before God among the people of faith, affirmation and the exalted ones. And whoever does not attain to faith is and will be reckoned among the people of denial, the debased, the rejectors and negation.  BH00097

We believe in what hath been sent down unto Us in this Tablet, and in what was sent down unto Moses and Jesus, and in what was sent down unto Muhammad the Messenger of God, and in what was sent down unto 'Ali before Nabil from holy and exalted verses. We make no distinction between any of them, and We, verily, are on a straight path.   BH01824

Religion should be the cause of fellowship and unity among mankind, but misunderstandings have made it the cause of discord, dissension, sedition and hatred. Religion is a remedy destined to be the means of healing unto the nations, but the misapplication of that remedy has caused disease, resulting in the greatest dissension and discord.   ABU0035

The teachings of Christ have been promulgated by Baha'u'llah, Who has also revealed new teachings applicable to present conditions in the world of humanity. He has trained the people of the East through the power and protection of the Holy Spirit, cemented the souls of humanity together and established the foundations of international unity.  ABU0019

Praise be to God that we have presented the Proofs of God and His Manifestations to the inhabitants of the East and the West. We have rend asunder the veils of misunderstanding from amongst the religions and nations. In many churches and innumerable gatherings we demonstrated that Abraham, Moses, Christ and Mohamad were the prophets of God.   ABU1230

For example the strict adherents of the present day religions consider each other as infidels and contaminating, as apostates in the sight of God and man, as deserving to be thrown to the bottom of hell and in the jaws of Satan; but Baha'u'llah addressing the world of humanity says:- 'Ye are the leaves of one branch and the fruits of one tree'  ABU1561

The religions of the world may abandon all those doctrines which are mere dogmas and traditions and retain only what is absolute and fundamental. In this manner they shall discover that the object of all the past religions has been no other than the inculcation of reality, and absolute reality is never susceptible to multiplication or disunion.   ABU0839

His Holiness Baha'o'llah likened the religions of the world to musical instruments, each divine messenger having been sent to sound a different key, but the instruments have become out of tune and discord has resulted. Therefore Baha'o'llah brought a new musical instrument and put it into our hands, saying: "Play on this. It includes all notes, all harmony."  ABU0792

Fifthly: The Reality of the divine Religions is one, because the Reality is one and cannot be two. All the prophets are united in their message, and unshaken. They are like the sun; in different seasons they ascend from different rising points on the horizon. Therefore every ancient prophet gave the glad tidings of the future, and every future has accepted the past.  ABU0257

Therefore we must abandon all these traditions which are decayed and old and are like ancient bones. If we investigate reality, we will all unite and no conflict will remain, no strife will persist. Let us all seek fellowship with one another. If these dark clouds of tradition and prejudice disperse, the Sun of Reality will shine forth with utmost radiance and warmth.  ABU0039

Although the religions of God undergo change and transformation yet the primal objects are immutable. The original aim of the divine religion is the moral instruction of the world of humanity, the perfection, the illumination and the spirituality of the world of humanity. These are some of those things which are not changed, are not abrogated and secure in every religion.   ABU0538

The unity which is productive of unlimited results is first a unity of mankind which recognizes that all are sheltered beneath the overshadowing glory of the All-Glorious, that all are servants of one God; for all breathe the same atmosphere, live upon the same earth, move beneath the same heavens, receive effulgence from the same sun and are under the protection of one God.   ABU0129

We explained these one by one, and that religious leaders must abandon these ignorant prejudices and modern imitations. They must grasp the foundation of divine religion, which is universal peace and the unity of humankind. All the Prophets were sent for the sake of affection between people, not affliction. They came for unity, not division. They were sent for love, not hatred.  ABU0357

The holy Manifestations Who have been the Sources or Founders of the various religious systems were united and agreed in purpose and teaching. Abraham, Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Jesus, Muhammad, the Bab and Baha'u'llah are one in spirit and reality. Moreover, each Prophet fulfilled the promise of the One Who came before Him and, likewise, Each announced the One Who would follow.   ABU0027

Today, the Religion of God and the Faith of God is this: that the diverse religions and manifold ways should not be made the cause of enmity. These principles and laws, these firmly-established paths, have proceeded from one Source and shone forth from one Dayspring. These differences have appeared in response to the requirements of the time, the age, and the centuries and epochs.   BH00272

Today in the Orient those souls from amongst the various sects, religions and nations who have accepted the teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH are cemented together with the power of affinity and love. Were you to enter any of their conferences in the Orient you would behold the Mussulmans, Buddhists, Jews, Christians and Zoroastrians associating together in a spirit of unity and brotherhood   ABU0058

For example, the Torah explicitly states that all humans are God's creation and are under the Lord's protection, not Satan's creation. The Gospel explicitly states that God's sun shines upon both the obedient and the disobedient alike. And in the Qur'an it states: "No imperfection canst thou see in the creation of the God of Mercy." This is the foundation of God's holy Manifestations.  AB00269

Your God is One God. There is no God but He, the Mighty, the Best Beloved. He it is Who hath sent forth the Messengers from His presence, that ye should worship none but God, for all Temples speak of God and through Him. And He it is Who hath sent down the Books from His presence, that ye should associate naught with God, your Lord, and that ye should be assured of the signs of God.  BB00080

The Prophets of God have been inspired with the message of love and unity. The Books of God have been revealed for the upbuilding of fellowship and union. The Prophets of God have been the servants of reality; Their teachings constitute the science of reality. Reality is one; it does not admit plurality. We conclude, therefore, that the foundation of the religions of God is one foundation.   ABU0052

My purpose is that perchance you may illumine the world of humanity; that all men may unite in perfect love and friendship; that religious prejudices, national prejudices, race distinctions, all may be completely abandoned. The religions of today consist of dogmas. Because these dogmas differ from each other, discord and even hatred is manifest. Religion must be the basis of all good fellowship.   ABU0292

The great unity of thought transformed humanity and created a new world. Again, after a time, all this was forgotten by the people. The teachings of God no longer influenced their lives. His prophecies and commandments became fainter and were finally obliterated from their hearts, and tyranny and thoughtlessness once more prevailed. Baha'u'llah then came and once more renewed the foundation of Faith.   ABU1202

Now, under the banner of the oneness of humanity all people of all creeds should turn away from prejudice and become friends and believers in all the Prophets. As Christians believe in Moses, so the Jews should believe in Jesus. As the Muhammadans believe in Christ and Moses, so likewise the Jews and the Christians should believe in Muhammad. Then all disputes would disappear, all then would be united.  AB01160

The essential ordinances of religion were the same during the time of Abraham, the day of Moses and the cycle of Jesus. Inasmuch as the essential reality of the religions is one and their seeming variance and plurality is adherence to forms and imitations which have arisen, it is evident that these causes of difference and divergence must be abandoned in order that the underlying reality may unite mankind.   ABU0137

Most great it is, yet should a soul become illumined with the light of unity, he would see all else but God as non-existent and count it as nothingness, and would regard himself as transcending all the peoples of the world. Names would no longer hold him back from reality and meaning. The ranks and multitudes of nations and the might of the world would not prevent the men of this field from turning towards Him.  BH00037

The differences among the religions of the world are due to the varying types of minds. So long as the powers of the mind are various, it is certain that men's judgements and opinions will differ one from another. If, however, one single, universal perceptive power be introduced -- a power encompassing all the rest -- those differing opinions will merge, and a spiritual harmony and oneness will become apparent.   AB00131

This was His announcement; this was His promise of the oneness of the world of humanity. Anathema and execration were utterly abrogated. He said, "It is not becoming in man to curse another; it is not befitting that man should attribute darkness to another; it is not meet that one human being should consider another human being as bad; nay, rather, all mankind are the servants of one God; God is the Father of all."  ABU0043

Then indeed these brilliant stars from the horizon of reality were in harmony and united and agreed, and each predecessor gave glad tidings of each successor, and each successor confirmed the prophethood of each predecessor. So why do you, O people, differ and dispute and quarrel when you have a good example in these divine manifestations and merciful dawning-places and recipients of revelation, the divine company?   ABU0168

There may be a light in a room, but it merely sheds light in that room. There may be many lights, with coloured bulbs of various hues and shades. But the source of all those lights is the same--and there must be sources; it is the dynamo that is hidden from sight. So it is with all the religions. They sparkle here and there in various colours--but there is but one source for them all, just one Light, and that is God. Self-seeking preachers and teachers have wandered far from that Real Light. And it is the Light that we now seek in the real truth. Men have wandered far from the teachings of Christ, Buddha, the Jewish prophets and all of the others. Ours is not a new religion, it is the very old one; we desire to unite all forms in their original purity. ABU0526

Your very deeds are your paradise in God's good-pleasure, and your fire in that which is other than His good-pleasure, if ye would but briefly ponder your actions. Though thou rememberest after the matter hath been decreed what was revealed in the Book whose verses have been perfected by the All-Knowing, the Exalted, the Sublime, thou shalt find no way to that which God hath witnessed except if thou desirest to be among the guided ones.  BB00003

The Blessed Beauty gathered all peoples under the shadow of His wings of grace, consoled them all, and showed kindness to all. Therefore His Cause is the mercy of all worlds, and His Manifestation is the cause of salvation for all on earth and the joy of all nations. He removed the decree of the sword, and in place of the sword established true love. He abolished hatred and estrangement, and established affection and attraction among all.  ABU0202

The foundation of the Divine teaching is this unity and harmony. Moses strove for unity among men; the Christ did all to promote this understanding, and Muhammad proclaimed the necessity of this union. The Buddha also worked for the same great goal. The Gospel, the Qur'an, and all Holy Writings are the basis for this unity. The foundation of the religions of God is one; the faith of God is one: to bring between men love and understanding.   ABU1703

The fundamental question is the unification of religious belief. All religion has the same foundation. It is not necessary to lower Abraham to raise Jesus. It is not necessary to lower Jesus to proclaim Baha'o'llah. We must spread the Truth of God wherever we behold it. The essence of the question is that all these Great Messengers came to raise the Divine Standard of Perfections. All of them shine as stars in the same heaven of the Divine Will.  ABU0026

One of the teachings of Baha'o'llah relates to the unification of religion. Religion should be a bond to connect the hearts of men. It should be a cause of the illumination of the human world. It should be a center of attraction to the hearts. It should be a channel for the mercy of God. If it prove to be a cause of discord, enmity and bloodshed, then irreligion would be preferable, because religion should be a door to the knowledge and love of God.  ABU0045

The hope is that this gathering will investigate truth and cast aside all traditions in order to discover the reality of divine religions, and that the religion which today is the cause of the life of the world, the luminosity of this century, and the cause of the unity of the human world, will become evident with utmost clarity - so that the foundation of differences may be demolished and all religions may find harmony and gather at a single point.  AB03271

Do not question the practicability of this, and be not astonished. It has been accomplished and effected in Persia. In that country the various religionists have conjoined in investigating reality and have united in complete fellowship and love... Furthermore, those souls who have followed Baha'u'llah and attained this condition of fellowship and affiliation are Muslims, Jews, Christians, Zoroastrians, Buddhists, Nestorians, Sunnites, Shiites and others.  ABU0023

Every sect and community has gathered around itself certain imitations of Reality in ceremonies and forms, and as these imitations differ, contentions follow. Each division is encompassed with thick clouds through which the Sun of Reality cannot penetrate. If these divisions should forget the differences in imitations and seek for the underlying Reality, all would be united and agreed and fellowship would be established between the organizations of mankind.   ABU0607

"Consider how the religions of God served the world of humanity! How the religion of Torah became conducive to the glory and honor and progress of the Israelitish nation! How the breaths of the Holy Spirit of His Holiness Christ created affinity and unity between divergent communities and quarreling families! How the sacred power of His Holiness Muhammad became the means of uniting and harmonizing the contentious tribes and the different clans of Peninsular Arabia"   AB00094

Were We not to counsel you in the Book of God, how would you comprehend God's Cause until the next Resurrection? And were We to send down knowledge in the Book and manifest deeds among you, how would those who come after you understand? Verily, in every Dispensation God desireth that all should enter beneath the shade of His verses and that those souls who worship not God, their Lord, should perish. This is God's way in every Dispensation, would ye but understand it.  BB00034

This Cause acknowledges the truth of all the Books and all the Manifestations of God. The heavenly teachings are composed of two kinds of commandments. One kind is concerned with spiritual verities, with the perfections and virtues of the world of humanity. These commandments never change or alter. Each of the Books and the Prophets was the promulgator of these principles upon which all the religions are based, hence the foundation of all the divine religions is one.  ABU1969

All the Manifestations of God came with the same purpose, and they have all sought to lead men into the paths of virtue. Yet we, their servants, still dispute among ourselves! Why is it thus? Why do we not love one another and live in unity? It is because we have shut our eyes to the underlying principle of all religions, that God is one, that He is the Father of us all, that we are all immersed in the ocean of His mercy and sheltered and protected by His loving care.  ABU0502

It is fitting that in such an age all nations unite, all religions become united, and regions become one region, for humanity is like one tree and religions and nations are like its branches and twigs. Therefore they must be in utmost harmony, be educated by the heat of the Sun of Truth, and grow and develop through the rain of bounty until the human world becomes illumined and divine, and perfect unity is achieved between people and unity between nations is realized.  ABU0729

"He promulgated the fundamental oneness of religion. He taught that reality is one and not multiple, that it underlies all divine precepts and that the foundations of the religions are, therefore, the same. Certain forms and imitations have gradually arisen. As these vary, they cause differences among religionists. If we set aside these imitations and seek the fundamental reality underlying our beliefs, we reach a basis of agreement because it is one and not multiple."  ABU0030

Nothing is so true as the oneness of the world of humanity. Verily it is the foundation of the divine religions. But a thousand times alas! religions have discarded this fundamental basis, and have held to certain traditional dogmas, which have resulted in dissension and warfare, which was not the intention of religion. Religion should be a remedy for the afflictions of humanity, but it has fallen into the hands of unskilled physicians and the results have been disastrous.  ABU0219

There can be no doubt whatever that the peoples of the world, of whatever race or religion, derive their inspiration from one heavenly Source, and are the subjects of one God. The difference between the ordinances under which they abide should be attributed to the varying requirements and exigencies of the age in which they were revealed. All of them, except a few which are the outcome of human perversity, were ordained of God, and are a reflection of His Will and Purpose.   BH05684

For example, had the dwellers in the Dispensation of Jesus beheld the Apostle of God with the eye of Jesus, they would have recognized none other than Him, and would have seen the followers of the Apostle of God exactly as the followers of Jesus, and not one of the dwellers in that Revelation would have remained veiled in this Revelation. Likewise observe from before Jesus unto the beginning that hath no beginning, and similarly after Muhammad unto the end that hath no end.  BB00005

Religions are many, but the reality of religion is one. The days are many, but the sun is one. The fountains are many, but the fountainhead is one. The branches are many, but the tree is one. The foundation of the divine religions is reality; were there no reality, there would be no religions. Reality is one; it does not admit multiplicity or division. Reality is as the sun, which shines forth from different dawning points; it is as the light, which has illumined many lanterns.   ABU0178

That the divers communions of the earth, and the manifold systems of religious belief, should never be allowed to foster the feelings of animosity among men, is, in this Day, of the essence of the Faith of God and His Religion. These principles and laws, these firmly-established and mighty systems, have proceeded from one Source, and are rays of one Light. That they differ one from another is to be attributed to the varying requirements of the ages in which they were promulgated.  BH00005

Concerning what you wrote about those two eminent scholars seeking to uncover mysteries - they have surely become informed of the truth of all matters, the conduct and behavior of the friends, the foundation of the path of the Most Merciful, the oneness of mankind, the reconciliation of the hearts of all peoples, the unification of all sects and religions, sacrifice in the path of God, goodwill and kindness toward all humanity, and respect and consideration for religious leaders.  AB08225

"All the divine Manifestations have proclaimed the oneness of God and the unity of mankind. They have taught that men should love and mutually help each other in order that they might progress. Now if this conception of religion be true, its essential principle is the oneness of humanity. The fundamental truth of the Manifestations is peace. This underlies all religion, all justice. The divine purpose is that men should live in unity, concord and agreement and should love one another."  ABU0145

The foundations of the religions of God are one. The teachings of God are one. His Holiness, Abraham, was the head of reality, for the religion of God is ever reality. His Holiness, Moses, was the head of reality. His Holiness, Christ, was the founder of reality. His Holiness, Zoroaster, was the founder of reality. His Holiness, Buddha, was the founder of reality. His Holiness, Baha'u'llah, was the founder of reality. All the present religions are fundamentally one, and that is reality.  ABU0021

About sixty years ago the greatest enmity and strife existed among the various peoples and religious denominations of Persia. Throughout the world generally war and dissension prevailed. At this time Baha'u'llah appeared in Persia and began devoting Himself to the uplift and education of the people. He united divergent sects and creeds, removed religious, racial, patriotic and political prejudices and established a strong bond of unity and reconciliation among varying degrees and classes of mankind.  ABU0051

But in contrast, you Baha'is know that the foundation of God's religion is to consort with all religions in spirit and fragrance. Baha'u'llah proclaimed the oneness of mankind, abolished the law of the sword, and addressed all humanity saying: Ye are all the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch. He declared all people to be God's sheep, and the Lord their kind Shepherd who shows bounty and favor to all His flock, nurturing, sustaining and protecting them all beneath the shade of His mercy.  ABU0328

For knowledge is the discoverer of reality, and all divine religions are reality itself. But now the human world is drowned in the sea of traditions, and these traditions are mere superstitions. Knowledge will uproot these traditions and disperse these dark clouds that veil the Sun of Reality. The reality of divine religions will become manifest, and since reality is one, all divine religions will become united. No differences will remain, conflict and contention will utterly cease, human unity will become evident.  ABU0121

Every discerning observer will recognize that in the Dispensation of the Qur'an both the Book and the Cause of Jesus were confirmed. As to the matter of names, Muhammad, Himself, declared: I am Jesus. He recognized the truth of the signs, prophecies, and words of Jesus, and testified that they were all of God. In this sense, neither the person of Jesus nor His writings hath differed from that of Muhammad and of His holy Book, inasmuch as both have championed the Cause of God, uttered His praise, and revealed His commandments.  BH00002

Look how Abraham strove to bring faith and love among the people; how Moses tried to unite the people by sound laws; how the Lord Christ suffered unto death to bring the light of love and truth into a darkened world; how Muhammad sought to bring unity and peace between the various uncivilized tribes among whom he dwelt. And last of all, Baha'u'llah has suffered forty years for the same cause -- the single noble purpose of spreading love among the children of men -- and for the peace and unity of the world the Bab gave up his life.  ABU0503

The purpose of all the divine religions is the establishment of the bonds of love and fellowship among men, and the heavenly phenomena of the revealed Word of God are intended to be a source of knowledge and illumination to humanity. Each of the holy Manifestations announced the glad tidings of His successor, and each One confirmed the message of His predecessor. Therefore, inasmuch as They were agreed and united in purpose and teaching, it is incumbent upon Their followers to be likewise unified in love and spiritual fellowship.   ABU0057

All the divine Prophets were Manifestations of truth. Moses proclaimed the truth, Christ promoted the truth, Muhammad established the truth, all the divine ones proclaimed the truth, and Baha'u'llah raised high the banner of truth. All holy souls who came to the world were lamps of truth. Truth is the oneness of the human world, truth is love between human beings, truth is the proclamation of justice, truth is divine guidance, truth embodies human virtues, truth is equality among humankind, truth is the illumination of the human world.  ABU0113

When Baha'u'llah appeared from the East, He dispelled all these vain imaginings. He bestowed new life upon souls, cast a celestial radiance into hearts, expanded minds, and revealed mighty teachings. So much so that today Baha'is who were formerly Jewish, Christian, Zoroastrian, Muslim, and Buddhist all associate with one another in the utmost fellowship, such that if you were to enter their gathering, you would not know which had been Christian, which Jewish, which Persian, which Muslim. All consort with one another in the utmost fellowship and love  ABU0032

It is evident then that we must not look at the dawning places but at the real sun. The dawning places vary, but the sun does not vary. In whatever point it may appear it is always the sun. Now all the followers of the great religions of the world are veiled because they are looking at the old dawning places and are not watching for the coming of the Sun. Your lover must love you, not your house. If he really loves you he will recognize you in whatever house you may appear; but if he is attached to the house, he will not find you if you appear in a new house.   ABU0712

For nine months I traveled through the countries of America, speaking in many churches, gatherings and clubs. In many synagogues I proclaimed the oneness of humanity and called all to universal peace. I explained the foundation of divine religions, showing that their foundation is one and stems from reality - and reality admits of no multiplicity. The foundation of divine religions is love. Religion is for the education of humanity, guiding to human virtues. Its foundation is cooperation and mutual assistance. It is a heavenly foundation, a cause of connection between human beings.  ABU0154

Most of the servants are perplexed by the differences between religions, whereas these differences have been and shall continue to be the cause of the education of souls and their advancement. For divine laws are revealed according to the requirements of the time, age and epoch. Consider, for example, the differences between hours, and observe the variations between seasons. If a person of insight reflects even briefly, he will assuredly know that these differences have been and continue to be the cause of the unity of the servants and the preservation of all who dwell in the lands.  BH00230

For ye have drunk from the Living Waters while your companions remained deprived, and ye have attained the eternal bounty while your fellow believers were forbidden... For the Prophets - they who have been the Dawning-Places of divine revelation and the Daysprings of divine inspiration - there are stations which names cannot access. They are all seen as one soul, for they speak but one word and stand firm upon one cause. Blessed is he who immerseth himself in this vast ocean whose shores none hath reached, how much less its depths. This is the station of the Sun of unity and the Ocean of oneness.  BH00091

I hope, through divine grace and bounty, that such fellowship may be established among the Hands of the Cause of God as has never been witnessed from the beginning of creation, nor shall be witnessed hereafter. For this Cause is mighty, mighty indeed, and in the future the institution of the Hands will attain the utmost importance, such that all mighty affairs, both general and specific, pertaining to the Cause of God will be discussed in consultation among the Hands of the Cause of God. Consider, then, how essential are unity, accord, oneness, and unity of purpose - without these nothing is possible.  AB00254

For thirteen hundred years there has been warfare - what results have been achieved? This is sheer madness. Is God pleased with this? Is Christ pleased? Is Muhammad pleased? It is evident they are not. They praised one another. Muhammad said that Christ was the Spirit of God - this is explicitly stated in the Qur'an. He said Christ was the Word of God, and He lavished the highest praise upon the disciples and upon Mary. Likewise, Christ praised Moses, spread the Torah, and carried the fame of Moses to East and West. The point is that they were in the utmost love and fellowship with one another, yet these peoples are enemies, shedding each other's blood.  ABU0039

The divine Manifestations have been iconoclastic in Their teachings, uprooting error, destroying false religious beliefs and summoning mankind anew to the fundamental oneness of God. All of Them have, likewise, proclaimed the oneness of the world of humanity. The essential teaching of Moses was the law of Sinai, the Ten Commandments. Christ renewed and again revealed the commands of the one God and precepts of human action. In Muhammad, although the circle was wider, the intention of His teaching was likewise to uplift and unify humanity in the knowledge of the one God. In the Bab the circle was again very much enlarged, but the essential teaching was the same.   ABU0385

All the holy Manifestations of God have proclaimed and promulgated the same reality. They have summoned mankind to reality itself, and reality is one. The clouds and mists of imitations have obscured the Sun of Truth. We must forsake these imitations, dispel these clouds and mists and free the Sun from the darkness of superstition. Then will the Sun of Truth shine most gloriously; then all the inhabitants of the world will be united, the religions will be one, sects and denominations will reconcile, all nationalities will flow together in the recognition of one Fatherhood, and all degrees of humankind will gather in the shelter of the same tabernacle, under the same banner.   ABU0174

The Holy, Divine Manifestations are Unique and Peerless. They are the Archtypal of Celestial and spiritual virtues in their own age and Cycle. They stand on the summit of the Mount of vision and they foreshadow the perfections of the future humanity. For example during the Dispensation of His Holiness Moses - Peace be upon him - there was not a single human soul similar or like unto him. He overshadowed all the Holy Souls who came after him, even the hosts of the Israelitish prophets. In a similar manner all the people who lived during the cycle of His Holiness Christ - may my life be a sacrifice to Him!- were under his spiritual authority. They had no will of their own. He was the Sun and the others were the lamps.   ABU0128
He continued to reveal divine teachings and wrote numerous tablets and books, proclaiming the principles of the oneness of humanity, universal peace, and the unity of religion.  ABU3765
 
