Look not upon these Manifestations with the eye of difference, for this is not the path of those endowed with insight and understanding. Rather, He Who created you is He Who sustains you, and He Who created you is He Who causes you to die, and He Who causes you to die is He Who gives you life. No partner hath He in His work and no rival hath He in His dominion.  BB00247

By God, the True One! The Eye of God wept for Me in His seat when I was cast into the fire, and once when I was afflicted at the hands of Pharaoh, and once when I was afflicted at the hands of the Jews, and once when I was cast upon the dust in the land of Taff, and once when I was suspended in the air, and in these days when I have fallen into the clutches of the polytheists among the people of the Bayan.  BH01053


Verily, He Who hath appeared is identical with Him Who shall appear, and He Who shall appear is identical with He Who hath appeared, just as the sun that rose yesterday is identical with the sun that shall rise tomorrow.  BB00027

Whoso believeth in the Unseen in his heart and testifieth to it with his tongue, and sanctifieth it from every peer, likeness, similitude, allusion, associate, helper and equal - such a one is counted among the truly sincere. Every Prophet and Messenger hath turned towards this Unseen, as have those who circle round the Throne and behind them the denizens of the highest paradise. This is mentioned in the first station and the first pavilion and the wise Remembrance and the ancient News. And in one station We mean by the Unseen the realities of Oneness and the eternal essences who were concealed in the Manifestations of old, as ye witness and are among those who testify. In the time of Moses, the Unseen was none other than Jesus in the heaven of names, and He foretold His appearance and was hidden in His days. Likewise the Unseen in the time of the Spirit (Jesus) was Muhammad, the Messenger of God and Seal of the Prophets. Similarly the Unseen in His days was none other than 'Ali, through meeting whom the eyes of those near to God were solaced. And likewise in those days it was none other than He Whose appearance the Point of the Bayan foretold in tablets of ancient glory. We turn to Him in all matters and supplicate Him at all times and await His days as the believers await the paradise of nearness - nay, even more so, if ye be of the assured ones. Say: By God, Paradise itself is meeting Him, and the Hour is His arising amongst all created things. Therefore We say that We believe in the Most Hidden Mystery and in His Manifestations, and We turn towards them and make no distinction between Him and them, except that they are His servants and creation. BH00629


Know thou, therefore, that I am the First Adam, and I am He unto Whom the Book was sent down, and I am He Whose law was abrogated. Likewise from the First Adam unto the Seal of the Prophets, Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family. Know thou, therefore, that I am He Who hath appeared aforetime and established that religion, and all in that day act according to My laws, yet they know not.  BB00046

He is too exalted to be known through any other than Himself; rather, others are known through Him. He is too sublime for mention of truth in that station, for every truth becomes truth through Him. His similitude is that of the sun - if it were to rise and set from infinity to infinity, there would still be but one sun.   BB00662

It is He Who hath been manifest in all the Messengers, and He Who hath spoken in all the Books. He hath had no beginning, for through Him doth the beginning begin; and He hath had no end, for through Him doth the end end. It is He Who in this wondrous Cycle, which is now the thirteenth year, is known as the Point of the Bayan, and as the First Creation in the days of Adam, and as Noah in his day, and as Abraham in his day, and as Moses in his day, and as Jesus in his day, and as Muhammad the Apostle of God in His day, and the Point of the Bayan in His day, and He Whom God shall make manifest in His day, and He Whom God shall make manifest after Him Whom God shall make manifest in His day, have been known.  BB00015

And this is the meaning of the tradition concerning the Proof, wherein the Truthful One hath said: He saith: O assemblage of creatures! Whoso desireth to behold Adam and Seth, lo, I am Adam and Seth! Whoso desireth to behold Noah and his son Shem, lo, I am Noah and Shem! Whoso desireth to behold Abraham and Ishmael, lo, I am Abraham and Ishmael! Whoso desireth to behold Moses and Joshua, lo, I am Moses and Joshua! Whoso desireth to behold Jesus and Simon, lo, I am Jesus and Simon! Whoso desireth to behold Muhammad and the Prince of Believers, lo, I am Muhammad and the Prince of Believers! Whoso desireth to behold Hasan and Husayn, lo, I am Hasan and Husayn! Whoso desireth to behold the Imams from the progeny of Husayn, lo, I am the Imams one after another unto Hasan!  BB00015

And the Point of the Bayan is His Manifestation in every age and cycle - all are assured of this   BB00392

All the Manifestations of God bring the same Light; they only differ in degree, not in reality. The Truth is one.  ABU2108

Glory be from God unto the First One and unto those who resemble that One wherein naught is seen save the First One.  BB00654

Every Manifestation is the Adam of His time. (Adam means the type man, the perfect man.) There were one hundred thousand Adams before the Adam of biblical records each being the Manifestation of His own time or cycle.... 'Abdu'l-Baha says that within the last 500,000 years there have been seven universal Manifestations, the last three of whom were Melchizedek, Jesus Christ, and Baha'u'llah.   ABU3763

Each Manifestation was alike great in himself, each spoke with the same authority, each alike breathed the spirit of God. The same fundamental truth underlies the doctrines of each.  ABU1396

"We make no distinction between any of His Messengers." For their purpose is one and their mystery the same. To establish distinctions or precedence between Them is not permissible.   BH00779

The Reality of all is One. Truth is one. Religions are like the branches of one Tree. One branch is high, one is low and one in the centre, yet all draw their life from the one stem.   ABU2524

They should establish beyond a shadow of doubt that by Unity of God is meant that the Manifestations of God Who inaugurate each Dispensation are to be regarded as one soul, unique and peerless  BHU0036

It is not the personality at which we should look. The nations of the world are looking to the personality and hence they are deprived of the reality of spiritual Truth. It is as if one looked at the horizon instead of the sun, and because the sun was last seen at this horizon, should expect it to appear again at the same place. So, one horizon is that of Jesus, another that of Moses, another of Mohammed, etc. The Jews looked at the horizon of Moses. They were so much under the influence of his personality that they did not recognize Jesus when He came. If we can know the sun we do not need the limitation of horizons. Again the personality is like the chimney and the Truth is as the light. We can put the light of the lamp in another chimney and it is still the same light. We should not become attached to the chimney and put the light out of our thoughts. Consider a lover and his sweetheart. Will he love her only because of a certain costume? Nay, to appear in another garment or incognito. He must love her for herself. Even so, we must put aside the horizon, the chimney, and the costume and dispense with personality if we would know the Truth. ABU1577

The Manifestation of the Essence of GOD is like unto the sun, which has different risings. The dawning-places are different, but the sun is always the same. The lamps are different but the light is one.   ABU1406

Baha'u'llah described the Manifestations as rising-points of one Sun, meaning the Sun of Reality is one but its dawning-places and rising-points are many - that is, one Reality shining in multiple mirrors.   AB01794

He Who came upon clouds of light with the name of 'Ali is His Manifestation and His sovereignty over all the worlds. He veiled His face for numbered days, then revealed Beauty once again with His Most Glorious Name.   BH09422


We behold in their Manifestation naught but the Manifestation of God, and in their concealment naught but His concealment, did ye but know. They all are the mirrors of God, wherein naught can be seen but God's Self, His Beauty, His might and His glory  BH02874


Such as these are the great first teachers...One of the solar dawning points was Moses, another was Abraham. One of the great daysprings of the sun was His Holiness Christ. Another dawning point was Mohammed. One dawning point was the Bab, another Baha'o'llah.  ABU0022

All the Prophets of God were Manifestations of God. Moses, Jesus, Mohammed and the Bab were the four greatest prophets, because they reflected the Light of God in a greater degree than any of the others, and they left books to guide the people in the way of God.   ABU1184

In the Word of God there is still another unity -- the oneness of the Manifestations of God, Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ, Muhammad, the Bab and Baha'u'llah. This is a unity divine, heavenly, radiant, merciful -- the one reality appearing in its successive Manifestations.   ABU0129

For example, in the manifestation of the Bayan, when the Point of Truth found that you had become attached to names, therefore I informed you of their return, or their manifestation, or their resurrection, or other such terms that you might comprehend. Otherwise, the Cause in the sight of God is not as you imagine.  BB00003

Those who followed Moses accepted him as the mediator; those who followed Zoroaster accepted him as their mediator; but all the Israelites deny Zoroaster, and the Zoroastrians deny Moses. They fail to see in both the one reality. Had the Zoroastrians comprehended the reality of Zoroaster, they would have understood Moses and Jesus.  ABU0903

All the Prophets: Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad, the Bab, Baha'u'llah, are of identical stature, in Whom the same Godhead has appeared (manifested Itself) at different times as the same eternal Truth, and Who have merely adapted Themselves to the different stages of development of mankind and its capacity of understanding.  ABU0218

The example of the Sun of Truth is like the sun in the heaven - were God to cause it to rise without limit, ye would still witness but one sun. Likewise its radiance, which is the Command of the Sun of Manifestation - in all dispensations ye witness one Command. However, Its manifestations differ, and ye magnify what appears in your own dispensation.  BB00003

In the station of unity, they are one reality, as it is said: We make no distinction between any of His Messengers. Their likeness is as the sun - though its dawning-places be many, yet there is but one sun shining forth from them all. In this station, the mention of any Prophet is the mention of all; the name of Ahmad is the name of all the Prophets.  AB00940

If thou be of the inmates of this city within the ocean of divine unity, thou wilt view all the Prophets and Messengers of God as one soul and one body, as one light and one spirit, in such wise that the first among them would be last and the last would be first. For they have all arisen to proclaim His Cause and have established the laws of divine wisdom.  BH00012

The essence of prophethood is one, just as the effect of one or more lights is that of one. If you look at the lamps we find them different, but the light is the same. It is sent by GOD (exalted is His name). There is no difference between the prophets, because all of them are lightened from the same light, and all have attained through the Giver of the Light.   ABU1146

Christ was a real Shepherd. At the time of His manifestation, the Greeks, Romans, Assyrians and Egyptians were like so many scattered flocks. Christ breathed upon them the spirit of unity and harmonized them. Therefore, it is evident that the Prophets of God have come to unite the children of men and not to disperse them, to establish the law of love and not enmity.   ABU0187

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and that this is indeed 'Ali in the Most Glorious Horizon, then Muhammad in the heaven of grandeur, then the Spirit in the heaven of destiny, then He Who conversed with God in the cities of names, then the Friend in the Supreme Concourse, then Husayn in the fields of origination, then the Wronged One before God   BH08285

Despite their differences in every age and era, there is no difference among them, for they all appeared through God's command... Whoso maketh any distinction between them, or between their words, or what hath been revealed unto them, or in their conditions and deeds, even to the smallest degree, hath indeed associated partners with God and His signs and His Messengers  BH00134

Thy knowledge of that Will in each Revelation is thy knowledge of thy Lord and thy certitude in thy Creator. For that creation there is neither beginning nor end; it proceedeth from infinity unto infinity. If thou desirest God to be pleased with thee, thou must be pleased with the Thrones of Truth in every Revelation and in their exaltation according to what is ordained by them.  BB00005


These Supreme Holy Souls are Godlike in their attributes. The garments in which they appear are different, but the attributes are the same. In their real intrinsic power they show forth the Perfection of God. The Reality of God in them never varies; only the garment in which the Primal Reality is clothed is different according to the time and place of their Appearance and Declaration to the world.   ABU0107

Be fair, ye peoples of the world; is it meet and seemly for you to question the authority of one Whose presence 'He Who conversed with God' (Moses) hath longed to attain, the beauty of Whose countenance 'God's Well-beloved' (Muhammad) had yearned to behold, through the potency of Whose love the 'Spirit of God' (Jesus) ascended to heaven, for Whose sake the 'Primal Point' (the Bab) offered up His life?  BH10746

I testify that the likeness of every Manifestation is as the rising of the sun - though it rise countless times, it is one and the same sun, and though it set countless times, it is one and the same sun. Thus consider this similitude in relation to the Sun of Truth, for the First is the Last, and the Manifest is the Hidden. Naught is seen in the Thrones except their Revealer, and naught in the Chairs except their Educator.  BB00005

For example consider the dot (or point); how letters and words are folded up and hidden within the essence (huwiyyat, ipseity) and reality of a dot with perfect effacement and annihilation so that no trace can be discerned of the existence of these letters and words nor is there any differentiation between them. Rather they are completely obliterated and utterly annihilated and have no existence except in the essence (dhat) of the point.  AB00006

I testify, O Thou Who art the Lord of the whole creation, and the Desire of whosoever hath sought Thee, that, amidst Thy creatures, They resemble the sun which no matter how often it riseth and setteth is still the one and the same sun. Whoso maketh any distinction between any of Them hath truly failed to attain the ultimate purpose, and to reach the highest goal, and hath been deprived of the mysteries of unity and of the lights of sanctity and oneness.  BH01071

The supreme love and unity is witnessed in the divine Manifestations. Among Them unity is indissoluble, changeless, eternal and everlasting. Each One is expressive and representative of all. If we deny One of the Manifestations of God, we deny all. To inflict persecution upon One is to persecute the Others. In all degrees of existence each One praises and sanctifies the Others. Each of Them holds to the solidarity of mankind and promotes the unity of human hearts.  ABU0204

We have indeed heard what was decreed concerning the appearance of Muhammad, peace be upon Him and His family. There is no doubt that the appearance of the Mahdi is identical with the appearance of Muhammad in the eyes of those who look unto the Point of the Cause. Nay, it is identical with all whom God hath sent as Prophets, for all are created by God's command. This is the Origin of the Cause, which hath no beginning, unto the End that hath no end, and all stand firm through it.  BB00094

Rather, from the wondrous beginning of Thy creation until now, nothing hath been manifest from Thee except the sign of Thy Will, which Thou hast manifested in every Dispensation through the name of a Prophet, until the worlds attained unto the Day of Muhammad, Thy Beloved. Thou hast made its likeness before Thee as the likeness of the sun - if Thou shouldst cause it to rise countless times, it is still one sun, and if Thou shouldst cause it to set countless times, it is still one sun.  BB00030

This is the meaning of Muhammad's words aforetime mentioning the Prophets as being himself, for in all the Prophets there is one Command that reached unto Muhammad, the Messenger of God, and from Muhammad unto the Point of the Bayan, and from the Point of the Bayan unto Him Whom God shall make manifest, and from Him Whom God shall make manifest unto Him Who shall appear afterwards, unto an end that hath no end, even as ye may divine and be assured concerning a beginning that hath no beginning.   BB00066

At all times, Jinab-i-Haji and Aqa 'Ali have been mentioned before the Divine Presence, and without interruption the Sun of Grace has dawned and shone upon them from the horizon of favor, until certain words appeared from them which were and are contrary to God's Cause. For the Truth has risen from the horizon of eternity specifically for the unity of the world's peoples, yet from them have issued words that oppose the Will of God, as they have caused division. Let Haji himself and the others look with the eye of fairness: if every day a new Truth - that is, a new Manifestation of the complete sovereignty of the One True God - were to appear, how could the divine Cause remain firm among creation? Today one Truth appears, speaking a word, and tomorrow another Truth speaks a different word than the first. What then is the duty of the people? If we say these two words are seen with the same perspective, this is utterly remote from reason and wisdom, and people of insight would never utter such words. For among the utterances of Truth are commandments and prohibitions which all need, and in essential reality the order of the world, the preservation of existence, and the unity of all on earth depend upon and are connected to these. If every day a new Authority were to appear, all these matters would become void and ineffective, and the helpless people would have to abandon all things each day and turn to a new qiblih.  BH01043

For all the Messengers, in their essential reality, are guides to the sovereignty of His unity and His singleness, and witnesses to the dominion of His might and His oneness. Verily He, exalted and glorified be He, cannot be known in His Essence except through what the Messengers describe from His presence. And verily the Messengers, from the beginning that has no beginning unto the end that has no end - naught can be seen in them save His Primal Will, which God has made like unto the sun of heaven: though it rise from different dawning-places and set in different settings, it is but one and the same sun.  BB00005


They are the Lights Who have ever been, and will continue forever to be, kneeling before the Throne of God. In each Dispensation, They are called by different Names amongst the people, and in each Revelation, Their physical names are also changed. Yet, the names of Their inmost realities, which refer unto God, and are manifest in Their hearts- without which They could not attain the presence of God by virtue of the nearness of their inmost realities-, have always existed and will continue forever to exist. Although there are infinite names for God, yet it was through Their Names that all have received the divine effulgence.  BB00001
