One must be constrained and cling to wisdom.  AB11984

The home should be orderly and well-organized.  ABU2222

Be not the slave of your moods, but their master.  ABU3027

the affairs of the Cause are well organized and arranged  AB02355

If wisdom requireth it, let them turn with spirit and fragrance.  BH07891

Wisdom is necessary. Much wisdom is required. The friends must conduct themselves with perfect wisdom.  AB01641

Therefore, you must observe prudence. The removal of modesty and the rending of veils is not permitted.  AB01994

You must be very moderate. Consider the taste of the public. This is the best policy. Moderation, moderation.  ABU3237

Number the letters to every destination so that you may know which ones have arrived and which ones have not.  AB08386

Do not pursue this matter now. Let it remain unspoken of for the present - it will be properly resolved later.  AB09644

However, it must be carried out with wisdom, lest the heedless arise to create disorder and engage in conflict.  AB06185

as some respected individuals have extended invitations and I have made promises, and breaking promises is wrong  AB09672

whatever matter the divine friends undertake should be carried out with utmost perfection, thoroughness and order  AB01632

Since the petition was submitted to the Most Holy Court, therefore nothing is permitted except what was submitted.  BH11833

Through the power of religion must this be brought into reality, otherwise it will end in the formation of assemblies and speeches   AB00586

Just as a man who is going to deliver a lecture prepares therefore and his preparations consists of certain meditations and notations   ABU3173

They should not hasten in conducting affairs but should observe deliberation...be moderate in all affairs, and follow the most sound path  AB04335

And He said that this year or next year, whenever wisdom requireth, they may proceed...However, all must be done in accordance with wisdom  BH03180

The story shows the importance of proper order and deliberation, as demonstrated by the salesman wanting to properly measure the fabric before cutting it   ABU2328

Exercise caution that no one, of whatever type of person, becomes saddened by you. Much tact is needed, and likewise be alert and vigilant that no one causes harm.  AB09128

Send some copies of this book by post to Iran for the friends, but one volume at a time, because if you send several volumes at once the government will confiscate them.  AB01033

In any case, the main arrangement is that the graves should be separate from each other and in perfect order and arrangement with flowers and fragrant herbs around them.  AB11864

The letter extensively discusses proper planning and arrangements, referencing the Qur'anic verse about "those who manage affairs" and emphasizing the importance of proper order   AB04008

Therefore, they must stay at the Prussian hotel in the Prussian quarter of Haifa, and come to 'Akka in the morning as tourists, returning in the afternoon. Any other way would be contrary to wisdom.  AB09271

A man may give $1,000 without minding it but he should not yield even a dollar to the person who wishes to take it wrongfully, for such wrongful behavior flouts justice and disrupts the order of the world.  ABU3461

God willing, it must be maintained in the utmost order and arrangement. The most important matter is cleanliness and refinement. This important matter must be attended to with the utmost care and vigilance   AB07213

O My loved ones! In no matter should the loved ones of Truth let go of wisdom. In all conditions they should be mindful of it. It is the firm decree of God and the luminary of the heaven of divine ordinances.   BH00352

How is it possible that there should be no organization? Even in a household, if there is not organization there will be hopeless confusion. Then what about the world? What is meant is that the organization is not rigid.   ABU0685

Tea must be like this: good sugar, excellent tea, purified water, clean cup and in every way neat and organized. Otherwise, it is better not to drink it. 'What is not cared for at the beginning cannot be remedied at the end.'   ABU3127

moderation and strengthening of affairs is achieved, order and connection and protection in all matters becomes evident, preservation of rights and observation of ranks becomes clear, consideration of consequences becomes manifest  AB05912

Though it is expedient to take action, discretion in all things is among the attributes of those who are thankful. Deliberation is necessary, nay essential, so that every undertaking will be crowned with success and the desired aim achieved.  AB06595

This is the essence of the matter, but Haji Ali Akbar took it upon himself to complete this service and was unsuccessful, and this delay did not sit well with the Christian gentleman. The purpose is that these details should be known to you.   BH08778

All divine commandments are founded upon the supreme wisdom. Man should not act according to his own thoughts, nor utter a word of his own accord. For all things there is a fixed measure which none knoweth save thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the Hidden.  AB07085

As to the organization of the schools: if possible the children should all wear the same kind of clothing, even if the fabric is varied. It is preferable that the fabric as well should be uniform; if, however, this is not possible, there is no harm done.  AB00824

[The Prime Minister] Qa'im-Maqam promised to find an amicable solution and prevent further fighting. He wrote a long letter to [St.] Petersburg, and explained the critical importance that the Iranian people place in womanly virtues of chastity and honor.  ABU1211

One must deal moderately with the rebellious and transgressing souls who are outwardly religious authorities, while secretly engaging in teaching. The means for keeping the outward divines quiet is necessary and must be observed, lest their clamor be raised.  BH07039

Through his honor the master architect, be thoughtful about the work and make preparations and arrangements...exercise complete care that not even a hair's breadth deviation occurs from the original foundation, arrangement, design, geometry, measurements and dimensions.  AB04928

In that Council, let them hold fast unto whatsoever conduceth to exaltation, elevation, dignity, composure, goodly deeds, spiritual qualities, words of counsel, and the reformation of heedless souls, according to the requirements of the days, until God shall come with His command.  BH06839

"In every affair constant vigilance and attention are necessary; otherwise, no matter how perfect the organization, once negligence is crept in, it will loose its efficiency little by little. If a piece of productive farm is left to take care of itself and supervision over the farmers is slackened, it will be either abandoned or turn into a thorny-patch."  ABU1452

Please write about any news or events that arrive from anywhere, or like the late Aqa Siyyid Taqi, write a brief summary of that news on the back of the same letter and send it...Letters arrive and remain with you for several days. Among them, Mirza Jalal had sent a letter, but after he himself arrived, his letter reached us. Please be attentive in this matter.  AB08664

Say: God, verily, loveth order in all things. In all things ye manifest the order of God. Thus, if ye have a ring on your right hand, place one likewise on your left, for this is of God's order whereby ye may be strengthened. And if there be an amulet on your right arm, and none on your left, this is not of God's order. Therefore, order all your affairs according to what ye comprehend from God, and then according to what ye yourselves love.  BB00003

From that point onward, they would not give the matter a second thought, and nothing would hinder them from executing their decision. They dispensed with intermediaries, and refused to accept any vetoes. On every one of these occasions, the ministers were engaged in consultations and discussions from dusk till dawn. They would disperse at the approach of morning, having only just eaten their dinner, and on the following day they would carry out what they had put into writing.  ABU3691

Now that the world is in turmoil, let us see what will happen after this tempest; God willing, it will turn out well. These governments, without remembering the difficulties of this war, or considering its consequences, or taking into account the gravity of the situation, rush recklessly into war. Now both sides are remorseful. Had they known it would come to this, they would not have acted so rashly. This is why in all matters, whether small or great, one must consider their consequences.   ABU1831

One must strive for mental efficiency, which, combined with spiritual enlightenment, enables us to use rightly and effectively in the highest degree all the powers of mind and body. This results in a perfectly cultivated being.  ABU0064
