Yes: every soul has a beginning  ABU3611
 
In what condition is the soul before entering the body? In a state of potentiality, possessing no consciousness as we understand it.  ABU3604
 
Were the souls created as individuals before they entered the physical bodies of this world?" Abdu'l-Baha: "They existed before coming to this world, but NOT as we know personality upon this planet."  ABU3556
 
What is the form or condition of the human spirit before it becomes connected with the identity at the time of birth on this plane? [Question answered with explanation of spirit's nature]   ABU1881
 
The soul or mental intelligence awakes in the mother's womb. Spirit enters when the conscience is quickened and the soul awakes to eternal Realities.  ABU0321
 
 Verily, I say unto thee that the gifts of thy Lord are encircling thee in a similar way as the spirit encircles the body at the beginning of the amalgamation of the elements and natures in the womb; the power of the spirit begins then to appear in the body gradually and successively according to the preparation and capacity to receive that everlasting abundance.  AB08452
 
This soul is an emanation from amongst the emanations of God and a luminous ray from amongst the luminous rays of the Sun of Truth. Should the soul of man become confirmed with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, then will it become a true soul.  ABU0114
 
The soul is a divine emanation while the body is an earthly composition.   AB11515
 
The human spirit has emanated, just as speech emanates from the speaker, and become manifested in the body of man.  AB00316

It is evident that the human soul is the breaths of the All-Merciful, and the spirit of life is the divine inspirations of the All-Loving God.  AB03569

The soul in the temple of man resembleth the radiance of the sun reflected in a mirror.  AB01239
 
Q: In what condition is the soul before entering the body? A: In a state of potentiality, possessing no consciousness as we understand it.  ABU3604
 
