A commission of inquiry was dispatched from the seat of sovereignty to investigate this servant.   AB00581

The Commission of Investigation returned with a book of inquiries. The decision has not yet emerged from the council.  AB03146

Recently, a Commission of Inquiry has arrived from Istanbul. Each day, I go to the government office and they interrogate Me.  ABU3721

during the days when the Holy Land was in great turmoil due to the arrival of the Commission of Investigation, letters remained unanswered.   AB11661

We could not spread the cause of Baha'o'llah in these regions (the neighborhood of Haifa and Akka) because the Turkish government prevented us.   ABU2672

all these recent disturbances concerning the Commission of Investigation and other matters up until now have stemmed entirely from Mirza Badi'u'llah  AB09060

The commission of investigation, which was appointed by the supreme sovereign power to conduct an inquiry, by chance arrived directly at the house of the accusers.   ABU2467

These honored persons have sent a report to the Commission of Inquiry, which has resulted in the Commission's head moving with a vengeance to eradicate the Cause of God.  ABU3673

Those days were so hard that all had believed that when the Commission of Investigation returned to Constantinople 'Abdu'l-Baha's life and name would be effaced. But God did not will it.  ABU2449

until that investigating commission came and associated with the mischief-makers and was planning a great sedition when God suddenly overthrew all their schemes. All those mischief-makers were scattered - some were killed and some fled.  ABU1376

One year before Abdul Hamid was dethroned, he sent an extremely overbearing, treacherous and insulting committee of investigation. The chairman was one of the governer's staff, Arif Bey, and with him were three army commanders of varying rank.  ABU0160

Time and again, investigative committees came from the Imperial Court and subjected this servant to restrictions, interrogations and torments, inflicting severe injuries. In prison too I was surrounded by satanic spies, confined with wardens and guards.  AB00124

An investigative committee was dispatched from the seat of supreme sovereignty and, by chance, they stayed directly at the homes of the accusers and became the guests of the enemies. The accusers confirmed the contents of their petition and even added a hundredfold more.  AB11322

members of the Commission of Inquiry, who every hour ordered a more severe persecution and spread a fresh calumny and who had joined our enemies and adversaries at 'Akka with the aim of destroying and effacing us, were overtaken by the wrath of God while returning to Constantinople.  ABU2432

Owing to the false reports forwarded to the Sublime Porte, many cablegrams were sent by Abdul Hamid to the Governor of Haifa to stop progress or watch its construction. Many spies were daily busy around this building, and the slightest move on the part of any of the laborers was reported to the military headquarters.   ABU2782

"some of the unfair ones among the Covenant-breakers and officers made pure fabricated reports to His Majesty the Sultan. A committee composed of several officials was appointed to investigate. They went directly to the enemies, the helpers of the Covenant-breakers, and investigated from them, and whatever they heard they confirmed."  AB02374

This commission of investigation and oppression was on its way back to Istanbul from 'Akka when the majesty of the justice of God revolutionized all matters. Sultan 'Abdu'l-Hamid was deposed and one member of the commission was murdered, another died and two of them absconded. One of these two begged for his daily expenses from the friends in Egypt.  ABU2863

The commission has returned. There were several matters which they investigated here and prepared a report that they will present in the great city. We shall see what results it yields. However, certain strangers who had the utmost corrupt association with Mirza Muhammad Ali interfered greatly in affairs and made tremendous calumnies and accusations, though they were entirely baseless.  AB00760

Last year a number of the unfaithful, both from within and from without, both known to us and strangers, took before the Sultan of Turkey slanderous charges against these homeless exiles, bringing against us grave accusations with no basis in fact. The Government, conformably with prudence, determined to look into these charges, and dispatched a Commission of Investigation to this city.  AB00044

One day they came to me and asked me to arrange an interview for them with Baha'u'llah. I told them I could not promise them; because it is beyond my jurisdiction. Motosarraf continued his begging and importunity but Khorsheed Bay explained the truth, that because they are commanded by the authorities in Constantinople to investigate this matter they cannot quite well disobey the order.   ABU0996

Therefore, they formed a commission of investigation and sent it here, and they are now engaged in their work. Among the calumnies is that we have converted large numbers to the Baha'i Faith in these regions. But this matter is clear and evident that it is purely calumnious, and the commission has conducted deep investigations and inquiries into this and it has become clear and evident.   AB00084

That tyrannical commission perpetrated every injustice and deemed every cruelty permissible. Finally, they decided to dispatch 'Abdu'l-Baha to Fezzan, and when they communicated with Abdul-Hamid's palace, the response confirmed the royal decree for the Fezzan matter. Then as that oppressive commission of inquiry was returning to Istanbul, while still at sea, God's cannon thundered at Abdul-Hamid's palace gate, dynamite exploded, many were killed, and Abdul-Hamid fled to his palace.  AB00182

To be brief, a Commission of Investigation was appointed by the Sultan, may the glory of his reign endure. The Commission journeyed hither and immediately upon arrival betook themselves to the house of one of the accusers. They then summoned the group who, working with my brother, had prepared the accusatory document and asked them whether it was true. The group explained the contents of the document, stated that everything they had reported therein was nothing but the truth, and added further accusations. Thus they functioned at one and the same time as plaintiffs, witnesses, and judge.  AB00056

When these wicked souls arrived in 'Akka, they stretched forth the hand of transgression and, like the unclean Yazid and Walid, enacted endless violations and harm. They uprooted the foundations of justice and raised the edifice of oppression. Yet 'Abdu'l-Baha paid them no heed whatsoever and would not even consent to meet them. However much they schemed and complained, saying "We have come on behalf of His Imperial Majesty; we never expected to encounter such indifference" - despite all their reproach and rebuke, no importance was given to them. Rather, complete calm and composure were maintained, as if nothing was happening and perfect peace prevailed, even while coded telegrams would arrive constantly from the Sultan's palace, whose contents made clear their determination to either send 'Abdu'l-Baha to Fezzan, hide him in the depths of the sea, or hang him.   AB00379

The governor heard in time about my instruction to Madam Jackson and got of course very furious. He was thinking it is so easy to get this sum of money. Changing his tactics I received one day a letter from his Secretary in which he wrote, the governor is very anxious to see you enjoying the air of freedom. I did not answer. After a week I received another letter from the same gentleman saying the governor has instructed me to draw up the petition for His Imperial Majesty begging him to grant you the liberty. Again I did not answer. Then he wrote: He has ordered the petitions to be put in the envelops. I did not answer. Again he wrote: the governor is going to sign the papers and mail them tomorrow. I did not answer. Then I received his last letter telling that the governor read the petitions and wrote over the envelop 'Not to be sent.' This also I did not answer.   ABU0355

That in their first complaint they deemed me worthy of every praise, glory and honor, and ascribed to me a mighty miracle, for how is it possible for a lone, friendless, lowly and solitary captive to muster such power as to break the influence of a mighty government and establish a new administration? Whoever accomplishes such a feat deserves congratulations and highest praise. And I am also grateful for their second complaint which indicates my strength and power, nay rather is a great miracle, for while I am imprisoned I have nonetheless built a mighty fortress wherein I can withstand great naval ships - and any prisoner who manifests such power deserves commendation and highest praise. As for the third complaint, how strange! Was the government with all its spies, whose number is as the sands, asleep during these two years, or did a heavenly angel blind their eyes that they were heedless and failed to see that manifest standard waving above the heads of the tribes? And as for the fourth complaint, I am ready to sell all my properties for merely a thousand liras  ABU0243

My point is that in the midst of this commotion, I sent seventy of the believers [to Egypt], including Mirza Asadu'llah and his wife and provided them all with sufficient funds that I had borrowed from an American in Paris. My point is that I accepted a great burden [to secure the well-bring of the friends]. Then a cargo boat came to take Me. The owner of that ship is present at the gathering. I asked a number [of the friends] to assemble. [They included:] Siyyid 'Ali-Akbar, Siyyid Yahya, Mirza Asadu'llah, Aqa [Muhammad-]Rida [Qannad Shirazi] and Aqa [Mirza] Mahmud [Kashi]. I then asked them to consult on the situation, since the boat was ready to take Me. These honored personages sat and consulted. Unanimously, they concluded that this departure was the best way out and that I should accept it. Included in their number was also this Aqa Mirza Haydar-'Ali. After they informed Me of their unanimous decision, I replied, "No, this would not be good for the Cause. I must do what exalts the Faith." The Commission of Inquiry had not yet reached Istanbul when God's cannon fired and all these people were dispersed. Two hundred people were killed near the mosque [in Istanbul]. When the illustrious personages [i.e. the Commission members] reached Istanbul, they were told that other matters had taken priority.   ABU0533

In brief, the Covenant-breaker and a group have formed a consultative body and united in calumny and false accusations. They have devised a scheme and stirred up such dust as would lead to the obliteration and destruction of 'Abdu'l-Baha. They have prepared a petition filled entirely with lies and calumnies, including that this servant raised the banner of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" in this land, proclaimed it in city and village, called people to gather under this banner, incited rebellion and revolt against the government, built a fortress on Mount Carmel, erected a great edifice in Haifa, formed alliances with foreign military leaders, offered gifts and favors, established a new sovereignty and religion, made the Holy Shrine a place of pilgrimage for various peoples with the purpose of dividing the manifest religion, and brought certain officials and others under the banner of the Cause. Therefore, a group of officials came to investigate, and immediately upon arrival met with the Covenant-breakers and investigated their claims. The contents of the petition were explained and detailed by the Covenant-breaker and his associates, and the investigating committee accepted it without verification and departed. The Covenant-breaker prepared a banner inscribed with "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" and secretly delivered it to them, who took it along with their investigation summary to present to His Imperial Majesty the Sultan, may God assist him in justice and benevolence. Thus there remains no hope of deliverance save through divine protection and the justice of His Imperial Majesty, for such calumnies and false accusations, endorsed by the investigating committee, will clearly have consequences beyond description.  AB00064
