But they do not understand the inner meaning.  ABU3144

The body is the word. The spirit is its meaning.  ABU3607

The miracles of Christ were spiritual teachings, not literal.   ABU3618

Though chicory appears outwardly bitter, inwardly it is most sweet  BH09523

The outer sacrifice of the sheep is a symbol of the inner sacrifice.   ABU3403

There are many souls whose inner reality differs from their outer appearance.   BH10697

"In this way both the outer and inner, the first and the last, all shall prosper"   BH08896

The letter they knew by heart, but of the life-giving spirit they understood not a word.  ABU0473

that all might behold with both outward and inward vision the lights of the Divine Beauty   BH11049

Though the outward appearance of My oppression be as fire, yet its inner reality is light.   BH08427

human words have become deprived of their true meanings and are used in metaphorical meanings  AB05298

Strive that perchance through divine assistance ye may attain unto the ocean of inner meanings.  BH10554

pass beyond that which is apparent and turn thy gaze towards the inner reality.   BH02592

Thus may the outward express the inward and the form (or letter) indicate the meaning (or reality)  AB10777

Then will the outer form correspond with the inner meaning and be entitled to the designation of Reality.  AB09507

Man has a sacred power which permits him to discover the inner significances, the reality of invisible things.  ABU0875


Christ told his followers to receive his words in the spirit - not in the letter; and so have all Manifestations.  ABU0894

This pertains to the outward realm; in the inward realm, whosoever hath acted according to the divine commandments...  BH10563

Creative letters are the beloved of God, for they are the manifest book in which the mysteries of creation are read.   ABU2918

Chapter 16 of the Book of the Divine John, it has an interpretation and inner meaning; it is not to be taken literally.  AB04048

They see the outer and not the inner, they see the various forms of lamps but not the reality of light and the mystery of light.  ABU1313

He is the Succourer of the inner and the outer, and the outer of the outer and the inner of the inner unto whatsoever God willeth   BH06739

May the Glory of God rest upon you, upon the origin of your beings and the end thereof, and upon your outer temples and inner selves.   BH11273

Whoso combineth in himself the outward and the inward, verily he hath attained unto all good from the presence of a mighty, a wise One.   BH06743

and in the inmost of the inmost essence, whoso knoweth the Point knoweth that whereof the outer letters are composed and that which brancheth forth from them.  BH08627

"As for the distinction between the inner and outer in manifestation, know that God has made for every inner an inwardness and for every outer an outwardness"   BB00318

This is the station where the outer is identical with the inner, and the inner identical with the outer. This station is beloved, and anything less is rejected.   BH08441

The wine of inner truths and meanings is delectable in any cup, be it a golden goblet or an earthen vessel. Yet surely a crystal and bejeweled cup is more refined.  AB10117

There is no concealment of its inner meaning, yet its inner meaning is beyond its outer meaning. Thus has God established it through the proof of wisdom for itself.  BB00345

All these things - the fish, the honeycomb etc, are symbols and were meant to be understood spiritually, just as the Resurrection itself was a spiritual resurrection   ABU3231


The people of Baha are souls who were not deprived of the truth by the name of successor or mirror or the like. They passed beyond the river of names and sought the ocean of meanings.   BH02239

The primary meaning of "fresh" refers to utterances that draw man closer to the Truth, that is, bring him nearer to God, while "withered" is that which removes him from His straight path  BH01895

Outwardly some individuals are refined and presentable, but in their essence they remain base. That is, externally they appear like others, but they harbor sordid intentions and designs.   ABU3143

I swear by the Sun of Utterance rising from the horizon of the prison's heaven - until the heart is freed from names it will not attain unto reality nor reach the ocean of inner meanings.   BH02015

Within the verses are all the verses of the beginning...Within the verses are all the verses of the end...Within the verses are the outward verses...Within the verses are the inward verses  BB00004

To penetrate the inner significances a mighty effort is needed." When one in reading substitutes the symbolic or spiritual title of the great ones, the human temple fades and only reality remains.  ABU1804

Although they consider the wine and bread in the church as the blood and body of Christ, yet this is but the appearance and not the reality. But the reality of Christ is the words of the Holy Spirit.   AB03738

O friends, until ye pass beyond the rivers of names ye shall not attain to the ocean of meanings. Strive that words may not become a barrier and that deeds and utterances may not turn into veils.   BH04137

There is a Persian proverb: "The outer is the expression of the inner". For instance, this lamp is the outer, the light which it contains is the inner. The outward in this case expresses what is within.  ABU2094

I hope that you may be among those veiled ones who shine like the sun in the realms of inner meaning - though outwardly concealed, yet [in reality] manifest and evident like the moon at the pole of heaven.  AB05734

What made Satan disbelieve in Adam and not worship him? It was only the outward condition of Adam which deterred Satan from believing in him. He would have worshipped him if he had looked at the Spirit in Adam.   ABU1656

Observe how an ear that perceived such a voice from thorn and thistle became unaware of the rose of truth in the garden of knowledge, the song of the nightingale of inner meanings, and the lesson of spiritual stations   AB01011

God hath permitted them both revelation and interpretation as they wish and through what means they desire, in truth and praised. We have preserved them from allusion and from that which ye were, contrary to truth, abandoned.  BB00002

Although the origin of the Tree hath been revealed in the Tablets through allusion and metaphor and indication, yet that allusion is more eloquent than explicit statement. Ponder, that perchance thou mayest find a way unto it.   BH04321

Third: That he should sit on the throne of David. It is clear that he did not have a throne: he did not have even a mat to sit on. The throne of His Holiness is a heavenly throne, not a throne which is built of gold and silver.   ABU1558

Though their outer appearance may manifest as fire, their inner reality betokens light. The realm of words does not prevent them from the lofty stations of meaning, nor do metaphorical veils conceal them from the places of truth.  BH02550

For this divine Jerusalem, at whose center lies the Holy of Holies, is the heavenly city and celestial metropolis. East and West lie in but one of its corners. Nevertheless, in the outward sense too, Israel shall gather in the Holy Land  AB03845

Know thou that the mystics who have reached the depths of the seas of grace and recognized the mysteries of the beginning in the end speak with words that have outward meanings while intending inner significances, and this is their way and custom.   BH00330

O servant! Until they pass beyond the gulf of names, they shall not attain to the ocean of inner meanings. The people of former times throughout ages and centuries were worshippers of vain imaginings, yet counted themselves among the people of unity.  BH00440

That sovereignty is earthly and not the intended meaning, for earthly sovereignty ultimately leads to the loss of both this world and the Hereafter. This sovereignty is the sovereignty of the world of inner meanings and the dominion of the highest Paradise.  AB09930

As they were looking at his body, they failed to see the light shining within it. But those who looked to the spiritual and the real existence of the Spirit in Christ, firmly believed in him. We must not look at the lantern but at the light--the candle inside.   ABU1656

Therefore, we say that these verses indicating the disobedience of Adam, peace be upon him, or the error of certain Prophets, are allegorical verses, not decisive ones, and they have an interpretation in inspired hearts and hidden meanings with tranquil souls.  AB00134

Since some matters are in fact legends, the Manifestations of God present them in forms of truth and explain them thus, for if they were to deny well-known accepted matters, opponents would attribute it to their ignorance. Therefore these are explained in forms of truth.  ABU0175

The wisdom of this hidden mystery is that without it, the Day of Separation would not be realized, "Be ye separated this day, O ye sinners" would not be manifest, the intimate and the deprived would not be distinguished, and the truthful and false would not be set apart.   AB00353

O people! Know with clear certainty that until ye pass beyond the river of names, ye shall not attain unto the ocean of meanings. This is a word that was hidden in the treasuries of My Most Exalted Pen, and We have revealed it in truth and sent it forth with justice.   BH00573

The resurrection of the Manifestations of God is not of the body. All that pertains to Them--all Their states and conditions, all that They do, found, teach, interpret, illustrate, and ordain--is of a mystical and spiritual character and does not belong to the realm of materiality.  AB00575

In past you must not imagine that the prophets spoke things which the people could not understand. They were very well understood by their contemporaries and hearers, but as time changed terminologies changed and commentaries arose which darkened the light of the truths they taught.  ABU3078

"Christ was in reality a king; but his reign was not that of a Nimrod or a Cyrus. His was a Divine Reign. His rule penetrated to the world of the heart. The earthly reign may pass away in a handful of dust; but the Divine Reign is such that after nineteen hundred years it still remains."  ABU0401

This Revelation has not come for the implementation of outward ordinances, as has flowed from the Pen of the All-Merciful in the Bayan, but rather for the manifestation of spiritual perfections in human souls, the elevation of their spirits to enduring stations, and that which their minds can comprehend   BH00501

Such is the view that hath been expounded and considered sufficient in the literal interpretations. While confirming such interpretations, the people of truth, they who consider the hidden realities and inner significances, have carefully examined this blessed verse and unraveled therein other far-reaching meanings.  AB00447

The object of reading and reciting is to understand the inner significance of the verses and mysteries of the Book. Had reading sufficed, all the Jewish people should have acknowledged Christ but as they lacked understanding of the mysteries and the inner meanings, they were deprived of the bounty of believing in Him.  ABU2749

Although outwardly thou art prevented from hearing, yet praise be to God that thou art a keen listener to the Call of the Most Glorious Beauty and the voice of the Concourse on High. An ear is needed that can hear the song of the celestial herald; otherwise, in terms of this physical ear, even the rabbit shares it with man.  AB09488

The Supper of the Lord which His Highness the Spirit (Christ) ate with the apostles was a heavenly supper and not one of material bread and water, for material objects have no connection with spiritual objects. That heavenly food consisted of the love of God, the knowledge of God, the mysteries of God and the bestowal of God.  AB07479

You must look at their reality - that effulgent reality that illumines the horizons, that effulgent reality that makes the human world luminous, that effulgent reality that delivers souls from imperfections, that effulgent reality that brings the collective body to the highest degree of perfection - it is above human concepts.  ABU0103

For example, if we say that the raising of the dead in the time of His Holiness the Spirit meant eternal life, then we should also consider the deliverance of Israel from the sea and the drowning of Pharaoh's people as the salvation of the Israelites from the seas of error and the drowning of the Copts in the ocean of ignorance.  AB00503

Now, just as He came the first time in appearance from the womb but in reality from heaven, so will He come the second time in appearance from the womb but in reality from heaven. The conditions that have been recorded in the Gospel for the second coming of Christ are indeed the same as had been specified for His first coming, as was explained before.  AB00570

Concerning certain divine verses that have been revealed according to their outward meaning, their purpose was to encourage those souls. Moreover, all return to the divine manifestation. As long as that divine manifestation exists in every thing, it is described and mentioned with all names and attributes, and after its withdrawal becomes non-existent.  BH00004

Baha'u'llah was no exception in this respect to all other Divine Manifestations. He used symbols and metaphors, and if we would understand him, we must interpret these. But this is the day of enlightenment, and therefore his symbols will be read with the highest conception of truth, and his teachings will throw light upon those of all the former Manifestations.  ABU1462

Know that whoso taketh the outward meaning and abandoneth the inner is ignorant, and whoso taketh the inner meaning and abandoneth the outward is heedless, and whoso taketh the inner meaning while maintaining the outward meaning is a perfect sage. This is a word that hath shone forth from the horizon of knowledge - recognize its worth and value its price highly.  BH00271

For divine words are symbols, mysteries, hidden treasures. A treasure is always hidden. A mine of jewels is always concealed. For example, Christ says "I am the heavenly bread" and it is clear that Christ was not bread and did not literally come from heaven but rather came from Mary's womb. But what was meant by this bread was heavenly bounty, divine perfections.  ABU0421

By choice wine is meant at times the divine verses themselves, and at times His love - whoso drinketh thereof shall never thirst. This choice wine bestoweth life and conferreth eternal existence. In another sense, what is meant by it are the hidden pearls within the utterance of the Goal of all worlds, and its chalices are the writings revealed by the Supreme Pen.   BH00351

The divine Words are not to be taken according to their outer sense. They are symbolical and contain realities of spiritual meaning. For instance, in the book of Solomon's songs you will read about the bride and bridegroom. It is evident that the physical bride and bridegroom are not intended. Obviously, these are symbols conveying a hidden and inner significance.   ABU0523

Know thou furthermore that each letter of these sacred words hath two aspects - one turning toward the inner meaning and one toward the outer. Would that we could find attentive ears and receptive hearts that could bear to hear the realities of meaning contained within God's Book and become illumined by the lights of the suns dawning from the horizons of God's words!  BH00380

It hath been proven by argument and demonstrated by clear evidence that He cannot be described by any description save His own, nor known through any knowledge but His own. However, He hath appointed for His loved ones a spacious pavilion, and that is the confession of powerlessness and humility before the manifestations of His grandeur, His might and His sovereignty.  BH00630

The crossing of the Red Sea has a spiritual meaning. It was a spiritual journey, through, and above the sea of corruption and iniquity of Pharaoh and his people, or army. By the help of God, through Moses, the Israelites were able to cross this sea safely and reach the Promised Land (spiritual state), while Pharaoh and his people were drowned in their own corruption.   ABU2417

The people are ignorant and become greatly alarmed at any change of dress, imagining that if someone changes their clothing it will destroy the foundations. They recognize people by their garments and thus become veiled. Yet recognition of an illustrious person requires no lengthy discourse - one who recognizes the Truth will see and know it in any garment, while the veiled one remains veiled.  AB10884

The purpose of interpretation is that they should not deprive themselves of the outward meaning nor remain veiled from the intended meaning. For instance, if from the heaven of Divine Will it is revealed wash your faces, they should not interpret it to mean that the intent of washing is to wash the inner face and that it must be cleansed with the water of knowledge, and similar interpretations.  BH00013

His words have an inner door wherein lies mercy for the people of knowledge who have recognized the sublimity of his majesty and the greatness of his station, and who seek neither superiority nor corruption in the land of knowledge. Its outer meaning contains punishment for the people of ignorance and transgression who cling to its superficial meaning, thus changing God's blessing of His knowledge.   BB00307

Each sign has a special significance. Each is a symbol, requiring special interpretation. Concerning the falling of the stars: Many of the stars are larger than the sun. The sun is a million times larger than the earth, and many of the Stars are larger than the sun. How then can they fall upon the earth? It is as if a hundred thousand mountains should be placed upon a grain of mustard. These are symbols only.  ABU0459

We have veiled the Tree about which thou didst inquire, that thou mayest witness how a single leaf thereof hath overshadowed all the worlds, and that thou mayest know that the tree of opposition besides it was planted at the place of martyrdom of Husayn's head, if ye be of them that know. And in every city thereof is a leaf and branch, and thus do We inform thee through grace that thou mayest be of them that know.   BH00367

Then, know thou that the power of the Word of God is effective both in the spirit and the body, and the influence of the Spirit of God is predominant over the material, as well as the essential and spiritual. And that, verily, God is powerful in all things, and that the Signs (i.e., verses) have exoteric and esoteric (sense), and neither their outward prevents their inward, nor their inward (prevents) their outward (meaning).   AB01859

Thus the people who seek truth and inner meanings can discover the divine mysteries and become aware of the secrets of the Books of God. They know God to be the Supreme, His bounties infinite and the doors of His mercy unbarred. They believe in all the Prophets and affirm 'No difference do we make between any of them'. But those who adhere to outer meanings only, who worship outer form, cling to imitations and follow their superstitions.  ABU1619


At times we interpret this heaven as the heaven of the ancient Law, for when the heaven of God's supreme Law is raised up, that former heaven is cleft asunder by God's will, the Lord of Names. And at times we interpret it as the heaven of idle fancies, for when the heaven of that which is known is raised up by the command of our Lord, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting, the heaven of vain imaginings is rent asunder, leaving no trace in the world, by the will of the Ancient of Days, Creator of nations and Fashioner of souls.  AB00021

Know then that all the revealed books - the Torah, the Gospel, the Psalms, the Qur'an, and the divine scrolls and scriptures and the Bayan - are in complete agreement and harmony. But those who have not discovered the mysteries of the words and whose eyes are veiled by coverings cannot solve the difficulties and reconcile the perplexing expressions, for they cling to the shells and are heedless of the manifest meaning and the pure essence of that renowned meaning. For among God's words and verses are those that are clear and those that are allegorical. Those cattle-like ones know not even the clear verses, let alone the allegorical ones.   AB00085

The reality of Christ was always in heaven and will always be. This is the intention of the text of the Gospel. For while Jesus Christ walked upon the earth, He said, "The Son of Man is in heaven." Therefore, holding to literal interpretation and visible fulfillment of the text of the Holy Books is simply imitation of ancestral forms and beliefs; for when we perceive the reality of Christ, these texts and statements become clear and perfectly reconcilable with each other. Unless we perceive reality, we cannot understand the meanings of the Holy Books, for these meanings are symbolical and spiritual -- such as, for instance, the raising of Lazarus, which has spiritual interpretation.  ABU0316

