
I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed, Love's fool am I, in all the earth. They call me first among the crazed, Though I once came first for wit and worth. O Love, who sellest me this wine, O Love, for whom I burn and bleed, Love, for whom I cry and pine  --  Thou the Piper, I the reed. AB00002


Among the requirements of love and affection are trials, blame and taunts.   AB06792

"Worn from separation, all are Thine Dead from deprivation, all are Thine"   AB04828

Then remember, O my God, my exile and my ardor and my yearning and my longing.   BH05585

and hath been consumed by the fires of remoteness and the flames of deprivation  AB02142

The helpless heart laments, full of sighs and cries, Full of pain and without cure  AB06475

If it offers a sweet draught to the lip, it draws forth a cry of anguish from the soul   BH04013

I am crazy and infatuated with that Beauty and grief-stricken and heart-broken from separation.  AB03263

it has caused us to drink a bitter cup and taste deadly poison in divine love with every breath   AB03099

I am in love with both His love and His wrath indeed, And strange it is that I should love these opposites   BH02821

A world lies unconscious from the sweet wine of reunion, while these emigrants cry out for but a drop.  BH07010

the marks of thy pen indicating the burning fire of longing and complaint of the burning fire of separation   AB06873

'Cause of thy fiery wail, the heart of the world went up in flames, 'Cause of thy pain, the centre of the universe was set afire. BH02406

The lover hath no sorrow save separation, and the yearning one groweth not dispirited save through remoteness   BH08722

This is the arena of self-annihilation, of a hundred thousand acts of self-immolation, of being melted in pure love.   AB04400

The fire of separation, after the comfort of the days of union and communion, has burned the soul and melted the heart.   BH10221

this servant is engaged in remembering thy face and character, and is restless... with weeping eyes and a burning heart   AB06312

I am consumed by the fire whose ember sets ablaze all existence, and I weep tears from which all the seas find their essence.  BH00612

I am He Who consumeth the hearts of the lovers in the fire of separation and Who abandoneth them in the wildernesses of the world.  BH11759

my heart consumed by the fire of separation from Thee; and here am I, O Beloved One, my breast aflame with the fires of longing for Thee  BH04357

Bound are the heads by the lock of Thine hair, pierced the hearts by Thine anguish, Be they illiterate, insane lovers or Divine scholars  BH02867

The candle of sorrows burneth brightly and the moth of love consecrated its wings, heart and soul to the flame. It burneth, its heart burneth  AB10815

by the hearts which have been set ablaze with the fire of separation from Thee in Thy days, and by the tears of the lovers throughout all regions  BH10058

O what longing for that Face by which the Kingdom of earth and heaven is illumined! O what thirst for that cool water from the mouth of the Beloved  AB03872

The fire of love blazeth and the candle of passionate devotion is in full splendor. Even as a moth, my wings are consumed and my heart burned within me.  AB06421

"it hath stung the hearts of those who sought Thy nearness and presence, and bitten the hearts of those who turned to Thy reunion and beauty"  BH01730

Beloved, our breasts to shards are torn, Our hearts all shorn from kith and kin, Bondslaves are we of Thy holy will, Ensnared in Thy tangled locks are we   AB04431

Thou seest how my heart hath melted in my separation from Thee...Thou seest how I am utterly consumed by the fire of remoteness and estrangement from Thee   BH05450

Every hair of my head proclaimeth: "But for the adversities that befall me in Thy path, how could I ever taste the divine sweetness of Thy tenderness and love?"  BH07119

I testify that the love of thy Lord inflamed thee, His nearness consumed thee, distance from His presence burned thee, and separation in His days destroyed thee.   BH01002

The fire of Your love burns in his heart, his patience is exhausted from longing to attain Your presence, and his tears flow from yearning to witness Your beauty   AB07078

How well it was said: What is the medicine of the yearning one? Poison from the hand of the Beloved What is the balm of lovers? Wounds from the arm of the Friend   AB07311

My God, my God! Separation from Thee hath set me ablaze, remoteness from Thee hath seized my spirit, and distance from the precincts of Thy nearness is my greatest enemy.  BH03140

The Almighty hath at all times ignited the fire of yearning in the hearts and hath concealed Himself; He hath caused the souls to long for reunion, then separated from them.   BH04177

O Lord! Thou seest the burning of the hearts of them that yearn in their separation from Thee, and the agitation of the hearts of them that hope in their remoteness from Thee.  BH01280

Take the poison offered to you as if it were the sweetest honey, recognise a life giving remedy in every pain you have to bear and receive a healing balm from your own wounds.  AB01973

The lover's eyes must be wet, whereat the Beloved may coyly flash an amorous glance. If the lover crieth out a hundred words of grief, the Beloved but turneth more away  BH03019

We are killed by Thy love, extinguished in our separation from Thee, annihilated in Thy Name. Thy trials, I desire. Thy decree, I desire. May all souls be offered up for Thy sake.  BH11587

grievous to me is my remoteness after my nearness to Thee, and my separation after meeting Thee, and my thirst after Thou didst give me to drink from the Kawthar of reunion with Thee   BH05758

Tears flow from my eyes, sighs rise from my heart, and regrets appear in my soul from being separated from beholding the lights of Thy beauty and being deprived of hearing Thy utterance   AB03847

O my God! Thou knowest the yearning of the lovers in their separation and remoteness from Thee, and the sighs of them that long for Thee when prevented from turning to the heaven of Thy grace.   BH03667

Dash to pieces all patience and accept no compromise in this path. Tear asunder thy garments of sobriety and quietude and let thine innermost being burn with love, thine eyes overflow with tears.   AB05154

How sweet then is that moment when a true lover sacrifices his life in the path of the Beloved, and with tear-filled eyes and an enkindled heart, sets forth toward the abode of the Heart's Desire   AB05513

Thou didst come with a sword in Thy hand, O Love, Here is my head, here is my heart, strike, strike hard this lifeless lover. With Thy blood-shedding eyebrow, shed the blood of this heart-bereft soul.  BH05338

and the lovers are in a state of rapture and burning passion, and the floods of their tears cannot extinguish their flames. By thy life! This fire is light itself, and this torment is sweet delight and joy  AB10757

If but a breath from this garden were to reach thy nostrils, the pen would fall from thy hand and thy letter would be torn asunder, nay rather, it would be consumed by the flame of the fire of the love of God.  AB09260

Were anyone to search the hearts of Thy lovers, they would find them pierced by the arrows of separation from Thee, and their innermost beings aflame with the fire of remoteness from Thee.  BH02261

In their love of His Face, sanity and insanity were distraught, Drunkenness and sobriety circled about His abode. Marvel not that the lover hath fallen into His snare, The necks of the Monarchs of the Spirit are caught in His wavy locks.   BH02846

"the fire is ablaze in the breasts, the tears are streaming from the eyes...The eyes of the beloved ones, O my God, are swimming in tears; the hearts of the yearning ones, O my Beloved, are wandering in the wilderness of Thy mercifulness"   AB00930

The children of men, who exist in this visible world, each and every one sighed and bewailed, and lamented by day and by night thinking that they were enamoured with a thousand true beloved ones and filled with the ecstasy of the beauty of Layla.  AB03478

Then she became distracted by the countenance of the true Beloved and disheveled by the locks of the divine Joseph. She became distraught and wandering. If this is so, it is fitting that you are bewildered and passion-filled, lost and madly in love.  AB09591

I long for that cup, which is overflowing with the bounty of God, as a patient desiring to be healed, as a thirsty soul seeking water, as the poor in quest of wealth, and as one in separation yearning after the meeting of the beloved one night and day.  AB04182

My eyes have turned white from flowing tears - illuminate them with the collyrium of Thy bounty. O Lord! No occupation remains for me - I have become powerless, hopeless, with burning entrails, confined on all sides, with broken bonds and scattered desires.   AB05021

"Do Thou supply me, O Lord, with the cup of death after Thou hast made me taste the bitterness of remoteness from Thee... Have mercy, O my Lord, upon my sicknesses and upon my wakefulness and upon my sorrows and upon my burning with the flame of my separation"  AB02035

The well-guarded secrets in this day are the mysteries of the love of God, which are hidden in the innermost essence of the human heart. Its fire ignites all hearts and its heat encompasses all regions. At one time this mystery is felt through the aching pangs of love; at another it expresses itself through the words of a pen, at a third time it may be a melody that ignites the very life within the soul and yet again it is a lamp that might set ablaze the universe. AB04815

bereft of patience from separation from Your heavenly presence, tears flowing from being deprived of Your holy court, my heart burning and my gathering scattered, disheveled and dust-covered from falling upon the earth of abasement in the desert of separation from You  AB02029

Thou art He Who, O my God, hath kindled my heart with Thy love, then forbidden me from beholding Thy beauty, and Who hath caused my heart to melt in passion and yearning for Thee, then prevented me from entering the sanctuary of Thy nearness and attaining Thy presence.   BH00837

Thus for those who long for the countenance of the Friend, their heart's desire is the reproach of enemies, the blame of the malicious, severe torment, chains and iron fetters, nay rather sword and spear and blade and arrow, oppression and cruelty, poison and affliction.   AB01685

Though the fire of separation from Him is a burning flame, and the yearning to behold Him sets the heart ablaze, and these two cause floods of tears to flow, yet this temporary deprivation ends in eternal reunion and intimate fellowship in the private chamber of that loving Friend.  AB10192

It seems the effect of the ink of the decree found a burning fire, and the letters and words took on the nature of flames. The people of the pavilion of glory joined in sighs and cries upon hearing it, and those secluded in the tents of grandeur wept and wailed from its intense effect   AB04348

Through divine love every bitterness will become sweet: the colocynth will turn to sweet honey, the fang of a snake to medicine, poison to an antidote for them that have minds to know, calamity to comfort, hardships will become blessings, cruelty will turn to fidelity and affliction to pleasure.   AB04941

By the locks of Thy musk-scented hair, which hath cut off the destitute dwellers of the valley of search from all hope and expectation through the majesty of a new affliction, and hath, through the might of severe trials, debarred the captives in the realm of desire from the everlasting sign of the ultimate goal  BH11235

Praise be to God, the loved ones of that region are intoxicated with the overflowing cup and delighted by witnessing the lights. They are enkindled by the ignited fire of love for the Ancient Beauty and, like moths to the candle of love, have burned their wings. O Lord! Increase their burning, their longing, and their radiance. AB06921

Thou knowest, O my God, that Thy love hath consumed me, Thy separation hath dissolved me, and from being parted from Thee my bones and limbs are set ablaze. By Thy glory, O Beloved of the worlds, Goal of them that know Thee, and God of all in the heavens and earths! I cannot endure to be patient at the manifestation of Thy chosen Name.  BH00838

O thou who art captivated by that Kind Beloved! With what attribute shall I praise thee? The best praise is to say that thou art enamored of that Beloved and art captivated by the love of that Soul-Cherishing Beloved. Thou art wandering distraught in His lane, roaming toward Him, enchanted by His countenance, and entangled in His tresses.   AB02720

Love requireth man to sacrifice his life for his beloved, become a wanderer and fully enamoured, accept public disgrace, abandon name and trace, and forget body and soul for love's sake. Such is the requirement of love in the contingent world; consider then what the love of God and passionate devotion to the Celestial Beloved would require!   AB06771

Every night I am consumed by the fire of separation from Thee, and every day I am gladdened by the wondrous tokens of Thy bounty. In the night-time I weep in my despair at being remote from the evidences of Thy triumph and Thy loving-kindness, and in the daytime I laugh with hope at the wondrous manifestations of Thy generosity and benevolence.  BH01653

And if I restrain the tongue from the wondrous utterances in describing Thee, by Thy might my heart raiseth the banners of Thy remembrance, and if I withhold the heart from what it experienceth lest anyone discover my love for Thee, by Thy beauty my spirit soareth in the heaven of Thy nearness and wingeth its flight in the atmosphere of reunion with Thee   BH05091

From the outset love was rebellious and bloodthirsty, So as to put every stranger to flight. One of the requisites of true love is willingness to bear every suffering and tribulation that hath occurred in the past or may occur in the future. Hence a passionate lover is always stained with blood, and he that yearneth to meet the Beloved a constant wanderer.  AB00610

By the might of Thy majesty! The cup of death is among Thy greatest bounties and the drink of bitter aloe among Thy greatest favors. Oh what longing for Thy Kingdom! Oh what thirst for the Euphrates of Thy presence! Oh what joy in the confines of graves after the disappearance of Thy beauty! Oh what delight from the sound of death's call after the setting of Thy sun!  AB01222

I discover in my heart such rapture from the ardor of union with Thee and longing to meet Thee that I find no patience in separation from Thee nor composure in attaining Thee... in union with Thee my cries are raised and my voice is lifted up; and if I show patience in separation from Thee, I witness that in Thy remoteness my spirit departs and my soul finds no rest ever.   BH01698

O thou who hast lost thy heart to the Beloved's face at the banquet of God, like the mystic doves in this heavenly garden and divine orchard, perch upon the tree of freedom, sing out thy melodies, and wail and lament, for the face of that laughing, hundred-petaled Rose hath slipped behind the veil, and the beauty of that Sweetheart of the All-Merciful hath become concealed.  AB07472

The fish is never sated with water, nor the lover satisfied with the beloved. Should the loved one gaze upon the beauty of the beloved for a thousand years, it would seem but an hour, and should he drink for ages the pure wine from the honey of union, it would seem but a moment. Their joy is in sacrificing heart and soul, and their sorrow in being occupied with this and that.  BH01176

Verily, the intensity of her sorrows maketh Me weep and causeth My heart to address her, saying: Understand thou well the heat which is consuming Me that thou mayest praise God for thy plight, and thy soul may find abundant joy. And My liver addresseth My heart saying: Wert thou to be informed of how I burn and blaze, thou wouldst find the fire thou art in to be light and cold.  BH02727

Love from the beginning was ever rebellious and bloodthirsty, that the outsider might flee. As Ibn-i-Farid hath said: Live in solitude, for love's comfort is suffering; its beginning is sickness and its end is death. In the Ode of the Dove he saith: Either abandon thy claim to love, or be content with what transpireth, for thus hath the matter been ordained in My laws and My ways.  AB05425

A moth loves the light, though his wings are burnt. Though his wings are singed, he throws himself against the flame. He does not love the light because it has conferred some benefit upon him. Therefore he hovers round the light, though he sacrifices his wings. This is the highest degree of love. Without this abandonment, this ecstacy, love is imperfect. The lover of God loves Him for Himself, not for his own sake.   ABU1409
