And God hath created naught save in pairs, that ye might draw evidence thereof.  BB00004

Whereupon He created all things—whether plants or animals or intelligent and rational beings—in joyous, connected pairs, in order that they might flourish, multiply, and worship their Lord with radiant devotion, treading the path of guidance with heart and soul. Amongst the believers, He hath ordained this binding covenant to be a sign of Divine Unity and the highest means for attaining physical and spiritual union.  AB12841

All praise be unto God, Who hath created realities that are paired through the mutual encounter of the divine names and attributes, that are comprised of both existence and essence, and that derive their grace from states that are opposite yet compatible and from facing mirrors that form complementary reflections. “Glory be to Him Who hath created all the pairs, of such things as the earth produceth, and of themselves, and of things beyond their ken”, and hath made the human reality to be a wellspring of blessings and a fountainhead of abundant increase in the world of being. The inner realities of all things proceeded from the encounter of the most excellent names, and the contest of the most exalted attributes. They married, assembled, gathered, harmonized, united, and attained unto completion and perfection—whereupon, within the essences of the realities derived therefrom, the effulgence of primal oneness shone resplendent.  AB00136

And there is nothing whose command doth not end in male or female, if ye would but reflect upon that which ye possess.  BB00004

There is nothing in the plant kingdom except it has its splendid mate, nor among sensing creatures except it has its noble pair   AB03306

That is, were the souls created in pairs and did they belong to each other forever and ever, even if they did not meet on this earth? He said: "Yes" - that everything was created in pairs   ABU2647

Through the Kaf God created the substance of things and the sign of His uniqueness and the temple of His oneness, indicating God alone, and it is the highest consciousness in contingency wherein God alone is known, and it is called the heart. Through the Nun God created things from the beginning of inclination toward Himself to the uttermost multiplicity, from infinity unto infinity.  BB00022


masculine and feminine are characteristics of physical bodies and have no connection with the spirit. The spirit and its realm are sanctified from such conditions and are free from every description that applies to bodies in the contingent world. However, in previous cycles, men were distinguished from women because physical powers ruled over spiritual ones.  AB03015

The meaning of Adam is the reality that bestows bounties, is manifest and active, for in him are comprised the outward manifestations of the divine names and attributes, and the various states of the All-Merciful. Eve is the reality that is dependent, on which bounties are bestowed, which is subservient and influenced, for it is under the influence of all the divine names and attributes.  AB00328

Concerning thy question about the meaning of 'active force' - it refers to the Universal Lord, though it hath other meanings, and that which returns to the 'passive.' Reflect upon the Tablet of Wisdom. In every verse lies concealed an ocean among the oceans. We beseech God that thou mayest be enabled to witness and contemplate that which hath streamed forth from the Most Exalted Pen, both in the past and future. That which hath been sent down from the heaven of Divine Will is such that before it the books of the world have bowed down, yet the peoples remain in evident drunkenness. BH00548

Light consists of material vibrations like heat and other material effects. From the friction between attractive and repulsive forces, light occurs which is lightning. And from striking steel against flint, fire is produced. Light and fire are not in the stone or steel but occur from the striking.  ABU1297

As for thunder and lightning - lightning represents the meeting of two mighty forces, negative and positive, that is, the force of attraction and the force of repulsion. When these two forces meet, lightning flashes and pierces the air, creating a vacuum. Then the air rushes back to fill the vacuum, producing waves in the air which affect the auditory nerve, thus producing thunder.   AB00216

at Whose command the letter K was joined with its pillar N  BH04848

through Whom was revealed the decree of the "B" and "E" and every hidden command and treasured secret   BH02365

He is the One Who createth what He willeth through His command Be! and it is. That is the Creator of the heavens  BB00004

Verily the treasuries of God lie between the Kaf and the Nun. God sendeth down what He willeth by His command, and ye act according to it.  BB00004

I beseech Thee, O Bestower of bounties and Lord of all nations, by Thy Most Great Name through which Thou didst manifest the Kaf and the Nun and didst create thereby what was and what will be  BH08436

God has made words as bodies for spirits which are meanings, and God has written with His hands between them a true relationship, and there was naught between them save as between the Kaf and the Nun.  BB00239

So great was the wondrous grace which pervaded all things that through the utterance of the letters "B" and "E" the gems that lay hid within the repositories of this contingent world were brought forth and made manifest.   BH00729

They have said that the world was created through the command "Be" (Kun), and in the realm of truth, this "K" is the "K" of remembrance of friends, and the "N" is the endless bounty of love.  BH01190

Who has ordained the measures of all things under the shadow of His command, and made the essences of all things between the K and the N through the revolution of the V by the appearance of the H in the degree of concealment. This is the handiwork of God whereby He creates what He creates and originates whatever He originates.  BB00351

From the Kaf of Being, generosity was made manifest, which became the cause of existence. And from the Nun appeared the realm of preservation and encompassment. Such power lies concealed within these two that should all created things appear with countless tongues and praise them until the endless end, they would never fathom their essence and would find themselves utterly impotent and wanting.  BH10820

When they spoke and caused to speak, and came with their signs and manifested their evidences, and completed their signs and bestowed their bounties, through them were made known the realities of the people of certitude and the inner secrets of the people of hypocrisy, until the confident ones ascended and the humble ones were exalted...Then when they melted and moved, persisted and swelled, inhaled and became straight, the letter Kaf revolved and connected to the letter Nun.  BB00045

