
You must obey your parents so that they may be pleased with you, and so that God will be pleased with you   ABU2244

In the Book of God it is recorded that should a person embrace this Faith, his father and mother shall also receive forgiveness.  BHU0060

It is an axiomatic fact that all the lasting and beneficial reforms must commence with the family. Both the father and mother must contribute their share to the idealization and sanctification of the hearth. This is the cornerstone of national greatness.  ABU1399

When the child sees that the parents love him more for his good qualities than purely for his own self, then he will endeavor to obey his parents by characterizing himself with noble qualities. For he will know that by this means, his parents' love for him will increase, and that to neglect this, he shall forfeit their greater love and affection.  ABU1147

Train thy dear son in such a manner that he will attain the illumination of the Kingdom, will become a true servant of God, a light of love and a radiance of harmony  AB09732

Unto every father hath been enjoined the instruction of his son and daughter in the art of reading and writing and in all that hath been laid down in the Holy Tablet.  BH00001

In this glorious Cause the life of a married couple should resemble the life of the angels in heaven—a life full of joy and spiritual delight, a life of unity and concord, a friendship both mental and physical. The home should be orderly and well-organized. Their ideas and thoughts should be like the rays of the sun of truth and the radiance of the brilliant stars in the heavens. Even as two birds they should warble melodies upon the branches of the tree of fellowship and harmony. They should always be elated with joy and gladness and be a source of happiness to the hearts of others. They should set an example to their fellow-men, manifest a true and sincere love towards each other and educate their children in such a manner as to blazon the fame and glory of their family.  ABU2222

To sum up, parents must so behave before their children that they may be noble examples to them in words and deeds.   ABU1326

The parents must teach their children the laws of life and how to avoid evils and temptations.  ABU1399

A mother who possesses learning and accomplishments will foster her children like angels in excellence, conduct and beauty.  AB03327

Know thou that the rights of parents are great, very great, and God hath compared them to His own rights. Thou must, therefore, please thy mother, obey her orders  AB02802

Children are the ornaments of the home. A home without children is like a home without light.  ABU3563

The fruits of the tree of existence are trustworthiness, religion, truthfulness and sincerity, and greatest of all, after the oneness of God, exalted and mighty be He, is due regard for the rights of parents. This matter is mentioned in all the divine Books and recorded by the Supreme Pen. Consider what the All-Merciful has revealed in the Qur'an, His words exalted be He: "Worship God and associate naught with Him, and show kindness unto parents." Observe how kindness to parents is joined with the oneness of God. Blessed is every wise mystic who witnesses and sees and reads and knows and acts according to what God has revealed in the Books of old and in this mighty Tablet.  BH02956

the greatest of all, after recognition of the unity of the Lord, exalted and glorified be He, is regard for the rights of one's parents. This matter hath been mentioned in all the heavenly Books and recorded by the Most Exalted Pen. Consider what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an: "Worship God and join not any partners with Him, and show kindness unto parents." Observe how association with parents is linked with the recognition of the one true God.   BH02374

Praise be to God that thou hast been blessed with such parents, who are dawning-places of certitude and manifestations of assurance. How blessed is the son who hath such a father, and how blessed is the father who hath a son who is a worthy successor and a manifestation of the most great and glorious grace.  AB09979

Consider how dear is a father who, in this gathering, is intimately engaged in remembrance of thee and familiar with thy mention, and who begs from God that thou mayest be confirmed. At every moment thou shouldst offer a hundred thousand thanks that thou hast such a loving father  AB09222

Consider how dear is a father who in this gathering is intimate with your remembrance and familiar with your mention, and who beseeches God for your success. At every moment you should offer a hundred thousand thanks that you have such a loving father  AB09222

Seek the good pleasure of thy father as far as it is possible for thee and be not aggrieved by his indifference for the rights of one's parents are sacred even should they perpetrate injustices against thee  AB03934

A son should be thus affectionate and worship his parents, forsake his own comfort and think of the ease of both stranger and kin.  AB06489

Satisfy thy revered father and seek his pleasure, so that he may consider that thou observest his obedience more than ever. Practice the utmost love and affection   AB03769

Be thou patient in what thou hast received from thy father and deal with him under all conditions with patience... We have enjoined upon all to honor their fathers and mothers.  BH11642

These are the parents of whom He says: "Worship God and associate naught with Him, and show kindness unto parents." He hath joined their rights with the rights of His Divinity.  AB07628

Parents must strive diligently for the religion of their children and its strengthening, for any child who departeth from the divine religion will surely not act in accordance with the good-pleasure of his parents and of God, glorified be His majesty.   BH00228

I hope that all children will be assisted to serve their mothers as you did and become the cause of their happiness, for the rights of father and mother are conjoined with the rights of the Divine Unity, and "show kindness unto parents" is a clear and evident proof.   AB02049

The son, on the other hand, must show forth the utmost obedience towards his father, and should conduct himself as a humble and a lowly servant. Day and night he should seek diligently to ensure the comfort and welfare of his loving father and to secure his good pleasure.  AB05586

There are also certain sacred duties on children toward parents, which duties are written in the Book of God, as belonging to God. The (children's) prosperity in this world and the Kingdom depends upon the good pleasure of parents, and without this they will be in manifest loss.  AB02613

I send boundless greetings to thy honored son. I hope that through divine grace and favor he may be assisted and confirmed in his youth to serve the Cause and to serve thee, for the rights of parents are most great in the sight of the Beloved, especially in this matter wherein they have placed great emphasis.   BH01335

Convey yearning greetings to your esteemed father, act according to his good pleasure, and carry out whatever he deems advisable. Set aside your own thoughts and execute whatever is his will. Do not deviate from his good pleasure by so much as a hair's breadth, and know that this is the cause of your eternal happiness.   AB03455

Father and mother are worthy of esteem and it is necessary (to secure their good pleasure); but this on condition that they may not prevent one from nearness to the Threshold of the Almighty and may not withhold one from walking in the path of the Kingdom.   AB03276

And if you wish to take a spouse in obedience to your mother, there is no objection to this, for mothers have rights conjoined with the rights of the Lord of verses. He has said in the Qur'an: "Lower unto them the wing of humility and say: My Lord! Have mercy on them even as they cherished me when I was little." Based on this, obeying one's mother in a legitimate matter is a gift to man.  AB06444


Consider what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an: Worship ye God and associate naught with Him, and show kindness and charity unto the parents. Observe how kindness to parents has been joined with recognition of the one true God.  BH00069

Children give to a person the greatest consolation. No matter how much the father is sad or cross as soon as his darling child laughs or speaks, he is made happy. One who has had children has gone through certain joyous experiences that are impossible to describe in word! It is an indescribable state, a divine condition full of sweetness and love. I had a son about three or four years old. This child was a great comfort to me. Often, past midnight while I was sound sleep, the child would leave his small bed and slowly creep in toward mine and putting his lovely little arms around my neck and kiss my closed eyelids and face. Then I would wake and endear and love it. That state-that happiness-that beatific joy - that is to wake up and find your beloved child clasping his tiny arms around your neck - is only known to a father.   ABU1531

In the world of existence, the most precious of all beings is a loving father and a kind mother.  AB09979

Thou art a memorial of that Tree of God's love; thou art a remnant of that sign of divine bounty. I beseech the Lord of existence, by His kindness and generosity, to reveal the truth of the saying "the child is the secret essence of its sire" in the inner reality of that new flower of the garden of recognition. Thus mayest the branch follow the way of the root "and that is not difficult for God."  AB08283

There is nothing sweeter than that sons may become the spiritual lights of their father; there is nothing more fine and that they become new branches with verdant leaves in the garden of the love of God in which they grow. What a joy is there in this, what happiness that hath neither equal nor peer!   AB04128
