We said and wrote what was for the good and welfare of Iran and the Iranians, but they did not listen. Even at the beginning of the revolution it was explicitly written that until the government and people mix together like honey and milk, success and prosperity are impossible and unattainable. Iran would be ruined and the end result would lead to intervention by neighboring powers, etc. The Blessed Beauty states in the Tablet of the World that Iran needs laws and principles.  ABU2852

Thirty years ago I wrote to Sultan Abdul Hamid that if thou desirest to protect thy Empire thou must give complete freedom of rights to all thy subjects no matter to what religion they may belong and establish a constitution  ABU2929

On the other hand the legislators, the far-visioned peace-advocates, the practical statesmen of America must from now on frame a code of laws and regulations to be used as the foundation for the future Universal Parliament of Man.   ABU1515

When we have the interparliamentary body composed of delegates from all the nations of the world and devoted to the maintenance of agreement and goodwill, the utopian dream of sages and poets, the parliament of man, will be realized.  ABU0788

Even the President made fourteen points as the foundation for the League of Nations - twelve of these foundations had explicitly issued from the Supreme Pen fifty years ago and were disseminated throughout the world through newspapers and journals, and the great ones of Europe and America became aware of them.  AB01143

For every cycle there are certain exigencies. One cannot resist the exigency of the time. The time now requires that there should be a constitution, and not despotism, which latter is now impossible. In the Book of Laws there is an evident text concerning the constitution, for a constitution is according to the law.   ABU0841

However, it was observed that in Iran, regarding parliament, a strange uproar has arisen among the various groups and religions. There is no doubt that this parliament too, like the two previous parliaments, will be fruitless, for it consists of noise and clamor rather than the investigation of the welfare of Iranians.  AB09517

Consider how much the independent governments of the world resisted their peoples, yet ultimately they were compelled to establish constitutional parliamentary government. For those who have gone before in past centuries, there are lessons. Even small governments have become constitutional. In the previous year, the Prince of Montenegro willingly and of his own accord made his independent legislative government constitutional.  AB01216

Through the grace of God and His chosen ones, and the high endeavors of the devoted and the consecrated, every difficulty can be easily resolved, every problem however complex will prove simpler than blinking an eye. While the setting up of parliaments, the organizing of assemblies of consultation, constitutes the very foundation and bedrock of government, there are several essential requirements which these institutions must fulfill.  AB00004

If they were well-wishers, they would have shown obedience and submission to His Imperial Majesty the Shah and, with utmost humility, submissiveness and dignity, would have presented whatever they considered beneficial for state and nation regarding the establishment of a national parliament. It is certain that His Imperial Majesty would accept the petitions of any unbiased person, especially if based on goodwill for state and nation.   AB02050

The Hague Congress must have such power and influence that its word becomes effective among nations and peoples. In conversation with the respected members, indicate that before the war the head of The Hague Congress was the Emperor of Russia and its members were among the greatest figures, yet it could not prevent this terrible war. How will it be now? For in the future, an even more severe war will certainly occur - there is absolutely no doubt about this. What will The Hague Congress do?   AB00563

In the religion of God Constitutional government is a religious and binding principle. Every nation must diligently walk in this path and form a government of justice and fairness towards all the individuals of society.  ABU2156

We hope that constitutional government, which is the decisive text of the Most Holy Book, will be established in Iran and assurance will be obtained. Constitutional government, by the decisive text of the Most Holy Book, is legitimate government, while absolutism and autocracy are illegitimate.  AB00113

You wrote a glorious letter saying that the time has arrived, of the most great glad-tidings that a national parliament has been established in Iran and that arrangements are being made for a constitutional government that is in accord with the divine Law, in conformity with the explicit command of the Most Holy Book. I read what you wrote about the joy and delight of the American intellectuals and scholars at this life-giving good news, as well as the rejoicing at the Ottoman embassy. This became a cause for great happiness. The constitutional government is, according to the unequivocal divine Text, sanctioned by the revealed Law, and it is a cause of the might and prosperity of the State, to which allegiance is owed, and of the progress and liberty of the respected citizenry.   AB00508

So long as the government and the people are not blended like honey and milk, prosperity and success are in no wise possible. A government of religious (shari'ah) law is a constitutional government and one of the immediate requirements of this luminous age. Therefore all the governments of the world have become, or will continue to become, constitutional governments. There is no other alternative.  AB11815

The mighty government and the brilliant nation should unite and establish a constitutional government, for the contingent world requires it, and one cannot prevent the requirements of existence. Every age has its requirements, and today's requirement is that governments be constitutional, as this brings comfort to the world of creation. The government will be in utmost ease and the nation in complete gratitude. What could be better than having the national assembly and cabinet of ministers take responsibility for all affairs, accept accountability, serve the government, while the king, like the Emperor of England, lives in perfect comfort, security and happiness, with the entire nation devoted to him. Therefore, constitutionalism is preferable, but utmost caution must be exercised so it does not become like other cases.  AB07452

The war was not an act of God, but rather the results of the accumulation of our own evil deeds. Because peoples and nations did not act in accordance with justice, and tyrannized innocent men, this war had to sweep away all remnants of autocracy, absolutism and militarism, and usher in an era of democracy, equality before the law, and international peace.  ABU2686

The election of temporary members of the assemblies of the kingdom should depend upon the choice and satisfaction of the public, for members elected by the people are pledged to carry out their will, and to follow out their instructions.   ABU3097

Parliamentary procedure should have for its object the attainment of the light of truth upon questions presented and not furnish a battleground for opposition and self-opinion. Antagonism and contradiction are unfortunate and always destructive to truth. In the parliamentary meeting mentioned, altercation and useless quibbling were frequent; the result, mostly confusion and turmoil; even in one instance a physical encounter took place between two members. It was not consultation but comedy.  ABU0540

But since in accordance with the explicit text of the Holy Book, a government that conforms to Divine Law is a constitutional government and a government that wields absolute power is contrary to the Divine good-pleasure, the Baha'is were continually engaged in promoting, among the Persian citizens, the ideals of a constitutional government, while calling to their attention the benefits of a constitutional government and the detriments of a government with absolute power.  AB11832
