
When minerals pass away from the mineral world they enter the vegetable world and thus progress, and when plants pass away from the vegetable world they progress and enter the animal world, and when they pass away from the animal world they enter the human world and progress  AB00767

For example, it has existed in the elemental substances of the mineral kingdom. From the mineral kingdom it has traversed the vegetable kingdom and its constituent substances; from the vegetable kingdom it has risen by evolution into the kingdom of the animal and from thence attained the kingdom of man.  ABU0241


In existence there are simple elements, each being a single particle that cannot be divided or separated. All beings are combinations of these individual elements - that is, they are composed of diverse parts. They liken the simple elements to letters which cannot be divided. For example, "A" is singular and cannot be divided. But other beings are like words composed of multiple letters - words that can be divided and separated.  AB00060

It is an established fact that Man travels through these various kingdoms. The indivisible atom in the mineral kingdom appears through infinite changes, and in each change it manifests a peculiar virtue. - Having perfected its journeys through the mineral kingdom it acsends to the vegetable kingdom - Again in the vegetable kingdom this indivisible atom manifests itself throughout all the different varieties of plant life, and having again finished its experiences in this kingdom it will appear in the animal kingdom.  ABU0234

Al-Ash'ari says about it: 'The entire creation consists of matter and power (movement). Matter, the corporeal, consists of atoms which are alike; they, the atoms, fill up space, they are units without magnitude conceived as points, on which all spatial corporeal existence is based. The atoms do not penetrate into each other, they move, they change. All changes of the atoms are based on combination and separation, on quick and undetectable movement -on this is dependent the form, the appearance of the body.'  ABU0226

"In short, the single element is subjected to coursings and journeyings throughout the interminable universe, and in every stage it has certain distinct virtues. For these virtues there is no end. Thus it is evident that the single element is absolutely indestructible and eternal. It appears in all phenomena, at most being subject simply to transferences, but not to destruction. It is everlasting."  ABU1593

In its ceaseless progression and journeyings the atom becomes imbued with the virtues and powers of each degree or kingdom it traverses. In the degree of the mineral it possessed mineral affinities; in the kingdom of the vegetable it manifested the augmentative virtue or power of growth; in the animal organism it reflected the intelligence of that degree; and in the kingdom of man it was qualified with human attributes or virtues.  ABU0024

throughout countless ages, every primordial atom must journey and traverse through the infinite degrees and stations of the Kingdoms of life on this grand Cosmos. In every stage of growth and development this atom assumes unto itself a definite form and shape conformable to its environment and adaptable to its existence and possible variation until at last it attains to its highest point of progress, displaying all its latent force of variability and development.   ABU0441

For instance, there is no doubt that this flower is composed of diverse elements. At one time, each of its elements was in the mineral kingdom and passed through myriad forms in that kingdom, in each form manifesting a different characteristic. Now it has entered the plant kingdom and is traversing through vegetative forms. At one time it is part of this flower; at another time it is part of another flower or tree. In brief, it will pass through myriad forms in the plant kingdom.   ABU0078

We come from the earth; why were we transferred from the mineral to the vegetable kingdom -- from the plant to the animal kingdom? So that we may attain perfection in each of these kingdoms, that we may possess the best qualities of the mineral, that we may acquire the power of growing as in the plant, that we may be adorned with the instincts of the animal and possess the faculties of sight, hearing, smell, touch and taste, until from the animal kingdom we step into the world of humanity  ABU1800

Again, substances of the mineral kingdom may become constituents of vegetable forms; but they do not thereby lose their mineral nature. They become, not a growing power, but part of a growing form. These substances may in like manner come to animal bodies, but, as before, without leaving behind their peculiar nature as minerals, although they take on certain qualities from the animal. And, finally, they may go to make up bodies and receive the impress of the character of man-may reflect the perfections of human nature; still they do not lose their identity as minerals.  ABU1139

Those molecular atoms which go into the make-up of the human body were originally in the mineral world, and these atoms have had journeyings and coursings through all the various phases of the mineral kingdom, appearing under various forms and images. Stepping up into the vegetable kingdom these atoms have been transferred from mineral to vegetable. In the vegetable kingdom they have manifested under various shades, and in a myriad of forms. Rising into a higher scale of life, we see them again in the animal kingdom, expressing themselves through multitudes of forms and images.  ABU1774

"In the mineral kingdom, the single element traverses from one state to another until it completes all the stages of that kingdom. At one time it is dust. At another time it is stone, or crystal, or something else. This single element may then be transferred to the vegetable kingdom, wherein it traverses the various stages of that kingdom. Again, this single element may be transferred to the animal kingdom, and in that kingdom become part of various animal tissues, appearing in different forms of the animal type. At another time, this single element may be transferred to the human kingdom and traverse its various stages."  ABU1593

This single element may be mineral one day; another day it transfers to the vegetable kingdom and manifests vegetable perfections; another day it passes to the animal kingdom; another day it enters the human realm; another day it transfers to yet another being. Thus, every single elemental particle of existence transfers through infinite forms -- one day it is in the sea, another day on land, another day in the air, another day it is rain, another day a cloud, another day a flower, another day a human, another day an animal. That is, it journeys through all beings and in each being it possesses a distinct perfection -- in the human world it has human perfection, in the animal world animal perfection, and in the vegetable world vegetable perfection.  The purpose is that every particle transfers and journeys through infinite forms, and in each form it possesses a perfection. Thus all beings are one, absolute unity -- that is, everything contains within it the meaning of all things. The ultimate truth is that every particle of existence moves and circulates through all these ranks. This is why divine philosophers have said that every thing contains the perfection of all things -- nothing is deprived.  ABU0151

For example, when this mineral enters the world of the plant, it will see that the power of growth exists. When a plant enters the world of the animal, it will see that the faculties of sense perception exist; when an animal enters the human realm, it will realize that rational faculties exist. And when man gains admittance into the spiritual world, he will realize that the soul, like unto the sun, is established.  ABU0205

and its true felicity lies in its progress into the animal and human realms, becoming transformed into their bodily substance. But its true felicity lies in being transferred from the animal to the human kingdom, like minute creatures which, through air and water, enter the human body and are absorbed, becoming part of human tissue. This is its ultimate glory and happiness; no greater honor can be conceived for it.  AB00476

All things in creation are composed of simple atoms of compound particles. In the mineral kingdom, many substances such as gold are composed of simple atoms. In the vegetable kingdom, plants are composed of more complex particles, hence we see they have more qualities and powers, such as growth, for example. Then again, in the animal kingdom, the creatures are still more complex and have additional powers such as instinct, and in the kingdom of man many more powers and qualities are possessed and developed.  ABU1858


For instance this chicken that you are eating was once in the Mineral Kingdom, through successive stages it reached the vegetable Kingdom, then the animal Kingdom and now it is going into the make up of your constitution - which is the human Kingdom.  ABU2506
