In truth, there was not a single capable, knowledgeable person in Iran, and no aware soul could be found. Now they hope that some people from the East will study in Europe and return to Iran to become a cause of development. Even assuming proper education and correct action, it would take a thousand years for Iran to develop and flourish and for Tehran to become like Paris. Even then it would not match Europe. Mirza Taqi Khan, the Prime Minister, although he committed such oppression against the Cause that no one had ever done before, nevertheless laid foundations in political affairs and national matters that truly possessed the utmost firmness, even though he had never entered any school in Europe. Yes, proper education assists one who is wise, aware and confirmed, but if there is no innate knowledge and divine confirmation, what fruit and effect does mere education have?  ABU2058

Persians have attempted every possible experiment. They have experimented with liberty and with constitutional law, with absolute power and with independence, with alliance with, or antagonism towards, neighboring governments, with republicanism and with anarchy. None of these has led to success and advancement. To the contrary, the situation has deteriorated day by day, and Persia has been further destroyed.  ABU3762

As Persia has experienced these sad events, the Lord in his Mercy has willed it to illumine that country and it is assured that her future condition will be more glorious than the past and that she may advance greatly along the path of science, industry and arts.   ABU1588

O people of Persia! Awake from your drunken sleep! Rise up from your lethargy! Be fair in your judgment: will the dictates of honor permit this holy land, once the wellspring of world civilization, the source of glory and joy for all mankind, the envy of East and West, to remain an object of pity, deplored by all nations? She was once the noblest of peoples: will you let contemporary history register for the ages her now degenerate state? Will you complacently accept her present wretchedness, when she was once the land of all mankind's desire? Must she now, for this contemptible sloth, this failure to struggle, this utter ignorance, be accounted the most backward of nations?  AB00004

the Iranians must act in such a way that the realm of Iran becomes the crown of the world - and that is the unity of the human world and the union and agreement of all humanity.  ABU2249


We are striving that the moral stamina of Persia be reinforced, her commerce be increased, her system of education be perfected, her scientific attainment be improved.  ABU1157

The upheaval in Iran will not subside; it will continue one after another until it becomes clear and evident that nothing except the teachings and counsels of the Blessed Beauty can bring comfort and tranquility.  AB12238

Iran is in need of the confirmations of the invisible realm...For in this day, Persia can be rescued only through the confirmations of the unseen realm. Human endeavors are even as a lamp, but it is the light of the sun that illumines this endless world.  ABU3762

For all parties have clearly and definitely shown - nay, have become personified and embodied - that they were the cause of turmoil, while the friends, through the aid and care of the Lord of Lords, have become the cause of ease and comfort for Iran, nay rather for the entire world.   AB00902

Time passed, and now again the time of good fortune has arrived and the sun of auspicious destiny has dawned. The breeze of divine favor has blown upon this clime and the light of bounty has shone forth. The brilliant sun has risen from the Eastern realm and the life-giving fragrance has wafted from the land of Iran.  AB02897

But alas! This Cause, though it first appeared in Persia, yet eventually it shall be seen how the peoples of Europe have wrested it from its hands! Take note of this and remember it in future.   AB02805

This conflict will lead to foreign powers' intervention in Iran. At that time both sides will regret it, but regret and remorse will then benefit neither the people nor the government.  AB00665

In this upheaval of Iran, no breast remained that was not made a target for the arrows of tribulation, and no foundation remained that was not breached. Many a household was left without head or shelter, and many a gathering of hearts was scattered. What a devastating hunter was that which passed through this wilderness! The foundation of tyranny and oppression was overthrown, yet the edifice of freedom has not to this day been established. Iran is still in ruins, and parties are in strife and turmoil.  AB10992

May Iranians advance to such a degree that they will shine throughout all regions, become the example for all nations, establish the virtues of the human world, and progress both materially and culturally. May Iran become the center of sciences and arts and the source of crafts and innovations. May it serve the world of morality, become the cause of promoting universal peace. May it establish unprecedented laws and ordinances that will serve as a model throughout all regions   ABU1133

It should not be imagined that the people of Persia are inherently deficient in intelligence, or that for essential perceptiveness and understanding, inborn sagacity, intuition and wisdom, or innate capacity, they are inferior to others. God forbid! On the contrary, they have always excelled all other peoples in endowments conferred by birth.  AB00004

Iran is desolate and in need of noble souls who would establish new foundations for Iran's prosperity. But alas, alas! Previously all were drowning in desires, having no aim except amassing worldly ornaments.  AB00757

these current details are causes of ruin - these differences, these various parties, one democratic and one moderate, day by day they are destroying Iran. Compare Iran's current condition with ten years ago. These differences have ruined Iran and are increasing day by day.  ABU0550

The territory of Iran hath become an arena for cavalry and woe and aggression, and the fires of oppression and tyranny have been ignited therein through the occurrence of conflict between the parties. No breast remaineth except wounded by arrows, no liver except injured by spears, and no body except prostrate upon the dust of abasement and humiliation.   AB00502

It is hoped that the Iranians too will awaken, move beyond metaphor, become aware of and comprehend the truth, and realize that the Sun of Truth has risen from the dawning-place of Iran and has shed its rays upon all horizons. Strange it is that strangers have awakened while familiars remain asleep in the bed of heedlessness.  AB00991

Regarding Iran about which you had inquired, know that this revolution and turmoil will eventually end and in the future time to come Iran will be like a brilliant, shining star. Do not become discouraged by these present difficulties. Pray that God may assist the government and people of Iran and grant them deliverance and salvation from this revolution and turmoil.  AB08886

Observe how in the revolution of Iran, nay rather the turmoil of the entire world, what scenes appeared on this stage and finally all were rolled up with neither fruit nor trace, neither result nor news except ruin and dispersion and regret. Neither victor nor vanquished - both were in loss, for the blood of thirty million souls was spilled in vain and humanity was endangered and cities and villages were overturned without result or fruit.   AB00902

The Iranians are still asleep while the Americans have awakened.   AB05821

From its earliest days, Thou didst make the soil of Persia to be musk scented and soul stirring, gem laden and knowledge bearing. Above its east shineth at all times Thy luminous Orb, and from its west appeareth the radiant moon. Its land fostereth love, its heavenly plains teem with enchanting herbs and flowers, its slopes are replete with fresh and delectable fruits, its meadows are the envy of the garden of Eden, its wisdom beareth tidings of the celestial realm, its fervour is that of the fathomless and surging ocean. For a time, the flame of its knowledge was extinguished and the star of its greatness hidden beneath a veil. Its vernal breezes gave way to autumnal blasts, and its delightsome rose-garden was filled with tares and thorns; its wellspring of limpid waters turned brackish and stale, and its greatest and most precious souls were made homeless wanderers in distant lands; its effulgent light was dimmed and its mighty river reduced to a narrow stream. But at last, the ocean of Thy bounty surged forth and the sun of Thy favour shone resplendent. A new springtime arrived, and a vivifying breeze wafted; the clouds rained down, and that Day-Star of loving-kindness shone resplendent. The country was stirred to life again, the barren dust turned into a rose-garden, and the darksome earth became the envy of every orchard. The world became a new world and resounded with its praise. The mountains and the plains became green and verdant, and the birds of the field warbled their chorus of sweet melodies. This indeed is a time for joy!  AB01999

Convey to the revered personage that for some time the means of havoc have been engendered in Iran and great difficulties have ensued amongst the people and the government.  AB11815

As to the people of Iran, they were all in the utmost distress from this revolution, all scattered and homeless, for no nest was left untouched. This was due to what their own hands had wrought.  AB04076

The flame of longing is kindled in Iran, and the yearning heart of every true reformer is restless, for Iran is sick and in severe distress.   AB03298

The province of Fars, indeed the realm of Iran, is in ruins...That country is in truth subject to endless illnesses, troubled from every direction.  AB03641

Currently in Iran there is such chaos that it defies description. Everyone is occupied with themselves and has no opportunity to deal with others.   AB01524

Iran is in ruins, nay rather, all the regions of the world are in turmoil. As the poet sayeth: Tumult and sedition pervade every atom of the universe.  AB10975

Now that the calamity of following the fatwas of thoughtless clerics has become apparent, and the result of party divisions has become evident   AB00947

Consider what they have brought upon Iran. A people with such ignorant leaders and public affairs in their hands will not fare better than this.  AB04734

O people of Persia! Awake from your drunken sleep! Rise up from your lethargy! Be fair in your judgment: will the dictates of honor permit this holy land, once the wellspring of world civilization, the source of glory and joy for all mankind, the envy of East and West, to remain an object of pity, deplored by all nations? She was once the noblest of peoples: will you let contemporary history register for the ages her now degenerate state? Will you complacently accept her present wretchedness, when she was once the land of all mankind's desire? Must she now, for this contemptible sloth, this failure to struggle, this utter ignorance, be accounted the most backward of nations?  AB00004

There was a time when Persia was like a fragrant Bouquet perfuming all the nostrils and she was the center of the glory and honor of the world of humanity. The inhabitants of Persia from a social, industrial, political and moral standpoint were superior to the rest of mankind. Now the conditions are changed and the same lofty standard is not kept waving aloft. Like a great giant she is prostrated on the ground while groaning with a pitiful voice.   ABU1588

What do they know of political affairs, what caution do they show, what danger do they perceive? They have reclined on the pillow of laziness and like a nightmare have fallen upon the body of the nation. Therefore whatever occurs to their weak minds they issue as religious edicts and ultimately scatter the people and leave them without head or shelter, making Iran desolate.  AB12167

Now from this you can judge what will be the future of Persia which is the birthplace of the Blessed Perfection, Baha'u'llah. Its climate is delightful, its soil is rich, its waters salubrious, its gardens charming, its meadows green and its topography varied.  ABU1227

railways have become widespread throughout all regions of the world. Now the merchants and wealthy ones among the Baha'is must think day and night about building railways in Iran...if this railway is built it will cause the development of the Ottomans and Iranians, indeed all the people of Asia, for it will facilitate the pilgrimage and expand general commerce  AB00459

"certain ill-intentioned religious leaders, appearing as well-wishers, and wolves dressed as shepherds, do not allow the country to become organized"  AB00607

Iran has been ruined by the thoughtlessness of the traditional clergy  AB12415

The land of Persia is the Orient, and the people of Persia are precious and beloved. The realm of Iran is the Eastern clime and has been the country of the godly ones from the beginning. For a time, there came a decline and negligence appeared. The moon of its glory's zenith set, and the star of its wisdom and knowledge descended. The wise became foolish and the learned became ignorant. A light shone forth from a foreign land and an army arrived from a neighboring realm. The carpet of the Persians was rolled up and the joy of the Iranians came to an end. The bright day became dark in their sight and the rose garden became a thorny wilderness. Time passed, and now again the time of good fortune has arrived and the sun of auspicious destiny has dawned. The breeze of divine favor has blown upon this clime and the light of bounty has shone forth. The brilliant sun has risen from the Eastern realm and the life-giving fragrance has wafted from the land of Iran.   AB02897


In truth, in this wondrous Dispensation the Persian friends have made the Iranian people proud   AB02784


We said and wrote what was for the good and welfare of Iran and the Iranians, but they did not listen.   ABU2852

The inhabitants of Persia are yet sleep, although God has demonstrated to them his Cause in so many ways.   ABU2318

If the people of Iran had listened and known the value of these divine teachings, they would have been freed from all calamities  ABU1602

In the course of conversation about the confusion of the administration of Persian government the Master told him the following story  ABU2486

will, ere long bring about the prosperity of Persia and will cause her peoples to become endeared to them of this world and of the next.  AB03351

Soon will those people vaunt the blessed name of Baha'u'llah in the East and West alike, and swell with pride at the mention of Persia and its people.  ABU3672

Various parties in Iran have not grown repentant yet... Various parties in Iran have no intention of doing good. Their purpose is to gain personal profit.  ABU2311

victories which, in the future, will redound to the unfading glory of the people of the East, and crown Persia and its inhabitants with the diadem of honour...  ABU3737

From the dawn of the Cause in Shiraz, the Mushir has had the temerity to arise against the Faith. Ere long, that name will be eradicated from the realm of Fars.  BHU0066

Soon you will observe that the radiance of the Persians' light will illuminate East and West like the shining moon. The fame of Persia will become world-embracing   AB06579

The events in Iran are as a file upon the spirit and a burning fire. Yet there is hope in the aid and favor of the Glorious Lord, and the end shall be praiseworthy.  AB08292

This Society was founded in the city of Hamadan six hundred years ago... It is almost disbanded, but under different names and forms one may come across them in Persia.  AB11297

In any case Persia is destroyed and its entire people are engaged in civil wars and struggles. Life has lost its tranquillity and all the hearts are crying out continually.   AB00315

As Persia hath many nomadic tribes and they are now rebellious and insurgent and infesting the highways, the maid-servants of the Merciful cannot travel there, but the men can.  AB01468

"What a blessing God bestowed upon the Persians but they could not appreciate it! Had they not been ungrateful, the government of Persia would have ranked first in the world."   ABU2208

If they had not killed the Qa'im-Maqam, Iran would not have been ruined, and if they had heeded the divine counsels, their ancient glory would not have been scattered to the winds   ABU2973

The dead name hath become alive and the withered body hath become fresh and verdant. The Iranian form, after old age, hath taken on youth and after weakness hath found heavenly bounty.  AB06770

The standard of chaos and confusion hath, in these days, been hoisted in Iran. There is mischief in every place and misfortune in every quarter. The whole of creation is sorely distressed.  AB12811

If this is carried out, rest assured that in a short time Iran will become bright and illumined like the full moon and will make extraordinary progress in all material and spiritual degrees   AB06140

Iran has superiority over other regions because it was specially endowed with this bounty. But other regions received illumination from the land of Iran and acquired lights from those regions.  AB02477

O people of Persia! Look into those blossoming pages that tell of another day, a time long past. Read them and wonder; see the great sight. Iran in that day was as the heart of the world; she was the bright torch flaming in the assemblage of mankind. Her power and glory shone out like the morning above the world's horizons, and the splendor of her learning cast its rays over East and West. Word of the widespread empire of those who wore her crown reached even to the dwellers in the arctic circle, and the fame of the awesome presence of her King of Kings humbled the rulers of Greece and Rome. The greatest of the world's philosophers marveled at the wisdom of her government, and her political system became the model for all the kings of the four continents then known. She was distinguished among all peoples for the scope of her dominion, she was honored by all for her praiseworthy culture and civilization. She was as the pivot of the world, she was the source and center of sciences and arts, the wellspring of great inventions and discoveries, the rich mine of human virtues and perfections. The intellect, the wisdom of the individual members of this excellent nation dazzled the minds of other peoples, the brilliance and perceptive genius that characterized all this noble race aroused the envy of the whole world.  AB00004

Iran is now in ruins, and in the Most Holy Book this news is clear and evident. This disorder will continue for a time, but will eventually give way to tranquility and dignity, as is written in the Text.  AB03666

so that perhaps the Persian people in this divine cycle may be so stirred to enthusiasm and excitement that they may snatch the ball of precedence and leadership from all others in the arena of knowledge  AB04392

From the day when the Most Exalted Pen moved regarding the Persians and the blessed will was directed toward their glory and honor, the Persians became more honored with each day and made greater progress.  ABU2819

Baha'u'llah, however, has illumined that land, and will surely raise her high in the eyes of all the world. That country shall so advance and develop as to excite the envy and admiration of the East and the West.   AB02805

Praise be to unto God that that country [Persia] hath been blessed by His mercy and is fragrant with the breeze of His holiness. Praise be unto Him that the divine mysteries are being spread by the most wonderful means.  AB03817

"This great woman's movement which is stirring and vibrating all round the whole world is a sign of spirit awakening; even in Persia they stir, they awake, and many have become Bahaists and are freed from the old chains."   ABU2697

Although they squandered Iran's independence, Iran is progressing day by day. One must not lose hope, for everyone's turn lasts but five days. Nothing remains the same way forever. In any case, Iran's future is very bright.   ABU3158

Iran is desolate and much hardship must be endured so that, God willing, improvement may appear in Iran's condition... Though Iran's political affairs are in disarray, its spiritual affairs are unified and growing stronger.   AB01322

Because the Sun of Reality has risen from the horizon of Iran, the Iranians must act in such a way that the realm of Iran becomes the crown of the world...The Iranians should attain to this bounty and triumph more than others.  ABU2249

For the people of Kirman are in infinite need of education - nay, all of Iran is in need of education. Until now no significant enlightened souls have appeared in the assemblies of Iran, and if there be any, the rare is as the non-existent.  AB09913

O ye loving friends of 'Abdu'l-Baha! Your letter written with deep sorrow, grief, anguish and sadness was received, in which you stated how Persia has fallen to ruin, and how that glorious country has become an infernal place of trials and tribulations.  AB02286

For from the time of Alexander the Greek until the emergence of Ardishir, Iran was in ruins and under the dominion and aggression of foreigners. Although outwardly there were local kings, in reality Iran was under the influence and control of ill-wishers.   AB02632

Take on the radiance of the good ones and accept the way of the ancient kings. Become a Faridun in guidance and a Jamshid of the realm of God's incomparable love. Become a fairy-faced Manuchehr of the free spirits and a Kayumars of the city of the righteous.  AB02520

Glory be to God! All parties have caused the ruin of Iran and have reduced this ancient nation and government to the ashes of abasement. They ruined it during the time of independence and made it the arena of the thoughtless during the constitutional period.  AB06151

O people of Iran! Ye have been the dawning-places of mercy and the daysprings of compassion and love. The regions of the world were illumined and adorned with the light of your knowledge. How is it that ye have arisen to destroy yourselves and your friends?   BH00927

What bounty God bestowed upon us Iranians! What a great sun of felicity rose and shone forth from the horizon of the East! Alas, that we did not recognize its worth, and thus have fallen into this sorrowful state and reaped the consequences of our own deeds.   ABU3300

For the prosperity and success of the government and people of Iran is a matter decreed and assured. If proper means be employed, this bounty will be speedily attained and the beloved object of royal desire will be made manifest; otherwise there will be delay.  AB06831

the discussion became general about the conditions of Persia and Turkey; the unfortunate reverses that these two Islamic nations have had during the last two generations, owing to the lack of public spirited servants and misadministration of the government affairs.  ABU0952

This day is the anniversary of many historical events, among them the victory of the Persians over the Arabs who invaded Persia and were successfully repulsed. This day in Persia inaugurates a feast which continues for thirteen days and in which all take part, rich and poor alike.  ABU0881

Therefore, the friends must strive with heart and soul to bring these bewildered Iranians to their senses. If they should so endeavor, it is certain that they will find deliverance from this abyss of humiliation and abasement and will progress in the degrees of eternal glory of humankind.  AB10664

The wisdom of my sojourn here in Paris, as well as the results it will yield, consist in the admonitions I have imparted to the people of the East, and the awareness I have instilled in the Persians -- and this to a degree greater than has been achieved with the inhabitants of Paris themselves!  ABU3752

O people of Persia! Ye have been the dawning-places of mercy and the daysprings of compassion and love. The realms of existence have been illumined and adorned with the light of your knowledge and wisdom. How is it that ye have arisen to destroy yourselves and your friends with your own hands?   BH00514

"Iran will be laid waste and its government and people will fall into utmost hardship, but we have illumined Iran and desired eternal glory for the Iranians. Although Iran is now obscure among nations, this great Cause will eventually make the people of Iran the joy of the world of possibility."  AB00416

Since we discerned no fruit from the counsel we gave our countrymen, nor could we find a hearing ear among them, we felt it necessary to turn our attention to the West. While our compatriots busied themselves with the destruction of their families, we were engaged in securing everlasting victories  ABU3737

You must ever concentrate your thoughts on the acquisition of knowledge, that unending confirmations may successively reach you from the Kingdom of God, and that through His grace you may exert mighty efforts and strenuous endeavors for the progress of Iran and the advancement of the Iranian people  AB08788

Iran must act in such a way that others derive greater benefit from the appearance of the Sun of Truth--meaning that the divine teachings should have greater effect in other lands than in Iran itself, for Iran is the dawning-place of the Sun of Truth and its rays must spread from Iran to other regions.  ABU1267

Affairs have fallen into the hands of children, affairs have fallen into the hands of the base and incompetent. No authority remains for the sovereign. It will take long before Iran becomes Iran. Until it comes under the divine breaths of God, it is impossible. Whatever reforms are made are temporary.  ABU2744

We have counseled the statesmen of Persia to the utmost of our ability, but no one listened or accepted our advice. While travelling in Europe, I met many of the Persian Princes, Ministers and prominent men of that ancient country, and told them the truth of the matter; but the majority of them did not like it.  ABU2156

Tihran. O Amin, upon thee be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious! He is God! O thou who art firm in the Covenant! Thy letter dated the 7th of Dhi'l-Hajjih 1339 was received. The world of humanity, particularly Iran, is in great turmoil, and changes and transformations in all conditions follow one after another.  AB01686

Persia has unlimited possibilities for the development of its material resources, but there must needs be civilizing influences and untiring efforts. There means will be made available in the not distant future. Persia will become the Paradise of the world, because it is the birthplace of the Manifestation of God.   ABU1121

However, it was observed that in Iran, regarding parliament, a strange uproar has arisen among the various groups and religions. There is no doubt that this parliament too, like the two previous parliaments, will be fruitless, for it consists of noise and clamor rather than the investigation of the welfare of Iranians.  AB09517

Had the people of Persia been apprised of this fact, and had they appreciated the value of these divine teachings, they would have been freed from every calamity. Among the statements which Baha'u'llah made in several of His Tablets are the following: Certain laws and principles are necessary and indispensable for Persia.  ABU3709

I have heartfelt attachment to Iranians and desire that justice, fairness and freedom from oppression be known of them throughout the world. As the Arab poet says: My country, though it treats me harshly, is dear to me; and my people, though they be stingy toward me, are noble. We have utmost attachment to Iran and Iranians.  AB05678


Glory be to God! For a thousand years the Iranian nation, especially the Shi'ites, had been lamenting and weeping in mourning for the Master of Martyrs, the martyr of the plain of Karbila, raising their wailing and lamentation to the celestial sphere because Yazid's impure army rode horses over that martyr's body and showed no mercy.  AB00010

I hope that He will make Iran once again the envy of the world and exalt the Persians in both worlds, that faces may become radiant and hearts may become the repository of the mysteries of the Lord of Bounties. Glad tidings unto you that the night of deprivation hath come to an end and the bright day of the Pishdadians hath dawned anew.  AB08075

Strive ye and make an effort, for Iran is the homeland of the compassionate Beloved, and Persia is the source of the rising of the brilliant morn. Perchance through the endeavors of the friends, the people of that land may witness the radiance of the shining moon and receive their share and portion of the outpourings of the Lord of Signs.  AB03195

There was a time when the Persian dynasty died out and no trace remained thereof. On such a day [Naw-Ruz] a new one was founded. Jamshid ascended the throne. Persia became happy and at peace... Therefore, the Persian nation, for the last five or six thousand years, has always considered the Feast of Naw-Ruz as a day of national happiness.  ABU0220

The Persians destroyed their home with their own hands in the hope of building another one; but now they are left in the desert without a home or shelter. We wrote and exhorted them, pointing out that the union of government and the people is like combining milk and honey; otherwise, the neighboring governments will encroach upon the country.  ABU2830

They sacrifice themselves for both government and people, and are the cause of true progress for the people of Iran. They are content with modest wages, and wash their hands of improper income and customary bribes. Through all means they strive for the happiness of the nation, and in every way they seek that which leads to Iran's advancement.  AB07009

However, Iran will certainly shine with the light of truth, and spiritual glory is destined for Iran and the Iranians. Though political independence may not remain, praise be to God that spiritual illumination has shone forth from Iran to the East and West of the world. This glory is enduring and without end, and this bounty is eternal and limitless.   AB00221

O beloved of the Lord! There exist upon this terrestrial globe mighty peoples, tribes, nations, and governments, each of which is renowned in the East and the West for its attainments, arts and sciences. Yet, by virtue of the divine favours, it is above the horizon of Iran that the Daystar of Truth hath risen and hath cast its merciful rays over every land.   AB04631

As to Persia, which to this day remains in such an abject and ruinous state, every man of wisdom, whether from within or without her borders, who knows her true state of affairs recognizes that her progress, her prosperity, and her civilization depend entirely upon the promulgation of the teachings and the dissemination of the principles of this glorious Being.  AB00029

O Persians! The East and West of the world are astir, and the holy fragrances have perfumed the nostrils of the most distant lands. How is it that ye, being Persians, remain deprived and bereft? Such a crown hath God placed upon your heads, and such a brilliant star hath risen from your horizon - how is it that ye still wander in darkness? This is strange and peculiar.  AB05085

At the outset of that revolution in Persia known as the Constitutional Revolution, I wrote again and again that until such time as that government and its people become commingled, even as milk and honey, their success and prosperity will remain entirely unattainable. Persia shall fall into ruin, and the governments of its neighbouring realms will ultimately meddle in its affairs...  ABU3725

O Lord! The Persians are ancient servants and from the ancient peoples of Iran. For a thousand years they were captive in chains and bonds and were abased and humbled in the hands of oppressors. Now the brilliant orb has risen and shone forth intensely. The Beloved of the horizons has become the beauty of the gathering and has made mountain and plain into rose garden and flower bed.   AB02282

They will organize new industries; found the traces of civilization, various factories, the spread of commerce, increase of agriculture, and the universalization of learning. As soon as security and tranquility are reached to the limit of perfection by the endeavors of the government, they will come, and will make the territory of Persia the envy of the world and of the other provinces.  AB09117

Today the success and prosperity of Iran and Iranians lies in this. And now too it is submitted that this is the brilliant star, this is the life-giving remedy. If you desire Iran's ascent to Saturn's height, you must serve at the divine court so the All-Merciful's palace gate may open. Otherwise the future will be like the past and Iranians will remain followers and imitators of mufti and judge.  AB00758

The events in Iran are the cause of grief and infinite sorrow and regret. Blind be the eye that weeps not for thee! In brief, the unenlightened divines who knew nothing of the political world joined hands with thoughtless leaders and the unaware Muhammad 'Ali Shah, ignited the fire of conflict and strife, laid waste to Iran, and became the manifestation of We have put enmity and hatred between them.  AB01309

O people of Persia! How long will you wander? How long must your confusion last? How long will it go on, this conflict of opinions, this useless antagonism, this ignorance, this refusal to think? Others are alert, and we sleep our dreamless sleep. Other nations are making every effort to improve their condition; we are trapped in our desires and self-indulgences, and at every step we stumble into a new snare.  AB00004

The Persians were caught for thirteen hundred years in the circle of existence on the arc of descent until they reached the utmost degree of fall and descent. Now, praise be to God, through heavenly grace and divine bestowal they are ascending from their fall and traversing the arc of ascent under the shadow of the favors of the Blessed Beauty. Day by day they rise higher and moment by moment they become more joyful.   AB03708

Soon shalt thou see that land perfumed with the breezes of holiness and brightened with the light of its ancient splendour. Therefore must the Persians appreciate this bounty and praise the Lord of all creation for having vouchsafed such a blessing, bestowed such peace, and conferred such grace. He hath made their ancient homeland the most exalted of regions and their dwelling-place the dawning-point of the manifest Light.  AB01603

"During the period of history of the Parthians from 400 B.C. until 300 A.D. (namely during the 'dark 700 years'), the time-honoured language of the 'Avesta' declined. The 'Zend' deteriorated into a mixture with neighbouring languages. Under the rule of the Sassanids the Aramaic language of the Near East displaced all the other language mixtures and combined with the Old Persian to a new language structure, the 'Pahlavi' or 'Huzvaresh'"  ABU0201

The parable of Iran is like a verdant and flourishing field that has been seized by cold, with abundant snow fallen upon it. Soon the heat of the sun will melt and disperse the snows, then with utmost beauty that cultivation and garden will swiftly grow and progress. In any case, Iran will soon advance, though internal politics... This situation with their politics that you see continues for some time, until we see what God's politics will do with them.  ABU0189

Iran in that day was as the heart of the world; she was the bright torch flaming in the assemblage of mankind. Her power and glory shone out like the morning above the world's horizons, and the splendor of her learning cast its rays over East and West. Word of the widespread empire of those who wore her crown reached even to the dwellers in the arctic circle, and the fame of the awesome presence of her King of Kings humbled the rulers of Greece and Rome.  AB00004

His Majesty the Shah has, at the present time, [1875] resolved to bring about the advancement of the Persian people, their welfare and security and the prosperity of their country. He has spontaneously extended assistance to his subjects, displaying energy and fair-mindedness, hoping that by the light of justice he might make Iran the envy of East and West, and set that fine fervor which characterized the first great epochs of Persia to flowing again through the veins of her people.  AB00004

Although in recent years there has been movement and striving of political parties in Iran, all claiming to be working for Iran's welfare - to adorn the country and bring rest to the helpless subjects, to make the land prosperous and victorious the banner of Kavian - yet no party succeeded. The prosperous realm became buried, Iran was laid waste, and it became proven and established that Iran will not attain to the summit of eternal glory except through the breath of the All-Merciful.  AB02940

The Almighty God found Iran in darkness and deemed it worthy of endless favors. Therefore, the Sun of the celestial realm cast its rays and illumined the horizons of that region. The oppressed Persians, who for a thousand years had crept into the corner of destitution, experienced a thousand sudden calamities, and reached the utmost degree of weakness - when the celestial Star illumined the horizon of Iran, they found spiritual revival and attained enthusiasm and attraction of heart and soul.   AB05663

For example, Iran was independent for eight hundred years, yet this independence was never beneficial. Day by day it declined until Iran was laid waste, especially in recent times. Now for nearly twenty years, the flames of civil war have been burning in Iran. All provinces have been devastated, the people's property has been plundered and pillaged, the earthquake of disorder has shaken Iran, various parties have emerged, and each party having its own desires, they are constantly in conflict and strife.  AB12107

The peoples of Persia are busied with their own selves, and beneath the weight of strife and bloodshed, the majority are weary of life and existence. They seek a refuge; yet there is no place to flee to, no refuge that any one can seek, no haven to repair unto, and no shelter to find, except the Kingdom of Abha that hath caused the whole world to be stirred and shaken, and will, ere long bring about the prosperity of Persia and will cause her peoples to become endeared to them of this world and of the next.  AB03351

You tell them that we declare unto you that that the glories of Persia will become in the future thousandfold. If you don't believe in our declaration make a note of it in a book that a day is soon coming when Persia shall reach the highest zenith of glory, it will be built and become very prosperous. All the ancient cities of Persia will be built up and the fame of Persia and the Persians shall be spread over all the regions of the world and the greatness of the Persian civilization will cover the East and the West.  ABU0434

During the reign of the late Monarch; Fath Ali Shah, even as the Russian troops were crossing the river Aras, the first traitor was Siyyid Fattah - that ignorant cleric who opened wide the gates of Tabriz and welcomed the Russian army thus creating such tumult and agitation in the city as to frighten and alarm the inhabitants, causing the notables to escape, forsaking all their cares and belongings. Once peace and harmony were established, Siyyid Fattah sought refuge in Russia and eventually all his hopes were shattered.  AB01640

Now I have found the opportunity to answer the petitions recently received and forward them to you in this mail. Regarding the subject of Persia: Praise be to God! she became the East of the Sun of Truth in this age. The Light of Eternity dawned, the Everlasting Glory unveiled her countenance and the Reality of Mercifulness became manifest. This is the prosperity of Persia. Undoubtedly she will progress day by day under the shade of the Blessed Tree until her illumination shall penetrate throughout the wide expanse of the earth.  AB00490

Many articles were published in the newspapers that the great, final result of this war would not be bad for Persia. The various political parties in Persia, such as the party of Liberty, the Revolutionary party, the Democratic party, the Unionist party, in brief, all these and other parties brought ruin upon that country. But, God willing, ere long these exiled ones will be assisted to render a most great service to Persia and the Persians, because we are taking hold of every effective means and are connected with important personages.   AB03887

In these days, due to the counsels of Abdu'l-Baha, in all the cities of Iran the friends are reposing in the cradle of peace and security, while during this upheaval all other parties have been in the utmost distress. However, in the regions of Khurasan until now the friends remain caught in the grip of oppression and enmity... while Iran - which in ancient times was the center of humanity and civilization and was renowned throughout the horizons for its nobility - is now caught in such conditions: no modesty or shame, no justice or faithfulness, no fear of God.  AB01948

They imagine that through imitating the people of the West and through the confused thoughts of the people of Iran, Persia will progress. Alas! Alas! Despite God having caused such a brilliant Sun to rise from the horizon of Iran, whose rays have struck both East and West, and having established such a Covenant that is the cause of Iran's eternal glory and the means of progress in all aspects - whether material, moral, or political - this Most Great Force which gives life to Iran, the Iranians are heedless of it and wish to revive Iran through these vain thoughts.  AB00699

The brilliant star of the Persians' hopes had set and vanished in the West for a thousand years. Praise be to God, it has risen from the East of heavenly glory with utmost brilliance and radiance. A new cycle has come, fresh life has been attained. That spiritual spring which for a thousand years until now had passed through seasons of summer, autumn and winter, has come again with utmost freshness and grace with the hosts of divine bounty... Creation has pitched its tent in the plains and wilderness of Iran, and the ultimate hopes and desires of the Persians have been realized.   AB00200

Speaking of Malkam Khan, when the German Emperor gave Bismarck the title of Prince, Nasir'd-Din Shah heard of this and said we should also bestow this title, and thus gave this title to Mirza Malkam Khan. Mirza Malkam Khan spent his life in vain. He was very intelligent and knew several languages, but lacked wisdom. For instance, in Tehran he told Nasir'd-Din Shah that Europe's order, organization and progress was due to their having Freemasonry lodges, and if you establish this too, the same will occur. The Shah accepted this and ordered its establishment, compelling all ministers to join that circle.  ABU3152

But Alas! Alas! still the majority of the inhabitants of Persia are in sound sleep and have not heard, neither are they informed with the Most Eminent Bestowal. The owner of the house has come at the door but the dwellers in the house have shut the door and do not desire to let him in. They have treated the friend as though he was a stranger and the known as though he was unknown. They seem to say: "We are satisfied with this degradation. We are comfortable amidst all these distractions, dissipations, groveling dirt and uncleanliness. We do not want the owner of the house. We are not seeking his Faith."   ABU1795

It is clear and evident that you have never entertained any thoughts of self and have always, with pure intent, been engaged in service to the Cause of God. And praise be to God, you are assisted and confirmed. You wrote about conditions in Iran - that there is depression and inflation. Until Iran becomes illumined with the lights of faith, that is, until the horizons of Iran are brightened by the lights of the Blessed Beauty's teachings, comfort, tranquility, prosperity, success and progress in all degrees will not be achieved. Otherwise, different factions are constantly in conflict and strife, causing the ruin of Iran.  AB00989

I pray and seek ease for humanity, but humanity itself becomes the cause of difficulty. It is as if someone builds an edifice while another destroys it. Throughout Europe and America, we strived until we raised high the reputation of Iran and made people love Iran and made Iranians prominent in the eyes of all. But the thoughtlessness of Iranians destroys whatever we build. We wish to prove that Iranians are the foremost reformers of the world and the greatest well-wishers of humanity, and that they have always served and continue to serve the world of humanity, yet Iranians rise up against each other in bloodshed within Iran itself.   ABU1133

In these days Iran is in turmoil, the fire of oppression is ablaze, truthfulness, sincerity and justice are concealed, while tyranny, corruption and oppression prevail. Glory be to God! Most of the people of Iran are observed to be deprived of human virtues. They have ever cursed and reviled the Sunnis while praising themselves, but divine justice did not remain hidden and shone forth like the sun from the horizon of will. This Wronged One beareth witness that no party in the world hath been more heedless, more rejected, and more foolish than the Shi'ih party. They are sheer ignorance, yet consider themselves the repository of knowledge.   BH01114

The Blessed Beauty appeared at a time when the countries of Iran were immersed in such darkness and ignorance and consumed by the most extreme fanatical prejudices. You have undoubtedly read in detail about the character, conduct and thoughts of the Iranians in recent centuries as recorded in European histories, so there is no need to repeat it. Suffice it to say that the country had reached such a state of degradation that all foreign travelers lamented how this nation, which in earlier centuries had attained the highest degree of glory and civilization, had now fallen so low and lay in ruins, its very foundation destroyed, and its people reduced to a primitive state.  AB00029

Justice and truthfulness have become so absent and concealed that no trace thereof can be found amongst the people. The horizons of the heaven of truth have been darkened by the gloom of the people of hypocrisy. Most of the decrees of the administrative circles of Iran have been and continue to be contrary to that which justice and fairness command. They have no purpose save vain ornaments. Day and night they are occupied with plunder and pillage. The affairs of the Threshold are entirely conducted through consultation with the pretenders. What they have taken, they have not returned to its owner. Outwardly they appeared in agreement, but inwardly they were discovered to be hypocrites. They had and have no desire save the seizing of wealth.  BH00156

O thou who art firm in the Covenant! At a time when the previous National Assembly was at the height of its power, and the Shah himself sent the Prime Minister to Qum to welcome the divines and return them to Tehran with utmost respect and consideration, and when they arrived in Tehran, all the people and the government received them with the highest honor and dignity, welcoming them with great pomp, and for three days and nights they held celebrations, and the National Assembly was formed - some of the followers of Yahya gained complete influence in the Assembly and engaged in corruption, setting the government and nation against each other until matters reached such a point that they were determined to depose the Shah and enthrone another.  AB00113

Through the great bounty of the Merciful Lord, I hope that each of these newcomers will become the cause of Iran's progress and the nobility of Iranians. Indeed, may they shine like lamps in the assembly of the world and gleam like bright stars from the horizon of the world...Many centuries passed during which Iran's luminous morning had set in the west of obscurity. Now praise be to God, a brilliant dawn and gleaming morning light has shone forth from Iran's horizon upon all regions. That light, like the breaking dawn, is spreading and will soon encompass the world. It will illumine the dark world with divine lights and bestow celestial radiance. Iran will become the center of divine inspirations and the source of endless bounties for humanity. At that time the star of Persia's ancient glory will rise from the holy dawning-place.  AB01267

In this luminous age, which is the mighty century of the Lord, when from the rays of the Sun of Truth the lights of civilization have spread to all regions, and human perfections and divine virtues are diffused like the dawning light in East and West to such a degree that savagery and bloodthirstiness among humankind have become abandoned customs--nay, in civilized countries entirely forgotten--and when religious persecutions have wholly ceased and ignorant prejudices been nullified, and among peoples and tribes, aside from international wars and political thoughts, no conflict, contention or strife remains, and all nations and peoples rest in the cradle of peace and security, and all communities are safe from the evil of oppressors and protected in an impregnable fortress--yet in Iran, when the divine call was raised and the luminous dawn broke and the Sun of Truth shone forth, souls who had been rescued from the lowest depths of ignorance attained the highest degrees of humanity and became the center of divine inspirations.  AB00010

Today Iran, nay rather the East and the West, has attained a wondrous readiness to hear the call of the Most Merciful Lord. Ears have opened and souls are seeking to hear the mystery.  AB04370

For many centuries the horizon of Persia was shrouded in darkness and the country of Iran was an open arena for the Arab, Turk and Tajik. Now the Sun of the Universe on High hath shone forth from the Orient of Glory and its Zodiacal Tower was the region and province of Persia. Therefore the Zoroastrians must commemorate that day like unto the auspicious New Year's day and occupy their time in celebrating the praises and commendations of the Forgiving Lord with the utmost joy and gladness. AB09146

The radiance of the Persians had set for a time in the west of forgetfulness, but now it hath risen again from the east of the Creator's grace with a new splendor and boundless grandeur, manifesting such might and majesty that it hath illumined the horizons and set all creation in motion. Every tongue hath been moved to praise, and all hearts have been stirred to excitement.  AB09313

The first musician of Persia is Barbod who lived about 2000 yrs ago. He is the first man who translated these pleasant sounds into the voice of man...The second musical genius of Persia is "Faraby" who lived 1000 yrs ago and invented the musical notes. The Europeans claim that they are the ones who originated the notes but the book of "Faraby" was found in the Arabian Library of Spain and sets at naught such a claim.  ABU0556
