This is not the plane of perfection, but earth is the crucible for refining and moulding character   ABU2410


The world of nature is a world of defects and incompleteness. The world of the Kingdom is reached by the highway of Religion and is Heaven of all Divine Virtues.  ABU1956


When thou dost contemplate creation, thou wilt observe the signs of ancient wisdom and power. God hath perfected the creation of all things. This pertains to the world of physical existence, but even more magnificent than this, in the realm of realities and meanings, the divine handiwork hath a wondrous radiance - such perfection that the wise are left bewildered.  AB09263

These people have studied many years to prepare themselves for their various vocations but the bees and ants are ready to occupy themselves with their duties as soon as they are born. An architect must study several years before he can practice but the bee without any study is a perfect architect.  ABU0216

Nature is the material world. When we look upon it, we see that it is dark and imperfect. For instance, if we allow a piece of land to remain in its natural condition, we will find it covered with thorns and thistles; useless weeds and wild vegetation will flourish upon it, and it will become like a jungle. The trees will be fruitless, lacking beauty and symmetry.   ABU0104

Nature is worshipped by scientists because of the wonderful laws found there, but did you ever realize that Nature is very imperfect, is almost chaotic, until man inspired of the Spirit comes to direct her. Look around at your city. Darkness would be over everything unless man would take natural electricity, a strong power, and make it light the streets and houses.  Thus, too, plants, animals, and even man, the product bodily of nature, are imperfect. It remains for something to come from outside to make them organize and advance.  ABU2953

As he progresses in his art he will be impressed more and more with the perfection of God's creation in producing the ever expansive varieties of plants and vegetations.   ABU2791

The materialists hold to the opinion that the world of nature is complete. The divine philosophers declare that the world of nature is incomplete. There is a wide difference between the two.  ABU0109

When a man has the vices of lying, dishonesty, tyranny, deceit, these are impurities that have attacked his human spirit, and he is dark, animal, satanic. Such evil qualities are characteristic of the world of nature.  ABU1421

Nature is very imperfect, is almost chaotic, until man inspired of the Spirit comes to direct her. Look around at your city. Darkness would be over everything unless man would take natural electricity, a strong power, and make it light the streets and houses.  ABU2953

By the grace of God a perfection of good qualities is natural for every existing thing. In the attainment of that perfection is its high estate or paradise; in the failing to attain thereto, or in its loss after it has been attained, is its low estate, or condition of hell.  ABU0927

On the other hand 'Absolute Perfection' is unattainable by man. However much a man may advance yet is he imperfect; because there is always a point ahead of him. No sooner he looks up toward that point he become dissatisfied with his own condition and aspires to attain to it.  ABU1778

Hence, the imperfections and defects of the world of creation, the contingent world, are merely the absence of virtues and the lack of perfections. These defects have not come from the Source; rather, the essential properties of the world of matter which are change and transformation cause the training of all things and the manifestation of perfections of realities and spirits.  ABU2463

All beings, whether universal or particular, were created perfect and complete from the beginning. The most one can say is that their perfections only become apparent gradually. For example, all the vegetable perfections existed in this seed at the outset but were invisible and appeared only gradually. But from the beginning of its formation all of these existed potentially, albeit invisibly, in the seed.  AB00722

For example, if this tree were to become entirely fruit, the perfections of the vegetable kingdom could not be attained, for leaves, blossoms, and fruit are all needed for the tree to appear in the utmost beauty and perfection. Consider likewise the body of man, which must of necessity be composed of different parts, limbs, and organs. The beauty and perfection of the human body require the existence of the ear, the eye, the brain, and even the nails and hair: If man were all brain, eyes, or ears, this would be tantamount to imperfection.  AB01359

When one examines creation with a penetrating eye, when one grasps the intricacies of created things and witnesses the condition, the order, and the completeness of the world of existence, one is convinced of the truth that there is naught in creation more wondrous than that which already exists. For all existing things, whether on earth or in the heavens, even this limitless firmament and all that it contains, have been most befittingly created, arranged, composed, ordered, and completed, and suffer no imperfection.  AB00278

For it is said by His Holiness the Bab that the degree of Perfection reached by a thing is its Paradise. That is, when a thing is developed to the highest point possible for it, it has reached its paradise; while its failure is its hell.  ABU2900

"We have indeed created man in the best of forms." Thus everything in its station is perfect, needing nothing else, as the Truth, glorified be He, indicated: "No imperfection canst thou see in the creation of the God of Mercy" and His words, exalted and glorified be He: "The nature made by God in which He hath made mankind; there is no altering of God's creation."  BB00354
