Now he has been given permission to return  AB12721

Thou art permitted to come, but next year.  AB09296

arrived safe and protected in this Holy Land  AB06802

You have permission to visit the Holy Shrine   AB01506

You too have permission to come in the future   AB06904

Permission to come has also been given to him.   BH02432

We have made several pilgrimages on your behalf   AB03114

You have permission to visit the Blessed Shrine.  AB09275

You had sought permission to attain His presence.  AB08690

'if it was possible for her to travel with ease'   AB11473

They have sought permission to attain Our presence  BH10435

Permission is granted [for visit to Sacred House]   AB06025

"and afterwards to become honored with pilgrimage"   AB05539

His Honor, the respected Khalil Bey has now arrived.  AB12090

You and friends have permission to come to New York.  AB11317

he has permission to visit the Holy Shrine in America  AB10707

You had requested permission to attain the presence.   AB07401

After that you have permission to attain the presence.  AB04203

The maid-servant of God, Zeenat, is permitted to come.  AB06547

Permission is granted for pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine  AB11397

Permission is granted for pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine.  AB04098

Permission for attaining the presence will be given later  AB02355

Permission for pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine is granted.   AB11500

Permission is granted for pilgrimage to the purified tomb   AB06383

And Jinab-i-Mir Karim is permitted to attain the presence.  AB03971

You and your family have permission to attain the presence  AB08657

One of the brethren has permission to attain the presence.  AB11375

Permission is granted for pilgrimage to the Holy Threshold.  AB10971

Rest assured that I shall soon see your delicate little face  AB10617

Both he and you have permission to visit the Holy Threshold   AB02356

permission has been granted for him to proceed to the prison   BH02252

Thou art permitted to come alone to visit this luminous Spot.  AB02802

Permission for presence at the Holy Shrine will be given later.  AB06129

Permission for attaining His presence is granted for next winter.  AB07402

The honor of pilgrimage will, God willing, be achieved in due time  AB06335

If you have great longing to attain my presence, you are permitted.  AB09928

You have permission to visit the Holy Shrine without family members.  AB07784

God willing, permission for a visit will be given at the proper time   AB03426

Aqa Mirza Jalal and Aqa Muhammad Taqi have permission for visitation   AB01403

O my dear son! If you wish to travel to America, you have permission.   AB01803

His honor, Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, has been permitted to leave for America  AB11534

You had asked permission to attain the presence - permission is granted  AB09950

You are permitted to visit the circling-place of the Supreme Concourse.  AB07279

You had sought permission to attain the presence - its time will come.   AB05071

God willing, permission for presence will be given at a suitable time.   AB03402

"You have permission to attain the honor of visiting the Holy Shrine."   AB01362

Permission has been granted for them to proceed to the appointed place.   BH03250

Whenever thou desirest, thou art permitted to proceed from here to India  AB09917

We have granted thee permission to be present at this flourishing House.  AB10669

Thou hadst sought permission to attain His presence - for now be patient.  AB09529

Permission for attaining the presence will be given at the appointed time  AB07101

Jinab-i-Aqa 'Abdu'l-Karim Sarvestani is permitted to attain the presence.  AB06199

Haji Rida has attained the presence. He must give thanks to God for this.   BH07031

Write that they should come on Thursday so that a meeting may take place.   BH05062

"And Jenab Aqa Muhammad Sadiq Khabbaz is permitted to attain the presence"  AB04930

Thou hadst sought permission to attain My presence. For now, show patience.  AB09529

Aqa Suhrab has permission to visit the Holy Shrine, but in the coming winter  AB10728

You too are permitted to attain His presence whenever possible in the future  AB09584

His honor Ardeshir and his brother Bahman have permission to go to America.   AB11585

From the glad tidings of deputizing in pilgrimage, utmost joy was attained.   AB11918

Permission for circumambulation of the Ka'bah of the Intended One is granted.  AB09167

With the assured leaf, his wife, you have permission to visit the Holy Shrine   AB04698

You have permission for attainment to His presence with those who are permitted  AB12775

Permission is granted for pilgrimage to the precincts of the Supreme Concourse.  AB07951

you are permitted to come to the Holy Land in perfect comfort, joy and gladness  AB08338

It is my hope that some day you may come to the Holy Spot and meeting be realized  AB05676

though it be contrary to wisdom, leave hath been granted for a visit of three days  BH03445

"A strong prohibition is necessary against the friends turning toward this spot."   BH06423

Although the condition of this land is not known, yet permission hath been granted.  BH07891

Regarding the Russian lady you had written about, you have permission to visit her.  AB04798

Permission is granted for you and your brother to circumambulate the Blessed Shrine.  AB07729

'Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza 'Ali-Akbar Sidqani has permission to visit the Sacred Threshold'   AB05555

Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Musa of Kalih-Darrih is granted permission to attain the presence.   AB05796

Permission for circumambulation of the Ka'bah of the Divine Purpose is granted to you.  AB09167

Therefore, with utmost longing thou must set forth to visit the Friend's dwelling place.  AB10914

The maid-servant of GOD, ------ ----, has permission to present herself in the Presence.  AB03460

God willing, in a seasonable time, permission will be given to thee to come to the East.   AB07336

He [conveyed your wish] in asking permission for pilgrimage; that permission is granted.   AB00510

Be sure to show attention and consideration to the divine friends who come for pilgrimage.  AB12263

Now too, with the permission and leave of this servant of the True One, set out for Iran.   AB08045

Thou hadst asked permission to attain the presence. Be patient for now, the time will come.  AB08210

God willing, you will attain to pilgrimage and witness kindness and be freed from formality.  AB05267

Jinab-i-Aqa Abdul-Rahim Taqi-of has permission to attain the presence in the coming spring.   AB01185

You dwelt for a time in the Holy Land and were present at God's feast in the meadow of Akka   AB07483

His honor Mirza Habibollah and Mirza Azzizollah Khan have permission to take a trip to Europe  AB11229

Thou hadst sought permission to attain His presence. Be patient for now - its time will come.  AB08282

As for presence in the Holy Land, travel is difficult at present - defer it to another time.   AB05596

You have permission to visit the Holy Shrine, may my spirit be sacrificed for its threshold.   AB02929

Permission is granted for pilgrimage to the point of circumambulation of the Supreme Concourse   AB05347

Now they must be occupied with service and defer pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine to another time.   AB03442

God willing, whenever I return to the Holy Land, thou shalt have permission to attain My presence.  AB09530

However, at present there is an important matter at hand - you must come quickly to the Holy Land.  AB08226

If you feel that separation may destroy you, you are permitted to come for a visit for some days.   AB06929

You, along with some of the friends, have permission to attain Our presence at the end of winter.   AB02530

Therefore you have permission to come, but on condition that it be in the utmost joy and fragrance   AB03379

You hastened with soul and body and found no rest until you reached the vicinity of the Holy Shrine.   AB05243

Permission for pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine has been granted to Haji Husayn-'Ali and Haji Lu?f-'Ali.   AB06839

Permission to attain the presence had previously been revealed and sent down from the Most Exalted Pen.  BH05623

In this prohibition [from visiting Haifa] there is a providence which will become manifest before long.  AB11084

O servant of God! Give thanks to God, for thou hast come to the Holy Land, visited the Sacred Threshold  AB11266

If the means for travel become available, you have permission to come with the utmost joy and fragrance  AB09949

Jinab-i-Yusuf Khan arrived and today set out for America. May he be confirmed and assisted, God willing.  AB09274

Although you did not arrive, may you be counted among those who attained and among the accepted pilgrims  AB04702

When arrangements are made that you may come in joy and fragrance, you have permission for next winter.   AB05332

After affairs are settled and organized, whenever appropriate thou art permitted to attain the presence.  AB06074

O friends! You had asked permission for a visit - postpone it to another time, for now is not suitable.   AB11871

you entered the Spot of Paradise and attained the presence and saw and heard the call of the Wronged One   BH10901

Those two believers who asked permission to visit the Holy Shrine are permitted to do so with their son.   AB02730

After you are released from military service, you have permission to attain the presence of the Holy Land.  AB09052

Whenever circumstances permit, with the utmost joy and fragrance you have permission to attain the presence   AB06244

As for the matter of attaining His presence, God willing, permission will be granted at the appropriate time.  AB11026

Regarding pilgrimage, the time is not suitable now. God willing, it will be made possible at its proper time.  AB08430

Permission for attaining His presence will, God willing, come later. Affairs unfold in their appointed time.   AB06756

And after you have established your affairs and renewed the means of livelihood, you have permission to come.   AB02905

And before your journey to distant lands, if you wish to come to Haifa for several days, there is no objection.  AB11010

Now you have donned, with utmost longing, the pilgrim's garb for circumambulating the Ka'bah of the Intended One  AB06870

You asked permission to hasten to these regions during Naw-Ruz with Jenab-i-Khajeh Ibrahim. You have permission.   AB01576

as for Jasim, he is permitted to come on condition that he remain in Akka for three days, as I am away in Tiberias  AB07718

You had requested permission to attain the presence - be patient for now and God willing it will be made possible.  AB05358

Thou hadst asked permission to attain His presence. At present wisdom doth not permit it. Leave it for another time  AB12673

"Thou hast written regarding thy coming to the Holy Land; do not hasten, for then thou mayest travel with comfort."  AB01389

As for coming to this blessed spot, it is forbidden now, but in the future the desire will be fulfilled, God willing  AB07735

it was presented before the Master and the sun of permission shone forth for them to proceed to the Most Great Prison  BH02368

You had requested permission to attain My presence. These days are not free from obstacles - defer it to another time  AB12305

You had sought permission to attain the presence... At the appointed time, permission for attainment will be granted.  AB12355

For now, postpone it until such time as Shah Khalil resolves to visit the Promised Land - you too are then permitted.  AB11710

Despite the prohibition on entry, out of consideration and kindness toward you permission for his presence was granted  AB12308

Four individuals - Mirza Javad, Aqa Yusuf-'Ali, Mulla Yusuf-'Ali and Aqa Hassan have permission to attain His presence  AB10416

It is not permissible for anyone to journey to this land at present. We shall inform thee when it becomes permissible.  AB07793

Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Abu-Talib has permission to attain the presence, and likewise Aqa Ahmad and Aqa Muhammad Qumushai.   AB05733

Regarding thy presence, at this time, in this Brilliant Spot--it is not in accord with the wisdom revealed in the Book.  AB06458

At the appropriate time, God willing, we will grant you permission for pilgrimage. [At present] wisdom requires this.   AB03565

Permission for presence dependeth upon the exigencies of wisdom. If circumstances warrant, they may present themselves   BH05495

As to the matter of being present in these days, it is not possible, but permission will be granted at its proper time.  AB10602

Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Abbas Khan and the handmaid of God Sakinih have permission to attain the presence in the coming spring  AB12615

In these days since the Holy Land is in utmost turmoil, you should delay your presence and postpone it to another time.   AB06659

Some of the friends intended to visit the Holy Land, but hindrances prevented them and they have deferred their coming.   AB07126

Permission for attainment [to my presence] was given to Salar and likewise to the descendant of the late Qavam-i-Divan.   AB03285

You must certainly send the photograph of the Holy House to Jinab-i-Shaykh 'Ali-Akbar-i-Quchani in Baku with utmost speed  AB10825

In these days there are obstacles to presence in the Holy Land. God willing, permission will be given at the proper time.  AB07997

As for the matter of severing ties from that land and being present at the luminous Spot, it is not fitting at this time   AB05401

I will certainly grant permission to you and your gracious son to circumambulate the Holy Shrine, but be somewhat patient  AB01338

Furthermore, prevent the friends from turning towards this spot, for the situation in this land is difficult and arduous.   BH01335

As to thy coming to this land, there is no harm in that. Thou art permitted to come and this is an ample reward unto thee.  AB05945

Those who intended pilgrimage and, due to upheaval at the Holy Shrine, were not granted permission to attain His presence   AB00642

And regarding that honored one's journey to the Most Holy Court, permission is granted to journey for a few days and return  BH10796

Now he has been given permission and leave to return and to be gladdened by the sight of the beloved faces of the friends.   AB04909

those two individuals who requested permission for pilgrimage, and whose permission was delayed due to wisdom in the Cause   AB03945

Then did the Sun of permission shine forth from the horizon of the heaven of thy Lord's command, the Almighty, the Powerful.  BH10722

permission has been granted for that beloved one to attain the honor of His presence - whenever you decide, you may proceed   BH01750

Whenever it becomes possible for you to journey in comfort and ease to the Ka'bah of the Divine Purpose, you have permission  AB07593

You had requested permission for two people - Aqa Mahdi Hakim Yusuf and Aqa Isma'il - to attain presence. They are permitted   AB03867

You attained the blessing of pilgrimage to the sacred dust and made the soil of His threshold the healing balm for your eyes   AB06785

Blessed art thou for having attained the presence of God time and again, and for having inquired of Him in this remote prison.  BH05157

Your beloved daughter and the apple of your eye has been honored to visit the Holy Land and has made pilgrimage on your behalf.  AB09621

You had sought permission to attain the presence. Whenever travel becomes comfortable and pleasant you have permission to come.  AB06272

And regarding some friends who were not outwardly granted permission for attaining the presence - this was due to divine wisdom.  BH05902

And if the means for travel become available, you are permitted to turn with the utmost joy and fragrance toward the Holy Land.   AB06625

God willing, in the coming year His Honor 'Ali-Rida Khan will be enabled to visit the Holy Threshold and meet with 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB07256

If possible, proceed with the utmost joy and delight to the path of the Friend - you have permission for attaining the presence   AB03714

In these days, pilgrimage to the Sacred Shrine is forbidden due to wisdom. God willing, permission shall be granted in the future.  AB12489

Aqa Muhammad Hasan, upon him be the Glory of God the Most Glorious, is granted permission to circumambulate the Supreme Concourse.  AB05827

His honor Aqa Husayn-'Ali, nephew of Safi-'Ali Shah, has permission to attain the presence whenever travel arrangements are ready   AB11759

After I return, the means may be in place for thee to attain thy highest desire and with Zibandih Khanum visit the Holy Threshold.  AB10473

Two days ago your son came and was specifically requested, and for some time was present and honored before the Beloved's presence   BH02732

You had asked permission to come into my presence. I too am extremely eager, but your presence there is very necessary at present.   AB11946

if any one of them is able to travel with perfect ease and joy and delight, they have permission to visit the blessed resting place   AB02823

Now he has been granted leave from the precincts of the seat and resting place of the Most Great Throne to return to those regions.   AB02298

However, do not hasten pilgrimage to the Holy Land, for his presence in those regions during these days is necessary and obligatory   AB11695

In these days, permission is not given to anyone, but purely for your sake, permission is given to the two sons of Aga Mirza Khalil.   AB07556

The leaf, thy wife, hath attained Our presence and been honored with visiting on behalf of the handmaidens of God who dwell in ?adba.   BH02421

You had written concerning permission for circumambulation of the Holy Shrine...Now a brief response is written that you are permitted  AB10824

At the appointed time, which accords with consummate wisdom, permission for attaining the presence shall also be granted, God willing.  AB07380

"My longing to see thee is even more ardent than thine. God willing, in due course permission will be granted - rest assured thereof."  AB03744

"Although in these days travelling to the land of the heart's desire is not permitted, thou and Mrs. Maxwell have permission to come."  AB02989

likewise permission to attain the presence was granted to Jinab-i-Musa, upon him be my Glory, from the Dawning-Place of the Divine Will  BH06122

Thou hast asked permission to come to our presence: These days are very difficult. God willing, it will be brought about in the future.  AB09477

If there is some delay in granting permission for some to attend at this blessed spot, this is due to the wisdom set forth in the Book   AB04353

Previously it was written to Jinab-i-Amin that you were permitted, and a letter was written to Jinab-i-Shari'atmadar which is enclosed.  AB11150

I know the ardor which enflames you both with the desire to present yourselves in the Sacred Place and I desire, also, to see you both.   AB05897

Thou hadst asked permission to present thyself in this Holy Land. At present this is not advisable. Postpone this matter to another time.  AB08502

Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Musa of Kalih-Darih and Jinab-i-Aqa Qasim of Ishtihard have permission to attain the presence, but in the coming winter   AB01809

As for Aqa Muhammad Hasan Aqa 'Ali-Naqi, in accordance with your request, permission has been granted for his presence at the Holy Shrine.  AB09256

Praise be to God that thou didst arrive in the Most Great Prison and didst attain the presence of the Wronged One in thy comings and goings  BH03435

Blessed art thou, O servant, for having migrated in the path of God and for having drunk the choice wine of revelation from this Great Sea.  BH04064

After the return of my brother, if the means for comfortable travel are ready and available, you have permission to come into my presence.   AB07258

Once again thou hast come to visit this exile, and donned the pilgrim's garb to circumambulate the gathering-place of the Concourse on High  AB12660

Whenever your hearts become constricted there, you are welcome to come visit the Holy Shrine at any time you wish - you will be most welcome   AB05397

As the route is disturbed and ease of travel is not possible, therefore be patient and postpone your intention of pilgrimage to another time.   AB04667

You have the thought of traveling to Iran. This is very blessed. My hope is that after visiting the Holy Land you will be successful in this.   AB05220

"You had sought permission to come into the presence, but wisdom does not permit it at this time as these regions are very hot in these days."  AB02659

I long to see them all, but the time is not favorable. Whenever an opportunity arises and there is no difficulty, permission will be granted.   AB01818

You had sought permission to attain His presence. For now, show patience and forbearance. In the future, God willing, permission will be granted.  AB08596

Regarding your spring travel, if you make a journey to Germany and come from there to the Holy Land, that would be suitable. You have permission.  AB01265

We have given thee permission and have recorded for thee the reward of attaining His presence through My Most Exalted Pen in My perspicuous Book.   BH09912

nevertheless this time it was decided that he would take his family and proceed to the Most Holy Court and engage in a certain matter in this land   BH10258

As for your request for permission regarding the mother of Inayatu'llah, He said that this year, due to certain considerations, it is not advisable  BH01991

We have granted thee permission and have revealed for thee that which will draw thee to the Most Exalted Horizon, this glorious and wondrous station.  BH11777

As for their request for pilgrimage, it was accepted by proxy for that beloved one. We beseech God to accept the deeds, and surely they are accepted.  BH01308

Thou hast asked permission to come in the presence. If the means are brought about that traveling may be made with utmost ease, thou hast permission.  AB10048

if there is no obstacle or hindrance, and it is easily possible, put on the garment of presence and attain the honor of visiting the Sacred Threshold  AB06867

Regarding the beloved's journey, permission has been granted that they may proceed whenever they wish. This is glad tidings from this servant to you.   BH01603

The Persian gentlemen and Faruqi are proceeding toward their destination to perfume their faces and hair with the dust of the holy and fragrant shrine  AB10161

You have permission to attain the presence whenever possible. If circumstances permit with utmost joy and fragrance, he has permission for pilgrimage.   AB01412

Regarding your request for permission to attain His presence, you are permitted to circumambulate the Point around which circle the Concourse on High.   AB00229

whenever it has been made possible for thee to undertake a trip to the Holy Land in the utmost joy and fragrance, thou art permitted to present thyself   AB07536

After several years, we have given Jinab-i-Mirza Mahram and Jinab-i-Zarqani leave to circumambulate the Centre round which circle the Concourse on High.  AB05279

If undertaking affairs requires going to Istanbul, permission is granted. Otherwise, you have direct permission for pilgrimage to the Most Exalted Shrine  AB04091

O 'Ali! Thou didst intend to circumambulate the Most Exalted Paradise and the Supreme Heaven. Therefore the requirements of divine wisdom decree a delay.   BH06172

As for what Muhammad Mustafa, upon him be the Glory of God, has written on your behalf requesting permission to attain the presence - this was presented.   BH00882

You had expressed your utmost desire to attain the presence of the sacred threshold of the One Who conversed on Sinai. Permission for presence is granted.  AB08570

Convey to Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza 'Abbas Khan the Most Wondrous, Most Glorious greetings from 'Abdu'l-Baha. He has permission to attain my presence next winter.  AB12073

If Mr. Mirza Asadu'llah-i-Mazandarani is able to hasten to Najaf and meet with the aforementioned person with utmost courtesy, it would be most appropriate   AB04848

Your honored son Aqa Muhammad-Rida has repeatedly attained the presence of God on your behalf, and now as your representative circles round the Holy Shrine.  AB07875

Your honored mother attained the blessing of visiting the Sacred Threshold, and you too are permitted to attain His presence whenever possible in the future.  AB09584

And you yourself had requested permission to attain the presence. At present, the wisdom of the Cause of God requires that you not leave those regions empty   AB06995

Don your pilgrim garb for the Ka'bah of the intended goal and turn your face to the circumambulation point of the Supreme Concourse, for you have permission.  AB03503

Say: None is permitted to turn toward the prison quarter. Thus hath the Tongue of Revelation decreed and the Pen of God, the Beloved of the worlds, recorded.   BH05449

It would be very good if before going to Iran you could pass by the Holy Shrine - perhaps through God's help and grace one hour of meeting would be possible.   AB07571

Permission is granted for you to visit the Threshold that is the sanctuary of the Supreme Concourse. Blessed art thou and glad tidings be unto thee for this.   AB04581

Permission was previously granted for the journey of Aqa Muhammad Isma'il and thyself, however it must be carried out according to the requirements of wisdom.   BH09473

We have therefore granted thee permission to proceed to this exalted quarter. In any case, shouldst thou desire to journey to this quarter, thou art permitted.   BH08099

We had given permission to you both aforetime to turn towards the countenance of God, the Mighty, the Praised, but the time passed until the occasion was gone.   BH05674

Therefore, with the blessing of these words of yours, you are permitted to don the pilgrim's garb of the Ka'bih of the divine purpose and make one journey here.   AB06636

As to what his honor Ha', upon him be all the Most Glorious and Most Resplendent Glory, had requested regarding permission for his brother to attain the presence   BH05336

Although at this time, due to wisdom, permission for visits is not being granted, yet the Persian friends are permitted to come, but two by two or three by three.  AB10978

Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Asadu'llah has requested permission for you to travel to the western lands to spread the divine fragrances and arise to exalt the Word of God.   AB03193

As for thy father and mother, they are highly respected by Abdul-Baha but their presence in the Holy Land is not presently in accordance with wisdom. Let them wait.  AB02676

Haji Iman traversed mountain and desert, crossed wilderness and sea, until he arrived at the blessed, luminous Shrine and prostrated himself at its most holy threshold  AB12514

Husayn hath appeared before Our presence and circumambulated the House, attaining unto that which was inscribed in the Books of God, the Lord of the seen and the unseen.   BH09348

Praise God that you laid your head at the Sacred Threshold and fell prostrate upon the dust of the Court, turned toward the Divine Presence and sang songs of thanksgiving   AB03125

Regarding your request for permission to attain His presence, be patient for now. God willing, it will be granted at the appropriate time. At present, wisdom requires this  AB09087

As for the arrangements for the visit, with wisdom it depends upon drawing lots and the consent of both parties, for if all were to set out at once it would cause disputes.  BH02414

Whenever the ways will be opened and the means will be fully provided by which thou mayest travel in perfect comfort and ease then thou hast permission to present thyself.   AB06336

He has requested permission for presence during this journey. You should write a letter to him wherever he may be on my behalf stating that he has permission for presence.   AB02501

His honor Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'l-Husayn, with utmost eagerness, enthusiasm and speed set out to visit the Blessed Shrine. However, before reaching its vicinity he was prevented   AB01273

Those souls who have requested permission to circumambulate the gathering-place of the Supreme Concourse are permitted, provided they are able to come and return in comfort.  AB07215

At this hour the luminary of permission hath dawned from the Dayspring of divine Will, and We have commanded that Jinab-i-Husayn, thy helper, appear by proxy before the Face   BH03047

Thou didst request permission to attain His presence. At present the roads are in disorder and travel is difficult. God willing, when it becomes easier, thou hast permission.   AB12078

Whenever it is suitable I will give thee permission and consent to come to these parts, but now thou must stay in America and become the cause of the guidance (of the people.)  AB06281

God willing, I shall later grant you permission to attain My presence, and you shall enter the blessed shrine and attain to the circumambulating-point of the Concourse on High.  AB12451

Concerning your request for permission to attain the presence, show patience for now. God willing, it will be granted at the appropriate time. At present, wisdom requires this.  AB09087

We have commanded Mishkin, upon him be the Glory of God, Lord of the worlds, to present himself before the Countenance through you and to visit Him Who hath spoken and speaketh   BH04217

You had sought permission to attain the presence. In truth, you are worthy to don the pilgrim's garb for the sanctuary of the Desired One. However, wisdom must still be observed   AB04361

You had requested permission by telegraph for a visit... therefore it would be better if you postpone this journey to autumn so that you would be here at the beginning of winter   AB02693

Jinab-i-Yusuf is permitted to come into the presence, and if your continued presence there is not absolutely necessary and obligatory at present, you are also permitted to come.   AB00798

He endured the hardships of paths by land and sea to attain the presence before the Face of the Wronged One. Praise be to God, he arrived and was blessed with meeting and hearing.   BH05632

Permission was granted. His honor Aqa Siyyid Ali should write and give him the glad tidings of permission, and write on my behalf that he should turn towards the Most Holy Quarter.  BH10254

And concerning what thou didst write regarding pilgrimage to the House of God and seeking permission - it is clear that benevolent deeds have ever been beloved in the sight of God.  BH05513

As for the travelers, they have not been and are not commanded to stay in that land, for if people gather there from outside it will become the cause and reason for certain events.   BH02521

Despite your constant writing that you prevent the friends from turning towards the Most Holy Court so that none might move without God's leave, nevertheless groups arrive each day.  BH01812

Regarding your request to visit the Holy Land which you had written about - in these days wisdom does not permit it. God willing, permission will be granted at the appropriate time.  AB04780

But if he were to travel for a while, it would be better than staying put. Surely peace of mind will result. And whichever direction he desires and prefers to travel would be proper.  AB12377

Therefore, thou art permitted to attain the presence of the Most Glorious Threshold and the circling-place of the Supreme Concourse (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones).  AB08852

Thou hast asked for permission to present thyself with thy dear husband in this Blessed Spot. In these days it in not according to wisdom. Postpone this matter until some other time.  AB06269

O you who thirst for the pure waters of pilgrimage to the sacred threshold, hasten to the spring that is the circling-place of the Supreme Concourse. You are permitted and accepted.   AB03642

Thou hadst requested permission to visit the holy tomb; at present there are some obstacles. For now, occupy thyself with diffusing the divine fragrances until the appointed time comes  AB07958

In any case, the handmaiden of God Maryam requested thy permission which was granted, and she wrote to thee about a month ago and herself traveled, while we were awaiting thy presence.   AB05625

All the holy leaves are visiting the Sacred Threshold of the Divine Unity on your behalf and as your representatives. Rest assured this visitation is accepted, beloved and praiseworthy.  AB04108

At this moment the permission to return hath dawned. Turn thy face toward thy native land. Rejoice thou in this irrevocable decree, the Mighty, the Wise. Return by God's might and power   BH02790

As to thy desire to attain the presence of the Countenance, We have granted thee permission for what thou didst wish, as a bounty from Us unto thee, that thou mayest be of the thankful.   BH06314

Regarding the handmaiden of God, Farrukh, thou hadst written that she desires to attain His presence that she may engage in service. For thy sake, permission for her presence is granted.  AB08967

Thou hadst requested permission to attain the Holy Threshold. In these days, the tests and trials in the Desired Land are severe, therefore I have postponed thy presence to another time   AB04978

In any case, send her here now for pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine and for a change of climate, and after being honored by pilgrimage and obtaining rest and health, she can proceed to Iran.   AB02809

Mr. Ardeshir, like a lion, made his way to the luminous forest and, like a fierce lion, reached these thickets. In this wilderness he roared, and at the Supreme Threshold he offered worship  AB08718

You had requested permission to turn towards the Land of Purpose [Holy Land]. At present wisdom does not permit it. Be patient. I hope the time will come and this desire will be fulfilled.   AB04362

If there is no obstacle and the means of travel are prepared, thou art permitted to make a trip to the Holy Land, if thou wishest. All the members of the family are very eager to meet you.   AB04456

Thou didst seek permission to attain His presence. At this time it hath been granted, and the luminary of permission hath dawned and appeared from the horizon of the heaven of God's command.  BH03894

thou and thy respected wife are permitted to come next summer, but for others the time is not yet appropriate; wisdom does not allow it. Their presence will be more suitable at another time.  AB11372

Therefore, permission is granted for you to attain the presence of the Most Glorious Threshold and the circling-place of the Supreme Concourse, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones.  AB08852

And if he insists on traveling to this direction, temporary permission is granted for him to make pilgrimage to the Holy Threshold and spend a few days in fellowship with me before returning.   AB05134

The Most Exalted Pen beareth witness to thy acceptance and thy turning towards Him and thy arrival and thy standing before the gate that was opened unto all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH05782

Several days ago, permission to return was granted to the travelers and emigrants. We beseech God that He may enable all to reach their homes and destinations with the utmost joy and fragrance   BH04590

The letter of Bashir brought the glad tidings of your intention to make pilgrimage...At that time, if thou canst obtain permission from the postal administration, then undertake the pilgrimage.  AB12553

although the yearning for attainment unto His presence blazes in the heart, yet now is not the time for his presence, as there are obstacles and impediments. Let it be postponed to another time  AB02411

O pilgrim to the Sacred Threshold! [...] Blessed are they that have attained the Sacred Threshold! Blessed are they that have made pilgrimage to the Spot circled round by the Concourse on High!  AB12014

Regarding visiting at this time, since the summer air in these parts changes due to severe humidity and various illnesses overcome strangers, postpone the pilgrimage to the cool days of winter.   AB02296

Now that thou art returning, thou must journey back with the utmost joy and gladness, and praise the Pure Lord, and open thy tongue in thanksgiving that thou hast been favored with such a bounty.  AB08743

Thou didst seek permission to proceed to the Holy Shrine in company with Hakim Harun. Permission had already been granted for him. If he hath not yet departed, thou art permitted to accompany him.  AB10454

Concerning your presence in the Holy Land: these days it is impossible. Whenever the way is open and the means are available; in order to travel with ease and comfort, you have permission to come.  AB01882

Meeting with the friends and visiting the beloved ones is 'Abdu'l-Baha's greatest joy, but these days do not permit it. When the appointed time has passed, permission for pilgrimage will be sent.   AB11887

Permission is granted. However, since there will be crowds during the Ridvan Festival, it may perhaps cause you some hardship. If you can bear the hardship, very well; otherwise, come after Ridvan.  AB10695

Verily, thy coming, at this time, unto this shining, blessed Holy Land is not consistent with wisdom, but when the (proper) time cometh, we shall give thee permission to come to this Spot of Light.  AB01439

Regarding the honored beloved, his honor Haji Abdul-Karim, upon him be the glory of God and His care, who had asked permission to attain the presence: praise be to God, permission has been granted.   BH03058

Regarding thy desire to attain the presence and meeting, approach from the direction of the Great City is not permitted, but if approached from another direction there is and hath been no objection.  BH02910

In it was written that you have permission to attain the presence, and this permission was specifically granted to you. Many requested this bounty but due to wisdom it was not granted in these days.   AB12105

As to the mention made of Darvish Husayn who desired to come and sought permission - in these days these regions are somewhat disturbed, therefore we beseech God to grant him the reward of pilgrimage.  BH01574

Thy presence here would be contrary to caution in these days...Be assured that, as soon as circumstances permit, thou shalt be summoned here without a moment's delay, for I am most eager to meet thee.  AB05970

We testify that Jinab-i-Ism-i-Jud previously visited the House of God on your behalf, and this year they also intend to do so. God willing, they shall attain and be adorned with the seal of acceptance.  BH07601

God willing, whenever circumstances arise that permit your absence from there, you will be immediately informed so that you may don the pilgrim's garb to the Friend's lane and attain the greatest honor  AB01266

You are longing to meet and are impatient and restless, but what can be done when in these regions wisdom prevents your presence and we are bound by that. Therefore, defer your coming to another time.   AB11769

Since harm in coming and going has befallen the very root of the Tree of the Cause, We have therefore forbidden the friends from attaining the presence - otherwise We would have commanded all to attend   BH05696

As to what you wrote about intending to visit the Holy Land, this was specifically presented before His Most Holy Presence regarding the honored Afnan, upon him be all the most glorious splendor of God.  BH02126

You had requested permission for the presence of Jinab-i-Ghulam-Rida and Jinab-i-Aqa Husayn and their noble children. Now is not a suitable time. God willing, permission will be given in the coming year.  AB03679

Although you undertook the hardship of travel and traversed land and sea, yet praise be to the Ancient Living One that you reached a destination that is the ultimate hope of all who prostrate themselves   AB02732

The brothers Aqa Mashhadi Isma'il, Jinab-i-Karbala'i Mahmud and Jinab-i-Haji Muhammad Aqa have permission to attain the presence, but during the season of pilgrimage when they intend to visit the Ka'bah.  AB03353

Thou didst request permission to attain Our presence. In these days divine wisdom doth not permit such permission to be granted. Be patient, for thy Lord is the All-Patient, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH01296

Forbid the loved ones of God from turning toward this direction. Say: O friends, harm befalleth the root of the Tree through coming and going. Beware lest ye transgress the bounds set forth in the Tablets.  BH06478

Aqa Siyyid Nasir has arrived in the Holy Land and attained the honor of circumambulating the Sacred Tomb. We are sending him to you so that by beholding his countenance you may find joy, delight and gladness.  AB08962

And regarding Aqa 'Ali who is in the great city and has sought permission to attain the presence - permission was granted. Inform him and give him the glad tidings that he may turn towards the Most Holy Court.  BH02645

permission was granted from the Source of Authority for your honor to turn toward the intended destination. Now once again this most exalted and most holy command hath descended from the heaven of divine will.  BH11632

O wise Siyavash! You had intended to circumambulate the Holy Threshold and had donned the pilgrim garment of the Friend's sanctuary. This intention will, God willing, be accepted at the Court of the Divine Unity  AB08770

You had asked permission to attain the presence. For now engage in teaching. After achieving success and victories, God willing, the means will be provided and you will be honored to attain the Sacred Threshold   AB04439

Therefore, permission is granted that in winter, with the utmost longing and eagerness and complete yearning, you may attain the honor of visiting the blessed Spot, the Sacred Threshold, on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB08320

I await your coming and that of your respected daughters either this spring or next spring. You will certainly come, and when coming, if possible pass through Stuttgart, Germany and from there come to the Holy Land  AB03693

Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Ali, the nephew of His Holiness the one ascended unto God from Manshad, has permission to come, on condition that he comes and attains the honor of visiting the Holy Threshold, returns to Shiraz   AB01324

Regarding your request for permission to attain His presence, in these days there are many obstacles, therefore it must be postponed to another time. God willing, this desire will be fulfilled at its appointed time.  AB07914

This year, in view of the sorrow that hath occurred, if His honor 'Ali-Shir should delay and make his pilgrimage to the Ultimate Goal and Most Exalted Summit in another year, it would be more fitting and appropriate.  BH01563

Although the presence of these persons will, in these times, cause the revolt of the heedless ones and increase the trouble, yet for your sake we will send them a telegram to Egypt and permit them to come and visit.   AB03740

The honored handmaiden of God, the wife of Aqa Siyyid Aqa the physician, along with the sister of the honored martyr, are permitted to come if arrangements can be made for them to travel in complete comfort and joy.   AB01243

You, Haji Ali Sayyah and Ali Haydar Khan, if travel is possible for each with utmost joy and fragrance, have permission to attend in winter. Go directly to visit the Shrine and after several days, come wherever I am.  AB02889

His honor Aqa Siyyid Nasru'llah, like the messenger of Saba, arrived at the center of the throne of the Most Glorious Beauty and attained the blessing of circumambulating the gathering place of the Supreme Concourse.   AB07212

Concerning what was written about Aqa Muhammad Mahdi, upon him be God's peace, permission is hereby granted according to His command that he may proceed to the prison and thence to whatsoever God willeth and desireth.   BH00935

The honored Mr. Remey and Mr. Latimer, accompanied by Aqa Mirza Habib and Mirza 'Azizu'llah Khan, have arrived in the Holy Land and, after several days' stay in the utmost joy and delight, have now returned to America.  AB05618

In the coming spring, if circumstances permit and no obstacles arise, then those few who were bidden to be patient may don the pilgrim's garb of the Ka'bah of Purpose and present themselves in utmost joy and fragrance.  AB08406

We bear witness that he hath turned towards Us and traversed land and sea until he reached the Most Great Prison, the Spot wherein the Wronged One was established upon the throne of utterance with manifest sovereignty.   BH09348

Despite obstacles and difficulties, you have borne every kind of hardship from distant places to attain the blessing of pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine of the Exalted One and circumambulation of the Sacred Resting Place.   ABU2843

It is never permissible for anyone to come without permission, although many souls have turned towards the Most Holy Court this year without permission. We beseech God to assist them in what He loves and is pleased with.  BH01307

Although the time is not propitious and there are impediments to being in His presence, nevertheless, since thou hast beseeched and insisted with the utmost humility and self-effacement, there is no choice but to accept.  AB10457

You have permission to attain the presence, but Jinab-i-Aqa Muhammad ?adiq has permission to attain after your return. The intention is that both cannot be present at once - one must come first and the other afterwards.   AB05136

You had hoped for a visit - this intention and resolve is most praiseworthy. However, if there were no obstacles, the Holy Land is in turmoil these days. God willing, you will be granted permission at the appointed time.  AB11976

Therefore it was necessary that permission for presence be given, but what can be done - "necessities permit exceptions" is a famous saying. In truth it weighs heavily upon this servant not to give permission and consent   AB06101

As to their mention of the honored Aqa Siyyid Muhammad-i-Sahhaf, he hath been granted permission to enter. Let him give thanks unto God for this manifest bounty. However, taking up residence in this land is another matter.  BH01316

The Sacred House desired to turn towards God, the Lord of all worlds. We withheld the Pen from giving permission, but at this hour the sun of Will hath shone forth from the horizon of loving-kindness and We have permitted her  BH03180

And now, O beloved of My heart! Thy letter arrived repeatedly, news arrived, and praise be to God, the morn of hope hath dawned, in that, praise be to God, the Sun of loving-kindness hath risen and permission hath been granted.  BH11612

"For a long time thou didst have the longing to visit the Blessed Spot and the yearning to meet this imprisoned one. Finally this gift became realized, but it was for one moment and as the dew to the rose-garden of the hearts."  AB06402

you turned towards Him and, purely for the sake of God, set out from your home intending to reach the Most Great House of God. You bore the hardship of travel and traversed sea and land until you arrived at the Most Great Prison  BH05727

Although I have the utmost longing to see you and seek this joy with all my soul, the wisdom of the Cause requires that you exercise some patience and stillness. God willing, you will be granted permission at the appointed time.  AB06559

Therefore, you are given permission to present yourself at the Divine Threshold, and for one day, two days, three days - nay, for one month - seek refuge at this Threshold and find rest in the vicinity of the mercy of the Lord.   AB07188

This is a book from the Wronged One of the horizons to one of His friends who emigrated from his place until he attained the most exalted horizon and drank the Kawthar of reunion from the hands of the bounty of the Lord of Names.  BH06104

Regarding thy visit to this region, it is not permissible at this time. But when the time comes, permission will be granted thee to present thyself at this Source of Light and Dawning-Point of the love of thy Lord, the Forgiver.   AB04518

God willing, that honored one shall strive with the utmost endeavor in these matters, and if at any time circumstances should require it - that is, if it would in no way conflict with wisdom - he may turn toward the Most Holy Court.  BH03801

Thine intention to pay a visit to the blessed House is acceptable and well-pleasing in the sight of this Wronged One, provided it is accomplished in a spirit of joy and radiance and would not prove contrary to the dictates of wisdom.  BH10068

The honored Haji, your father, arrived in the Most Great Prison and attained the supreme bounty and infinite mercy by achieving the blessing of attaining His presence and was honored by visiting the purified tomb and illumined shrine   AB04752

O pilgrim to the circling-place of divine ones! Praise be to God that you traversed long distances and crossed mountains, deserts and seas until you reached the shelter of the Intended One and kissed the threshold of the All-Merciful.  AB06218

Concerning thy presence in the Land of Desire, for the present postpone (this matter) for some later time until the arrival of summer and the passing of frosty winter. At that time it will be acted upon according to the circumstances.  AB03542

Regarding what you wrote about coming to the Holy Threshold - in these days your presence is needed in those regions, and in the Holy Land turmoil is successive from all directions. Therefore we will summon you at the appropriate time.   AB05990

Regarding pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine - if it can be accomplished with complete security, comfort, and joy during the pilgrimage season, it would be most acceptable. But if it would cause hardship and attacks from enemies, be patient.   AB05025

Thy letter was received. The contents indicated that thou hast the utmost love towards Mr. and Mrs. James Kehler and dost ask permission to come together and be honored with a visit to the Holy Threshold. For thy sake I give permission.   AB05291

Thou hadst asked permission to attain the presence. If it is possible with the utmost joy and fragrance, and if comfort of heart and soul is ready in presence and return, thou art permitted. Otherwise, wait until the means are provided.   AB05610

Now since affairs in this land are in turmoil, therefore the journey of that honored one is difficult. God willing, through divine grace and favor, permission will hereafter be granted at the appropriate time according to what is desired.  BH07120

And since whatever hath befallen thee was in the path of God, therefore there is no harm if thou desirest to turn toward the Most Holy Court - it is beloved. In all conditions thou hast had and hast permission either to remain or to return.  BH03926

As to what you wrote requesting permission to bring someone with you, this was presented and permission was granted. You may bring whomever you wish. Verily our Lord, the All-Merciful, heareth and answereth, and He is the Near, the Watchful.  BH01170

praise be to God, the glad tidings of permission reached him, and now, praise be to God, it is several days that he is present and circumambulating...Praise be to God, the purpose was achieved and they attained unto the blessing of pilgrimage.  BH00758

O visitor to the Sacred Shrine! Praise God that thou didst cross the seas and didst arrive at the shore of the ocean of thy Lord's bounty. Thou didst circumambulate the Sacred Shrine and didst prostrate thyself at the Threshold of His oneness.  AB09386

And regarding his appointing you as his representative to attain the presence - this matter has been accepted. At some time, turn toward it on behalf of the friends of God who were mentioned in the letter, and attain to that which is intended.   BH02899

Your longing to visit the Sacred Soil is expressed and evident and your presence will be the source of pleasure to me. But the best of meetings is the spiritual meeting; for in these days visits to these regions are accomplished with difficulty.  AB08715

a number of travelers who are present in this land have, in accordance with His will, been given permission to depart... so that after attaining the bounty of His presence and meeting... they might return to their homelands with permission and leave   BH04134

Another matter: His Holiness the Afnan, upon him be all the most glorious splendor of God, attained presence for the first time, and again in these days renewed his request for presence. The Sun of Permission dawned and he was favored with this bounty.  BH00225

His honor M.H., upon whom be the glory of God, attained the privilege of visiting the true House and mentioned you. Therefore this Tablet was revealed and sent, that you might drink from it the Kawthar of your Lord's bountiful gifts, the All-Bountiful.   BH06402

As these regions are in turmoil these days, therefore travel to this direction is not advisable. Convey greetings on my behalf and say: "Patience is the key to relief." God willing, after tranquility and assurance return to these parts, you shall attain.  BH01152

Without permission they brought along another person. After arrival he interceded for a group in this land, therefore We pardoned him and he attained the honor of Our presence. Assuredly, had he come with permission his station would have been different.   BH06363

Now you must don the pilgrim garb of the Ka'bah of existence from this land, and on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha set out for the path of the Friend, lay your head at the Sacred Threshold, and perfume your nostrils with the sweet fragrance of the blessed Shrine.  AB12617

Thou hast asked permission to come to our presence: These days are very difficult. God willing, it will be brought about in the future. I pray to God that thou mayest enter into such a state that presence and absence may become equal in thine understanding  AB09477

If the means become available for you to come and return, so that with the utmost joy, delight and complete comfort you may attain the honor of visiting the Threshold, lay your head at the sacred dust, and visit the court of the Friend - you have permission  AB02253

However, if his honor Afnan, upon him be My Baha and loving-kindness, should send someone to that place for the conduct of affairs, so that the aforementioned gentleman might for a few days repair to these parts by way of recreation, this would be pleasing.   BH10866

Concerning your request for renewed permission to visit the Holy Land: since you are now engaged in establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, this service is of great importance and perhaps your absence would cause a slackening, therefore persistence is necessary.  AB06482

And regarding what you wrote at the end of the letter about visitation, this servant presented himself before the Throne with your intention and circumambulated and visited on your behalf, and it was a very pleasant occasion, praise be to God in all conditions.   BH00843

He Who was wronged mentions you from the prison precincts, O Afnan 'Ali who has attained unto God, and remembers the days of your presence before His face and your standing before the door and your hearkening to My sweetest call in the morning and evening hours.   BH11196

The honored Khan has permission to circumambulate the Point of Adoration of the Supreme Concourse, and when the means are available, that journey can be undertaken with joy and fragrance in a way that makes covering the distance easy, for "whoso is able to do so."  AB02472

Regarding Mrs. Nash, you wrote that she has asked permission to consult with the Handmaid of Baha, Miss Barney. If she deems it appropriate, write to her to come, but on the condition that she not stay in Akka more than three nights, for the time is not favorable.  AB10512

He must seek permission from his native land. Permission has not been and is not granted for Alexandretta, Beirut, Jaffa, Haifa and places near and far, except for their inhabitants. However, We have pardoned him and We beseech God to assist him to visit His House   BH09708

The faithful friend 'Azizu'llah Khan came and went to the Holy Shrine, becoming an intimate confidant of these longing ones, and found spiritual delight in kissing the Sacred Threshold, inhaling the fragrance of the All-Merciful from the right hand of the Beloved.   AB03402

And at the end of the letter his honor Abdul-Baha, upon him be Baha, requested that after receiving permission you visit and circumambulate on his behalf. Permission hath appeared - turn thy face to Him Who mentioned thee and remembereth thee, then do as he desired.  BH04336

At this moment the Sun of permission has risen and shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of will. Give glad tidings to the Leaf and those with her on My behalf of My permission, which is the ultimate hope of the seekers and the goal of the hearts of the mystics.   BH00942

"As to what thou hast written concerning thy coming (to Acca): For the present this is not consistent with wisdom. When the opportunity cometh, at an appointed time, we will summon thee to come; and this is a glad-tidings unto thee and the greatest joy and happiness."  AB03830

You and a group had asked permission to attain the presence. In these days, coming into the presence in the Holy Land involves great difficulty and has many complications. You may possibly remain six months on the way. Postpone the time of presence to another occasion.  AB00732

Since this servant observed their presence to be absolutely necessary, therefore he has completely set aside considerations of wisdom and agrees in this matter that they may turn their faces toward the blessed shrine for the purpose of pilgrimage to the Sacred Threshold.  AB07674

You had requested permission to visit the Sacred Spot. At present the journey is very difficult and the friends who have come have endured much hardship. Whenever the path becomes smooth and travel can be undertaken with ease and comfort, you will have permission to come.   AB03628

Thou hadst written requesting permission to be present. Thou art permitted to come, for it has been long since thou hast attained the honor of kissing the Sacred Threshold, and we too have not seen that luminous countenance nor been in the company of that spiritual friend.  AB01692

And they desired that on behalf of the aforementioned souls they might repeatedly attain the presence and be honored with visitation...This has been adorned with the ornament of acceptance and it was commanded that they should engage in feasting and Jinab-i-Amin in service.  BH02040

a group of American pilgrims are waiting to meet, and truly meeting them brings spirit and fragrance, for they are people of arts and sciences, among the notables and eminent ones of that land, and are in the utmost state of being enkindled with the fire of the love of God   AB12163

Thou hast asked for permission to come to our presence with his honor . . . . . . . . I am also longing greatly after the meeting of the friends. If there was no obstacle, it would be very acceptable, but in these days, thy presence (in this land) is not according to wisdom.  AB04455

Regarding your presence in the Holy Land, it is better now that you remain occupied with teaching in those regions. I will specifically summon you, and on your behalf I will perfume my face and hair with the dust of the Holy Threshold, and by proxy will make the pilgrimage.   AB03391

The honored Afnan, Mirza Buzurg, and the honored Afnan, Aqa Mirza Habib, were granted permission to enter and, having arrived, perfumed their nostrils with the holy fragrances of the gathering place of the Supreme Concourse. They remained here for some time and then departed.  AB00233

Praise God that you have crossed the seas and arrived at the shore of the ocean of your Lord's bounty. You circumambulated the Holy Shrine and prostrated yourself at the Threshold of the One. This is from the grace of the Lord of creation that you were enabled to achieve this.  AB09386

Although in these days there are many obstacles and all are forbidden from presence in these regions, yet in view of the firm and mighty command in the Perspicuous Book "Give the kindred their due", you are permitted to be present, but on condition of a limited number of days   AB05846

When thou wert leaving to return to America and this made you sad and unhappy and you wept, I promised I would summon you again to My Presence. Now I fulfil that promise. If there is no hindrance and you can travel in perfect joy and fragrance, you have permission to be present.  AB10099

And concerning what you wrote about Haji Ahmad, upon him be Baha, and Haji Ali-'Askar, that whenever the means are available they would proceed with wisdom in the way of trade - permission for this matter is not granted at present. Travel to this land is not permitted at present.  BH09071

Thou hadst requested permission by telegraph to attain Our presence. However, as in these days certain souls have arisen in utmost opposition, shouldst thou come, it would only bring thee the greatest sorrow, and thy present grief and suffering would be multiplied a thousandfold.  AB02369

Verily, I have read the expressions of thy longing for the visit and thy craving to come to this Brilliant Spot...there are numerous obstacles and it is impossible for thee to come in these times. But verily, I pray my Lord to make this success feasible unto thee in a future time.  AB04920

If the means of pilgrimage become available for Master Muhammad-Javad, Aqa Mirza Nasru'llah and Mulla Ghulam-Husayn to come with the utmost joy and spirit and return, and the duration of stay in the Holy Land is nine days, they have permission to return at the end of this period.   AB00631

And as for what you desired regarding your presence before the Face, We love this and permit you in truth. No harm shall befall you, and what you desire shall not become known among the people. Thus has the matter been decreed from the Pen of Destiny by One who is Mighty and Wise.   BH01360

"you donned the pilgrim garment of the Ka'bah of the intended goal and, with utmost sincerity and attention to the Beauty of the Beloved, you traversed the stages and stations until you reached the gatherings of remembrance and attained the honor of presence at the holy sanctuaries"   AB11852

Regarding the request for permission to attain the presence for Jinab-i-Aqa Muhammad Hasan, Jinab-i-Aqa Asadu'llah, Jinab-i-Aqa Muhammad and Jinab-i-Aqa 'Abdu'l-Husayn, son of Aqa Asadu'llah - they are permitted to come, for they have endured severe tribulations in the path of Truth.   AB01415

And among Thy handmaidens is this one who hath migrated in Thy path and desired to visit the Most Great House and circumambulate the sacred precincts. The winds of Thy decree seized her and prevented her from entering into the sea of nearness unto Thee and from dwelling in Thy presence.   BH03667

Be confident that I will undertake to arrange your attainment of the presence at the Sacred Threshold. I hope that, through the assistance of the All-Powerful Lord, you may attain to kissing the Sacred Threshold in complete attraction and ecstasy, joy and gladness, sincerity and sanctity.  AB05432

Furthermore, it was written that some souls who have newly attained to the stream of recognition desire to turn towards the Most Great Scene. This was submitted to the Most Holy Court. He said: "Most certainly prevent them, for without permission it has not been and will not be permitted."  BH00892

Thou shalt attain to visit Acca; but now a physical visit (or presence) will lead to interference on the part of the ignorant and cause the tumult and commotion of the unwise. For the present, satisfy thyself with a spiritual union. God willing, thy coming will be also brought about afterward.  AB05272

"Our intention was that he should spend some time there guiding souls and then turn towards the Desired Land. But it appears that the flame of longing has reached an unbearable degree. In this case, they are permitted to make the Most Great Pilgrimage with your honor under the pretext of Hajj."   AB01101

Thou didst don the pilgrim's garb for the Ka'bah of thy heart's desire... A barrier arose and events prevented thee, and thou wert commanded to return. Be not disappointed, be not sorrowful, be joyous, for abundant reward is assured and the bounty bestowed upon pilgrims is ordained and destined.   AB07437

You had sought permission to attain the presence - now spend some time serving in those regions and be a guest of the mindful ones, a companion of those who sit together, and an associate of those who are attracted, until in the future, God willing, permission will be granted according to wisdom.   AB02394

In truth, since a promise was previously made, therefore if you find yourself unable to find rest and peace there and cannot settle in any way, you have permission to come into Our presence, but on condition of a swift return. This is based on wisdom and expediency and goodwill towards your own self.  AB08592

Furthermore, his honor Nabil of Qa'in, upon him be the glory of God, has reached Mosul and has paused there, seeking permission to attain the presence. Permission has been granted from the Source of Command for him to proceed to the Most Holy Court or to the Land of Ha, as deemed appropriate by your honor  BH00757

Concerning what you wrote about Master Husayn Saffar, if he should proceed to the Land of Ta with joy and fragrance, with wisdom, for the purpose of meeting his relatives, there is no objection - indeed it is praiseworthy. God willing, may he be assisted in all matters and act in ways that exalt the Cause.  BH00807

My Name, upon whom be My glory and loving-kindness, hath appeared before Me and asked God, his Lord and thy Lord, to seek permission for thee to attain unto this blessed and praiseworthy station. Therefore hath the luminary of permission shone forth from the horizon of the will of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH07035

Although in these days wisdom does not permit attendance, yet since you have interceded on behalf of another and requested permission for his attendance, not for yourself, this righteous deed has compelled Me to grant permission. Therefore, Jinab-i-Ustad Hasan-i-Yazdi is permitted to proceed to the Holy Shrine.  AB08561

if it can be arranged with the utmost joy and fragrance, with means prepared and a companion found, you are permitted to come to the Holy Land and from here travel to Iran, and from Iran to India. However, it must be with complete attention, reliance and detachment, for travel certainly involves many hardships.   AB01475

And regarding his request for permission to turn toward the Most Holy Court and return after a nine-day stay, it was presented, and the sun of permission rose from the dayspring of grace. He should act as the honored Physician hath written, that is, return to his residence with joy and fragrance after nine days.   BH00761

As for what you desired regarding the presence, the servant has presented it. Thus did the tongue of the Beloved speak: "O My servant! Thou knowest My loving-kindness, My love and My tenderness for him, but wisdom hath prevented Me from granting this request in these days, and We have postponed it to another day."   BH01108

In any case, you have permission to attain the presence, but along the way you must speak of servitude to this servant and perfume the nostrils of all handmaidens with this fragrant breeze, so that the glance of favor may be complete toward you and you may witness the confirmations of the Kingdom from all directions.  AB02118

Know thou with certainty that the longing of 'Abdu'l-Baha exceeds thine own. I ever beseech at the threshold of the Ancient Lord with mighty supplication that He may ordain, in the near future, the contemplation of that beauteous countenance, and that wisdom may accord with permission for attainment unto His presence.  AB08969

Now you are My deputy in taking this pilgrimage. I am a prisoner and not permitted to leave. My utmost wish is for the freedom to go and visit these places, but I cannot do so. Therefore, on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha, you must go. With the utmost reverence and humility, visit these holy places, and pray for confirmation.   ABU2211

The conditions for 'Abdu'l-Baha's coming to those regions have been written through you to the friends and divine handmaidens. I hope that these conditions will be fulfilled, so that perhaps someday a journey may be made to those regions. However, if these conditions are not met, it will prevent travel to those regions.  AB09457

Thy letter was received and read. Thou hast invited me to America, saying: In that region and that country there are many fragrant and multi-colored flowers; likewise there are thorns and thistles; but Abdul-Baha should not look upon the thistles of the desert. He must hasten to that country for the sake of the flowers.  AB06535

"And regarding what you wrote about turning towards this land with permission, He said you have already attained this blessing three times and it was accepted before God. Further journeys to this land are not permitted, for it is in turmoil, and the hidden turmoil which has been revealed in most tablets remains concealed."  BH00632

We have accepted thy deed in the path of God...Although those souls who turned toward the Most Holy Court without permission attained the presence, yet the Supreme Pen hath paused in their mention. We have pardoned them as a bounty from Us...And hereafter whosoever shall turn without permission, verily he is of the heedless.   BH08452

Mirza 'Abdu'l-'Ali traversed vast distances, crossed deserts, and cut through seas and difficult terrain until he reached the destination of his hopes and arrived at the resting place of the Concourse on High. He circumambulated the sanctuary of the holy ones and perfumed his face and hair with the dust of the Sacred Threshold.   AB03502

As for visiting the Blessed Threshold, your presence is now needed in those parts. You must think about spreading the divine fragrances. Today this is the greatest of all matters and the most perfect of deeds. God willing, permission will be granted at its proper time. Therefore be patient, for God is with those who are patient.  AB08111

As commanded, on Tuesday the 19th of the blessed month of Ramadan, his honor Aqa Muhammad, upon him be the glory of God, should seat the travelers in a carriage - including he who was named before the Countenance as Haji Ahmad and those with him, and the two who are in the guest house, these being four in total - and bring them.   BH02253

For this reason We have not given and do not give permission save to a few souls, and this too for the sake of wisdom. God willing, thou shalt be assisted and with these hosts thou shalt conquer the cities of hearts. Whenever wisdom requireth, We shall summon thee; otherwise, We beseech God to bestow upon thee the reward of pilgrimage.   BH01431

The humble one submits that if it is possible for you to turn with joy and fragrance to the Most Holy Court during Ridvan, this would be most beloved, provided it causes no disruption to the shop's affairs and operations, nor any disturbance to the minds of the owners of goods. In any case, whenever leisure permits, do turn [to the Court].   BH01320

For this reason we have instructed all souls who have sought permission to come to remain where they are, except for Samandar, the divine kindled fire - and this permission was given according to an all-encompassing wisdom involving mighty causes. In any case, God willing, when the Holy Land becomes calm this bounty will become possible for you.   AB02888

Buyuk Aqa Ahmadzadih has permission to circumambulate the gathering place of the Supreme Concourse...Regarding permission for general visitation that you had written about - each soul should, as before, come with permission and, having donned the pilgrim's garb of the Ka'bah of the intended goal, attain the blessing of visiting the Holy Threshold.   AB02924

Therefore, don the pilgrim's garment and set out to circumambulate the circuit of the Concourse on High. When you reach the desired land, you will witness the wisdom behind your lack of success in the previous year and will be amazed at what grace and bounty this was, and what favor and blessing it was that the pilgrimage was delayed until such days.   AB04775

You had sought permission to attain the presence at the Sacred Threshold, the point of circumambulation of the Concourse on High. In these days, as there is much mischief from the people of lassitude, therefore it is not in accordance with wisdom. We pray that the reward of pilgrimage be bestowed upon you and we shall summon you at an appropriate time.  AB06578

As regards Muhammad Mustafa, upon him be the glory of God - in these days word has come that his presence would not accord with wisdom. This is one reason, and another reason is that if We were to summon him We would need to summon all the companions of that land, and in these days this would not accord with wisdom. God willing, We shall summon him later.  BH03518

Although in thy journey thou didst intend to attain the presence of the Holy Land, if obstacles prevented thee, it mattereth not. Since thy intention was sincere, it hath been accepted, and in the Concourse on High thou art mentioned as a pilgrim and known by this distinguished attribute. The essential thing is acceptance, and the attainment of the purpose.  AB06100

With regard to the six firm, assured and steadfast souls - Mr. Ali Akbar, Karbala'i Aqa Kish, Aqa Rida-Quli, Aqa Asghar, Aqa Mirza Abdul-Karim and Karbala'i Qasim, may the glory of God rest upon them - you mentioned that they have intended to undertake pilgrimage. This matter was presented in the Most Holy and Most Exalted Presence and was met with approval.  BH11694

O thou pilgrim, Aqa Mirza Mahmud, son of Aqa Husayn-'Ali, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious! O thou who art firm in the Covenant! Praise God that thou hast reached the Land of Purpose, hast prostrated thyself at the Holy Threshold, and hast inhaled its musk-like fragrance. Know thou the value of this bounty and render thanks for this grace and favor.  AB11158

A number of you have sought permission to don the pilgrim's garb for the Ka'bah of the Divine Purpose and attain the honor of presence at the Sacred Threshold. At present travel is very difficult. Be patient. Whenever travel becomes easily possible, you will be granted permission. However, it must be in such a way that utmost joy and delight are achieved in this journey.   AB04323

The command of God is that if someone has not attained the presence and has crossed the sea, there is no objection should they turn towards the Most Holy Court. This is from My favor - I have consented to My own harm for the joy of My loved ones. And after arrival in the Holy Land and a stay of two or three days, they must return to their place. This is the command of God.   BH07031

Regarding presence at the Threshold of the Forgiving Lord, you are permitted but with the same known conditions and promised covenant. When a dear soul dons the pilgrim's garb for the Ka'bah of the Divine Purpose and determines to visit the Beloved's dwelling, surely a gift is fitting and an offering necessary so that the arrival and visitation may be blessed and fortunate.   AB00464

You had sought permission to attain the presence of the Holy Shrine. This is indeed the greatest aspiration of those who are nigh unto God - to circumambulate the sacred burial place. However, in these days, due to the corruption of the people of hatred and the actions of the envious and cruel ones, the Holy Land is in turmoil and the presence of the loved ones is difficult.  AB12002

The Tongue of Grandeur and tender Mercy maketh mention of thee from the realm on high and beareth witness to thy banishment and thy journey in the path of God, to thy presence and thy visitation in the days when the Most Great Prison was the seat of His Throne. In the estimation of God this testimony is greater than all things. Recognize its station and appreciate its value.   BH07556

As for your seeking permission to visit the tomb of Husayn, God granted you permission a thousand thousand years before your existence. Attain to this greatest bounty, for a single soul upon that earth is greater in my sight than the dominion of the first and the last, for there lies the nearness to the court of the Divine Presence and the manifestation of the Tree of Sinai.   BB00226

Regarding what was mentioned about Jinab-i-Aqa Muhammad Husayn, brother of the departed and elevated one - upon them both be the glory of God, His care and His grace - who intended to visit the Most Exalted Shrine and Supreme Summit, after this matter was presented before His presence, He said: If the journey does not depart from wisdom and does not cause commotion, there is no objection.  BH04862

They suddenly arrived in Port Said, but with the permission of the Greatest Holy Leaf. In truth, Mirza Ja'far showed the utmost consideration up until Port Said, but his wife changed his intention. They said they would not go directly to 'Ishqabad but would go to other places. Therefore, we sent the handmaiden of God Hakimih Khatun along with two women from Azerbaijan and Ahmadov to 'Ishqabad   AB04545

Do thou consider what is best for thee. Whatever leads to an improvement in thy health, the same should be carried out. If the weather proves disagreeable, thou mayest go to Beirut and stay in the home of Jinab-i-Muhammad Mustafa, upon him be Baha'u'llahu'l-Abha. Also, shouldst thou desire to go to Jibal from there, that, too, is permissible. Or shouldst thou wish, we could obtain a place specially for thee in Haifa.  AB05442

Know thou with certainty that the longing of 'Abdu'l-Baha is greater than thine. I continually beseech from the threshold of the Ancient and Ever-Living Lord with fervent supplication that He may ordain, in a time near at hand, the beholding of that radiant countenance, and that wisdom may accord with permission for attaining the presence. But for now, show some patience, for we have forbidden all from attaining Our presence  AB08969

This matter was illumined with the light of permission even before being mentioned. When thou seest him, stand before him and proclaim "Allah-u-Akbar" on My behalf and say: Blessed art thou, O thou who art exiled in the lands for the sake of God, the Lord of creation! Whenever thou desirest, act as deputy and representative. Thus hath the decree of permission been sent down from the heaven of God's command, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH00961

Write to My Afnan [who had promised to escort the Bab's wife] that we agreed and consented to the exalted leaf's request. Currently, the honored persons continue to stand ready and prepared to fulfil that promise, though they have not spoken of it. He further stated, Write of this matter to the Afnan, upon him be the glory of God, as he was well aware of such a promise beforehand. We desired to fulfil what We had assured the exalted leaf.  BH11877

As for the request for permission to attain His presence, after it was presented before Him, permission shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of grace. This is a bounty that cannot be equaled by treasures and riches. The Command is in God's hands, the Possessor of the seen and unseen. However, this matter depends upon the requirements of wisdom. Today that spiritual friend must observe wisdom, lest the clamor of the ignorant be raised.  BH10385

According to the promise thou didst make to thy respected wife, thou art hoping to visit the threshold of the All-Forgiving Lord. However, complete thy work in such a way that there will be no need for supervision. Then, according to thy promise, put on the pilgrim's garb of the peerless sanctuary and set out for the threshold of the Desired One with the utmost joy, gladness, attraction, exultation, and abundant humility and submissiveness.   AB04085

Your letter arrived and the wish and plea of the loved ones and handmaids of the All-Merciful became known. Through you, that which constitutes the conditions for 'Abdu'l-Baha's coming to those regions has been written to the loved ones and divine handmaids. I hope that these conditions will be fulfilled, that perchance a journey to those regions may take place at some time. However, if these conditions are not met, it will prevent travel to those regions.  AB09457

Regarding moving from San Francisco to New York, it is very suitable. Spend some time there in the utmost joy and fragrance with the friends, occupy yourself with the remembrance of God, and attend to organizing your affairs so that after the war, if it becomes possible to travel in complete comfort and no disruption occurs in Mr. Ralston's affairs, but rather everything remains in perfect order after departure, you have permission to come. Otherwise, no.   AB01670

Regarding those travelers who have turned towards the Most Holy Court without permission, the decree remains as previously revealed in various Tablets from the Supreme Pen. Blessed are they who hearken unto what they hear! What can this evanescent servant say regarding the events occurring in this land? Each day, two or three travelers arrive from various regions without permission, and in the surrounding villages of this land are residing a number of souls  BH01755

Regarding his turning towards this direction, they stated that although this land appears outwardly tranquil, it is inwardly turbulent. The people of this region have been and continue to be utterly perfidious. In the holy Books of the past, the inhabitants of these lands were likened unto the offspring of vipers. This hath been and remaineth the reason for withholding permission; otherwise, this Wronged One hath ever loved not to deprive His loved ones of His presence.   BH01724

For some time, his honor Mirza Muharram, who is named Manzar, upon him be the most luminous glory of God, was circling in this Most Great Prison around the garden of the Ancient Beauty, and the gardens of his heart and soul were verdant and flourishing through the spring rains of grace and the brilliant rays from the Sun of Truth. Now, God willing, with permission granted, he must pass like the life-giving fragrances of the love of the Lord God to other lands and regions  AB04944

Regarding what you wrote about his honor Mirza Yusif Khan - last year you had requested permission for him to attain the presence. Since you had offered the utmost praise and commendation of him and had requested permission for him to visit the Holy Shrine, therefore, in consideration of his connection to the brilliant star of the glorious horizon, his honor Vahid-i-Farid (may my spirit be a sacrifice for the near ones), despite the general prohibition, permission for his presence was granted and a letter was written to you at that time regarding this matter.   AB01680

Diverse multitudes and countless throngs each year separate themselves from friend and acquaintance, kith and kin, wife and child, abandoning their familiar homeland, traversing deserts and crossing vast distances until they reach the earthly Ka'bih - an edifice metaphorically attributed to God which, through a word from the Dayspring of Revelation, has become the point of circumambulation for souls. With utmost eagerness, humility and submissiveness they circle round it, seeking acceptance at the threshold of the Almighty and hoping to attract the gaze of the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful.   AB00333

And the other daughter, the leaf of faithfulness who is in Mashhad, has permission to attain the presence. As to the handmaiden of God, Ziya'ul-Hajiyyih, who is gladdened by the glad-tidings of God: she, along with other handmaidens, has permission to attain the presence next year and come to the blessed and luminous Shrine in the spring. Likewise, Jinab-i-Mirza Salim Khan, Jinab-i-Muhammad Mahdi Mirza, Jinab-i-Haji Majid Arab, and Jinab-i-Masihi - convey to them with utmost longing the Most Wondrous and Most Glorious greetings from Abdul-Baha. They too have permission to attain the presence next year.   AB00313

Jinab-i-Mashhadi Isma'il, upon him be the Glory of God, arrived. Praise be to God, he was enkindled with the fire of love and spoke in remembrance of the Peerless Friend. The grace of God, exalted be His glory, took hold of him, for his pilgrimage and turning was accepted, even though he set out on the path without permission. However, henceforth you must observe the command, meaning prevent souls from disobedience. None should come without permission. The prohibition has been clearly revealed in the divine Tablets. If anyone comes without permission, their harm will be many times greater than their reward.   BH00887

Regarding what you wrote about Haji Muhammad-Baqir and Aqa Siyyid Muhammad-'Ali, upon them be the Glory of God - that they arrived in Beirut and afterwards, without permission from the Dayspring of Grace, proceeded to the prison land - He said: Although it occurred without permission, yet He is verily the Kind, the Compassionate. We beseech God to adorn all with the ornament of permission and then to honor them with His presence, for the fruits of this are countless and will continue to be. And likewise He said: O servant of God! Those souls who are turned toward and gazing upon the Truth and moved by His will must obtain permission from their location. This is true permission.   BH01843

As to permission for the aforementioned one and two others, there hath never been any doubt that this Revelation hath loved and continues to love the presence of the friends, and seeketh for them the bounty of nearness and meeting, and the feast of revelation and witnessing. However, in this land, following the clamor raised by the previous governor, some discussion hath arisen, as hath been revealed in the Tablets from the Supreme Pen. We have therefore withheld permission for the friends, except for those souls who had previously been blessed with the effulgences of the lights of the Luminary of permission. Now, should wisdom require it, they may proceed; otherwise, God shall record for them the reward of attaining His presence in His decisive and perspicuous Book.   BH01270

You wrote that two Arab believers have turned toward that land due to the tribulation that occurred. That which you had written concerning certain ones who intended to journey to the Most Holy Land was submitted in detail, but they did not grant permission, for in this year, due to the multitude of arrivals, the former Pasha who was in this land submitted countless complaints arising from his personal desires to the authorities of the government in Istanbul and elsewhere. Concerning him who ascended unto God, namely my brother Ustad Ali-Akbar, upon him be Baha'u'llah, about which you had written - this was submitted and He said: He must not grieve for his brother. God hath forgiven him as a bounty from His presence. Verily He is the All-Forgiving, the All-Generous. He hath delivered him from the hardships of the world and made him to be among the doers of good.  BH04769

And concerning your request for permission to attain His presence, excellent is that which you have asked, for all have been created for this most mighty, most great, most exalted, most excellent Cause. This servant, in accordance with your wish, on one of the nights of the blessed month of Ramadan, made mention of it before the Throne of the All-Merciful, and this answer was revealed from the Dayspring of God's Command: "O servant present! Write to him who hath turned towards God - upon him be My Glory - that these regions are in turmoil. The fire which the deniers have kindled with their own hands and inflamed by their own deeds hath not yet been extinguished. The world is afflicted with the consequences of its actions, and none hath known or knoweth the cause and reason thereof. Under such circumstances, his movement and journey would not accord with the requirements of wisdom."   BH00492

Both in the language of verses and in Persian the wisdom, meaning and details thereof have been revealed. Nevertheless, in most lands that which has occurred has occurred. For example, some time ago a person intended to go to the regions of Iran. This servant was himself present in the Most Holy Court when the Ancient Tongue verbally counseled him that he must conduct himself with the utmost wisdom and not speak except what God has decreed in the Tablets. Nevertheless, in these days several petitions have reached the Most Holy Court mentioning details about him that are the cause and reason for corruption, conflict and contention in the world. Consider, for instance, that despite the explicit prohibition revealed in numerous Tablets, every day a group arrives and a group departs, and some of these souls upon returning to every city and land speak contrary to what God has commanded them.   BH00368

Permission is granted for the presence of Master Muhammad-Rida, Ali-Akbar son of Master Javad, and Ali-Akbar Iskaui.  AB12820
 
O seeker of pilgrimage to the sanctuary of the Supreme Concourse! O thou who thirsteth for the living waters of the sea of bounty, hasten to the shore of the Most Great Ocean! O thou who longest to inhale the holy fragrances, turn thyself toward the blessed sanctuary!  AB12829
 
