
Thirty years ago I wrote to Sultan Abdul Hamid that if thou desirest to protect thy Empire thou must give complete freedom of rights to all thy subjects no matter to what religion they may belong and establish a constitution but he did not listen and you see today the results.  ABU2929


In the name of God and humanity we protest to you against the plight which we have been subjected to from the Turkish government.  BH08012

The plea of these servants is that they be shown a merciful glance, so that all may dwell secure and at rest under the protective shadow of the sovereign.  BH01120

Mirza Abu'l-Qasim, who was a Sufi, wrote to the king, bringing to his attention the fact that the people were innocent and did not deserve to be killed.  ABU1610

I beseech the favors of His Imperial Majesty and Your Highness that you would honor this supplicant with your royal favors and benevolence, your grace and mercy.   BB00460


Afterwards I sent a telegram to His Excellency the Naqib, who is the Prime Minister in Baghdad. His Excellency the Naqib rose up with determination and recovered the House from the usurpers and handed it over to the caretakers.  AB11908

His Majesty the Sovereign Sultan Abdul-Hamid Khan, may his victory be mighty, is truly just and prayers for his welfare are necessary and obligatory for all. We beseech God to make manifest to him the sincerity of this community  AB02969

Sending a petition directly and individually to the center of government is contrary to wisdom. However, whenever oppression, tyranny and cruelty occur, it is permissible to collectively present the situation and make complaints.   AB05263

And repeatedly during this journey, petitions of submission and supplication from the concealed ones and Nasiri'd-Din Shah would reach the Most Pure sight, mentioning the transgressions of the early days of the aforementioned Shah  ABU2068

Thereafter, the petition which thou didst dispatch to the Most Holy Court arrived on the blessed night of Rabi'u'l-Avval. It was read, and after being reviewed, was brought to the Holy Presence and attained the honor of being heard.   BH01431

Appeal to no authority except the government of His Imperial Majesty, and voice your complaints only in the imperial presence. Seek justice from His Imperial Majesty the King and take your grievances to the respected Prime Minister.   AB00222

I beseech Thee, O Creator of heaven and Lord of all names, to aid Thy servants who have turned unto Thee and have set their faces toward the court of Thy grace. Withhold them not from the stream of Thy Cause and the spring of Thy love.  BH08347

O my Lord! Thou seest the poor one standing before the gate of Thy riches, and the supplicant awaiting the wonders of Thy generosity and bounty. I beseech Thee to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones and chosen ones.  BH05629

Most mighty and noble ambassador, most great minister, may your prosperity continue, I wish to say that your letter has arrived and that it was productive of the greatest joy and happiness. We are more grateful to you than can be estimated.  BH06618

I beseech Thee, O my God, by the essence of all things, that Thou protect those who are in the Bayan and guide them upon the path before Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest in truth, through Thy grace, Thy generosity, Thy bounty and Thy favor.  BB00070

through the assistance and favor of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, firm recommendations were made to important authorities and firm responses were received, so that oppression and transgression may not be repeated   AB07311

If they harass you again, write the details to Ibrahim Bey, the interpreter at the embassy, and petition His Excellency the Ambassador. If you receive no redress, write directly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and submit a petition to His Imperial Majesty  AB00825

As for the livelihood of those there, you yourself, either directly or through the government, may write to the Pasha however you deem advisable, explaining that Abdul-Karim has gone for pilgrimage and these ones are left stranded here - what should be done?  AB04345

Do thou have recourse to the government so that preventive measures may be taken; yet not in any adversarial fashion: rather, in a moderate manner state thou that such is contrary to justice and fellowship and love among all the subjects of the respected state.  AB01317

Therefore, O my God, send down every good thing encompassed by Thy knowledge upon Thy Friend who standeth by Thy Cause, who awaiteth Thy promise, who watcheth for Thy decree, who is victorious through Thy hosts, and who possesseth all things through Thy sovereignty   BB00261

I beseech Thee by the Name through which Thou didst cause the seas to surge and the winds to blow, to open before the faces of Thy servants the gate of Thy knowledge, and then to give them to drink, O my God, from the Kawthar of reunion through the hands of Thy bounty.   BH09861

O Lord! Thou beholdest the believers among the idolaters, and there hath befallen them that which hath caused the dwellers of Thy Paradise and celestial garden to lament. I beseech Thee to preserve them from the evil of the aggressors and the oppression of the oppressors.   BH01197

Let there be two copies of this petition and the more the believers sign each of these two copies, the better it is. Each person must sign personally. Then (when they are finished) you must forward them here. We will write them the address and forward to that destination.   AB02316

Regarding the assassin of His Majesty the late Shah, His Excellency the Grand Vizier informed all the consuls that after careful investigation and thorough inquiry it was determined that the condemned killer was a republican and materialist who had no connection to others.  AB01155

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds and Sovereign of nations, by Thy Most Great Name, to assist me in that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and will exalt my mention amongst Thy servants. Then ordain for me through the Pen of Destiny the good of both this world and the next.   BH07778

I immediately wrote a recommendation to the Sacred Person concerning Aqa Mirza Fat?-'Ali Khan. In truth, that wronged one hath been made captive. Though he is imprisoned, yet is he near to the court of the Incomparable Lord. I hope that relief will soon be granted and mercy shown.  AB08671

O Lord! Proffer me these cups, deliver me from the desolation of souls, and raise me to Thy luminous threshold in the world of light and glory, that I may attain unto reunion, be saved from remoteness, and that my heart may overflow with love and faithfulness in the scene of sacrifice.  AB00215

Most esteemed one! His Honor, the respected Khalil Bey has now arrived. We await your august presence, together with Mahmud Bey Effendi and His Honor the Judge, to ascend to the hotel above. It would be most excellent if you could grace us with your presence at your earliest convenience.  AB12090

Make mention, on behalf of this Wronged One, of the followers of Zoroaster, upon them be God's loving-kindness. God willing, may they drink from the chalices of utterance of the Goal of all worlds that were previously sent, that which shall free and detach their hearts from all else save God.  BH01240

The Wronged One makes mention of thee for the sake of God and reminds thee of His verses which hold sway over all who are in the heavens and on earth. The light hath dawned from the horizon of the heaven of utterance, whereby the earth hath been illumined, yet the people remain behind an obvious veil.  BH00107

O God! I beseech Thee by Thy Divinity which shineth forth above all things, to have mercy upon and honor every being whose name beginneth with Alif and who is related to the Tree of Affirmation, by Thy Self-Subsistence which sustaineth all things. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.   BB00142

I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy Kingdom and Thy Dominion, and by that which hath been inscribed in Thy Scrolls and Thy Tablets, to make us among those who have held fast to the cord of Thy love and have clung to the hem of Thy mercy, which hath preceded all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth.   BH00182

O Muhammad-Baqir, upon whom be the Glory of God! He is the Witness from His most exalted horizon. This is a Book sent down by the Lord of Names while He was in the hands of enemies who broke God's covenant and testament, denied His proof and evidence, and disbelieved when He came with manifest sovereignty.  BH05130

I hastened to you and came as a delegate before you and appeared in your presence so that you might be the sole intermediary and proper means before a certain person for a poor, sorrowful man - that he might include him within the glances of his eye of care and take him under his protection and guardianship.   AB02413

You asked that if someone makes a vow to 'Abdu'l-Baha, should the proceeds and income from it be sent or distributed to the poor? In any case its expenditure must be with permission and authorization. Similarly, the expenditure of endowment proceeds must now be with 'Abdu'l-Baha's permission and authorization.  AB01192

Aqa 'Abdu'l-Ghaffar has repeatedly made the utmost complaints about his father Haji Muhammad Ibrahim, and has raised lamentation and outcry. He has exhibited such agitation and distress that it defies description. In these days he has again written a letter of complaint through you and raised lamentation and cry.  AB08807

But Abdu'l-Baha is immersed in an ocean - letters pour like spring rain from East and West, all seeking replies. The mere reading of these letters would require miraculous power, let alone responding to them. Moreover, endless tasks and troubles keep me occupied day and night - I find no rest even upon my pillow.  AB09611

Beseech ye the one true God that He may unveil before His Majesty the Sultan and His Highness the Grand Vizier that which will enable them to become aware of this Wronged One's purpose and aspirations. By God! They would then find themselves established upon a ship which no winds could move and no waves could harm.  BH01284

I have risen to mention something of my distress, that by God's will and power it may become the cause of removing oppression... What is expected from your honor's kindness is that you will, with a glance of favor, arrange for the matter to be resolved in such a way that it is lifted from the source of the decree.   BB00558

Write this firm and mighty decree, which hath in this moment issued forth from the treasury of the Most Exalted Pen, to the Trustee: O Trustee! Upon thee be My glory! Ponder this matter and give it thy attention. Employ all outward and inward means that perchance this handmaiden of God may be freed and return to her homeland.  BH11488

Thou seest how the Dayspring of Utterance hath been prevented from the wondrous expressions of Thy remembrance by reason of what the hands of the tyrannical ones among Thy servants have wrought, and how they have forbidden Thy loved ones, who have sought Thy face from diverse regions and countries, from attaining His presence.  BH04747

Regarding the response that was requested to the petition of Manakji Sahib - its sending was delayed, for today whatever occurs in any matter has been and will be the standard. Therefore, its sending is not permitted, even if the petitioner himself consents it is not permitted, unless he himself openly and explicitly requests it.  BH11833

Rest assured that you shall not be forgotten for the twinkling of an eye. Therefore strive with heart and soul to become a trusted messenger and clear herald of the breaths of the All-Merciful. No obstacle shall prevent this communication. The hand of oppressors' aggression falls short, and the efforts of the tyrannical come to naught.  AB02466

I gave a Tablet to Jamal Effendi and instructed that traveling through certain cities and following an unfrequented route he should reach Qum and to deliver the Tablet to the Sadr A'zam [Prime Minister]. He was to win an audience with the vizier, and exhibiting utmost courtesy, respect and submission present him, in private, the Tablet.   ABU2321

The government does not approve such gatherings, even though His Majesty Sultan Abdul-Hamid Khan, may the All-Merciful strengthen him, deals with all the people of these realms with joy and fragrance and compassion and care. Justice and fairness are honored and revered before him, and until now he has shown kindness toward this community.  BH11837

Regarding Jinab-i-Amin and his journey to the land of Ta, and from there with a group, upon whom be the Glory of God, to England or Tiflis to seek justice, these matters were submitted. This is what the All-Bestowing revealed in response: "Verily, he will not fulfill your needs. They are unable to fulfill their own needs, how much less your needs."   BH02765

Nothing in the heavens or on earth is too great for Thee, and with Thee is the knowledge of all things in a clear Book. O God! Thou knowest my secret and my public acts, and numerous books have come down to me from the people of Thy obedience, after I had delegated save to him who was exalted in some days and to him who was most worthy of the Book.   BB00138

"Your Highness. This man who is from the province of _ has dropped dead here. He was a stranger amongst us and I am trying to collect money from these noble citizens for the expenses of his burial." The Minister puts five francs in the palm of the man and passes by. Tomorrow a law was issued that the province of _ is exempt from military conscription.   ABU1340

O Lord, aid the throne of the supreme sovereignty with the hosts of the Supreme Concourse, and guard it beneath the shadow of Thy Most Exalted Word with the eye of Thy loving-kindness. Shield it from harmful hands in this earthly life, and assist it with armies from the uttermost horizon. Make the banner of justice wave and the sign of victory manifest therein.  AB10684

A hundred thousand blessings upon those souls who in these days have attained unto the grace of God, for the Word of God shall not be seized by extinction, nor shall change find any way unto it. The Tongue of Grandeur beareth witness unto this, even as it hath testified before. Verily He is the One with power to do as He willeth, in the beginning and in the end.  BH00019

Your excellency's letter has been received. It showed great kindness and was productive of the utmost joy and happiness, gladness and delight. It is obvious that, whatever is done by your excellency, it will not be deficient. The purpose of this letter is to show gratitude to your excellency for having shown the greatest kindness and having delivered the petition.  BH07156

Besides this the followers of the Bab recount certain messages conveyed [from Him] by the instrumentality of Muhammad Big (amongst which was a promise to heal the foot of the late king, but on condition of an interview, and the suppression of the tyranny of the majority), and the Prime Minister's prevention of the conveyance of these letters to the Royal Presence.  AB00003

In truth, he committed oppression and transgression, and whatever you say in complaint and however much you cry out and lament, you are justified. And whatever punishment I give him would be deserved, and however much he repents and turns in contrition, he will not be excused or pardoned. You are in the right and he is in debt, rather deserving unlimited retribution.   AB01790

Convey expressions of gratitude and thanks on behalf of this supplicant to His Excellency the Great Ambassador, may his glory endure, and state that His Excellency has until now shown kindness to many, both great and small, and has endured many hardships. Yet none have rewarded your efforts and favors as they should have - rather, all have forgotten or concealed them.  AB00033

My God, my God! Save me by the arm of Thy power from the pit of self and passion, and deliver me from the fire of tyranny and transgression. I know not, O my God, with what countenance to turn to Thee, after knowing that my trespasses and errors have come between me and Thy good-pleasure and nearness, and have prevented me from appearing before the throne of Thy justice.  BH00085

The petition of these helpless ones before the threshold of the royal court is this...We beseech from the royal favors this request: that Your Majesty would with your illustrious person investigate these recent events, and summon the accused persons before your truth-discerning royal presence, and subject the forged and slanderous documents to thorough investigation and scrutiny.  AB00115

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Manifestation through which the Prophets and Messengers arose and whereby Thou didst raise the standard of There is none other God but Thee upon the most exalted station of existence, to adorn the Shah of Iran with the lights of grace and beneficence. O Lord! Aid him in pure justice that through it the horizons of Thy dominion may be illumined.  BH11577

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Manifest, the Hidden, and by Thy Mystery, the Brilliant, the Treasured, and by the lights of Thy countenance in the supreme horizon, and the appearance of Thy glory in the kingdom of creation, to assist Thy loved ones and chosen ones to serve Thy Cause, that there may appear from them that which shall cause their mention to endure in every world of Thy worlds.  BH00148

Beseech thou God to illumine the world with the light of justice and to assist and confirm His Majesty the Shah. Despite the impertinence of some in the early days, He hath repeatedly in recent years protected the oppressed from the tyranny of the ignorant - once in Ha and Mim, again in Qaf and Mim, and in other places, as when He graciously granted freedom to the prisoners in the Land of Ta.   BH01084

I seek a fragrant breeze for thee and thy companion Mirza Abu'l-Qasim and thy father Aqa Husayn-'Ali and the handmaiden of God thy mother and the faithful brothers and pure-hearted sisters and the soul-stirring friends of Qamsar and the friends of Mazgan. And for the service gathering of Rasht I seek the favors of the Beloved of all horizons, and for Aqa Muhammad Isma'il I wish a spirit like Gabriel.  AB12818

To give a brief account, we resided for six years in Edirne on the orders of the Ottoman government; nothing contrary to the laws (of the state) was ever manifested by me or my followers, as all the people of Edirne bear witness and confess. Nevertheless, three months ago, officials of the Ottoman state suddenly surrounded our house, seized all the belongings of my followers in the bazaar, and took them to the government building. After this, a man came from the governor and informed us that, on the orders of the Sultan, I had to go with (my wives?) and children to Gallipoli. They gave us no further notice than that. All the belongings of my followers were sold for a paltry price at the decree of the military commanders, but they did not even give us an opportunity to collect the money. After this, they brought me to Gallipoli, along with seventy men, women, and small children. Following our arrival, a special official, 'Umar Effendi Binbashi (= bigbashi; major), arrived from Istanbul with five sergeants. They issued a decree to the effect that orders had been given for six individuals to go to Acre (with us?), and for five to go to Cyprus; I had no claim on the rest -- they were to be free to choose for themselves. It afterwards became apparent that he had arranged things, for he took the money for the steamer from everyone and brought all of us to Acre, which has the worst water and the worst air in the world -- except for four individuals, who were taken to a ruined fortress in Cyprus. No sooner had we arrived in Acre than they imprisoned us in a ruined barracks, even the women and six-month old children, and they forthwith shut the doors of entry and exit. We have now been imprisoned in the ruined barracks for fifty days, and, on account of the badness of the water and air, we have all been stricken by serious illnesses, such that, after two days, three people died without a physician or food or medicine. Up until now, we have not learnt the nature of our crime. There has been no enquiry. But neither wrongdoing nor acts contrary to the laws have ever been witnessed from us.... We beseech your excellency to turn your attention towards us, so that the breezes of the grace and bounty of his imperial highness the Sultan may blow upon us. Our fundamental aim is perchance to find shelter from these widespread tribulations in the shade of the protection of the most mighty, great, and noble Emperor, may his exalted shadow endure, and that we may occupy ourselves in prayer for his eternal rule.  BH01440

This page of my supplications and visitation prayers has been written out of the intensity of my heart's grief. I hope it may fall under Thy gaze due to my helplessness and poverty. Two enclosures from two learned, unified masters have arrived and are being forwarded to Thy presence. As both are known to Thee by their handwriting, it is hoped they may dispel the false doubts of the people and become a cause of nearness.   BB00647

We beseech God to raise up one of His men, and to detach him from all creation, and to adorn his heart with the vesture of might and confidence, that he may help his Lord amidst the concourse of the universe, and, when he becometh aware of what hath been revealed for His Majesty the Shah, he may arise and take the Tablet, by the permission of his Lord, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful, and hasten to the residence of His Majesty.  BH04073

O Lord! Verily Thy servant who is humbled at the threshold of Thy holiness, who hath spread the carpet of justice among Thy creatures, who hath raised the pavilion of equity in those regions, who hath protected the oppressed from the evil of the people of tyranny - he hath preserved Thy stranger servant in those lands who diffuseth the holy fragrances among the righteous, and he hath delivered him from the evil of the wicked ones   AB03604

O Physician! We hear the lamentation of the House. It saith: "O Lord! Deliver me from the wrongdoing people. O my God! Send forth one who will take me, free me, and restore me. Thou art, verily, powerful over this, and Thou art the Mighty, the Omnipotent. How long shall I remain in the possession of those who have denied Thee and Thy mighty signs? O Lord! Deliver me from these polytheists who heard not Thy call nor answered Thee."   BH01027

There is none to help me save Thee, and none to assist me except Thee. Thou art my Helper, my Protector, my Succourer, and my Companion. Therefore guard me, O my God, with the eye of Thy protection, and shelter me, O my Beloved, in the cave of Thy preservation and care. Open before all faces the gates of Thy mercy, admit me beneath the shade of the tree of Thy loving-kindness, enable me to serve Thee, and assist me to exalt Thy Word.  AB00047

Your esteemed husband reached the threshold of the Most Great Name, and placed his head upon the dust of the Court, and beseeched assistance and bounty that all the family, nay rather the entire household, might become, through the blessing of the Ancient Beauty, the manifestations of the Most Great Grace, and attain supreme triumph, and find their way to the highest paradise, becoming verses of guidance and signs of the Abha Kingdom.  AB11793

In these days there are momentous reasons that prevent everyone from coming to this city. Coming is in no way permissible or advisable, and I cannot write the details. If it were possible, you yourself would observe how many great and universal obstacles exist. In any case, according to the command and will, it is submitted that you must certainly postpone it for now. God willing, as soon as the obstacles are removed, you will be informed.  AB04018

Glory be unto Thee, O Light of the world and Manifestation of the Unseen amidst the nations! I beseech Thee by Thy mysteries hidden in Thy knowledge and Thy verses treasured therein that Thou ordain for Thy Afnan, whom Thou hast related to Thyself and mentioned from Thy Most Exalted Pen in Thy Scriptures and Tablets, the good of the hereafter and of this world and whatsoever beseemeth Thy generosity and bounty, O Lord of Names and Creator of heaven!  BH00776

This Wronged-One wrote him, Discard such thoughts. Praying for the Shah is obligatory for you, all Iranians, and Us. We do not desire liberty, nor rule. Were We after leadership, what authority could have been better than occupying the post of minister in Tihran? For the sake of God, We have arisen to improve the morals of a number of people, wronged in this world. Never again write in this vein to Us. Never again put such requests to this Wronged-One.  BHU0066

It is, therefore, incumbent on me to present the plea of these oppressed ones before the King of the World. I pray he may show such grace that men will behave towards these downtrodden ones as they do towards others and may not transgress the basic laws of the nations. It befits the sun to rise up and shed its light, and it behoves the cloud to pour down rain. It is, therefore, necessary for his highness the King to look after the interests of an oppressed people.  BH01925

It would have been meet for His Majesty the Sultan to have gathered an assembly and called Us to be present, that he should have investigated the matter, and had he then found any portent of sedition, any sign of anything contrary to the Will of God, to have meted out this treatment to which he hath now resorted. He should have asked Us to present him proofs of what We profess. Should he have found Us wanting, then he could have subjected Us to whatever he wished.  BHU0020

I beseech Thee by the power which none except Thy knowledge hath encompassed and none save Thy Most Exalted Pen hath reckoned, to preserve the monotheists from the evil of these ones. By Thy might, O my God! The matter hath nearly reached a point where none shall remain on earth to remember Thee and worship Thee and speak Thy praise and mention. O Lord! Withhold not Thy servants from the ocean of Thy grace and the effulgences of the lights of the sun of Thy providence.  BH11486

The purpose of inscribing these lines is that a petition has been written to His Most Holy Presence - may God perpetuate His exalted glory - and entrusted to one of the friends of Truth to present immediately upon arrival and request permission for an audience. Since this was made contingent upon the movement of the royal star, the excuse for not granting audience was explained. Now that impediment has been removed, yet in any case we await what response may issue from the Holy Presence.  BB00646

Present the full details to His Imperial Majesty and to His Excellency the Prime Minister, that these riffraff are unaware of the world of civilization and in the human realm are without benefit, effect or fruit - crude, ill-tempered, heedless, ignorant and enemies of the wise. We only request this much kindness: that you somewhat prevent the evil of these souls so that we may engage in service with perfect truthfulness, uprightness and devotion to reality, and may serve the just monarch.   AB04037

Your servant, the Victorious One, awaits the wonders of Your favors, supplicating to You, contemplating Your Cause, grateful for Your benevolence. The fire of Your love burns in his heart, his patience is exhausted from longing to attain Your presence, and his tears flow from yearning to witness Your beauty. He seeks assistance from You, takes refuge in Your shelter, and seeks protection in Your proximity. He wishes for preservation and security, and seeks aid, safeguarding and tranquility   AB07078

My God, my God! Thou seest me advancing towards that whereunto Thou hast bidden me turn, clinging to Thy Most Firm Handle, and awaiting the wonders of Thy mercy, O Lord of all being and King of the throne above and the earth below. O Lord! I beseech Thee by the fire of Thy love which hath enkindled the hearts of Thy chosen ones, and by the wine of Thy utterance which hath attracted the hearts of Thy loved ones and so transported them through the potency of Thy Word that they hastened unto Thy good-pleasure.  BH00815

When they inquired about His blessed name and homeland, stating that according to law these questions must be asked and recorded, He declared: It is more evident than the sun. When asked again, He said: It is not befitting to mention the name. Look at the government decree which you have. Then, with utmost gentleness, they requested that He Himself declare it. Thereupon, the Temple of Grandeur sat upright upon the chair and spoke with the tongue of power and might: My name is Baha'u'llah and My dwelling place is Nur.  BH11866

In the name of my Generous Lord and my Merciful God. Look upon my wretched state. I am helpless and weak, impatient and restless. I place my hope in Your grace and favor. I am without head or order, broken-hearted and scattered, dejected in heart and withered in soul. I seek aid, protection and mercy. I am helpless, fallen, and wandering. I seek grace and benevolence. I am sorrowful, my heart bleeds, I am distracted. I hope for endless favors. My Lord, bestow Your grace, Your care, Your protection. I seek the gift of both worlds.   AB11937

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Him through Whom Thou didst aid Thy Cause and manifest Thy Will and raise high the banners of Thy Unity and the standards of detachment, and by His family and companions, to make this servant of Thine one who acts according to Thy command, who speaks Thy praise, and who hopes for Thy grace from the horizon of Thy bounty. O my Lord! Ordain for me that which will not cease to spread its fragrance throughout the eternity of Thy names. Thou art verily the Almighty, the Powerful, and worthy to answer prayer.  BH06105

O my God, O my God! I ask Thee by Thy strengthening grace, and by Thy divine and unseen assistance, and by the outpourings of Thy mercy, to aid the exalted Ottoman government and the Caliphate of Muhammad in becoming established in the earth and firmly seated upon the throne, and to safeguard her regions from calamities and preserve her center of authority from afflictions. O Lord! Keep her in the shelter of Thy guard and protection, preserve her with the eye of Thy loving-kindness, and surround her with the glances of Thy divine mercy.  AB07851

I wish to say that, although we have never met, I have heard much of your excellency's praiseworthy qualities, that you behaved with kindness towards all the people, especially my followers, when you were in Tehran. I, therefore, considered it necessary to give you a short account of what has taken place, that perhaps through your excellency's attentions some may find peace and dwell in the shade of the protection of the Prince of the Age, the Monarch of the Era, the King of the World, the Most Mighty, Most Noble, and Most Great Emperor.... Since your excellency is informed as to how things are in Iran, I beg of you to present my petition before the throne of the King of the Age, that perchance he may perform an act of grace whereby the hearts of some people may be put at rest, that all may find ease in the cradle of the protection and security of the Monarch of the World and in the shadow of his bounty. The one God is witness that I have not entertained and do not entertain any thought of myself. I am content with whatever has been written down by the supreme pen on the Tablet of Fate. From the first day that I recognized the Truth, I have set aside both life and property. Nay, at every moment I hope and pray that I may offer up my soul as a sacrifice in the path of the Beloved of the worlds. But since a large number of individuals have been oppressed, I have felt it necessary to explain how matters stand. I beg you to let no-one know of this until the purpose of this petition has been achieved.   BH01047

He is God! O my God, Supporter of the sincere ones and those steadfast in Thy Covenant and confident in Thy promise! Aid these, Thy servants, to serve at the threshold of Thy holiness, and make them signs of guidance and stars of piety, shining from the supreme horizon and gleaming from the highest zenith. Make firm their feet that they slip not through the doubts of the people of passion and desire. Verily, Thou dost protect whomsoever Thou willest through Thy power that prevaileth over all things. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  AB00450

O Thou peerless Beloved and matchless Lord! Through pure grace and bounty Thou didst open the gates of bestowal, and didst illuminate Thy face, and didst captivate hearts, and didst remove sorrows, and didst sing such a melody that hearts became enchanted and minds became intoxicated. What happened that Thou became secluded and veiled Thy beauteous countenance? Therefore, O Lord, spread the fragrances of mysteries from Thy Most Glorious Kingdom and make the lights shine forth from Thy Supreme Heaven so that the horizons may remain fragrant and illumined.   AB06751

O Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin! This Wronged One beseecheth God to adorn the sovereign of Iran with the light of justice and fairness. In recent years his majesty's heart hath turned toward the oppressed ones. It is hoped that gradually the fruits thereof may emerge from the unseen into the visible realm, and from concealment into the arena of manifestation, inasmuch as this Wronged One hath loved and still loveth faithfulness, and hath desired to behold the realm of Iran as it behooveth. We beseech God to assist his majesty in that which He loveth and is pleased with.  BH11622

Say: My God, my God! Draw Thy loved ones nigh unto that station from which the fragrance of Thy meeting is wafted. O my Lord! They are Thy servants and Thy creation. They desire naught except to attain presence before the throne of Thy grandeur and to arrive at that place wherein Thy most sweet call and the scratching of Thy Most Exalted Pen are raised. O my Lord! Draw them nigh through Thy will, then cause them to enter through that gate which Thou hast opened unto the world through Thy Most Great Name. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.  BH11921

Agreeably to this view a letter was issued addressed to the Bab in his Majesty's own writing, and, according to the traditional account of the tenor of this letter, the epitome thereof is this: (After the titles). Since the royal train is on the verge of departure from Tihran, to meet in a befitting manner is impossible. Do you go to Maku and there abide and rest for a while, engaged in praying for our victorious state; and we have arranged that under all circumstances they shall show you attention and respect. When we return from travel we will summon you specially.  AB00003

O my God, my Lord! We are weak and hopeful of Thy grace. We cling to the cord of Thy generosity and hold fast to the hem of the robe of Thy bounty. Leave us not to ourselves. O Mighty One, take the hands of the weak and deliver them from the abyss of idle fancies and desire. Thou art the Helper and Thou art the Powerful. We are helpless and we are weak. Without Thy grace, the spirit hath no comfort, and without Thy bestowal, the soul hath no effect. O Generous One! Adorn our unworthy deeds with the ornament of acceptance, and conceal our unseemly words with Thy forbearance.   BH00215

Convey greetings to the General of that land on behalf of these people who are scattered throughout the world, and say: This people, in view of the favor that hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of justice of His Majesty the Emperor, are all looking unto him and holding fast unto his good-pleasure. For this reason the oppressive souls have instigated a group against this wronged people, and have again stained the soil of some lands with blood shed in the path of God. We beseech God to assist that Dawning-Place of justice and equity in protecting this wronged band.  BH00207

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having shown me Thy highest horizon and caused me to hear the scratching of Thy Most Glorious Pen. I testify that Thou hast guided them that are on earth to Thy path, made them to know Thy proof, and commanded them to that which profiteth them in every world of Thy worlds. I beseech Thee by the billows of the ocean of Thy knowledge, by the standards which Thou didst raise up by Thy command, and by the signs which were elevated throughout the earth by Thy power and sovereignty, that Thou forgive Thy servants even as Thou didst forgive him who gave up his spirit in Thy path.   BH00728

Glorified art Thou, O God of earth and heaven and Lord of all mankind! I beseech Thee by that which was hidden in Thy knowledge, inscribed in Thy Book, and recorded by the Pen of Thy Command, to aid Thy servants to acknowledge Thy unity and confess Thy singleness. O Lord! Withhold them not from the ocean of Thy grace and the heaven of Thy bounty. Thou knowest what is in their hearts and hast power to transform and build them anew. They are Thy servants and Thy creatures; Thou hast manifested them through Thy bounty and fashioned them through Thy grace. I beseech Thee to protect them from the heat of the sun and the harm of the rains.   BH00185

Glory be to Thee, O Thou in Whose grasp is the reins of existence! I beseech Thee by the light of Thy countenance and the splendor of Thy face to assist Thy servants to remain steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that the oppression of those who have denied Thy signs may not grieve them. O my Lord! Purify the earth from the defilement of these ones and sanctify it from those who have turned away from Thee and have risen to destroy Thy House which was built by the hands of Thy power. O my Lord! Ordain for me and my brothers that which will benefit us in all the worlds of Thy worlds. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH01603

Glory be unto Thee, O Thou Who answereth them that are in distress and Who art the Refuge of them that flee! I beseech Thee by the heaven of Thy Will and the ocean of Thy Purpose and the sun of Thy Wisdom to make Thy loved ones among those whom Thou hast described in Thy Books and Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets. Then protect them, O my God, from the evil of Thy creatures who have broken Thy Covenant and disbelieved in Thy proof and disputed Thy signs and denied Thy clear tokens after they had encompassed Thy heaven and Thy earth. Then inspire them, O God of the world and Lord of eternity, with that whereby Thy Cause may be exalted in Thy dominion.   BH01202

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I beseech Thee to assist me in uniting the hearts of Thy loved ones and setting right their affairs in Thy days. I testify, O my God, to my poverty and Thy wealth, my powerlessness and Thy might, my weakness and Thy strength. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy wisdom to aid me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with. Then I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, by Thy Most Great Prison and Thy tribulations among the nations, and by Thy utterance through which Thou didst subdue the world, to make me a banner of Thy Name and an ensign of Thy love.  BH00247

O my God and the God of all worlds, my Goal and the Goal of all who dwell in the heavens and the earth! O Thou towards Whose heaven of grace all hands are upraised, towards Whose horizon of bounty and favor all eyes are fixed, and by the sweet savors of Whose days of reunion and the fragrances of Whose robe of nearness and meeting all hearts are stirred! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, through which Thou wert wronged amongst Thy creation and imprisoned amidst Thy creatures, to preserve me beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy mercy. Then ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, and decree for me the reward of those who have attained unto Thy presence and stood before Thy face.   BH00415

Now, with an illumined heart, a merciful spirit, heavenly attraction and divine confirmation, visit the Sacred Threshold on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha. Place your brow upon the Threshold of the Manifest Light, perfume your face and hair with its radiant and fragrant dust, and in utmost lowliness and need, supplicate and beseech on my behalf, and seek confirmation and success. For great trials lie ahead and numerous difficulties surround us, and 'Abdu'l-Baha is in utmost weakness and feebleness. Therefore, he is in need of the assistance of the Most Great Name and dependent upon the favors of the Ancient Beauty, that in this path the confirmations of God may become the best guide and His grace may become the companion of the way.  AB00700

Glory be unto Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven! We confess our powerlessness, our shortcomings, our transgression of our bounds, and our misdeeds that have prevented us from drawing nigh unto Thee, and our sins that have come between us and the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of Thy grace and the manifestations of Thy favors. O Lord! We have fled from ourselves to the shadow of the canopies of Thy generosity. I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Places of Thy revelation, the Daysprings of Thy inspiration, the Recipients of Thy knowledge, the Manifestations of Thy Self, the Sources of Thy Cause, and by the Seal of Thy Prophets, to assist us in what hath escaped us, then illumine our hearts with the lights of Thy knowledge.  BH01308

Among these is the binding command of His Honor - may God prolong his glory - which hath become the cause of the appearance of these published pages. It is hoped from the grace of the All-Bountiful Lord and the special favors of His Honor - may God perpetuate his prosperity - that these draft pages will prove acceptable to the sanctified minds, both in meaning and expression, until such time as the prescribed copies are published in the finest calligraphy in that grace-bestowing presence, and become the cause for manifesting gratitude's inability to thank His Honor for his bounties and serve as a reminder of Abdullah's matter which is imprinted in the mirror of his luminous thoughts, so that it may never be erased from his radiant mind.  BB00515

O Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thy most exalted horizon, acknowledging Thy oneness and Thy singleness, O Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens! I testify that through Thy manifestation the decree of resurrection was revealed, the Hour came to pass, the mountains were moved, the Trumpet was blown, and all who are in the heavens and on earth were thunderstruck, save those whom Thou didst deliver through Thy bounty and shelter beneath the pavilions of Thy grace. O Lord! Separation from Thee hath caused my death, and my liver hath melted from remoteness from the court of Thy nearness. I beseech Thee by the power through which Thou didst transform remoteness into nearness and darkness into light, to ordain for me by Thy Most Exalted Pen that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and trusted ones. Then cause me, O my God, to be so set ablaze with the fire of Thy love that Thy servants may be enkindled thereby.   BH00995

I wish to say that, although we have never met, I have heard much of your excellency's praiseworthy qualities, that you behaved with kindness towards all the people, especially my followers, when you were in Tehran. I, therefore, considered it necessary to give you a short account of what has taken place, that perhaps through your excellency's attentions some may find peace and dwell in the shade of the protection of the Prince of the Age, the Monarch of the Era, the King of the World, the Most Mighty, Most Noble, and Most Great Emperor.... Since your excellency is informed as to how things are in Iran, I beg of you to present my petition before the throne of the King of the Age, that perchance he may perform an act of grace whereby the hearts of some people may be put at rest, that all may find ease in the cradle of the protection and security of the Monarch of the World and in the shadow of his bounty. The one God is witness that I have not entertained and do not entertain any thought of myself. I am content with whatever has been written down by the supreme pen on the Tablet of Fate. From the first day that I recognized the Truth, I have set aside both life and property. Nay, at every moment I hope and pray that I may offer up my soul as a sacrifice in the path of the Beloved of the worlds. But since a large number of individuals have been oppressed, I have felt it necessary to explain how matters stand. I beg you to let no-one know of this until the purpose of this petition has been achieved.   BH01047

