
if you desire protection from the powers of the world and earthly influences, place the Greatest Name in your dwelling, wear the ring of the Greatest Name, and keep Abdul Baha'is photograph in your home. Read my prayers always and thus see a wonderful effect, causing all superstitious powers and influences to vanish away.  AB06032

However, this servant has never liked and does not like the reproduction and distribution of his own photograph.  AB05988

It is not permitted to hang the blessed photograph in rooms, however there is no harm in hanging the Greatest Name or "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" or photographs of the Holy Shrine or photographs of places where Baha'u'llah resided   AB03499

Know that this imprisoned one never had a picture taken except in youth, and that one also on account of the command and will of BAHA'O'LLAH, I merely consented so as to obey His command. Therefore I do not like it to be greatly spread.   AB05261

In Paris, for your sake I went to the photography studio twice. He took photos during an address and visitation, but the visitation was not completed. I went a third time but he broke his promise - despite having set an appointment, the photographer attended to others, so I departed.  AB08058


One day suffering him to sit under the Lotus tree and another day placing Jesus over the cross! At the very utmost the photographs are for remembrance and not for worship. If we keep a photograph just for memory's sake no harm is done but if we offer to it extraordinary homage it is pure idolatry. It was for this very reason that I always refused to be photographed.  ABU1784

The contents of thy letter were perused and the enclosed picture noticed. The one in the middle is Jinab-i-Kalim, that is Aqa Mirza Musa. The one on his right is Haji Mirza Ahmad-i-Kashi and on his left Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani. Standing are: Hadrat-i-Nabil and Jinab-i-Aqa Muhammad Sadiq-i-Isfahani. This picture was taken in Istanbul. It is not that of the Blessed Beauty. There are two types of pictures of the Blessed Beauty, each one depicting a different pose, and both were taken in Adrianople. They are distinct and clear and absolutely unmistakable.  AB05703

One day four photography devices were ready at the door of the house to take a photograph the moment I emerged. That day this servant did not leave the house until dark night fell. The next day they were ready again. There was no choice except to cover my head with an aba and quickly enter the automobile from the house door. Again it was not possible, for one day we were invited to the home of the maidservant of God, the attracted one Mrs. Cropper. With utmost precaution against photographs being taken, when I emerged from the automobile I entered the house with great speed, but there was a house opposite, and from that house they had positioned a camera lens facing the street from a room and took a poor photograph from behind. The next day it was printed in the newspapers, but in an unsuitable form. Therefore I was compelled to have a photograph taken by a skilled photographer so that inappropriate photographs would cease.   AB01551
