
Q. Are the Manifestations limited? A. They are limited only by the capacity of souls to whom They reveal the Word.   ABU3576

Those who looked at the material body of Christ and saw Him enduring all the hardships and trials, marveled that he was the Messiah because he was in this condition.   ABU1656

Although for the last three years of His life he hardly ate anything. The servants brought the tray before Him, he looked at the various dishes, ate a few mouthfuls and it was immediately removed.   ABU1649

Like all human beings, They eat and drink, are hungry and thirsty, are weary and in need of rest, and experience such conditions as sorrow and joy, health and sickness. Even Their physical form is in need of clothing and nourishment.   AB00345

The body or the flesh was 'sorrowful and very heavy' because it loathed to be separated from the companionship of such a divine, celestial Spirit and be returned to clay and dust. This was the secret of its weakness, sorrow and heaviness.  ABU1363


Their bodies perceive things only according to the capacity of the material world; and so it is that they have at certain times expressed physical weakness. For example: I was asleep and unconscious; the breeze of God wafted over Me, awoke Me, and summoned Me to voice His call; or when Christ was baptized in His thirtieth year and the Holy Spirit descended upon Him, having not manifested itself in Him before this time.  AB00747

For instance, the people noticed that Jesus Christ was the same as all other men as regards eating, drinking, sleeping, sickness, fatigue, clothing and lodging. They said he was one like themselves and did not understand how he could be the Son of God. As he was a human being, a natural man, the people wondered how he could claim to be a heavenly man. Because he needed food, the people did not believe he could be the manifestation of opulence. He was obliged to sleep, and was a captive in the hands of the Jews, therefore they could not believe he knew the mysteries of the heart and was the Minister of the Kingdom.  ABU0076

