
Consider, this very day several thousand people are treading the ground between Safa and Marwih.  BHU0071

Thou didst migrate unto God and visit His House which was raised up in His Name, the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH05292

during the season that the pilgrims come from all over the Islamic world to visit the Holy Shrines of the Mohamadans   ABU1875

who visited the House of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Verily he visited a House which God built with the hands of His power   BH05662

these blows and hardships were endured on the path of circumambulating the House of God and visiting the illumined shrine of the Master of existence   AB02821

In the name of Him, the All-Glorious, on the third day of the third ten days of this holy month, the sacred month of God, He accomplished the rites of the lesser and greater pilgrimages.  BB00084

This is a symbol, just as the circumambulation of the Ka'bah must be performed at a specified time and in a specified place where they must remove their garments from their body at once.  ABU3121

I ask God, exalted be He, to open the gates of joy and delight upon the faces of His friends, chosen ones and loved ones who left their homes to circumambulate His House and to traverse between Safa and Marwa.   BH01421

In the Qur'an one verse was revealed stating "Pilgrimage to the House is a duty unto God for mankind." See how many millions of souls from distant lands and different sects gather each year under the shade of this blessed word for pilgrimage   ABU1601

Now they run from a hundred thousand leagues to visit that Threshold and raise an uproar in that desert crying "Here I am!" But on the day of His appearance they were deniers and antagonists. Now the people of Mecca take pride in being neighbors.  AB01008

One who prostrates to the Ka'bih has prostrated to Truth, not to it, since it is related to Truth. Relationship is of two kinds - metaphorical and real. The relationship of the Prince of Martyrs was real, the relationship of the Ka'bih metaphorical   ABU1119

One thousand three hundred years have passed, and still the attraction of the First Word is manifest and visible in the world, such that every year they turn their faces from all regions with the intention of circumambulation. For God is their excellence, for God is their turning, for God is their orientation.  BH02075

His path is clear and His proof is evident. Reflect upon the power of this blessed word: from the day of its revelation until now, the people of the Covenant from all regions and directions have been and continue to be oriented toward it with utmost longing and yearning. They have borne all afflictions, calamities, hardships, injuries and difficulties of every kind on the path as they hastened toward the Friend.   BH01941

When thou desirest to reach the land of Najaf, purify thyself with the fire of that holy land like unto a reed nurtured by the sun of heaven. When thou art purified from all allusions, then wash thy face with the water of Manifestation and thy body with the water of the sea. Then clothe thy inner self with the garments of the Gate upon the mystery of dust, and outwardly don the cleanest and purest raiment thou canst find. Then use whatever pure perfume thou art able, for this is the sign of the pure ones.  BB00077

Concerning what you wrote about the wife of His Holiness the King of Martyrs (may my spirit be a sacrifice for him) finding it impossible to turn towards the House of God - this matter is not correct, for all Muslims from all directions have turned and do turn toward the House, and pilgrimage to the House is obligatory upon all, as expressed in His exalted Word: Pilgrimage to the House is a duty unto God for all who are able to make the journey. The condition is ability: whosoever is able to find a way thereto. How many servants, together with their wives and children, both young and old, do make this journey.  BH01358
