

Blessed art thou for having migrated unto God and detached thyself from thy home for the love of God, the King, the Mighty, the Loving.  BH02513

"In movements there is life, in immobility there is death. The traveling of the teachers from place to place, from Orient to Occident, and from country to country, is one of the greatest means for spreading the Fragrances, and for sowing spiritual seeds in the souls of the people."  ABU3365


Blessed art thou, O thou who hast migrated unto God, for having departed from My City and turned thy face toward My countenance until thou didst enter this noble station. Rejoice thou in this most great favor   BH04793

And if means become available, emigrate to other lands for the sake of God's Cause - this hath been and ever shall be praiseworthy, for in some countries there exist receptive souls, yet guides and teachers are lacking.  BH03336

You should in all conditions be mindful of the state of the travelers and emigrants - upon them be the grace of God and His mercy - for these souls are souls who have been blessed with the infinite outpourings of the Lord of Names and Attributes   BH03762

Give thanks to God, your Lord, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate, for having enabled you to travel through lands and be a stranger far from home, proclaiming the rising of the Sun of Truth in those regions and exalting the Word of God with proofs and clear evidences  AB02262

Therefore believers should be despatched to other regions and new areas to promote the divine teachings. Even travelling and passing through these foreign lands is beneficial, for there are some places so isolated from others that the friends do not receive news from anywhere.  AB01081

Likewise, teachers must travel to various regions. If teaching would cause mischief, let them engage in encouraging and educating the friends so that those souls may become attracted and joyous, seeking gladness and rapture, finding new life and becoming fresh and verdant through the holy fragrances.  AB01174

O wanderer of mountain, plain and desert! Praise be to the holy Lord God that you have been confirmed in wandering and homelessness on the path of the All-Merciful. You have not rested for a moment nor sought a breath of repose. Like the sighs of lovers you have run to every height, and like the tears of the yearning ones you have flowed down every slope. AB02244

