It would now be fitting to prepare the means of travel to other planets!  ABU3758

How large is the Creation of God! How stupendous is His machinery! How infinite is His dominion! How majestic is His divine system! How imperial is His Holy Court! Were it possible to build a heavenly railway; were it possible to invent an aeroplane to establish communication between the various planets many marvelous discoveries would have been achieved. Then the inhabitants of the earth could associate with the denizens of other spheres.  ABU2615


But these endless planets are all from the world of matter and their being is bound by composition and decomposition, whereas the world of the Kingdom is sanctified from composition and decomposition. However, it is clear that every vessel has contents, every dwelling a dweller, every rose-garden a flower and every orchard a tree and a nightingale. Obviously these vast worlds are not empty and void and their creation has not been vain and futile.  AB01847

However the grandeur and majesty of God is shown through His spiritual works and realities and not so much [by] the signs of life on this planet.   ABU0441

in every water, plant and fruit there exist animals which humans cannot avoid consuming - the only difference is in degree of strength and weakness  ABU3023

The philosophers have taken this fact as a proof that minerals have life and that there is nothing without life. It is also true in the vegetable- even cotton has a feeling. It has been proven that is has a certain motion- it has been proved practically.   ABU0475

"Although this globe of ours is very small, yet it has all these living beings--can it be imagined that these tremendous bodies hanging in the limitless atmosphere are without inhabitants? The creation of God is infinite. The worlds of God are numberless."  ABU1707

Every one of these stars is like unto the sphere of earth and with the utmost grandeur are inhabited by living beings. Notwithstanding that this sphere of earth is so small it contains very many different species, then know how much more those great celestial bodies! Existing beings live in each one according to its composition and it is sure that none are void.  AB09727



As to thy question regarding the planets, when thou asketh whether the planets that orbit their central suns through the power of attraction possess creatures like those of earth: Know that in the clear text of the Qur'an, God hath given a complete and sufficient explanation that delighteth the ears, saying that in the creation of the heavens and the earth and whatever creatures He hath spread forth in both of them. He explicitly states that in both heaven and earth there exist beings that move by will. Without doubt or uncertainty, every being that moves by will must either possess animal life or human reality.  AB00501

The earth has its inhabitants, the water and the air contain many living beings and all the elements have their nature spirits, then how is it possible to conceive that these stupendous stellar bodies are not inhabited? Verily, they are peopled, but let it be known that the dwellers accord with the elements of their respective spheres. These living beings do not have states of consciousness like unto those who live on the surface of this globe: the power of adaptation and environment moulds their bodies and states of consciousness, just as our bodies and minds are suited to our planet....  The components of the sun differ from those of this earth, for there are certain light and life-giving elements radiating from the sun. Exactly the same elements may exist in two bodies, but in varying quantities. For instance, there is fire and air in water, but the alloted measure is small in proportion. They have discovered that there is a great quantity of radium in the sun; the same element is found on the earth, but in a much smaller degree. Beings who inhabit those distant luminous bodies are attuned to the elements that have gone into the composition of their respective spheres.   ABU0654
