I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed, Love's fool am I, in all the earth. They call me first among the crazed, Though I once came first for wit and worth.  AB04934

The Day has dawned, the horizons of the world are radiant with light, The night of separation has turned to morning, now is the time of reunion.  AB09045

Whoever becomes a porter at this threshold, Becomes sovereign over the realm of heart and soul  AB09049

as the poet has said: "Listen thou to the tale thyself."  BH11313

The chain of Joseph's prison becomes a collar of grace, In the Egypt of Truth, he becomes sovereign to every land  AB06475

This loop of Baha fell into that collar of tribulation which was Thy hair. Every fragrance of musk that reaches the nostrils comes from Thy sweet nature.  AB08358

O my faithful one, O my faithful one, You are the shining light in the gathering, You are the tall palm tree of paradise, You are the speaking bird in the rose garden  AB04409

The tress of the Beloved is a snare, the black mole a grain within, For the bird of the heart, in each strand there's no peace - it's madness there   AB02002

"Where is this musician from, who spoke the Friend's name?"  AB03009

as Sheikh Sa'di says, "Patience is bitter but has sweet fruit."  AB05390

O Thou the Beauty of Abha! O Thou my most exalted Lord! O Thou the Tree of my Sinai! Ransom my life for a glimpse of Thee!  AB04431

I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed, Love's fool am I, in all the earth. They call me first among the crazed, Though I once came first for wit and worth. AB03263

I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed, Love's fool am I, in all the earth. They call me first among the crazed, Though I once came first for wit and worth.  AB05354

'Tis from Our rapture that the clouds of realms above are raining down; 'Tis from Our anthem that the mysteries of faith are raining down.  Upon the Eastern wind Cathay's entrancing musk doth waft; This sweetly scented breeze from Our curling locks is raining down.  BH03230

If we remain alive we shall mend The garment that separation has rent  AB09672

As the poet says: "Bitter words befit those sugar-dispensing ruby lips."  AB09673

"Whoever in this feast is more favored / Is given a fuller cup of trial"   AB03366

As the Arab poet says: I am drowning, so what fear have I of getting wet?  AB11181

As the poet sayeth: Tumult and sedition pervade every atom of the universe.  AB10975

"Whoever in this feast is more favored Is given a fuller cup of tribulation"  AB07593

If we remain alive we will mend the garment that has been torn by separation.  AB06405

Open the hand of generosity, Forgive the sins of nations, O King of Creation! See the time for bounty, See Moses' fire, See Sinai's flame, See Jesus' breath, Awaken, awaken!  AB04550

The new spring has come, the new rose of Truth has bloomed, The speaking nightingale of Truth begins its heart-burning melody  AB05428

The drop of knowledge that You bestowed from before / Connect it to Your own seas   AB07259

"The narcissus has emerged from the bulb and the rose has sprouted from the thorn"   AB06663

"Wherever You are with me, I am content Even if my dwelling be in the depths of a well"  AB07190

In childhood this verse was heard: "When I have Thee I have all; naught else do I need."  BH09039

Nightingales, O Nightingales! The season of roses, of rose bowers, has come!  Mystics, O Mystics! The Unseen, in manifest form, has arrived!  BH04998

Is the bottom of the sea better or the surface? Is His arrow more alluring or the shield?  AB04039

"Not all that one desires does one attain; The winds blow counter to what ships require."  AB04186

Thy name was mentioned and the lovers heard it; Both the hearer and speaker began to dance.  AB11180

"Whence comes this minstrel who hath spoken my name? 'Abdu'l-Baha is my name, truth my aim!"  AB07950

The Sinai of Truth became luminous, The sacred valley became Mount Tur, The mysteries of Truth became manifest, The buried became flourishing  AB04402

Blind be the eye that weeps not for thee, May that heart turn to blood that burns not for thee.  AB09023

Green and verdant are my poppies, Aha! Ahoy, come out, O boys! "Insouciant" is here with joys.   ABU2634

"Firdawsi says: The first sovereign who established dominion, The chief of kings was Kiyumars"   AB10103

Love was from the first rebellious and bloodthirsty / So that whoever was an outsider would flee  AB06066

"Whoever in this feast is drawn closer still, is given to drink more fully from the cup of woe."  AB02217

From these weak-natured people my heart is weary; I long for the Lion of God and Rustam the hero.  AB09084

How can I raise my head before the Friend in shame, For no worthy service came forth from my hand?  AB05236

These bitter days, more bitter than poison, shall pass Once again shall days sweet as sugar return  AB12319

That is why His Holiness Christ says: Leave thy net. Come and I will make thee the fisher of man.   ABU2741

"These bitter days, more bitter than poison, shall pass Once again days sweet as sugar shall come."  AB06695

"How can I raise my head before the Friend in shame, When no worthy service has come from my hand?"  AB05149

O Candle of the Night-chamber of Truth, bestow light upon the horizons, Take from the Sun, bestow flame and radiance, In the Orient scatter perfumes, And shed splendours on the West. AB06477

O my rosebud-mouth, come see my distressed heart Without you I still live - see how hard-hearted I am  AB03225

"Knowest thou what the harp and lute are saying? Drink wine in secret, for they accuse of infidelity."  AB06875

At dawn the Friend came to my bed:  'O fool for love, o broken heart, O thou, who pinest for Me wherever thou art, And wherever thou art liest imprisoned for Me  BH02406

The Maid of Eternity came from the Exalted Paradise; Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah, O Glad Tidings! With harp and with song, with crimson goblet she came. Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah, O Glad Tidings!  BH02000

Kindle the fire of love and burn away all existence, Then take a step and enter the path of the lovers   AB03472

"They say that death is difficult for youth, but by God, separation from loved ones is more difficult."  AB02004

"Do you know what the harp and lute are saying? Drink wine in secret, for they pronounce it forbidden."  AB11984

During the sacred festivals and other occasions, compose brilliant odes in praise of the Blessed Beauty   AB02943

Kindle thou the fire of love and consume all existence, Then step forth and enter the path of the lovers.   AB05771

O Love! I am bewildered and maddened by thee And throughout all the world known for my passionate longing   AB06813

Yesterday, you were such that none was like you, Today, you have become such that none should be like you!   ABU0595

"A hundred thousand living hearts are needed on this path / To sacrifice a hundred lives with every breath"   AB05617

Until the ring of His tress becomes the collar of someone's neck - Oh we who stand proud outside the circle!   AB03191

The poet of Rum has said: When the seed is hidden in the earth, The secret of the garden's verdure it becomes.  AB04842

No heart yearns toward that Beloved with desire, No one sleeps with such a rose-cheeked one in their garment.   AB03688

One hand holds the wine-cup and one the loved one's tress Such a dance in the midst of the arena is my desire.  AB09517

When the rose is gone and the garden laid waste, From where shall we seek the rose's scent but from rosewater?  AB11341

"Though I be sinful, guilty, and a pauper of the age, Thy name is renowned throughout the regions of the world"  AB08796

Sheikh Hafiz said in his collection of poetry: "Though I write a thousand letters He never writes me an answer"  AB01679

Though the sand grouse may learn the call of the hoopoe, where is the hoopoe's secret and the message from Saba?  AB07335

"In one hand the wine-cup and in the other the Beloved's tress - Thus would I dance in the midst of the field!"   AB05161

"The blessed valley became entirely a rose garden of unity when the light of God illumined the Sinai of Truth."   AB06309

The Arab poet said: "When criticism comes to you from one who is deficient / It is testimony that I am perfect"   AB01524

Some of the Prophets had special poets, just as Hassan was the poet of the Messenger of God. Our poet is Varqa.   ABU3465

Take it pure, and if thou wishest to mix it, then to turn away from the wrong of the Beloved - that is the wrong.  AB08543

The fever of love cannot be broken by what is in the tavern / O Cupbearer, bring an ocean of that spiritual wine!  AB05774

Hafiz has said: These bitter days, more bitter than poison, shall pass; Once again days sweet as sugar shall come.  AB11138

The poems were eloquent and articulate, and possessed the utmost sweetness and charm. Their recitation brought joy.  AB10385

Hafiz of Shiraz says: I wonder how the wine-seller came to know / The divine secret that the mystic told to no one   AB03637

"Do you know what the harp and lute are saying? Drink wine in secret, for they pronounce accusations of infidelity"  AB02682

"Though sinful, criminal, and destitute in these days, Yet renowned is thy name throughout all regions of the world"  AB08796

"That singer has returned with the instrument tuned, Having opened wide the gate of trials to love..." [entire poem]   AB04262

The dervish's world was consumed by this soul-burning flame divine; 'Tis time to revive it through this plaintive cry!  AB09520

Yesterday the Shaykh wandered the city, lamp in hand, Crying: "Weary am I of demon and beast; human company I desire!"   BH01489

"Your ode of servitude arrived and perfect joy and delight was obtained from its sweet contents and delightful meanings"  AB05242

"How many poets have come to this world who have written elegies and eulogies in the utmost of eloquence and excellence"  AB06236

As Rumi says: The souls of wolves and dogs are separate from one another, but united are the souls of the lions of God.   AB04276

"The sign of the lover is that you find him cold to hell / The sign of the mystic is that you find him dry from the sea"   AB07384

I know not this or that, I am intoxicated with the cup of love / O musician play a melody, O cupbearer give the chalice.   AB04799

The Arab poet saith: Deaf am I when called in the tribe by my name, Yet when addressed as His servant, how keen is my ear!  AB10021

Yesterday the Sheikh went around the city with a lamp / Saying "I am weary of demons and beasts; I long for a human being"   AB05068

If on the night of separation death should overtake me, On the Day of Resurrection I shall pitch my tent beside the Friend.  AB10899

In the Orient scatter perfumes, And shed splendours on the West. Carry light unto the Bulgar, And the Slav with life invest.  AB07693

The Roman Mulla said: "The name Ahmad is the name of all the Prophets, for when a hundred comes, ninety is also before us."   AB06575

In the words of Ferdowsi: "In body an elephant living, in soul a Gabriel, Through the grace and favor of the Glorious Lord."  AB07486

"Whence comes this minstrel who utters the Friend's name, That I may sacrifice my soul and garment for the Friend's message?"  AB10484

"Whence comes this musician who uttered the Friend's name, That I may sacrifice my soul and garment in praise of the Friend?"  AB07620

And this digging and delving and excavation consisteth in striving and persevering to compose verses like unto strung pearls.  AB07797

In the words of the poet: "What is a veil between lover and beloved? Neither Alexander's wall is an obstacle nor a barrier."   AB04115

"Alas! These mischievous, sweet-natured, city-disturbing gypsies / Have stolen hearts away like Turks at a plundering feast"   AB00971

Were but the least of my sufferings cast upon the mountains, Mount Sinai would have crumbled before the Divine manifestation.  AB02964

We who have offered heart and soul in sacrifice to the All-Glorious-- Let flood and grief come and utterly uproot our dwelling.  AB08668

"The glory of Asaf, the horse of wind, the speech of birds - All passed away like wind, and from that master nothing remained"  AB04555

From where is this musician who spoke the Beloved's name, That I may sacrifice my soul and garment for the Beloved's message?   AB03727

'Attar hath well spoken of this matter: O 'Attar, thou hast scattered over the world A hundred thousand musk-pods every moment   BH03047

O dervish, the world has burned from this soul-consuming flame / Divine One! It is time to revive it through this plaintive cry  AB05534

I am intoxicated with the wine of love, drunk and inebriated with wine / O musician play a melody, O cupbearer give me the cup   AB02977

that they may become like laughing hundred-petaled roses in the heavenly garden and flowing cypresses by the stream of knowledge  AB09355

"The darvish of the world is consumed by this soul-burning flame divine, Now is the time to enliven through this plaintive cry."  AB09520

Nayriz burneth with fever, and my sorrow-filled heart sheddeth blood, How consumed my soul is, of what Adharbayjan hath wrought.  ABU3705

If He bestows the pearl of bestowal, behold hearts are its shells If the arrow of tribulation comes, behold souls are its target   AB02739

How excellent is what was said: "Live detached, for love's comfort is suffering - its beginning is illness and its end is death."  AB02773

Mir Findiriski says: This turning wheel which is thus delicate and pleasant and beautiful, Has below it a form of that which is above  AB04959

We who have given heart and sight to the flood of tribulation, Let the torrent of grief come and tear the house from its foundation!   AB03927

If He bestows the pearl of bounty, here are hearts as its shell / And if the arrow of affliction comes, here are souls as its target   AB02792

Let us see what the power of the Friend's arm can do - If the Holy Spirit's grace should help again, Others too will do what Jesus did.  AB02122

"If He bestows the pearl of grace, behold the souls are its shells / If the arrow of affliction comes, behold the hearts are its targets"  AB01508

In the words of Hafiz of Shiraz: "The moment I performed my ablutions at the fountain of love, I said four takbirs over all that exists."   AB07392

"When the rose is gone and the garden laid waste, Where else can we seek the fragrance of the rose but in rose water?" - quoted from Rumi   AB06202

"O thou our honored guest! God has given unto us an imperial palace! Look at its lofty dome! I wonder! What is the cause of thy rankling."  ABU2027

"If He bestows the pearl of bounty, behold the hearts are its shells, and if the arrow of calamity comes, behold the souls are its targets"  AB07266

What is the medicine of the yearning one? Poison from the hand of the Beloved What is the balm of lovers? Wounds from the arm of the Friend   AB07311

"If He bestows the pearl of bounty, behold the hearts are its shells And if the arrow of tribulation comes, behold the souls are its target"  AB03384

The poet says: "Yesterday, the Shaykh went about the city with a lamp, saying: 'I am weary of demon and beast - I long to find a human being.'"  AB09512

Whatsoever thou beholdest save God is an idol - shatter it; Whatsoever thou seest save His good-pleasure - inscribe it as religion in thy heart.  BHU0038

There is no tumult in the city save from the curling locks of the Beloved, No commotion in the world save from the arched eyebrow of the Friend.  AB09419

Hafiz of Shiraz says: "The lost Joseph shall return to Canaan, grieve not, The house of sorrows shall one day become a rose garden, grieve not."  AB07945

If the arrow of tribulation cometh, lo, here are hearts as its target; And if He bestoweth the pearl of grace, lo, here are hearts as its shell.   BH04768

"It is the season of festival, yet we are hopeless of seeing the Beloved. The world is in feasting and drinking, while we have tear-filled eyes"   AB06312

There is no commotion in the city except the curl of the Beloved's tress; There is no tumult in the horizons except the arch of the Friend's brow.  AB04118

What is the medicine of the yearning one? Poison from the hand of the Beloved. What is the balm of the lovers? Wounds from the arm of the Friend.   AB02211

A lover before his beloved / Spoke of his service and work / Not to impose obligation, but to show / A hundred proofs of the truth of his love...   AB00352

"It is the season of Festival, yet we are hopeless of seeing the Beloved, While the world is in pleasure and delight, our eyes are filled with tears"  AB08088

Heart yearns for the abode of peace, Where the builder of wall resides. But my longing is not for the city, Nay, it is for the dwellers of the city.   ABU2056

The renowned poet did not err when he said: A friend cannot be given for this world or the next Association with Joseph is better than counted dirhams  AB08798

that the birds of the meadow may, upon the cypress and jasmine, raise their voices in "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" and in Persian melody reveal divine mysteries  AB10398

There is no commotion in the city save from the curl of the Friend's tresses, There is no tumult in all horizons save from the arch of the Beloved's brow.  AB09419

"I am speaking to you now without using my lips. I am speaking to you through my love." This is the spiritual language, the language of the Kingdom of GOD.  ABU2173

"There is no commotion in the city except from the curl of the Beloved's tress; There is no tumult in the world except from the curve of the Friend's brow."  AB09284

Wherever You walk and set foot on the earth / I stretch out long and make myself mud and clay in the earth / My heart rejoices when Your tresses become tangled   AB01726

The poet says: "Yesterday, the Shaykh with his lamp was roaming about the city, saying: 'I am weary of demon and beast. My heart yearns for a true human being.'"  AB09512

The Turkish poet says: "Sometimes He makes me a prisoner of sorrowful exile, Sometimes a companion of grief, I know not what to do with this self-willed Beloved"   AB01733

Like the Egyptian herald bearing Joseph's garment, you may open the eyes of the Jacobs and perfume their nostrils with the fragrance of Joseph's spiritual garment.   AB03958

O Lord! Let friendship exist between Thee and me. I have no fear if the whole world is my foe. Let the whole earth abandon me, if Thou abide with me as my Protector.   ABU1285

As the poet says: Until thou art freed from descriptions of existence, O wayfarer, how canst thou taste the wine of immortality from the sweet ruby lips of the Beloved?  AB11018

Compose and recite odes and praises...The Arab poet has said: "Take it pure, and if you wish to mix it, then to deviate from the saliva of the Beloved would be tyranny."  AB06953

The Most Glorious Beauty - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones - says in the famous poem: "This is the way and custom, if you seek union with Baha - seek it!"   AB02127

If like Abraham one must enter the fire / Or like John have my blood flow free / Or like Joseph be cast in well and prison / Or through poverty become like Jesus son of Mary   AB03435

How excellent was that which was said, and how excellent was he who said it: The year hath passed, and would that I knew Whether anyone hath achieved that which pleaseth Thee.  BH08745

The purpose of poetry and composition is to express the inner mysteries and hidden secrets, and to reveal divine truths and meanings, and to unveil the sacred symbols and verses  AB06577

The marvelous ode, which in its eloquence and fluency was like hidden and treasured pearls and stars, was read with the utmost joy and delight and recited with abundant gladness.   AB05307

Indeed this verse of Hafiz is fitting to our condition, where he says: O morning breeze, kindly tell that graceful gazelle That you have made us wander in mountain and wilderness."  ABU3128

A beloved one said to a lover, "O youth! You have seen many cities in your travels - Which of those cities is the most pleasant?" He replied, "That city wherein dwells the beloved."   BH06218

Ka'b ibn Zuhayr composed one ode in praise of the Prophet and became renowned throughout the horizons, and this accomplished poet has composed numerous odes in praise of the Most Great Name  AB07890





These false hawks have learned / To imitate the cry of the white falcon / Though the sand-grouse may learn the hoopoe's call / Tell thou the hoopoe's secret and the message of the morning breeze  AB04087

"Die if you would be a devoted lover, for you have done all else yet still live," and cried out with his heart's tongue: "Kill me, kill me, O trustworthy ones, for in my death is life upon life."  AB02087

'To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the sun. A time to be born and a time to die; a time to weep and a time to laugh; a time to keep silence and a time to speak.'  ABU2693

I asked Generosity, Art thou free? It replied, No, Rather am I a servant of Yahya ibn Khalid. I asked, Through purchase? It said, No, through inheritance, Passed down to me from father to father.  AB07447

"The time has come for me to become naked, To leave the body and become entirely soul" ... "No heart with desire approaches that Beloved, None sleeps with such a Rose-Cheeked One while wearing a shirt"  AB01502

"Man passes through good and bad events. Be patient in the depths of hardship - this too shall pass."..."These bitter days, more bitter than poison, shall pass. Once again days sweet as sugar shall come."  AB06893

brilliant ode and luminous unique verse that, like flowing water, streamed and flowed from your talent in celebration of the Festival of Ridvan was like pure crystal water, sweeter than the Salsabil spring  AB05043

"The branch of the rose, wherever it may grow, is still a rose The vessel of wine, wherever it may ferment, is still wine  If the sun should rise from the West It is still the sun itself, not something else"  AB01217

"In one hand the wine-cup, in the other the Beloved's tress / In such a dance midst this arena is my heart's desire / Weary am I of these weak-natured folk / The Lion of God and Rustam the Hero is my heart's desire"   AB05885

This verse of Saadi appeared with utmost sweetness: There is no commotion in the city save the curls of the Beloved's tress [...] Divine passion throughout the horizons comes only from the arching brow of the Beloved.  AB03554

For their odes and praises are words without meaning, glass without a lamp, body without soul. But you should thank God that you speak reality not metaphor, and your ode celebrates the feast of the Self-Sufficient Lord  AB05836

"Indeed I have been alone with the Beloved, and between us / Was a secret more subtle than the breeze when it stirs" ... "The souls of wolves and dogs are separate indeed / But united are the souls of the lions of God"   BH02404

No heart yearns for any beloved save that One None can sleep peacefully with such a Rose-cheeked One in their garment Either go like women and choose color and fragrance Or enter like men and cast your ball in the field   AB02077

Verse is more pleasant than prose, and its influence is better and more abundant. Therefore, the mystics have expressed mysteries and meanings in verse, and composed odes and praises in glorification of divine attributes   AB04057

"Either make not friendship with elephant-keepers Or build a house worthy of an elephant Or like men enter the field and toss the ball Make your breast the target of every affliction and your heart the aim of every cruelty"   AB01196

Yesterday the Shaykh went around the city with a lamp Saying "I am weary of beasts and monsters, I long for a human" One hand holding the wine cup, one hand holding the beloved's tress I long to dance in the midst of this arena   AB04552

He saith unto thee in thy state of intoxication: O Abu'l-Hasan! O thou young in years! O thou of tender frame! O thou but lately weaned from milk! With face of a Hashimite, nape of a Turk, hair of a Daylamite, and beard of a Greek!  AB08915

Sing these verses with the most wonderful melodies and trust in God: These deceitful owls have learned / The cry of the white falcons / If the sand grouse learns the hoopoe's call / Where is the hoopoe's mystery and message of Sheba?   AB05936

Your verses like fresh pearls were read and were exceedingly sweet. The refrain "We are wine-worshippers" was fitting and appropriate, but the second refrain "Abdu'l-Baha, Abdu'l-Baha" has been corrected and is sent within this letter.  AB02271

"Where is this minstrel from, who uttered the Beloved's name, That I may sacrifice my soul and garment for the Beloved's message? The heart comes alive with hope of union with the Friend The soul dances to the melody of the Friend's words"   AB02255

From whence comes this musician who spoke the Friend's name, That I may sacrifice both soul and garment for the Friend's message? The heart comes alive with hope of union with the Beloved, The soul dances to the melody of the Friend's word   AB07450

So in this rose garden, like a nightingale with wondrous melodies, raise for this captive of deprivation a song and tune of servitude at the Threshold, that my heart and soul may be gladdened and my conscience and consciousness may be fulfilled.   AB02570

If like Abraham I must enter the fire / Or like John you make my blood flow free / If like Joseph you cast me in well and prison / Or like Jesus son of Mary make me poor / I will not turn away or leave You / My body and soul are for Your command   AB01176

We are firm in the Covenant We are the star of radiance  We are the voice of the horizons Lend an ear, bring attention See those drunk from Truth's chalice See the Cup of Alast in hand See the court of Saturn laid low Lend an ear, bring attention  AB03840

Where were Moses and Jesus when that Sun Showered down water on the fields sown with corn? Where were Adam and Eve what time God Almighty fitted the string to His bow? If I speak thereof your feet stumble, Yet if I speak not of it, woe be to you!  AB03894

"Lo! We offered the trust unto the heavens and the earth and the hills, but they shrank from bearing it and were afraid of it. And man assumed it." My heart is wearied by these weak-natured people - I long for the Lion of God and Rustam, son of Zal!   AB07551

If thy heart's desire be to save thy life, come not hither; But if thou wouldst sacrifice heart and soul, come and bring them too. This is the way - if union with Baha thou seekest; But if thou be not fit for this path, stay far and bring not trouble.  AB05429

He says: The poison of death is obligatory in the religion of love, and the burning of the inner being in love was my first covenant. Either abandon thy claim of love, or be content with what has transpired; thus has the matter been ordained in my laws and customs.  AB07500

Hafiz of Shiraz says: "Behold the crescent of Muharram and call for the cup of wine, For this is the month of peace and security and the year of harmony and tranquility. Hold precious the time of reunion, for that moment Equals the Night of Power and the day of victory."  AB08201

In his odes Rumi says, and in the Mathnavi he relates: "He says to thee in drunkenness, 'O Abu'l-Hasan! O thou tender of years! O thou of delicate frame! O thou who art but lately weaned from milk! O thou with Hashimite face, Turkish nape, Daylamite hair and Greek chin!'"  AB08915

If the arrow of tribulation comes, here are hearts as its target / If the pearl of bounty is bestowed, here are souls as its shell...What is the medicine of the yearning one? Poison from the hand of the beloved / What is the balm of lovers? Wounds from the arm of the Friend  AB01811

What can I say when not a single vein of mine is sober? How can I describe that Beloved Who hath no peer? In this moment, without lips, I tell to thee Ancient mysteries anew, now hear from me Open now thy earless ear at this time For the mystery of "God doth what He will divine"   BH00476

Place thy foot upon the crown of earthly kingship, then enter beneath poverty's shade, So thou mayest now behold the eternal kingdom from every direction. So thou mayest see Moses' Mount Sinai circling here in devotion, So thou mayest see Christ's Spirit restless from love for Him.   AB03169

The poet Ibn al-Farid says: Take it pure, and if you wish to mix it, then to turn from the beloved's pure water would be tyranny.  AB09849

"I am deaf when called by my name, yet truly, when addressed as 'Abdu'l-Baha, I hear." This verse is from previous poets and its second line is: "When addressed as 'O His servant,' I hear." But I became so enamored with the theme of this verse that I changed "O His servant" to "'Abdu'l-Baha."  AB01480

Multiple poetic quotations are included: "There is no tumult in the city save the curls of the Beloved's hair / There is no commotion in the horizons save the curve of the Friend's eyebrow" and "These petty ones intend / Out of envy to cover up thy sun" and "The owls make attacks upon the falcon..."   AB02058

This is the Angel's call, this is fervor and excitement/This is knowledge and intelligence - Awake, awake!/This is the soul's fire, this is the mine's jewel/This is the shining moon - Awake, awake!/If you seek a ray come, if you tread the path come/If you desire from any direction come - Awake, awake!  AB02766

"I had given up hope in the days of life, but the pure intention of the holy ones of the age accomplished something." Hafiz says "No one can capture the Phoenix - put away your snare" ... Jalalu'd-Din Rumi says: "One hand holding the wine cup and one hand in the beloved's tress, I long to dance in the midst of this field."   AB02995

Thou hast cheered the heart of Fuzulî and freed the soul of Rûhi-yi Bagdadî. Thou hast rendered Nef'i-yi Erzurumî useless and proven the weakness and indigence of the celebrated Niyazî. The breeze of Nesimî is subdued and thou hast caused the rose-garden of Gülsenî to wither. And thou hast made Sezaî worthy of bewilderment.   AB11950

The owls tyrannize over the royal falcon, Plucking its wings though it is innocent, Saying "Why do you remember that realm, Or the palace-forearm of that King?" Its crime is only that it is a falcon, Just as Joseph's crime was naught but beauty, The peacock's enemy became its own feather, Ah, how many kings has their glory slain!   BH02605

That is the river, and this is the bank thereof, of which the poet Hafiz has thus written: 'O zephyr, shouldst thou pass by the banks of the Araxes, implant a kiss on the earth of that valley and make fragrant thy breath. Hail, a thousand times hail, to thee, O abode of Salma! How dear is the voice of thy camel-drivers, how sweet the jingling of thy bells!'  BBU0011

"No thorn-tip exists that is not red with martyrs' blood; What a plague was that hunter that passed through this desert!" And the Turkish poet says: "In this turquoise-colored dome there is no shield; All atoms are targets for the arrow of fate." And the Arab poet says: "Live alone, for love's comfort is suffering; Its beginning is illness and its end is death."  AB02238

One, like a rose, has rent their garment, while another, like a nightingale, has sent their lament to the heavens. One, like the narcissus with languid eyes, has opened eyes of wonder, while another, like a meadow violet, has fallen intoxicated in the wilderness and plain. One, like the cypress, has raised their stature tall, while another, like the ringdove, has caused commotion in the rose garden.   AB06249

When the taper of Tiraz lit up his countenance in the gathering of mystery, with a face full of glad-tidings and visage of joy, in the utmost grace and beauty did he meet with me, and with perfect sweetness did he begin to speak. He wept and laughed, spoke and listened, until the meeting drew to a close. At times he bloomed like a flower, and at times like a wine-vessel he was full of tumult and commotion.  AB07754

'Attar traversed love's seven cities, While we remain in the bend of a single lane... Were people not veiled and dense, And were throats not constricted and weak, In thy praise I would render justice to meaning, And would open lips with speech other than this... Whence comes this musician who spoke the Friend's name? That I might sacrifice my soul and garment for the Friend's message. The heart comes alive with hope for the beloved's faithfulness, The soul dances to the melody of the Friend's words.   BH01734

Countless poets, orators, and rhetoricians have come and gone from this world of dust. They have expended their breaths in pursuit of passion and desire, and have allowed their lives to pass fruitlessly. Some have eulogized gardens, meadows, trees, and fruits, and others have portrayed gardens, clouds, oceans, and lands. Some have loosed their tongues to depict the beauty of idol-like countenances, and others the sweetness of moon-like visages. Some have described the spear and arrow of Sam and Nariman, and others have extolled the neck and shoulders of Rustam Dastan.  AB04104

A moon [departed] from this city toward another city, And by its setting and rising two cities were turned upside down. And Joshua caused the sun to return for part of a day, but when Thou didst journey forth, a sun appeared.  Thou art the interpreter of all that is in our hearts, The helper of all whose feet are stuck in the clay.  Today if the cloud would show grace, Tomorrow when the thirsty one is dead, say not "Arise!"  Thou laughest while fate biteth its lip, Death weepeth at thy laughter.  Wherever thou seest blood upon the earth, Know of a certainty it is from our eyes.   BH01736

From the celestial Garden, with the burning Lote-Tree, that fresh Youth hath come, Yea, yea! This is divine rapture, this is a robe of the Almighty, this is a vesture of the Lord! With the seas of the living waters, with the Kawthar of the spirit, that Lord of mankind hath come, Yea, yea! This is heavenly sweetness, this is the grace of the All-Merciful, this is embroidery most sweet! From the Egypt of blindness, that Joseph of Shiraz, with coquetry and renown hath come, Yea, yea! These are countenances eternal, this is a dawning-place luminous, this is innovation most ancient! That Slayer of lovers, that Quickener of beloved ones, with sword and arrows hath come, Yea, yea! These are blades of passion, this is a lance of glances, these are darts of eyelashes!  BH01007

Were I to describe this Manifestation's praise, A hundred thousand trumpet blasts could not convey; For in each instant from It a hundred resurrections spring, And in each, the spreading of a Greater Rising doth display. Were I to attempt describing just one Rising fair, A hundred resurrections would pass, yet still unfinished there.  BH00931