good intentions and sound thoughts attract confirmations.  ABU2560

Devotion to and love for one's vocation accomplishes miracles.  ABU3634

"Today is and has been the day of goodly words, goodly deeds, and good thoughts."   BH02596

For as thoughts widen and become illumined, they acquire the power of flight and transport man to the kingdom of God.  AB06878

This resolution or intention is the Magnet for attracting Divine Confirmations and inviting the Breaths of the Holy Spirit   AB03301

This blessed intention will surely have a tremendous effect. A good intention is like a lighted candle - its rays spread in all directions   AB04709

These waves from our minds go forth and create movement and thought in other minds. From one strong thought of love what great results may be produced!   ABU2377

In the world of humanity "good intentions" is the greatest means of personal development. If a person has "good intention" he will succeed in all of his undertakings.  ABU3457

No matter how scientific a man may be, yet at times 'imagination' gains a power over his mind. It grips you with its imperial energy and overwhelms you with invisible force.  ABU2533

These thoughts, vital and dynamic, will affect the minds of all with whom you come into contact, and like doves of peace, will grow and increase till they spread over all the land.   ABU3219

I swear by the Ancient Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, that pure intention and righteous deeds influence stones and rocks, how much more the hearts and souls!  AB12488

Pure intentions have different influence and effects in the world...Thus it was proven that your intentions regarding the grape vine or the citron or other trees are as though they are seen now.  BH00938

Good intention is necessary for good deeds. Unless there is good intention, which is like a firm and steadfast root and foundation, the tree of deeds will not yield fruits, blessings and results, and will not bestow good fruits. The greatest foundation for achieving good results from the deeds of the people of the world is good intention.  ABU1164


Question: What is the source of evil thoughts that disturb those who do not wish to entertain them?  Answer: They come from other minds; they are reflected. One should not become a mirror for them--to reflect them; neither should one try to control them, for this is impossible; it only aggravates the difficulty, causing more to appear.  One should constantly turn the mirror of his heart squarely toward God so that the Light of the Sun of Truth may be reflected there.  ABU2946

The more one observes, the greater becomes one's expansion of thought, for the soul is affected, and from the soul's influence, thought expands. And the more thought expands, the greater becomes one's inclination toward things of beauty and fine colors and pure air and delicate foods.   ABU1310

A man's intention or will is better than his act...when a man has a good intention, that is, cherishes the desire in his heart for a righteous act, it is impossible that such an intention by anything but pure. whereas, in acting, it is possible that selfish reasons may have prompted it.   ABU1112

Physical sight is not of great importance, therefore blindness should not be considered a defect. However, to be without insight is verily a great defect, because man is then incapable of understanding the mercy of God. Lack of insight deprives man of faith and of a consciousness of God.   ABU0307

Consider that man's contemplative powers produce two kinds of conceptions. One kind consists in sound and true conceptions, which, when combined with resolution, become outwardly realized, such as proper arrangements, wise opinions, scientific discoveries, and technological inventions. The other consists in false ideas and baseless imaginations, which yield no fruit and have no reality. They surge like the waves of the sea of delusion and fade away like idle dreams.  AB00482

As to the difference between inspiration and imagination: inspiration is in conformity with the Divine Texts, but imaginations do not conform therewith. A real, spiritual connection between the True One and the servant is a luminous bounty which causeth an ecstatic (or divine) flame, passion and attraction. When this connection is secured (or realized) such an ecstasy and happiness become manifest in the heart that man doth fly away (with joy) and uttereth melody and song. Just as the soul bringeth the body in motion, so that spiritual bounty and real connection likewise moveth (or cheereth) the human soul.   AB01410

For instance, one may learn a lesson or poem by heart, and he repeats and repeats it so often that the thoughts take possession of him, and he will repeat it unconsciously even in his sleep. This is magnetism belonging to the human spirit. Or he may walk many times upon a certain road, and he takes his walk so often he is able to take it unconsciously or automatically. This power is his own magnetism. A mother rocks and rocks her babe to sleep in a cradle, but the thought of the child's sleep may so take possession of her mind that sometimes she is able to put him to sleep without the aid of the cradle. This effect is produced by the mother's magnetism.  ABU1727
