The Covenant of God is like the sun--the brilliance and light of the Covenant radiates and shines forth from the faces of those who are firm in it. The radiance of this Sun (the Covenant) has been felt from here to America. They wish to extinguish this light, but they do not know that the light of God's Covenant is kindled and comes from the presence of God.   ABU1730

In this mighty cycle, there is a Divine trust and agreement, and a heavenly Covenant and Testament. It is the cup of am "I not your Lord" that is being proffered by the hand of the Abha Beauty and quaffed in turn at the celestial feast. Whoso hath been intoxicated by that wine hath intoned, in the accents of the Abha Kingdom, the call of "Praise be unto Thee, O my Lord, the Most Glorious", and whoso hath been deprived thereof hath sought every day a new excuse and hath been caught at every moment in a new snare.  AB00005

this Covenant, the like of which the eye of creation has not seen since the beginning of creation  AB04566

The essence of the Torah is the Ancient Covenant, and that Ancient Covenant was a harbinger of this new Covenant, which is the Covenant of the manifestation of the Lord with all His attributes and perfection. It is a Covenant taken from all the Prophets, whereby the face of the earth shall be transformed into the supreme Paradise and the divine signs shall become manifest throughout the world. The teachings of the Ancient Beauty constitute that Covenant, all of which must needs be realized in its own time, even though it may take successive centuries; yet ultimately it must be fulfilled and breathe a new spirit into the dead bodies of mankind.  ABU2545

The fame of the Cause of God has encompassed all horizons and the anthem of God's Covenant has reached the ears of all dwellers on earth.   AB02768

The East is perfumed with the fragrances of the Covenant, the West is musk-scented, and the outpourings of the Ancient Beauty from the unseen Kingdom of the Most Glorious - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones - are continuous, successive, frequent and unceasing.  AB02493

This is the Call of the Covenant. This is the Dispensation of the Well-Beloved of all mankind. This is the gift that the Day-Star of the world hath graciously given. This is the revelation of His incorruptible grace, the manifestation of His perpetual assistance, the evidence of the power that is born of God and the potency of the bestowals proffered by the All-Merciful.  AB00743

Bountiful in His bestowals and gracious with every blessing and favor, He hath gathered us beneath the shade of the Tree of the Covenant and under the banner of the Testament, all acknowledging His oneness, His singleness, His grandeur, His might and His power which hath spread and shone forth throughout all regions, until even His enemies bore witness to His majesty, the exaltation of His Word, the penetrating influence of His writings, the power of His teachings and the swiftness of their diffusion. Even in His own day, His mention spread far and wide throughout all regions and encompassed the entire earth. Never in the days of any previous Manifestation had there been such a penetrating influence and overwhelming power.   AB00123

in all times remind them of the greatness of the Covenant and Testament  AB09602

Soon shall the lights of the Covenant illumine the horizons, and this is an evident truth and an unfailing promise.  AB10115

You came into existence in the Age of Revelation and the Century of the Manifestation on Sinai, and were gathered beneath the banner of the Covenant  AB07209

From the beginning of creation until now, such a wondrous Cause, such an explicit Covenant, and such an eloquent Testament by the pen of the Most High has not occurred  AB04830

In no age or dispensation has such a Covenant and Testament been established, such a light of the Covenant shone forth, such a dawn appeared, such a proof become manifest.  AB02580

The Sun of the Covenant hath shed its splendor upon the East and the West, illumining both Orient and Occident. The blessed Star of the Covenant hath cast its rays upon all horizons, lighting up Africa and America  AB03686

This Covenant is the Covenant of Baha'u'llah. Its importance is not yet fully understood as it should be, but in the future it will attain such importance that if a king should waver even slightly, he will immediately fall.   AB01055

From the beginning of creation until now, no such covenant has been established by the Supreme Pen, conjoined with the Most Holy Book whose laws mentioned therein abrogate all mention and ordinance in previous scriptures and tablets.  AB01318

This Covenant is the Covenant of His Holiness Baha'u'llah. Now its importance is not known befittingly, but in the future it shall attain to such a degree of importance that if a king violates to the extent of one atom, he shall be cut off immediately.  AB08473

in every street and plain that you pass through, cry out: "This Covenant is the Covenant of Alast, and this Testament is the Ancient Testament! The armies of the Kingdom of God assist this Covenant, and the hosts of the Concourse on High protect this foundation. It is the continuous and enduring ray of the Sun of Truth and the brilliant lamp of the gathering of the Divine Unity. It is the strong rope and the manifest light. It is the firm handle and the fruit of the blessed tree. It is the Preserved Tablet and the Written Book and the Outstretched Parchment. It is the Covenant - the Covenant! It is the Testament - the Testament! It is mentioned in all the scriptures and books, and recorded in all the scrolls of the ancients and tablets of the latter ones. It is the ruler of the most great crisis and the balance of the Day of Reckoning. It is the Ark of Salvation and the refuge on the Day of Return. It is the holy fragrances of the Lord God and the life-giving breezes from the gardens of the Creator. It is the mighty fortress and the strong shelter. It is the firm pillar and the essence of all books and scriptures of the Old and New Testament. Blessed is he who holds fast to it, clings to it, stands firm in it, whose heart is strengthened by its verses, and who is gathered beneath its banners." AB00988

Until now, in no previous Dispensation was there a Covenant and Testament of such magnitude and clarity. If some wavering occurred, it was not surprising or strange. But now in this Most Great Cycle, praise be to God, the lamp is brightly lit and the Beauty of the Covenant appears with utmost grace and loveliness.   AB02039

The standard of the Covenant hath been raised at the center of the world, and its banner, through the breezes of confirmation from the Kingdom, is full of waves and movement. The peoples of all regions are entering beneath its shade, and the hosts of the Concourse on High are following one another in succession to its aid.  AB09709

No covenant in previous cycles has preceded this Covenant, whereby even the exalted angels who were not commanded to bow before Adam on the day of the world's beginning have entered beneath its shade. Soon you will see the signs of this Covenant brilliant in souls and horizons, and the banners of this Covenant raised upon the highest peaks of the seven layers.  AB01280

In this Most Great Cycle, He established the foundation of the Cause like Alexander's wall of iron and steel, and laid the basis of the religion of God upon an impregnable foundation, so that the Gog of doubts and Magog of allusions might not, in any way, find a breach or penetrate therein, and the mighty fortress of the Cause might remain protected and preserved.  AB02695

The primary purpose and intimate desire of the Blessed Beauty--may my spirit, my being, and my essence be sacrificed for His holy threshold--in establishing this divine Covenant, which has had no parallel in any age or dispensation, was that no discord should occur in the Blessed Cause, but rather that all should unite under the shade of the Word of Unity and sever the root of differences among nations.  AB00072

This Covenant is firmly established and this Testament is mighty. In no age or dispensation of the Holy Manifestations has such a Covenant existed before or had any parallel. This is a Covenant that the Sun of the Divine Reality has, in Its essence, taken from holy realities, jewels of existence and atoms of all created things, and its decree, like the divine spirit, penetrates and flows through the reality of creation.  AB02595

The foundation of the Covenant is firm and mighty, and the light of the Testament is clear and evident. The pride and heedlessness of the vainglorious shall vanish and pass away like the darkness of night. This Charter is the effect of the Pen of the Lord of Resurrection, and this Preserved Tablet is the result of the Supreme Pen of the King of Manifestation. In the Qur'an He saith: "We have sent down the Reminder, and We verily are its Guardian." It is preserved and protected, established and clearly set forth.   AB00383

From the very beginning of the Cause, the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name established the foundation of the Covenant and Testament firm, steadfast and immovable like sheets of iron, and made this lofty edifice of the Covenant the Pavilion of the All-Merciful. Any soul who shows the least fairness will observe that from the beginning of human existence until this divine Cycle, no such Covenant and Testament was ever established at the apex of the Supreme Concourse and the center of the Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB01674

Now in this Most Great Dispensation, by explicit text and clear and manifest explanation, without interpretation or allegorical meaning, it has been clearly stated in the Most Holy Book, which abrogates all books and whose laws abrogate the laws of all tablets that do not conform to it, and in the Book of the Divine Covenant and Testament, by the Supreme Pen, a covenant has been taken from all in existence, and it has been named the Book of the Covenant. And in all tablets and prayers, adherence to the divine Covenant and Testament has been counted as the greatest means of divine bounty, so that all might comprehend the greatness of the divine Covenant and Testament.  AB02770





As to the rainbow, this is the Bow of the Divine Covenant and the Testament of the All-Merciful. From this Bow stream forth the lights of the Kingdom and the celestial rays.  AB09888

The world of Command is the realm of the Kingdom, and the Covenant is the unique pearl of that mighty sea, and the Star of the Covenant is the dawning star from that manifest horizon.  AB07811

Praise be to God that the fragrances of the Covenant have perfumed the horizons and the lights of the Testament of the Ancient Beauty have brought all peoples into longing and ecstasy.   AB05712

Since in truth it was by indication and not explicitly stated, like "Whomsoever I am his Master..." etc. However in this Most Great Dispensation, God's Covenant and Testament has been taken  AB01768


Today the pavilion of the Covenant has been raised at the pole of the world and has reached to the zenith of heaven, and has taken all existence under its shadow and has encompassed it from all directions.   AB06637

The lights of the Covenant have dawned, brilliant as daybreak, intense in radiance. Glorified be the One Who makes and keeps the Covenant, Who confirms and strengthens it in all the Books, Psalms, Tablets and Pages.  AB04558

It is the standard of the Covenant that is unfurled across the horizons. It is the ocean of the testament and pledge whose waves are endless and whose surge is at the utmost intensity and overflow, shaking foundations.  AB00452

"the Fragrances of the Garden of the Covenant have perfumed all regions, the Standard of the Testament is waving upon the castles of glory, and there is no refuge for those who flee from this strongly fortified Fortress!"  AB10766

The Sun of the Covenant hath shed its radiance from the Horizon of the Supreme Pen upon all regions. It illumined the East and conquered the West. It raised its pavilion at the apex of the horizons and accomplished its work with both friend and stranger.  AB01931

This remedy is the medicine of the Covenant and Testament, and the distinguishing elixir of the Merciful's Covenant, which provides instantaneous healing to the sick body of contingent being and is the great prepared balm for the severe wound of the world.  AB04357

The Covenant of God in this Day of Manifestation is a Lifeboat, an Ark of Salvation. All true followers of the Blessed Perfection are sheltered and protected in this Ark. Whoever leaves it, trusting in his own will and strength, will drown and be destroyed.  ABU0433

and fulfill Your Covenant and Testament which You took, by Your Most Exalted Pen, from the concourse of creation, and no covenant or testament that preceded it in the manifestation of the Manifestations of Your power was as firm and strong as a structure of iron plates  AB00846

By the "Chrysolite Tablet" is meant the Book of Baha'u'llah's Covenant which is the Preserved Tablet. It was hidden and preserved, now it is made manifest and resplendent. The Chrysolite Tablet is recorded and enshrined in the inmost recesses of the Book of the Covenant.   AB04480

Thou didst take the Covenant through the influence of Thy Most Exalted Pen and through a power that penetrates the realities of all things in the world of immortality, and Thou didst mention in clearest utterance and most evident exposition, in all Thy Tablets and Scriptures   AB02036

Say: O Sheikh, this Covenant is the light of the horizons and this Testament of the Lord of Lords is not a plaything of children. Say: Soon you shall find yourselves in manifest loss, and your loss shall become evident and clear, and ere long total loss shall utterly destroy the foundation.   AB00154


Then He planted the tree of companionship and grew the Lote-Tree of Paradise, gathered the loved ones together and took from them a firm covenant and mighty pledge. He revealed what was hidden and inscribed in the unfurled scroll, and made clear what was cryptically referenced in the Preserved Tablet that abrogates all previous scriptures and tablets when they do not conform to its commandments and laws.   AB01457


Today the bounty of God is the Covenant  AB09938


"Its covenant is firm and its testament strong"  AB05313

or bring to mind the firm binding of the Covenant?   BH07131


its wine is the crimson Wine of the Supreme Covenant  AB06500


the foundation of the Covenant is stronger than steel  AB07440

the appearance of Thy Cause on the Day of the Covenant  BH10058

gathered under the raised banner of the Covenant of God  AB04485

Let them grow and develop in the Garden of Thy Covenant  AB10701


Thou too must engage in service to the Ark of the Covenant  AB09698

who have held fast to the cord of My Covenant and Testament  BH04868


under which divine Tree the Covenant and Testament was made  AB11343



"The banner of the Covenant has risen above the seven spheres"  AB06449


For every chronic disease bestow the potent remedy of the Covenant  AB10016




The horizon of all horizons is illumined with the light of the Covenant  AB12430

quicken the hearts of the faithful through the mysteries of the Covenant  AB05240

The light of the Covenant hath shone forth at the center of the horizons  AB07795

The complete remedy lies in steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament.  AB09259

traverse the desert of separation until you drink the cup of the Covenant   AB03812

"for this greatest of Causes is supported by the hosts of the Abha Kingdom"  AB02006

Praise be to God that thou art intoxicated from the chalice of the Covenant   AB06128

in these days when the horizons are illumined with the light of the Covenant   AB04228

You took the cup of salvation from the hand of the Cup-bearer of the Covenant   AB05545

the power of the victory of the Kingdom of the King of Kings becomes manifest   AB07382

The call is the call of the Covenant, and the melody is the melody of harmony.  AB08975

This is the day of turning unto God and the day of the Covenant and Testament.   BH10001

The melody is the melody of the Covenant which has set those horizons in motion.  AB11920

If all the world should combine to overthrow the Covenant, it could not succeed.   ABU2880

Through the bounties of the clouds of the Covenant, become verdant and flourishing  AB09549

The morn of divine splendor hath breathed forth through the lights of the Covenant  AB12688

Become verses of divine unity, for the call is the call of the Day of the Covenant.  AB08097

Be confident and assured that the power of the Covenant is thy supporter and helper  AB12687

We are in the gathering of "Am I not?" and intoxicated from the cup of the Covenant  AB09879

Hold fast to the cord of God - verily it is His Most Great, Most Mighty Remembrance.  BH03276

We must first be faithful to God, to His ordinances and Covenant and to His servants  ABU3012

The lamp of the Covenant is like the morning star - it shall never be extinguished.   AB07185

This (Covenant) is the Ark of Noah, its moving power is the fire of the love of God.   ABU3589

If thou seekest a shining star, appear from the horizon of the Covenant and Testament.  AB06365

Behold, it is the Covenant! Behold, it is the remedy! Behold, it is the dawning light!  AB10268

thou hast trilled in the groves of the Covenant with the sweetest rhythms and measures  AB09648

"Verily, it is the power which penetrates into the hearts of the people of the world!"   AB06529

Were it not for Him, the command of God would not have been revealed among His servants   BH09492

Today the crown of humanity is adorned with the world-illumining diadem of the Covenant.  AB10135

Praise be to God that thou wert confirmed in this service and assisted in this distinction  AB12710

if it is built in the days of the Covenant, it will be more joyful and more heart-rejoicing  AB11088

Through Whose Most Self-Subsisting Name all who are in the heavens and on earth were subdued  BH07623

He shall soon gather them together in the pavilion of grandeur - a promise from His presence  BH06320

Glory be upon the people of Glory who have fulfilled God's Covenant, the Lord of all worlds.  BH02159

After the Ascension thou didst hold fast with utmost strength to the Covenant and Testament   AB02515

Behold the power of the Covenant and witness the bounty of the Best-Beloved of the horizons.  AB09704

the flood of the grandeur of the Covenant hath descended from the mountains of the Testament  AB08960

Glorified art Thou, O Thou Who hast fulfilled Thy Covenant and Thy Testament and Thy Promise   BH09878

This is a group steadfast in Thy Covenant, a company growing in the gardens of Thy Testament   AB01278

"This is among the miracles of the heavenly teachings and the spiritual power of Baha'u'llah"  AB02645

"This Covenant is the Covenant of God. This Testament is the Testament of the Lord of Hosts."  AB00618

We have nothing against anyone - we want to preserve the mighty fortress of the Cause of God.  ABU2452

What anxiety remaineth then, what anguish, when thou art beneath the shelter of the Covenant?  AB10027

There hath come before the Wronged One a letter from those who have not broken God's Covenant.  BH03767

O Herald of the Covenant! Proclaim my servitude to the Sacred Threshold throughout all regions  AB11748

the power of the Covenant of the Most Great Name has caused commotion throughout all horizons   AB06096

whose luminous pearl is the unique gem of the Covenant, from which the horizons are illumined   AB06860



This is the power of the Covenant, which is among the great gifts of the Lord of the Dayspring.  AB09306



This is naught but the great power of God's Covenant and the complete might of the Abha Kingdom  AB01647

The stability of the world and the rise of nations depend on the bounty of the Most Great Name.  AB02089


Praise be to God that thou hast attained unto the Divine Word which is this most sublime Tablet   BH10564

What is better than the Covenant of God? It is light, not attachment. It is both sugar and candy  AB05143

Behold the power of the Covenant and witness the bounties of the Best-Beloved of all the worlds.  AB09704

These friends are intoxicated with the wine of Thy Covenant and hold the goblet in their hands.   AB02549

Thy Covenant and Testament, which is the most firm handle extended from Thy Most Glorious Kingdom  AB05013

Verily the Song of the Covenant of most eloquent phrase and of most wonderful melody was received  AB11210

Verily the East and the West, the trees and the stones, are stirred by the breezes of the Covenant  AB12348

O ye two desert wanderers! Praise be to God that ye are intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant   AB07390

All regions have been perfumed by the diffusion and spread of the sweet fragrance of the Covenant   AB01766

Until you do attain to this station, you have not fulfilled the Covenant and the Testament of God.  AB09107

The glory from Us be upon thee and upon those who broke not the Covenant on the Day of Separation.   BH06609

Ye are of Us - sufficient unto you is this word, and My Name, the All-Encompassing over the worlds.  BH04539

O thou bird of knowledge, lift up voice and chant thy melodies in the garden of the divine Covenant  AB03438

"Then the sun of the covenant will shine flooding the Orient and the Occident with glorious light!"  AB04820

The wine cup of the Covenant is overflowing and the chalice of bounty gives life to the illumined.   AB01961

Behold how the power of Baha'u'llah has connected the hearts and has joined the East and the West.   ABU2437

Blessed art thou for having won to this Cause whereby souls have been disturbed and hearts consumed.  BH09487

My loved ones and My chosen ones who have held fast to My Covenant and have not broken the Testament   BH02983

This is the Covenant which God hath taken beneath the Tree of Anisa in all the Holy Books and Tablets  AB03686

Beneath the shade of the Tree of the Covenant and Testament thou shalt attain unto the supreme bounty  AB09702

Upon them rest the blessings of God, and the hosts of the Kingdom of the Supreme Horizon assist them.  AB07812

This is the power of the Covenant, which is among the great bounties of the Lord of the Dawning-Place.  AB09306

forget not God's covenant within your souls, neither be heedless of it, nor be of them that turn aside   BH02389

Be thou vocal in My Name, hold fast unto My cord, soar in My atmosphere, and cling to My luminous robe.  BH03376

Blessed art thou for having won his good-pleasure and fulfilled God's Covenant, the Lord of all worlds   BH03077

Thy renowned services are known, witnessed and mentioned in the presence of the Center of the Covenant.  AB09616

Thou art he who broke not God's Covenant and His Testament, and denied not God's proof and His evidence   BH02191

Convey greetings from the Wronged One to all the kindred and give them the glad-tidings of God's favor.   BH04116

Therefore, O friends, strive with perfect steadfastness in the Covenant to diffuse the divine fragrances  AB04756

Make him a sign of Thy most glorious Kingdom, that he may confirm the weak in Thy Covenant and Testament  AB01655

turn his face to the light of the Covenant, captivate hearts with the sweet fragrances of the love of God  AB09416

intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant...the cup of the Covenant...by the power of the divine Covenant  AB09982

Under the shadow of the Standard of the Covenant, which is waving over all regions, sacrifice your lives.  AB08719

The ocean of the Covenant is in tumult, and the bestowal of the Lord of Hosts extends from shore to shore.  AB08114

The Sun of the Covenant is at the height of its radiance, and today its rays are the stars of the horizons  AB02112

it was through the aid and protection of the Blessed Beauty that eyes were opened and ears became hearing   ABU2716

this Revelation through which the horizons have been illumined and the decree of the Covenant hath appeared  BH07783

The vivifying breezes wafting from the rose garden of the Covenant have perfumed the horizons of the world   AB03160

Today through the power of the Covenant the horizons are in motion and the lights shine upon East and West   AB02057

I hope to receive regular communications from you, for it is the means of strengthening the spiritual bond.  AB02715

By the life of God! What he witnesses and beholds cannot be equaled by a single word from the words of God.   BH09349

Though they be poor, yet they are wise; though they be weak, yet they are strong, for Thou art their Support  AB08620

The branch that hath branched from the Most Great Ocean cannot be prevented from outpouring by absurdities.   AB06157

whereby the limbs of all names have trembled except such as God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment, has willed   BH02561

And the Glory be upon you and upon all who hold fast to God's Covenant and His supreme and mighty Testament.   AB05960

The Word of God is triumphant and the Kingdom of God all-encompassing. Eventually it will encompass all creation  AB02592

God's Covenant and Testament has been taken, and by the pen of the Most High the Book of the Covenant was issued  AB01768

The bounty of the Covenant brought the horizons to life and filled the people of radiance with joy and gladness.   AB04730

make your countenance radiant through the shining lights of the Covenant...roar in the atmosphere of the Covenant  AB05086


Thus thou mayest be thrilled with the ecstasy of the wine of the Covenant and give a drink thereof unto the world.  AB08285


Make thy nest in the rose garden of divine favors, that thou mayest build thy dwelling in the tree of the Covenant  AB10957

O my God! This is a Branch that hath branched out from the Tree of Thy Singleness and the Lote-Tree of Thy Oneness.  BH09086

My loved ones and chosen ones who have not broken My Covenant and have acted according to what they were commanded   BH05226

They attained that which none had previously attained; thereto testifieth My Pen of Glory in this wondrous Tablet.   BH04724

steadfastness upon His Covenant. Therefore, gird up the loins of endeavor and seek to excel in the field of bounty.  AB05870

These waves arrive successively and pass away, but the ocean of God's Cause remaineth and will endure without end.   AB03964

I AM THE COVENANT, appointed by Baha'u'llah. And no one can refute His Word. This is the Testament of Baha'u'llah.   ABU3266

Glory be unto him who hath fulfilled God's Covenant and Testament and cast behind him every polytheist far removed.   BH08790




Tell them that today it is the power of the Covenant that moves souls to attraction and motion, not vain imaginings.   AB01634

This is the Day of the Covenant and the time of the dawning of this glorious century, this blessed age and new cycle.  AB12201

The temple of existence hath been stirred by the breeze that quickeneth dead bones and refresheth spirits and hearts.  AB09072

Be not grieved by the weakness of souls, nor disheartened by the frailty of the covenant of the people of the cradle.  AB04691

By God! The mentions of earth shall be effaced, but their mentions shall not be effaced from the tablets of the world   BH03161

Ere long thou shalt behold the banners of the Covenant and Testament raised high upon the battlements of the horizons.  AB07659

This is of the enduring favor We have ordained for thee. Preserve it through this Name that holds sway over the worlds.  BH06071

We bear witness that he is among those who fulfilled the Covenant of the All-Merciful and was among those who remember.  BH04329

winds of tests have surrounded the Tree of the Covenant. The slightest discord among the friends is like deadly poison.  AB04155

By the power of the Covenant, shatter the ranks of discord. The hosts of divine confirmation arrive like mighty armies.  AB08883

Therefore, whosoever heralds the Covenant of God, unquestionably he is confirmed. This has been tried a thousand times.  AB09721

"Blessed art thou for having been faithful to God's Covenant and His Testament, and for being among those who are firm."  BH03786

the presence of faces illumined by the light of the Covenant and gladdened by the gifts of the Luminary of the horizons   AB07115

You were attracted by the Covenant of the Luminary of the horizons and sacrificed your soul in the path of the Covenant   AB02636

Bring them together again, O Lord, by the Power of Thy Covenant, and gather their dispersion by the Might of Thy Promise  AB02317

In any case, praise be to God that whatever flows from the Pen of the Covenant is proven and manifested in a short time   AB00496

Were the whole world to act together in order to prevent these stars from giving light - verily they will fail to do so.  ABU0997

These are servants who have held fast to the cord of the Covenant, have abandoned discord, were not pleased with division  AB02643


prior to its establishment, He hath referred all matters to the Centre of the Covenant and hath commanded all to obey Him.  ABU2976

The "true and radiant morn is the dawn of the Covenant, and the first light of the Testament of the Day-Star of the world"   AB07443

Suffer us to be signs of guidance, standards of Thy Manifest Religion throughout the world, servants of Thy Great Covenant   AB04598

Know thou with perfect certainty that the servants of the Most Glorious Beauty are in every case successful and victorious.  AB05619

The East and West have already glittered through the light which is shining forth from the Horizon of the mercy of thy Lord  AB10185

"Only through steadfastness can resistance be shown. The least wavering will result in the domination of the arrogant ones."  AB02314


That firm Handle and sure Cord is the Divine Covenant and Testament of the All-Merciful. Hold fast to it with heart and soul  AB10355

In the feast of the Covenant such a covenant was taken that no opportunity remained for disagreement by the people of discord  AB04830

When the light of the Covenant cast its rays upon the pavilion of the people of illumination, the lightning of harmony arose   AB07262

Say: The ocean of the Covenant has surged across all horizons, and the light of radiance has spread through the seven layers.   AB11879

This covenant is unique and unprecedented in all existence; no covenant like it has ever appeared in the seen or unseen realms  AB12401

Soon shall all who dwell on earth glory in your names. Thus hath the matter been decreed by the Pen that ruleth over all pens.   BH03746

As for what thou didst mention regarding consultation and movement, whatsoever the Most Great Branch hath approved is approved.  BH02393

The hosts of the Supreme Concourse are your supporters, the Ancient Beauty is your protector, the Lord of Might is your helper   AB01656

that your loved ones are each like a candle kindled in the gathering of the Covenant and like moths have sacrificed their lives  AB11331

Consider that today in all parts of the world the firm ones in the Covenant are shining like unto the candles in every assembly.  AB01964

The divine Jerusalem has come down from heaven. The bride of Zion has appeared. The voice of the Kingdom of God has been raised.  ABU0676

This Covenant, which is sweeter than nectar, has become to certain souls more bitter than poison and more unpalatable than venom  AB10412

It is the call of the Kingdom ringing loud, and the sovereignty of the Realm of Might encompassing both the needy and the noble.   AB03923

It is the light of the Covenant that has shone upon the horizons, the flame of splendor that has gleamed across the seven layers.  AB02718

Hath the star of faithfulness disappeared from its horizon, or hath its nightingale taken flight unto God, the Lord of existence?   BH09090

"Believe not everyone who attributeth himself to Us. They who follow their desires - God is quit of them and We are quit of them."  BH02562

Through the power of the Covenant, break asunder the ranks of discord. The hosts of divine confirmation arrive like mighty armies.  AB08883

Praise and thanks be to God that whatever flowed from the Pen of the Covenant appeared and became manifest in the realm of being.   AB02735

The birds of holiness are in rapture and delight at this call, while the owls of tyranny are in grief and affliction at this melody  AB08439

you are intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant and detached from all else save God. You have a sincere heart and steadfast feet   AB07096

Because the spirit of this age is the Covenant and the Testament of God. It is like the pulsating artery in the body of the world.   AB07149

firmness and steadfastness are an impregnable fortress, and obedience to the command of the Blessed Beauty is a manifest protection  AB06142

O thou who hast drunk from the wine of the Covenant at dawn, and from whom the lights have shone forth from the Center of Mysteries   AB09076

Through the bounty of the clouds of the Covenant, become verdant and flourishing, and yield the fruits of steadfastness and firmness  AB09549

The glory shining from the horizon of the heaven of My loving-kindness be upon those who have not broken My covenant and My testament   BH01946

the Covenant of God is the balance and the ark of salvation - whoever enters therein is saved, and whoever turns away from it perishes  AB07209

Through the outpourings of the clouds of bounty that house became a rose-garden and a nest for the birds of the bower of understanding.  AB02545

It is the flame of the Covenant that, through the heat of servitude to the Abha Beauty, hath influenced the very heart of the horizons.  AB09162

God took the covenant of this Day from all who are in the heavens and on earth, yet when He appeared in truth the people turned away...   BH03164

It is the flame of the Covenant that, through the warmth of servitude to the Abha Beauty, has influenced the very heart of the horizons.  AB09162

Observe the power of the divine teachings, that the chief executive expressed praise and gratitude for your services to the human world.   AB02928

Unquestionably the divine melody will in the future be raised in that city, but I long that this may happen in these days of the Covenant   AB02560

These steadfast souls are confirmed by the hosts of the Abha Kingdom, and these sanctified temples are supported by the Concourse on High.  AB04584

The confirmation and assistance of the Abha Kingdom are more manifest than the sun. No eye or ear has seen or heard of such confirmations.  ABU2728

You are firm in the Covenant. You thank God a hundred thousand times at every moment that you have become the recipient of such bounties.   ABU2618

Now that thou hast attained this station it behoveth thee to take up the cup of Covenant in thy hand and enter the Assemblage of humankind  AB10076

when the mighty flood of the Covenant has descended from the mountains of the Testament and the foundation of the weak has been demolished  AB08960

this greatest bounty shines and radiates like a brilliant star from the dawning-place of hopes and will forever beam in the zenith of glory  AB06975

the ocean of the Covenant has surged and heaved, and the sea of the Testament has been stirred up and intensified with mountain-like waves   AB00421

We have answered thee before and ordained for thee a station in the Tablet. Preserve it through My Name, the Protector over all the worlds.   BH02530

Were ye to know the station of this rank, faces would be dazzled at the Dawning-Place of Beauty by a light that hath illumined the horizons.  AB08194

Therefore my desire is that those lights from the Kingdom of mysteries may continuously and perpetually shine upon that family and lineage.   AB05454

By My life! The kingdom of power and might doth verily support whoever is firm in this Covenant which was taken from all those near unto God  AB03863

Otherwise all would have been scattered dust, as if nothing had ever existed. For the Covenant of God is the balance and the ark of salvation  AB07209

Your services at the Sacred Threshold are evident, manifest and appreciated. I hope they increase in manifestation and appearance day by day.  AB00832

Blessed is he who seeketh shelter beneath the shade of the Branch of God, his Lord and the Lord of the Throne and the Lord of all the worlds.   BH09434

Know that your Lord has diffused the light of the Covenant upon all horizons and has sprinkled upon existence from the light of that radiance   AB06524

From the Abha Kingdom I beseech unlimited confirmation for you, that in all matters you may be assisted by the favors of the Incomparable Lord.  AB05800

This Cause whereby the feet of the learned and the mystics have slipped save whom God, thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed, hath willed.  BH05916

Neither the clamor of the enemies' chains nor the commotion of the parties shall thereafter prevent him from turning to the Lord of all beings.   BH03742

Although divine wrath encompassed them from every direction and divine confirmations surrounded the Center of the Covenant from every direction   AB04875

this intense bounty and great victory is the love of the Manifest Beauty and firm steadfastness in the mighty Covenant of the Lord, the Generous  AB06979

These souls are the hosts of the Abha Kingdom and the near ones of the Divine Court, they were and are, and verily our hosts shall be victorious   AB06602

From this measure how much being related to the shade of the Covenant attracts divine confirmation and draws the success of the Lord of Splendor.  AB00858

It is the Call of God's Cause that has encompassed all regions, and it is the anthem of God's Covenant that has created a tumult in East and West.  AB05037

The Blessed Beauty is thy support and shelter - what worry remaineth? And the Greatest Name is thy helper and confirmer - what concern remaineth?   AB05712

"If I were to hesitate or change direction at the sight of every danger, the Ark of the Cause of God would surely fail to reach its destination."   ABU2344

The mention of the believers has been and continues to be in God's Kingdom. By My life! Its effects shall become manifest and evident in the world   BH05614

Be thou steadfast in the Cause and grieve not over anything, for soon that which shall gladden the hearts of the unitarians shall be made manifest.   BH05097

sew them with the thread of the firm handle and the strong rope of God which is God's Covenant and Testament and divine faith and binding agreement   AB06946

And that bridge is the path of the Covenant and the span of the Testament which is the means of salvation, moving by the will of the Lord of Verses   AB00604

And glory be upon you and upon everyone firm and steadfast in God's Covenant and Testament, who is established and rooted in this praiseworthy Cause.  AB04615

The sun of the Covenant like unto the Most Great Luminary of the world is shining from its dawning place of the Kingdom and has illumined all beings.  AB00960

With uprightness thou shalt obtain great victory. Verily, thy Lord confirmeth the firm ones in attaining to sublime stations in His Glorious Kingdom.  AB11453

Observe how great is the power of the Abha Kingdom, that at the mere call hearts are attracted and become enkindled with the fire of the love of God.   AB03937

Today the directing power in the heart of the world is the power of the Covenant. The more the friends stand firm the more shall they be strengthened.  AB03989

The Lamp of the Covenant hath been lit in the Niche of the Horizons...The Cloud of Bounty hath been raised up and the Rain of Benevolence poureth down  AB12515

Were all the peoples of the earth to gather against Me with swords of hatred and rancor, I would not believe any of them regarding their satanic deeds.  BH01679

Close thine eyes to all who are in the heavens and on earth, then turn thy face toward the direction of the Cause and be possessed of luminous insight.  BH01645

"These days it is more fitting that you do not separate from that land. Day and night occupy yourself with establishing the standards of the Covenant"   AB11649

the friends of God, like birds at dawn, are intoxicated with the wine and goblet, and are filled with the ecstasy of the heavenly wine of the Covenant   AB04717

The Sun of Truth is arrayed in the garments of the unseen and the veil of concealment, yet its radiance encompasses all horizons from every direction.   AB03235

Verily the standard of the Covenant hath been raised throughout all regions; it waveth above the palaces of glory and spreadeth the signs of effulgence.  AB04159

I beseech Thee by the rays shining forth from the Lamp of the Covenant to assist me to serve Thy Cause and Thy Covenant amongst the peoples of the world  AB02626

When the Bab and Baha'u'llah ascended, the friends of God in Iran blazed a hundred times more brightly and manifested the utmost sanctity and holiness.   AB01670

Their likeness is as the likeness of those who awaited the days of the Spirit, but when He came they turned away and denied God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH02340

O servants of God! Did We not make with you in Our Word a clear covenant in truth with the truth, that ye should not speak vainly concerning Our servant?  BB00002

And you, O divine company and heavenly group, gird up your loins and strengthen your backs to aid the Covenant and exalt the Word of the Lord of Dawning   AB11841

The banner of the Covenant has been raised, and the standard tied by the fingers of the will of thy loving Lord has waved above the edifice of existence.  AB03563

We aid those who have turned to the Countenance, and make mention of them in the Tablet which none hath known save God, the Single One, the All-Informed.   BH03375

Deem it not far-fetched that thou mayest become the manifestation of the favors of His Oneness and be encompassed by the glances of His eye of compassion.  AB09269

I swear by the mystery of existence that the praise of the friends who are firm in the Covenant is the constant mention of the dwellers of God's Kingdom.   AB04578

With this overwhelming might and resplendent majesty and conquering strength and perfect power, assuredly soon "necks shall be humbled and voices hushed."  AB02412

I have chanted the verses of thy steadfastness and firmness in the Covenant and Testament of God, thy strong adherence to God's firm handle and His proof   AB03307

Praise be to God Who strengthened His mighty Manifestation through the firm Covenant and distinguished His glorious Revelation through the clear Testament   AB02854

through the bounty of the Covenant it may become verdant and flourishing and through the heat of the kindled fire of the Covenant it may quickly bear fruit  AB01581

Thou didst establish the sign of Thy Ancient Covenant and raised high Thy Mighty Standard...made the Center of the Covenant renowned throughout all regions  AB02796

By the Truth itself, were the loved ones to comprehend this station as it deserveth to be comprehended, all would arise to serve the Cause with complete joy  BH10008

In this Day the world of existence is illumined with the light of the Covenant. Its rays truly are world embracing and its call reaches the Sublime Kingdom.  AB09470

the mighty hosts of divine confirmation advance from the Kingdom of sanctification, and the onslaught of victory rushes forth from the Realm of divine unity  AB07105

Therefore, in this Cycle of the Lord of the Witnessed and the Witness, the praiseworthy station is firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament   AB05262

you saw with your own eyes and heard with your own ears that the power of the Covenant is today the lifeblood flowing through the arteries of the horizons.   AB00411

O handmaiden of God! The Wronged One of the horizons counsels thee and other handmaidens to observe the Covenant. By My life! This is indeed a mighty matter.  BH06466

This is an epistle from Him Who took to Himself the Covenant of the Point of the Bayan before taking the covenant of all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH03918

Today the standard of the Covenant is raised throughout all regions and the banner of the Testament is unfurled. It is the cup of the Covenant that circulates  AB01875

This divine Covenant is an impregnable fortress and a mighty stronghold. Whoever enters and holds fast to it is preserved and protected, fortunate and secure   AB03469

For the heat of the fire of the Covenant has blazed so intensely to all horizons that no ice or frost can resist it for even a minute, and this is the truth.   AB01568

He severeth the cord of relationship from whomsoever He willeth and strengtheneth it for whomsoever He willeth. He, verily, is the All-Powerful, the Almighty.   BH02553

regarding the power of the Covenant of the Ancient Beauty. By God's life! They are deaf to the call, blind to the light, dumb in speech, and dead, not living.   AB03296

For these souls have become intoxicated from the cup of grace, they seek no intimacy except with holy fragrances and are attracted by nothing save divine lights   AB02297

This is divine power, this is the force of the All-Merciful, this is the penetrating influence of the Word of God, and this is the effect of God's glad-tidings.   AB00810

Do ye not witness how the power of the Word of God hath encompassed all regions, and how the fame of the Cause of God hath reached the East and West of the earth?  AB07788

Today heavenly education is a sign of the Covenant and the meanings of the inscribed Tablet and the unfurled Scroll are the mysteries of the Testament and Pledge.  AB10588

For steadfastness and firmness are the magnet attracting the aid and grace of the Point of Oneness, and constancy draws the confirmations of the Center of Reality.  AB04719

Verily he is of those whom the taunts of the people did not prevent, in his first turning toward the Sacred House. Thus was the matter ordained in a guarded Tablet.  BH02904

There is a power in this Cause, a mysterious power, far, far away from the ken of men and angels. That invisible power is the cause of all these outward activities.  ABU2949

to guide and encourage steadfastness and firmness in the Covenant and Testament, and to hold fast to the binding pledge and faith of the Best-Beloved of all regions  AB10571

be attracted by the magnet of the Covenant that thou mayest see the triumph of the angels of the King of the Kingdom and the valor of the hosts of the Lord of Might.  AB07127

Through this the name of the kingdom of God will be spread over the world. Through this the Sun of Reality will shine. Through this the clouds of mercy will shower.   ABU0905

This world is likened unto the ocean; the law and teachings of God is the ship; the mate is the covenant; the Captain is God; and the seashore is the kingdom of Abha.  ABU3498

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to aid thee and His loved ones and preserve you from the evil of His enemies who have broken His covenant and His testament   BH03382

Can it be possible that after the dawning of the sun of Thy Testament above the horizon of Thy Most Great Tablet, the feet of any one shall slip in Thy Straight Path?   BH02551

From the beginning of creation until now, such a wondrous Cause, such an explicit Covenant, and such an eloquent Testament by the pen of the Most High has not occurred  AB04830

The illumination of hearts is the radiance of the Day-Star of the horizons, and that which bestoweth life upon souls is the effulgence of the Day-Star of the Covenant.  AB03569

For today most people are heedless and oblivious of the power of God's Covenant and Testament, although in no age or dispensation was such a covenant ever established.  AB02770


Through Him hath the Hour appeared, and the Resurrection come to pass, and the Bridge been laid, and the Balance set up, and every firm and steadfast mountain been moved.   BH02097

God knoweth that he is the light in the lamp of the world, and that he is the one who hath turned toward the Supreme Horizon after most of the nations turned away from it.  BH01601

The heavenly power of the Covenant shall vanquish the hosts of rebellion and shall rain down upon the proud ones an eternal sense of perdition, an everlasting desolation.   AB04728

You have no purpose except the good-pleasure of God and you have dedicated all your time to service to the Kingdom of God. For this reason I have the utmost love for you.   AB02099

Ye are they who have fulfilled My Covenant and My Pledge. I bear witness that ye are the pearls of the shells of the ocean of utterance and the waves of the sea of your Lord  BH02711

For through this divine power the mighty fortress of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting One is preserved and protected, and the station and rank of souls becomes evident.   AB02841

The banner of the Covenant is raised high and the pavilion of the Testament is elevated. The angels of divine confirmation are helping and assisting from all six directions.  AB00992

This treatise is like the manifest serpent that swallows up their ropes and staffs and what they falsely devise, and like the white hand that dispels those pitch-dark depths   AB04570

comprehending and understanding its power and might is necessary, so that the impregnable fortress of God's Cause may remain preserved and protected from the breach of doubts  AB01334

Blessed art thou, inasmuch as thy temple hath been adorned with the ornament of the Covenant and thou hast attained unto the recognition of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Sublime.   BH02420

We have granted him permission, as a mercy from Us, that he may proceed with wisdom to the Dawning-Place of the Light of Oneness. We thank God, the Lord of the Exalted House.   BH00448

"Today, whoever assists the Covenant and Testament will be assisted from the Abha Kingdom, and whoever arises to serve the Covenant will be the focus of the Concourse on High"  AB06739

And in that land and region may the rays of the Sun of the Covenant shine so brightly that the birds of night mentioned in the divine psalms and tablets find no chance to fly   AB05082

Our shelter is strong; our protector is a Mighty One. He protected us last year when the enemies made such false representations which might have resulted in our destruction.   ABU1285

"They witnessed the signs of harmony; saw the light of dawn and responded to the Orb of the Horizons... Their breasts were dilated through the reading of the mighty Covenant."   AB03069

Know thou that the entire Cause hath returned to this manifest station, and none hath any movement or stillness in the Cause of God except after permission from this known spot.  AB02008

This is a Day wherein the veils have been rent asunder, the mysteries revealed, and that which was hidden in knowledge and concealed from eyes and sight hath been made manifest.   BH03282

Know thou that the 'Sure Handle' mentioned from the foundation of the world in the Books, the Tablets and the Scriptures of old is naught else but the Covenant and the Testament.  AB10265

take care that they do not create a breach in the Covenant and Testament... This matter requires great attention, for they secretly make people weak in the Covenant and Testament   AB03437

The Ocean of the Covenant is the Most Great Sea - when the firm and steadfast immerse themselves in this Sea of Mercy, they become purified and sanctified from the stain of sins.   AB06649

The Light of the Covenant hath dawned and shone forth with such brilliance that eyes are dazzled thereby. The fragrant breezes of the Testament have wafted, perfuming all regions   AB04589

Through this power, the lights of certitude encompass the horizons of existence, and through these signs the mysteries of the Beloved of the Worlds illumine the kingdom of being.   AB03532

Thou hast made him inflamed with the heat of the Sun of Thy Covenant, that the warmth of his heart might penetrate the rocks of the hearts of those who are frozen and extinguished  AB09602


"From its contents indicating the firmness and steadfastness of the beloved ones of the All-Merciful in the Cause of God and their strong adherence to God's Covenant and Testament"  AB01286

O Lord! Strengthen him to remain firm upon the bright path and to be steadfast in this Mighty Announcement which hath spread its wings over the horizons on the Day of the Covenant.  AB00300

From the meanings of its words and the foundations of its allusions, firmness and steadfastness in the Cause of God was evident and manifest. Well done! A thousand times well done!   AB07499

the power of the Covenant may assist thee to scatter the ranks of the people of discord... They shall protect the sanctuary of the Covenant, defend the stronghold of God's Covenant   AB03059

God willing, thou mayest strive with all thy heart and soul to render service to the Cause of God, to become a scholar of able pen and eloquent tongue in the school of the Covenant.  AB10587

Soon shall the tongues of the world speak in remembrance of those who fulfilled My Covenant and turned with radiant faces toward the countenance of their Lord, the Mighty, the Wise.   BH04214

The Covenant hath come and the Lord of the Day of Separation hath appeared. Blessed is he who in this Day hath fulfilled the Covenant while the idolators have risen up in hypocrisy.   BH10638

It is the hosts of the Abha Kingdom that are advancing with divine inspiration, and it is the army of the Supreme Concourse that is attacking the regions of hearts with utmost might.  AB07397

By God! None shall be protected today save those who have laid hold of the Most Great Handle, which hath appeared in the name of thy Lord, the Most Glorious, between earth and heaven.  BH07292

Glorified be the Lord of the Covenant Who attracted the monotheists through His verses, the sincere ones through His fragrances, and those near to Him through His mention and praise.   BH02251

The lamp is lit and the Beauty of the Covenant is present in every gathering. The brilliant morn of the Testament has dawned and the rays of the Sun of the Covenant are shining forth.  AB02637

The denizens of My heaven have lamented at what hath befallen My loved ones who remember God at morn and eventide and who desire naught but the betterment of the nations of the world.   BH05841

You found new spirit and increased in faith, certitude and firmness in the Covenant. Know the value of this divine gift and thank God that you are living in the Century of the Covenant  AB05079

Be well watered with the abundant rain falling from the clouds of the Testament of God, that thou mayest bring forth fresh and ripe fruits which are beneficial to the hearts and souls.  AB11441

We beseech God to assist thee and reinforce thee with the hosts of the seen and the unseen, to draw thee nigh unto Him, and to aid thee to serve His binding, mighty and wondrous Cause.   BH08313

Today the spirit of the Covenant pulsates in the arteries of the horizons, and the clouds of the Testament shower their bounties upon both worlds. Blessed is he who holdeth fast unto it.  AB09160

The wave of this sea at its highest point is like a mountain, but the wave of that Sea reaches continuously to the Supreme Concourse. Behold the difference in the path from here to there!  AB07070

Know thou, verily, the winds of confirmation shall surely surround the Ark of Deliverance, the sails of the Covenant shall be unfurled, and it shall reach the shore of the Kingdom of God.  AB07129

despite all this turmoil and upheaval, the friends of God in every place remained safe and protected. This protection and preservation was the result of the teachings of the Blessed Beauty  AB00867


A wave from the ocean of the Covenant hath surged and struck the shores of America... Under the shadow of the Standard of the Covenant, which waveth over all regions, sacrifice your lives.  AB08719

Today the spirit of the Covenant pulsates in the arteries of the horizons, and the clouds of the Testament pour forth their bounty upon both worlds. Blessed is he who holdeth fast unto it.  AB09160

The cup of grace is circulating, and those intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant are filled with joy and delight. The glance of favor encompasses all and the eyes of grace are perfect.   AB07469

The Desired One hath raised the banner unfurled at the center of the circle of existence, that His sanctified standard might wave and cast its shadow upon the kingdoms of earth and heaven.   AB07121

Praise be to God that in these years of upheaval and the most great war, the Ship of the Cause of the Luminary of the horizons reached the shore of safety through the winds of the Covenant.  AB01692

Today the Book crieth out with the most exalted call that the Mother Book hath come, all things herald the appearance of the Lord of all beings, and the Concourse on High speaketh this word   BH04380

Who took a covenant from all who dwell in earth and heaven...As for him who remained firm in His Covenant, he was safe from perdition, but as for him whose feet slipped, he fell and perished  AB08477

Far, far from it! The impregnable fortress cannot be demolished by the assault of the people of hell, and the House of the All-Glorious cannot be buried by the pickaxe of the people of pride.  AB01416

As to thee, be confident and well-assured, for the Lord of Hosts shall assist thee with the hosts of the Kingdom, and with the cohorts of the angels of confirmation from the Dominion on high.   AB05470

if all the powers of the world were to unite, they could not resist the Covenant of the Ancient Beauty... day by day the Cause of God is ascending and the Covenant of God is ever rising higher  AB03686

The call is the call of the Covenant, and the dawning of the effulgent grace of the Luminary of the horizons...His light is manifest in every sphere and His grace is apparent at every horizon.  AB00527

Verily, verily I say unto thee, the Covenant of God and His Testament is the lamp with world-illuminating rays and from the Supreme Concourse it enlightens the horizons of the earth and heaven.  AB07824

Strive thou, as much as thou art able, to encourage the leaves, that the herald of the Abha horizon may confirm thee. And the Glory be upon thee and upon every leaf who is firm in the Covenant.  AB07874

Every steadfast one is growing, and every steadfast one is supported by the angels drawn nigh. "Verily those who say 'Our Lord is God' and then remain steadfast, the angels descend upon them."   AB04831

This divine edifice is established upon bars of iron, and its pavilion is exceedingly lofty and elevated. This impregnable fortress of Truth is most towering, and its foundation firm and solid.  AB02967


These days are the days of God, and the divine Books speak of their mention and station. He saith unto Moses: "Lead forth thy people from darkness into light and remind them of the days of God."  BH03413

"Nevertheless, the power of the Ever-Living, the Almighty is at work, and the assistance of the Supreme Concourse arrives successively, and the hosts of the Abha Kingdom achieve great victories"  AB01480

Blessed are they who are adorned with the adornment of love for the Twin Martyrs, for thee, and for thy kindred. Ye, verily, have an eminent position in the sight of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH02465

For this impregnable stronghold protects the souls of men and this all-encompassing shelter is the means for the tranquillity of spirit, the redemptive life, and the true salvation of the people.  AB08606

Today the Most Exalted Pen counseleth the people of Baha to preserve their stations. God willing, may they attain unto this most great gift and act in accordance with that which exalteth the Cause  BH03008

Happy are they! Happy are they! Glad-tidings unto him who hath sought shelter beneath the shadow of the banner of God waving through the breezes of the Ancient Covenant above the castles of glory.  AB04512

Today whosoever is firm in the Covenant he will become ignited like unto a candle in the Assemblage of the world and the Confirmations of the Kingdom of Abha shall encircle him from all direction.  AB04659

This foundation of the Covenant will withstand the impact of the greatest upheavals of the world and of nations and peoples, let alone the impact of the buzzing of flies and the assault of wolves   AB12082

The Glory shining from the horizon of My Kingdom be upon those who have cast away all else save Me, who have held fast unto the cord of My loving-kindness and clung to the hem of My luminous robe.   BH04965

According to this tablet, the Banner of Praise raised on the Day of Resurrection represents the Covenant and Testament, and those who enter beneath its shade will attain salvation and eternal life.  AB08251

Praise be to God that the banner of the Covenant is raised high...The luminous lamp of the Covenant will cast such radiance to the horizons that the world of mortality will become a realm of lights  AB02332

The True Tailor has sewn and clothed the shapely form of the horizons in a robe of divine silk and heavenly brocade and damask, whose warp and weft are the effulgences of the lights of the Covenant  AB08700

This is the covenant that was taken from all at the beginning of time. Blessed is the soul that hath fulfilled its covenant - such a one is numbered among those near unto God in the perspicuous Book   BH05143

O you who are firm in the Covenant! In truth you are a servant of the Kingdom of God and have no purpose or desire except the exaltation of the Word of God and the diffusion of the divine fragrances.  AB03129

Some imagine that by casting doubts they can sadden every heart, but they are unaware that the manifest light with a single ray dispels the darkness of the horizons, and darkness cannot resist light   AB01862

But this power of the Covenant shall heat every freezing soul, shall bestow light upon everything that is dark and shall secure for the captive in the hand of nature the true freedom of the Kingdom.   AB02382

The True Tailor has fashioned and clothed the symmetrical form of the horizons with a robe of divine silk and celestial brocade, whose warp and weft were the effulgences of the lights of the Covenant  AB08700

These are the people of My ark and the companions of the pavilions of My grandeur. Upon them be My mercy and My loving-kindness and the light of My Cause whereby the heavens and earth were illumined.   BH03848

I swear by the Ancient Beauty that the waves of the Sea of the Covenant have no likeness in all the seas of the world, and the surging of that mighty deep has no parallel even in the Most Great Ocean.  AB07070

The Hand of Divine Favor has placed upon the heads of those friends a crown adorned with precious jewels, whose luminous pearl is the unique gem of the Covenant, from which the horizons are illumined   AB06860

Soon you will observe how the radiance of the sanctity of the Covenant will illuminate the horizons and the lights of the Testament will make the world and universe a rising place of the shining moon.  AB00783

If you wish to take up residence in the pavilion of grace, become ignited with the kindled fire in the Tree of the Covenant, that you may become a mine of yearning and a wellspring of joy and longing.  AB09170

Through it the universe was illumined and the horizon of existence was lit up. The star of the visible realm grew dark, and the waves of the ocean surged in the hearts of the people of the Fountainhead.  AB09083

If a soul becomes truly attracted to God as it ought and should, and becomes filled with the mysteries of the Kingdom, it will surely receive illumination from the Sun of Truth, the light of Baha'u'llah.  AB04504

Henceforth be not grieved. The Cause hath been and shall ever be in God's hands. If He willeth, He bestoweth the reward of attainment unto His presence. Verily He is the Ruler over whatsoever He willeth.   BH03752

We have heard thy call and perceived the fragrance of thy love, and have sent down for thee that which shall cause thy remembrance to endure as long as God, thy Lord and the Lord of the worlds, endureth.   BH03703

God hath promised to protect thee in His presence. His decree hath ever been and shall ever be enforced. He, verily, is the True One, the Trustworthy. In His grasp is glory and in His hand is protection.   BH03158

Today all, whether men or women, wander bewildered in the wilderness of their desires, save those souls who, through the power of the Most Great Name, have clung to the hem of the Lord of the Ancient Days  BH03080

Ye have been mentioned in the name of Truth and have been afflicted with great tribulations and mighty calamities in His path. Though outwardly despised, yet inwardly ye have been and will remain beloved.  BH01871

Thus did the faces of the people of the Most Glorious Kingdom beam with joy and the hearts of the Concourse on High were gladdened. They loosened their tongues in prayer and spoke in praise of their Lord   AB02854


as Thou hast through Thy bounty and generosity admitted me to the pavilion of the Covenant, so illumine my heart with the lights of Thy testament that the eyes of the people of all regions may be dazzled.   AB04462

Thou art the object of the glance of favor and art encompassed by the gaze of the eye of the All-Merciful. Thou dwellest beneath the shade of the Word and art holding fast to the hem of the Lord of Grandeur.  AB09311

In this Cause the Blessed Beauty has established a criterion that removes and averts all discord, because according to the conclusive text, the House of Justice is under the protection of the Blessed Beauty.  ABU0753

I beseech Thee, by my ardor in Thy love and my yearning to manifest Thy Cause, to ordain for him and for them that love him that which Thou hast ordained for Thy Messengers and the Trustees of Thy Revelation.  BH09086

false souls have appeared and will continue to appear. Beseech ye God that He may enable you to act according to that which He hath commanded and which hath been inscribed in the Book by the Most Exalted Pen   BH07033

O Lord! Facilitate their hopes and expand their hearts with the light of the Center of the Covenant, and enlighten their insight and gladden their inner secrets with the bounties of the Light of the Horizons.  AB01857

Praise be to God that He has nurtured such servants in the bosom of His grace who are manifest standards for the impregnable fortress of the Covenant and brilliant moons for the mighty tower of the Testament.  AB12117

This ship is the ship of the Covenant, which is surrounded by the winds of discord for the people of hypocrisy...the sails of the Covenant shall be unfurled, and it shall reach the shore of the Kingdom of God.  AB07129

nothing but the power of the Covenant can move the hearts of the world, just as the Old and New Testaments spread the Cause of Christ throughout the world and were the pulsating force in the body of the world   AB01507

Soon the hand of divine power will create souls who will become signs of guidance and standard-bearers of firmness and steadfastness in God's Covenant and Testament, and deterrents to those whose faith wavers.   AB01499

Because the power of the Greatest Name has gathered the wandering scattered souls in a heavenly assemblage and has kindled each one like a candle that they may throw themselves in the flame of the fire of love   AB01079


In this time when the Morn of the Covenant is dawning upon the horizons, the lights of confirmation from the Abha Kingdom have illumined both East and West... His Word is penetrating and His Covenant victorious.   AB07605

Even in the Most Holy Book, which abrogates all other books, He stated it in multiple places with such force and emphasized power - not through hints, metaphors and allusions, but in clear and explicit language.   AB01674

You have been and are always in my thoughts. We hope from divine grace that you may become so enkindled with the burning fire of the Covenant and Testament that you may ignite every wavering and dispirited soul.   AB11904

This is through the confirmation of the Kingdom of Abha which has attracted those souls and made them steadfast in the Covenant. Today the penetrative power in the heart of the world is the power of the Covenant.  AB11268

And whosoever hath turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon, the Countenance of the Ancient King hath turned toward him, and in the Most Holy and Sacred Station his mention hath been uttered by the tongue of Truth.   BH08146

"May necks be deprived that have not been placed in chains of retribution in the paths of Thy good-pleasure, and may hearts perish that have not tasted the wine of afflictions in the desert of Thy love and favor"   BH02335

And may the Glory be upon you and upon those who have drunk from the spring that flows from the right hand of the Throne of the All-Merciful and who have remained firm in God's Covenant and His Ancient Testament.   AB03565


Today the most important of all matters is awakening to firmness and steadfastness and holding fast to God's Covenant and Testament, and explaining the power and greatness of this Covenant and Testament and faith.  AB04035

Likewise observe how the power of God's Cause is becoming evident and manifest, that such an illustrious person would make such a sacrifice for a place where that perfumed body was entrusted for one or two nights   AB02585

But weak are both the seeker and the sought - this edifice is made of steel from the precious mines of the Kingdom. The greatest forces of creation are powerless to damage it, though some weak ones may fall away.   AB01107

We enjoin Our brothers and their sons to love My Branches and to render them services. Fear God and dispute not about My verses and My Branches. This is what We counseled you before and in this perspicuous Tablet.   BH10191

Power of the Covenant: "Praise be unto the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting Lord, Who hath illumined and brightened the horizon of contingent being through the dawning of the Day-Star of the Covenant and Testament"  AB04201

after His ascension to His mighty Kingdom, He did not deprive us of His exalted bestowals nor leave us bereft of His all-embracing bounties. He opened the gates of His divine outpourings from the invisible Kingdom   AB06940

O steadfast leaf! Strive to spread the Covenant and guide the handmaidens of the Most Merciful to the shade of the blessed Tree. Recite the verses of the Testament and clearly explain the evidences of the Covenant.  AB08943

O steadfast leaf! Strive to promote the Covenant and guide the handmaidens of the All-Merciful to the shade of the blessed Tree. Recite the verses of the Covenant and clearly explain the evidences of the Testament.  AB08943

Therefore, O you who are steadfast, who bow down and prostrate yourselves, rejoice in these glad tidings which illuminate existence, brighten faces, gladden hearts, revive spirits, beautify forms, and enlighten eyes  AB04522

By the True God! Verily the hosts of the exalted Throne shall gird up their loins, strengthen backs, and gladden hearts through this Covenant, which is the most resplendent dawning from the Day-Star of the horizons.  AB00258

Those who have disbelieved - God will soon seize them with a might from His presence and will exalt the names of those who have turned to the lights of the Countenance when it shone forth from this luminous horizon.   BH03547

Then when that Sun set from those horizons and blazed forth and appeared from the dawning-place of the Most Great Prison, and shone upon the horizons of the nations with the lights of the firm and impregnable Covenant  AB04984

"Do not consider that I am alone and single, for I alone resist all the nations and governments of the world. Soon these dark clouds will disperse and the Sun of Truth will shine with perfect grandeur and brilliance."  AB00416

Even the firmness and steadfastness of hills and mountains depend on the power of attraction that exists at the center of the earth. Therefore, firmness in the Covenant requires the attractive force of heart and soul.  AB11729


This is why He caused them to enter this sanctified Law and gave them dwelling in the shade of the Tree of the Covenant, and granted them residence in the lofty palace and gave them shelter in the City of the Covenant.  AB01124

for verily the Covenant is for every steadfast and firmly rooted adherent on the Day of Return, for the Testament is the fruit of the companionable tree on the Day when the Beauty of God was witnessed among the people   AB11701

I will ask God that wherever you are, you may become the cause of exalting God's Cause and spreading the Covenant and Testament - a Covenant that is the spirit of this world, a Covenant that is the light of this world.  AB12099

This victory is the promised victory mentioned in the Books, Psalms and Tablets. Despite this, bat-like souls with blind eyes cry out "Where is the light?" Say: This victory is the light, and this is the abundant grace   AB01949

The Covenant is most important - nothing is as important - because it is the magnet of confirmations. Baha'o'llah mentions it in many of His writings ... In one he says. "O GOD, confirm him who is firm in the Covenant."  ABU1869

Erelong thou shalt reap the fruits of steadfastness, and thy countenance shall shine bright as the full moon among the friends, and beneath the Tree of the Covenant and Testament thou shalt attain unto the great bounty.  AB09702

I swear by the Ancient Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones, that today in the shelter of the Covenant a gnat becomes the greatest eagle of the horizons and a soaring vulture in the heaven of radiance.  AB03474

I swear by the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - that the mighty means, the firm handle, the impregnable fortress, and the lofty and glorious shelter is the Covenant and Testament of God.  AB08913

its decree, like the divine spirit, penetrates and flows through the reality of creation. Soon you will hear the melodies of this Covenant and smell its fragrances from the Supreme Concourse and the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB02595

Now some people imagine that the Cause of God depends upon my existence; and that by destroying me they could destroy the Cause! Verily, this is far from reality. Nay, when I go, the Cause will make great progress after me.  ABU0997

Whosoever is touched by that light has become firm and his feet are planted firmly upon the Covenant of God, and whosoever is not touched by it has slipped and fallen into the well of abandonment and the pit of humiliation.   AB06524

This is a Day wherein all must speak for the sake of God, turn unto Him, and arise for His Cause. Hearken thou unto the call of the One True Speaker and hold fast unto that which will cause the exaltation of the Cause of God.   BH01945

yet none remember the signs of thy Lord save those who bear His covenant upon their necks. They who pledge allegiance to the mention of thy Lord's Name do but pledge allegiance unto God - the hand of God is above their hands.   BB00517

For four years, I have concealed this matter so that the beloved of God may not learn of your unfaithfulness to the Covenant. It is now beyond My power to hide it any longer. You have announced it yourselves to the believers.'  ABU3682

His bounty is endless and His bestowal is like unto spirit and life. He maketh the black earth to bloom with flowers and sweet herbs, and bestoweth everlasting life upon the lifeless body. Verily, He is the Powerful, the Mighty.  AB09269

The hand of power has raised this pavilion of grandeur - its pillar is the Book of the Covenant, its fabric is the Most Holy Book, and its ropes are all the divine Tablets. No one can tear it - they can only deprive themselves.   AB06637

Observe how many weak souls through the effulgences of divine favors became the foremost figures of the world, and how many obscure persons shone forth like the resplendent moon with endless rays in the horizon of eternal glory.  AB05752

"When they take refuge in it and hasten to it, they are protected from the overwhelming calamity, the widespread attack, the great upheaval, and the mighty blow"  AB01030

Now open another window and undertake a different journey - that is, travel from the realm of contingent existence to the realm of no-place, that you may witness the signs of God's Covenant and Testament in the Supreme Concourse.  AB12603

As for the matter of certain persons expressing a desire to know about the Covenant, it is not permissible to utter a word, even in code, in this region or those regions, due to a profound wisdom from the Mighty, the All-Forgiving.  AB01459

In these days when the Lamp of the Covenant is burning brightly in all regions and the lights of the bounties of the Most Great Luminary are illumining East and West from the Kingdom of the Unseen, making them the envy of the world  AB09539

No, by no means! Verily, the Word of God penetrates into the core of all things and cannot be resisted either by the hosts of the world or by the armies of the enemies! In the past ages there is a warning to every intelligent one!   AB02012

Indeed it must be so, for when assured hearts enter beneath the shade of the Divine Sinai of God's Covenant and Testament, their hearts and souls become a supreme paradise, and their speech and utterance become as honey and nectar.  AB08861

I swear by the Ancient Beauty--may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones--that the mighty stronghold and the most great handle and the impregnable fortress and the most high and noble refuge is the Covenant and Testament of God  AB08913

Thy second letter dated 19 December 1918 was received. It was the cause of great joy and gladness, for it showed thy firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament and thy yearning to raise the call of the Kingdom of God.   AB01256

Thus did God raise them from the graves of stillness and obscurity, and they were gathered beneath the unfurled standard and found rest in the extended shade, and they became evanescent, devout, and submissive to the Promised Beauty  AB11667

We beseech God that this sapling of the garden of the Covenant and Testament may grow and develop with utmost freshness in the paradise of the Abha beauty, and may ever guide and direct all to firmness in the Covenant and Testament.  AB09859

The Supreme Pen established a binding covenant and a mighty testament, and according to this covenant and testament all must show submission and obedience. No escape was left for anyone, and it was not made conditional upon anything.  AB01486


The Day of the Covenant has come, and He Who was hidden in the eternity of eternities has appeared. He has come with the truth and gives you glad tidings of that which was ordained for you by the Most Exalted Pen in the Crimson Book.   BH07980

And do Thou ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy trusted ones, them that have quaffed the wine of divine inspiration from the chalice of Thy Bounty and hastened to do Thy Pleasure and observe Thy Covenant and Testament.  BH07469

Furthermore, through the assistance and favor of the Blessed Beauty, such power and might has been made manifest from the Center of the Covenant that all the great ones and philosophers of the present are astonished and bear witness.   AB02573

Therefore, in gratitude for these divine gifts, strive now to make souls firm and steadfast in God's Covenant and Testament, for today this mighty Cause is the means of preserving and protecting the sublime Cause of the Glorious Lord.   AB06894

Then the power of the Greatest Name rent asunder the thick veils of the nations and the brilliant lights of the Ancient Beauty shone forth in the intense darkness of the people of the world. Eyes became seeing and ears became hearing.   AB02594

If we have Him with us we are invulnerable; but if we have Him not and though the whole world is on our side we have nothing. In Him and through Him we will be confirmed to do His Will and to bring mankind nigh unto His Eternal Canopy.  ABU0781

But the Blessed Tree, despite the onslaught of enemies and the blows of sword and axe from all directions, continues day by day to grow and flourish, as He says: "Verily We have sent down the Reminder, and We shall surely preserve it."   AB03166

I will continually supplicate at the holy Threshold of the Almighty, beseeching that they may remain firm in the Covenant and the Testament and that eternal life may be conferred upon them through the gracious outpourings of the Kingdom.  AB05172

Were it not for the power of the Covenant, you would have witnessed the dispersion of the believers and the total disappearance of the Cause of God. When I say the Covenant, I mean the power and the authority of Baha'u'llah given to me.   ABU2088

This is brought about through the favors of the Blessed Perfection. This is through the bounty of Baha'u'llah. We witness how he has brought about this spiritual connection among the hearts and how he has attracted these hearts together.  ABU0906

Praise be to God! that thou hast seen the effulgence of the light of the Covenant which hath enlightened all the countries. Invoke thou God that day by day the splendors of the Orb of regions may become manifest and evident more and more.  AB06269

Today the Ship of God's Cause is surrounded by the hurricanes and tempests of doubts. Only through the holy breezes of the Covenant and the power of the Testament can it be preserved and reach the haven of salvation and the shore of life   AB03981

In all tablets, books, missives and scriptures He mentioned the Covenant and Testament, praising and glorifying the steadfast and firm while censuring and condemning the wavering, even warning of divine punishment and eternal retribution.  AB00452

Soon shall the idolaters call someone from there and instill in his heart hatred for God and the Manifestation of His Self, and send him to the lands and unto you bearing that which will turn the people away from the path of glorious might  BH00934



Know thou that the Covenant which God took beneath the Tree of Anisa is the firm handle, the strongest means, the light of guidance and the sun of the forenoon. Through it the universe was illumined and the horizon of existence was lit up.  AB09083

The power of the Covenant is like unto the heat of the sun which vivified all earthly beings and caused them to grow and to thrive. Likewise the Light of the Covenant trains and uplifts the world of minds, of souls, of hearts and of spirits.   AB03250

My hope is that you will be among those firm in the Covenant and call others to the Covenant. The Blessed Beauty established this Covenant so that all would know that whatever proceeds from the Pen of the Covenant is based on consummate wisdom.  AB01498

The confidant of the divine retreat and trustee of the treasuries of heavenly mysteries is one who is the chief of those who attain their desires, who is the center of divine inspiration and the gathering place of human virtues and perfections.  AB09683

through the outpourings of the Most Great Name - may my spirit be sacrificed for each and every one of His loved ones - the breezes of the Abha Kingdom are today wafting in such wise as to transform drops into seas and atoms into radiant stars   AB06656

The time has come for prowling in this plain and meadow. The cawing and croaking is loud, and the shameless hyena is passing to and fro - put him to flight with your leonine might and make him despair of casting doubts through your manly roar.   AB02010

I beseech Thee by the lands wherein the fragrances of Thy Manifestation were diffused and the breezes of Thy grace did waft, and by the regions which gloried over the heaven in that they were honored by Thy footsteps and adorned with Thy traces   BH04922

Therefore, thou who art named after Jam, take hold of this cup that thou mayest become the Jamshid of these days and make a whole world intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant. Drink and give to drink, become intoxicated and make others drunk.  AB08029

The people of certitude who are mentioned in the Qur'an as the companions of the right hand and in the Qayyumu'l-Asma as the dwellers of the Crimson Ark must manifest such power and might that such idle persons will be powerless to prevent them.   BH03406

It is the power of the Covenant that has stirred the horizons, for in the body of creation it is the pulsing artery that contracts and expands and sustains all affairs and regulates the affairs of the people and is the connecting force among all.  AB00578

the prerequisites for both are unwavering constancy and steadfastness in the mighty and ancient Covenant and Testament of God. If one doth not cling and hold fast unto it, a harvest of knowledge and certitude is not worth a grain of mustard seed.  AB09995

If there were justice, all would testify that this Pen could not stir East and West except through the aid of the Blessed Beauty's grace, and this melody could not cause the regions to vibrate save through the confirmation of the Most Great Name.   AB00564

Consider what wonderful love is this that has been established between us through the Power of His Holiness Baha'u'llah! [...] Therefore it is made clear to you that this love and amity have been brought into being through an extraordinary power.   ABU1824

'This power is the power of the Blessed Beauty. Who can withstand it? The Zahyais could not stand against it. They became humiliated and get submissive. Whoever tried to oppose it perished, because the Blessed Beauty is the assister of his cause.'  ABU0362

The Covenant is a star that gleams and shines upon the horizons, and its lights will dispel the darkness, and its sea will cast the accumulated foam of doubts upon the shore of extinction. No force in existence can resist the power of the Kingdom.   AB01366

The Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be sacrificed for His steadfast loved ones - praise be to God, has trained souls who, like a mighty structure and a wall of steel, protect the religion of God and sacrifice themselves in service to God's Covenant.  AB02815

With their own hands they help the Cause of God, though they themselves are wholly unconscious of it. Verily God rendereth His Cause victorious at one time through the aid of His enemies and at another by virtue of the assistance of His chosen ones.  BH06788

We testify that thou hast been with Me from the earliest days, and hast attained to the hearing of the Call and the beholding of the Supreme Horizon, and We have known from thee what We have known from none else. He is thy Helper in all conditions.   BH00309

I have brought thee with myself so that I may educate thee according to my own standard. As soon as I observe that thou hast attained to that standard I shall send thee away. Daily thou must prepare thyself for the services of the Cause before thee.  ABU0963

And now, when the Covenant has been written and established, how can any one be foolish enough to imagine that they can resist it? No, the ensign of the Covenant has reached to the supreme heights, and its authority will be spread over all the earth  AB10791

His Honor Samandar, the kindled fire of the Covenant, praise be to God, vanquished and disgraced that party of hypocrisy in Rasht and made manifest the meaning of "Truth has come and falsehood has perished, indeed falsehood is ever bound to perish."   AB00761

Divine confirmation from every direction encompasses the maidservants of the Most Merciful who are firm in the Covenant, and the aid and protection of the King of existence accompanies every leaf who is steadfast in the Covenant of the Lord of Yazdan.  AB07883

The tablet emphasizes the power of the Covenant by linking it to salvation and eternal life, stating that "Whosoever entereth beneath that standard shall attain salvation, and upon whomsoever the shadow of that banner falleth shall find eternal life."  AB08251

The candle of the Covenant, to the chagrin of the hypocrites, has illumined the horizons with the radiance of servitude, and the fame of the Blessed Beauty's greatness has caused such commotion in the world that the foundations of nations are shaken.   AB00631

Praise be to God that the Covenant is mighty and the Testament is binding, the pledge is firm and the lamp is lit, the ocean is surging and the cloud of the ascension is continually outpouring, the lamp is blazing and the glass is delicate and radiant.  AB02225

You and all the friends must encourage souls to hold fast to the Covenant and Testament, for the power of the Covenant gathers and unites the friends. Otherwise, any capricious person will arise to cause division and gather a few souls around himself.   AB00366

Through this the fortress of God's Cause is preserved from the onset of any weakening and the occurrence of any division. This is among the most precise of matters and upon it rests the establishment of God's religion and the strengthening of God's law.  AB03454

In any case, the divine call is ever raised from that land and region, and the sweet fragrance of the holy breaths is diffused. It is hoped that ere long it will create such a ferment that it will make the region of Isfahan a paradise of good-pleasure.   AB02268

The Cup-Bearer of the Kawthar of eternity from His bountiful hands bestoweth the wine of faithfulness. How excellent is the soul that aimed and reached its goal! We beseech God to make the heedless aware and guide the true seekers to the river of mercy.   BH07011

I swear by the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name that if today a soul should arise as they ought and hold fast to God's covenant and testament, holy breaths will reach from the Kingdom and they will be assisted by the hosts of the Supreme Concourse.   AB01714

This remedy is the medicine of the Covenant and Testament, and the distinguishing elixir of the Merciful's Covenant, which provides instantaneous healing to the sick body of contingent being and is the great prepared balm for the severe wound of the world.  AB04357

Until wavering appears, the lofty station of the steadfast will not become clear and evident...the banner of the Covenant will not be raised at the pole of the horizons and the fragrances of the garden of the Testament will not perfume the hearts and souls  AB01695

I constantly beseech the Sacred Threshold that the fragrances of the kindnesses of those dear friends may perfume the nostrils of the friends. This is from God's grace which He bestoweth upon whomsoever He willeth, and God is the possessor of great grace.   AB00752

For in this day, the souls reverberate by the power of the Covenant. They become enlivened by the spirit of the Covenant. They move by the call of the Covenant, otherwise they become depressed and inactive as a body without a soul, a lamp without a light.   ABU2207

Soon shall the veils be rent asunder, the Cause appear, the light shine forth, the Word become clear, the Manifestation become resplendent, and the Will become manifest. In His grasp is the control of all things and He is the Powerful over what He willeth.   BH01858

They shall be so confirmed by the power of the Kingdom that they will make the horizons the envy of the seven layers of heaven through the light of splendor. They shall cause earthquakes in the pillars of the world and create tumult in every town and city.   AB02474

When the Star of the Covenant and the radiant Morn shone forth from the Covenant of the worlds, the eyes of the lovers were illumined, their hearts gladdened and their breasts, even as the wilderness of Sinai, have found delight through the effulgent glory.  AB12086

The Covenant meeting that you have organized will surely receive confirmations, for the motivating force in the arteries of the world is the power of the Covenant. Without this power, spirituality cannot be attained and illumination will not become manifest.  AB02082

When thou hast drunk the choice wine of understanding from the words of thy Lord, the Lord of all religions, say: "Praise be unto Thee, O Thou Who called unto me through the tongue of the Manifestation of Thy Cause when He was in the hands of the oppressors."   BH01851

In this day loftiness and sublimity is steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament. God hath ordained that the mystery of exaltation is to firmly cling unto the Sure Handle, for it is the Firm Cord; the Ancient Covenant; the Manifest Light; the Straight Path.   AB04575

The dawning place of the world is brightened through the effulgence of the Daystar of the Covenant which hath outshone the radiance of Sinai. All these favours emanate from the bountiful grace of the Abha Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones.  AB01345

Today, the world of humanity is in need of this Power more than at any other time... But the Power of the Blessed Perfection has come to stay, bringing healing under its wide, outstretched wings. This Power alone is the solvent for all these puzzling problems.   ABU1803

The matter that concerneth you is steadfastness in the love of God and the Dawning-Place of His Revelation. God willing, ye must needs remain steadfast in this matter with the utmost power and strength. This point being established, all circle round this station  BH01703

The Glory shining from the horizon of the heaven of My grace be upon the people of God who have not cast behind them His Covenant and His Testament, who have heard and responded - these, verily, are among those that are firmly established in a perspicuous Book.   BH00792

Glory be upon thee and upon all who are firm in the Covenant and hold fast to the sure handle that cannot be broken on the Day of Gathering and Resurrection, for firmness in the Covenant is a magnet for bounty and radiance and attracts every good in all regions.  AB00939

Therefore, take hold thou of the way of the Most Glorious Beauty and seek the path of that Beloved One. That is, array the heavenly battlefront and become a world-conqueror through the sword of faith, the blade of certitude, and the silken banner of the Covenant.  AB09377

I swear by the Luminous Countenance and the Most Glorious Beauty - may my spirit and my very being be sacrificed for His loved ones - that the dwellers of the Most Great Court cry out "Well done! Well done!" to those firm in the Covenant from the Supreme Kingdom.  AB06707

"This is a Book which speaketh with truth and maketh mention of them that have believed in God and His sovereignty in these days wherein the pillars were shaken and feet did slip, and heedlessness seized all who dwell on earth save them who purified their hearts"   BH01737

that boundless sea is the sea of the Covenant, and that mighty bridge is the divine teachings and the straight path, from which captives of self and passion flee from those divine counsels and admonitions - they tremble and scatter and drown in destroying waters.   AB00407

The confirmations of the exalted Kingdom descend upon the hearts of the sincere are resplendent with these lights like unto a true morn. The life giving breezes blow from the gardens of divine bounty just as the tempests of tests and tribulations surge and swell.   AB01013

We testify that you have turned to God and left your home by His command, traversing land and sea until you entered the Luminous Spot - the place wherein the Lote Tree of the Far Boundary speaks: "The Kingdom belongs to God, the Sovereign of the throne and earth."   BH02676

The dawn of the Covenant glows with radiant light, and the Witness of the Covenant is the lamp of the gathering. The light of sanctification has brightened both East and West from the invisible Kingdom, and has become as armor and mail for the body of God's Cause.   AB00617

Praise be to God that whatsoever flowed from the pen of this wanderer two or three years ago has now all appeared in the realm of existence and the mysteries have become evident, so that all may become awakened and aware that this pen is divinely aided and inspired.  AB01914

These are servants who have been set aflame with the fire of the Covenant and have drawn light from the lights of the Testament which shineth with most brilliant radiance upon all regions...and confirm them in service to Thy Covenant throughout all contingent beings  AB09775

For they are the supported ones, they are the successful ones, they are the victorious ones through the hosts of the Supreme Concourse. Their faces shall shine in the horizon of the world with lights by which the dwellers of the pavilion of grandeur shall be blessed.  AB01660

Therefore, whoever calls to the divine Covenant will surely be assisted, as has been proven a thousand times. And whoever shows the slightest wavering in the Covenant and Testament will immediately fall, becoming frustrated and disappointed even in this mortal world.   AB05759

I swear by the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name that the eye of the world has not seen anyone more truthful or more benevolent than these servants, for we are commanded by God's Covenant and Testament to show the utmost obedience and submission to the government  AB04185

The effect of the pen of that kind friend was the cause of joy to the soul and conscience, for the meanings were spiritual occurrences and heartfelt emotions emanating from the reality of the inner heart, and sufficient and complete proof of firmness and steadfastness.  AB05607


Who can resist the power of the Covenant and who can prevent the outpouring of the Dayspring of the horizons? These souls are in darkness, but the horizon of creation is bright; these crows are birds of the trash heap, while the garden of the Covenant is a rose garden.   AB00349

In the Koran it is mentioned: As to the foam, it is quickly gone; and as to what is useful to man, it remaineth on the earth. These corrupt thoughts that emanate from personal and evil intension will all vanish, whereas the Covenant of God shall remain stable and secure.  AB00946

A person deprived of the spirit of the Covenant is sentenced as dead. The dead surely disintegrate. Therefore, breathe the spirit of the Covenant and the Testament as much as ye can in the hearts, so that the souls may progress day unto day and obtain a new exhilaration.   AB05482

They imagined that perhaps the fire of the divine Lote Tree would be extinguished and the lights of the Most Great Luminary would completely vanish from the horizons of the nations...Praise be to the Beloved of the world that in the end all were disappointed and defeated   AB02007

show forth such courage and valor beneath the standard of God's Covenant and the banner of His Testament that the hosts of doubts of the people of veils may vanish in the west of nothingness, for the Sun of God's Covenant is at the zenith of its heat, power and effulgence  AB12625

and the waves of the Ancient Ocean have encompassed the shores of the worlds of creation, and the cloud of bounty hath gained ascendancy over the horizons of existence, and the powers of the Divine Kingdom have set all the pillars of creation in motion from every direction  AB04814

By My life! The kingdom of power and might doth verily support whoever is firm in this Covenant which was taken from all those near unto God, and the Sovereign of Truth is the helper of whosoever holdeth fast to this firm Handle stretched between the heavens and the earths.  AB03863

Consider the bounty and favor of the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name, that while a hundred thousand religious leaders and monks and countless scholars and learned ones of the world are deprived, you have been made privy to the secrets of the sanctuary of the Kingdom.  AB09156

Ye have plighted your troth to the Ancient of Days, ye have drunk deep from the chalice of loyalty. Ye have guarded and defended the Cause of God; ye have not been a cause of dividing up His Word; ye have not brought His Faith low, but have striven to glorify His Holy Name   AB04432

When they raised their uproar from every direction and promoted suspicions and delusions, the Star of the Covenant cast forth its brilliant rays and they all became disgraced, defeated and routed, while the banner of the Covenant was raised high at the axis of all horizons.  AB01428

How the Testament and Covenant of the Supreme Pen has become the cause of gathering together the loved ones and exalting the Word of God! If this Testament and Covenant of the Blessed Beauty did not exist, you would see how the gathering of the loved ones would be scattered  ABU2561

That is to say, be thou assured that in the sanctified court of the unseen Kingdom of Glory, thou art ever present in every heart which is kindled by the fire of the love of God, even as thou art present in the heart and remembered by every fibre in the being of 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB04889

Soon will the standard of the Covenant be raised high and the Sun of the Testament shine forth. The army of the Covenant will charge forth, the divine sea will surge, the spiritual breeze will waft, the merciful fragrance will spread, and the fountain of truth will gush forth  AB01864

For today it is through the power of the Covenant that souls are stirred, through the spirit of the Covenant that they are revived, through the call of the Covenant that they are moved - otherwise they become withered and dejected, a body without spirit, a lamp without light.   AB04009

But my confidence and trust was in him, because during the days of his life he explicitly promised me that he will assist me always. I heard this promise from his own lips. Therefore I knew that under all circumstances I will be confirmed and all the enemies will be defeated.   ABU3019

That dawn has risen from the horizon of the Supreme Pen in the shadow of the Blessed Tree, firm in root, lofty in branch, verdant, flowering, ever-bearing fruit in every moment. That true dawn and brilliant daybreak shines upon the East and West with the lights of divine gifts.  AB04558

The Cause of God is like a flood - a flood cannot be without foam, but the foam vanishes while the water remains. These souls have no importance. In all ages such souls have appeared in the time of the Holy Manifestations, but in a short time they were obliterated and destroyed.   AB01316

We have had objectors from among the famous ones of the horizons, and objectors like Na?iri'd-Din and 'Abdu'l-?amid, two kings, but through the power of the Abha Kingdom all of these were obliterated and destroyed, while the standard of the Covenant waves throughout all horizons.  AB00340

"By its aid; the pillars of the Religion of God are raised, the edifice of the Law of God is made firm, the light of the love of God shineth forth, the signs of the bestowals of God appear, the sweet fragrance of the breeze of the love of God are wafted, and His Word is exalted."   AB04985

This is through the Power of the Covenant of God, for until this day an event of this character has never transpired that from the East and Asia contributions were forwarded to the West for the building of a Temple. Verily this is a cause of astonishment for the people of perception.  AB05281

Now, praise be to God that the banner of the Covenant waveth over thousands of souls. It is therefore evident what influence it shall exert hereafter. When the ocean of the Covenant surgeth, with a single wave it casteth out thousands of worthless objects - how much more these souls!  AB01012

The radiance of servitude shining from the Candle of the Testament has illumined all horizons in spite of the people of discord, and the renown of the grandeur of the Blessed Perfection hath caused such an outcry throughout the world that it hath made the limbs of all nations quiver.   AB01455

Far, far from it! The hand of discord shall never bring low the banner of the Covenant, and the dust of dissension shall never reach the heights of the light of the horizons. The lowly fly cannot resist the majestic eagle, and the dust of doubts cannot veil the light of the Covenant.   AB00280

The more affliction increased, the more He increased in remembrance and utterance until He filled the horizons. Can anything prevent Him from the remembrance of His Lord? Nay, by Him Who controlleth the winds! Can the vicissitudes of time sadden Him? Nay, by His Most Great Appearance!   BH04798

Praise be to God that for a time thou didst arise to serve the Covenant and Testament in Mazandaran, and wert confirmed in diffusing the divine fragrances throughout those regions. Now too, through the power of the Covenant, thou must create such attraction and ecstasy in that land...   AB05595

He manifested the Center of the greatest servitude and supreme bondage and commanded all to turn unto him and refer to him, for he is the sole Interpreter, the unique Source, the glorious Reference Point, and the one who understands the mysteries of God's mighty and praiseworthy Book.   AB01457

It is as if the Blessed Beauty had not taken a Covenant and Testament and had not appointed an explicit Center and had not mentioned the Covenant in all Tablets and had not praised the steadfast ones with prayers and had not cursed the Covenant-breakers and had left the Cause ambiguous   AB01540

Since you have attained and possess the pearls of divine love, guard them from thieves and betrayers. This is the counsel of the Wronged One of the horizons. Know thou the station of the party of God, both men and women, and be occupied with praising and thanking the Lord of all beings.   BH00572

Know this for a certainty: that today the penetrative power in the arteries and the nerves of the world of humanity is the Power of the Covenant. The body of the world will not move with any other power except through the Power of the Covenant. There is no other power similar unto this.   ABU2273

The entire world was brought from nothingness into being specifically for the knowledge of God, exalted be His glory, and was adorned with the ornament of existence. Yet when the horizon of the world was illumined by the Sun of Revelation, all were found to be deprived save whom God willed.   BH03177

You too, O friends and helpers, become his partners and confidants, arise to serve at that Threshold, and bring the contingent world to ecstasy and joy, for the darkness of contingent limitations is at its most intense while the light of servitude shines forth with brightness and effulgence.  AB05573

Indeed, if a number of souls endowed with utmost detachment, ecstasy, firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant could travel to South America, they would be divinely confirmed like unto Peter and Paul, for the artery that pulsates in the body of the world today is the power of the Covenant.  AB10093


Setting aside every title and calling out "O 'Abdu'l-Baha! O bondservant of Baha!" until the pillars of earth and heaven are shaken by thy call. For with this iron pen have I built the pillars of the lofty palace, and in this do I glory among the Concourse on high in the Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB01646

"From the musk-laden breeze of the garden of the Covenant the horizons are perfumed, and from the lights of dawning the East and West are illumined... Soon will the light of the Covenant cast its brilliant rays upon all regions and the Sun of the Testament shed its radiance upon East and West."  AB03106

Like a candle may he shine bright, and like a blazing fire burn away the veils of doubts. Like the breeze from the gardens of oneness may he quicken the dead, and with the fragrance from the rose garden of grace perfume all nostrils. Like an ocean may he surge forth and like thunder may he roar.  AB04706

Never can the day-star of the Covenant be eclipsed by the puerile efforts of childish minds, nor the shining countenance of the sun be vexed by the faint cries of feeble bats, nor the flood of vernal grace be confined by a handful of clay, nor the breezes of the bower of the Testament be stilled.  AB00005

The sea of the Covenant will surge once and cast out the dead bodies to the shore, for the sea does not accept dead bodies... In brief, this foam of the sea has no permanence and will soon vanish and disappear, while the sea of the Covenant will surge eternally and remain in turmoil and upheaval.   AB02183

The standard of the Covenant is raised high at the center of the world, and its banner is billowing and surging from the winds of confirmation from the Kingdom. The peoples of all regions are entering beneath its shade, and the hosts of the Concourse on High follow one after another in its support.  AB09709

"For all things are dependent upon His Will, and the worth of all acts is conditioned upon His acceptance and pleasure. The whole universe is but a handful of clay in His grasp. Unless one recognize God and love Him, his cry shall not be heard by God in this Day. This is of the essence of His Faith"  BH01507

On this blessed day the friends of God must be adorned with the crown of detachment and the luminous raiment of steadfastness, and must remain attentive and hold fast to this blessed Supreme Word, which is a penetrating sword for the opposers and an enduring bounty for those who have turned to Him.   BH01357

Although the Sun of Truth has set from the horizon of the world, Its radiant beams, brilliant light, perfect bounty and all-encompassing grace remain established and firm. Every moment a new ray dawns from the unseen realm and in every breath powerful confirmations arrive from the world of mysteries.  AB00892

These are days the like of which the very essence of creation has neither seen nor comprehended. Blessed is the soul that has not been prevented by the whisperings of the deceivers from the Lord of the Day of Judgment, and has not been deprived of the outpourings of divine mercy in these blessed days.  BH02519

By God's life, thou hast been and art mentioned in the Most Holy Court. No thanks befitteth this most exalted station, and no praise attaineth unto this most glorious rank. However, purely through grace and loving-kindness, the Tongue of Grandeur hath, on behalf of His Afnan, offered praise and thanks.  BH00707

For this is the ark of salvation, this is the cause of life, this is the firm handhold, this is the supreme means, this is the greatest sign, this is the extended cord between earth and heaven, this is the ladder of ascent to the highest companion, this is the praiseworthy station in the heaven of might.  AB08904

This is a day at the mention of which the eyes of the chosen ones were solaced, but when it appeared the divines and religious doctors denied it, save whom God, the Lord of the Day of Reckoning, wished. I bear witness that through their oppression the servants have broken God's Covenant and His Testament   BH01655

"Praise be to God, the grace and favor of the Blessed Beauty has granted His servants such a station and position that they are in an impregnable fortress, protected and preserved amongst all peoples. If all who are on earth should rise up and strive and attack with arrows and spears, they can do no harm"  AB02065

For this is the ark of salvation, this is the cause of life, this is the sure handle, this is the supreme means, this is the most great sign, this is the cord stretched between earth and heaven, this is the ladder of ascent to the Supreme Horizon, this is the praiseworthy station in the heaven of command.  AB08904

Perchance this party will separate itself from other parties and hasten to the right hand of the Most Holy Throne, which is the seat of that Sovereign of existence, and arrive at the shore of God, which is the place of presence before that Root of the Blessed Tree that is neither of the East nor of the West.   BH02794

The Ancient Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) educated us in all degrees and bestowed heavenly teachings. The sacred Tablets have encompassed the world, and the conduct, behavior, movement and rest of that holy Being constitute the greatest teachings in the world of contingent existence.  AB02202

yet His ancient outpourings continue upon you, His lights shine upon you, the fragrances of His holiness waft over you, and the breezes from the gardens of His Kingdom blow upon you... and the power of the Covenant appearing like brilliant light from the radiant Kingdom in the horizons of the contingent world   AB03833

And know with certainty that if a person calls to the Kingdom with perfect steadfastness and promotes the Covenant with complete firmness, even if they are a weak ant they can put a mighty elephant to flight from the field, and if they are a frail mosquito they can break the wings and feathers of a fierce eagle.   AB03780

so that all might rise, through this effulgence which is the shining moon of the worlds and universe, to receive unlimited outpourings of grace and become manifestations of the invisible confirmations of the One, witnessing the victory of hosts unseen and observing the power of the armies of the Concourse on High  AB03087


Their hearts have rejoiced from perusal of the inviolable [Book of the] Covenant, and their lives have adorned the pages of the Perspicuous Book--the Book which recounteth the tokens of steadfastness and firmness, of cleaving unto the indestructible, Sure Handle, and of clinging unto the hem of the Robe of Grandeur.   AB02634

In the Book of the Covenant Baha'u'llah declares that by these two verses this Personage is meant. In all His Books and Tablets He has praised those who are firm in the Covenant and rebuked those who are not. He said, "Verily, shun those who are shaken in the Covenant. Verily, God is the Confirmer of the firm ones."  ABU0412

Follow the decree which We have revealed to you before, for it is indeed the truth which We have sent down in truth by your Lord's leave upon a mighty, straight path... And similar to what was written on that page, We had revealed before for you to convey to Solomon who was among the religious leaders of that island   BB00367

Those souls who are known today for their support of this Cause, whose mention has been revealed in the Tablets - respect for these souls is incumbent upon all, so long as they remain firm and steadfast in the love of God and His Cause. This is the word of truth which falsehood does not follow, if you but understand.   BH00890

The tests of every dispensation are in direct proportion to the greatness of the Cause, and as heretofore such a manifest Covenant, written by the Supreme Pen, hath not been entered upon, the tests are proportionately more severe. These trials cause the feeble souls to waver while those who are firm are not affected.   AB00208

The signs of divine power are appearing moment by moment from the Abha Kingdom in such a way that minds and souls are left bewildered. The messenger of oneness comes continuously and successively from the realm of placelessness to the world of existence, and universal glad tidings arrive and descend with every breath.   AB03321

Leave doubts to those veiled and concealed behind the veils of the learned ignorant ones. By God's life, they wander bewildered in the depths of vain imaginings. Leave them to their idle sport. Sufficient for them is what has appeared from the Most Exalted Pen to refute them and expose as false their groundless fancies.  AB00987

O Nushirvan! Take up the cup of sweetness from the ancient world, prepare the feast of the Covenant, and raise the call of "drink ye!" in the gathering of those intoxicated with the wine of God's love, that every mind may be awakened and every awakened one become intoxicated with the chalice of the Covenant of the Lord.  AB09554

As for the Spiritual Assembly of Shiraz, my hope is that it will surpass all other assemblies, for this assembly was established in the birthplace of the Blessed Tree. The Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) confirms it, and the Ancient Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) grants success  AB05776

"Verily, I send thee good news of the confirmation which thou shalt receive, the like of which was never seen by the eyes in those regions, and of the success, the lights of which will brilliantly shine in those regions--if thou wilt arise with all thy power to assist the Testament of God and to serve the Covenant of God"  AB04207

They should be occupied with service to the Cause, detached from all else. The sayings of people will not harm them. This evanescent servant beseecheth God, exalted be His glory, for their success - such success that its fragrance may be diffused throughout the world. This is a mighty day; one must regard time as precious.   BH00865

Certainly the grandeur of God's Cause must be made evident to the people of Iran through its manifestation outside Iran, so it may become apparent that if this hidden pearl and treasured gem finds no value or worth in Iran, when it falls into the hands of jewelers abroad it becomes precious and souls are sacrificed for it.   AB01397


Take up in thy hand a goblet of sweetness from the ancient world and adorn the feast of the Covenant. Raise the cry of "drink ye!" in the gathering of those intoxicated with the wine of the love of God, that every mind may be awakened and every awakened one may become inebriated with the chalice of the Covenant of the Lord.  AB09554

Be assured with the true assurance that, verily, dependence upon the Covenant of God is surrounded from all directions by those gifts and the angel hosts assist it on the right hand and on the left hand, and the power of the Holy Spirit strengthens it in all circumstances and meets it with signs of splendor in the horizons.   AB07025

How many among the people of the Bayan, when they saw that the Cause had been exalted, laid claim to that which caused the Cause to be lost in the lands. When the breezes of tests blew, they veiled their faces in fear for themselves, and when the winds of assurance passed, they came forth and opposed God, the Lord of creation.   BH04227

The might of the Covenant has set the heart of the horizons in motion, and the power of the Testament has quickened the spirit of the universe. The divine Israfil has bestowed eternal life upon those intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant, and the merciful Gabriel has revealed to sanctified hearts the verse of the Testament.  AB05034

leave the vain imaginings of the doubters and hearken to the true and honest Word explicitly set forth in the Book of God by the Center of the Covenant, the Interpreter of the Book, who is learned in its interpretation and firmly grounded in knowledge, through a clear text that accepteth neither interpretation nor explanation.   AB05448

Yet praise be to Thee, O my God, for having preserved Thy Covenant, protected Thy Testament, completed Thy radiance and, O my Beloved, proclaimed Thy Word, diffused Thy fragrances, established Thy proof and manifested Thy evidence. Thou hast safeguarded Thy sincere servants and righteous loved ones, making them as walls of steel  AB01372

souls have been nurtured in the shade of the education of the Blessed Beauty who, like the trees of the Garden of Paradise, have grown and developed in this divine garden and have spread such roots in the soil of existence that a hundred thousand tempests and storms, nay even violent ages of trials, shall never cause them to waver  AB03205

The Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) for a very long time stood in that city with utmost power and grandeur against all nations and two mighty governments. The Word of God was being exalted to all horizons - that is, Iraq was the center of the Sun of the horizons and the Dawning-place of effulgence.   AB02198

The fame of the Covenant has caused a great commotion throughout all regions...The power of Truth is triumphant over creation, the divine Will prevails over human realities. Though they arose to extinguish the kindled fire, its flame grew higher, and though they strove to put out the divine lamp, its radiance became more brilliant  AB01111

The lofty station and impregnable shelter is the Covenant, wherein the dwellers of that edifice abide today beneath the protection of the All-Merciful Lord. How elevated it is, that the birds of idle fancies cannot soar to its heights! And how exalted it is, that the demons of vain imaginings and surmises know not the way thereto!  AB09915

Through the blessing of the Blessed Perfection health was granted to me. Immediately I began to write Tablets so that the "Aiadi" of the Cause of God would give the Glad-tidings to the friends that Abdul-Baha is not weak. Through the help and assistance and the blessing and confirmation of the Blessed Beauty he is exceedingly healthy   AB04996

I swear by the Educator of the seen and unseen and the Lord of all existence that should a soul arise holding firm to Covenant and Testament of God as is appropriate to this great matter, the company of the angels nigh unto God and the hosts of the All-Loving Lord will confirm him and the power of divine assistance will encompass him.  AB05316

The essence of all essences of eternity and everlasting purity is the Covenant of the Luminary of the horizons, which is from the day of "Am I not?" until the endless evening - it had no beginning and will have no end. Whosoever abideth beneath its shade is eternal and steadfast, and whosoever is outside it is transient and ephemeral.  AB06301

Counsel him that all the powers of the world cannot resist 'Abdu'l-Baha. Christ had eleven people at His ascension - then observe what happened. The Roman and Greek emperors could not resist. 'Abdu'l-Baha, praise be to God, through the assistance and favor of Baha'u'llah, has pure, self-sacrificing lovers throughout the East and West.   AB00497

His favor hath reached such a degree that He maketh mention of His loved ones in the Most Great Prison. Have ye witnessed any bounty greater than this? Nay, by His Self! Have ye found any lord more merciful than He? Nay, by His Beauty! Have ye known any beloved more compassionate than He? Nay, by His Command which hath subdued the worlds!  BH01558

Observe how the piercing meteor of the Covenant struck the horizons and what radiance from the invisible Kingdom fell upon the pages of the Slavs and Vlachs. Illumine the East! Perfume the West! Give light to the Slavs! Bestow spirit upon the Vlachs! Despite this, these deniers like bats hide in their corner of obscurity denying the sun.   AB00067

The Tree of Man hath been set ablaze by the fire that was kindled on the holy Mount Sinai of the Covenant in the wilderness of Paran. Draw thou nigh unto this fire and seek the light of guidance from this fire that hath been kindled at the center of creation. By God the Truth! It is a light unto the steadfast and a fire unto those who waver  AB03058

on the day He shone upon the horizons with the lights of the Covenant and took the mighty Covenant mentioned in His Tablets and Scriptures and in the Bayan and the Qur'an and the Torah and the Gospel...And praise and thanks and glory be upon all who have held fast to this mighty Cord and manifest Serpent which swallows up all ropes and staves  AB01886

My Covenant with you is now accomplished. Gird up the loins of endeavour, and arise to diffuse My Cause. Be not dismayed at the sight of the degeneracy and perversity of this generation, for the Lord of the Covenant shall assuredly assist you. Verily, He shall surround you with His loving protection, and shall lead you from victory to victory.  BBU0003

The defender of the banner of the Covenant is the Lord of the Covenant, and the helper of the hosts of the Covenant is the Lord of Loving-kindness. Soon thou shalt find these accumulated clouds cleared away from the horizon of the world and the Sun of the Covenant shining from the Dayspring of the Covenant with utmost brilliance and radiance.   AB01292

Hold fast after Me unto the Branches that have branched from this Ancient Root. From them will the fragrance of My garment be shed throughout the world, and none shall inhale it, save those who turn their faces towards Him, and remain steadfast. After the Aghsan, a lofty station hath been ordained for the servant in attendance before the Throne.  BH03560

'Ali, peace be upon him, said: "O God, I know that knowledge will never cease entirely nor will its sources be cut off, and that Thou wilt never leave Thy earth without a Proof over Thy creatures - one manifest, though not obeyed, or one in fear and concealed - lest Thy proof be invalidated and Thy friends go astray after Thou hast guided them."  BB00415


If the Holy Spirit itself were to be embodied and were to hesitate in the slightest degree, I swear by the Ancient Beauty (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones) that its body would be paralyzed and its form rendered inert. For the foundation of God's religion, the exaltation of God's Word, and the elevation of God's Cause depend upon this.  AB00307

This is the Ancient Covenant! This is The One who has the cup in His Hand! This is the Testament of Accord! This is a Covenant to hold to, and utterly detach one’s self from aught else. This is the Cause of stopping the cries of Contradiction (made by deniers) through the Divine Mercy. This is the Pre-existent Covenant! This is the weighty Mystery!  AB03005



Many glad-tidings have arrived from all directions, but they cannot be revealed, for the unfaithful friends would immediately try to extinguish them and attempt to disperse that gathering. Therefore, briefly, the glad-tidings are given that the Cause has become most glorious and its greatness has become evident. Soon it will create a wondrous ferment.   AB01197

No progress is possible except through the power of the Holy Spirit and the Cause of God. Each of the Manifestations of God appeared amongst a nation and in a country which outwardly had no means of salvation or progress. But no sooner had those nations come under the shelter of the Cause of God than they excelled all the civilized countries of the world  ABU1436

Hearken unto the call of Him Who hath loved thee and maketh mention of thee for the sake of God, that thou mayest stand firm in a Cause which hath been recorded in all the Tablets by God's will, and which no veils of contingent beings can obstruct, nor can the opposition of created things impede it, even should they arise against it with swords of steel.   BH02082

Thanks be to the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting Lord that He made the path clear and the proof evident, lit the lamp of the Covenant and caused the star of the Testament to shine upon the horizons, brought round the cup of the Covenant and intoxicated the faithful friends while causing the weak-founded beasts to wander in the wilderness of heedlessness   AB05091

Blessed art thou, O pure, delightful and gentle fruit upon the tree of paradise in the garden of Paradise, in that thou hast remained firm in God's Covenant and Testament, hast grown through the outpourings of the cloud of God's mercy and bounty, hast fulfilled thy pledge and stood fast in thy faith after the pillars of the people of possibility were shaken   AB01186

Then He passed round the cup of the Covenant and caused the lovers to surge and cry out. He raised a clamor throughout all regions and caused the foundations of the people of discord to quake. Now a few deprived ones have cooked up a vain fancy that they might remove this life-giving intoxication from the minds of those inebriated at the feast of the Covenant.   AB06299

Praise be to God that the eternal divine bounty has appeared and the gift of the Ancient Beauty like the rays of the sun has illumined the world. The gates of the Kingdom have opened and the bestowal of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting has become manifest. Thank God that you have received a portion of this new bounty and are partakers of this tree of hope.   AB02285

By God, besides Whom there is no other God! If the friends were to act according to the counsels of the Blessed Beauty, kings would bow down in submission. If the divine friends were to conduct themselves in accordance with the counsels and commandments of the Blessed Beauty, by God besides Whom there is no other God, the necks of kings would bow in submission.  ABU1444

Baha'o'llah, desiring to prevent similar dissensions resulting from the misinterpretation of his words, wrote a book which he entitled Kitab el Ahd (Book of the Covenant). In this book, which is incontestable, being in his own handwriting, he appoints a center of his covenant, who is to be the expounder of the books and the judge between the false and the true.  ABU0047

In previous dispensations, no explicit Covenant was taken from the Supreme Pen. There was no designated person who could be the standard of truth and error... But among the distinctions of this dispensation is that the Blessed Beauty did not leave souls in confusion. He took a Covenant from all and appointed the Center of the Covenant, writing with His own pen.   ABU0736

This beseemeth one who hath quaffed the wine of life from this cup that hath been unsealed by the finger of thy Lord's will, the Almighty, the Supreme, the Self-Subsisting. Beware lest thou transgress the bounds of wisdom among creatures. Thus have We commanded Our servants in various tablets. Verily thy Lord doeth what He willeth through His word "Be" and it is.  BH00257

Turn thou to the light of the Testament, and rejoice at the bounty of the effulgence, and seek shelter under the shadow of the standard of the Covenant. Thou wilt soon find it fluttering on the highest summits of glory, surrounded by the valiant hosts of the angels of heaven and assisted by spiritual armies of great number that proceed from the Supreme Concourse.   AB03587

Today the Guardian of the Covenant is none other than the Blessed Person of the Most Great Name, Who from His Most Glorious invisible Kingdom crushes those who waver through His unseen hosts. Day by day every waverer will be cast down to the lowest hell, while every steadfast one will be assisted by the company of the angels of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting.   AB03025

Gracious God! All know with certitude that the mighty stronghold is the citadel of the covenant and the foundation of others will soon be ruined and destroyed. The sun of the covenant will warm the East and the West in such wise that these bats will become the weakest creatures on earth, and day and night will accompany the wailing and groaning of remorse and regret.  AB03428

Look not to your own power and capability, but rather look to the power of the Abha Kingdom. This power can make a straw into a mountain, deliver souls from the depths of the pit and raise them to the zenith of the moon, cause a mighty tree to grow from a weak seed. The divine Farmer sows a single seed and forms many harvests - this is from the power of divine bounty.  AB01199

the spirit of this age is the Covenant and the Testament of God. It is like the pulsating artery in the body of the world. Speak in your meetings and assemblages about the Testament and the Covenant and invite everyone to the firmness and steadfastness of the Covenant. Know ye this, that if any person is the least doubtful about the Covenant he is immediately cut off.  AB12210

today the greatest power of the world of existence is the power of the Covenant which imparts life and motion to the heart of the universe and is pulsating in the body of the contingent being like unto the pulsation of the artery. The hosts of the Kingdom of Abha are assisting the Covenant and the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse are helping the people of the Testament.  AB12205

The Tree of the Covenant hath been planted in the midst of Paradise, and the holy birds have taken refuge therein. It hath cast its shadow over all humanity, hath blossomed, put forth leaves, borne fruit, and become verdant and flourishing. The sincere ones have been stirred by the fragrance of its flowers, and the minds of the observers have been amazed at beholding it.  AB02837

Glory be to God! That pure heart in the city of Love and these hearts in the prison fortress - what a mighty connection exists between them and what an ancient fellowship is manifest and evident! For the pure spirits who are firm in the Covenant are today the hosts arrayed in the Abha Kingdom. They are one type of life-giving army and one rank of the hosts of salvation.   AB03684

Baha'u'llah dawned from the eastern horizon like the glory of the sun. He renewed the basis of the religions of God, destroyed blind adherence to ancestral forms and established in their stead love and spiritual fellowship so that no strife, discord or hostility remained. This reconciliation of divergent sects is visible and evident. They now live together in love and unity.   ABU0020

Praise be to God that in these years of war, the friends, wherever they were, remained protected. We do not say that in the next world things will become good for you, that Paradise will be given to you. Rather, we say that your affairs here, whenever you enter beneath the shadow of the Covenant, will become good and your worldly affairs will become orderly and well-arranged.  ABU0358


"As for this strong and mighty cord, it is the clear Covenant and the ancient Testament and the great Testament of God" ... "Hold fast to My mighty cord and My clear Covenant and My firm handle and surest means and greatest intermediary and most great instrument"  AB01030


Turn thy face to the Assembly of the Covenant and [hear Him] say: "Salutations and praise be upon you, the fragrances of God be upon you! for that by reason of which ye have awakened from your sleep, arisen from your negligence and heedlessness, aroused from your couches, relied upon your Creator, depended upon your Maker and been kindled with the fire burning in the Spirit on Mt. Sinai"   AB02145

Verily, I say unto thee, the Covenant of God and His Alliance is a Lamp diffusing lights from the Supreme Concourse unto the horizons of the earth and heaven. Whosoever hath this Divine Lamp before his face, his forehead shall glisten with manifest light and his speech shall take effect in all minds and spirits, and God shall assist him by the power which penetrateth the essences of things.  AB08472


If the cup of the Covenant does not intoxicate a soul, how can the wine from the tavern of the horizons affect it? And if the light of the Sun of Truth does not illumine a heart, how can the rays of a lamp dispel the darkness? How can those who are not awakened by the melody of the Book of the Covenant be roused from their pillow of pride by the fragrance of flowers and the morning breeze?   AB01026

Wherefore reflections of the spirit and impressions of the Divine are now mirrored clear and sharp in the deep heart's core. I beg of God to strengthen these spiritual bonds as day followeth day, and make this mystic oneness to shine ever more brightly, until at last all shall be as troops marshalled together beneath the banner of the Covenant within the sheltering shade of the Word of God   AB00189

By the life of God, the Concourse on High in the Most Glorious Kingdom pray for those firm of foot, steadfast in heart to His Covenant which He took in the realm of eternity from the hosts of creation, from the essences of the temples of unity and the realities of the manifestations of detachment in the unseen cloud, and which He mentioned in all scriptures and tablets by His Most Exalted Pen.  AB01280

Since thou hast attained this great bounty as befitteth it, be confident and assured that thou wilt be assisted in all things. Yet be discerning and perceptive, be sagacious and vigilant, that thou mayest comprehend the hints, allusions, innuendos, signs, metaphors and ambiguities of the heedless multitude and protect the Cause of God from all trials, tribulations, calamities and afflictions.   AB00312


After His Holiness Christ His apostles did not rest for one moment and devoted all their energies to the promotion of the Gospel of Salvation. With what greater enthusiasm and sincerity should we serve at the Threshold of Baha'u'llah. If the Apostles did not manifest that Superhuman steadfastness the Cause of Christ would have been disappeared entirely from the face of the earth in its beginning.   ABU2040

And since I am convinced that Thou hast honored me with Thy verses, I know that I was worthy of receiving both finite bounties and infinite gifts. And since its gates were not opened unto me, I bear witness before Thee and before those who testify from Thy presence that this was neither due to the heedlessness of Thy power concerning me, nor to its impotence, nor to my lack of capacity to behold it.  BB00065

Today the stirring power that exhibits itself throughout all regions is the power of the Covenant which, like unto the artery, beats and pulsates in the body of the world. He who is firmer in the Covenant is more assisted, just as ye are manifestly witnessing how firm souls are enkindled, attracted and confirmed. Strive, therefore, day and night that ye may cause the hearts to become firm and resolute.  AB02219

This is the gate of prosperity and this is the path of success. And besides this, O people of Khusaf, the doors are closed, the pens are dried up, and the pages are rolled up. Thank God for having removed the veil by the hand of His Most Faithful Covenant and revealed all things to the God-fearing ones, and bestowed upon the pure ones His Most Glorious Covenant through a trace from His Most Exalted Pen.   AB05915

As to thee--O thou who art confessing the Oneness of God!--rise with all thy power to keep firm in the Testament of God, and firmly believe that, verily, all troops are defeated save those of the Testament and all banners are reversed, save that of the Covenant of God, which will wave over all horizons and will overshadow the hosts of spirit, love and peace, while agitated by the breeze of the favor of God.  AB00917

For He has clearly designated with the Supreme Pen a specific center, so that when any discord arises, reference should be made to that center and that center will remove the discord. Whatever he says is correct, for by explicit command all must turn to that center, and he is the interpreter of the Book. In this case it becomes clear and evident that the power of the Covenant is the solver of difficulties.  AB03100

All those souls who were awaiting to raise the word of opposition and spread the breaths of doubts were disappointed and frustrated, and the divine Covenant, like a luminous sun, illumined and brightened both East and West, to such an extent that all the kings of the earth took the Book of God's Covenant and preserved it in their treasuries, and the fame of this mighty divine Covenant conquered all regions.  AB02695

O Lord! When the pavilions of Thy great glory were raised up and the tabernacle of Thy ancient might was spread, Thou didst gather all Thy servants beneath its ample shade and didst raise the exalted banner of Thy Covenant and the ancient standard of Thy Testament, causing it to wave over the flagpoles of existence and the towers of kings and subjects, that all might gather beneath the shadow of Thy oneness   AB00234

For this firmness constitutes a fountain of living waters, an ark of salvation and an impregnable stronghold of faith among the souls; it is a perspicuous light, the most great Instrument, the Supreme Intermediary between the believers and their Lord. This sign symbolises the Divine Mercy and the banner of God's bestowals among men. It is the Mighty Charter and the Shelter of everlasting security in the world.  AB09429

Thy lamentation and supplication reached the threshold of the peerless Lord and was heard by the dwellers of the Supreme Concourse, and all raised their voices in prayer to the Court of Divine Unity, beseeching that the loved ones in that land might abide beneath the shade of the Tree of Companionship mentioned in the Hidden Words in Persian, and remain firm in their attachment and adherence to God's Covenant.  AB08833

"Praise be to God, in the very midst of great persecution and troubles, the Cause of God was in progress in Persia. But I did not mention this lest it might create an uproar! Thus it is clear that had this not been the Cause of Truth, such events and obstacles would have already extinguished it. But, as this is the Cause of God, it grows in spite of obstacles, and torrents of opposition but intensify its fire."  ABU0279

O thou who art gladdened by the light of the Covenant! The seekers of enlightenment have drawn forth the lights of guidance from the realities of the Covenant, and the horizons have been illumined by that effulgence. Breasts have been dilated through the outpouring of the Covenant of the Sun of Manifestation, and the realities of existence have cried out: "Glory be unto Him Who hath taken this evident Covenant!"  AB09072

Blessed are they who have entered the fortress of My knowledge, soared in the atmosphere of My love, drunk the choice wine of My revelation, and been seized by the intoxication of the wine of My utterance to such extent that they have detached themselves from all else save Me, turned toward My face, advanced toward the horizon of My grace, held fast to the cord of My favor, and clung to the hem of My generosity.   BH00302

Today the lights of confirmation from the Abha Kingdom are shining with utmost brilliance. Whosoever shows firmness in the Covenant, derives illumination from the verses of guidance, turns to the Abha Kingdom, kindles the lamp of the love of God, speaks with eloquent speech and makes fluent utterance - it is certain that they will find all doors opened and witness the outpourings of the Lord of angels and spirit.  AB01738

Judas Iscariot must not be forgotten; The divine sheep must constantly be guarded against devouring wolves; the light of the Cause of God must be protected from contrary winds by means of a chimney; the oppressed fowls must be shielded against the birds of prey; the blooming roses should be saved from the outstretched hands of injustice and the lambs of God must be fortified against the fierceness of ravenous animals.   AB01653

Know thou that when We adorned the Kingdom with the ornament of the name of thy Chosen Lord, the fish in the seas were struck with awe, the fruits fell from the trees, the denizens of the Kingdom of Might were bewildered, the tribes of the human realm lamented, the people of the cities of names were halted, and the pillars of all who are in earth and heaven were shaken, save whom thy Lord, the All-Wise, willed otherwise.  BH01654

The pavilion of glory hath been raised upon the highest summits of the horizons, and the Sovereign of the Covenant hath been established upon the throne of the hearts of the people of effulgence. By God, verily the Covenant of the Lord of Effulgence, the Sovereign of the horizons, ruleth by the leave of the Lord of the Covenant over both East and West. Before it, necks bow down and voices are hushed, and eyes are transfixed.  AB08427

This is indeed the great bounty and the abundant portion. And verily thou, O thou who dost raise the banner of truth and gather those who arise to proclaim firmness in the Covenant, be of good cheer and let thy heart rejoice, for the standard of the Covenant shall wave at the center of all horizons and the sun of the Covenant shall shine with the most intense radiance upon the East and West of the earth. This is an inevitable truth.   AB03571


Soon you will hear the melodies of this Covenant and smell its fragrances from the Supreme Concourse and the Most Glorious Kingdom. Then will arise from you the cry: Glory be to Him Who has taken this mighty Covenant! Glory be to Him Who has taken this firm Testament! Glory be to Him Who has raised this unfurled Banner! Glory be to Him Who has extended this outstretched Shadow! Glory be to Him Who has established this witnessed Witness!  AB02595

The Most Great Ocean of Grandeur - its waves have grown mightier, and the outpourings from the heaven of the All-Merciful have become stronger and more evident. For until now, the cloud of the human temple was preventing the witnessing of the Sun of Truth. But now that Brilliant Moon and that Sun of the Ethereal Sphere is, in truth, rising and shining from the Most Exalted Horizon and the All-Glorious Kingdom, sanctified from all limitations.  AB02019

Despite this, you observe that the East is illumined and the West perfumed. The call is raised and the divine fire is ablaze. If the means were available, consider how the Word of God would create commotion throughout the horizons. In this too there is a penetrating wisdom and a hidden mystery concealed and veiled, so that the power of divine confirmation may become evident and the victory of the hosts of the Abha Kingdom may be made manifest   AB02622

He laid the foundation of obedience and submission upon the Covenant and Testament, establishing it upon solid rock, and encompassed it around creation like an impregnable fortress and mighty citadel, so that the hosts of doubts could not breach it and the waves of intimations could not damage it, and this edifice of God's Cause, this palace of God's bounty, these mighty foundations and lofty castle would remain protected and preserved forever.  AB01696


Victory, in the first instance, is belief in God and recognition of the Dawning-Place of His verses, the Dayspring of His Revelation and the Repository of His all-encompassing knowledge. The servant who is present hath brought a letter from him who is named Mustafa, upon him be the glory of God and His mercy, wherein mention was made of thee. We have made mention of thee with a mention that attracteth the hearts of them that have turned towards God.   BH00362

The lights of unity and the effulgence of oneness have illumined the East and the West, and the radiant lamp of the Covenant hath brightened all horizons. The waves of the Kingdom have submerged the shores of existence, and the clouds of divine favors have poured forth upon all regions. Ere long shall the standard of God's Covenant wave at the axis of possibility, and the manifest morn of ancient glory shall illumine both East and West with its rays.   AB00108

Thy proof hath appeared, Thy sovereignty hath emerged, Thy testimony hath been established, Thy Word hath been perfected, Thy verses have been chanted, Thy mention hath spread, Thy Cause hath been exalted, the might of Thy divine sovereignty hath encompassed all regions, the limbs of creation have trembled from the power of Thy Lordship, and the banner of Thy Covenant hath been raised in the East and the West, waving upon the towers of honor and glory.   AB00078

Say: God hath made My hidden love the key to the Treasure; would that ye might perceive it! But for the key, the Treasure would to all eternity have remained concealed; would that ye might believe it! Say: This is the Source of Revelation, the Dawning-place of Splendour, Whose brightness hath illumined the horizons of the world. Would that ye might understand! This is, verily, that fixed Decree through which every irrevocable decree hath been established.  BH00001

For the divine Covenant is like a pure spring - "this is cool to drink and to bathe in" - and is a healing draught like that of Job: when one immerses oneself therein, one is cleansed and purified of all ailments and afflictions, attaining perfect health. The face blooms like a rose, the heart becomes a jewel from the Badakhshan mine, the soul becomes the companion of Gabriel, the breast becomes Sinai, and the field of consciousness becomes a flower garden of divine grace.  AB07351

Today the world of existence is moved through the Call of the Covenant, and the disjoined members of this earth have found mutual communication. Consider ye that the confusion produced thereby cannot be cleared and the forces cannot be brought together save through the Power of the Testament, and the darkness of the East and the West can only be dispelled through the Sun of the Covenant. The Divine Covenant is like unto the spiritual Springtime, which encircles all creation.   AB00975

"Many persons in the blessed days (i.e., in the time of the Blessed Perfection) were recipients of favors and had numerous long Tablets, but in this day wavered in such a manner that they did not hearken to or obey the divine commandments, and overlooked even the commands revealed in their own Tablets. Yet there are some other souls who have in this day not been addressed in the Day of the Blessed Perfection. This is from the Bounty of God; He grants to whomsoever He willeth."   AB01161

When the divine edifice is made firm and the celestial foundation is established, every dispersion shall be gathered, every outcast shall become intimate with the private chamber of mysteries, and every homeless one shall find a nest and shelter in the Most Glorious Paradise. Otherwise, every bond of unity shall be severed, every door of hardship shall be opened, foundations shall crumble, palaces shall become tombs, and fortresses shall be utterly demolished from their foundations.  AB04171

That which is necessary today is and shall be the service of the Cause. Most people are heedless. All must be educated in such wise that they will not be prevented from the straight path and the clear way by the croaking of the crows. All that was mentioned in the Tablets of the past and future hath ended in this most wondrous and most holy Revelation, and the time of all hath expired, even as the allusions of previous Books have been sent down in the glorious Tablets from the Divine Pen.   BH01412

Through it, souls were gladdened, breasts were dilated, faces beamed with joy, and hearts were quickened. The people of concord arose and called out to the denizens of all regions, passing round the cup of the Covenant in the gathering of radiance. They were intoxicated and inebriated with the wine of divine knowledge, and were made to sway by the wafting of the breezes of acceptance, the shining of the lights of attainment, and the diffusion of the fragrances of thy Lord, the All-Loving.   AB00401

O my God and the Helper of the sincere ones and those who are firm in Thy Covenant and are assured by Thy promise! Aid these, Thy servants, to serve at the threshold of Thy holiness, and make them signs of guidance and stars of piety, shining from the supreme horizon and gleaming from the highest zenith. Make firm their feet that they slip not through the doubts of the people of passion and desire. Verily, Thou preservest whomsoever Thou willest through Thy power that prevaileth over all things.   AB00450

This Covenant is the Covenant of Alast, and this Testament is the Ancient Testament! The armies of the Kingdom of God assist this Covenant, and the hosts of the Concourse on High protect this foundation. It is the continuous and enduring ray of the Sun of Truth and the brilliant lamp of the gathering of the Divine Unity. It is the strong rope and the manifest light. It is the firm handle and the fruit of the blessed tree. It is the Preserved Tablet and the Written Book and the Outstretched Parchment.  AB00988

Praise be unto God that presently the situation has come to a point where we gather with spirituality and love, under the shadow of the Blessed Beauty, on Mount Carmel and in the Shrine of the Bab, with utmost fellowship and affection, with no fear, no danger, no difficulty, no harassment, no opposition, no persecution. This is the power of God. All the monarchs and the nations of the world were our enemies, but now with utmost spirituality and radiance, we are assembled beneath the bounties of Baha'u'llah.  ABU0732

From the beginning of creation until now, no Holy Manifestation among the Divine Manifestations ever elevated His Cause while in the Most Great Prison under chains and fetters during His own day. This occurred in our own time - it is not a tale or narrative that could give rise to the slightest doubt. The Divine Call was raised from the Most Great Prison, the acclaim of God's Cause became world-embracing from the Most Great Prison, and the Divine Call from beneath chains and fetters set the horizons in motion.   AB00079

Today the greatest divine gift is to hold fast to the Covenant and Testament and to grasp the firm handle of the All-Merciful, for the pavilion of God's Cause is upheld by this pillar, and the impregnable fortress of God's religion is preserved and protected by this foundation, and the blessed Tree doth grow and develop through this sweet and flowing water. Were any weakness, God forbid, to occur in this firm foundation, this divine edifice would be completely demolished and this mighty castle would be utterly destroyed.  AB02917

O thou who art gladdened by the light of the Covenant! The seekers of enlightenment have drawn forth the lights of guidance from the realities of the Covenant, and the horizons have been illumined by that effulgence. Hearts have been dilated through the outpouring of the Covenant of the Sun of Manifestation, and the realities of existence have cried out: "Glory be unto Him Who hath taken this manifest Covenant! Glory be unto Him Who hath bound this firm banner! Glory be unto Him Who hath extended this outstretched shadow!"  AB09072

O Trusted One among physicians! Divine medicine has pitched its tents in this plane of existence, and has driven its stakes in its expansive plains and heights. Beneath its supported pavilion sits its All-Merciful Christ and its conscientious Luqman, who have diagnosed the illness of the temple of the human world and have administered the greatest divine antidote - namely, the Ancient Covenant and the Mighty Testament and the Manifest Light - the sole remedy for the sickness of the world and the ills of nations and peoples.  AB10250

Take hold of the Book of God with the strength that proceedeth from Him, then read it with joy and fragrance. Then shalt thou find thyself in manifest gladness. We have seen thy turning towards Us, We have turned towards thee, and We have heard thy call and answered thee through this mighty Book. Blessed are the fingers that have written My verses, the tongue that hath uttered My praise, the eye that hath turned toward My horizon, the heart that hath won My love, and the breast that hath been illumined by My Name, the Mighty, the Wondrous.   BH00450

Let all seize upon the robe of 'Abdu'l-Baha and raise such a melody, showing such firmness and steadfastness, that whether 'Abdu'l-Baha be present or absent, no slackening shall occur in the diffusion of the divine fragrances. Rather, let all surge like the sea and soar like the birds of the Supreme Concourse, so that those who await the death and passing of this servant of the Divine Threshold shall be disappointed and know that the exaltation of the Blessed Cause and the glorification of the Word of God are not dependent upon 'Abdu'l-Baha's survival.   AB00041

This Covenant is neither tradition nor tale - it was established by Baha'u'llah's Supreme Pen with utmost power. Surely if all on earth were to gather and try to create a breach, they would ultimately be frustrated and disappointed, let alone a small handful. The power of the Covenant is like the sun, and those who moved in opposition are like pieces of thin cloud. The Sun of the Covenant dissolves and disperses even the thickest clouds, let alone these imaginary clouds. As you observe, the call of the Covenant is raised in all lands and is in full effect.   AB00536

"Behold the creative power of Baha'u'llah! He brought us from the most remote countries of the East and acquainted us with you. How He has connected our hearts and attracted our spirits to each other and has drawn all under the banner of peace and tranquillity! See how He has delivered us from religious, political, national and racial prejudices and saved us from the gloom of superstitions. Behold what a power this is! Had all the powers of the earth combined they could not have joined the hearts in such a manner but Baha'u'llah has joined all with a single word."  ABU0945

O ye friends and maidservants of the Merciful! The Wine of His Testament is flowing; cause its drops to fall upon your tongues. The anthem of the Kingdom is abroad, let your ears be attuned to its strains. Draw near to the Truth, that ye may inhale the sweet fragrance from its garden, and harken to the Covenant, that ye may be illumined as by ever-burning lights. If your souls be detached, they shall be borne on high to the Kingdom; if ye search earnestly, ye shall find a path to the Holy Threshold; if ye hear His call, then bind yourselves to His Covenant and Testament.  AB00210

By it were the hearts of the people of understanding stirred, and the breasts of the people of guidance were dilated, and the hearts of the faithful soared with joy, and tongues were loosed in praise of the All-Glorious Beauty, inasmuch as He rent asunder the veil and the covering, strengthened all with mighty power, and illumined all regions with the resplendent light from on high through His clear Book of the Covenant and His mighty Charter of the Testament. He made it the Balance of certitude, the Path of faith, the Gift of the All-Merciful, and the Bounty of the All-Glorious.   AB00383

In any case, this spiritual letter is written and sent with the utmost love, kindness and faithfulness, that you may counsel certain souls somewhat, that they should not regard the Cause of God as child's play, nor imagine that the hosts of the Abha Kingdom can be overcome by foolish madness, or that the Eagle of the Covenant can be rendered helpless in the clutches of the sparrow of discord. The brilliant light of the dawn of divine confirmation will not be made to disappear by intense darkness, nor will the bright lamp of manifest verses be extinguished by the whisperings of doubts.  AB05018

But they are heedless and oblivious that this dust and dirt cannot conceal the Sun of the Covenant, and these schemes cannot hide the effulgence of divine destiny, and these barriers cannot hold back the waves of this ocean, and these whirlwinds cannot uproot this blessed tree. Soon souls will be raised up through the bounties of the Most Glorious Kingdom who will brandish the drawn sword of the Covenant upon the body of the horizons, cause the light of the Ancient Covenant to dawn from the horizon of the brow, and raise the standard of the Covenant at the pole of contingent existence.  AB00008

especially since these teachings are reinforced by the Covenant, a Covenant that is the cause of the flame that illumines the horizons, breathes the spirit of life, makes souls luminous, renders them divine, makes them heavenly, makes them shine like candles and gleam like stars. O friends in Paris! Know that no soul becomes alive except through the spirit of the Covenant, no eye becomes illumined except through the light of the Covenant, no ear vibrates except to the melody of the Covenant, and no heart becomes the manifestation of divine inspirations except through the bounty of the Covenant.  AB00903

In short, these souls do think that those affairs will be the means of their progress and fame and will be useful to them and productive of results. But they do not consider that His Holiness Baha'u'llah is the protector of the Covenant. The Branches could not withstand the power of the Covenant and wholly they humiliated themselves. Now what can McNutt do? If the Kings of the world can efface this Covenant, it is better to be effaced. But it is not so! If the armies of the angels of heaven outwardly and visibly descend from the sky and aim to weaken the power of the Covenant they shall utterly fail.  AB04304

"Consider how this oppressed community was in the grip of oppressors in every land, and in times of peace, tranquility and universal comfort, without helper or aid, was captive to every tyrant and afflicted by every calamity. Now, through the assistance and favor of the Ancient Beauty, such a mighty miracle has become manifest and evident - namely that in years when all the peoples of the world were in utmost torment and distress, and ultimate disorder, subjugated, condemned, deprived and unconscious, this oppressed community, through the power of divine teachings and heavenly confirmations, was in perfect rest and tranquility in all inhabited regions."   AB00130

The ocean of joy hath surged and the countenance of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, hath smiled, inasmuch as the Call hath been raised from the Land of ?a unto the Most Exalted Horizon and hath gladdened the dwellers of the Most Glorious Paradise and the Supreme Heaven by the arising of the Hands of the Cause and the Manifestations of Utterance before the Kaaba of God with a clear covenant and firm pledge, that the world and all that dwell therein might be illumined by the light of unity and concord. Exalted, exalted is this most high station! Exalted, exalted is this Covenant through which the scrolls of names have been renewed and the stations of the people of Baha have been elevated among all humanity!  BH01234


Were it not for the protecting power of the Covenant to guard the impregnable fort of the Cause of God, there would arise among the Baha'is, in one day a thousand different sects as was the case in former ages. But in this Blessed Dispensation, for the sake of the permanency of the Cause of God and the avoidance of dissension amongst the people of God, the Blessed Beauty (may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him) has through the Supreme Pen written the Covenant and the Testament; He appointed a Center, the Exponent of the Book and the annuller of disputes. Whatever is written or said by Him is confirmable to the truth and under the protection of the Blessed Beauty He is infallible. The express purpose of this last Will and Testament is to set aside disputes from the world.  AB05591

For thirty years ere His ascension, and in several passages of the Most Holy Book, which doth abrogate and transcend all other books, He established the Path and appointed the Guide in such clear and unmistakable terms as to require no interpretation or elucidation, and stipulated the divine, religious, spiritual, outer and inner obligations of all. For thirty years He thus nursed the children of the Kingdom in the bosom of the Most Holy Book, that these divine obligations and relationships might be deeply engraved upon every heart, and that the stronghold of the Cause of God might become as impervious to intrusion as a mighty and impregnable fortress. He appointed the Interpreter of His perspicuous Book in the clearest terms and made the Centre of His Covenant known to all.  AB00005

But in this Most Great Cycle and Most Mighty Dispensation--the Manifestation of Truth and Rising of the Sun of Reality, which in all aspects excels all other cycles and dawns resplendent over all other ages--in the Most Holy Book, which is supreme over all books, scriptures and psalms, and all that is mentioned therein abrogates all previous scriptures and books--even its commandments, laws, pronouncements and declarations abrogate all incompatible commandments and inconsistent laws, save for such ordinances and laws as are not mentioned in that Holy Divine Book--in such a clear Book and certain Psalms, He has explicitly stated, without interpretation or allusion, and has emphasized, clarified and expounded in the Book of the Covenant by the Most Exalted Pen, so that the seat of authority in this Most Great Cycle might become clear and evident, leaving no room for any soul to hesitate, dispute or differ   AB00180
