
The vibration of the Manifestation has set Mount Sinai in motion.  BH08893

The Manifestation of the Cause hath come with the dominion of might and power  BH09935

by Thy Cause through which Thou hast subdued the world and guided the peoples  BH07949

The Kingdom on this Day belongeth unto God, the One, the All-Compelling   BH04682

In His Name, the One Who has dominion over all who are on earth and in heaven!  BH07075

The trees hear My call in the morning and the evening, at nightfall and at dawn.  BH10961

The Cause has been manifested in such wise that the horizons are illumined thereby  BH06642

His light, His glory and His sovereignty over the dwellers of the heavens and earth  BH04385

yet His spirit is in joy and delight through the love of God. Nothing can sadden Him  BH09248

This is a mighty, mighty Cause which the hosts of earth and heaven cannot withstand   BH05713

wields power over Thy servants, and holds sway over those in Thy earth and Thy heaven  BH09375

He hath appeared in such wise that none denieth it save every heedless and remote one.   BH05503

"There is none other God but Him, and verily He hath appeared with a mighty sovereignty"   BH08782

by Whose light the earth was illumined and by Whose manifestation the heaven shone forth   AB01633

Today, through the blessing of the Most Holy Name, the world appeareth as paradise itself.  BH07547

the Dayspring of the Cause appeared with a sovereignty that encompassed all created things   BH07064

Through a single letter from Him was everything created with the ornament of luminous glory   BH04148

Soon shall all things be stirred by this breeze that wafteth from the direction of the Robe   BH03736

Before Him necks bowed down, heads were humbled, faces were subdued, and voices were hushed.  AB04252

Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest through Thy word 'Be' and it is   BH06446

through Whom most of those on earth were thunderstruck and the mountains were crushed to dust  BH08457

We have arisen to promote the Cause in such wise that neither ranks nor hosts could deter Us.  BH06820

power of the Manifestation of God: "The Sun of Reality has risen and illumined the horizons."  AB04079

whereby God hath subdued the cities of the hearts of them that are endued with understanding.   BH08682

The Cause of God has been and shall ever remain triumphant, and there is no escape for anyone   BH04371

An innate proof, and a command-based demonstration, and an evidence based on My luminous Beauty  BH11562

this Name through which the Most Great Ocean was set in motion and the Sun of Grace shone forth  BH06539

The Day is come and all sovereignty belongeth unto God, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting   BH10892

We have revealed for each and every one that which cannot be equaled by the treasuries of kings.  BH11669

The Lord of Names hath come with a Cause against which all the armies of the world cannot prevail  BH03852

He caused commotion throughout all regions and brought earthquake to the pillars of the universe   AB07497

Through Whom every hidden matter hath been revealed and every wise remembrance hath come to light.   BH07197

when the All-Merciful came with a sovereignty that encompassed all who are in the heavens and earths  BH08203

Do not worry about our business. There is a God who will protect it from all outside encroachments.   ABU0296

I have manifested My Cause before the faces of My creation with a power that has shaken the pillars.   BH08599

Verses like rain, nay greater, are continually streaming down and descending, encompassing the world.  BH00048

Now, praise be to God, the trees of this Revelation are adorned with the fruits of love and knowledge.  BH09151

The horizons of the hearts of the friends are illumined by the lights of the Luminary of Manifestation   BH10562

Verily, He, from within the Most Great Prison, summoneth the peoples unto God, the Revealer of verses.   BH08914

Thus hath the Cock of the Throne crowed before the Face with the verses of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH08229

The Dayspring of Divine Revelation is come, endowed with a sovereignty that hath encompassed the worlds!  BH08038

Praise be to Him who hath revealed Himself so gloriously that His light has through all creation shined.  BH02115

from the precincts of the Prison He calleth you unto God and biddeth you to that which is better for you   BH07018

He hath manifested that which was hidden in the veils of the Unseen and concealed from hearts and minds.   BH06712

He hath illumined the world with the splendors of the revelation of the Most Great Name with supreme joy   BH05088

With what power You have made the proud ones the captives of love and have united the East with the West!  ABU3025

He possesseth a Name which, were He to cast it upon poison, would transform it into the Most Great Antidote  BH03005

it is the Most Great Protection for the preservation of him whom God hath willed, the Lord of all the worlds  BH11170

the Blessed Beauty, in Whom all signs and power and might and greatness and divine attributes were manifest   AB12097

Blessed is the servant who has inhaled the fragrance of My garment and clung to the hem of My loving-kindness  BH11147

that Cause which, when it appeared, caused the pillars to tremble and the mountains to pass away like clouds   BH07246

Whosoever reads his book must of a necessity acknowledge the superiority of the divine vision of Baha'u'llah.  ABU2515

There is no doubt that this can be accomplished if a man be on the part of God, but alone he can do nothing.   ABU1151

All things are captive in the grasp of His power and all the wealthy are poor at the threshold of His riches.   BH02038

God Who manifested Himself and uttered a Word whereby all who are in the heavens and earth were thunderstruck   BH05260

The penetration of His Word and the potency of influence must be so great as to humble even his worst enemies.  ABU1402

The Cause of God hath appeared and the earth hath been illumined with the light of God, the Lord of all worlds   BH09529

Verily, He is the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth, and in His grasp are the reins of all things.   BH09067

Verily, It has soared unto God, and unto Him is Its return and resting-place, if you be of those who know.  BH00936

"He Who is remembered has come with a Cause before which all who are in the heavens and earth shall not stand."   BH08039

By God! This is He at Whose walking the Kingdom of God walketh behind Him, and the Spirit proclaimeth before Him  BH03549

His coming with God's authority and His proof, and God's evidence and His might, and God's power and His grandeur  BH08900

The Book has been revealed, verses are witnessed, and divine commandments and laws are present before all faces.   BH02547

We have built for thee from the iron rods of utterance that which will not be altered by the vicissitudes of time   BH07323

Glorified be He Who speaketh the truth and summoneth all unto His Self, the One Who hath dominion over the worlds.   BH10270

Verily, He hath appeared after the Qa'im with a Cause before which all who are in earth and heaven shall not stand.   BH11161

He hath come with the truth, with signs from His presence, that He might guide you to His resplendent horizon.   BH09701

He quickeneth whom He willeth through His grace, and unto Him shall all return. His is the creation and the command   BH01975

Because of your spiritual receptivity God hath sent me to Stuttgart in order to proclaim the Kingdom of Baha'u'llah.  ABU2969

This is a Day wherein the divine Lote-Tree calleth out with Its most exalted voice unto Its servants and handmaidens   BH07149

by God, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting, I would send but two men who would chase them all to the gates of Karbila.  BHU0027

Through His complete power and conquering might, hath transformed the prison of 'Akka into the Most Exalted Paradise.   BH02044

"Powerful art Thou to do Thy pleasure. No God is there but Thee, the All-Glorious, Whose help is implored by all men."   BH04231

In this Revelation there hath appeared what hath never appeared before. Blessed are they who are endowed with insight.   BH06767

He hath come from the horizon of power with sovereignty that hath encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH05268

He is the Summoner, He is the Bearer of Glad-Tidings, He is the Lord of Names and the Sovereign Who does what He wills.   BH02804

The clamor of the people doth not prevent Him from that which He desireth, nor doth the croaking of those in the lands.   BH10311

Baha'u'llah teaches him so well that after a few months Azziz will become well-known for his extraordinary intelligence.  ABU2005

The Promise hath come to pass, and the Promised One calleth aloud before all faces, yet most of the people perceive not.   BH09980

Today the Sun of Truth hath risen from the horizon of the heaven of God's Will, and its rays have encompassed the world.   BH06918

"The fragrances of Thy love have thereby been wafted over Thy cities and have encompassed all the dwellers of Thy realm."  BH05715

The more they increased in opposition, the more We increased in manifestation, to spite them. Thus was the matter decreed   BH02047

It was from this sure and certain knowledge He spoke, when He said: 'All power is given unto Me, in Heaven and in earth'.   ABU1175

They are indeed God's proof amidst His creation, His evidence unto His creatures, and His testimony unto all in His kingdom.  BH03352

whose exalted, most glorious mention spread to all regions, whose supreme, most high Cause shone forth among the noble ones   BH02189

Neither prison can withhold Him from God, nor can the hosts of earth frighten Him. He is, verily, the Strong, the Trustworthy.  BH09536

By the "Cloud of Mercy," the heat and the light of the Sun, and by the life-giving breeze this divine gardener is strengthened.  ABU1555

while He was a prisoner in the Most Great Prison, He raised up this mighty Cause and created a great commotion in East and West   AB05119

The promise hath come to pass, and the Lord of Eternity hath appeared with a sovereignty before which all the hosts cannot stand   BH10108

Verily He is the Ruler over whatsoever He willeth. There is no God but Him, the Giving, the Most High, the Mighty, the Generous.   BH08642

Were He to move, with Him would move the hosts of the unseen, then the Concourse on High, then the realities of all worlds.   BH06776

We have, with the hands of power, unsealed the choice sealed wine of immortality - drink thou of it in My Name, the All-Powerful.   BH08338

This is a Day wherein the Word hath appeared in the form of a human being and calleth all unto the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH00884

And if thou asketh about the proofs of the sovereignty of the Abha Beauty, they are rising from the horizon of the placeless realm  AB06222

Although to all outward appearance the Blessed Perfection was an exile, yet he moved with such power and manifested such majesty!   ABU1533

Verily We have manifested the Cause and sent down the Book as a grace from before Us, and We are in truth the Ancient Sender-down.   BH09564

otherwise, by Him Who causeth My tongue to speak His praise, We could have subdued all who are on earth with but one word from Him   BH05370

He is of them who witnessed and beheld the greatest signs of their Lord...at Whose appearance the verses bowed down in submission.   BH03877

Through Him the divine fragrances wafted and the breeze passed by and the sovereignty of God was made manifest in all else than Him   BH10602

"I walk at all times before all who dwell in the realm of possibility. I see and I hear, and I am the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing."   BH03521

My hair is My Messenger. It is calling aloud at all times upon the branch of Fire within the hallowed and luminous garden of Paradise   BH10832

Blessed is the soul that hath attained unto the Word of God - verily it is among the most exalted of creation in the Preserved Tablet.  BH10113

All things are established through My Will, as they were established before, and none comprehend this save those possessed of insight.  BH05148

This is a Day the like of which the eye of creation hath not seen. Abandon what ye possess and turn unto God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH04789

By God! The All-Merciful hath come with such a proof as all who are in the heavens and on earth cannot withstand, did ye but know.  BH07017

Tribulation shall not deter Us from that which We have purposed, nor shall destiny prevent Us from that which We have been bidden.   BH09463

My Most Exalted Pen beareth witness... We have manifested Our Self and revealed that which draweth hearts unto the Most Sublime Horizon   BH02917

Rejoice thou that the Most Great Ocean hath turned towards thee from this remote station and calleth thee unto God, purely for His sake.  BH11795

Consider the loftiness of this Cause, its exaltation, its glory and its station, and then observe the baseness of these ignorant people.  BH00074

"So in such a state how can you resist Baha'u'llah Who fears neither kings nor governments, but rather stands against the whole world?"   ABU1596

when the appointed hour arrived He appeared through the power of Truth, and toward Him have turned the sincere ones from every direction   BH08874

By God! Through a movement of His finger all things were drawn unto Him. Thus was the decree ordained, if ye be of them that understand.   BH02538

Verily thy Lord is not prevented by anything from anything... Such is God's way among His servants and His sovereignty over His creation.   BH03255

the cry of all things was raised in remembrance of this Remembered One, through Whom the mountains and the seas and the trees have spoken   BH11193

Do people think that the Remembrance seeth not their deeds? Nay, for He is the Witness from God, their Lord, over all the worlds together.  BB00002

We have sent down the Command and expounded the verses that perchance men may ponder upon God's sovereignty and His firm and mighty Cause.   BH09033

Although the divine hand of change and transformation is encompassing and engaged, yet verily We have veiled the people with a mighty veil.  BH01841

The Truth has appeared and made manifest what He desired. He, verily, is the Powerful One Whom the conditions of creation have not hindered   BH05680

The Breath of God awakened Him and commanded Him to raise His voice. When He awoke, He arose and called all to God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH04596

That Light of Truth - its outpouring is all-encompassing and its grace is perfect, whether in the Day of Manifestation or after its setting.  AB07279

Glorified be He Who hath sent down the names and ordained for them whatsoever He desired. He, verily, is the Omnipotent over what He willeth   BH05398

He spoke at the beginning of His Manifestation through this Name, whereby God shed His radiance upon all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH09454

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath come with the Most Great Name, verily He is the Lord of all worlds.   BH07138

And 'Ali came with the truth, and with Him were clear signs, a single letter of which would suffice all who are in the heavens and the earth.   BH01775

Through the tongue of His own Manifestations He has given the glad-tidings of the appearance of the Most Great Name to all who are in the world  BH10556

Verily the Cause is in the grasp of My power. We mention whomsoever We wish, as We wish, and We bestow upon whomsoever We desire what We desire.  BH01044

As for my power, it is an outpouring from the outpourings of Baha'u'llah. He is my supporter. He is my light of guidance. He is my fire of love   AB04829

He is, in truth, the Dawning-Place of divine revelation, the Dayspring of inspiration, the Quickener of bones, and with Him lieth the final word   BH08288

Verily Thou art the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest, and in Thy grasp are the reins of all things, of the former and latter generations.   BH03862

"Reflect upon the Revelation of God and His sovereignty, and that which hath appeared from Him on this Day whereat the Concourse on High rejoiced"  BH04893

"Ask whatsoever ye please. Powerful is He to do what He willeth. Nothing whatsoever, be it of the past or of the future, can frustrate His Will."   BH01822

"What can earthly power do against celestial might? And what can contingent darkness accomplish against divine light? This has been tried before."  AB05730

But ponder and consider how, though He be Lord of the Invisible Realm, the rays of His benediction still shine unceasingly upon this nether world.  AB06241

That which had never appeared in the world hath appeared, and the divine fragrance hath wafted, and the breeze hath blown, and the Ark hath sailed   BH03126

He hath appeared in the temple of the Youth... around Him circle the Kingdom of God, and before Him march the hosts of the unseen in mighty array.   BH01876

The tumult of the world ariseth from the curling locks of the Beloved, and the quaking of the nations from the power of the revelation of the Lord.  AB09187

observe what the power and influence of the Blessed Beauty has accomplished - that the truth of the Seal of the Prophets is proven in great churches  AB02617

He hath arisen to promote the Cause of God in such wise that none on earth can turn Him back, nor can the might of any froward oppressor disturb Him   BH03494

This is not possible through human power. This is possible through the dominion of the Kingdom. It is possible through the Breath of the Holy Spirit.  ABU1049

He Who speaketh is verily the Dawning-Place of revelation and the Rising-Point of inspiration. To this beareth witness My tongue and My wondrous pen.   BH10836

Despite the tribulations that surround Me, My Most Exalted Pen hath not ceased, and moveth at all times in celebration of God, the Lord of all names.   BH01540

But with one burning effulgence from the Dawning-Place of the unseen Kingdom, He so dissolved and scattered those dense clouds that minds were amazed   AB03004

I beseech Thee, O my God, before Whose fear the limbs of all names have trembled, and before Whose might all who are in earth and heaven have been shaken.   BH01724

He speaketh at all times: This is your Lord, the All-Merciful, Who hath come with the truth. Turn unto Him with your hearts and be not of the heedless ones   BH05910

The verses have encompassed all directions and the Day-Star of proof hath shone forth from the horizon of the Pen of the will of your Lord, the All-Merciful.  BH03188

Your belief will never increase Us nor will your rejection decrease Us, and all who are in the heavens and earth today are but as a handful of aged clay   BH03464

In the midst of tribulations and afflictions We summoned the servants to the most exalted horizon, and when the Light of God's Cause shed some of its radiance   BH08148

"All matters end in the Self of God Who hath appeared in truth with supreme sovereignty over all created things, and around Him circle the hosts of revelation"  BH05549

O people! Believe in Him through Whom the earth and heaven were illumined, and Who hath established Himself upon the Throne which no vision can perceive.   BH03561

These, verily, are of the people of Baha, as attested by the Lord of Names in this Most Glorious Prospect, and beyond Him every fair-minded and perceiving one   BH03381

Today the manifestation of grace makes an atom into a sun, and the radiance of the revelation of the lights of the Most Great Name makes a drop into an ocean.   BH02979

through which the fragrance of the All-Merciful hath been wafted to all regions and the standard of "Verily, I am God, the Lord of all worlds" hath been raised   BH10105

At His right hand marcheth the Kingdom of divine knowledge and at His left hand the Realm of utterance, and before Him the hosts of revelation and inspiration.   BH01810

The Mount speaks and says: "Blessed am I in that I have attained unto Him Who conversed with Him Who guided Moses to the path of God, the Lord of all creation."   BH06940

This indeed is He through Whom hath shone forth the sun of grandeur and power, through Whom the Cause of God hath become renowned throughout all else besides Him  BH04143

Through Him the valley of Mecca overflowed and the mouth of the Hijaz smiled, and through Him was raised the standard of Truth and lowered the banner of metaphor   BH03780

Now the people of truth cry out that the divine light has illumined the horizons and the divine call has reached the ears of East and West from the Tree of Truth.  AB04441

through Whom the tribes of the earth were seized with trembling, and all who are in the heavens were thunderstruck, save whom God, the Lord of the worlds, did will  BH09419

Though ye see Him vanquished, by My life He is the Victor over all who are in the heavens and earth. And though ye see Him subjugated, He is in truth the Subduer.   BH03878

Among the miracles which distinguish this sacred Dispensation is this, that women have evinced a greater boldness than men when enlisted in the ranks of the Faith.  AB11556

Verily the Self-Subsisting hath appeared with the truth and hath arisen to fulfill His Cause with a sovereignty that neither doubts nor idle fancies can frustrate.   BH08045

He Who conversed on Sinai hath seated Himself upon the throne of Revelation in a spot which God hath made the Dayspring of Light and the Dawning-place of His signs   BH02171

Yet in all conditions the scratching of the Pen was heard and the Call was raised. The heedlessness of the world did not prevent the Ancient Beauty from His purpose   BH04602

The Promised One hath come with a sovereignty that hath conquered the realms of meaning and utterance, and with a power before which no power in the world can stand.  BH03187

I am a lamp of the love of God and a star of truth and reconciliation...souls will be educated and arise to fulfill the divine teachings and spread the Spirit of God  AB03721

The light of Christ was like unto the light of the Sun. He was the center, the reservoir, the power-house of illumination, but others received their light from him.   AB03068

The Day of Resurrection hath come, and in it the Self-Subsisting One of Names hath arisen with a sovereignty that encompasseth all who are in the heavens and on earth  BH08315

Verily He strengtheneth whom He willeth and aideth whom He pleaseth and loveth him who loveth Him and remembereth in His kingdom him who remembereth Him on His earth   BH02974

When the gate of heaven was opened and the Lord of Names appeared, agitation seized all in the realms of creation save those whom the hand of grace had taken hold of.   BH08924

This is the Day whereon the Rock crieth out with the loudest voice: "Hasten with your hearts to the direction of the Beloved, O ye who are endued with understanding!"   BH08057

He is the One through Whom the greatest panic appeared amongst mankind and the Lord of Destiny spoke forth: "There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Bestower."  BH04902

On this Day there is no refuge for any soul, no haven for anyone, save beneath My shadow. Thus hath the command been sent down from the heaven of a glorious Name.  BH11770

What greater honor can be imagined than the honor conferred by the Tongue of the Ancient of Days when He calleth to remembrance His loved ones in His Most Great Prison?  BH05002

By God! The breezes of the All-Merciful have wafted from the direction of the All-Glorious, and by them are attracted the hearts of all who have believed and fear God.   BH04292

Come forth that thou mayest hear and see that He hath appeared with a sovereignty before which every discerning mystic and every informed scholar hath bowed down.   BH02598

This is the reality of the situation - no seeker has the right to test. The Sought must test the seeker. The teacher must test the student, not the student the teacher.  AB02462

If the world did not have capacity, there would not have been a Revelation. The very fact of Revelation is proof of capacity, from which magnificent results will appear  ABU2839

Should the light of this station, even less than an atom thereof, be shed upon the world, all would exclaim: "This is from God's bounty, the Most High, the Most Great!"   BH10265

God testifies that there is no God but Him and that He Who came upon clouds of light with the name of 'Ali is His Manifestation and His sovereignty over all the worlds.   BH09422

"His tongue speaketh in remembrance of God, His feet move toward the Intended One, His Pen moveth to mention Him, and with His finger He moveth the thread of existence."   BH07290

The Light that shines within me can neither wax nor wane. Whatever I manifest is nothing more or less than the measure of the Divine glory which God has bidden me reveal.  BH11452

But now whenever they mention your names all become glad and happy. How different it is that it has become so. See and realize the power of BAHA'U'LLAH, what he has done.  ABU1857

He hath come with truth and stood before the faces of the world, speaking as He willeth, such that no thing among all things, nor the might of princes, could prevent Him.   BH02626

by His divine power, rent asunder the dense veils of contingent beings and, despite the opposition of the flies, established Himself unveiled and unhindered upon the throne  BH06514

Hearken to the call of the Quickener of the world from the direction of His Most Great Prison. Verily, there is none other God but Him, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH06059

He is the Mystery in the squared line, mystical round about the Fire in truth, and in the first solution, Hebrew, having been witnessed in every Book round about the Water.  BB00002

All kinds of people were received by Him and they were in turn impressed with his knowledge and wisdom. Day and night, Baha'u'llah labored till new conditions were created.  ABU0775

The verses have been sent down and the evidences have appeared, and the sealed wine has been unsealed by the finger of God, the Omnipotent, the Supreme, the Self-Subsisting.   BH03520

When the sun casts its rays, the glory of both worlds draws aside the curtain in the chamber of the friends, and leadership of the assembly of the righteous becomes manifest.  AB07978

Look not upon creatures and their works, but rather upon the Truth and His sovereignty. Thus hath the matter been decreed from before God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH11054

The essence of praise befitteth Him Who is the Lord of Names, Who hath illumined the Most Great Horizon with one of His names and guided His servant 'Ali-Qabli-Akbar unto it.   BH01127

"He that directed himself hither, and attained unto the presence of his Lord, made mention of you before the throne, whence We have made mention of you as a bounty on Our part"  BH01705

I have summoned the people unto naught save Thy Lord and the Lord of the worlds, and for His love I have encountered that, the like of which the eyes of creation have not seen.  BH00038

Then from behind them another countenance called out and said: "Can imprisonment be imposed upon the Almighty?" Say: "Yea, by my Lord, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling!"   BH05309

The entire world was brought from nothingness into being for this blessed Day, yet heedlessness and pride have prevented all from hearkening to the call of the Speaker on Sinai.  BH00030

He hath come from the heaven of the Divine Command, with the standards of the Bayan on His right hand and the hosts of revelation with the banners of divine knowledge on His left   BH06600

He is the One before Whom boweth down in adoration whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is on earth, and verily He is the Ever-Living, the All-Compelling, the Best-Beloved.  BB00004

Do ye dispute with Him Who hath come from the Dayspring of the Cause with power and sovereignty? He hath indeed beheld such signs of His Lord as cannot be described in words.   BH05763

He hath come with an authority before which armies cannot stand. He hath appeared and made manifest, and hath willed through His command that pervadeth all that is seen and unseen.   BH05747

My manifestation is My proof, and that which floweth from My pen is the evidence of My Self. Thus was it sent down in truth on that day from the heaven of sublime and exalted glory.   BH01057

During fifty years the Manifestation withstood all nations of the earth. Though all nations were against him and contradicted him, they were always submissive and humble before him.   ABU2105

When anyone raiseth a call, We answer him, though We have prescribed for every soul that when he heareth, he should say: "Here am I, O God of all who are in the heavens and on earth!"  BH10340

He hath come with the truth, and through Him the pillars of polytheism have quaked, the edifice of unbelief hath been shaken, and the faces of those near unto God have been illumined.  BH08041

Through Him were revealed the names and attributes, and through Him were raised the standards of Divine unity in the most exalted station and the banners of power in the highest places   BH10107

The Beloved hath appeared in manifest glory, and before Him march the hosts of divine revelation and inspiration, while behind Him advance the hosts of the unseen with upraised standards   BH02632

Verily there is no God but Him, the Single, the One, the Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise...Verily Thou art God, there is no God but Thee, the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Praised   BH08527

He is the Powerful One Whom the creation of the first and the last cannot prevent from His Will, and Whom the sovereignty and might of the hosts of rulers and ranks of divines cannot hinder.  BH01874

The attraction of the Chosen One hath seized all lands and the righteous in this noble station - they who believed in God when He came into the world with His mighty and impregnable Kingdom.   BH07245

How can the influence of their good word over many centuries become the cause of transformation of character, improvement of attributes, refinement of conduct and unity of different peoples?   ABU0707

It was said, "This unknown person is a most remarkable person, is exceedingly learned, is possessed of a tremendous power, and has a colossal force." All Kurdestan was magnetized by his love.   ABU2412

He hath stood before the faces of the world and summoned all unto the All-Informed One...with a sovereignty that the hosts could not repel, with a might that the power of kings could not weaken   BH11157

Know this for a certainty. The darkness will not be dispelled except through the light of Baha'o'llah, and this tribulation cannot be calmed save through the tranquility bestowed by Baha'o'llah.   ABU0750

His fame has conquered the world and His voice resounds repeatedly from the ethereal sphere. His radiance shines forth and His meteor blazes. His star has risen and His planet flashes and gleams.   AB03728

The fragrances of the All-Merciful from this Paradise which hath appeared in the temple of man have indeed wafted over all the worlds, and through them are the bodies of all created things revived   BH09048

We sent down the Revealer of the Bayan to give glad tidings to all contingent beings of this Day wherein the Rock hath cried out: "The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting!"  BH08321

Verily Thou art He Who hath ever been independent of all else but Thyself and will continue to be what Thou hast been from time immemorial. There is none other God but Thee, the Mighty, the Exalted.   BH05911

I was seated when the Command of God raised Me up, and I was silent when He Who hath caused all things to speak forth the praise of His Self, the All-Subduing Lord of all horizons, gave Me utterance.  BH08083

Mine eyes have witnessed what no eye among all creation hath witnessed, and Mine ears have heard what the ears of men in former ages have not heard. Thy Lord, the All-Informed, bears witness to this.   BH10699

Although in this Manifestation all signs of power, manifest proofs, wondrous verses, glorious manifestations and divine attributes have appeared - and all this as a grace from Us to all created things  BH11742

Then afterward, the leaf was turned and the combined will of the Roman and Greek emperors and philosophers could not stamp out the Power of Christ. Like a mighty torrent everything was swept before it.  ABU1889

that My power and sovereignty might be made manifest to all who are in the heavens and on earth. He does what He pleases and ordains what He wills. He is the Single One, the One, the Just, the All-Wise.   BH05890

By God, besides Whom there is none other God! Not a single atom moveth upon the earth save through the will and command of the Ancient Beauty, and nothing ever hath been or ever shall be hidden from Him.  BH00814

the power of Baha'u'llah makes manifest the heat of the love of God - that is, the latent power hidden in hearts - and expands the sphere of thoughts, bestows enlightenment, and shows the path of guidance  ABU2229

In brief, I hold within My grasp whatsoever any man might wish of the good of this world and of the next. Were I to remove the veil, all would recognize Me as their Best Beloved, and no one would deny Me.   BB00262

Look at His disciples! They were poor and uncultured men. Out of the rough fisherman He made the great Peter, and out of the poor village girl of Magdala He made one who is a power in all the world today.   ABU2200

Strive, O people of the world, that there may be sent down from the Supreme Pen that which shall preserve your names, your spirits and your stations in a Book which none hath known save God, the Lord of Lords.   BH09899

if but an atom receives the grace of the heat of that Sun, it will set the world of contingent being in motion and will manifest such an appearance in its rays as to become the ornament of the world of creation  AB06062

The ignorant said, 'Who is this individual; He has only a few disciples!' But those who knew said: 'He is the Sun who will shine in the East and West, He is the Manifestation who shall give life to the world'.   ABU0619

The All-Merciful hath come with proof and evidence, in such wise that neither the clash of the swords of enemies, nor the neighing of the steeds of the mighty ones, nor the croaking of the divines can deter Him.  BH10545

The Wronged One was silent - the Will of God, the Powerful, the Mighty, caused Him to speak. He was still - the Hand of Divine Grace moved Him, by the command of the Strong, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Great.   BH06249

He has appeared in truth with a sovereignty that none can deny save those who have denied God and His chosen ones among the Prophets and Messengers... The Creator of all things hath come with mighty sovereignty.  BH02660

Thou art, verily, the Lord of the Throne and of the dust, and in Thy grasp is the control of names, and in Thy right hand are the reins of all things. There is none other God but Thee, the Mighty, the Beautiful.   BH03748

Tribulation shall never prevent Me from the remembrance of thy Lord, the Most Exalted, the All-Highest, even as it prevented Me not aforetime. Verily thy Lord is the All-Powerful, the Most High, the All-Knowing.   BH05971

In this Revelation there hath appeared what hath never appeared before nor will appear hereafter. My Most Exalted Pen beareth witness to this, as doth that which hath appeared through My firm and mighty Command.   BH00484

By God! If thou wert to arise for the love of God and His servant, God would assist thee against all who are on earth. Verily, there is no God but Him. He aideth whom He willeth through His word "Be," and it is!   BH00431

The Blessed Beauty commanded that they must be found...They commanded it must be found...They commanded that the mukhtar be imprisoned...They commanded "Bring the mules - be under whoever's protection you want."   ABU2051

The call of the invisible Kingdom of Abha is raised from on high, and His aid and favor encompass every needy servant. His celestial power is penetrating, and the arteries of the body of the horizons are pulsing.  AB07451

And We departed in such glory as the eyes of them that are nigh unto God had never beheld the like. Thereupon did the eyes of the denizens of Paradise weep, and the dwellers of heaven and earth were thunderstruck   BH08329

It would enter through every door and climb over every transgressor's wall. It would expose forbidden spying and melt the acceptable snow-capped mountains. It would dry up useless plants and wither rootless trees.  AB00668

By My life! All else will not suffice thee. That which will suffice thee is this Ocean, every drop of which proclaimeth "I am the Enricher of the worlds, the Subduer of the worlds, and the Quickener of the worlds."   BH04369

O My Name! By God! Whosoever possesseth vision and a heart will testify that the eye of time hath never witnessed the like of this Manifestation and shall never witness its like throughout the eternity of thy Lord.   BH01391

By Him Who speaketh within my breast! Were all who are in the heavens and earth to turn today unto God, He would teach them from the wonders of His knowledge that which would make them independent of all the worlds.  BH00006

Thus, the meaning of 'heaven' is the greatness of the Cause and eminence and might of the Manifestation of God Who spreads this divine Cause by His heavenly power and divine strength and not through material means.   ABU2982

Every act of the Blessed Beauty constitutes in itself a consummate proof. In one of my early writings I wrote that in the eyes of the possessors of insight the doings of Him Who is the Sovereign Truth have no equal.  ABU2440

He hath created all things for His mention and praise... Him Who created all things by His binding, wise command... Him through Whom the decree of the appointed time was established between the heavens and the earth.   BH02673

And I am, verily, powerful over whatsoever I will. There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Great. We have manifested that which lay hidden in knowledge and concealed in the Books of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH05606

We were with thee when thou didst speak forth this Name whereby the backs of the wicked were broken. Say: O people! Verily He is with whosoever maketh mention of Him and beholdeth whosoever aideth Him through utterance  BH04853

As man depends on his elements and the brain in particular, so the "Sent Prophets or Manifestations" are like the brain of a planet, they cannot live without the help from this highest source or element of their beings.  ABU3233

The pillars of the divines were shaken by this Youth, and the limbs of the peoples trembled at this Great Name. He spoke, while seated upon the Throne: "There is no God but I, the Most High, the Mighty, the Inaccessible."  BH08073

We have stood before the faces of the world for successive years and called all to the Most Exalted Horizon without veil or covering. The power of the world has not frustrated Me, nor has the might of nations prevented Me.  BH02227

Think ye that the Most Great Ocean can be prevented from its waves, or the Cloud of Grace from its rain, or the Tree of Holiness from its fruits? Nay, by the Lord of the worlds! Nothing can prevent it from what ye possess   BH01478

If they only knew, they would turn to the horizon of the Cause. We do not say they should become believers, but with even a slight inclination and attraction they would receive divine confirmations and heavenly assistance.  ABU3273

"Shouldst Thou dismiss the entire company of the followers of the Bayan in the Day of the Latter Resurrection by a mere sign of Thy finger even while still a suckling babe, Thou wouldst indeed be praised in Thy indication."  BB00550

We manifested might when We were in the depths of abasement, and appeared with power and evident sovereignty. We departed from Iraq in such wise that necks were bowed before the name of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing   BH05828

The throne hath been established and upon it hath been seated the Ancient Beauty, Who hath called out in the most exalted voice among the nations: "Verily, there is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed."   BH00985

For were that Ancient Beauty to appear and manifest Himself as He truly is, none would have the power to deny or turn away. Rather, all created things would be thunderstruck by beholding His lights, nay utterly annihilated.   BH00958

Their influence and power are immeasurable and unlimited. One heavenly Personage has developed many nations. For example, Jesus Christ, single and unassisted, educated the Roman, Greek and Assyrian nations and all of Europe.  ABU0109

This is the Day whereon the branches have been scattered, and the mountains have passed away, and the heaven hath been cleft asunder, and the earth hath been rent in twain through the fear of God, the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH05749

By thy life! My Cause is more wondrous than the Cause of Muhammad. God hath raised Me up among those who cannot speak a fluent word of Arabic, much less recite verses from God whereby He proveth His Cause unto all the worlds.  BB00004

I will send thee to America, but I will send thee with such a power as to astonish the people and amaze the beholders. The Favors of the Blessed Perfection will encircle thee and His Graces will descend upon thee incessantly   ABU1186

The signs of this most exalted station and the manifestations of this most sublime summit are now hidden, due to the weakness of sight. But ere long the Luminary of Will shall emerge from behind the clouds and become manifest.  BH04566

"Verily, Thou art He Who manifesteth whatsoever He willeth through His Will, and confirmeth whatsoever He desireth through His Purpose, and decreeth whatsoever He pleaseth through His Decree and the sovereignty of His Command"   BH02622

Praise, sanctified from the world and the mention of nations, befitteth the Possessor of the Kingdom of eternity and the Creator of earth and heaven, Who through His absolute Will created the heaven and made manifest the earth.  BH00954

God hath perfected His proof, completed His favor, caused the Sun to shine forth, and sent down His signs. His Manifestation is most evident, yet ye have entangled yourselves in the wilderness of doubt, conjecture and allusion.  BH00004

I swear by the light shed from the hearts of them that are nigh and sincere that the Dawning-Place of God's Cause and the Wellspring of His revelation hath appeared in such wise that no one hath any excuse to hesitate or delay.   BH04917

Verses have been revealed of such magnitude that every soul beholds itself powerless to recount them. The evidences have appeared, and the signs and allusions of the divine Books and heavenly Scriptures have all been fulfilled.   BH07006

He is the One manifest with the sovereignty of names from the horizon of heaven. Exalted is He Who hath shone forth upon the Greatest Scene and hath spoken that whereby the mountains were crushed and the moon was cleft asunder.   BH06498

when the Sovereign of the Realm of Might came with a name whereby all in the heavens and earth were thunderstruck...whereby the idols were shaken and the pillars of false gods were scattered and every lofty mountain was crushed.   BH04507

In existence there is a sign which We have, in most of Our Tablets, designated as the Most Great Elixir. When this sign is found in any soul, all his movements and stillness exert influence in the world and are effective therein.  BHU0023

Through Whom the limbs of the world did tremble and the Concourse on High rejoiced at His coming...through Whom the countenance of all possibility did smile, and the trees swayed, and the seas surged, and the mountains took flight   BH05154

With the hand of power and might, and with the firm support of sovereignty and dominion, He hath stood before all the monarchs, both high and low, never turning His blessed countenance aside. What matter could be greater than this?  BH01771

The Will of God hath never been, nor shall it ever be, subject to the will of men. Verily, He holdeth not to your cord, nor followeth what ye possess. His is the Most Firm Handle and the Most Great, Most Mighty, Most Glorious Path.  BH11038

Through Him were revealed the mysteries of what was and what is to be, through Him did the earth yield up her pearls, and all things were brought forth by His word "Be" and it is. Through Him were ordained the measures of all things  BH02437

This, verily, is He through a mere sign from Whose eyebrow was created the kingdom of names, and those who abide behind the pavilions of grandeur, and the denizens of the Concourse on High, and the dwellers of the cities of eternity.   BH01823

By Him Who made me His primary servant! Had God willed concerning me, He would have manifested a thousand times over such signs as I manifested at the beginning of the Cause from the exalted tokens, for God hath power over all things.  BB00026

Therefore He wished to say again, the Manifestation of God is He who doeth whatsoever He Willeth. Why and wherefore do not apply to His ways. It cannot be said or questioned why is this debased one elevated, why that lofty one abased.  ABU0585

This is a Book which calleth aloud in the world and summoneth all peoples to the Most Great Name, whereby the hearts of the Concourse on High were attracted and the hearts of them that denied God, the Creator of heaven, were perturbed.   BH01341

This is a Day wherein every sick one is healed, every seeker attaineth his goal, every stationary bird taketh flight, every motionless thing is stirred into life, every stammering tongue speaketh forth, and every remote one draweth nigh.  BH04219

But, notwithstanding all these afflictions which fell upon Him, He won the victory and subdued all to His Command; His spiritual authority prevailed in the world, and the deniers and those who contradicted Him failed and were frustrated.  ABU1569

Blessed is He Who hath come with mighty sovereignty, whereby the back of infidelity was broken and living waters gushed forth. He is the One through Whom the seas appeared and the rivers flowed and every lofty mountain was made manifest.   BH07575

I swear by the Sun of the All-Merciful's utterance that the eye was created for this glorious Day, the ears came into being for these times, the temple existeth for this wondrous Day, and the soul for comprehension of this exalted Cause.   BH07529

He Who was treasured in knowledge and concealed from eyes and sight hath come... He hath appeared and made manifest whatsoever He desired with a power before which the power of all who are in the heavens and on earth hath proved impotent.  BH00264

Know thou that if all who are in the heavens and on earth were to unite to cast into the firmament of His Cause all the arrows of doubt they possess, it would not even disturb a thread in that web of certitude that hath been woven by Him.   BH00371

Praise be unto His Holiness the Most Great Name and Ancient Identity, Whose sovereign bestowals shine forth like the light of dawn across the horizons and the mysteries of Whose gifts are renowned throughout the worlds of earth and heaven   AB08403

The Presence of the Blessed Perfection was awe-inspiring. Those who came into his Presence knelt down against their own will. They could not help themselves. They were awe-struck by the wonderful power and authority which emanated from Him.  ABU1551

Let them raise such a cry of joy that stone and tree and clod will be stirred to motion and trembling, for the outpourings of the Most Great Name are all-encompassing and the favors of the Ancient Beauty are unfailing in this mighty century   AB05516

By God! The Most Great Remembrance calleth aloud amidst the nations, saying: "God hath come, and through Him hath appeared the dawning of the days." He, verily, calleth by His own Self and summoneth the servants unto His most exalted horizon.  BH06384

This is a Day wherein the Light hath appeared and the Speaker of Sinai hath spoken, yet most of the people remain sunk in slumber. They have cast away the All-Glorious and taken hold of their vain desires. Verily, they are of the abased ones.   BH08577

But for Him, God's Cause would not have been made manifest in all else, nor would the cock of the Throne have crowed, nor would the Dove have warbled upon the twigs of the Lote-Tree of the Bayan, nor would those brought nigh have been created.  BH04388

The Holy Spirit hath appeared in a new garment! Say: Verily, the pebbles glorify God in this luminous, white hand! Say: Verily, the Beauty of God hath come forth from behind the veil of light! Wherefore, glorify God, the Sovereign of Sovereigns.  BH01835

Christ was but one soul, and He called and brought together all the different nations and races under one tent. Is it possible to perform such an achievement through human power? He arose alone and singly. What greater proof do you ask than this?  ABU0762

"Glorified be He Who hath manifested the Manifestation of His Cause as He pleaseth, and caused Him to speak forth verses whereby all atoms were attracted, that all might be assured that He is the Powerful, the Exalted, the Mighty, the Omnipotent."  BH04735

The holding of meetings at which people from the East come to the far West and sit together with you with such love and affection was impossible but through His penetrative power Baha'u'llah has made this easy and has joined the East and the West.  ABU2735

Can anything prevent Him from that which He is bidden? Nay, by Him Who commandeth the winds! Can the might of kings frighten Him? Nay, by Him Who alternateth night and day! His likeness is as the sea - can the happenings of time prevent its waves?   BH04155

I give sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, the power of speech to the mute and knowledge to the ignorant. I raise the dead, I deliver those who are in darkness and guide them into the realm of Light. I make the poor rich and the weak powerful.   ABU3030

How many men who counted themselves among the most learned of the learned were seen to be deprived and forbidden from the choice wine and from the Kawthar of the utterance of the Self-Subsisting Lord, while the handmaidens of God attained thereunto.   BH07224

Thus have We informed thee, apprised thee, and caused thee to hear the call of this lonely Stranger. Arise at My leave and My call, then drink of the choice wine which floweth from the direction of the Throne through His name, the Mighty, the Generous.  BH01590

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who speaketh with truth is indeed the One concealed in His Books, mentioned by His tongue, and recorded by His Most Exalted Pen, through Whose movement the Kingdom of Names was manifested.  BH02050

Armed with the rod of celestial dominion, adorned with the white hand of divine knowledge, and proceeding from the Paran of the love of God, and wielding the serpent of power and everlasting majesty, He shone forth from the Sinai of light upon the world.  BH00002

They are the conveyers in creation and legislation. In the human station there are four principles including the pillars who are the Prophets - their means of conveying is through revelation in the heart and descent of the angel in wakefulness and sleep.  BB00354

In that which He uttereth He hath had and hath no purpose for Himself; rather, out of pure bounty and infinite mercy doth He summon all to the realm of oneness. He it is Whose loving-kindness hath preceded all things and Whose grace hath encompassed all.   BH06101

His Holiness Baha'u'llah - may my soul be offered up for His friends - hath shone forth with such splendor that His graces are boundless. His Manifestation is lordly and its fruit is life everlasting. Its power is that of the breathings of the Holy Spirit.  AB10990

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I give praise to Thee, that Thou hast made me able so to reveal Thine utterances, and manifest Thy proofs and Thy testimonies, that every proof hath been made to circle round my will, and every testimony to compass my pleasure.  BH05079

In reality, they struck an axe at their own roots and destroyed their own foundation. Those nations and governments were buried in the dust of abasement, while that brilliant star rose from the dawning-place of light with renowned fame, manifest and evident.  AB01297

The power of Baha'u'llah hath set the Occident and the Orient in motion. His proof is manifest as the sun and His evidence is manifest and clear, yet the bat fleeth the light of the sun and the beetle doth abhor the sweet scents wafting from the rose garden.  AB02091

Look at the Christ. He was a youth of Israel, not a great and honored man, but born from a poor family. He was so poor that He was born in a manger, yet He changed the conditions of the whole world. What proof could be greater than this that He was from God?   ABU0107

If thou knowest what thou art commanded and speak openly of it, the dominion is for thee, the Kingdom is for thee and thy shining star will never set, thy brilliant light never sink, thy brimful treasure never be consumed and thy brave army never be defeated.   AB03577

Observe how We have made thee the cause of the creation of all things, as a bounty from Our presence - verily We are the Eternal. Nothing hath been created except through God's bounty, and We have made thee the mirror of that Name as a bounty from Our presence.  BB00107

Every Messenger sent with truth hath testified to Him, and every Prophet hath attained unto this Hidden News. Whoso hath attained unto Him hath attained unto the presence of God, and whoso hath turned away is accounted among the idolaters in the Preserved Tablet.  BH04759

By My life! Whosoever has today attained the lights of the Face, the denizens of the Supreme Concourse make mention of him, and towards him turn the faces of those through whom the clouds pour down rain, the winds blow, and the earth brings forth its vegetation.   BH03225

Were We to reveal unto thee what lieth concealed in the treasuries of infallibility, by God, the heaven would be cleft asunder, the earth would be rent, and the hearts of all servants would be convulsed, save whom thy Lord willeth, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving.   BH01327

And yet another of His signs are the extraordinary things He continually did, the miracles He performed, the wonders appearing from Him without interruption like the streaming down of His clouds--and the acknowledgement, even by unbelievers, of His powerful light.  AB00444

He through Whom all things were transformed hath come, and the Call hath been raised from the horizon of the Prison of 'Akka. Today from the wilderness the voice of the divine Lote-Tree is raised, proclaiming "He Who is the Lord of the Kingdom of Names hath come!"   BH02221

"Whosoever hath the love of this Youth in his heart, God shall verily render him victorious over all who dwell upon earth and heaven... He shall walk upon water as he waketh upon the earth, and shall soar in the realm of the Spirit in the limitless expanse of heaven"  BH02265

Beware lest ye doubt Him by Whose command the seas were made to surge, the trees to bear fruit, the suns to shine, the heavens to be raised up, the mountains to be fixed, and the Dove to warble upon the branches of the Tree of Holiness behind the veils and coverings.   BH01677

All names return unto God and all similitudes end in God and everything begins from God and everything returns to God. This is what God shall manifest thereafter, and God shall establish through Him the Resurrection; therefore await Him, then be ye assured of Him.  BB00004

From the horizon of this Prison He calleth out to all nations: By God! I have accepted sorrows for the joy of the worlds, and afflictions for the well-being of all who dwell on earth, and imprisonment for the liberation of all on earth from the chains of self and passion.   BH04479

"The Promise has come and the Promised One has appeared before the faces of princes and divines, speaking that which God, the Powerful, the Almighty, has commanded Him - such that neither the might of the world weakened Him nor the power of kings and rulers prevented Him."  BH04091

Praise be to God that thou art mentioned in the nights and days, and the favor of the Truth is directed toward thee. The Wronged One beareth witness that thou hast attained unto that which was revealed from time immemorial in the Books of God, the Lord of the mighty Throne.  BH01149

Know thou that when We arrived at the prison, We desired to convey unto all the messages of thy Lord, that they might know that tribulations have not deterred Us from the remembrance of God, the Lord of all names, nor have We been frightened by the might of them that oppress.  BH03729

By God! He hath appeared with all the signs, the recognition of which hath proved beyond the capacity of every person of understanding. On His right hand was the Kingdom of God, then on His left the Dominion of Command, and before Him marched the hosts of a wondrous Revelation  BH11722

What! Believe ye in your hearts that ye possess the power to extinguish the radiance of the Sun, or to eclipse its splendor? Nay, by My life! Ye will never and can never achieve your purpose, though ye summon to your aid all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth.   BH00657

A Cause which all the governments and peoples of the earth, notwithstanding all their powers and their armies, are unable to promote and promulgate, one holy Soul promulgates without aid or assistance! Can this be accomplished through the agency of mere human power? No, by God!  AB00081

All things have testified to the Lord of Names, yet none comprehend this save those possessed of understanding. The Tree hath called out with the loudest cry, yet most of the people hear not. The seas have borne witness to the Dayspring of Lights, yet the people understand not.   BH07255

Banished the ways of evil-doers and chained up the hands of evil-plotters, The design of the world was renewed by the strength of His arm. How could the Friend [Abraham] have shattered the idols of the world, Had He not drawn His power from a single cry of His enrapturing Call?   BH02846

From the outset, without veil or concealment, He spoke the Most Great Word before the faces of divines and princes. Whence appeared this power, and from what dawning-place shone forth this grandeur? By God's life! It hath appeared above the comprehension and understanding of men.   BH00785

Thou hast ever been, O my God, in the heights of power, might and majesty, and wilt ever remain in the exaltation of grandeur, glory and magnificence. All the Prophets are in fear of the manifestations of Thy wrath, and all the Chosen Ones are disturbed by the revelations of Thy dread.  BH02467

Through Him My Cause was established, My path was raised up, My balance was set, and that which lay hidden in My preserved Tablet was revealed. Through Him were gladdened the eyes of those who uttered My remembrance, who came with My signs and were made manifest through My clear proofs.   BH09941

The Most Holy, Most Exalted Being remained seated with such composure, dignity and calm that it was as if these surrounding people were not enemies but had all had come with acceptance and devotion to the Truth. God is Most Great in His grandeur, His glory, His tranquility and His power!   BH00583

The path of God is more manifest than the sun, and His proof more perfect than all that exists in creation. He is the Praised One in His deeds, the One to be obeyed in His command, the Dominant One in His sovereignty, and the Manifest One through His signs which have encompassed the horizons.  BH01309

Through Him the Pen of the Most High was set in motion, and with His remembrance the Scriptures in the kingdom of names were embellished. Through Him Thy fragrances were wafted, and the sweet smell of Thy raiment was shed abroad amongst all the dwellers of the earth and the inmates of heaven.  BH01969

By the lights of the Sun of inner meanings which hath shone forth from the horizon of the prison, in these days man is able to attain an everlasting station, eternal bounty, and perpetual sustenance. The days are passing, and He Who conversed on Sinai is established upon the throne of Revelation.   BH00554

Though the physical eye is deprived of beholding His countenance, the eye of the heart is blessed and seeing. Though outward sight is prevented, inner vision is favored. The light of the sun is not concealed by any veil, and the outpourings of this radiant and brilliant Orb are in no way cut off.   AB01662

While Baha Ollah lived in prison He carried Himself with the utmost majesty and independence. Before Him every one was humble. Everyone who presented himself in the presence of Baha Ollah would come out impressed with His spiritual power and authority. Even His enemies bore testimony to this fact.  ABU0046

By God! He hath appeared in such wise as to dazzle eyes from beholding His beauty, if ye be of them that see. Say: The mighty oceans have surged from this tempestuous, foam-flecked, billowing, flowing, great Sea, and the heaven hath been raised from this heaven which was elevated in this Glory.   BH01363

Glorified be He Who sendeth down the verses in truth and will continue to send them down as He pleaseth by His command, and verily He hath power over all things. Before Him bow down in adoration all who are in the heavens and on earth, though He is in truth independent of the worship of all creation.   BH02052

This is through the power of Baha'u'llah and calls for our thankfulness and happiness. If it be said that Baha'u'llah brought a man from heaven and another from earth and caused them to meet midway between the earth and heaven, do not be surprised. The power of Baha'u'llah makes all difficulties simple.  ABU2430

Then take shelter in the shade of the Tree of Truth, this Youth, Who when He moveth within Himself causeth to move thereby all manifestations of truth and suns of oneness, and when He remaineth still within Himself, the beauty of truth and His temple are established upon an exalted and impregnable throne  BH01547

I marvel at the wonders of Thy Revelation, and at the tokens of Thy glory. I recognize, O Thou Who art my heart's Desire, that were fire to be touched by water it would instantly be extinguished, whereas the Fire which Thou didst kindle can never go out, though all the seas of the earth be poured upon it.  BH05894

By My life! They are My glory, a glory wherewith God hath adorned His own Self. The shame I was made to bear hath uncovered the glory with which the whole of creation had been invested, and through the cruelties I have endured, the Day Star of Justice hath manifested itself, and shed its splendor upon men.   BH03249

He is the One through Whom the ocean of utterance has surged before the faces of all religions. Glorified be He Who has made manifest the Path, sent down the Proof, and caused all things to speak forth with the most exalted call that there is none other God but He, the Single, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH01191

Verily We have set in motion the mountains upon the earth and the stars upon the Throne round about the Fire in the Pole of Water by the leave of the Remembrance, through God, the Truth, and none among you hath power over another. He is the Almighty over His servants, and He is God, the Knower of all things.  BB00002

The heaven beareth witness, and the sun and moon testify, that from the first days until now this Wronged One hath stood before the faces of the world and called out with the most exalted call, in such wise that neither the opposition of rulers nor the tyranny of divines could deter Him from the Will of God.   BH01223

Such opposition and resistance were not simple or trivial. It is as though one were in this day to deny Christ among Christian nations who firmly cling to the Bible; or as though one were--God forbid!--to blaspheme Christ in the papal court, oppose all His followers, and to act thus in the most vehement manner.   AB00556

Verily Thou art the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest. The intimations of those who have disbelieved in Thy signs and turned away from Thy proof and denied Thy sovereignty cannot withhold Thee. There is none other God but Thee, the Most High, the Omnipotent, the All-Ruling, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH08945

He is indeed the One at Whose appearance the mountains passed away and all things spoke in remembrance of God, the Lord of grandeur and might. Through Him every poor one turned toward the Kingdom of wealth, every bewildered soul toward the lights of guidance, and every thirsty one toward the Kawthar of eternity.   BH01994

When thou hast closed thine eyes to transgression and opened them with beneficence, there waft over the peoples of all worlds the sweet-scented breezes of holiness, that they may become aware within themselves how God hath preferred them above all creation, made them His companions, honored them with His presence.   BH01069

From the earliest dawn of the Cause until the day of His ascension, the Blessed Beauty, openly and visibly, without any veil or concealment, withstood all the peoples, nations, and rulers of the world and exalted the Word of God. The Tablets to the kings were revealed, and the mystery of adoration was made manifest.   AB00045

Whatever They decree in this station is identical with reality itself and must be attributed to God. All that They proclaim in this station is Divine revelation, all that They declare is heavenly inspiration, all that They prescribe is justice, all that They enjoin is the truth, and all that They choose is what is best.   AB00345

Unique, single, with no assistance, no support, no aid and notwithstanding a stammering tongue, he caused the rise of such a lowly, degraded nation to the apogee of spiritual attainment and wisdom. This shows that he was unquestionably confirmed by the divine Holy Spirit, because from every standpoint this is unparalleled.  ABU0692

He proclaimed unto the nations with His most exalted call. To this testifieth what hath been sent down from His Supreme Pen in His preserved Tablet. He is the One Who arose to proclaim the Cause in such wise that the hosts of the world could not deter Him, nor could the ranks of men prevent Him from His firm and wise command.   BH09187

By the power of My Most Great Name, O peoples of the earth! By God, the Ancient King hath come for the reformation of the world. Beware lest the doubts of your divines debar you from the ocean of your Lord's knowledge, the Mighty, the Powerful. He speaketh naught save that which shall profit you in this world and in the next.  BH00844

When We found the people immersed in the delusion of ignorance and the intoxication of desire, We lifted the hem of the veil with the fingers of Command less than can be counted. Then arose the clamor of the denizens of Sinai at the station of pause, the veils of the righteous were rent asunder, every known name was struck with awe   BH01023

Whereas the billows of this rising ocean, casteth the brilliant precious gems and the brilliant maidens, rather the unique inerrant on the shores of the hearts and souls. This is a brilliant proof and bounty favored upon all creation. He is the All-Glorious that hath manifesteth the attribute of Generosity upon the Point of Existence.   AB03270

What a fine memorial they have left behind, which is mentioned in all divine worlds, even in the realm of Lahut. Consider what institutions Moses established for the wavering and troubled children of Israel in this earthly world, that even after three thousand years schools, educational centers and factories have been built for them in Haifa  ABU1670

He hath appeared in truth from a glorious horizon. Say: O people! Do ye worship the calf and forsake Him by Whose command the sun hath dawned from the horizon of the name of the Most High, through Whom the Books have been sent down throughout all ages, and through Whom the treasuries of the Cause have appeared from One mighty and powerful?   BH03634

Yet these great numbers, instead of being able to dominate Him, could not withstand His wonderful personality and the power and influence of His heavenly Cause. Although they were determined upon extinguishing the light in that most brilliant lantern, they were ultimately defeated and overthrown, and day by day His splendor became more radiant.   ABU0038

This young man, Christ, through an extraordinary power, abrogated the ancient Mosaic Law and undertook to reform the general morals. He re-established eternal glory for Israel; nay, rather, He undertook the reformation of the entire human world and spread teachings that were not limited to Israel but established universal felicity for human society.  AB01520

It is the same with the holy messengers when they have left the earth. Christ acts to-day without an intermediary. His expressions in the world are numerous. The divine teachers act more powerfully after the detachment of their souls from the body. In his time the Christ was not able to influence many people. Afterward his influence became widespread.  ABU1201

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that He Whose voice was raised from the Most Exalted Horizon is indeed the One Who conversed upon Sinai, Who is established upon the Throne of Revelation, through Whom the Trump was blown, through Whom the decree of resurrection was fulfilled, and through Whom those that lay in their graves arose.   BH01002

Today in the Most Great Prison, before the face of the Ancient King, the ocean of reality appeareth manifest and billowing. Were all the peoples of the world to inhale but a trace of the fragrance of His robe, were they to hearken unto but one of the revealed utterances, they would all forsake that which they possess and turn unto that which is with God.  BH00600

O concourse of creation! The Lord of Names hath come! Turn ye unto Him and be not of them that are far removed." Yet they slumber upon the couch of heedlessness and idle fancies, such that this Call which hath encompassed the world moveth them not - the Call whereby the very rocks cry out: "The Kingdom is God's, the Almighty, the Most High, the Most Great!"  BH02172

But the Bab Himself attached no importance to this uproar and tumult, and, alike on the road and in the castles of Maku and Chihriq, evening and morning, nay, day and night, in extremest rapture and amazement, He would restrict Himself to repeating and meditating on the qualities and attributes of that absent-yet-present, regarded-and-regarding Person of His.  AB00003

The most perfect and complete antidote hath appeared through the blessing of the Most Great Name, yet most are afflicted with the diseases of ignorance and folly. The Water of Life surgeth before the faces of men, and the Sun of Grace shineth resplendent above their heads, yet all remain veiled save whom our Lord, the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful, willeth.   BH00966

The lights of His education are radiating even as the sun. See what it has accomplished, how it is developing all humanity so that I, a Persian, have come to this meeting of revered souls upon the American continent and am standing here expounding to you in the greatest love. This is through the training of Baha'u'llah, which can unite and has united these hearts.  ABU0900

By God! He hath stood firm in the Cause in such wise that were anyone to ponder thereon, he would cast away all created things and hasten unto the All-Merciful... He stood between earth and heaven, and nodded His head, and winked His eye, and raised His brow, and caused His garment to shine forth, and raised His sleeve, and moved His lips, and gestured with His hand   BH01839

The might of the world restrained Him not, nor did the opposition of nations deter Him from His remembrance and utterance. The more affliction intensified, the more powerful became His utterance, until He addressed all the monarchs of the earth without veil or covering. His verses encompassed the world, and His evidences illumined receptive hearts and souls like unto the sun.   BH00433

Through Him was revealed that which was concealed, and the Ancient Beauty shone forth amidst the peoples... Through Him the fragrance of the All-Merciful wafted throughout creation, and the atoms cried out: "Power belongeth unto God, the Almighty, the Most High, the Omnipotent!" Through Him were the veils rent asunder and that which was inscribed on a preserved tablet was made manifest.   BH02458

He hath stood between heaven and earth with mighty sovereignty, and there hath appeared from Him the proof of 'Ali, then the evidence of Muhammad, then the testimony of the Spirit, then that which was brought by Him Who conversed with God. Beyond all this, He hath appeared with such sovereignty as no eye in all creation hath witnessed the like thereof, nor the eyes of the angels near unto God.   BH01218

While dictating Tablets to his Secretary at a rapid fire rate, he had papers in his hand writing on some entirely different topic and now and then carry an interesting conversation with those who were present and suddenly he would raise his head and point to us from the window a wonderful, tall, noble tree in a garden far away. One occupation would not prevent him from attending to other things.  ABU2002

Today the Call of the Kingdom is raised. Having listened to it, can we deny its soothing effect? Today the Sun of Reality is shining upon all the regions. Becoming warmed through its rays, is it possible to shut our eyes and say No, No!? Today the breeze of Providence is wafting and the dead bodies of the world, having become quickened through the life-imparting breath, can we negate its effect?   ABU1089

In brief, throughout all days We stood before the faces of the people and raised up the Cause of God to such a degree that both East and West of the earth heard and understood according to their capacity. In days when all were hidden in fear, this Wronged One appeared with utmost power and spoke with most eloquent utterance. Neither the arrows of destiny nor the swords of tribulation prevented Him.   BH01155

Though He was a merchant, He confounded all the divines of Persia. Alone and unaided, He undertook a task that one cannot even imagine, for the Persians are known throughout the world for their religious fanaticism. This illustrious Being arose with such power that He shook to their foundations the customs, habits, morals, conditions and institutions of Persia, and established a new Law, Faith and Religion.  AB01889

This is an epistle from God, the Most High, the All-Powerful, the All-Wise, wherein He maketh mention of the handmaiden of God, the Most Great, whom God hath singled out through His Beloved and made her one of the manifestations of undoubted glory, and given her to drink of the wine of life in the knowledge of His Self... and honored her with the presence of Him through Whom were opened the gates of Paradise   BH02634

When the appointed time was come, He appeared with the truth and revealed that which was treasured in the knowledge of God and concealed from the eyes of them that are nigh. The affairs of men hindered Him not, nor did the oppression of such as denied the Day of Judgment frighten Him. Nothing escapeth His knowledge. He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth. He is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH03012

When He rose from Iraq, He caused a tumult throughout all regions and cast an illumined radiance upon all existence. Being was set in motion, contingent existence found joy, the realities of all things sought divine meanings, the atoms of creation found the divine Beloved, the East became the dawning-place of lights, and the West became the horizon of effulgence. Earth became heaven, and the dark soil became luminous.  AB03195

God hath made the likeness of His Command as the likeness of the sun which God causeth to rise times beyond any one's reckoning save His own, whereupon all are illumined by a single sun; and He causeth it to set times beyond any one's reckoning save His own, whereupon all await it. Say: I am the first whom God created from a beginning that hath no beginning, and made me the Sun of His Manifestation unto all the worlds.  BB00063

God's Cause through His Proof is more wondrous than what God revealed through Muhammad, the Messenger of God, aforetime, would ye but reflect a little. God hath manifested His Proof from among those who could not speak in the tongue of the Arabs, and after twenty-four years of his life did God make him manifest, whereas aforetime it was after forty years, when God had nurtured him among those who spoke in the Arabic tongue.  BB00003

Yet in spite of all difficulties, he was ever in an exalted state; his face shone continually. He had the presence of a king. One cannot imagine such majesty. One never thought of him as a prisoner - on the contrary, one would have said that he was enjoying the greatest triumph, for he drew his strength from divine power. Minds were exalted on beholding him, and Baha'o'llah never hid himself. He spoke courageously before all.   ABU0461

He hath quickened mankind with the spirit of guidance and hath rendered clear the White Path of Gifts, through the arguments which are brilliant and clear to the hearts of the intelligent, and whereby these hearts are moved, enlightened, illuminated and become cognizant of the Mighty Message in this Manifest Day of the Manifestation of the Honorable Station when the mystery of existence flows just as do the souls in the bodies.  AB09119

While in prison He withstood two despotic kings, and He gained victory over both. In prison He raised His Banner, He spread His Teachings and spiritually defeated two despotic kings. They could not prevent the spread of His Teachings. In brief, while in prison, He raised the Ensign of His Principles. This is impaneled in the history of the world. Such dominion appeared from Him, and such potency manifested from His personality.   ABU1144

He paid no attention to the ministers and viziers. The Governor-in-Chief of Acca craved to be honored by admission to the presence of Baha'o'llah. For five years this one man, called Zia Pasha, asked Abdul-Baha if he would supplicate the Manifestation to permit him to make this visit, but the Manifestation never granted it. The Blessed Perfection was imprisoned, yet he had that power to refuse anything or to do anything he wished.   ABU1343

Thou didst make it the center of the sphere of creation and a mighty luminary from which brilliant rays spread to all regions, and a sea whose waves surge across the horizons, and a spring whose clouds pour forth upon hills and mountains and lands, and whose breezes pass over gardens and thickets and meadows and regions until through its effects the temples of beings were renewed and the dead in the depths of graves were brought to life by its fragrances.   AB01639

I said the concise and sufficient proof is that Baha'o'llah in such a prison as Acca, and when under chains, raised His banner. In Teheran He was in prison and under chains. In Acca he was in prison. Under these circumstances he raised it. When I mentioned this proof he became very silent. I said, 'Just one word more. There is nothing recorded comparable to this. What power is this that from the beginning of the world until today such a thing has not happened.'  ABU1274

Yet despite this, in prison and in chains, He withstood all who were on earth - that is, all kings and nations. While under their claws and torment, those Tablets to the Kings were revealed and severe warnings were given. In prison He showed no regard for any government. In brief, He made His Cause world-conquering while in prison. Under chains He caused the Word of God to reach East and West, raised the banner of the Kingdom, and made His light to shine forth.  ABU0090

Thou art the One from Whose knowledge nothing escapeth, and Thou hast encompassed all things with knowledge. Thou art the One through Whom all creation hath turned to God in the beginning, and through Whom all creation hath returned to God in the end. Through thee have all things, past and future, been brought into being. Is there anything not created through thy love, having been created before through thy manifestation and to be created after through thy concealment?   BB00233

Praise be to God Who hath manifested His signs, made clear His evidences, raised His banners, exalted His words, and diffused His fragrances. Through this all-embracing outpouring, this perfect generosity, this all-encompassing mystery, and this resplendent light, He hath renewed the garment of existence, distinguished between the arrogant and those who prostrate themselves, opened the gates of bounty, bestowed the promised gift and the sweet waters that flow abundantly.  AB06551

Thus have We opened the gate of the Kingdom of utterance with My finger, and I am, verily, the Powerful, the Mighty. Magnified is the All-Merciful Who hath, through His Most Exalted Word, attracted all who are in earth and heaven, and guided all through it on a Day wherein the foundations of the cities of names were shaken. He it is Who hath subdued all things through His Most Exalted Pen, and through it hath opened the door of reunion unto all who dwell in the kingdom of creation.  BH00147

From this prison, from within its walls, He wrote epistles to all the kings. He summoned them to arbitration and the Most Great Peace. Baha'u'llah hoisted His banner within the walls of that prison. Refer to all history. It has no parallel! No such event has ever taken place before. That a stranger, alone and a prisoner, has succeeded in advancing His Cause, and been enabled to spread broadcast His Teachings, so that, eventually, He was powerful enough to conquer the very king who banished Him.   ABU0198

Although weary, weak and helpless, we are being assisted and supported by the bounties and confirmations of the Blessed Beauty. Who and what are we? These are the rays from the Sun of the Beauty of Abha and the light of the Supreme Horizon. How beautifully the poet says, 'The mosquito, to which thou givest power to fly, becomes a falcon.' Under the shadow of the Blessed Beauty, the atom becomes the sun; the ant becomes a Solomon; the unpopular become popular, and the degraded find eternal glory."  ABU0553

Then the trumpet was blown, the graves arose, the herald called out, the spirit was breathed, and the world was adorned with the ornament of knowledge. Exalted is the All-Merciful Who manifested Himself amidst all created things, Who speaks in the kingdom of utterance, and Whose Most Exalted Pen moves at every moment - the Pen through which He has detailed every matter with truth, revealed every mystery with justice, explained every wisdom with grace, and established every decree in His mighty Book.   BH01452

The Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name has shone forth and radiated upon all the realms of creation and regions of existence with all names and attributes. He guided the lost ones to the path of guidance, directed the thirsty to the pure spring, the poor to the treasure of wealth, and guided the abased to the summit of glory, the ignorant to the ocean of knowledge, the heedless to the pure fountain of conscience, called the destitute to the flowing treasury, and delivered the helpless from suffering.  AB02558

When the Christ was made manifest, the minds of the various contemporary peoples, their views, their emotional attitudes, whether they were Romans, Greeks, Syrians, Israelites, or others, were at variance with one another. But once His universal power was brought to bear, it gradually succeeded, after the lapse of three hundred years, in gathering together all those divergent minds under the protection, and within the governance, of one central Point, all sharing the same spiritual emotions in their hearts.   AB00131

But all these difficulties and hardships served only to increase their power and accomplishment. Through these privations and persecutions they were severed from the world. Although they walked upon the earth, they lived in Heaven. Deprived of material food they partook of the eternal fruits of Paradise. Homeless and forsaken in this world, they rested upon the Divine Couch of Nearness. Day and night they were unceasingly proclaiming the Call of the Kingdom and establishing the foundations of the Most Great Peace.   ABU1058

By Thy right over all created things, than which there exists nothing greater in all creation, and by the manifestation of Thy revelation unto all existence, than which there exists nothing mightier in all invention, from the beginning of Thy primacy that hath no beginning unto the end of Thine ultimacy that hath no end--all circle round Thy Will, prostrate themselves before God through Thy Countenance, worship God through Thy Face, and dwell in the kingdom of the heavens and earth and what lieth between them through Thy decree.   BB00248

Having never attended school nor studied books of learning, through divine power and celestial might and glory, openly and without any veil, He summoned and guided the divines and rulers of the earth to the Dayspring of Revelation and the Dawning-Place of inspiration. O Jacob! The opposition of the world did not prevent the Most Great Name from proclamation, and the bullets of the peoples' factions did not hold Him back from His purpose. Every fair-minded one hath testified to His power and every person of insight hath become aware.   BH04358

Among the conditions indicating his absolute prophethood are the traces of his self, whereto Abu Ja'far, peace be upon him, pointed in his words, saying gloriously: In the Messenger of God, peace be upon him and his family, were three qualities found in no other: He had no shadow, and when he walked a path, if one were to pass by it two days later [...] No created thing would pass by where He had been without recognizing that He had passed there by His sweet fragrance, and whenever He passed by a stone or a tree, it would prostrate before Him.  BB00014

The Bearer of this mighty Message, this ancient Light, and this straight Path possesses a lofty and exalted lineage and sublime and elevated nobility. Their forebears and ancestors illumined the darkness of night until the string of pearls was perfectly arranged. This lineage has ever transferred from pure loins to pure wombs. How many treasures lie hidden in corners, how many most glorious concealed gems and precious unique jewels stored away! Nevertheless, His Cause is too great to be established through connection to others and too noble to be known through any but Him.   AB00039

The Blessed Beauty said, Very well, but the Cause of God is not a plaything for children. As the Qur'an relates from the tongue of the objectors: 'And they say: We will not believe in thee until thou cause a spring to gush forth from the earth for us; or thou have a house of gold,' and some said, 'Or thou bring God and the angels face to face with us,' and others said, 'Or thou ascend to heaven, and even then we will not believe in thine ascension until thou bring down for us a book.' In answer to all these He says: 'Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I aught but a mortal messenger?'  ABU0231

Through Thee were rent asunder the veils of all created things, through Thee appeared the kingdom of names and attributes, through Thee was every soul guided to the shore of hallowed might, through Thee did the Dove warble upon the branches of eternity, and the Bird of the Throne sing upon the twigs of the Lote-Tree of Glory. Through Thee appeared the Beauty of the Unseen by His Most Exalted Name, through Thee descended every good thing from the dominion of the cloud of mystery to the kingdom of creation, and every grace was inscribed by the Finger of God upon the tablets of destiny.   BH00280

God hath indeed sent down the Book with the Most Great Truth upon His Word, that people might know that God hath preserved fire within a point of snow. We have raised up the Remembrance from before Us in truth, and We have made him mighty before God and exalted above truth. Fear God, O servants! None of your deeds are accepted without love for His loved one, even in the slightest measure. Know, O servants of God, that We have indeed favored Our servant above many whom We created with great favor, that ye may know that God doeth what He willeth and judgeth as He desireth, in truth and with truth made manifest.  BB00002

By God! I have come unto you, O peoples of the earth, to bring you glad tidings of Him Who shall come with the standards of signs and the banners of proofs, Who hath named Himself the Hidden Mystery and the Treasured Secret. I bear witness that He was concealed behind the veil of grandeur throughout all eternity, and when He willed to manifest His Cause, He appeared with a sovereignty that encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth, and uttered that which caused every treacherous one to be shaken and every faithful one to be assured, every fearful and false one to lament and every sincere seeker to rejoice.  BH01204

Consider then the educative power of Baha'u'llah, Who has illumined the dark East and transformed savage beasts into heavenly angels. He has made the ignorant knowing and turned predators into gazelles in the field of oneness. Those who by belief and custom were the enemies of all mankind are now, with utmost unity, friends and kind to all. From extreme ignorance they used to burn the Holy Book; now they expound the truths and mysteries of the Torah and Gospel. In a brief period He so educated them that under fetters and chains, and under threat of sword and blade, they would cry out "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha!" and would place sweet candy in their executioners' mouths that they might strike with sweetened lips.   AB00304

He unfurled the banner of manifest light and created a great commotion in both East and West. Hath such power and might any like or equal? Hath it any parallel in bygone centuries? Nay, by God! For the Manifestations of God in former times established Their Cause either through the sword and overwhelming force, or Their Cause spread after three hundred years. But the Most Great Name, under chains and the sword, arose to conquer East and West. His Cause became effective, His mention prevailed, His call encompassed the world, and His fame reached the Kingdom on high. In prison He had a heavenly palace, and in the pit He reached the height of the moon. What power is greater than this, what might more perfect than this?  AB02328



Even as the visible sun that assisteth, as decreed by God, the true One, the Adored, in the development of all earthly things, such as the trees, the fruits, and colors thereof, the minerals of the earth, and all that may be witnessed in the world of creation, so do the divine Luminaries, by their loving care and educative influence, cause the trees of divine unity, the fruits of His oneness, the leaves of detachment, the blossoms of knowledge and certitude, and the myrtles of wisdom and utterance, to exist and be made manifest. Thus it is that through the rise of these Luminaries of God the world is made new, the waters of everlasting life stream forth, the billows of loving-kindness surge, the clouds of grace are gathered, and the breeze of bounty bloweth upon all created things. It is the warmth that these Luminaries of God generate, and the undying fires they kindle, which cause the light of the love of God to burn fiercely in the heart of humanity. It is through the abundant grace of these Symbols of Detachment that the Spirit of life everlasting is breathed into the bodies of the dead.  BH00002

Look then with the eye of insight and the vision of reality at the mighty cycles and ancient ages, that you may see the reality of the meanings of this blessed verse ["Lord of the two Easts and Lord of the two Wests"] personified and embodied, lifting every veil, removing every covering, with clear proof and evident explanation. For when you look at this mighty universe, you see their traces spread abroad, their lights diffused, their tokens manifest, their law widespread, their way renowned, their manifest religion encompassing all beings, their mighty light illuminating from the horizons of the heavens and earths. Their way is the most excellent, and their banners are those waving above the loftiest edifices. This is their radiance, their manifestation and their appearance from the horizon of horizons. Then look at the world of souls and spirits and hearts, that you may see how souls are inspired by their remembrance, at peace with their thought, content with their decree, well-pleased with their devotion, sanctified by their radiance, gladdened by their bestowal, illumined by their lights, receiving grace from the brilliance of their rays. And spirits are stirred by the breezes of their gardens, delighting in the bounties of their realities, rejoicing in the freshness of their meadows, gladdened by the fragrance of their thickets, made happy by the outpouring from their fountains. Hearts throb with love for them, tongues speak their praise. Consciousness is filled with spirit and fragrance by their sweet scents, and stays wakeful through nights and days by their gentle breezes. Beings receive grace from their outpourings, realities are purified by their manifestations, essences derive lights from their kindled fire, identities acquire mysteries from their abundant effusions. Faces beam, tongues rejoice, ears take delight, eyes are illumined, breasts are expanded - all this from their perfect outpourings and all-encompassing perfections. AB01288

At stated periods souls are sent to earth by the Mighty God with what we call 'the Power of the Great Ether.' And they who possess this power can do anything; they have all Power...  Jesus Christ had this power. The people though him a poor young man whom they had crucified but he possessed the power of the Holy Spirit; therefore he could not remain underground. This ethereal power arose and quickened the world. And now look to the Master, for this power is his. BHU0030
