The organizer of earthly sovereignty is a domineering, subjugating power, while the organizer of the Eternal Sovereignty is the Love Power.   ABU1701

Reflect on the divine forces. What has assembled us together? It is not a material but a spiritual force which has created this bond between our hearts, this attraction and affection for one another, -- a power stronger than reason, a power which founds nations, creates human unity and makes us renounce the world to discover sciences and organize laws which work through all creatures.  ABU1586

Therefore, the righteous people are spiritual educators and trainers, and their effective power is love. Love is the real magnet which attracts the hearts and souls of men, and consequently the purpose of the manifestations of God is to radiate the light of love from their hearts.  ABU0691


The light of the world is the love of God.  AB03860

only this spiritual power of love can unite East and West  ABU1127

It is Love that establishes communication between the hearts of men. Love is the divine power which causes the ascension of man to all the heavenly stations.   ABU2256


Kindle the fire of the love of God in the hearts of the pure ones  AB04542

will kindle the fire of love, and will burn away the veil of doubts  AB01143

the love of God is an impregnable fortress and a mighty citadel  AB06690

The love of God is life-giving and brings rapture and ecstasy, longing and joy.  AB01082

Through one emanation of this Love, the world of existence has come into being.   ABU3084

so enkindle them that the flame of the fire of love may reach to the zenith of the Concourse on High   AB07192

should he wax in his love for Me, him will We cause to triumph over all that is in heaven and all that is on earth  BH11360

In the world of existence there is no power as efficacious and as penetrative as the power of love.   ABU3348

May love increase every day; may it strike fire to light the candle in the darkness, like a gift and mercy of God.   ABU2285

The higher the flame of the fire of the Love of God in the heart, the more eloquent and fluent becomes the tongue.   ABU1793

when the hosts of the love of God conquer the realm of hearts, spiritual delight results and the joy of conscience appears  AB11888

Napoleon established his kingdom through the power of oppression while Christ established His through the power of the love of God.   ABU1487

drink such a cup of the wine of the love of God that it creates a commotion in the world and bestows intoxication upon the world of humanity  AB02258

love makes the distance short... for in the pathway of true love every difficulty is mercy, every hardship is easy, and every catastrophe is a blessing   ABU1731

From the letter 'Ha' of this word, the fire of divine love surges in the breasts and hearts of the believers in unity, the near ones, and the sincere ones.  BH00944


May your warmth of love reach such a degree that it sets aflame the frozen oceans, and may you ignite such a blaze that it burns away all veils and barriers.  AB11058

By My life! Should the lamp of any heart be lit with the love of God, from it would be kindled the hearts of all creation. This, verily, is a manifest truth.   BH03689

Behold what a power this is -- a power that compels people to sacrifice themselves for each other, and brings them to a station where they demonstrate such love!  ABU3113

Although the day is cold for me to go out, yet I have come to see you. For the lover there are no difficulties; all is easy. For love I have journeyed to London.   ABU1600

By Him Who holds my soul in His hand, those who drink from the cup of love are secure, while those who turn away from the command of divine authority are the losers.   BB00489

Accordingly, exert thyself in heart and soul so that thou mayest become a servant in this Divine Garden and be the cause of honoring and exalting the world of humanity.  AB05742

Therefore, O servant of the Intended Lord, let no obstacle prevent you from mentioning the Praised Beauty, and let no barrier deprive you from the fragrances of these days   AB05784

This kind of love is the fruit of consummate reason, for the firmer the foundation of reason and knowledge, the greater the heights that the lofty palace of love will reach  ABU3732

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the dominion of love of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them. Therefore, help ye God in the True Faith with a mighty help.  BB00004

God willing, thou must manifest such enkindlement that through the fire of thy love the hearts and minds of the people and the souls of the servants may turn toward the Beloved.  BH06478

Thou must, God willing, become so enkindled with the fire of divine love that its effects will be manifest throughout all contingent being, and lethargy and coldness shall never seize thee.   BH06203

Through the power of God's love the weak become mighty, the poor become rich, the little bird becomes a great eagle soaring on the ethereal wave, the tiny plant grows into a great palm tree.  AB07820

As to my being forbearing with some souls who are weak in faith, this springs from the Most Great Kindness, for hadst thou been harsh and hard-hearted, they would have dispersed from around thee.  AB00306

For as soon as the wick of the lamp is touched by the fire it is ignited, shedding its brilliancy all around; but although a piece of stone stands in the fire for a long while yet it does not melt.  AB08891

Ignite the fire of love in the hearts which are remiss of the mention of God that they may become awakened by the breath of God, and quickened by His Spirit in this Great Day.   AB07024

Sow a seed that will grow into a plant of love and faithfulness and adorn the rose garden of love and purity. Let the fountain of truthfulness gush forth and pass around the honey-filled cup of peace.   AB05556

Among these is attraction, and among these is enkindlement and burning with the fire of the love of God. Thereby lethargy is transformed into warmth, and coldness into the flame of the fire of oneness.  AB08907

Love gilds every object upon which we project it, and its sheen is reflected back in rays of golden light. Love thinketh no evil. By projecting thoughts only of good, we create a harmonious environment.  ABU0190

Had they properly acted upon what was mentioned before, they would surely have been enkindled with the fire of God's love in such wise that the effects of its heat would have endured eternally in the world.   BH02842

But consider this: the one who was a foreigner and alien, because of his love, became a confidant and a Companion, but the latter, though kith and kin, because of heedlessness, became alienated and estranged.  AB09478

The illumination of the world is from the light of love, else darkness would seize and destroy all. It is the primary director in the world. Glory be to God - it is the source of two opposites, namely death and life.   BH02111

By Him Who hath caused all things to speak forth His praise! Should anyone stand firm in My love and detach himself from all else but Me, he would, through one of My names, gain ascendancy over all who dwell on earth.   BH04387

From the intensity of love, the rational became mad, and the mystics became strangers to heart and soul...The fire of the love of God blazed so intensely that it consumed everything other than the Friend, from marrow to skin  AB02716

If the power of Love and Peace become predominant and supreme, their effects will be greater than the power of hate and Mars, the god of war. In the world of existence there is no power as efficacious and as penetrative as the Power of Love.   ABU0099

"By God! No created thing having His love can ever be harmed. Verily, He is the Spring that floweth from the well-spring of a Name that is great indeed. Whosoever drinketh therefrom shall fear no one, and heaven and earth cannot withstand him"  BH02265


And I beseech His ancient grace and all-encompassing favor to kindle such a fire of love in your hearts and souls that, like His lowly servant 'Abdu'l-Baha, you may set the world ablaze with its flame and make steadfast and firm every wavering soul.  AB08092


Verily, We make mention of him who hath turned unto God that the warmth of His love may be kindled in his heart in such wise that the opposition of the opposers shall not quench it, and that he may aid his Lord through the swords of wisdom and utterance.  BH11655

We beseech God that the fires of divine love may so blaze in Faran as to set the world aflame and illumine the universe, burn away every veil and curtain, and cause its heat to reach the Concourse on High and its flames to extend to the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB11383

O friend! The cause of motion is heat, and the cause of ascension is lightness. God willing, the fire of the love of God which is deposited in thy verses will become the cause of ascension and the reason for motion, and will unite the friends with the friends.  BH11852

And if a holy fire, sanctified from the divine Tree, free from flame and smoke, appears in a breast, no other cause for existence would be considered. Thus has the time of causation been completed, if you would but witness the Causer in the garment of holiness.  BH11853

The Fire of the Love of God is like unto the lightening which strikes upon the head of nature, emasculating it of its virility and leaving it fallen on the ground - a lifeless corpse. Consequently the greatest Power in the World of existence is the "Love of God"  AB04595

O friends! Like a boundless ocean, raise ye the waves of love, that the flotsam of enmity and cruelty may be cast out from this sea of fidelity, and the face of this ocean may become mirror-like, revealing the beauty of its bounty and the loftiness of its virtues.  AB02150


All things are beneficial if joined with the love of God; and without His love all things are harmful, and act as a veil between man and the Lord of the Kingdom. When His love is there, every bitterness turneth sweet, and every bounty rendereth a wholesome pleasure.   AB03123

Consider our present state and the condition of the disciples of Jesus Christ: When we remember them we are touched and moved by their love; when we think of Abraham we are touched by his love; it is this power of love that connects us with Abraham of old, with the past.   ABU1866

For love for creation is love for God, and kindness to creation is service to God. Pray and strive with heart and soul that you may become the cause of love among humanity, that you may become the cause of justice, that you may become the cause of unity between East and West.  ABU0113

However that beloved does not acknowledge or admit to the hardship, for every burden has been and is made light through love. It is love that has opened paths and unlocked doors. In an instant it traverses the East and West of the world. It is the sign of the Ancient among nations.  BH02249

if you knew how cherished you are because of your servitude to the Sacred Threshold and service to the Blessed Cause, you would surely take up an overflowing cup and become intoxicated with the wine of the love of God, singing such a melody that would set tree and stone and clod into motion.  AB02125

Such must be its intensity and heat that it will set the world aflame and burn away the veils that shroud the peoples. Let it cast its flames toward the East, causing noble souls to hasten to the field of sacrifice, and let it flash toward the West, creating mighty movements throughout that region  AB03910

In truth, love is a wondrous essence - its will floweth more freely than the will of all who dwell on earth, and its influence is more potent than the authority of kings. Its effects are manifest and its power evident. Great is He Who created it and through it made firm the connection of the world.  BH00955

Let us have love and more love, a love that melts all opposition, a love that conquers all foes, a love that sweeps away all barriers, a love that aboundeth in charity, large-heartedness, tolerance, and noble-striving, a love that triumphs over all obstacles, a boundless, resistless, sweeping love. Ah, me! Each one must be a sign of love, a sea of love, a center of love, a sun of love, a star of love, a haven of love, a pearl of love, a palace of love, a mountain of love, a world of love, a universe of love. Hast thou love? Then thy power is irresistible. Hast thou sympathy? Then all the stars will sing thy praise!  ABU2326

When love obtains a man can travel one hundred thousand miles without fatigue and enjoy it. Love renders the bitter sweet. Love renders fatigue as rest. When man exercises the power of love he is very joyful, he will obtain spiritual susceptibilities. The bounty of love is the greatest bestowal of God.   ABU2122

Man, while in this life, should endeavour to learn of the Throne of God, to serve the Holy Threshold, to seek knowledge of the other World, to soar to the Realm beyond, to become of the Kingdom--heavenly, spiritual, illumined--and to attain a temperament like unto the rose in the garden, making fragrance to the world.  AB10795

Whosoever hath the love of this Youth in his heart, God shall verily render him victorious over all who dwell upon earth and heaven, and verily God shall be the witness thereof. He shall walk upon water as he waketh upon the earth, and shall soar in the realm of the Spirit in the limitless expanse of heaven.   BH02323

Verily the Spirit through which the temple of the contingent world shall be quickened in this time is indeed the founder of peace, the spirit of affinity and the light of love. This is that whereby this being of existence shall evolve and develop and the world of humanity be adorned with the raiment of glory and honor   AB07040

Praise be to God! The blessing of love, which is accounted among the greatest of divine bestowals, exists - the world is ablaze with its fire and illumined by its light. When in equilibrium, it is the spirit animating all created things, but if it exceeds its bounds in the slightest degree, it brings destruction and obliteration.   BH00615

Though physical fire possesses an intense heat, yet the heat of the love of God hath such a wondrous potency and mighty flame that no material fire can compare with it. For while physical fire transmits its heat only to solid matter, the fire of divine love sends forth its flames to the horizons and exerts its influence in the heart of contingent being.  AB09490

By My life, he has spoken truly, for love is the sweet water of mercy for the friends, the ocean of grace for the thirsty, the light of knowledge for the seekers, everlasting life for the sincere ones, the spray of the ocean of reunion for the longing ones, and the melody of the bird of faithfulness - nay rather, the rapturous song of nearness and meeting - for the lovers.   BH00825

His signs have appeared, His traces have spread, His lights have diffused, His Word has been fulfilled, and His favor has been perfected. The lights of unity have shone forth from the dawning-places of grace; the seekers have arisen to hearken, the yearning ones have been drawn to behold, the thirsty have arrived at the flowing spring, and the servants have come to the Holy Threshold, resplendent with abundant gifts.  AB07764

It is natural that if a person listens to the tale of trials and sorrows of an oppressed soul his heart will be melted with grief, if he hears the songs and melodies of a real singer his spirit is transported with joy and ecstasy; if he hearkens to the woes and sufferings of a lover his tender sympathy will be manifested and if he consorts with a person who is set aglow with the Fire of the Love of God he will be drawn toward the beauty of the Beloved.  ABU1281

Love accomplishes strange and mighty works. Pure intention, pure deeds, the manifestations of detachment and its various aspects -- all of these emanate from this source, that is to say, from love, and become manifest, evident and visible. I know not whether love is the ruler and affection the chief, or affection the sovereign and love the chief. Whatever the case may be, the world lies conquered beneath these two. They have ever been and continue to be victorious.  BH00023

The blazing fire in his breast, kindled and ignited by the warmth of the love of God, deserves not the mention of the world as it truly is, much less the mention of this servant. A hundred thousand praises and thanks be to the Desired One of the world that He blessed that noble soul with that which engendered love in every heart. No one passed through that region except that they spoke and wrote with tongue and pen of the signs of love and affection and the conduct of that Beloved One, becoming thereby the cause of enkindling love in others.  BH09264

Today in this meeting we have an evidence of how Baha'u'llah through the power of the love of God has exercised a wonderful spiritual influence throughout the world. From the remotest parts of Persia and the Orient He has caused men to come to this table to meet with the people of the West in the utmost love and affection, union and harmony. Behold how the power of Baha'u'llah has brought the East and West together. And Abdu'l-Baha is standing, serving you. There is neither rod nor blow, whip nor sword; but the power of the love of God has accomplished this.   ABU0652

Love has its effects. It is like a tree that yields fruit in every season and brings forth leaves and fruit. Who can count its treasures and influences? Glory be to God! Without armies it conquers cities, and without ranks it captures hearts. It is mightier than any might and more glorious than any light. Its sovereignty has not been and will not be erased from the book of the world, and its power has not changed and will not change. In one respect it is the greatest mercy for creation, and in another it is supreme authority over the world of being. Blessed is he who attains unto it, its effects and its fruits!  BH11215

this insistence and greed they have for military equipment, and these thoughts they employ in expanding the science of warfare--if this striving and endeavor, this resolve and contemplation were to be spent instead on love between human beings, the connection between nations and peoples, and the unity of races, would this not be better?  ABU0135
