The Communes are the foods of the spirit.   ABU3524


"Verily, through His remembrance hearts are quickened"  BH02795

These very prayers are evidence of divine confirmations.  AB08170

ask what thou wishest of the gifts of thy Lord, the Unconstrained!  AB04920

Therefore, ask thou from the Lord of friends whatsoever thou desirest  AB08429

Thou shalt witness the effects of these bestowals in the Abha Kingdom  AB03979

Rest assured that it will bring mighty effects and heavenly confirmations  AB05683

No thing shall read this verse but God will suffice it in all things.   BB00480

Your call was heard and the fire of your love in the path of God was witnessed  BH09045

He, verily, is your helper, while the people have no one to turn to in this Day.  BH01494

"I beseech God to assist you in this. Verily my Lord aids His sincere servants"   AB04054

The hearts of all the friends rejoiced, and in particular, the heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha, when we heard of thy rising up to serve the Cause of God, and that thou hast set apart one of the rooms in thy home for meetings of the lovers of God, so that from it may ascend to the Lord of Revelation the clamour of chanted prayers.  AB11973

Remembrance of Me is a healing medicine to the souls and a light to the hearts of men  BH06095

By My Self! When it is recited, the denizens of Paradise turn toward thee to hear it.   BH02919

Supplication and prayer is conducive to the drawing near to the Court of the Almighty.  AB04804

We have answered thee with verses by which the hearts of the wise have been attracted.   BH06825

We beseech God to assist thee in all conditions. This prayer hath already been answered  BH02568

For this reason it is stated: 'Know that by the mention of God the hearts are assured.'  ABU0990

through His remembrance sorrows are lifted and mercy and joy descend from all directions   BH07865

It attracts the pure hearts, awakens the holy souls, and confers remarkable spirituality.  ABU3755

It behooveth him to beseech God at all times to make him steadfast in this momentous Cause   BH08794

If thou seekest an intimate companion for thy soul, become the companion of His remembrance  AB10624

Preserve thou the Tablet of God, then recite it - verily it shall guide thee to the ocean of joy.   BH03879

When thou art seized by the rapture of My call and intoxicated by the breezes of My revelation...   BH03749

Yes, surely sincere prayer always has its effect, and it has a great influence in the other word.   ABU3450

We have heard thy call, We have turned toward thee and sent unto thee the fragrances of revelation   BH05885

When the intoxication of My utterance taketh hold of thee, turn thy face toward the Prison and say:  BH05125

The decree that is impending, however, is such that prayer and entreaty can succeed in averting it.  BH03421

Take hold of the Tablet of God with the power that proceedeth from Him and place it upon thine eyes   BH09066

When We heard thy call and thy cry in the love of God and His meeting, We answered thee with this Tablet  BH01922

We have heard your call to God and We answer you with this Tablet from your Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower.   BH09360

so that in utter helplessness it may find heavenly power, and in complete poverty it may seek eternal wealth  AB06168

this word, which is greater in the sight of God than heaven and earth, hath been revealed especially for you   BH10066

But thy melody should be so loud as to pass over mountains and hills and reach the ears of the yearning ones   AB03212

"Thus doth the Pen of Command enjoin His handmaidens who have believed in God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise"   BH05923

"Your call reached the threshold of the Throne of the Merciful, and the divine sacred ear inclined to hear it"  BH04667

We make mention of thee with that which causeth spirits to be attracted when they hear the creaking of My Pen   BH03764

Therefore I supplicated and implored the Kingdom of Baha'u'llah and sought endless bounties for those Baha'is   AB07299

Remember God in the night season and in the days in such wise that the hearts of the heedless may be attracted.  BH02520

Verily We heard his call and answered him. We found from his words the fragrance of his love and steadfastness.  BH00912

We have sent unto thee this Tablet which God hath made the Dayspring of His loving-kindness throughout creation   BH07407

Hearken unto the call from the precincts of the Prison - verily it draweth thee unto God, the Lord of all men   BH06777

"sent thee this Tablet that it may be unto thee glad-tidings from God and preserve thee from the hosts of Satan"  BH05303

A prayer was sent before; persevere in it, for it is a key to the gates of divine favor and mercy and kindness.   BH03331

The Wronged One has heard your call and has answered you from the prison precinct, as a grace from His presence   BH02337

O my God, direct and keep Thy Servants to accomplish any deeds acceptable before Thee in the Cause of Thy unity.  AB11517

when 'Abdu'l-Baha utters the names of the beloved ones, darkness becomes light and gloom is transformed into joy   AB11762

Now I pray for thee, that the fire of love may blaze in thy heart and spiritual vibrations may appear in thy being  AB04710

And, for the tranquility and repose of the hearts, there is no other means save the commemoration of almighty God.  AB00963

Every goodly mention returneth unto Him, and verily He is the Answerer of the prayers of those who are in distress   BH08055

We read thy letter when We were in a place built in the name of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise  BH06942

We have caused thee to hear My call, which hath been the hope of them that are nigh unto God from time immemorial.   BH05516

We have mentioned him in such wise as would cause the near ones to invoke blessings upon him at morn and eventide.   BH02094

Supplication to God at morn and eve is conducive to the joy of hearts, and prayer causes spirituality and fragrance  AB04607

we have always been engaged in prayers and supplications at the Sacred Threshold, seeking confirmation and success   AB05439

And when thou wishest to dispense treatment, set thy heart toward the Abha Kingdom, entreating divine confirmations.  AB08637

We have been with thee in all conditions and heard what thou didst call upon God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds  BH02883

"We have answered him with verses that cannot be equaled by the treasures of the earth nor the wealth of all people."  BH02818

Answer Thou My prayer, O God, and fulfil My most cherished desire. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful.  BBU0007

I supplicate God to grant thee power wherewith thou wilt confront the beliefs of all regions and innumerable nations   AB05000

I rub my face in the dust of Thy luminous threshold, in humility, supplication, imploring, communing and seeking aid   AB03213

These melodies shall reach unto the Kingdom of Glory, and these songs shall cheer and gladden the Concourse on High.   AB11853

He now stands before the hands of enemies, awaiting what has been ordained for him in the preserved Tablets of glory.   BH03233

We beseech God to reinforce thee with the hosts of utterance at all times and to aid thee with the power of the Spirit   BH07312

He, verily, heard thy call and answered thee through His grace. He is, in truth, the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.   BH05795

I beseech Thee to assist me to serve Thy Cause and to ordain for me the good of the latter end and of the former time.   BH05111

There hath flowed from the Pen in your mention that which hath attracted the hearts of those who have turned unto God.   BH02248

The servant beseeches his Lord to grant them success, confirm them, and aid them with the hosts of the seen and unseen.  BH09698

Verily We have heard the call of the dove and have answered it with that which gladdens hearts and brings solace to eyes  BH06122

I swear by the Sun of divine favor that in every word is concealed a world of meanings and an ocean of grace is hidden.   BH01872

Know thou that that entreaties of the faithful at the threshold of His singleness are answered and their desires granted  AB03802

We have read thy letter before Us and heard thy cry and supplication at thy remoteness from the Dawning-Place of Lights.   BH04766

'Abdu'l-Baha supplicates and implores at the Threshold of Baha on behalf of these souls and seeks heavenly confirmations   AB12146

One goodly word and one righteous deed are, in this Day, more precious in the sight of God than all the books of the earth  BH06083

then shall thy breaths have effect upon the hearts, and attract the hearts of thy son and husband unto the Kingdom of God.  AB07835

Pray thou to God that thou mayest fill to overflowing the cup of guidance and bestow the intoxication of life everlasting.  AB08299

Prayer is the Water of Life. It is the cause of the vivification of existence and brings glad tidings and joy to the soul.  AB00308

I beseech Thee...to write down for them from Thy Most Exalted Pen that which shall profit them in every world of Thy worlds   BH06590

He beholdeth all his acts and remembrances as a single remembrance, and his state in the service of God's Cause as eternal.   BH03567

We beseech God to assist thee to drink at all times from the Kawthar of His remembrance and to remain occupied in His praise.  BH07345

When the reality of prayer and the hidden mystery appeared in the King of Days, again the cawing of the ravens was raised up.  BH03732

We have heard thy call and have answered thee with this Tablet whereby the brocade of the Book of Creation hath been adorned   BH03101

I prayed for those whose names thou hast mentioned in thy letter, asking from God confirmation and assistance in their behalf  AB02874

I beseech Thee, O Lord of Eternity and Sovereign of the nations... Thou, verily, art the Hearer, the Bestower, the All-Seeing   BH05416

O honored pilgrim, memorize this prayer and recite it at the threshold of the All-Merciful during times of joy and fragrance.   AB05441

Supplications and entreaties were made at the Most Exalted Threshold on behalf of Mr. Strakhan and healing was sought for him   AB03568

We beseech God, exalted be He, to ordain for thee through His Most Exalted Pen that which He hath destined for His chosen ones.  BH11768

The gathering that you formed in the home of the maidservant of God Dr. Pauline was a luminous assembly and a divine gathering.  AB04261

There is no call but He heareth it, and no deed but He seeth it. Verily, He is with those who love Him and make mention of Him.   BH07363

that they bow their heads in prostration at the Sacred Threshold and seek the cup of sacrifice for the error-prone 'Abdu'l-Baha   AB03490

From your letter wafted the fragrance of love. We beseech God to assist you in His remembrance, praise and service to His Cause.   BH06298

On your behalf, I bow my head and hair at the Sacred Threshold and anoint them with that pure dust, and I visit the Holy Shrine.   AB04878

Verily, Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.   BH08065

Praise be to God, the prayers and entreaties of Abdul-Baha in the Abha Kingdom were accepted and you became successful in service.  AB03987

Whenever you go to visit the Holy Tomb you must implore and supplicate that God may surround you with his invisible confirmations.  ABU1859

O my Lord! Enable Your servants to do what You love and are pleased with, and ordain for them the good of this world and the next.   BH03598

In the spirit of humility and supplication do I beg and implore at the Divine Threshold and seek for you assistance and providence.  AB02431

I hope through the eternal bounty of the Lord that his honor Isma'il will, like Gabriel, deliver the message of the Supreme Concourse  AB03345

Can any of these circumstances be changed by prayer? Yes, prayer might prevent the strong wind from blowing out the light of the lamp  ABU3511

Through His remembrance the faces of His handmaidens who have turned unto Him and His servants who have turned unto Him are illumined   BH02902

We beseech Him to assist you in all conditions to remember and praise Him and follow His Cause. Verily He is powerful over all things.   BH05699

My turning toward thee cannot be equaled by the treasures of the world nor by what hath been witnessed and mentioned among the nations   BH04124

Whoso hears the Call with true hearing, the veils of the world shall not prevent him, nor shall the mists of the nations withhold him.   BH03794

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne, by the penetrating power of Thy Most Sweet Call and the scratching of Thy Most Exalted Pen   BH03731

I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through which the Hour appeared with its signs, the earth was cleft asunder and its mountains were crushed   BH03298

At the threshold of the Self-Subsisting Lord, I have offered humble supplications and beseeched new confirmation and assistance for you.  AB12224

Such must be the faithful one who, at such a sacred threshold, opens his tongue in prayer and seeks wondrous grace and glorious triumph.  AB07344

Recite these prayers during the nights as ye are witnesses. All your desires shall be fulfilled thereby, if ye believe and are convinced.  BB00358

so that he may hold his head high before friend and stranger alike and become intimate and in harmony with the birds of Your rose garden.  AB07069

prayer is the ascension of spirits and the lamp of the hearts of the righteous. It is the living waters of the paradise of good-pleasure   AB06076

Verily He answereth whosoever calleth upon Him and turneth unto whosoever hath turned unto Him. He, verily, is the Near One, the Watchful.  BH08712

O my Lord! Thou seest that he hath turned toward Thee and appeared before Thy face, and the might of the wicked ones hath not deterred him  BH06482

We heard his call and answered him that the rapture of the Call might seize him and draw him with his heart near unto My luminous horizon.  BH05753

We have heard thy call and that wherewith thou didst commune with God, thy Lord, and We have answered thee through this perspicuous Book.   BH05179

We beseech God to assist them with the hosts of the seen and the unseen, and to aid them to champion His Cause, the Mighty, the Wondrous.   BH04283

When I reach the Shrine of Baha'u'llah, I shall lay my head on the Sacred Threshold and beseech confirmation for every one of the friends.  ABU1379

We beseech God that through thy remembrance and supplication He may raise up servants in the earth. Verily He is the Powerful, the Mighty.   BH04492

We have heard thy call and have answered thee with that which shall endure as long as the Kingdom of God, the Lord of Lords, shall endure.   BH03042

Wert thou to gather all that hath been revealed for thee, thou wouldst find it a book wherein every word indicateth thy Lord's loving care.  BH01030

O Lord! Make them signs of Thy Kingdom, evidences of Thy Manifestation, proofs of Thy effulgence and testimonies of Thy greatness and power  AB02284

From every direction rises the cry of praise and glorification, and from every region ascends the anthem of sanctification and celebration.  AB01062

We give you glad tidings of God's loving-kindness and grace, and make mention unto you of verses which, when revealed, perfumed all regions.   BH02888

Consider the divine gift, that the love of God has attracted you and made you intimate companions in the mention of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB09465

He will assist you through a power that proceedeth from Him and ordain for you that which shall endure as long as His own kingdom shall endure  BH06892

When ye find the fragrances of My utterance and drink the choice wine of My bounty, turn your faces toward My horizon and say: [prayer follows]  BH02053

When the letter was read, supplications and entreaties were made at the threshold of the Divine Unity, and boundless confirmations were sought   AB03522

According to thy wish, I prayed and implored at the Threshold of Oneness and asked for thee this great Blessing and these Illustrious Bounties.  AB00666

Send down upon me Thy mercy, and write down for me what Thou hast written down for Thy chosen ones. Powerful art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee.   BH09498

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, not to disappoint me of that which is with Thee. Verily, Thou art the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth.   BH07751

O Lord! Thou knowest that the fragrance of Thy utterance attracted me and the light of Thy countenance took from my grasp the reins of patience   BH04516

When thou hast attained unto the Tablet of God and found the fragrance of loving-kindness, say with wisdom and utterance: O people of the world!  BH03895

In the middle of the night at dawn I supplicate and implore at the threshold of the All-Knowing God and beg for aid, grace and boundless bounty   AB05647

We hope that through the favors of the Self-Subsisting, Living Lord, the effects of the blessings of this proxy pilgrimage will become manifest   AB03502

Write to him that he should recite prayers and supplicate to the Abha Kingdom, and know with certainty that these difficulties will be resolved.  AB02915

O my Glorious Lord! Assist through Thy power him who bears the name of the Friend, and grant him mighty victory through Thy conquering strength   AB03309

Though under the sword, We make mention of the servants with that which shall profit them and draw them nigh unto God, the Mighty, the Peerless.   BH03551

The Lord declareth: He that is afflicted seeketh not wellness and shall not arise, and he that beareth the sign shall not attain unto salvation.   BH01353

Raise thou such melodies and harmony in Green Acre that may reach unto the Kingdom of ABHA and cause joy and exaltation in the angels of heaven!   AB03740

He who hath awakened at the call of his Lord and arisen to serve Him - upon him shall the denizens of the Supreme Paradise bestow their blessings   BH06045

thy letter hath come before Us and We have heard thy call therefrom. We have answered thee with a Tablet before which all tablets have bowed down   BH02719

Glorify thy Lord with praise in the morning and the evening, at sunset and at dawn. Thus doth the Wronged One command thee from this remote spot.   BH02484

We beseech God to give them to drink from the Kawthar of His utterance from the hand of His bounty - a Kawthar that brings joy and dispels grief.   BH02180

Send down upon them, O my God, from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will cause to grow from their hearts the plants of Thy knowledge and wisdom  BH00915

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Command through which the ocean of Thy knowledge surged...to ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee   BH11157

Grieve not at anything. Remember thy Lord. Verily, He heareth the call of whosoever turneth unto Him. He is the Guardian of them that remember Him.   BH07631

Through the waves of the sea of Thy bounty, that My remembrance and My turning and My attention might be adorned with the ornament of Thy acceptance   BH06349

"Remember your Lord, the All-Merciful, in such wise that the limbs of those who have disbelieved in God, the Lord of all worlds, may quake with fear"  BH04865

"We beseech God...that He may aid thee and assist thee in all conditions, and manifest through thee that which will gladden hearts and console eyes."  BH04600

By God! We have heard thy call in the nights and at dawn. Therefore have We preserved thee that thou mayest hear this Call both secretly and openly.   BH04559

We have remembered thee on this night and have sent down unto thee clear verses that thou mayest read them and turn through them to thy Ancient Lord.  BH02349

turn unto God, bowing in humbleness and praying to Him, while bearing every ordeal, contented under all conditions and thankful in every difficulty.   AB07092

"I beseech God to strengthen your loins, to fortify your backs, to purify your inner beings and to sweeten your consciences at all times and moments"  AB00778

Beseech ye God to protect His friends from harmful deeds and to confirm them in that which befitteth His days. Verily He is powerful over all things.   BH03601

Purify your deeds for God's sake that God may deliver you from the fire which has been kindled in the depths of hell by God's decree for all eternity.   BH04713

I beseech Thee, O King of Kings and Merciful to the servants...to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise and enable me to do what befitteth Thy days.   BH04232

The letter indicates the transformative power of prayer and spiritual intoxication through the metaphor of being "intoxicated with the cup of guidance"  AB09585

this servant's entreaties and supplications reached the threshold of the Divine Unity, and after the darkness of tribulation, the dawn of hope appeared  AB04536

Thou didst hear her call and answer her prayer and raise her to the horizon of the heaven of Thy providence and settle her in the vicinity of Thy mercy  AB02640

Surely that melody will set the Western regions in motion and unite the hearts of the five continents of the world, demolishing the foundation of war.   AB01576

This is Thy Call which hath been raised from the right hand of the throne of Thy grandeur, whereby it hath drawn unto itself the hearts of Thy servants.  BH10826

If thou art successful in reciting that which hath been mentioned, assuredly thou shalt not be deprived of the outpourings of the Sun of inner meanings.  BH02153

Read always the supplications. Turn always thy attention toward God. Be always stirred with divine Fragrances; then eternal happiness will be thy share.  ABU1191

trust in the favors of thy Lord; supplicate unto Him and beseech in the middle of the night and at early morn just as a needy and captive one beseeches.   AB06490

Lord! Answer his prayer and hear his call...that they may continue journeying on the exemplary path and become independent of others in this worldly life  AB00850

O Lord! Deprive them not of the outpourings of the ocean of Thy bounty, nor keep them far from the horizon whence the sun of Thy favors hath shone forth.   BH05399

We have heard thy call and have answered thee with truth from this noble horizon. His knowledge encompasses the heavens and the earth. He hears and sees.   BH04181

O heaven, rain down! O cloud, pour forth! O storm clouds, thunder and flash! O horizons, be fragrant! O breeze of God, blow! O Spirit of God, be stirred!   AB05448

Let us pray to God that the breath of the Holy Spirit may again give hope and refreshment to the people, awakening in them a desire to do the Will of God.   ABU3535

Always engage in prayer and occupy yourself with the mention of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha, and at midnight utter "Ya Baha, Ya Baha" - you will witness mighty things.  AB00653

Beseech God that thou mayest taste the sweetness of His utterance, for whoever hath found it hath seen himself detached from the world and all that is therein  BH02897

Then send down upon them that which will enable them to achieve that whereby their remembrance shall endure through the perpetuity of Thy names and attributes.  BH06661

By God! Were all things to hear but one note of His melodies with the ear of their inmost nature, they would surely be drawn unto the court of glorified might.  BH01727

at the Sacred Threshold we have been and are beseeching the descent of favors and bounties upon that one attracted to the fragrances of the gardens of oneness   AB04468

Rain down upon him the verses of generosity, and overshadow him with the clouds of Thy mighty grace and [manifest] favor, O Thou Most Merciful of the merciful!  AB04954

I beseech Thee by His greatness and His sovereignty and His might and His power that Thou make me to be of those who have aided Thy Cause and spoken Thy praise   BH04159

Remember thy Lord in the darkness of night and at the break of dawn, that God may make thee one of the leaves that were witnessed upon the Branch of the Cause.   BH03098

When God confirms thee in this, rest assured that thy Lord will inspire thee with words of truth and cause thee to speak through the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  AB00553

How often, O my God, has he communed with You in the darkness of nights, seeking refuge at the gate of Your oneness and assistance through Your might and power   AB12141

"occupy thyself night and day with humble devotions and supplications. Show forth utter neediness and helplessness, and become an intimate companion in prayer."  AB09175

Thy call hath drawn me near, and Thy grace hath confirmed me, and the light of Thy manifestation hath guided me to Thy straight path and Thy mighty announcement   BH05563

The supplication which was previously submitted was read before the Face. After the Most Pure Hearing listened and hearkened, these gracious words were revealed   BH02452

By Him Who holds my soul in His hand, since this visitation will be performed with utmost sincerity, it is greater than the worship of all humanity and the jinn.  AB03165

Mohammad said "Prayer is a ladder, by which every one can ascend to heaven." And if one's heart is cut from the world, their prayers are the ascension to heaven.  ABU1226

Your prayers and supplications for others will surely have effect. When hearts are united and turned toward the Abha Kingdom, illumination will certainly result.  AB11374

Would that the people of the world could know what has appeared in creation, and would that the servants could recognize what I witnessed of the signs of my Lord   BH02999

We have remembered thee with such remembrance that the Concourse on High hath hastened from all directions to hearken to My sweetest call from the prison of Akka.  BH02822

Mr. Kenny chanted the words with utmost sweetness in a pleasing tone, and from the Tablets and prayers that were intoned, the Supreme Concourse was set in motion   AB00539

Today the hosts of the Supreme Concourse in the Most Glorious Kingdom have formed their ranks, and all are waiting to assist and support whoever enters the arena   ABU1259

Blessed is the ear that turneth toward it and heareth therefrom its sighing and lamentation at what hath befallen its Planter from the hosts of the malicious ones   BH04382

God will preserve thee thereby from every ailment and disease, even as He hath preserved thee in truth through a sovereignty that hath encompassed all the worlds.   BH03721

When the wine of revelation has seized thee and the breezes of inspiration have attracted thee, say: "O Lord of all beings and Sovereign of days! I beseech Thee..."  BH05483

Endeavor and supplicate and pray God that, day unto day, thy firmness and steadfastness may grow and that thy countenance may radiate through the light of guidance.  AB07837

And the thanksgiving for this bounty is that thou shouldst be raised up with divine attributes, engage in teaching the Cause of God, and worship the divine Covenant   AB05151

May He assist thee with the confirmations of His most glorious Kingdom and aid thee with the assistance of His most exalted Horizon amidst the concourse of creation.  AB02008

I ask Thee, by the glory of Thy Cause and the power of Thy Word, graciously to assist them that have arisen to discharge what hath been enjoined upon them in Thy Book   BH09404

We have repeatedly heard thy call. He is the Hearer of every mention by every mentioner and the call of every caller, and likewise He heareth the breath of every soul.  BH05574

the breaths of eternity may take hold of him from the direction of this Pen, and sever him from the allusions of them who have disbelieved and joined partners with God  BH05029

The Call hath been raised from this most exalted station. Blessed is he who hath heard and attained; he is indeed among those who are nigh unto God, the Lord of Lords.  BH00725

Whoever recites this prayer with complete humility, supplication and entreaty will cause joy and delight to the heart of this servant, and it has the effect of meeting  AB03082

Whenever you are supplicating ask confirmations for them...Therefore, you should supplicate and pray for such friends as these and implore confirmations and assistance  ABU1276

I beseech Thee to assist me in serving Thee and in aiding Thy Cause. O Lord! Thou seest me turning toward the horizon of Thy grace, detached from all else besides Thee   BH02464

We beseech Him, blessed and exalted be He, to ordain for thee that which will exalt thee through His Name, and cause thee to drink from the Kawthar of life at all times  BH01987

"And when thou departest from that land and enterest another, perform ablutions, and while washing, call upon God, thy Lord and the Lord of all that is seen and unseen"  BH01025

Night and day, morning and evening, even in the darkness of night and middle of day, I supplicate and beseech with utmost humility at the threshold of the Divine Unity   AB06447

By God's life! Through the presence of his letter, God ordained for him in the Crimson Book, from His Most Exalted Pen, that which none has discovered save His own Self.  BH04310

O faithful servant of God, truly you have witnessed the power of the confirmations of the Most Great Name and observed the influence of the breathings of the Holy Spirit.  AB01909

"It is said by Christ (Glory be to Him!) 'Pray that ye may not enter into temptation.' Now, it is incumbent upon thee to pray! It is incumbent upon thee to beseech God!"   AB01293

We beseech God, exalted be He, to aid him and His loved ones in that which He loveth and is pleased with, and to ordain for them good in the hereafter and the former life   BH02355

That the breaths of inspiration may draw him to the most exalted station...I beseech Thee...to ordain for this servant of Thine the good of this world and the world to come  BH03383

"By God! Should one who is in affliction or grief read this Tablet with absolute sincerity, God will dispel his sadness, solve his difficulties and remove his afflictions."  BH02022

Light a candle in their hearts and make it a piercing flame against every satan, so that Your divine light may blaze forth and burn away the veil of the darkness of doubts.  AB03369

Grant that from the clouds of Thy mercy may fall copious rain so that the trees of our lives may bring forth fruit and we may attain the most cherished desire of our hearts.  AB04105

Thus if at every moment you were to open a hundred thousand tongues and with each tongue offer a hundred thousand thanks, you would not fulfill the thanks due for this gift.  AB01463

"Thou art He Who hath opened the door of hope unto all who are in earth and heaven and ordained for Thy servants and Thy handmaidens that which draweth them nigh unto Thee."   BH05946

Upon Our being seated, Ra?iyih, upon her be My glory, attained Our presence on thy behalf, laid the table of God's bounty and in thy name extended hospitality to all present.  BH03509

The glory shining forth from the horizon of the heaven of My mercy be upon thee and upon My Afnans who have circled round My Cause and arisen to serve Me amongst My servants.   BH09168

We beseech God to make you enkindled with the fire of His love and speaking His praise among His servants, such that through your call the call of the world will be raised up.  BH06938

You should praise God that you have such a luminous youth as Mr. Mirza Abdul-Ghani who, on your behalf, seeks the confirmations of the Holy Spirit at the two Holy Thresholds.   AB03422

O Lord! Make bright his morn, illumine his lamp, loose his tongue, make manifest his exposition, and make him a sign of Thy great mercy. Verily, Thou art the Hearer of Prayer   AB01461

The effect of those prayers was so great that I would weep over them. Suddenly I observed that I can understand the significance of the book without being taught by any soul.   ABU2755

O handmaiden of God! Persist in this radiant gathering and turn with your spirit and heart to the divine Kingdom and spread mention of your Lord's mercy among the handmaidens   AB01022

When I dictate a supplication my whole being is absorbed in the mercy and tenderness of God. I am deeply effected and my heart is melted in the contemplation of divine Beauty.  ABU2472

"We beseech God to protect thee and to aid thee with the hosts of the seen and the unseen, and to send down upon thee from the clouds of mercy the rains of blessing and grace"   BH02460

Through it the sincere ones behold what hath been veiled from the eyes of the people, and those near unto God turn toward His sanctified and mighty and all-knowing countenance   BH02347

Make thy provision reliance upon Him, and thy work that which draweth thee nigh unto Him, and thy strength that which maketh thee purified from the mention of aught else but Him  BH07150

And therein We opened the gates of reunion to the faces of the loved ones, and gave all to drink from the ocean of Thy reunion and the springs of Thy nearness and good-pleasure   BH03632

Blessed is the soul that passes by it perfumed fragrances from your prosperous resting place and seeks success and prosperity through prayer to God at your renowned burial place  AB01162

Therefore the hope from all divine friends is that night and day they raise hands of supplication to the court of the Self-Sufficient Lord and seek confirmation for this servant  AB00809

when the prayers and supplications addressed at dawn and at sunrise ascend to the Throne of the Almighty, then will the effect of the Mashrekol-Azkar be made evident and manifest  ABU1905

by Thy Command through which the ocean of Thy knowledge surged before the faces of Thy creation and the breezes of the spring of Thy mercy wafted over the hearts of Thy loved ones   BH07777

"Furthermore the obligatory prayer and the fast enable human beings to become more meditative and endow them with remembrance. Furthermore, they protect man from tests and trials."  AB01907

I beseech Thee by the pearls of Thy knowledge and wisdom and the mysteries of Thy Cause which are therein, to ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee in all conditions.   BH05987

O friends! The call of the Concourse on High is extended - how long until the voices of glorification and sanctification from the people of this world reach the Kingdom of existence?  AB05681

We beseech God to cause you to speak His mention at all times and to assist through you those who have turned to His countenance in accordance with what He loves and is pleased with.   BH08494

Make this food heavenly and make those assembled here of the hosts of Thy Supreme Concourse so that they may become life-giving and the cause of the enlightenment of the world of man   ABU3118

Verily He remembereth him who remembereth Him, and answereth him who raiseth his hands in supplication toward His exalted heaven. Thy Lord is, in truth, the All-Hearing, the Answering.  BH07248

We have heard your call and answered you, and recognized your turning to Us. We have sent unto you that from which you will find the fragrance of your Lord's mercy, the All-Bountiful.   BH05661

Be thankful that you have been mentioned before the Face, and this Tablet has been revealed for you from which the fragrance of the All-Merciful has wafted throughout all possibility.   BH05099

from [recent] Tablets to that country (America). They gladdened and exhilarated the friends and imparted happiness to the souls. They granted sight to the eyes and hearing to the ears.  AB05645

By Thy mighty sovereignty! If Thou shouldst raise me to the highest horizon of glory... none of these would equal even a tenth part of a particle of servitude at Thy exalted threshold   AB01539

I beseech Thee by the Light whereby the horizon of the heaven of Thy bounty was illumined, to send down upon this handmaiden of Thine mercy and healing through Thy generosity and grace.  BH10292

This is not the day for questions. It behoveth every soul, when he heareth the Call, to say: 'Here am I, here am I, O Lord of Names!' and 'Here am I, here am I, O Desire of the worlds!'  BH01112

Whosoever with a contrite heart prays and begs from Baha'u'llah help and assistance he will be aided even if he is not a Baha'i only that he is sincere and whole-hearted in his prayers   ABU3502

Turn with thy heart toward the holy direction, that the breezes of fellowship that blow from the direction of thy Lord's Throne, the All-Merciful, in the Pole of Paradise, may stir thee   BH03658

Therefore you too should read this letter in such a state that its warmth may influence the hearts of the yearning ones of God and become a source of solace to the hearts of the friends   AB07260

O Lord! Illumine their faces with the lights of confirmation and enlighten their hearts with the signs of unity, and make them aflame with the fire of Thy love in the realm of detachment  AB06010

Whatever supplications have been made in the hidden mysteries and secrets at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty, there is hope through His glorious bounty that they have been answered.   AB00622

O my handmaid! Hear My call, by which the souls of the pure ones are stirred, and then the realities of the holy ones, and by the call of God the hearts of the sincere ones are attracted.  BH07496

We heard thy call and answered thee, and sent thee a Tablet that was sealed with the seal of glory. Through it the mountains passed away and the earth shone with the light of the Command   BH03597

" At the time of the dominion, might and power of the enemies, prayers were openly offered. Now, praise be to God, through divine assistance and favor they are victorious and triumphant."  AB12300

There is no doubt that the gates of your Lord's mercy are opened before the faces of the sincere ones. The divine fragrances only perfume the nostrils of those who are firm and steadfast.  AB07032

Make your feet firm; withstand the creeds (or multitudes); chant the Book; and explain mysteries through an inspiration on the part of your Exalted Lord, the possessor of glory and honor!  AB04540

O Lord! Assist Your servant who is assured of Your signs and who proclaims Your glad tidings to diffuse Your fragrances, spread Your breezes, manifest Your traces and radiate Your lights   AB01715

that the breezes of My remembrance might waft over them from the paradise of My loving-kindness, and My melodies might attract them to the heaven of My mercy and the atmosphere of My favors  BH04847

all the friends of God should pray for him and supplicate and beseech the Most Glorious Kingdom that he may remain protected and preserved in the shelter of the Ancient Beauty's protection   AB01645

Thus have We revealed unto thee the Word of Truth; taught thee the paths of guidance; and made known unto thee the ways of godliness, that thou mayst discern clearly the nature of the Cause   BH03983

By Thy leave they are effective, and without it they neither nourish nor satisfy, and thus shall it ever be. Take our hands, for we are helpless. Bestow Thy grace, for we are poor and lowly.   BH01046

and sing with such a voice that the dwellers of the Supreme Concourse will open their tongues in praise and seek confirmation from ancient grace, recent bounty, and the gifts of great triumph   AB04190

By the Sun of the Kingdom of utterance! If the scratching of the Supreme Pen were truly heard by an attentive ear, all people would leave their homes and cry out "Here am I, O God, here am I!"   BH00829

The angels and the Spirit pray for them by His leave. We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to aid them and assist them in a manner befitting their connection to His firm and mighty Cause.  BH11604

I beseech Thee by the Word through which Thou didst create all beings and didst manifest all existence to send down upon me from the clouds of Thy gifts that which will profit me in Thy worlds.   BH08140

Then enable me, O my God, to aid Thy Cause and assist Thy Faith, that I may sacrifice my spirit, my soul and my body before Thy Beauty and in beholding the lights of the glory of Thine eternity   BH07165

We beseech God to purify the servants from the world and to turn them toward the Dawning-Place of His Most Beautiful Names. Verily, He is the Hearer of Prayer and He encompasses all the worlds.   BH05301

"when prayers are offered to the Kingdom of divine mysteries...then shall the believers rejoice, and their hearts be dilated, overflowing with the love of the ever-living and self-subsisting God"  AB02812

The text demonstrates the power of supplication, particularly in: "O my Lord! Thou seest the poor one clinging to the hem of Thy robe - decree for him what Thou hast decreed for Thy chosen ones."   BH10053

Thus have We imparted unto thee that whereby the hearts of those who have turned toward the Countenance with humility and reverence may be quickened. We have ordained for thee a reward unfailing.   BH03871

O thou their lord their creator endow them with adornments, give them freedom and vouchsafe unto them dignity, teach them love and compassion so that these sanctified souls may love all the world.  AB03783

No soul weepeth for God in the Manifestations of God's Cause and the Exponents of God's remembrance but that Paradise is assured for him, and the sea of fire is forbidden him, through God's grace.   BB00103

O Lord! Make him a brilliant lamp, a gleaming ray, a radiant light, and a shining star in the horizon of knowledge, guiding unto righteousness and calling out in Thy name in every region and place   AB03892

And whenever I read a name, my soul was gladdened and I supplicated Thee to make him a firebrand from the fire of Thy love and a breath from the morn of salvation through the outpouring of Thy mercy  AB00725

Shouldst thou ask for all who are on earth, We would surely fulfill thy need and would send down from the heaven of My generosity, for each one of them, the signs of My grandeur and My clear tokens.   BH00417

O people of God! Aid your Lord, the All-Merciful, through wisdom and utterance, and through the hosts of goodly deeds and character, that the fragrance of His good-pleasure may be diffused therefrom.  BH01243

O God! I bear witness before Thee to that which Thy knowledge encompasseth concerning me, and I write by Thy leave for him who seeketh at Thy gate, for verily Thou art the All-Knowing of all things.   BB00158

Of necessity, in gatherings of four or five thousands souls, I would first concentrate on the Blessed Beauty and then begin speaking. Confirmations would pour forth and then My voice would be raised.  ABU3659

This servant, in the nights and days, hath besought and continues to beseech relief for that beloved one, and God willing, his relief is near, for His loved ones and friends have no purpose save Him.   BH01373

Verily I ask God to protect thee from the waves of tests and storms of trial until thou becomest firm in the Cause of thy Lord--a firmness whereby thou be enabled to withstand all nations and peoples.   AB00837

From this account and testimony, the heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha found spirit and fragrance...Through the grace and bounty of the Blessed Beauty, it is hoped that we may arise to serve as we should and must  AB00789

I beseech Thee to assist me in serving Thee, in making mention of Thee, and in praising Thee amongst Thy creatures, and to make me steadfast in Thy love and content with what Thou hast ordained for me   BH05110

Should adversity touch thee, seek the aid of My Name, the Helper, the Assisting, the All-Powerful, and through it God will dispel the affliction of those who have believed and are among the steadfast.   BH00724

Send down therefore, O my God, upon them that which will make them mighty through Thy power and exalted through Thy sovereignty, that the oppression of the oppressors may not hold them back from Thy path  BH07109

Hadst thou been present at the time of its revelation, the attraction of revelation would have seized thee in such wise that thou wouldst have found thyself soaring to a station at which eyes are dazzled  BH02943

They who turned toward the throne after My arrival in the Most Great Prison - the Concourse on High pray for them and perceive from them the sweet fragrances of the mercy of their Lord, the All-Merciful.  BH02513

The petition of that beloved of the heart hath in truth produced a mighty effect, and evident fruits have appeared therefrom. The passage of time shall not alter these fruits, nor change their freshness.  BH01471

I do supplicate God to confirm that spiritual assembly...and I beseech Him to assist them and thee to that whereby man ascends the highest and noblest station of excellence and the loftiest apex of honor  AB04932

Know thou the value of the utterance of the All-Merciful, and preserve and read the blessed Tablet, that perchance through the attraction of the Call thou mayest attain unto that which God hath purposed.   BH07543

By Thy glory! Were I to render Thee thanks throughout the duration of Thy Kingdom and Thy dominion, I would find myself powerless to repay that wherewith Thou hast favored me through Thy grace and bounty   BH07118

My hope is that you will serve the Kingdom together in perfect fellowship and unity and be the cause of that dark region becoming illumined and the fragrances of the garden of the Kingdom being diffused.   AB01899

O Lord! Verily, he is the captive of Thy bestowals, the protector of Thy servants, the seeker of refuge at Thy door, and the intimate companion of Thy loved ones. Enable him to achieve that which is good.  AB07175

We beseech God to attract them through His verses, to draw them nigh unto the court of His glory, and to sanctify them from that which beseemeth not His loved ones. Verily, He is powerful over all things.   BH09640

O young one! Call upon your Lord, for We hear what you supplicate to your Creator. He will answer you and every destitute one who has become poor before his Lord, and every one who is denied and deprived.   BH08064

Therefore do I beseech the loved ones of God wherever they might be to beg of Him with tears, to supplicate Him and implore the hosts of the Concourse of Abha to aid and assist them from the unseen world.   AB01013

He remembereth him who remembereth Him, nay rather, He remembereth him who wisheth to remember Him, for His remembrance preceded the world even as His mercy preceded all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH00101

As much as you can, diffuse the divine fragrances in this mighty Cause and demonstrate the power of steadfastness, so that you may witness the assistance and favor of the Divine Unity from every direction.   AB03805

at all times when we attain the presence of and are honored at the Holy Shrine, we are occupied with your remembrance and thought, beseeching and supplicating from the manifest bounty of the Ancient Beauty   AB02728

raised up illumined souls from their resting places, gathered together a company of the All-Merciful and granted them companionship, united a band of divine ones and made excellent their comings and goings   AB01093

We have heard thy cry and the sighing of thy heart in thy separation from God, the Lord of the worlds, and We have heard thy lamentation for My Name, the H. Verily thy Lord is the All-Hearing, the Answerer.   BH01671

This is the key to all good: "And whosoever feareth God, He will appoint for him a way out, and will provide for him from where he expecteth not. And whosoever putteth his trust in God, He will suffice him."  AB04676

In this glorious age the divine confirmations are like unto the rays of the sun. The hearts and souls are like unto the surface of crystal. The clearer the crystal the greater the refulgence of the sunlight.  AB01832

God, exalted be His glory, hath remembered and will remember His servants and handmaidens. Forgetfulness doth not overtake Him - His station is sanctified above forgetfulness, let alone His Most Holy Essence.  BH05319

O Muhammad-'Ali! When thou attainest unto My Tablet and the trace of My Pen, say: My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink the choice wine of Thy utterance from the hand of Thy bounty...   BH03015

When thou hast been privileged to hear the call of thy Lord and hast been honored with the Tablet sent unto thee, arise from thy place, turning unto Him, and say: Praise be unto Thee, O Lord of those who know!  BH11757

I implore Thee, O my God, by the Lights of Thy unity and the Repositories of Thy revelation, to send down from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will cleanse the hearts of all such as have turned towards Thee.  BH04460

Were my flesh to be boiled in the cauldron of hate, the smell which it would send forth would rise towards Thee and cry out: "Where art Thou, O Lord of the worlds, Thou One Desire of them that have known Thee!"  BH02462

Prayer asks for divine assistance to "strengthen him with mighty power...guide through him every seeker, heal through him every sick one, quench through him every thirst, strengthen through him every weak one"   AB04624

One night I was so hemmed in by My anxieties that I had no other recourse than to recite and repeat over and over again a prayer of the Bab which I had in My possession, the recital of which greatly calmed Me.   ABU3342

Gather the people upon the shore of this sea, then impart unto them what God hath imparted unto thy heart, that they may detach themselves from the worlds and turn with their whole being to the direction of God   BH02584

O God! Remove from before us the veils of Thy glory and the pavilions of Thy holiness, that nothing may veil me from the countenance of Thine eternity, the presence of Thy Self, and the sovereignty of Thy might.  BB00065

He whom the grace of Thy mercy aideth, though he be but a drop, shall become the boundless ocean, and the merest atom which the outpouring of Thy loving-kindness assisteth, shall shine even as the radiant star.   AB06012

We beseech God to assist you in your current endeavors and aid you in that which He loveth and is pleased with. Verily, He is the Protector of the sincere ones and the Answerer of the prayers of the supplicants.   BH01111

Thus have We commanded thee in standing and sitting, that thou mayest speak forth in all conditions this Announcement at which all existence hath been shaken, save whom thy Lord, the Mighty, the Loving, willeth.   BH00861

O God! Remove from before us the veils of Thy glory and the pavilions of Thy holiness, that nothing may veil me from the countenance of Thine eternity, the presence of Thy Self, and the sovereignty of Thy might.   BB00065

If you pray for pure earth to become green and verdant, it will be answered, but if you pray for a rock to become a flower garden and meadow, it lacks the capacity. The acceptance of prayer depends upon capacity.  AB08782

The meeting of worship that thou didst establish will undoubtedly bring important results. It will become the cause of promotion of the Cause of God and the motive of firmness and steadfastness, unity and concord   AB02985

Upon receipt of the first prayer of visitation you should, with several others on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha, intend to visit the luminous resting place of that one ascended to God and perform the visitation by proxy.  AB12126

We have heard thy call, and the cry of thy heart, and the yearning of thy soul in thy love for thy Lord...The servant who is present hath come and read what thou hast spoken and called out and whispered and praised  BH08593

Grieve not over the separation. Be thou vocal in the remembrance of the Adored One by night and by day. He, verily, draweth nigh whom He willeth through His sovereignty. He is, in truth, the Almighty, the Powerful.  BH03864

We beseech God, glorified and mighty be He, to guide those lost in the valley of error to the resplendent horizon of guidance, and to lead those who thirst in the desert of bewilderment to the ocean of recognition.   BH06297

The breezes of grace and the winds of divine mercy are wafting with such intensity that neither can my motionless pen describe it, nor my weary tongue express it, nor can anyone comprehend it save His exalted Self.   BH00455

Through His remembrance souls find peace and the hearts of them that remember are gladdened. Indeed His remembrance is better than whatsoever hath been created in the realm of existence, wert thou of them that know.   BH01976

O God! O Beloved of the hearts of those who believe in Thy unity! Assist the Afnan of the Tree of Thy oneness to exalt Thy Word amongst Thy creatures... preserve them beneath the shadow of the wing of Thy protection   AB03844

Verily, through the call of God are drawn the hearts of the pure ones, and were all who are in the heavens and earth to hear it, they would detach themselves from all things and turn toward the precincts of the Throne   BH03191

These signs will surely become manifest in your faces, these light will shine within your hearts, the splendor of oneness will envelop you, and your brows will glitter with the rays shining from the Kingdom of El-ABHA.  AB01650

The photograph of all your radiant faces was observed and brought the utmost joy and gladness. Praise be to God that your faces are illumined with the light of guidance and your hearts are attracted to the love of God.  AB02205

Through the reality of God's essential unity shall thy meetings be made to flourish. Beseech thou God that He kindle within thee the torch of His mercy and enable thee to shine brightly in the company of the Concourse.  AB07459

After perusal and reading, it was taken to the Most Exalted Station and the Most Holy, Luminous, and Resplendent Spot, and was presented before the countenance of the Lord of Names, attaining the honor of His attention.  BH00056

O Mustafa, say: Praise be unto Thee, O my Lord, the Most Glorious, for having caused me to hear Thy call and making me present before the throne of Thy grandeur, and for having conversed with me without veil or barrier.  BH06478

These are verses of the Spirit which We cast upon you that through them may be quickened the hearts of those who have detached themselves unto God, and that they may be made pure and luminous by the lights of this Dawn.   BH02767

The ignorance and folly of the servants have become the cause and reason for abasement. We must, with the utmost lowliness and supplication, beseech the Self-Sufficing Lord for that which is the cause of victory and joy.  BH01379

We beseech God, exalted be He, to exalt you through His Name, to draw you nigh through His grace, and to make you the ensigns of His remembrance amidst His creation and the standards of His justice amongst His servants.   BH01003

I beseech Thee by Thy Command through which Thou didst create all beings, manifest all things, and bid all to that which draweth them nigh unto Thee, profiteth them in Thy worlds, and abideth with them in all conditions.  BH00733

Therefore, O companions of `Abdu'l-Baha, offer your prayers with heart and soul and seek the wine of the most great gift. Haply we may each receive a portion from that sea, and be granted a share of that gracious favor.   AB01668

Whenever I find a trace of them or someone gives me a clue about them, I become infinitely happy and, adding to my zeal, I continue my indefatigable search. I pray to God that He may give me many such jewels in America.   ABU1799

my request of the divine friends, especially the Hands of the Cause of God, is that they supplicate day and night to the Kingdom of the Blessed Beauty and seek aid, protection and shelter for 'Abdu'l-Baha in this journey   AB01424

The one who is sick may be in the East, and the healer in the West, and they may not have been acquainted with each other - but as soon as that Holy Person turns his heart to God and begins to pray the sick one is healed.  ABU2873

Verily it was sent from the presence of him who was named by our glorious Lord as "The Friend" and made him special among His servants for His remembrance and praise and the manifestation of His Cause among His creatures.   BH01553

Let us pray to God that He will exhilarate our spirits so we may behold the descent of His bounties, illumine our eyes to witness His great guidance and attune our ears to enjoy the celestial melodies of the heavenly Word.  ABU1450

Send down upon me that which will keep me from all else but Thee and draw me nigh unto Thee at all times. Then send down upon me that which Thou hast ordained for me in the heaven of Thy bounty and the tablet of Thy decree.  BH06231

Praise be to God, the Pen of Response is in motion and each question hath been granted an explicit answer. Verily our Lord and your Lord, and our Beloved and your Beloved, is powerful over all things and worthy to respond.   BH01198

Verily Thy lovers thirst, O my Lord; lead them to the wellspring of bounty and grace. Verily, they hunger; send down unto them Thy heavenly table. Verily, they are naked; robe them in the garments of learning and knowledge.  AB00156

I have received thy letter and thanked God (Glorified is He!) for thy attractions to the Fragrances of God, thy enkindlement with the commemoration of God and the illumination of thy heart with the Light of the Love of God.  AB05939

Then write it in thy finest hand and send it to near and far places, then spread it before Our servant Ja'far that he may give glad tidings unto the people through the signs of his Lord and be of them that give glad tidings.  BH01726

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to assist all who are on earth to turn unto Him and to act according to that which He hath revealed in His Book. Verily, He is the All-Powerful, the Most Exalted, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH00345

O Lord! Expand the breasts of the sincere ones through witnessing the manifest light, heal the hearts of the unitarians with the cup of Thy grace overflowing with the living waters, open before their faces the gates of ease   AB02856

When two birds sing on the branches of a cedar with sweet melodies in remembrance of God those melodies will reach the highest summit from this nether region and it will exhilarate the denizens of the temples of the Kingdom.   AB07404

In certain nervous and spiritual diseases, prayer is most effective and bestows divine healing. In brief there are physical diseases and spiritual diseases. The former must be treated with medicine and the latter with prayer.  ABU1374

Sometimes if the nervous system is paralyzed through fear, a spiritual remedy is necessary. Madness, incurable otherwise, can be cured through prayer, but an abscess cannot be cured by prayer alone. Extreme cases need prayer.   ABU2530

Blessed is the pen that hath moved in My remembrance, and the face that hath turned toward My court, and the heart that hath turned to My horizon, and the ear that hath heard the Call when it was raised betwixt earth and heaven   BH04510

Though the worth and station of this bounty and gift is not known now, yet ere long its effects shall become manifest and its lights brilliant. Its candle shall shine forth and its fire shall blaze in the heart of the horizons.   AB06190

Now plant the tree of aspirations in those gardens, so that through the outpourings of the Concourse on High it may grow fresher and more verdant day by day and spread such fragrances as will perfume the nostrils of all regions.  AB02760

Pray thou with an attracted heart and supplicate with a spirit stirred by the glad tidings of God. Then the doors of the kingdom of mysteries shall be opened before thy face, and thou shalt comprehend the realities of all things  AB11280

This servant also conveyeth greetings, praise and salutations to each one, and beseecheth from God - exalted be His glory - whatsoever is the cause of glory, blessing and joy for all. Verily our Lord is the Hearer, the Answerer.   BH00276

You would become so elated and raise such a cry of "O glad tidings! O glad tidings!" that you would create a commotion in the Supreme Concourse, set the world ablaze with the fire of the love of God, and shine bright like a lamp.  AB02979

Prayer makes the heart mindful, it spiritualizes the soul, it causes the spirit to exult, it gladdens the breast, till Divine love appears and a man leans trustingly on the Lord and bows in lowliness at the Threshold of Grandeur.  ABU2925

"By the Day-Star of ancient mysteries! The sweet-scented fragrance of every breath breathed in the love of God is wafted in the court of the presence of the Lord of Revelation. The reward of no good deed is or ever will be lost."   BH04168

Cause me, O my God, to hear my verses recited by one with a beautiful voice, that my heart may be drawn to the most exalted and glorious horizon, and that my tears may flow down my cheeks before Thee, as a mercy from Thy presence.  BB00004

"I render Thee thanks, therefore, and extol Thee, in the name of all them that are dear to Thee, for that Thou hast caused them to be born again, by reason of the living waters which have flowed down out of the mouth of Thy will."   BH04231

Nothing shall profit you this day though ye should cling to all things between earth and heaven, or remember God throughout the duration of His kingdom. Thus hath the command been sent down from the presence of One mighty and wise.  BH02860

And thou, O servant, know that thy letter came before Us and God's gaze turned toward it out of love for thee, and He was ever watchful over thee. Blessed art thou for having opened the doors of thy heart in thy recognition of God   BH02428

My God, my God! Aid me to remember Thee and praise Thee and serve Thy Cause, that I may arise among Thy servants to exalt Thy Word and manifest Thy Cause until the standards of Thy oneness and the banners of Thy victory are raised   BH02056

We beseech God that thou wilt continue to consecrate thyself and thine entire being unto Him so that thou mayest become a cause of the unity of that scattered group and bring prosperity to those who have been stripped of their all.  AB01838

Despite this, we still pray and implore and beseech at the threshold of the One, that He may forgive sin and grant bounty, make ruined Iran prosperous again, bring order to conditions, and cause Iran's material and moral progress.   AB00947

"I implore Thee, by Thy Most Great Name, and Thy most ancient sovereignty, to look upon Thy loved ones whose hearts have been sorely shaken by reason of the troubles that have touched Him Who is the Manifestation of Thine own Self."  BH08255

Make the insignificant ant a Solomon of the glorious realm and make the poor atom a prince of the zenith of ether. Bestow upon the drop the bounty of the sea and grant the blade of grass the freshness and delicacy of the green tree.  AB07372

The divine friends must supplicate and implore night and day, and beg confirmation from the Kingdom of the Lord for this dust-heap, for without His favors we are nothing, nothing at all. Whatever happens is through His confirmation.  AB02765

Therefore prayers and supplications were offered at the threshold of the Revealer of mysteries, that through the assistance and favor of the Blessed Beauty, hopes may be fulfilled, hearts illumined, and souls perfumed with fragrance.  AB08981

Command the people to recite the first verse of the Book at all times, before all times and after all times: God is Most Glorious, God is Most Exalted, God is Most Great, God is Most Luminous, God is Most Great, God is Most Manifest.   BB00350

"'Oh.' they replied, 'Hast thou not the Most Great Name of God. With that name, thou hast healed the blind and the deaf and the mute and raised the dead. Why dost thou not read it over the dullard so that he may become intelligent?'"   ABU0291

This is a Book sent down in truth from this Most Great Prison unto him who hath believed in God, the Lord of the Mighty Throne, that it may draw him unto the station of certitude and strengthen him to serve the Cause in the days of God  BH04817

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued all things, and through which Thou hast called all unto the most exalted horizon, to aid me in Thy remembrance and praise, and in remaining steadfast in Thy love and affection.  BH08260

I will pray fervently and in the hours of dawn will, with utmost ardour and humility, implore tearfully to the Abha Kingdom, beseeching unbounded protection and help for all of you. Divine confirmation will undoubtedly be forthcoming.   AB04248

Strive ye, that perchance in these days ye may attain unto such heights, through the outpourings of the True Bestower, that neither the vicissitudes of time shall prevent its mention, nor shall change and extinction overtake its traces.  BH11387

O Lord, guard them and those who follow them among the latter ones through Thy guardianship, Thy power, Thy protection and Thy Will. Admit them, O Lord, into Thy fortress and strengthen them in every circumstance through Thy remembrance  BB00102

heal every sick and ailing one with the cup of the flowing spring, that breasts may be gladdened by the dawning of the verses of light, and eyes be consoled by discovering the lights of mysteries shining from the niche of manifestation   AB01823

Prayer: O Kind Lord! These friends are wandering in Thy lane and are enamored of Thy countenance and are turned toward Thy Kingdom. They are intoxicated with the wine of faith and hold the cup of longing in the assembly of the Covenant.  AB00772

No glory or loftiness can compare with this station wherein thy mention is heard and an answer of grace is bestowed. Where are they who gave up their lives yearning to hear the words "Listen, then behold," and ascended with this longing?  BH02916

I swear by the Greatest Name that remembrance of the friends brings comfort to the soul and joy to the conscience, and brings such spirit and fragrance that the heart comes into rapture and delight and the soul into longing and ecstasy.   AB02842

When travelling in America and Europe, on many occasion[s] I did not have the power of uttering one word but before entering the meeting I begged Baha'u'llah to reinforce me and then walked in and commenced to speak for one or two hours.  ABU2790

And He hath answered thee with words which, by God, travel and move more swiftly than lightning, and from their movement is generated a heat that outpaceth fire, that it may draw thee to the sanctuary of holiness and nearness and majesty   BH05993

Know thou that thy letter reached the presence in the days before this, and We heard that which thou didst call upon God, thy Lord, and We answered thee in that hour with that which none knoweth save thy Lord, the Protector of all worlds.  BH06783

What power and effect remain then for the darkness of sin, and what fear and peril for the sinners? Make this faithful and assured maidservant dear in Thy threshold, and guide this poor wanderer to the treasure of the wealth of Thy pardon.  AB02458

If thou performest with sincerity that which I have commanded thee, thou shalt surely find God, thy Lord, All-Forgiving and a Stronghold. Verily God hath erected, through His grace, a barrier between Satan and the one who reciteth His Book   BB00579

Through His remembrance are quickened the hearts of them that have known Him, and through it are severed from all that hath been created between the heavens and earth the souls of those whom the overpowering raptures of longing have seized.   BH07745

"My God, my God! Thy call hath drawn me near, and Thy nearness is my hope and desire, and Thy separation hath consumed me, and Thy remoteness hath destroyed me. I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy Kingdom and the signs of Thy Dominion..."  BH04773

The noble letter brought manifest joy to the grieving heart. Praise be unto Him for His successive bounties. At times through meeting and union, and at times through letter and message, He bestoweth that which nourisheth the spirit and soul.  BH02238

"The assembly that has been formed is assuredly under the glance of the divine mercy and encompassed by heavenly confirmations. O Lord! Aid these to diffuse the holy fragrances and sweet breaths in the East and West of Thy land and kingdom."  AB01877

I supplicate divine mercy from the Kingdom of the Merciful in behalf of thy brother. Likewise I ask confirmation in behalf of thy brother and his daughter, from the Lord of Hosts, that they become quickened, mindful, illumined and celestial.  AB00466

Praise be to God, this endless favors from the Kingdom of God arrive continuously, bringing glad tidings through the escort of grace, while the rays of the Sun of Truth shine forth and the breeze from the rose garden of grace bestows spirit.  AB09611

O Lord! I testify that Thou didst create ears to hearken unto Thy call in Thy Day, and eyes to behold the lights of the Dayspring of Thy Revelation and the Source of Thy signs and the Fountainhead of the manifestations of Thy power and favors.  BH02261

By the hand of power He lit a lamp, and the contrary winds which are the cause of its extinction, by His all-compelling will, served but to increase its radiance. A fire that the hand of power kindleth, the seas of the world cannot extinguish.  BH00509

As for what thou hast asked regarding the expansion of sustenance, recite for forty days, one thousand and one times each day: And whosoever feareth God, He will appoint for him a way out, and will provide for him from whence he expecteth not.  BB00026

We have indeed sent down unto thee aforetime clear verses, and now again have verses been sent down from the heaven of glorious and resplendent might, that thou mayest give thanks unto God, thy Lord, at all times and be steadfast in His Cause.   BH07294

Thy might beareth me witness! Every limb of my body crieth out to Thee and saith: "O Thou Who art the Well-Beloved of the worlds, and the Lord of all that are in heaven and on earth, and the one Desire of the hearts which are devoted to Thee!"   BH05402

It is evident that when a breath is released for the sake of God from the human world, it influences the pillars of existence, both seen and unseen, and creates a warmth in the world of hearts that the sea of contingent being cannot extinguish.  AB05828

Then write down for the Leaf whom Thou hast named Tuba in the Crimson Book that which will preserve her through Thy bounty and Thy hosts, and will guard her through Thy grace and loving-kindness, and through the hosts of the seen and the unseen.  BH07472

In truth, if at all times they hold fast to unity and harmony, assuredly the light of concord will illumine the horizons and the flame of unity will ignite the hearts. Praise be to God, the river of mercy flows from the right hand of the Throne.  BH00090

Abdul-Baha, every night in the darkest hours, with tearful eyes beseeches divine aid and grace. Surely this heat and flame will influence the hearts of the friends and they will arise with the utmost strength and power to serve the Cause of God   AB00979

any deed performed by any soul for the triumph of God's Cause, even if it be but a sigh breathed forth for the love of God, shall endure forever and its effects shall be manifested in all the divine worlds through wondrous and sublime appearances  BH02107

Hold fast unto what We have counseled thee, then abandon whatsoever diverteth thee from God, and say: "I have turned my face unto Thee, O Lord of Lords, and have sought the Ka'bah of existence through Thy blessed, hallowed, mighty and wise Name."   BH05037

Blessed art thou, O thou who gazest upon what has been sent down to thee in this Tablet, by which spirits take flight. Preserve it, then recite it. By My life! It is a gate to thy Lord's mercy. Blessed is he who recites it at eventide and at dawn   BH02116

Today all - that is, the community of the All-Merciful - must implore with utmost humility and supplication the Self-Sufficient Lord for the victory of His manifest Faith, and beseech the All-Powerful One to extinguish the fire of the polytheists.  BH00944

In the earthly world this is one example and sign of the influence and penetration of the divine word in the worlds of intellects and souls and the purification of hearts and thoughts, the like of which cannot be seen in any assembly or gathering   ABU1601

Do Thou ordain for him through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which shall draw him nigh unto the Most Sublime Summit. Thou, verily, art the Educator of the world and the Lord of the nations, and Thou, verily, art the Potent, the All-Subduing, the Almighty.  BH10506

Say: Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the billowing oceans of Thy utterance, and by the signs of Thy grandeur, and by the manifestations of Thy might...that Thou aid me to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee, and to serve Thy Cause.  BH04963

I beseech Thee by the lights that shine forth from the dayspring of Thy mercy and the stars in the heaven of Thy grace, to aid Thy servants to rend asunder that which hath prevented them from turning towards Thee and from attaining unto Thy presence.   BH03296

This servant beseeches and implores from God, exalted be His glory, that which will cause the exaltation of His Cause and the elevation of the station of His loved ones. Ye are remembered in all conditions and have attained the grace of His utterance.  BH01148

O God! I fervently implore Thee, and invoke Thy exalted threshold to quicken their hearts through breezes wafting from the garden of Thy loving-kindness and gladden their breasts with the overflowing fountain of Thy favors in the forests of Thy mercy.   AB04238

O Lord! Strengthen them with powerful forces, aid them with the hosts of the Supreme Concourse, remove their difficulties, make their hardships easy, and let them drink from the cup of knowledge, brimming with the wine of certitude among the companions  AB03849

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Mystery enshrouded in mystery, and by the lights of Thy most great Throne, and the mysteries of Thy manifest Book, to make me a banner of Thy Name amidst Thy creation and one who standeth in service to Thee in Thy days.   BH02143

At every moment I commune in prayer and supplication at the Threshold of the Ancient Beauty, so that moment by moment from the cloud of providence dewdrops may fall upon the gardens of hearts, making them verdant and adorned with flowers and sweet herbs.  AB03716

Glory be unto Thee, O God! Thou beholdest those who have believed in God and His signs, and verily Thou art the Protector of the God-fearing. Therefore, O God, send down from Thy presence such victory as shall rejoice the hearts of Thy believing servants.  BB00004

Your sweet letter made my heart and soul sugary sweet. Your endearing face is always in my thoughts. I too am longing to see you. Maintain the practice of the Greatest Name and read your lessons at the beginning. Divine assistance and grace encompass you.  AB09282

My God, my God! Ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for the countenances of Thy most exalted Paradise and the supreme Heaven. Verily Thou art the All-Powerful, the All-Merciful, the Most Generous. There is no God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH10155

"Blessed be thy tongue for having attained to the remembrance of God...and blessed be thine ear for having hearkened unto His call when it was raised from the realm of might, and happy be thy heart for having turned and thy face for having been directed."   BH03757

Therefore hearken unto what is revealed unto thee from what hath been inscribed of the divine decrees upon tablets of ruby by the Most Sweet Fingers, that it may deliver thee from the ornaments of the kingdom and attract thee to the stations of the Spirit   BH02233

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee, detached from all else but Thee. I beseech Thee by the Word through which Thou didst manifest from nothingness the Sign of eternity, to ordain for me that which will benefit me in every world of Thy worlds.  BH09120

When thou findest the fragrance of the All-Merciful's utterance and art attracted by the breezes of revelation, say: My God, my God! Thou seest me advancing toward Thee, standing before the door of Thy grandeur, and gazing toward the horizon of Thy grace...   BH02325

Thou seest me turning toward the lights of Thy countenance and awaiting the wonders of Thy grace... neither swords could deter from clinging to equity in Thy Cause, nor could the hosts of the wicked frighten from turning toward the sanctuary of Thy nearness.   BH05469

This call quickens the body and brings the soul to its Beloved. O Husayn! Listen with thy heart's ear, that thou mayest attain, through the sweetness of the divine Word, to such a station that thou wilt find thyself, at all times, in a state of joy and delight.  BH01836

Thou seest and knowest that I have arisen among Thy servants to serve Thy Cause and to unite the hearts of Thy creation. Assist me, O my God, and enable me, O my Best-Beloved, to mention Thee and praise Thee and to do that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.  BH07656

I implore Thee by the mysteries of Thy Book and the sweetness of Thy utterance to ordain for me the reward of those who were steadfast in Thy Cause and who spoke Thy praise in such wise that the hosts of those who denied Thee and Thy signs could not hinder them.   BH08956

Say: O people! Answer your Lord, the All-Merciful, in these days wherein the Call hath been raised from all things, and the Spirit of Holiness proclaimeth between earth and heaven: "The sovereignty belongeth unto God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Choosing!"   BH03812

Glory be unto Thee, O God! Protect us from before us and behind us, from our right and our left, from above our heads and beneath our feet, and from every direction that reacheth unto us, by the angels of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them.  BB00004

"O my Lord! I am he who has sought Thy nearness and Thy presence, to stand before Thy throne and at the door of Thy grandeur. Wouldst Thou turn away from Thy door him who hopes in Thee, or disappoint him in what he seeks from the wonders of Thy grace and favors?"   BH06287

O my Lord! Thou seest the needy one hath made for the ocean of Thy generosity and the poor one for the sun of Thy grace. Ordain for him what beseemeth the heaven of Thy bounty and the sea of Thy munificence. Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the Bestower.   BH02851

Ever has the Pen of the Ancient King been engaged and astir in remembrance of His friends. At times the Euphrates of mercy hath flowed from it, and at others the perspicuous Book hath been revealed therefrom. He is the Unique One and the First Speaker of the world.  BH00674

O Muhammad! I swear by the Most Great Name that such power hath been manifested that were the hands of supplication of all created things to be raised toward the right hand of His bounty, all would return with radiant palms from the Sinai of divine grace and favor.   BH01185

Through God's might and power, ye must heal the inner ailments of the nations and the diseased eyes of the peoples of the world with the healing remedy of the Most Great Name, that all may turn to the shore of the Most Great Ocean in the days of the Lord of Eternity.   BH00501

Say to whoever desires remembrance: Read at the meridian line the word of sanctification one hundred and ten times, and teach him if you wish from whatever prayers you desire, for through them hearts are made firm, and verily God aids with His victory whom He pleases.   BB00313

Today all must strive with utmost endeavor to promote the Cause of God and arise with complete dedication to serve His Cause. Assuredly, the words of the sincere ones and those near to God will have their effect and their traces will become manifest throughout the earth.  BH04615

Thou protect the bearer of this blessed leaf, then him who readeth it, then him who hearkeneth unto it, then him who passeth by the house wherein it resideth; and heal through it every sick and ailing one and every poor one from all tribulation, malady, hardship and grief  BH00870

Say: Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the heaven of knowledge was raised up and adorned with the suns of utterance, to make me detached from all else but Thee, holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty and clinging to the hem of Thy mercy...  BH02036

As for what you desired of your Lord's grace in forgiving you and purifying your soul, He has answered what you mentioned. We beseech God to forgive you and ordain for you what He has ordained for His handmaidens who have attained His presence and circumambulated His throne.  BH03663

O Lord! I am one crying for help - You have helped me; and a stranger - You have sheltered me; and a sinner - You have pardoned me; and abased - You have honored me; and poor - You have enriched me; and seeking protection - You have honored me; and captive - You have freed me  AB12150

O thou real beloved! The letter which thou hast written in regard to the happiness and joy, beatitude and rejoicing of the American believers concerning the trip of Abdul-Baha to the country of Joseph of Canaan, and likewise their expectation of my going to America was perused.  AB06545

Praise be unto You, O Quickener of moldering bones, Educator of nations, and the One Who has dawned upon the horizons of the world through the Greatest Name, for having guided me to the bright pathway and the easy, exemplary road wherein there is neither crookedness nor decline  AB06460

My God, my God! I call upon Thee and implore Thee, prostrating my face in the dust of Thy holy threshold, beseeching Thee to make them signs of Thy mercy, banners of Thy oneness, dawning-places of the light of Thy gift, recipients of Thy inspiration, and emblems of Thy religion  AB00848

We beseech God to draw thee nigh unto Him, to grant thee the good of this world and the next, and to make thee a helper to His weak servants and one who is confirmed in that which He loveth and is pleased with. Verily, He is powerful over all things and worthy to answer prayer.   BH02808

I beseech Thee by the penetrating power of Thy Most Exalted Word and the might of Thy Most High Pen to assist Thy servants to turn to Thee and gaze toward Thy horizon. O my Lord! Deprive them not of the outpourings of the heaven of Thy Will and the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty.  BH01598

When thou hast quaffed the choice wine of My utterance and attained unto hearkening to My call, say: My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy Most Great Announcement and for having given me to drink of the Kawthar of knowledge before the faces of the peoples.   BH07235

"When thou findest the fragrance of utterance, say: I beseech Thee, O my Lord, the All-Merciful, by the lights of Thy countenance and by the wings that soar in the atmosphere of Thy love, to ordain for me from the Pen of Thy Command that which will strengthen me in all conditions."   BH03033

I render thanks unto God for He hath safeguarded and preserved you in the sanctuary of His protection during this grievous turmoil and this all-pervasive storm, and I praise Him for He hath shielded you in His impregnable stronghold from the darts of the rebellious and the evil ones   AB03032

If a soul from the beginning that has no beginning to the end that has no end were to remember and worship the Self-Sufficient, Exalted Lord in wilderness, plains, mountains and hills, yet the fragrance of His good-pleasure does not emanate therefrom, it was not and is not acceptable.  BH01954

Thus have We imparted unto thee and informed thee and expounded for thee some of what hath befallen Us, as a mercy from Our presence upon thee, that thou mayest be gladdened within thyself by the sweet-scented breezes of holiness wafted upon thee from this luminous and radiant Scene.   BH01237

After reading and reviewing the eminent letter, I proceeded to His presence and submitted all. He said: "God willing, may they be blessed at all times with the favors of the Desired One, and be mentioned by His Name, illumined by His light, turned to His face, arise in His service..."   BH02145

Every longing one whose eyes had turned white from grief of separation regained sight through the fragrance of Thy garment, and every ailing seeker became whole and well, and every deaf seeker became hearing, and every thirsty one became quenched, and every hungry one became satisfied.  AB05992

O Lord! Make these weak ones powerful and make these feeble ants the hosts of the Solomon of the age. Grant them wings and feathers and bestow on them the power of the angels of the highest realm, that they may soar in the heights of heaven and with wings spread traverse east and west.  AB01043

That you expressed insufficiency is evidence of your increased seeking from the treasury of grace. Yea, those who seek the Ka'bah of the All-Merciful and circle round the sanctuary of the All-Glorious are like fish in the ocean--the more they drink, the more they cry out "Is there more?"   BH00737

God willing, may they ever drink from the Kawthar of love of the Immortal Beloved and be occupied with His remembrance, praise, and service to His Cause. Praise be to God, they are confirmed in service, and the reward of the doers in the Perspicuous Book hath been and shall ever be great.  BH00896

"Verily, the Wronged One implores God, the Lord of the Throne and earth, the Master of the hereafter and this world, to assist you with the hosts of wisdom and utterance, to confirm you in that which will exalt the station of man, and to aid you in that which He loves and is pleased with."  BH01385

Through the influence of this chalice, do Thou revive O Lord, all the dwellers of the earth and ordain for the people of Baha -- they that yearn to behold Thy face but have been turned away by reason of what the hands of Thine enemies have wrought -- ordain for them that which will profit them  BH04229

My God, my God, my Lord, my Support, my Goal, my Object of worship, and the Ultimate End of my desire! By Thy might and majesty, Thy greatness and power, I long to lay my face upon every spot of Thy earth that perchance it may be honored by having been touched by the feet of Thy loved ones.   BH00422

whatever flowed from the Pen of the Covenant during the years of ferment and the height of influence and power of the parliamentarians in the veins, nerves and arteries of the Iranians has in these days become manifest and apparent, so that all may be assured that this pen is divinely inspired   AB02789

We were seated upon Our seat when the servant who was present entered with thy letter and read it before the Wronged One. We heard it and have answered thee with verses before which all other verses have bowed down, and with an utterance around which every new and wondrous utterance doth circle.  BH08144

And then, your letter reached Me, and when I had read and learned of its contents, I repaired to the station and laid it before the face of our Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing. Thereupon the Tongue of Grandeur spoke that which diffused the fragrance of the All-Merciful throughout all creation.   BH00979

This tribulation hath brought thee to supplication and caused thee to fall into humble entreaty, such that night and day thou callest out to the Most Great Name, saying O Beauty of God, I sacrifice my all for Thee. Herein lieth the power of God, that a single drop endureth an ocean of tribulation.  AB02964

Grant them sustenance from the heavenly table, and through them exalt Thy Word throughout the earth. Through them unfurl the banners of signs in all directions and cause them to speak forth compelling proofs and clear evidences in establishing Thy Cause, before which the firm mountains were shaken.  AB01370

It beseemeth us, therefore, to embrace each other even as angels and circle round the Throne of God and spend the hours in celebration of His praise and glory. By spiritual circumambulation is meant mutual attachment, inner attraction, comfort to the hearts and the consuming fire of the love of God.  AB08402

Pray then the Lord that his servitude may become even as a crown resplendent upon his head, and a necklace brightly jewelled around his neck. Wert thou to know to what bounty he hath attained, and what great blessing he hath received, thou wouldst assuredly spread thy wings and soar in the heavens.   AB04646

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy power which hath encompassed all things, and by Thy bounty through which existence hath appeared from the unseen and the seen, to assist whosoever hath turned toward Thee to be steadfast in Thy Cause. Verily Thou art the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth.   BH05269

I implore the Self-Sufficient Lord that those saplings by the stream of God's love may be refreshed by the rain clouds of grace, grow through the heat of the Sun of Truth, be stirred by the life-giving breeze from the paradise of oneness, and become an adornment and beauty in the garden of creation.   AB04477

I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause and the fire of Thy love, and by the Name through which Thou didst shine forth upon the world, and by Thy power which hath encompassed the nations, to make me speak forth Thy praise and mention, to arise to serve Thy Cause, and to remain steadfast in Thy love.   BH05353

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name which Thou hast made the Crown of all names, and through which earth and heaven were illumined, to cause me to be numbered with them who have quaffed the wine of Thy Revelation from the hands of Thy bounty, and who have stood firm in Thy Cause...  BH00791

Nevertheless, night and day supplications and entreaties are raised to the threshold of Oneness that each of the loved ones may become like a brilliant lamp, a radiant star, a shining orb, and a clear sign, and that the outpourings of the Most Glorious Kingdom may arrive successively one after another.  AB01869

In any case, last year it was written to 'Ishqabad and Khurasan that it was the end of the year of hardship and the beginning of the year of victories. The Blessed Beauty desired to prove and establish to all that this Pen is ever accompanied by divine confirmations. Therefore He fulfilled Our promise.  AB03399

O my God! They have bowed down to the Word of Thy transcendent Unity and prostrated themselves on the ground in exaltation before the majesty of Thy Oneness, and fell on dust in submission and humility to Thy Divine Threshold. O God! Accept from them every good deed in Thy path, Thou art the Benevolent.  AB05488

O Lord! These are servants who have turned to Thy merciful countenance, clung to the hem of Thy oneness, and held fast to the firm handle that cannot be broken. They commune with Thee in the depths of their hearts and the secrets of their souls, beseeching Thee to aid them in Thy remembrance and praise   AB01940

Thou openest the doors of victory before the faces of the chosen ones. Thou leadest the friends to the spring of Tasnim in the luminous garden. Thou passeth round the cup of favors with the wine of Thy mercy in the gatherings of the pious, intoxicating them with a holy rapture that stirs hearts and souls.   AB02084

I raise my suppliant hands in prayer to the Kingdom of Glory, beseeching by day and by night that heavenly blessings may descend upon you and that your Lord may assist you through the hosts of the Supreme Concourse, until ye become signs of guidance and lamps of righteousness, kindled and shining upon all.  AB09312

If thou desirest to make mention of God, the Lord of the Throne and of earth, arise, then raise up the hands of thy inner and outer being with such steadfastness that the hands of all contingent things will be lifted thereby toward the heaven of the grace of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate.  BH04504

O Lord! Thou seest those near to Thee turning toward the horizon of Thy manifestation, and the sincere ones hastening to the shore of the ocean of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by the sun of Thy loving-kindness and the heaven of Thy bounty to ordain for Thy loved ones that which befitteth Thy greatness and power.  BH00600

Now this servant at the threshold of Baha, alone in a spot on the slopes of Mount Carmel, pen in hand, engrossed in thoughts of thy face and character, is occupied with writing. If thou knew in what state I have engaged in writing, surely such longing and attraction, such enthusiasm and burning would take hold  AB12129

Therefore I beseech Thee, O my most glorious God, by Thy Self which Thou hast cast into the Most Great Prison for the liberation of mankind, that Thou assist Thy loved ones at all times through Thy wondrous confirmations and mighty inspirations, that they may all arise to aid Thy Cause and spread Thy remembrance  BH02112

O my God, my God! Withhold not Thy servants from turning to the Most Great Ocean, nor deprive them of the effulgent rays of Thy luminous horizon. Through Thy bounty and generosity, ordain for them that which will draw them nigh unto Thee. Verily, Thou art He in Whose grasp are the reins of grace and munificence.  BH01445

We visit the Holy Shrine at all times on your behalf and implore the outpourings of the Abha Kingdom that, God willing, you may be so successful in serving God's Cause and unifying the Word that the voice of praise from the invisible Realm and the Concourse on High may reach the ears of all these yearning souls.  AB00148

Today in the world of existence no love and kindness can be conceived of greater than this: that a soul should, in the Blessed Garden, engage in the mention and remembrance of a friend and offer prayers for good. This is His most great favor, His greatest gift, His most perfect bestowal and His most exalted bounty.  AB08250

O my God, my God! I testify that by Thy Name the hearts of the Supreme Paradise were entranced, and by Thy most sweet call all created things were overturned, and by the light of Thy utterance the earth and heaven were illumined, and by Thy being seated upon the throne the call was raised from the direction of Sinai.  BH00143

Say: My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the tears of Thy sincere servants and the sighs of Thy near ones, and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the movement of Thy Most Exalted Pen and the rustling of the Lote Tree of the furthermost boundary, to aid me to serve Thy Cause and to be steadfast in Thy love.   BH02791

I beseech Thee by the Word through which the earth yielded up its treasures, the horizons their lights, the seas their pearls, and the Divine Lote-Tree that which lay hidden within it, to assist Thy loved ones to celebrate Thy praise and glory and to promote Thy Cause through the wisdom Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.  BH07039

O my Lord! I am he who hath turned toward the ocean of Thy grace and acknowledged Thy sovereignty and power. I beseech Thee to aid me in all conditions to serve Thee and remember Thee and praise Thee. Verily Thou art the Protector of those in earth and heaven. Thou doest what Thou willest and ordainest what Thou pleasest.   BH02609

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Baha at its most splendid and all Thy Baha is splendid, to assist me and Thy loved ones to draw nigh unto Thee, to turn towards the horizon of Thy Manifestation, to hold fast to Thy firm cord, and to cling to the hem of Thy luminous mercy. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.   BH10970

Glory be to Thee, O God of Paradise and the Garden, and Educator of all possibility! I beseech Thee by the manifestations of Thy sovereignty and the modes of Thy Self-Subsistence to preserve those who have turned to Thee from the evil of self and passion, and aid them in that which diffuseth the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure.  BH02075

God willing, drink at all times from the pure water of the Kawthar of the utterance of the Beloved of all possibility. Its intoxication is the cause of awareness and its taste is the taste of everlasting life. The Most Exalted Cup is before the faces of the people of creation. Blessed is he who drinks, and woe to the heedless!   BH01627

O my Lord! Thou Who art ever-forgiving! Verily, this assembly hath turned its face toward Thy Kingdom. Verily, they are all of Thy flock, and Thou art the one Shepherd of all. O Thou real Shepherd! Educate and train Thy sheep in Thy green and verdant pastures. Suffer these birds of Thine to build their nests in Thy rose garden.  ABU0012

Hold fast unto the cord of thy Lord's loving-kindness and say: O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name and Thy dominion that overshadoweth the world, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy love and to number me with those who have attained unto Thy good-pleasure. Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest.  BH00536

Throughout your lives ye toil to possess a small thing, yet on the Day of Resurrection ye believe not in Him Whom God shall make manifest, that He might establish the Cause over all the earth through your faith, nor doth it weigh heavily upon them or upon you in your veiling, and ye imagine that ye are possessed of understanding.  BB00003

My God, my God! Illumine my heart, inspire my conscience, expand my breast, and cause me to speak in praise of Thy Most Glorious Beauty among all people, until my tongue becomes eloquent with proof and argument among the followers of religions, and I may guide all to the straight path and give all to drink from this pure spring.   AB00904

When divine aid and grace become constant companions and God's protection and shelter are ever-present supporters, the weak human becomes mighty in strength, the feeble ant becomes a warrior of the Supreme Concourse, the powerless hoopoe becomes Solomon's messenger, and the lifeless gnat becomes the greatest host of the Merciful.  AB11637

O Lord! Thou seest him standing in service to Thee, gazing toward Thy horizon, hoping for that which lieth with Thee. I beseech Thee by the pavilion of Thy glory and the tabernacles of Thy grandeur and that which hath flowed from the Pen of Thy Command, to ordain for him that which shall profit him in all the worlds of Thy worlds.  BH01267

We desire to bestow Our favor once again upon 'Ali-Qabl-i-Akbar, upon him be My glory. Send the verses that were revealed in previous years specifically concerning prayer, and write that by the life of God, its fragrances will attract the lovers, move those who are still, awaken the heedless, and bestow life upon the fair-minded.   BH00401

This servant supposed that in the realm of education souls would be found who would somewhat comprehend what is intended in this Most Great Manifestation. Now it has become evident that even if a hundred thousand worlds should reach their end, the people still remain at the beginning, as if they had seen nothing and heard nothing.  BH00189

Therefore pray that God may confirm and grant a glance of favor - the God who can make black earth a place of heart's delight, who can make desolate land into a rose garden, who with a single attention can transform Iran and give order to scattered souls, make the ruined prosperous, and make sorrowful hearts joyful and delighted.   ABU0912

Say: Glorified art Thou, O my God! Unto Thee be praise for having guided me, taught me, caused me to know Thee, and fed me from the table of recognition, and given me to drink from the Kawthar of utterance. My Lord! I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy most great signs to assist me in that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.   BH05861

"I swear by the Sun of Truth that the sighs of the oppressed are more potent in their effect than cannons and sharper than swords! Though consummate wisdom may require that some fruits of deeds be delayed for a limited time, such delay will not prevent the inevitable decree. Assuredly the oppressors have been and will be requited."  BH00221

Therefore one must take refuge in the glass of supplication and lamentation, so that before the oil is depleted, it is not extinguished by the blowing of the strong winds of destiny. Talismans, prayers and seeking healing are for protection from the winds of suspended destiny, but the inevitable destiny cannot be changed or altered.   AB01385

How blessed are those souls who plant for God's sake and leave it for God's creatures. The springtime consumption and sustenance of a single being lasts but a day or two. We beseech God with utmost humility and supplication to grant us the strength to plant trees whose fruits will forever benefit and nourish the inhabitants of earth.   BH01096

O my God, my God! Thou seest me ablaze with the fire of Thy love and thankful for the manifestations of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by the mysteries treasured within the repository of Thy knowledge and the pearls concealed within the shells of the ocean of Thy bounty to aid me and Thy servants to diffuse Thy verses among Thy creatures.  BH06516

O esteemed one! I beseech Divine Glory to prepare for you a right course in your affairs, to ordain for you that which is best for you in this world and the next, and to make you a sign of His bounty among all peoples. Verily my Lord aids whomsoever He willeth in whatsoever He willeth. Verily my Lord is gracious to His sincere servants.  AB10691

Through these sensations, moreover, thy receptive capacity is increased: and the more capacious the container, the more copious its contents; the more vehement one's thirst, the sweeter in one's palate the outpouring bounty of the cloud. This is the mystery of supplication; this is the wisdom of praying for the fulfilment of one's needs.  AB01990

When the Call attracteth thee from the Most Exalted Horizon, say: "O Lord of the Kingdom of Names and Creator of Heaven! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses, and the pearls hidden in the shells of Thy knowledge, and the mysteries deposited in Thy Book, to make me steadfast in Thy love, firm in Thy Cause, and standing in Thy service."   BH03869

When I read and understood it, I approached the Praiseworthy Station and the Frequented Temple, the Station wherein naught is seen save God alone. When I presented myself, I laid before the Throne what was contained therein, and after this was completed, the Tongue of the All-Merciful spoke that which caused the Kingdom of utterance to quake  BH11311

I swear by the Sun of Utterance, there hath been ordained for thee that which the bird of imagination is powerless and incapable of attaining. Thou hast attained unto the blessing of recognition and received thy portion from the table of utterance, and thou hast been assisted to turn towards and act in the path of God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH00022

O my God and my Lord! Withhold not Thy servants from entering the crimson Ark of rubies which Thou hast ordained specifically for the people of Baha. O Lord! Thou seest Thy servant turning toward the horizon of Thy prison. I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause, whereby Thy earth and heaven were illumined, to aid me to serve Thy loved ones.  BH04698

When thou art in remembrance, be silent that thou mayest hear what the Spirit reciteth in this Paradise, which appeareth in the form of a visible Tablet. When thou hast heard and recognized what is treasured in thy Lord's melodies of self-knowledge, then aid Him with thyself and with thy tongue, and tarry not even for the twinkling of an eye.   BH01392

When thou drinkest the choice wine of revelation from the cup of My utterance and findest the fragrance of the All-Merciful from My words, say: My God, my God! Separation from Thee hath destroyed me, remoteness from Thee hath consumed me, Thy Manifestation hath bewildered me, Thy verses have enkindled me, and Thy clear signs have attracted me.  BH00009

The realities of things, the essences of contingent beings, and the conditions and circumstances of all exist under the shadow of the Word of God. That is what prevails, for it is like the sun - the heat and light of the sun penetrate all things. Therefore, whatsoever hath proceeded from the Supreme Pen hath come to pass and shall come to pass.  AB10684

The chanting of verses, whether individually or collectively, is the cause of the penetration of the Word of God in hearts and the reason for the flame of the fire of the love of God in breasts. But it is as you had written - on condition that hearts be like pure and delicate mirrors and spirits be raised in utmost joy and delight through divine glad-tidings.   AB03329

Then we come to the spiritual medicine. We find that it often happens that a man gets sick, and we pray, and he gets well. It often happens. That happens in numerous cases. A man has become insane, and we pray, and he gets well. It often has happened. A man has, day by day, become emaciated, and we pray, and he gets well, gets strength. And so on in many cases.   ABU0060

One of these deeds is prayer, which hath been designated by the Bearer of divine mysteries as the ascension. Prayer is the ascension of the believer, He hath said. A hundred thousand effects and benefits lie hidden and concealed within it - nay, they are beyond counting. How great the indolence and injustice for man to forsake this ascension and attach himself to Qarun!  BH10820

He answers the prayer of this plant. The plant prays potentially, "O God! Send me rain!" God answers the prayer, and the plant grows. God will answer anyone. He answers prayers potentially. Before we were born into this world did we not pray, "O God! Give me a mother; give me two fountains of bright milk; purify the air for my breathing; grant me rest and comfort; prepare food for my sustenance and living"?  ABU0316

When one supplicates to his Lord, turns unto Him and seeks Bounty from His Ocean, this supplication is by itself a light to his heart, an illumination to his sight, a life to his soul and an exaltation for his being...By these attractions, one's ability and capacity increase. When the vessel is widened the water increaseth, and when the thirst grows the bounty of the cloud becomes agreeable to the taste of man.  AB01990

The greatest means for its realisations consists in the entreaty and the supplication of the friends to the kingdom of God. Ye should all implore and solicit, pray, supplicate and beseech from the mercies of God that this world-consuming war may be substituted for a world-illuminating peace. It is sure and certain that the entreaty and the supplication of these servants will be acceptable at the Divine Threshold.   AB01375

Wherever we went, just before beginning to speak, I saw the doors opening and the lights of the sun of Reality confirming, beyond the power of description. Everywhere we went, in churches, synagogues and meetings, I turned first to the Kingdom of Abha, seeking, for a few minutes, the confirmations. Then, knowing that the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty were hovering over that assembly, I would begin to speak.   ABU1177

God Himself beareth witness that were all who dwell on earth to discover the fragrance of but one word of the Divine utterances, all would become intoxicated and turn their faces toward the light of His countenance. Praise be to God that they have been set ablaze by the attraction of the Divine utterance. Nothing that is witnessed or beheld can compare with the heat of the love of God - to this beareth witness the Lord of all beings and the Sovereign of earth and heaven.  BH00153

Rather these are breezes that shall never be cut off from pure and holy hearts, for they waft from the direction of the garment of the Beloved and pass from the Most Great Prison which is the seat of the throne of the All-Merciful. Blessed is he who hath found and known! Blessed is he who hath inhaled and breathed in! Blessed is he who hath turned toward Him with his breast stripped bare of coverings! And blessed is he who hath turned wholly unto Him, sanctified from all directions!   BH00969

By the Day-Star of the heaven of inner meanings! If the friends were to act, or had acted, according to that which was revealed, the whole world would guard them as the pupils of their eyes, and the hosts of the unseen would protect them from behind. All things have been and are among the hosts of God. The winds are reckoned among His troops, the mountains among His armies. Moses with but a staff threw the world into turmoil, for it appeared through God's command and arose to serve Him.  BH01089

whenever at midnight, I am awakened I repeat the formula "Verily God is the Deliverer" many, many times; as many times as I feel the need of it; then right next day a great confirmation is seen and experienced...That night I prayed all night and repeated the formula of "Verily God is the Deliverer"...Toward the twilight I slept. Suddenly I was awakened out of my sleep by the loud knocking at the door...The servant of the Consul said that, my master has arranged all the papers in regard to the land and wants to affix his signature before yourself.  ABU0271
 
