

He can never find peace but through effort and resignation, so that, notwithstanding all efforts in worldly affairs, the human heart remains free and happy. He neither becomes proud on attaining wealth and position nor becomes dejected on losing them. This station can be attained only through the power of faith.  ABU2560

Therefore it is impossible for the people of the world to be convinced except through the power of faith, for faith is the solver of every difficulty. Thus we must strive for the religion of God to gain influence. Through the power of the religion of God every difficult matter becomes easy. The power of religion makes kings submissive and overcomes those with influence.  AB02380

Believing that God is present in nature has never been enough. This belief has never founded, and could never found, a civilization. But belief in God's Chosen Ones, His Prophets, through Whom come the living waters of His revelation, has created structures in the life of man that the revolution of many ages and cycles could not destroy, and brought him holy light that time could never dim. ABU1594

The greatest power in this world for unity and for the federation of man is religious power. Political powers or the powers of diplomatists are unable to bring about this ideal condition. They cannot cause the hearts of men to love each other. The influence of science and arts is impotent to bring about this union in character which is beautiful and sublime. It is impossible, except by the power of Religion.  ABU0081

For the order and arrangement of the world and the comfort and tranquility of nations, the conduct and behavior of a religious common person is more beneficial than the actions of an irreligious scholar, especially in situations where political laws and power are not effective and restraining, and thoughts of glory, fear and fame do not intervene. At such times the value of divine education and the influence and results of spiritual teachings become evident.  ABU1208

Religious belief is one of the mightiest means for the development of civilization and of human character. Even at present we can observe that the uneducated among the followers of Christian denominations are true philosophers because of firmness in their religious beliefs. For they are adorned with such character and conduct that it would take our great philosophers many years of hardship, training and self-denial to achieve, whereas the common people of this sect are highly endowed with noble virtues and perfections.  AB00287


Thou hast found eternal life thyself and hast quickened and revived others.  AB11192

Consider what miracle the power of certitude and the might of faith reveals!   AB03915

If thou seekest an enduring sovereignty, seek Alexandrian might in the divine realm  AB04472

Every deed that is done for God possesses manifestations, expressions, signs and fruits  BH02987

the advance step now is to learn the expansion of the inflexible law of matter into the subtler kingdom of spirit, which contains a finer gravitation which holds the balance of power from age to age unbroken. Blessed is that soul who knows that against all appearances, the nature of things works for truth and right forever… The emancipated soul sees with the eyes of perfect faith because it knows what vast provisions are made to enable it to gain the victory over every difficulty and trial. ABU2410

This power is a celestial power, not earthly; and this sovereignty is of the Kingdom, not of fear.  AB07451

Whosoever ariseth to aid our Cause God will render him victorious over ten times ten thousand souls  BH11360

Sanctified and holy is the Lord who has made the poor so noble and the weak so mighty and powerful.   AB05102

It is with the power of faith that we ascend to the highest apex and attain honor in the all-glorious Kingdom.   ABU2169

This Army of God knows no defeat, and those who are enlisted in it will be reinforced by the invincible powers.  AB10302

Whoever remains under the shadow of blessed teachings and adheres to the sacred principles, he will be confirmed.  ABU3656

The sovereignty of Christ is a spiritual sovereignty, penetrating hearts and spirits, not bodies and stones and dust.  AB08995

Otherwise all powers, limbs and pillars would be useless and neglected, and their deeds would be like a desert mirage.   AB06925

Can the power of creation prevent Us? Nay, by My true Self, even should every possessor of might and dominion rise against Us.  BH01343

Although thou art old in age, yet thou art young in spirit and have freshness and vivacity, vigor and strength, beauty and sweetness.   AB06333

Every object in this world has the power of combustion. The objects by themselves and in themselves will not be ignited. A flame is necessary.  ABU3415

if one has one grain of faith in his heart, if they oblige him with the point of bayonet to act unjustly toward another he will not do it.   ABU3374

Each one of you, in the scroll of the glorious, is first in the book of guidance, and chief amongst the god-fearing in the most exalted Paradise.  AB06326

the new teachings give strength to the body and are the cause of the progress of declining nations and the reason for the life of every dead people.  AB10664

When the spirit is confirmed and assisted by the confirmation of the Holy Spirit then it will show its effect in every condition of the world of existence.  AB11558

"for the creatures are all blind save the soul who becomes perceiving through the light of Faith. All are deaf save the one who hears the Call of the Kingdom."  AB06849

Among them, it is applied to men who are like lightning in the days of God, such that they pass by all who are in the heavens and the earth in less than a moment   BH03724

all the peoples of the world - the deniers and the idolaters - will be powerless to prevent thee and will not hold thee back from the mention of the Peerless Friend  BH09744

the effulgences of the bounties of the Abha Beauty have encompassed the kingdom of existence, and the call of the Herald of favors is raised from the Supreme Horizon  AB09537

"But that which is lasting and enduring, with consequences following one upon another through the passage of centuries and ages, is, praise be to God, already achieved."  AB07592

No temptation and allurement whatsoever must ever extinguish the Fire of Faith in the heart of a Baha'i; because it is a fire ignited by the Hand of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU1705

even if they are a weak ant they can put a mighty elephant to flight from the field, and if they are a frail mosquito they can break the wings and feathers of a fierce eagle   AB03780

The spirit of the love of God is an overwhelming power and a brilliant force. Now if you too desire an overwhelming power, like Tahirih become an unsheathed sword and a soaring eagle.   AB03725

Consequently it is impossible that 'economic contentment' be realized by the people of the world save through the transforming power of faith. For faith is the solvent for every problem.  ABU3041

Siyyid Isma'il was possessed of such power and might that were he to be confronted by all the peoples of the earth, he would, without doubt, be able to establish his ascendancy over them.  BHU0055

"The mighty ones have become the frailest amongst the feeble, the powerful ones have turned into weak creatures; and the handmaidens of the Lord have become the valiant heroes of the field."  AB03093

Consider how a servant of the Abha Beauty, all alone, outwardly bereft of all aid and assistance, converseth in the way he did with such a person, proveth equal to the task, and causeth wonder  AB01647

The Kingdom of God is the source of all power; and naught but the bold and valiant among its warriors -- they that give life to the world -- shall be endowed with its grace and divine assistance.  AB01535

Leave the contingent things behind thee, then ascend with the power of faith unto the paradise of the All-Merciful, that thou mayest hear the call of the All-Glorious from the Fire kindled in the Tree.  BH01761

For it is the spiritual power of religion that rules over hearts and spirits, it is the love of God and fear of God that penetrates the veins and nerves, and preserves consciences and innermost thoughts.  ABU1164

I swear by the Beloved of the world that in this Day the steadfast and upright souls are mentioned before God as pearls of the ocean of names and are recorded by the Most Exalted Pen as letters of the Book.  BH00123

When I leave this world I wish my heart be entirely assured and confident and know that the Blessed Perfection has such servants who will arise to serve His Cause with miraculous Faith and extraordinary courage.   ABU3432

O thou sign of the love of God! In the physical realm power is a matter of attribution, but seek thou spiritual power and ascendancy that under the shadow of the true Sovereign thou mayest show forth true potency  AB10380

Those teachings that are scattered throughout the Epistles and Tablets are the cause of the illumination and the life of the world of humanity. Whoever promulgateth them will verily be assisted by the Kingdom of God.   AB02574

It is the Spirit that gives wings to man so that he may soar in the immensity of God's Kingdom. It is the Spirit that is the Collective Center of all the perfections. Take away the spirit from man and he is an animal.   ABU1476

It is my hope that during the time of tests thou mayest remain in the utmost firmness and steadfastness, so that like unto a lamp thou mayest be protected within the glass, and be not extinguished by the blowing of winds.  AB11293

This pure servitude is a magnet that draweth the confirmations of the One True God. A listless person deserveth naught but stillness and lethargy, but the servants of the Desired One are worthy and befitting of radiant light and the flame of Sinai.  AB12293

Be thou of such manner that should the idolaters behold thee, their foundations would be shaken, and should the monotheists see thee, their hearts would surge with the surging of love from this Fire which hath been kindled in the blessed Mount Sinai.  BH09309

[The people] would prostrate themselves before the stones upon which the apostles had sat, and this is due to their connection with God and from the power of the persistence of their reality, such that even their sitting upon a stone has this effect.  ABU3310

Should a soul detach itself from all who are in the heavens and on earth, and arise for that which God hath willed, God would through it render victorious His sincere loved ones, and the standards of the idolaters would vanish from all parties.  BH00076

Through the fire of His love hath the heart of the world been set ablaze, whereupon He - the Quickener of the World - calleth you from the Sacred Tree of Fire: Verily, there is none other God but Him, the Almighty, the Glorious, the All-Knowing.  BH06572

Although those with experience, like His Holiness the Spirit [Christ], have said that the Greatest Name has an effect even on solid rock, in truth it has absolutely no effect on a fool, for foolishness is the wrath of the Divine Unity and has no remedy.   AB04413

Then if thou glorifiest God thy Lord, all things will glorify with thee, and if thou movest, every mighty and lofty mountain will move with thee, and the stones and trees will remember with thee. None knoweth this save them that are endowed with true vision.  BH11383

Know then that true kingship is spiritual sovereignty and conscious dominion. The greatest king is one who rules over his own base desires and commanding self, and who reigns over the regions of hearts, souls and consciousness of the people of understanding.   AB11753

Some were awakened by this effulgence, raising their heads from the pillow of sleep. These souls spread throughout all regions, busying themselves with wandering through gardens and meadows, beholding the beauty of the Sun, acquiring boundless lights, and attaining divine bounties.  AB04816

I say unto you that anyone who will rise up in the Cause of God at this time shall be filled with the spirit of God, and that He will send His hosts from heaven to help you and that nothing shall be impossible to you if you have faith. And now I give you a commandment which shall be for a covenant between you and Me -- that ye have faith be steadfast as a rock that no storms can move, that nothing can disturb, and that it endure through all things even to the end; even should ye hear that your Lord has been crucified, be not shaken in your faith; for I am with you always, wether living or dead, I am with you to the end. As ye have faith so shall your powers and blessings be. This is the balance -- this is the balance.  ABU1324

In the heavenly Books, they have considered at most one believer equal to ten deniers, as it states in the Qur'an: "If there be of you twenty steadfast they shall overcome two hundred." Now praise be to God, in the Cause of God one person has become victorious over two hundred people.   AB04396

When His Honor Mirza Ya'qub caught the fragrance of the garment of the divine Joseph, he became so intoxicated that he hastened to the altar of love, dancing and clapping. He lit a lamp whose rays will shine forever. He raised such a melody and anthem to heaven that its joy and delight will endure forever.  AB11483

Praise be to God that ye have carried off the ball of victory and success in this arena, and made manifest the power of faith and certitude. As a result of this, rest assured that the light of truth will shine forth in that country with such brilliance that the gloom of error will be annihilated and destroyed.  AB04124

I entertain the firm hope that, through the bountiful favor of the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful, this long wait of thine will culminate in a new effulgence: that is, that thou wilt discover a fresh ardor and devotion, and wilt kindle such a spark that the fame of thy love shall reach all quarters of the globe.  AB08565

Should any one arise steadfast in the Cause of God and faithful to the Covenant of God, the hosts of the universe would be unable to withstand him nor could any of the powers of the world confront him.   AB04349

Make your assault with the power of faith and certitude, launch night raids with the weapons of righteousness, and with the fire of the love of God raise such a commotion that the armies of error will be scattered, the ranks of self and passion will be broken, and the might of the hosts of guidance will become manifest.  AB06227

God willing, confident and steadfast souls shall become the cause of the exaltation of the Word and the advancement of existence, and in every place and station they shall quench and extinguish the fire of hatred, animosity, rebellion and immorality with the pure water of patience, steadfastness, reliance and detachment.  BH11687

Though human nature is weak and cannot endure severe blows, yet the spirit is at the height of power and can withstand a hundred thousand calamities in the path of the Most Glorious. Give thanks to God that thou hast resisted through the power of the spirit and hast endured these difficulties in the path of the King of Oneness.  AB08200

The Bahais are the Army of God. Their defensive armors or weapons are: First, Faith; second, Assurance; third, Severance; fourth, Complete Attraction to the Kingdom of ABHA. If they are armed with these weapons, they will gain the victory in whatever field they may enter. As long as he is not equipped with these weapons, he will not be successful.  ABU0527

The lights of earthly sovereignty shall eventually fade, yet the light of this torch shall endure even from all eternity to all eternity. The more this light burneth, the more shall its radiance wax and its rays more resplendent shine, for the oil of this lamp is guidance from the All Merciful and its wick is provided through the bounty of the Lord.  AB08882

"But the weakest of souls, when they entered beneath the shadow of the Lord of Mercy, their star shines bright and their lamp radiates, their fame spreads and their voice rises high, their banner is unfurled and their tent raised up, their light is brilliant and their secret manifest - even if outwardly they were but shepherds or the most feeble of humans."  AB02553

Therefore hath the Abha Beauty, the Incomparable Beloved, shone forth in this glorious and distinguished age from the horizon of Divine Unity and appeared with the brilliance of the lights of truth. The pious ones who possess a seeing eye have the bounty of beholding Him, those with a hearing ear have hearkened unto His Call and those who are cognisant have attained unto the Divine mysteries.  AB12337

After all, my Messenger and Presenter and Kindler is aflame with the fire of the love of the All-Merciful. In truth, right is with him, therefore I beseech and hope from God, exalted be His glory, that his mention and his light may forever shine forth through the oil of wisdom and the utterance of God - exalted be His station - and remain manifest and evident in the niche of the world with a clear light.  BH09363

We make mention of thee with spirit and fragrance, and We desire to address thee with a wondrous address, that thou mayest be moved by the breathings of the Holy Spirit and that the fire of the love of God may be kindled in thy heart with such intensity as to take the reins of patience from thy hands and make of thee a brilliant flame, fiercely ablaze, calling out in the name of thy Lord throughout that vast region.  AB01279

Be like Mary Magdalene, whose faith was so strong that it was never shaken, even for a moment, when Christ was put to death; but with steadfast faith in him she went to his discouraged disciples and renewed and rekindled in their hearts the waving light of their faith by reminding them of the promise their Lord had made to them of his constant presence, and showing them that it was really of little consequence whether he was with them in the body or not.   ABU1351

While physical strength is a blessing, it has no real importance, for the mountain ox, the Arabian camel, and the Indian elephant possess strength that is impossible and unattainable in the human body. But observe the spiritual strength of man: a small Arab child can bring two thousand Arabian camels under control, and a frail Indian child can subdue a mighty elephant. Thus it becomes clear that human distinction lies in the power of the spirit, not of the body.  AB07093

I swear by that luminous Beauty and that manifest Countenance, Who was the most brilliant Sun of the earth and the realm of the highest heaven, that if a weak ant should arise with firm resolve, profound effort and mighty endeavor to promote the Faith of God, the ranks of the hosts of the Kingdom will, like an impregnable edifice, support him with such support as will cause disruption in the mightiest forces of the natural world and transform human reality into angelic truth.  AB09397

This can only be achieved through spiritual power, for it was spiritual power that, through the Messianic breath, made the Israelites renowned throughout the world. It was spiritual power that, in a brief time, raised the wandering Arab tribes from the depths of degradation to the zenith of heaven and made manifest their eternal glory. Were it not for spiritual power, how could the region of Hijaz have become the focal point of all horizons, and how could the barefooted Arab tribes have become the rulers of the world?  AB10992

Heed not your weaknesses and frailty; fix your gaze upon the invincible power of the Lord, your God, the Almighty. Has He not, in past days, caused Abraham, in spite of His seeming helplessness, to triumph over the forces of Nimrod? Has He not enabled Moses, whose staff was His only companion, to vanquish Pharaoh and his hosts? Has He not established the ascendancy of Jesus, poor and lowly as He was in the eyes of men, over the combined forces of the Jewish people? Has He not subjected the barbarous and militant tribes of Arabia to the holy and transforming discipline of Muhammad, His Prophet?  BBU0001

This is clear and evident; none can deny it, for the favors of Baha'u'llah and the power of His Covenant can transform a drop into an ocean, a gnat into a soaring eagle, a weak plant into a blessed tree, a feeble child into a mighty man, a mustard seed into a great mountain, and one unknown into one renowned throughout all regions.  AB02233

The spirit has two modes of operation: one through instruments and means, that is, seeing through the eye, hearing through the ear, speaking through the tongue. Though these instruments are at work, it is the spirit that moves them. Though these powers appear through the body, they are through the power of the spirit. The other operation is without instruments, as in the world of dreams where one sees without eyes, hears without ears, speaks without tongue, and travels without moving the feet. All spiritual powers manifest without bodily means in the world of dreams. Thus it becomes evident that the spirit has two modes of operation: one through bodily instruments like eyes and ears and such, and one without instruments. Similarly, while the body is in the West, the spirit discovers conditions in the East and manages affairs there.  ABU0088
