
A single deed performed for God's sake may give life to many  BH11764

"I have met many people who have been affected by you, Juliet."  ABU2514

If five or six people are found in Japan, it will progress very quickly.  ABU3116

Although this gathering is small, yet in future it will develop greatly.   AB03652

The life and teachings of a single human wonder transforms the whole world.   ABU0723

Now you must be the cause of some souls being guided to the light of guidance.  AB12288

Through the power of God it is possible for one Bahai to guide one whole nation.   ABU1247

One soul has the effect of an army and one horseman the effect of countless cavalry   AB02333

How often has it happened that a single deed from a blessed soul caused a tribe to be guided.   AB05146

A seed was sown in the countries of America. The souls were moved to great motion and excitement.   ABU2999

like a burning ember and fiery spark, set ablaze the hearts of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful   AB07214

For example if Mirza Abul Fazl knew English his influence in the West would have been a hundredfold.   ABU2360

Today whomsoever calls the people to the Divine Kingdom, the cohorts of heaven shall make him victorious.  AB06748

immense results and great effects have been produced by forwarding [recent] Tablets to that country (America)  AB05645

If a soul becomes confirmed with these hidden favors, a single horseman can charge against the world's ranks   AB02209

How often it hath happened that one blessed soul hath proved to become the cause of guidance unto a continent.  AB08278

You became the cause of life for countless souls and the source of happiness and glad-tidings for a mighty throng.   AB05187

that steadfast and firm one became the cause of illumination of two other souls, guiding them to the fountain of life   AB07292

even if in each city only two sincere believers are found who have completely forgotten themselves, this would suffice   ABU2821

certain nations and tribes would be directed with bright faces, rejoiced hearts and speaking tongues uttering the praise of God  AB07107

I swear by the pearls of the divine ocean of wisdom that a single accepted soul is mightier and greater than all the peoples of the world  BH00929

Consider thou how one spark sets on fire a great forest. Therefore, there is great hope, and the favor and grace of the Almighty is limitless.  AB06597

"It is evident that, through your efforts, the inhabitants of those regions are now inhaling the fragrances of Musk from the Garden of the Kingdom."  AB06530

We beseech God to make him like rain clouds for the soil of His knowledge, that ears of recognition may spring forth therefrom for the followers of all religions.   BH00351

One bright, glowing torch is better than a thousand extinct ones and one alive, spiritual soul will become the cause of the awakening of the inhabitants of a city.  ABU1224

I cherish the hope that, through the grace of Baha'u'llah, thou shalt be so enkindled in London with the heat of the love of God as to set aflame all who meet thee.  AB08888

The bounties of God have so empowered the friends in this divine Dispensation that they can awaken the capacities and guide mankind to the way of salvation by these means.  AB08158

Today honor and victory are destined for that soul who has freed himself from every thought and is engaged in the exaltation of the Word of God and the diffusion of the Fragrances of God.   ABU1087

Surely souls will arise who will strive with all their power to spread the Word of God, but our desire is that if we are not counted among those souls, we may at least be associated with them.   AB01302

"It is well known, that when once a blessed soul of any nation steps into the religion of God, it is capable of saving the whole community from the darkness of the world, from materialism and animalism."  ABU1657

Do not let the opportunity slip away. Consider it a bounty. Forget every other thought and move forward with all your strength like a lion, so it may be seen how the power of the Kingdom provides confirmation.   AB11811

Wonder not that one without refuge or shelter may, through God's grace, become a refuge and shelter, and that one without position or status may, through the Lord's bounty, become the founder of the house of peace.   AB05825

One pure soul can enlighten a world and one fragrant flower can perfume a rose garden. One star of guidance can lead a hundred thousand caravans and one eternal tree can cast its shade over a hundred thousand righteous ones.   AB02895

Simon Peter, that is, the great Peter of Jesus Christ, was a mere fisherman, and Salman the Persian was but a vendor. Simon enchanted the world, and Salman made multitudes become manifestations of the signs of the All-Merciful.  AB06947

Let me see what you can do. Let me see what the friends of God in these states will do. Will they arise with a superhuman energy and spread the lights if the Sun of Reality in all those great cities, towns, villages and hamlets?   ABU2411

Through this service, lowly individuals like Simon and Peter attained the zenith of eternal glory, even though at first no one paid them any attention. But in the end kings and monarchs became humble at the mention of their names  ABU1751

Always be thinking about guiding important souls, for when one such person becomes spiritually alive, they cause a thousand others to become alive, and the spirit of truth easily flows through the veins and arteries of many people.   AB00538

If the beloved of the Lord were each to revive one soul every year and to refresh him with the breezes of the Abha paradise, they would erelong witness that their land hath been made fragrant and transformed into the all-highest heaven  AB11627

Today if you teach one person it is as though you have resurrected a dead soul into life. It is as though you have changed the black stone into diamond. It is as though you have transmuted metal into gold, Satan into angel, animal into man. ABU3373

There are many instances in history that often through the instrumentality of one soul - no matter how poor and simple - a whole nation has been saved, godly ideas were promoted, celestial thoughts born and stupendous progress made possible.   ABU2338

Consider how the blessed souls in former times, with but a breath, ultimately made the world fragrant with the merciful breath, and it still continues. And if they uttered a word, a thousand books and scrolls became its interpretation and explanation.  AB01503

Do ye not look upon your own capacities. Rest ye assured in the bounties of the Blessed Perfection. He shall change the drop into an ocean and the moth into an eagle. He changes the stone into the precious ruby and the scintilla into the world-illuminating sun.  ABU1722

Although a hundred thousand kings have been seated upon the throne of earthly dominion, all have passed away and are no more. But the precious servants of Christ, although they were outwardly lowly, their blessed faces will shine brightly from the horizon of eternal might for evermore.  AB09182

The Islands of java, Sumatra and another one which are situated in the Indian ocean in the equator contain about 20 millions of inhabitants. These people were converted from idolatry into Mohamadan religion by one single person. Just think of his attraction and of accomplishing such a mighty task! When he finished his work he left the islands for an unknown destination and after that no one heard anything about him. Even his name is not known. Now it is evident that that one single person was a greater man than a million of the present day Ulemas. For he worked for God and not for fame or name or wealth. It is said in the proverb that often happens "one man is equal to one thousand".  ABU1643

Whosoever succeeds in teaching another soul becomes the cause of that soul's life, and that one in turn becomes the cause of another's life. This chain continues until ultimately that first soul has become the cause of life for a multitude. Consider what mighty effects result from the guidance of a single soul!   AB07273

How can the influence of this crucified one encompass East and West when only a few numbered souls among fishermen, carpenters and other lowly ones followed Him?' Far, far from it are these vain imaginings! Then observe what occurred - the banners of greatness were reversed while His exalted standard was raised up.  AB00553

The power of the faith of the first guide will be transmitted, find continuation and become manifest in the lives of other believers, until one sanctified soul will become the cause of the quickening a hundred thousand souls. Consider how important this is, for the guidance of one soul is greater than the sovereignty of a kingdom.  AB01773

Such blessed souls will be able to teach innumerable persons. There are three Islands in the Indian Ocean, situated in the equatorial line. The climate is very hot, but they have a population of about 20 millions. Formerly they were idolaters, sun and star worshipers. During the ninth Century of Hegira, a blessed soul arrived there, single and alone, but his intention was in and for God. He continued to teach the simple, democratic principles of Islam, but he was subjected to persecution, cruelty and ignominy. With deep-felt serenity, he suffered all for the sake of his conviction. Through his indefatigable activity, all the people of those three Islands embraced the religion of Islam. He was so self-sacrificing that he did not care to leave behind even his name. when he accomplished his work, he retired from the field, and all his traces were lost.  ABU1608

Should He so will, He could through a single soul subdue the entire world. Observe the sun, which is but one of His signs: through divine confirmations it alone hath conquered the whole world. When such a sign in the horizons is thus observed, this same is proof that He is able, in the realm of the souls of His loved ones, to raise up one soul with such power, might and ascendancy as to subdue all the kingdoms of the earth.  BH01230

When this sign is found in any soul, all his movements and stillness exert influence in the world and are effective therein. Consider Christ: when the Jews put Him to death, this martyrdom appeared so insignificant to them that they made no mention of it in their books. Yet because the aforementioned sign existed in Christ's being, it did not remain hidden beneath the earth, and thou canst observe what revolution it created in the world.  BHU0023

One day in Germany, as I was walking down a street, I saw a girl who was half the size of Fujita (Fujita was a Japanese servant who had a very small frame and was very short in stature). I saw several tall men following this girl. I was very surprised and stopped in the street. I asked her what was happening and who these people were who were following her. She said, These are my children. I said, How could you, being so small, have given birth to such big children? She said, I taught them the Faith.  ABU2334

From America, I await the appearance of a few people. Soon they will appear. And then you will behold unprecedented victories for the Cause.   ABU1265
