
The underlying thought in the mind of every American is to investigate Reality. Although many of them do not do it, yet this is a sub-conscious longing of every man, and may assume its normal activity by only pricking the surface.  ABU1608

By contrast, the people of the West--the Europeans--are very receptive.  AB10374

The Western nations for the last five centuries have been steadily going forward and with a superhuman energy pushing further and further the frontiers of ignorance and illiteracy they have attained to their present unassailable position.   ABU2197

The American people investigate everything. Their minds are open, their ears are listening. They comprehend the teachings of Baha'u'llah. They are thirsty for this salubrious water. They are a mighty nation, a noble people. They love the Reality. They are not limited. They have a vast country and enjoy all the material blessings. God has perfected His Bounties for them. They listen to every discussion with dignity, urbanity and politeness. If it is in accord with reason they will accept, if they do not understand they ask questions.   ABU0728

Truly the American people are noble in character. Their philanthropic endeavors are an evidence of their desire to serve others and to benefit the body politic. They are thoughtful of the poor; they are interested in the questions of education, capital punishment, and the alleviation of suffering. They are occupied with activities relative to the betterment of their kind. Their endeavors are exceedingly praiseworthy, and I am hopeful that through their united efforts war and the making of infernal instruments may be abolished. Only by this means will universal peace be established, and the barriers of hatred between races, countries and religions be forever obliterated. It is my hope that the American people may be eternally honored by this distinction.  ABU0219

The American people are not satisfied with their present day civilization. It is true that they have built a marvellous civilization of their own through giant-like forces and energy which in many respects is superior to the European civilization, yet they are striving for higher things, nobler ideals and universal principles. Look at the majority of the French people! How complacently satisfied they are! They think they have reached the highest acme of civilization and there is no further step to take. But with the Americans it is different. They may be proud of their civilization, because they have made the desert blossom like unto the rose, but they are not satisfied with it, they are seeking after new solutions of old and modern problems, they are thirsty for salubrious water, they are hungry for the bread of life, they are investigating the reality of everything. Their hearts are open, their minds receptive and in discussion never overbearing. They believe there is always a place on the top and so they go forward and forward. They never look backward or downward. They say, what we have accomplished in the past may be "all right", but we are going to do "the good" and after that, there is "the better" and then "the best" and is there any end to the infinite degrees of the "best"? for every "best" is followed by another "best" which is "better" than the former "best."... [This was the gist of the Master's talk with our newly acquired American friend.]  ABU0866



You are known for your learning, character, fairness, and love of truth.  AB00455

The German people on the whole are religious. They are very noble and progressive.   ABU2570

the inhabitants of Paris do not share the spirituality and zeal of the Americans, who are truly something else  ABU3744

One thing that has enabled the Europeans to advance so considerably is their aptitude to accept the truth. After investigation and research, even if it is against their previously held notions, they do not reject the truth and testify to its veracity.  ABU0505

"I hope that, as this century is a radiant century and this age a merciful age, the human world will become united and the standard of the solidarity of the human race will be hoisted in Paris; for Paris is a center of refined civilization and has advanced marvelously along the path of science... I hope that the soul of Paris will arise from the city of obscurity and progress steadily forward to the new civilization."   ABU0873

In these days the Day-Star of the East hath invested the West with a wondrous grace.  AB01854

In the olden time, it was not possible for women to sit at table in equality with the men, but in this Day it is different, and the change has been largely brought about by the position given to women in free America.  ABU2523

At present, that which the nation of England adheres to in terms of law appears good outwardly  ABU1164

For America has developed powers and capacities greater and more wonderful than other nations... May the inhabitants of this country ... rise from their present material attainments to such a height that heavenly illumination may stream from this center to all the peoples of the world.  AB11262


Praised be God that thou art now in an important place, a place where there is great capacity for the propagation of the divine teachings. For some time it hath been my wish that the call of the Kingdom of God may be raised in that great land. Nowhere in the whole world may be found people as civilized and humanitarian as the inhabitants of that land. AB11863

Germans were very kind to us. I am well-pleased with Germans. The spiritual future of Germany is very glorious.   ABU2319

Though we are people of the West, yet in intelligence, knowledge, freedom and wisdom we are leaders over the people of the East.  AB06107

Wonder upon wonder and regret upon regret that the West has become alert while some in the East are still unaware of this melody and song.  AB10909


Your civilization has grown under the banner of Jesus Christ, you have the light of reason, and just government has been established in the West.   ABU1600

There is a great spiritual light in London. The effort made for justice is real and in this country the law is the same for the poor as for the rich.  ABU3420

today through the assistance of the Abha Beauty the Cause of God is proclaimed with the utmost openness in the churches and assemblies of the West.  ABU2728

In America people are religious, they are attracted, they are investigating, they are open-minded. They praise God. You find there many spiritual people.  ABU3367

they mentioned the German believers, saying how good they were since no offensive notes had been sounded there and, God willing, great souls would appear there.  ABU0771

Only in America such brilliant ideas are born. This will be a most effective token of America's attitude in the matter of brotherhood and the rising generations of the several countries will not forget this unique lesson of charity and solidarity. America is big and their ideas are also big and all-inclusive.  ABU1099

Had He appeared in Europe, its people would have seized their opportunity and His Cause, by virtue of the freedom of thought, would by this time have encompassed the earth.   AB02805

The American College at Beirut is carrying on a sacred mission of education and enlightenment and every lover of higher culture and civilization must wish it a great success.   ABU0967

Praise be to God, that your churches are free from prejudices. They are not so creed-bound as not to be able to breathe. Many Christian churches in Europe are yet extremely dogmatic. But I have already spoken in churches belonging to your denomination. ABU1353

"Praise be to God, that I have seen the luminous faces and the heavenly hearts of the friends in London. People are turning their faces toward God. They are seeking the Divine Bounty."  ABU1068

They strove with heart and soul and endured various hardships and difficulties until they traversed the path of faithfulness and sacrificed their lives and spirits for that Unique Light.   AB00835

Indeed these blessed souls have the utmost desire for attraction to the divine fragrances, detachment from all else save God, exaltation of the Word of God, and service to the Cause of God.   AB01046

Therefore, this wanderer has seen no choice but to turn to the Western world and raise his call there, for their vision is open to such a degree, and they are intimate companions with reason and culture.   AB03298

In the West most of the men and women believers are engaged in teaching and learning, even writing - so far more than fifty apologetic works proving the Cause of God have been written by the leaves, published and circulated.   AB11645

The philosophers of Europe and America have transcended their subtle and abstruse thoughts and raised love's battle cry and the intoxicated shout. Glory be to God! The West is awake while the East remains captive to the sleep of heedlessness.   AB04021

Europeans act properly. As soon as one of them is ill, he is taken to the hospital where visiting is essentially forbidden. Once every so often the family goes and inquires about the condition of the loved one from a receptionist or attendant.   ABU0823

Indeed, He found a prosperous country and a people full of vitality, enthusiasm and fervor, with a just and kind government. That people has the capacity to acquire every virtue, for they are thirsting after truth and have a vast field for progress   AB02094

A single craft from among the crafts of the East and West that today serveth mankind and is the cause of ease and comfort for the servants is, in the sight of God, superior to all that those heedless souls have carried and declare from their pulpits.  BH00120

In all Western newspapers and journals, from all religions and nations, testimony to the greatness of the Cause exists, with clear acknowledgment that the Blessed Beauty is the renowned Personage of the horizons and the supreme Educator of the human world   AB01035

In all temples, gatherings, assemblies of the West Abdul-Baha has spread these teachings most forcibly. Not a single person could oppose him, nobody raised an objection. Everyone listened, and with great applause and in the utmost respect manifested their approval.  AB00245

Truly, this is a great and revered nation. Here liberty has reached its highest degree. The intentions of its people are most praiseworthy. They are, indeed, worthy of being the first to build the Tabernacle of the Most Great Peace and proclaim the oneness of mankind.   ABU0404

In the blessed Tablets the justice and the administrative sagacity of the Imperial government of England have been repeatedly dwelt upon, and now it has become clear that, in reality, the inhabitants of this country, after untold sufferings, have attained to composure and security.  AB02017

This supreme grace was bestowed upon the glorious government, which has surpassed the kings of the world in assisting the oppressed. We beseech God to strengthen it, preserve it, and ordain for it what He willeth. Verily, He is the Powerful, the Mighty, and worthy to answer prayers.  BH11727

"The English people are sincere, truth-loving, determined and seekers of reality. They are thirsty for knowledge. They explore the furthest ends of the earth in order to throw light upon puzzling problems. They are a determined, persevering nation. They are enterprising and investigators of reality."  ABU2261

There is a great spiritual light in London, and the ideal of justice is strong in the hearts of the people...The news of this incident, being noised abroad, did much to show the Eastern people that British justice is in reality the same for the rich and for the poor, and therefore worthy of all respect.  ABU1480

In the East it is often said that the people of the West are without spirituality, but I have not found it thus. Thank God, I see and feel that there is much spiritual aspiration among the Western peoples, and that in some cases their spiritual perception is even keener than among their Eastern brothers.  ABU0555

In America it is different, people are more spiritual, they seek the knowledge of God, they hail the truth no matter from what quarter it comes. If they learn that there is a house in China [the] architecture of which is a marvel, they like to know all about it. In brief, they are a nation of independent investigators.  ABU3039

The people of the West prostrate themselves at the mention of the East, while the highest aspiration of the people of the East is to take a step in the way of the West and follow them that they might progress, that their dormant country might become prosperous, that their worn-out nation might find renewal and existence.  AB00137

The American civilization has done much toward the progress and the upbuilding of the world. God has turned His special Glance toward America and has encircled that continent with His particular favor. Day by day it is progressing. Truly I say it is worthy of this Blessed Cause. Indeed it merits to be the herald of this Glad-tiding.   ABU2360

These Judges from the Court of the last Appeal and all the inter-state disputes and supposed unconstitutional legislations are presented to them for final decision. Their power and influence are tremendous and their judgment absolutely binding upon the nation. They are learned in law and legality. They are loved and respected by the people   ABU0743

The American people have had sound judicial training and the fundamental principles of their political institutions are based on the equality of opportunities for all mankind. Their national and state system of government has been always a good and beneficial example for the framers of the Constitution of the international Court of Arbitration.   ABU1515

They are very progressive and well-established in modern civilization. They are the investigators of Reality and are thirsty for every salubrious water. They have a vast and unlimited continent capable of undreamed development. They are ever pushing forward. One must move and push and be alert and active in America, otherwise it is not his place.   ABU0878

The Western people think differently, argue differently, and reach at the truth from a different standpoint. They are always looking for results. It seems that the very convolutions and cells of their brains direct their powers in those channels of arts, industries and inventions which alleviate the sufferings of mankind and bring about better conditions.   ABU3195

As for the American government and people, they are truly well-wishers and have no purpose except the benefit of all - meaning that if they undertake any work, or promote any matter in Iran, or establish a bank, or open commercial relations, or give a loan to the government, their ultimate hope and desire is mutual benefit, not restricted to America alone.  AB12128

This is a beautiful city; the climate is pleasant; the views are charming. All the cities of America seem to be large and beautiful, and the people appear prosperous. The American continent gives signs and evidences of very great advancement; its future is even more promising, for its influence and illumination are far-reaching, and it will lead all nations spiritually.   ABU1241

The Englishman has an unshakable sense of statesmanship, which is entirely entwined with his business sense; therefore he is the born conqueror and colonizer. The Englishman knows what he wants, and is capable of what he wants, and he does not want more than he is capable of. The Englishman is a realist, a man of the present and of facts. Therefore the world will at first belong to the Briton.   ABU1894

During the past year we have been welcomed in churches and pulpits of Europe and America by different denominations, - upraising the Divine Standard of Unity, summoning mankind to the Glad-tidings of the Most Great Peace, proclaiming the Reality of the Kingdom of ABHA. And this has been accomplished not only without opposition but by invitation, and in a spirit of the utmost love and fragrance.   ABU2281

He spoke much of the pleasure he had felt in the atmosphere of England. He said there was a strength of purpose in the English people and a firmness which he liked and admired, There was honesty and uprightness. They were slow in starting a new idea, but, when they did, it was only because their minds and common-sense had told them that the idea was sound. The English as a nation had pleased him greatly.   ABU1113


The true, liberal, religious spirit is more witnessed in America than in Europe. From an ethical standpoint they are far ahead of European nations. The American people as a whole are a religious people. They investigate the reality and are free from the fetters of prejudices. The Americans are an inventive nation. In the light of their manifold inventions their services to the world of humanity are considered as incalculable.   ABU2943

"The American women as a whole are better educated, more well-informed on classical as well as current subjects and the spreaders of the right ideals of education. They are endowed with a most wonderful power of assimilation and comprehend quickly the subtleties of philosophy and religion. A woman Principal in any of the high schools of the United States is more intelligent than the President of the University of El-Azhar in Cairo!"  ABU2631

In this western world with its stimulating climate, its capacities for knowledge and lofty ideals, the message of peace should be easily spread. The people are not so influenced by imitations and prejudices, and through their comprehension of the real and unreal they should attain the truth. Yet because I find the American nation so capable of achievement and this government the fairest of western governments, its institutions superior to others   ABU0901

I consider the American people a highly civilized and intelligent nation, a nation investigating truth and reality. It is my hope that through the efforts of this noble nation the solidarity of humanity may be continually advanced, that the illumination of the human world may become widespread, that the banner of universal peace may be held aloft, the lamp of the oneness of the human world be ignited and the hearts of the East and West be conjoined.   ABU0020

In America it is different. Mighty thoughts of philanthropy and illumined ideals of humanitarianism are set in motion and you find their reflections in the faces, because they are lodged in the hearts. one woman told me she is working day and night to abolish the law of capital punishment; another person told me she desires to have a uniform inter-state divorce law; a third was devoting his time to the betterment of the conditions of criminals in the penitentiaries; another one was trying to introduce a new system of education etc etc. I found these noble ideals have permeated throughout all the classes of America.  ABU2004

What wonderful vigor, energy, force and intelligence do the American woman display! They show such sound judgment, such marvelous range of information. In undertakings and actions their men are giants. The Americans on a whole are very magnanimous and hospitable and their prosperity and success in material affairs proverbial. In the domain of spirituality and ethics there is also great awakening. One can speak more intelligently and reason more easily with a plain American citizen than hundred supposed learned men of Acca. They love the Beautiful and strive to embody in their lives the precepts of artistic purity and noble holiness.  ABU0488
