O Heavenly Father! Make us successful in service to the Kingdom, acquaint us with divine mysteries  AB05585

O Lord! I beseech Thee...to strengthen me in Thy remembrance and praise and in service to Thy Cause.  BH08650

O Lord! Thou seest the ignorant one seeking the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy wisdom.  BH05137

My Lord, make him mighty in the Egypt of divine knowledge, and pure gold in the treasury of certitude  AB06474

O Lord! Aid me to gaze toward Thy horizon with Thine eye and to hearken unto Thy call with Thine ear.   BH03514

We are ignorant - make us knowing. We are sightless - make us seeing. We are dead - bring us to life.   AB07375

O my God! Ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.  BH11513

O my Lord, I have turned to Thee, set my face toward Thee, and hastened unto the horizon of Thy grace.   BH08649

O Lord! Aid them to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy oneness and the Manifestation of Thy singleness   BH07114

I have turned toward Thy most exalted horizon and have directed myself to the lights of Thy countenance  BH06683

Thou beareth witness, O my God, that I desire to behold Thy lights and long to apprehend Thy mysteries.  AB09214

Lord, Lord! Aid me to know Thee and assist me to serve Thee and make me victorious over all the worlds   AB04576

Remove the veil from all eyes and lift the coverings and curtains from all insight in this Age of Light   AB03711

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having caused me to hear and to know and to learn and to be guided   BH03050

O Lord! Aid this servant of Thine to remain firm in Thy Cause, whose power hath encompassed the horizons.  AB07112

I supplicate at the threshold of the Divine Unity and beseech for you assistance and grace in both worlds  AB03405

I beseech Thee to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of this world and the world to come.   BH07379

O Lord! Make our souls sacrifices unto Thee and grant us a new spirit. Bestow heavenly power and eternal joy.  AB06736

O Lord! Make my remembrances and devotions a single remembrance, and my condition in Thy service everlasting.  AB09514

My God, my God! Illumine the hearts of Thy servants with the light of Thy sanctification and Thy knowledge  BH07947

Therefore, O God, inspire Thy believing servants from among the people of the Gate with the paths of certitude   BB00498

"Then I beseech Thee, O God of the world, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in this world and the next"  BH09163

I beseech Thee...to assist whosoever hath turned towards Thee and hath sought Thy nearness and Thy good-pleasure   BH10383

I beseech Thee...to make me one of those whom the clamor of the people hath not prevented from turning unto Thee   BH08376

I beseech Thee to open before her face, through the key of Thy Most Great Name, the doors of grace and bestowal.   BH05626

My God, my God! I beseech Thee...to ordain for me that which will exalt me through Thy name amongst Thy creatures   BH06126

O my God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having created me and provided for me and made me know Thee and taught me.  BH03565

I beseech Thee...to aid me to perform such deeds as shall diffuse the fragrance of Thy acceptance and good-pleasure  BH10460

enlighten our hearts with the effulgence of Thy knowledge, and illumine our breasts with the brightness of Thy names  BH08600

Praise be unto Thee for having enabled me to recognize the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dayspring of Thy Cause   BH07118

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having made me to know Thee and taught me and guided me to Thy straight path  BH07000

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having guided me unto Thy path and illumined my heart with the light of Thy verses   BH05641

We beseech God to aid thee to serve His Cause and draw thee nigh unto Him. Verily He is the Mighty, the Chosen One.   BH05259

I beseech God to ordain for us what He has ordained for His loved ones, for verily He is the Gracious, the Generous.  BB00375

At the threshold of the Self-Sufficing One, I raise my voice in supplication and seek for thee endless confirmation.  AB08941

I ask from God, supplicating and entreating in the Threshold of Oneness, that thy utmost desire may become realized.  AB06343

O Lord! Assist him with Thy confirmations and aid him with Thy success. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful.  AB02808

Solace their eyes, O my God, with the splendors of Thy countenance, and their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge.  BH07672

I implore Thee to assist the heedless to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy unity  BH11165

O my God! Deprive me not of the wonders of Thy mercy and render me not bereft of the sweet fragrances of Thy holiness   BH04843

O Lord! Shower upon her all Thy mercy, single her out for Thy bounty, and kindle within her heart the fire of Thy love  AB03252

O God! John is Your wanderer and Your helpless one. He has become estranged from himself to become acquainted with You.  AB07069

O my Lord! Increase his enkindlement, heat and flame, with the fire which is kindled in the Sinai of Thy Manifestation.  AB11281

My God, my God! Aid me to serve Thy Cause and to perform such deeds as may be adorned with the glory of Thy acceptance.   BH10942

Then cause them, O my God, to drink from the Kawthar of Thy recognition and clothe them with the robes of Thy guidance.   BH06422

O Thou Kind, Incomparable God! Make these hearts familiar with Thy mysteries and detach them from friends and strangers.  AB08451

and have hastened unto Thine all-highest horizon - the Station from which the lights of Thy countenance have shone forth.  BH06629

that he may become one who speaketh in Thy remembrance, who gazeth upon Thy countenance, and who turneth toward Thy Cause   BH08840

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for honoring me with the traces of Thy Pen and adorning me with the ornament of Thy love   BH09613

I beseech Thee by the Word through which the oceans of Thy knowledge surged in the hearts of them that have recognized Thee  BH07109

Praise be to God that handmaiden attained unto the outpourings of the Most Great Sea and turned toward the Supreme Horizon.  BH05513

I beseech Thee to ordain for me a lamp in the light of Thy knowledge, that it may be with me in every world of Thy worlds.   BH04337

I beseech Thee to ordain for me the good of the hereafter and the present, and that which shall profit me in all Thy worlds   BH06599

that the possessors of vision may behold the signs of Thy power and greatness in all things and bear witness to Thy grandeur  BH09598

I beseech Thee, O King of Kings and Merciful to the oppressed, to assist them to recognize that from which they are veiled.   BH08847

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy straight path and made known unto me Thy Great Announcement   BH03378

to confirm me in rending asunder the veils of glory and the veils of fancy which have prevented me from turning toward Thee   BH02316

And I beseech God to make you a luminous torch, a shining lamp, a pure spring, and a fruitful branch in full bloom and leaf   AB05909

O my God! O my God! I beseech Thee by the beauty of the might of Thy oneness to assist me in servitude at Thy holy Threshold  AB09771

This humility and lamentation, supplication and restlessness, and pure spiritual prayer was accepted in the eternal Kingdom.  AB06493

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having given me to drink, from the hand of Thy bounty, the Kawthar of Thy knowledge.   BH08468

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Great Announcement... to illumine the hearts of Thy servants with the light of Thy knowledge   BH06335

O Lord! Make known unto them Thy path and teach them, through Thy bounty and generosity, that which Thou hast willed for them.  BH10830

I beseech God to assist thee to serve His Cause and to ordain for thee that which will draw thee to the most exalted station.   BH08348

I beseech Thee...to assist Thy servants to turn toward Thy most exalted horizon and to set their faces toward Thy countenance   BH06017

The entire text consists of prayers asking God to aid those who will recognize and believe in Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest  BB00230

O God! Awaken me! Make me mindful, seeing, hearing and free from all else save Thee! Captivate me with the Beauty of Thy love!  AB10238

Beseech ye God that all may be assisted to achieve that which is worthy of the Day of God and befitting to the station of man.   BH05795

O Lord! Illumine all faces with the lights of Thy countenance and all hearts with the effulgences of the Sun of Thy knowledge.   BH00590

May they become emancipated from the defects of their own nature! May they be imbued with the qualities of the heavenly angels!  ABU1256

I beseech Thee, by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and wisdom, to ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee   BH09669

I beseech Thee...to assist Thy servants to remember and praise Thee and to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.  BH05270

I beseech Thee therefore, O my God, by the right of Muhammad and His family, to graciously bestow upon me the knowledge of Thee   BB00519

I will constantly beseech and implore the Abha Kingdom with utter humility, and supplicate fervently for confirmations for you.   AB01363

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to turn toward Thy horizon and for having made known unto me Thy Cause   BH05444

O Lord! Let them drink from the cups of joy, and illumine their foreheads with the light that hath spread in the morn of success.  AB04239

O Lord, I ask Thee for a perceiving eye, an attentive ear, an eloquent tongue and for the life and heart of the paradise of Abha.  AB09373

Give sight to our eyes and hearing to our ears. Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful and Thou art the Bountiful, the All-Loving.   AB07305

O my Lord! Make known unto Thy servants that from which they are heedless, then strengthen them in that which beseemeth Thy days.   BH07525

O Lord! Illumine the eyes of their hearts through Thy bounty and grace. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Wise.  BH05411

O Lord! Awaken me and make me conscious. Make me detached from all else save Thee and enamored with the beauty of Thy countenance.  AB01339

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Remembrance to illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge   BH06140

I was astray - Thou didst guide me. I was blind - Thou didst give me sight. I was deprived - Thou didst made me privy to mysteries.  AB04737

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me to Thy straight path and made me know the Dawning-Place of Thy Great Name.   BH05353

veiled me from beholding Thy greatest signs in the realm of existence, and came between me and the contemplation of Thy holy lights   AB02862

I beseech You...to make me in all conditions turn toward Your most exalted horizon and hold fast to the cord of Your loving-kindness   BH07798

O my God! Deprive me not of the breezes of Thy revelation and inspiration. Ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones   BH06446

Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink from the cup of Thy utterance and illumined my heart with the light of Thy recognition  BH06020

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having adorned my temple with the ornament of recognition and my head with the crown of faith  BH05963

O my Lord! Praise be unto Thee for having made Thyself known unto me and turned me toward the direction of Thy gifts and favors.  BH03418

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to the highest horizon and given me to drink of the Kawthar of Thy knowledge.   BH02850

I beseech Thee for that paradise, for whoso entereth into the love of Thy Proof and His recognition shall enter therein after death.   BB00264

I pray God to bless thee and aid thee to receive His trusts, so that thou mayest receive the greatest favor in the world of humanity.  AB07835

O my God, my God! I am a servant attracted to Thee, humbly coming to the door of Thy Oneness and addressing the kingdom of Thy mercy.  AB08490

I beg of God to entirely remove the veiling from thine insight, so that thou mayest become duly cognizant of the teachings of Baha'.   AB04933

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy mighty Cause and to ordain for me that which shall profit me in every world of Thy worlds.   BH10839

send down upon them that which will cause them to turn toward the direction of Thy favors and to gaze toward the horizon of Thy Cause   BH09382

Make our eyes seeing and our ears hearing! Suffer our hearts and souls to be drawn unto Thee by the power of supplication and prayer.   AB05471

Enable him to ascend unto the heights of knowledge at all times and to attain unto that which Thou hast promised unto Thy sincere ones   BH07127

O Lord! Illumine me with the lights of Thy knowledge, then cause me in all conditions to turn toward Thee and to hold fast to Thy cord.  BH03203

Draw me through Thy holy fragrances unto Thee until Thy light burns away the veils of love...Let me attain unto the sources of grandeur  BB00362

O God! O Lord! Illumine the face of Thy servant who hath turned toward the direction of Thy mercifulness unto Thy most glorious Kingdom  AB11401

O merciful Lord! My soul is a sacrifice to the dust of Thy threshold. Waft the sweet fragrance to my nostrils and guide me to Thy path.  AB10832

"I will pray that the blind eyes may be opened, that the deaf ears may be unstopped, and that the hearts may have grace to understand."   ABU3085

O my Lord! Illumine the eye of my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and my outward eye with the vision of the signs of Thine oneness.  BH08371

Send down, then, upon them that which will assure their hearts, and quiet their souls, and renew their spirits, and refresh their bodies.  BH01693

Beseech thou God that He withhold not His heedless servants from the ocean of His knowledge, nor debar them from the Most Exalted Horizon   BH08970

My God, my God! Aid me in that which Thou hast commanded me...to ordain for me that which shall profit me in this world and the next.  BH08515

O my Lord! Aid Thy servants to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy signs and strengthen them to turn towards the lights of Thy countenance   BH04928

O Husayn! The world was created for attainment to the presence and hearing and beholding of the Most Exalted Horizon and the sweetest Call  BH03947

These are Thy servants and handmaidens who have turned unto the Kingdom of Thy mercy, and have supplicated the Realm of Thy divine Oneness  AB11044

I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty that hath encompassed the world to ordain for me that which shall profit me in every world of Thy worlds.  BH05884

O Lord! I beseech Thee to ordain for Thy handmaiden that which shall profit her in this world and the next and in every one of Thy worlds.   BH05199

the sun of Thy oneness hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy will, illumining the regions through that which was ordained   BH02777

O God! If my servitude at the Threshold of Thy Oneness is accepted, Thou art the Gracious: mine is Thy most great bounty and supreme mercy.  AB11129

I pray and supplicate the Divine Kingdom that thy father, mother and brother may, through the light of guidance, enter the Kingdom of God.   AB01256

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having awakened me and made me aware of Thy mighty announcement and Thy straight path   BH08509

O my God! Illumine the eyes of hearts with the light of Thy countenance, O Thou the Beloved of those who dwell in the earth and the heavens!  BH08497

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having given me to drink from the cup of Thy recognition and nearness in Thy days  BH07926

O my tender Lord! Cause me to enter into Thy laden Ark, and teach me Thy hidden mystery, and guide me to the shells of Thy treasured pearls.  AB09093

O my God! Enable Thy servant who was named Muhammad-Husayn to remember and praise Thee, then open his sight with the light of Thy knowledge.   BH10043

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast guided them that are nigh unto Thee to the dawning-places of the lights of Thy countenance  BH08837

This servant of Thine hopeth for Thy favors, longeth to attain unto Thy good-pleasure, and imploreth assistance from the Kingdom of Thy glory  AB11043

I supplicate and implore my Lord to strengthen thee by the Spirit of Life, make thee enter the Ark of Safety, and show thee the evident signs  AB10249

O my Lord! Thou knowest what I possess while I know not what Thou possessest. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH08576

We beseech God to assist thee and make thee a servant of His Cause among His servants, and to grant thee the good of this world and the next.   BH06286

Grant me, by Thy Favour, O my Lord, that which shall profit me in this world and hereafter, and draw me nigh unto Thee, O Lord of all mankind!  BH03965

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and the mysteries of Thy Dominion... through which Thou hast illumined the hearts of Thy servants   BH10908

Then illumine, O my God, our hearts with the light of Thy knowledge and aid us to arise to fulfill that which Thou hast commanded in Thy Book   BH09858

I beseech Thee to make me sincere for Thy sake and to hold fast unto that which will exalt the station of Thy Most Great Word amongst humanity  BH08955

My God, my God! I am he who hath turned unto Thee...that I may behold what eyes were created to see and hear what ears were fashioned to hear.  BH02466

I beseech Thee, O my Lord...to ordain for me through Thy grace and bounty that which will draw me nigh unto Thee in every world of Thy worlds   BH06809

I beseeched mighty assistance and bounty, that through pure bestowal He may grant such power that you may progress in all spiritual faculties.  AB09215

Give this grateful handmaiden to drink from the cup whose mixture is of camphor, and make her intoxicated with the wine of the Divine Covenant  AB10153

O God! O Thou Who illuminest faces with the light of guidance and Who quickenest spirits with the holy breaths from Thy most glorious Kingdom!  AB02026

I beseech God that thou mayest ever be engaged in mentioning the Truth, so that thou mayest become privy to secrets and of one heart and voice   AB07339

O my God, my Lord, and my Support! In Thee do I place my trust and reliance...Through Thy love is my salvation, through knowing Thee is my life  AB03075

Grant a bounty that may illumine the lamp of hearts with the light of guidance and make the gardens of souls verdant with perpetual springtime.  AB02461

This is Thy servant who hath quaffed from the hands of Thy grace the wine of Thy tender mercy, and tasted of the savor of Thy love in Thy days.   BH09872

I beseech God that thy spirituality may increase day by day, that thou mayest become a river of honey and sugar, and a sweet and flowing spring.  AB08967

O Lord! I am he who hath inhaled the fragrance of Thy garment and heard Thy most sweet call when it was raised amidst the concourse of creation.   BH09950

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having caused me to hear Thy call and guided me to Thy path and given me to drink of the Kawthar of Thy love.   BH07336

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having made me to know Thy Self and for not depriving me of the fragrances of the robe of Thy grace in Thy days  BH08011

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to Thy straight path and Thy mighty Message, for having made known to me Thy proof...   BH03177

I beseech divine confirmations from the threshold of God on your behalf, that you may become the manifestation of endless bounties in all things.   AB05346

"My God, my God! Grant Thy servants a portion from the ocean of awareness, and deprive them not of the effulgent lights of the Luminary of vision."  BH10473

O Lord! Deprive me not of the sweetness of Thy remembrance, nor of the knowledge of what Thou hast sent down of the wondrous verses of Thy Tablets.  BH08922

I beseech Thee to teach me the ways of the leaves of the Tree of Thy providence and to strengthen me to make mention as befitteth Thee in Thy days.  BH06351

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having illumined my face with the light of turning toward Thee and my heart with the lights of Thy knowledge.  BH04318

we beseech at the Court of the Self-Sufficient with humility and lamentation that this breach may be repaired and this wound may find some healing   AB07415

"My wish and hope is likewise that you become near to the threshold of the Lord of heaven and earth, so that you may become joyous and successful."  AB06273

I beseech Thee to ordain for me the reward of every handmaiden who hath circled round Thee, hearkened unto Thy call, and attained unto Thy presence   BH08025

O Lord! Illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge, adorn my temple with the ornament of piety, and my head with the crown of virtuous deeds.  BH07994

I will pray for the people of that city and beseech divine guidance so that hearts may be illumined and souls may rejoice in the glad-tidings of God  AB04457

"O Lord! Praise be to You for this and thanks be to You for this gift which You have specially bestowed upon the sincere ones among Your servants."   AB00528

Ask God that you may find the gifts of those days in the Most Glorious Kingdom and seek the results of those supplications in the Most Great Retreat   AB05206

I beseech Thee... not to deprive me in these days of the holy glances of Thy mercy and the sweet-scented breezes of the glory of Thy favors and gifts   BH09380

We beseech and hope for divine favor and grace that you may be assisted in that which leads to true exaltation and the attainment of infinite bounty.   AB11722

Thou shouldst pray fervently and beseech confirmations from the Sacred Threshold that thou mayst succeed in meeting the prerequisites of divine love.   AB06771

This servant also entreated and implored at the Holy Threshold of the Self-Subsisting Lord that you may be assisted to carry out the divine ordinances  AB02418

O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me to the ocean of Thy knowledge, to the Dayspring of Thy Cause, and to the Dawning-Place of Thy signs   BH09953

Sanctify their faces from turning to any save Thee, and their eyes from beholding aught except Thee, and their hearts from mentioning ought beside Thee  BH05192

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having unveiled to me and guided me to Thy path and made me know Thy Most Great Cause and Thy Mighty Announcement  BH04988

We beseech God to assist thee in His Cause and to open before thy face a gate from the gates of Paradise, that His breezes may move thee at all times.   BH04548

We are helpless, we are poor, we are wanderers, we are without head or refuge. We deserve Thy grace and are ready for the appearance of Thy protection.  AB01657

O Lord! Aid Thy sincere servants to be endowed with the signs of Thy Divine nature and to be inflamed with the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy Oneness.  AB06306

O my Lord! Illumine my heart with the lights of the Daystar of certitude, then forgive me through Thy mercy, O Thou Most Merciful of the merciful ones!   BH06014

Ask thou God to grant thee success and to assist thee in preserving this bounty, and to draw thee nigh unto Him. Verily He is the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH05825

I beseech Thee to send down upon me from the clouds of Thy mercy that which befitteth Thy might and majesty and beseemeth Thy generosity and bestowals.   BH07975

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to assist thee in that which He loveth and is pleased with, and to draw thee nigh unto Him in all conditions   BH07358

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me through Thy verses to Thy path and by the light of Thy countenance to the Dayspring of Thy Cause.  BH05494

O my Lord! I am he who hath turned his face toward Thee. Decree for me what Thou desirest. Thou art indeed the Most Merciful of the merciful ones.   BH03396

O Lord! Make this noble Afnan, who hath branched from the Tree of Thy oneness, successful in attaining Thy good-pleasure in all matters and conditions.   AB02298

O Lord, O Merciful God! Make these friends the recipients of Thine endless favors and make these loved ones the manifestations of Thine boundless grace.  AB01802

O Shoghi! Beseech God that thou mayest become a brilliant lamp in the assemblage of the spiritual ones and attain unto the breaths of the All-Merciful.   AB11489

O Lord! Illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and my eyes with the collyrium of Thy recognition, that I may know Thee through Thine own Self   BH08602

With complete resolve and utter helplessness, beseech the Sovereign Who doeth what He willeth that He deprive not any from the Kawthar of His knowledge.   BH06548

"O Lord! Withhold me not from the ocean of Thy bounty, nor from the heaven of Thy grace, and ordain for me all the good Thou hast sent down in Thy Book."  BH04804

The final portion is a prayer seeking divine knowledge - "I beseech Thee...to enable me to remember Thee and praise Thee and to stand firm in Thy Cause"   BH04796

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having enabled me to turn towards the Dayspring of Thy Cause, and shown me Thy path, and made me hear Thy verses   BH04422

It behooveth thee to beseech God to purify the ears for hearkening unto what hath been revealed from His presence, and the eyes for beholding His signs.   BH03956

Night and day I supplicate with utmost humility and imploring at the Divine Threshold, seeking heavenly confirmations for the friends of the All-Merciful  AB08001

I beseech the All-Knowing God that thou mayest become a fresh and verdant sapling in the divine garden, that thou mayest be nurtured and become fruitful.  AB08165

"I beseech God that at every moment you may perfume the nostrils with a sweet fragrance and become a manifestation of the confirmations of the Lord God."  AB06933

O Merciful One! O Compassionate One! Bestow a heart like a pure and delicate mirror, that it may become illumined and radiant with the lights of Thy love  AB11178

O God! O God! Verily these are the attracted ones to the Kingdom of Beauty and enkindled ones with the Fire of the Love of the Lord of Glory and Majesty!  AB10278

And as Thou hast made him great in name, make him beloved in deed, that the sovereignty of Thy power may be manifested in the dominion of names and deeds   BH07161

Then write down for Thy loved ones that which shall aid them to recognize Thy mighty announcement and Thy ancient mystery and Thy firm and mighty Command.  BH04353

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me, caused me to hear, shown me, and made me know Thy Call, Thy verses, Thy laws and Thy commandments.  BH03064

"My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having illumined me with the light of Thy knowledge and adorned me with the ornament of certitude in Thy Cause."   BH02922

My God, my God! Unto Thee be all glory, for that Thou hast made me to know Thee and taught me and shown unto me Thy manifest path and Thy mighty Message.   BH02143

Therefore, O God, do Thou send down at this moment upon all things that which shall sever them from their own existence and join them unto Thy existence.   BB00150

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided Thy handmaiden to Thy straight path and illumined her heart with the light of Thy mighty announcement.   BH06890

O my Compassionate Lord! Cause me to enter into Thine ark fully laden, and teach me Thy hidden mystery, and guide me to the shells of Thy treasured pearls.  AB09093

O Lord! Deliver us from attachment to creatures, from past sins and future afflictions, that we may arise to exalt Thy Word with the utmost joy and delight  AB07074

Make her speak Your remembrance among Your maidservants and kindle in her heart the lamp of the lights of Your oneness and the mysteries of Your uniqueness  AB11726

O my God! I beseech Thee...to give me to drink, at all times, from that which floweth from the fountainhead of Thy Pen and the heaven of Thy utterance.  BH08944

I implore Thee, O my Lord, by whatsoever is of Thee, to send, from the right hand of Thy might, that which will exalt Thy loved ones and abase Thine enemies  BH08240

Glory be to Thee, O Lord of all beings and King of all days! I beseech Thee by this Day which Thou hast made luminous through the lights of Thy countenance   BH06254

Praise be unto Thee, O Lord of all possibilities, for having adorned me with the ornament of recognition and illumined my heart with the light of utterance.  BH05842

O Lord! Ordain for them that which will make them among those whom neither the clamor of men nor the veils of glory have deterred from drawing nigh unto Thee  BH06401

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having made me know Thee and guided me and caused me to hear Thy call when every learned one was debarred therefrom.   BH02063

Awaken these slumberers and make these wanderers mindful. Make these western planets into eastern stars, and these fruitless plants into fruit-bearing trees.  AB01445

"Thou hast prayed and supplicated to God that thou mayest be protected from temptation, discover the inner life, close thy lips and find great confirmation"   AB06599

O Just Lord! O God of loving-kindness! We are saplings in Thy garden, planted by the hand of Thy mercy, and upon our brows is inscribed the mark of Thy love.  AB04649

We beseech God to assist you in what He loves and is pleased with, and to ordain for you what is best with Him. Verily He is the Guardian of the sincere ones.  BH07258

Having caused me to recognize the Manifestation of Thy signs, drive me not from Thy door which Thou hast opened to all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth   BH08963

Thou didst open unto him the gate of attainment to Thy presence and honored him with that which was recorded in Thy Books and Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets.   BH07856

I bear witness, O my God, to that which Thy Prophets and Thy Chosen Ones have witnessed, and to that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Books and Thy Scriptures.  BH06680

Then cause her to drink from the Kawthar of Thy forgiveness, that she may be purified from all that veils her from recognizing the Manifestation of Thy Self.   BH05415

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having strengthened me, made me know Thee, guided me to Thy path and illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge.  BH01890

I beseech Thee by the Sun of Thy Cause and the heaven of Thy grace, and by Thy loved ones who have circled round Thee and sacrificed their spirits in Thy days   BH09859

Bestow Thy grace and grant Thy bounty. Show Thy mercy, that we may arise to do that which pleaseth Thee and be drawn to that which is the magnet of Thy favors.  AB07988

O Lord! Stir the tree of his being with the holy breaths of Thy sanctity and illumine the essence of his heart and spirit with the lights of Thy companionship   AB05745

O God! O Thou Who art bountiful in gifts... that he may be seized by the rapture of the crimson wine from the vessels of Thy mercy in the most exalted company   AB03892

We remember all the friends in that land and beseech God on behalf of each one that which will cause the exaltation of goodly deeds and praiseworthy character.   BH03475

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge, and thanksgiving be unto Thee for having guided me to Thy path   BH07215

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Book, which none among the nations hath comprehended, to illumine the hearts of Thy loved ones with the light of Thy knowledge.  BH06661

I beseech Thee to illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge, then cause me to arise in remembrance of Thee, in Thy praise, and in service to Thy Cause.   BH04652

"My God, my God! I testify that Thou hast manifested Thyself and whatsoever Thou didst promise Thy servants in Thy Books, Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets."   BH04193

O God, teach them Thy Oneness, and give unto them a realization of Thy Unity; that they may see no one save Thee. Thou art the Merciful and the Giver of Bounty!  BH07996

"Praise be to Thee, O God of the Kingdom and Lord of omnipotence; for Thou hast guided me to the Tabernacle, the heavenly Jerusalem, the divine holy of Holies."  AB10668

O Thou King of Existence! O Thou Kind Beloved! The members of this meeting are the lovers of Thy Face. They seek after thee and they long to converse with thee.  ABU2087

Do Thou decree for me, O Lord, my God, and my Master, that which will make me feel content with Thine eternal decree and will prosper me in every world of Thine.  BH06026

"O my God! Praise be to Thee for having made me turn towards Thee and for having caused me to know the Purpose of all who are in the heavens and on earth."   BH08057

O my God, my God! Thou seest me turning unto Thee, detached from all else save Thee, clinging to the cord of Thy bounty and holding fast to the hem of Thy mercy.  BH06701

I beseech Thee not to deprive me from the sanctuary of Thy holiness and the Kaaba of Thy favors, nor bar me from the shore of the ocean of Thy gifts and bounties  BH06687

"My God, my God! I wish to hear Thy remembrance and praise from every vein of my veins, and from my hairs Thy description and the description of Thy loved ones."  BH04060

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy handmaiden. I have turned with my heart, my outward being and my inward being toward Thy most exalted horizon.  BH10086

O Lord of all beings and Sovereign of the hereafter and of former times! I testify to Thy oneness and Thy singleness and to Thy power, Thy might and Thy dominion.  BH07538

I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which Thou hast ordained for them that are nigh unto Thee among Thy servants and the sincere ones among Thy creatures   BH03979

"My God, my God! Deprive me not of the wonders of Thy grace, nor forbid me from the river of Thy mercy...Then ordain for me the good of this world and the next."   BH03757

Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink what flowed from Thy Most Exalted Pen and made known to me that which most of mankind were prevented from knowing.   BH03492

O Lord! Through Thy might and power, assist this servant of Thine to do that which Thou lovest and art pleased with, and to detach himself from all else but Thee.  AB08497

O my God! Leave me not to myself, but cause me to gaze, morn and eve, toward Thy most exalted horizon. Then manifest through me that which befitteth Thy Name   BH05050

O thou who art advancing towards the Kingdom of God! Verily, I supplicate God to illuminate thy heart through the Light which is shining from the Supreme Concourse  AB10184

Indeed you are one attracted, enkindled, firm, steadfast, mindful, suppliant, imploring and humble. Therefore surely all manner of divine favors will encompass you  AB02253

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Compelling over all names, and by Thy signs which have filled earth and heaven, to assist me in serving Thee and in obeying Thee  BH09948

that they may draw near unto the Dayspring of Thy Revelation, the Dawning-Place of Thine inspiration, the Treasury of Thy knowledge, and the Repository of Thy Will   BH09866

O my Lord! Deprive me not of the splendors of the light of Thy countenance, and make me not despairing of the outpourings of the clouds of Thy bounty and Thy gifts.  BH06253

I beseech Thee by the Lamp of Thy Cause and the Ocean of Thy knowledge and the Sun of Thy beauty to ordain for me the reward of those who attained unto Thy presence   BH04214

O my unique Beloved! I am a wanderer in the desert and a wayfarer in the wilderness. I am falling and rising in Your path, intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant.  AB02411

I beseech Thee by the Name through which Thou didst cause the seas to surge and the winds to blow, to open before the faces of Thy servants the gate of Thy knowledge   BH09861

I beseech Thee not to withhold eyes from beholding the banners that have been raised up in Thy name, nor ears from hearkening to Thy most sweet call in Thy dominion.   BH06594

I beseech Thee...to guide Thy servants to the horizon of Thy manifestation and draw them nigh unto the Dayspring of Thy knowledge and the Dawning-Place of Thy Cause.   BH05774

O God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the horizons to make me know the Dawning-place of Thy Cause and the Manifestation of Thy signs.  BH03921

We beseech God to open upon your heart a door of knowledge, to ordain for you the good of this world and the next, and to reward you with the most excellent of rewards  BH06455

Aid me, O my Lord, to achieve a singular victory. Open Thou the door of unfailing success before me and grant that the things Thou hast promised may be close at hand.   BB00372

Strive with all your being that day by day you may draw ever closer to the Threshold of the All-Aware Lord and become manifestations of divine favors and confirmations  AB07699

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for them that stand before the gate of Thy grandeur and drink the choice wine of Thy utterance in Thy presence  BH10859

I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy utterance and Thy mysteries hidden in Thy Book, that Thou assist me to turn towards Thee and to stand firm in Thy love.  BH09503

O God of all being! I beseech Thee by Thy lauded station to make me, in all conditions, among those who have acknowledged that which the Pen of Revelation hath spoken.   BH09119

I beseech Thee...to make me in all conditions to be attracted by Thy verses, to soar in Thy atmosphere, to hold fast unto Thy cord, and to remain steadfast in Thy Cause  BH06823

I beseech Thee to make me one of those whom nothing whatsoever hath deterred from turning to the light of Thy countenance and drawing nigh unto the horizon of Thy grace  BH06506

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having honored me with Thy days and with the recognition of the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy clear signs  BH06482

O Lord! Illumine his brow with the lights of Thy Kingdom, expand his breast with the signs of Thy dominion, and ordain for him every good in the worlds of Thy holiness.  AB04954

I beseech Thee by Thy Self and by the Manifestations of Thy power and the Dawning-places of Thy signs to strengthen me in that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.   BH01859

I beseech God to make thee eloquent and articulate in praising Him for what He hath eternally outpoured upon thee from the Center of Lights and the Kingdom of Mysteries   AB04576

Now we are living in the country of Canaan and are supplicating day and night at the Threshold of Mercifulness and beg confirmation and assistance for the friends of God  AB10311

O Lord! Expand his breast through the lights of sanctity, illumine his sight with beholding the signs of Thy unity, strengthen his back in service to Thy glorious Cause.  AB12243

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy Will and the heaven of Thy grace and the penetrating power of Thy decree to assist me in that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.  BH08371

O Lord! Illumine the eyes of their hearts with the light of Thy Day, that they may hasten to the horizon of Thy Manifestation and the shore of the ocean of Thy nearness.   BH07270

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for causing me to hear Thy call and guiding me to Thy supreme horizon, when most of Thy servants and creatures were debarred therefrom.   BH04824

O Lord! Make known to them Thy path and Thy tidings which Thou didst promise in Thy Books and Thy Scrolls. Then enable them to hold fast unto it and to cling to its hem.   BH02003

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great, Most Glorious Name... I beseech Thee by the radiant, gleaming, resplendent Light that shineth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy Name   BH09962

Illumine, O my God, the hearts of Thy servants with the light of Thy knowledge, then ordain for them a seat of truth with Thee. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH05922

My God, my God! I have forsaken the world out of love for meeting with Thee and for what lieth with Thee, and have cast aside what the peoples possess in hope of Thy grace  BH05033

"One gleam from Thy face divine One melody from Thy sacred shrine Sweet fragrance from those locks of Thine One whiff of Thy presence fine Bestow on us from grace divine"   AB04828

I beseech Thee to ordain for me from the wonders of Thy grace that which will profit me in Thy worlds. O my Lord! I have turned unto Thee and have placed my trust in Thee.   BH08337

I beseech Thee, by Thy sovereignty which is hid from the eyes of men, to reveal in all directions the signs of Thy manifold blessings and the tokens of Thy loving-kindness   BH05570

O my God! I beseech Thee by the Manifestation of Thyself and the Dayspring of Thy Cause to aid me to love Thee and to win Thy good-pleasure, and to stand firm in Thy Cause   BH04822

Cast me not out of the door of Thy grace, I beseech Thee, and write down for me the recompense destined for him who hath entered Thy presence, and hath risen to serve Thee   BH04053

Make me, O my God, among the people of Thy Cause who desire truth through truth and establish truth through truth, for besides this they have neither knowledge nor portion.  BB00011

O God! O Revealer of mysteries, Knower of the innermost secrets of the free, Witness to the consciences of the righteous, and Dispeller of the darkest gloom through light!   AB02321

O my Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and hoping for the wonders of Thy grace and favor. I beseech Thee not to disappoint Thy handmaiden from that which is with Thee   BH08521

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having enabled me to turn towards Thy most exalted horizon and to set my face toward Thee, O Creator of the heavens and Lord of Names!   BH06812

that Thou make us submissive to Thy sovereignty, yearning for Thy countenance, hastening to the dwelling places of Thy holy glory and gazing upon the garments of Thy oneness  BH05800

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning unto Thee and acknowledging that which Thy Books and Thy Messengers have uttered... make me submissive at the revelation of Thy verses   BH04248

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and Thy Dominion, and by Him through Whom Thou hast guided the servants to the ocean of Thy recognition and the sun of Thy grace   BH04194

Have mercy, O my God, upon Thy servants, then make them know the Dawning-Place of Thy Cause and the Dayspring of Thy verses, that they may turn unto Thee with their hearts.   BH03603

Send down upon me from the clouds of Thy mercy the rain of Thy grace...send down upon me from the heaven of Thy riches that which will make me independent of all except Thee  BH03080

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having brought me before the throne of Thy manifestation, caused me to hear Thy call, and shown me the lights of Thy countenance.   BH02326

I beseech God that day by day thou mayest draw ever closer, show forth devotion, offer supplications and seek intimate communion, until thou hastenest unto the Abha Kingdom   AB04844

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Places of Thy Revelation and the Daysprings of Thine inspiration to ordain for me all the good Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.   BH09644

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to the recognition of the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and for having illumined me with the light of Thy knowledge.   BH07050

O my Lord! O my Lord! O my Lord! Aid me and Thy servants to witness Thy signs, to hearken unto Thy call, to arise to serve Thee, and to hold fast unto the cord of Thy bounty.  BH05227

Through pure bounty, make one who is abased mighty in the Kingdom, and through ultimate kindness make one who is lowly a manifestation of the bounties of the realm of might.   AB04745

This is Thy servant who hath clung to the cord of Thy mercy, who hath stood within the garden of Thy oneness, and who hath responded to the call of the Dayspring of Thy mercy  AB11175

And supplications were offered at the Holy Threshold of the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name, that...the Beloved of thy desire may appear in the utmost beauty and grace  AB09257

that Thou mayest embrace me with the glances of Thine eye of mercy and immerse me in the seas of Thy forgiveness and purify me from everything that opposeth Thy good-pleasure  AB05505

O God! O Quickener of hearts through the breathings of the Holy Spirit, the fragrances of the gardens of the All-Merciful, and the breezes of the paradises of good-pleasure!   AB03309

With my Spirit I supplicated toward the Kingdom of God and begged for thee Confirmation and assistance, so that thou mayest become protected and guarded by the Divine Power.   AB02231

I beseech Thee...to make me of those who have drunk the wine of revelation from the hand of Thy bounty and who have soared on the wings of certitude to the heaven of Thy Cause  BH10356

I beseech Thee to make me so firm in Thy Cause that I shall see in all the realm naught save Thy most exalted horizon from which the lights of Thy Revelation have shone forth   BH09408

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having manifested unto me Thy Cause, and for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge, and for having guided me to Thy path  BH06267

"My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name through which Thou hast subdued the world, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise and in holding fast to Thy cord."   BH03069

I beseech God that you may be assisted to attain perfect joy and through abundant divine bounty and the grace of the Forgiving Lord, may attain complete gladness and delight.   AB04290

Therefore I pray and supplicate that the people of this country may be quickened by the breaths of the Holy Spirit, may turn to God, may become centers of divine inspirations   ABU0690

O my kind God! O my compassionate Lord! I was wandering, and Thou didst grant me direction. I was lost in mountain and desert, and Thou didst guide me to the path of guidance.  AB07561

O Lord! Bestow infinite favors, ignite the light of guidance, brighten the eyes, grant eternal joy to the hearts, bestow fresh spirit to the souls and confer everlasting life.  AB06469

O my Lord! Deprive me not of Thy Sealed Wine, sealed by Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting. Then make me of those who have aided Thy Cause through the hosts of wisdom and utterance   BH10459

I beseech Thee not to deprive this community of Thine from the fragrances of the garment of Thy Manifestation, nor to withhold them from hearkening to the rustling of Thy Pen.   BH10145

O my Lord! Praise be unto Thee for having caused me to soar in the atmosphere of Thy knowledge and to turn toward the sanctuary of Thy certitude and the Kaaba of Thy presence.   BH03252

O Lord! Assist this servant to arise and awaken those who sleep, and save the people from sins, and promote tranquility and peace. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   AB11907

"O Lord! Ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones and chosen ones whom the veils of glory have not hindered from drawing nigh unto the Dawning-Place of Beauty."   BH05819

I beseech Thee not to withhold from me that which is with Thee. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Powerful, the All-Conquering, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH07354

O Lord! Illumine our faces with the lights of Thy countenance, then ordain for us the reward of those who have attained Thy presence and drunk the choice wine of Thy utterance.   BH05522

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets and Thy chosen ones and Thy Books and Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets to make me one of those whom Thou hast described in Thy Book   BH03691

I too beseech the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful that you may become a close maidservant at the threshold of Oneness and be confirmed in that which is His blessed good-pleasure.   AB07512

Therefore, beseech ye God that ye may witness with your own eyes, so that ye may be counted among those of whom He saith: "He inclined his ear, and he was an attentive witness."  AB09565

Cover the sins of the weak ones with the hem of the garment of Thy mercy! Transform the indifference of the heedless ones into the essence of fidelity, wisdom and understanding!  AB08462

Raise your voice from the heights of that most distant region until 'Abdu'l-Baha may hear your yearning, your sighing, your cry and your lamentation unto the Kingdom of Heaven.   AB06505

My God, my God! Thou seest me with the breath choking in my throat...for the divine breath hath been cut off from me and the passionate flame in my heart hath been extinguished.  AB02489

Ordain, then, for me all the things Thou didst ordain for the chosen ones among Thy handmaidens, and rain down upon me that which will illuminate my face and enlighten my heart.   BH07658

We beseech Him to send down upon thee from the heaven of His bounty that which shall increase thy love and steadfastness at all times in the Cause of thy Lord, the All-Merciful.   BH01785

O Lord of mankind! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name not to leave me to myself, and to make me ever-mindful of Thee, detached from all creation. Verily, Thou art the Helper.   BH06273

O Thou Omnipotent, Powerful, All-Seeing and All-Hearing One! Grant power to this powerless one and give shelter and protection to this helpless one beneath Thy safeguarding care.  AB08104

Inspire me, O my God, with lowliness and brokenness before the threshold of Thy holiness that gleams with lights, and inspire me with steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament   AB00681

Ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy trusted ones, through whose deeds Thy signs were spread abroad and through whose attributes Thy attributes were made manifest.   BH08608

Beseech ye God and supplicate Him in utter humility and lowliness that He may not deprive His servants of their own Day and may enable them to attain unto that which was intended.  BH06137

O Lord! Awaken us from slumber and make us conscious and aware, so that we may become acquainted with the mysteries of Thy Holy Book and discover the hidden meanings of Thy words.  AB06736

I beseech Thee by Thy Self to send down upon me that which Thou hast ordained for me...Then cause me to drink, at all times, from the Kawthar of Thy love by the hands of Thy mercy   BH09376

Thou knowest, O my God, that mine eyes are turned toward Thy servants. Deliver them, O my God, from self and passion, and draw them nigh unto the Most Glorious Horizon in Thy days.   BH11068

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting, and by Thy Cause which hath been made manifest on this Day, to assist Thy chosen ones to serve Thy Cause with wisdom and utterance.   BH10156

We beseech God to assist thee in that which will draw thee nigh unto Him, to make mention of thee through His verses, and to illumine thy heart with the light of faith in His days.   BH08634

O my God, my God! Illumine the hearts of Thy male and female servants with the light of Thy knowledge, then send down upon them from the heaven of Thy bounty the rain of Thy mercy.   BH06840

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me and mentioned me, and glory be to Thee for having caused me to hear Thy call and to behold the traces of Thy Most Exalted Pen   BH05493

O my God! Sanctify the hearts of Thy loved ones from occupation with aught else but Thee, and purify the souls of Thy chosen ones from concerns that conflict with Thy good-pleasure.  AB07849

I beseech the divine favors that each of your requests, which are based on sincere intention, may be granted acceptance at the Threshold of Oneness. This is my earnest supplication.  AB02731

O Lord! Expand the breasts of the sincere ones through witnessing the manifest light, heal the hearts of the unitarians with the cup of Thy grace overflowing with the living waters   AB02856

O Thou kind Lord! Grant us Thy bounty, illumine our hearts, make our eyes seeing, make our ears hearing, and suffer us to enter Thy kingdom. Thou art the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  AB02286

Glorified art Thou, O my God! This is Thy Call which hath been raised from the right hand of the throne of Thy grandeur, whereby it hath drawn unto itself the hearts of Thy servants.  BH10826

I bear witness, O my God, to that which Thy Most Great Name hath witnessed amidst the nations...I beseech Thee not to deprive me of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones   BH04159

O Lord, Lord! We are powerless, and Thou art the Almighty, the Omnipotent. We are lowly, and Thou art the Exalted, the Glorious. We are poor, and Thou art the Wealthy, the Generous.   AB07006

O Cleaver of the dawn, Reviver of spirits, and Quickener of forms! Aid this enraptured and enslaved one, this captive of ecstasy and rapture, through Thy holy breathings in all days.  AB02700

I beseech Thee by the Name through which the trumpet was sounded and the dwellers of the graves arose, and through which Beauty was made manifest and the mountains were set in motion   BH10595

O Lord of all being and Sovereign of the hereafter and of this world! I beseech Thee by the Name through Whose manifestation all things proclaimed that there is none other God but He   BH05676

O my God! I testify to that which the Tongue of Thy grandeur hath testified before the creation of Thy earth and heaven, that Thou art God, and that there is none other God but Thee.   BH05224

admit me into the fortress of Your forgiveness and protection, accompany me with Your aid, cut me off from all else but You, and make my face sincere toward Your generous countenance   AB06005

I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of the dawn and Sender of winds, to assist Thy servants to turn unto Thee and to recognize the Manifestation of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy signs.   BH08251

Therefore, O my God, I beseech Thee at this moment to sever every soul from that which veils it from Thee in Thy presence, and to grant every soul that which draweth it nigh unto Thee   BB00310

O my Lord, the All-Merciful! Make manifest Thy manifest religion above all religions, open the gates of knowledge to all hearts, and send down tranquility and assurance into all minds   AB01823

"O my God! Aid me in Thy remembrance and praise, and ordain for me that which shall profit me in this world and the world to come. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the All-Powerful."   BH09928

O my God, I beseech Thee...to grant me the choice wine which Thou hast unsealed with the fingers of Thy might and bestowed upon the people of Thy kingdom through Thy bounty and favors.   BH10630

Then open my eyes, O my God, that I may know Thee through Thyself and not through aught else, and that I may not cling to anything that hath been created between the heavens and earth.   BH01328

Behold Thou mine eye expectant to gaze on the wonders of Thy mercy, and mine ear longing to hearken unto Thy sweet melodies, and my heart yearning for the living waters of Thy knowledge.  BH07663

My God, my Well-Beloved! No place is there for any one to flee to when once Thy laws have been sent down, and no refuge can be found by any soul after the revelation of Thy commandments.  BH03289

Send down, therefore, upon them what will thoroughly purge them of all Thou abhorrest, that they may be wholly devoted to Thee, and may detach themselves entirely from all except Thyself.  BH01888

I beseech Thee by the Dayspring of Thy Being and the Dawning-Place of Thine Essence to make all my deeds as one deed in Thy love and all my remembrances as one remembrance in Thy praise.   BH09952

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, to ordain for whomsoever hath succeeded in carrying out Thy laws in Thy days that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and Thy trusted ones.   BH09394

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge, and the heaven of Thy bounty, and the sun of Thy bestowals, to make me in all conditions one who looks unto Thee and speaks forth Thy praise.  BH08370

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy light whereby the world was illumined to assist me in recognizing the Manifestation of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy signs.  BH05916

My God, my God! [...] by what Thou didst testify before the creation of earth and heaven, and by what the tongue of Thy grandeur hath spoken, that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee.   BH04410

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having enabled me to acknowledge that which the Tongue of Thy grandeur hath uttered, and to confess that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book   BH03650

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Book whereby Thou hast guided the peoples, to confirm me in that which befitteth Thy Revelation and Thy establishment upon the throne of Thy mighty Name.   BH04380

O my God, my God! Assist these souls to chant the verses of guidance and to interpret "Then he drew nigh and approached, until he was at the distance of two bows' length or even nearer."   AB05385

I beseech Thee...that Thou ordain for Thy servant every good and every bounty and every mercy which Thou hast sent down in the tablets of Thy glory for them that are nigh unto Thy creation  BH08856

O Lord! The poor one hath hastened to the gate of Thy riches. I beseech Thee by Thy Self not to disappoint him in what he seeketh from the ocean of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy generosity   BH08952

I beseech Thee...to raise me up from my resting-place on the Day of Resurrection, believing in Thee and in Thy signs, loving what Thou lovest, and abstaining from that which Thou lovest not  BB00599

O Lord! Through the vernal showers of Thy mercy, bestow freshness and beauty upon these saplings, and make them blossoms of knowledge and learning and verdant leaves of wisdom and sciences.  AB09134

O my God! Aid me through Thy grace and mercy, and cause me to speak Thy praise amongst Thy creation... Guide them to the straight path, delight their eyes with beholding Thy manifest light   AB05017

Glory be unto Thee, O my God, my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Dominant over all names, to make me swayed by the breezes of Thy Will and moved by the sovereignty of Thy Purpose.  BH10855

I beseech Thee, O Creator of names and Educator of earth and heaven, to give Thy loved ones to drink of that which will make them detached from all else save Thee and steadfast in Thy Cause.  BH09387

Then raise him to such a station where the world will not prevent him from Thy remembrance and praise, nor will what is created therein prevent him from turning toward the court of Thy mercy  BH06582

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having guided me and made me know Thee and given me to drink from the Kawthar of Thy knowledge on a day when most of Thy creatures were debarred therefrom   BH05202

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to love Thee and turn unto Thy face, and for having made me know Thyself after every ignorant and remote one turned away from Thee.   BH02521

Verily, I beseech the manifest horizon that the Lord of the worlds may lead thee to the living waters, that thy thirst may be quenched, and thy burning desire cooled, and thy ailment healed.  AB04530

My God, my God! My Lord, my Lord! I have turned to Thee, detached from all else but Thee, and have hastened unto Thee, hoping for that which will draw me nigh unto the threshold of Thy grace.  BH04914

My God, my God! Thy remembrance hath attracted me, Thy call hath stirred me, the breathings of Thy revelation have quickened me, and the manifestations of Thy bounty have encompassed me.  BH07181

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy power which hath encompassed all existence, both seen and unseen, to ordain for me all the good Thou hast sent down in Thy Book and destined for Thy chosen ones.  BH04752

When thou hearest My call, turn thy face toward Me and say: "My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to the Dayspring of Thy signs and the Manifestation of Thy clear tokens..."  BH04617

Upon reading it, this servant immediately supplicated at the Threshold of Oneness, that perhaps the divine favors might become manifest and joy and gladness might be obtained for the hearts.   AB01434

O spiritual friends! Jenab-i-Haydar-'Ali, with utmost humility and need, supplicated and implored at the Court of the Self-Sufficient, and beseeched endless mercy and boundless favor for you.  AB03514

I ask the Blessed Beauty to assist you and confirm you. I beg of God that you may become more enlightened, more severed, more spiritual, more aflame and that you may be humble and submissive.  ABU2543

I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art the Goal of the world and the Beloved of the nations, by Thy Self, to ordain for me that which befitteth Thy grace and to aid me in Thy remembrance and service.   BH07774

I beseech Thee, O God of the Kingdom and Sovereign over the realm of might, to make me in all conditions one who gazeth toward Thee, boweth down before Thy face, and uttereth Thy remembrance.   BH06978

O Lord of the righteous and Master of the chosen ones! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the manifestations of Thy power to assist Thy servants in Thy remembrance and praise.  BH04635

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs and by that which lay hidden in the treasury of Thy grace, O Lord of the Kingdom of Names, to cause me to circle round Thee in every world of Thy worlds   BH04334

O Lord! Purify her heart with the water of Thy knowledge, then cause her and Thy servants to drink of the living waters which flow at the heart of the Ridvan through Thy name, the All-Merciful  BH03931

O my Lord! O my Lord! Thou hast caused me to hear the Call, guided me unto the sea of favor, awakened me through Thy fragrance breeze, and quickened me by the spirit of Thy greatest guidance.   AB03891

I beseech with utmost humility and need from the Great Bounty and Gift that you, together with your two dear children, may be accepted at the Threshold of Divine Oneness and draw near unto God  AB12667

O God, I entreat Thee by Thy divine sweetness to make my testimony a lamp unto my heart, and a source of light and illumination unto my face and my soul, in this world and in the world to come   BH05255

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to lead all souls, even if by chains, unto the path of Thy good-pleasure. O my God, they are a people who comprehend not and know not what is best for them  BH10586

I beseech Thee by the rain-showers of Thy mercy, which have caused the cities of meaning and utterance to smile, to enable me to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Mighty Book.  BH10497

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Compelling, that Thou open before our faces the doors of Thy mercy and make us to be of those who have acknowledged Thy singleness and confessed Thy oneness   BH08861

I beseech Thee, O Master of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen, to assist me in Thy remembrance and to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for the leaves of the Tree of Thy Cause.  BH05693

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge, honored me with Thy presence, shown me Thy signs and caused me to hear Thy call.  BH05240

O Kind and Singular God! Although capacity and capability are lacking and the difficulties of steadfastness in tribulations are unlimited, yet capability and capacity are gifts bestowed by You.  AB05754

This is Thy servant who hastened to the fields of Thy mercy and ran to the wilderness wherein no voice is heard except Thy voice, and who sought to drink from the clouds of Thy grace and bounty.  BH10906

My God, my God! Thou seest me clinging fast unto Thee, acknowledging that which the Tongue of Thy grandeur hath spoken, and confessing that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Books and Thy Tablets.  BH09668

illuminate through him the inner visions, bring joy to watchful eyes through him, make sweet the thoughts through him, purify the consciences through him, and adorn the inmost hearts through him  AB04949

I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Places of Thy Revelation, and the Daysprings of Thy Command, and the Manifestations of Thy Self, to aid Thy loved ones in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with  BH08854

I supplicate at the Threshold of Oneness that you may be preserved and protected in His shelter of protection, and be assisted in spreading the verses of unity, and be confirmed in guiding others  AB05665

Then ordain for Thy trusted ones that which shall profit them in this world and the next and draw them nearer in all conditions unto the Dayspring of Thy grace and the Dawning-Place of Thy bounty   BH07114

O my God, my God! Illumine the hearts of Thy servants with the light of Thy knowledge, adorn them with the ornament of Thy love, and ordain for them that which will draw them nigh unto Thy court.   BH09031

Then cause the ears of their inner being to hear the melodies of the might of Thy Lordship, and enable them to witness with the eyes of their hearts the wonders of the handiwork of Thine eternity   BH07164

I beseech Thee by the treasury of Thy knowledge and the Dayspring of Thy Cause to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, and to strengthen me in that which beseemeth Thy days.   BH04917

Therefore I beseech God that thou mayest become pure and holy like thy father, mayest sacrifice thyself for the Blessed Beauty, and mayest be confirmed in all that wherein thy father was assisted.  AB08944

O Lord! Strengthen them with proof and demonstration, make them successful in knowledge and exposition, and cause them to speak forth with proofs before which necks bow down and voices are hushed.  AB12360

O my God! These are servants whose eyes have been opened to Thy heavenly Kingdom and whose sight has been illumined by witnessing Thy signs and whose ears have been delighted by hearing Thy call.   AB04510

O Lord, remove from the horizon of my hopes the clouds of my troubles and sorrows, and light within the niche of my heart and the glass of my spirit the lamp of my hope and the light of my desires  AB06006

Disappoint me not, I entreat Thee, by withholding from me the things Thou didst ordain for the chosen ones among Thy handmaidens, and supply me with the good of this world and of the world to come.  BH06201

O my God! Leave me not to myself and my desires. I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which spirits were attracted and bodies took flight, to aid me in recognizing the Manifestation of Thy Self   BH05740

O Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens! I beseech Thee by Thy exile, by the wrongs Thou hast suffered, and by Thy imprisonment, to open before my face the gate of the city of Thy knowledge   BH05361

My God, my God! Praise, glory, thanks and splendor be unto Thee for having turned toward Thy servant and sent down to him that which maketh known unto him Thy straight path and Thy mighty Message.   BH02225

My God, my God! Illumine the hearts of Thy loved ones with the lights of Thy utterance and adorn them with that which will draw them nigh unto the court of Thy glory and the carpet of Thy grandeur.  BH02958

O my Lord! Thou seest how Thy handmaiden hath turned unto Thee and clung to the cord of Thy grace. I beseech Thee not to disappoint her from the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy generosity.  BH08990

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Aid Thy servants to turn towards the Dawning-Place of Thy revelation and inspiration, and Thy handmaidens to the horizon of Thy Cause and the dayspring of Thy guidance.  BH08858

We beseech God not to deprive that handmaiden from the ocean of His bounty and to count her among those handmaidens who have turned their faces to the All-Merciful in the days of His manifestation.   BH06417

O Lord of Names and Creator of Heaven! Aid me in all conditions to hearken unto Thy call and to turn unto the lights of Thy countenance and to behold the manifestations of the Sun of Thy Revelation.  BH03319

O Lord! Make those pure souls radiant and raise them from the depths of dust to the highest degrees of heaven. Make their hearts gardens of meanings and their souls the paradise of the All-Merciful   AB03037

O Thou beloved of my heart and soul! I have no refuge save Thee. I raise no voice at dawn save in Thy commemoration and praise. Thy love encompasseth me and Thy grace is perfect. My hope is in Thee.  AB09479

O Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thy most exalted horizon and clinging to the cord of Thy loving-kindness...I beseech Thee by Thy Most Self-Subsisting Name not to disappoint me of Thy sealed wine  BH04784

The closing prayer beginning with "My God, my God! I testify to that which Thy Most Exalted Pen and the Tongue of Thy Grandeur have spoken..." constitutes a powerful prayer for spiritual recognition   BH03574

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having caused me to hear Thy call and guided me to Thy path and made me know the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation which was hidden in the eternity of eternities.   BH02121

I beseech Thee to rend asunder the veil that hath come between Thee and them, that all may turn to the horizon of Thy grace and the Dayspring of Thy generosity and the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation.  BH07660

Tear asunder, O my God, the veil of vain imaginings that hath obscured the vision of Thy people, that all may haste towards Thee, may tread the path of Thy pleasure, and walk in the ways of Thy Faith.  BH05571

O God, my God! Illumine the hearts of Thy servants with the light of Thy knowledge. Suffer them to enter beneath the shadow of the tabernacle of Thy grandeur and the depths of the ocean of Thy unity.   BH01900

O my Lord and my Hope! I supplicate before Thee and implore Thee and place my trust in Thee. Have mercy upon me through Thy grace and loving-kindness, illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge  AB11065

"Praise be unto Thee, O Creator of all things, for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and for having revealed unto me that whereby the hearts of the chosen ones were attracted."   BH06940

I ask Thee by that Name whereby all idols have been shattered, and through which all vain imaginations have passed away, to immerse me in the ocean of certitude, O Thou Who art the Lord of Revelation!   BH06685

O Lord! Confer upon this Thy servant and upon me the supreme bounty of being pleased with every soul and pleasing unto all. I beseech God to grant that we may both render service at His holy Threshold.  AB04675

O Lord! O Lord! Verily These souls are attracted toward the Kingdom of Thy Holiness and these hearts are enkindled with the Fire of Thy Love and these spirits are soaring toward the apex of Thy Mercy.   ABU2184

My God, my God! You know what lies hidden in my heart and the depths of my being...Grant me the blessing of witnessing and attaining Your presence and entering beneath the shade of Your uttermost Tree.  AB11875

Look upon her with the glances of the eyes of Thy mercy and illumine her heart with the light of Thy knowledge, in such wise that nothing shall prevent her from gazing toward the direction of Thy gifts.  BH05076

My God, my God! Accept from us that which our tongues utter in prayer before Thy face and in communion with Thee. O Lord! Aid us to hold fast unto Thee and unto that which hath been sent down from Thee   BH04911

My God, my God! Separation from Thee hath destroyed me, remoteness from Thee hath consumed me, Thy Manifestation hath bewildered me, Thy verses have enkindled me, and Thy clear tokens have attracted me.  BH03876

O God! Illumine their faces, gladden their spirits with the Most Great Glad-Tidings, brighten their eyes with beholding the signs of guidance, and delight their ears with hearing the Most Exalted Call.   AB05109

O God! To Thee be praise for having rent asunder from before the eyes of hearts the veils of light and layers of intense darkness... Thus were hearts attracted, breasts dilated, and spirits made joyful   AB03555

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having made known unto me Thy path, made clear to me Thy proof, sent down from the kingdom of utterance Thy verses, and manifested to the servants Thy clear tokens.   BH05742

O God, my refuge, my shelter, my protection, my sanctuary, my escape, my aid, my desire and my benefactor! Praise be to Thee for illumining inner and outer vision with the lights of Thy overflowing grace  AB00848

Teach us the way of repentance, forgive our sins, grant Thy bounty, cover our faults, overlook our transgressions, and be merciful. O Lord! Sin brings destruction - make us aware and grant us awakening.   AB11826

My Lord! Thou knowest and seest that Thy servant, the lion of the arena of conflict and the lion of the thickets of faithfulness, hath roared with Thy remembrance and been guided by the light of guidance.  AB10229

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant and the son of Thy handmaiden. I heard Thy most sweet call and turned unto Thee, O Creator of the heavens and Lord of the Kingdom of Names.   BH03541

My God, my God! This is Thy servant whose breast hath been dilated by the fragrances of Thy holiness and whose heart hath been attracted by the successive verses sent down from the kingdom of Thy sanctity.  AB07857

I beseech Thee by the lamp of Thy divine Essence in the niche of Thy holy Oneness to inspire Thy servants with that which will make them independent of all save Thee and sanctified from all except Thyself.   BH04246

I beseech Thee by the Crimson Scroll and by the Point through which all things were distinguished, and through which was manifested that which lay hidden in the kingdom of names, to assist me in this Cause   BH03844

O God, the Kind! Illumine the hearts with the light of the Most Great Guidance. Bestow life upon souls through the glorious glad-tidings. Brighten eyes through beholding Thy lights. Make ears hear Thy call.  AB06736

We beseech God to enliven the hearts and make the souls fresh and verdant, to make the blind seeing and the deaf hearing, to grant a portion to the deprived ones and bestow a share upon the despondent ones.  AB07582

O my God! Thou seest me turning toward the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy grace and the horizon of Thy favors, and directing my face unto Thy face after the passing of all who dwell in Thy realm.   BH08945

My God, my God! The intoxication of Thy utterance hath seized me and the sweetness of Thy Call hath attracted me. I beseech Thee by Thy might and power to make me known by Thy name and inscribed by Thy Pen.   BH07382

praying to God that He make thee a pure soul, sanctified from contingent conditions, made goodly through the outpouring of the All-Merciful, well-pleased and pleasing, at peace through the grace of thy Lord   AB05392

We beseech God to preserve thee and guard thee from the wicked and evil ones, and make thee one who speaketh His praise and serveth His loved ones, and to ordain for thee the good of this world and the next.   BH02662

I continually offer supplications, entreaties and prayers at the Threshold of Oneness from the depths of my heart that you may be assisted in all that befits this blessed relationship to that glorious martyr.  AB04569

O my Lord! Ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones who have aided Thy Cause with their souls, their spirits and all that they possess...ordain for me that which shall profit me in Thy worlds   BH07311

O Thou Lord of all names! I beseech Thee by Thy most excellent names to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones who have offered up their lives in Thy path.  BH07191

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy straight path, taught me recognition of Thee and turning toward Thee, and made known to me the oneness of Thy Being and the sanctity of Thy Self.  BH02274

O Lord! Make them two signs of Thy pardon in the vicinity of Thy great mercy, and two banners of Thy forgiveness in Thy most glorious Kingdom, and two manifestations of Thy favors in Thy most exalted Paradise.  AB02745

O Lord! Ignite the fires of Your love in hearts, explain the verses of Your bounty in breasts, and grant abundant grace to every grateful servant who calls upon You with a throbbing heart morning and evening.   AB00922

O Lord! Thou seest this poor one making his way to the Dayspring of Thy riches and the Dawning-Place of Thy knowledge. I implore Thee not to disappoint him of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.   BH09966

My God, my God! Unto Thee be glory for having guided me to Thy mighty Announcement, and unto Thee be praise for having ordained for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy sincere handmaidens and faithful servants.   BH08021

I beseech Thee...to make me in all conditions one who calls out Thy Name and is set ablaze with the fire of Thy love and holds fast to the cord of Thy bounty and clings to the hem of the robe of Thy generosity   BH05116

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I make mention of Thee in this hour when the doves of the sanctity of Thy sovereignty warble, and from the clouds of Thy oneness there rain down wondrous verses of Thy grandeur...   BH01697

My God, my God! Adorn my heart with the ornament of Thy love, my tongue with Thy remembrance and praise, mine eyes with beholding Thy horizon, and my face with turning toward the lights of Thy countenance.  BH06790

I implore for you heavenly life; pray for you eternal happiness, pray for you the spirit of the Kingdom and the second birth, so that you may enter from the natural world into the world of the Merciful Kingdom.  AB12634

I beseech Thee, O Lord of eternity and Educator of the world, to give me to drink of the choice wine of grace from the hands of Thy bounty and the living waters of loving-kindness from the fingers of Thy favor.   BH08946

O my God and the God of creation, my Beloved and the Beloved of all who are in the heavens and on earth! I beseech Thee...to assist me to love Thee and to gain Thy good-pleasure, and to remember and praise Thee   BH08377

I beseech God that He may make that stirring leaf intimate with holy fragrances, so that in gatherings of fellowship you may become the cause of enthusiasm and rapture among the handmaidens of the All-Merciful.   AB05899

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word of Oneness and by its power pervading the realities of all things, to assist these Thy servants to cling to Thy Most Firm Handle and hold fast to Thy Most Perfect Covenant  AB12330

O Lord! Rend asunder the veil and remove the covering from eyes and insights, and tear away the curtains from faces and innermost hearts, that they may witness Thy holy lights shining from the East and the West.  AB12805

I beseech Thee by the mysteries hidden in Thy knowledge and the signs treasured in Thy Pen to confirm me and my son in turning unto the lights of Thy countenance and clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy mercy.   BH03278

My God, my God! Aid Thy loved ones to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book, and enable them to hold fast unto the wisdom which Thou hast commanded all to observe in Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets.  BH01818

I beseech Thee by the light of Thy countenance and the fire of the Tree of Thy Cause not to deprive me of the glances of Thy favors, nor to shut me out from the ocean of Thy outpouring and the river of Thy grace.  BH10427

Therefore nourish this grass with the rain of Thy bounty, refresh and vivify these young, languishing trees with the eternal springtime. Awaken us, enlighten us, give us eternal life and accept us in Thy kingdom.  AB10794

Assist him to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee amidst Thy creatures, and cause him to speak forth Thy attributes and glorification in the gatherings of Thy oneness and the assemblages of Thy sanctification  AB10231

O my Lord! Thou seest me turning toward the heaven of Thy generosity and the sun of Thy grace. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me from that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones from Thy Most Exalted Pen.   BH08962

I beseech Thee by the Name through which the near ones were drawn and advanced toward the arrows of the enemies in Their love for Thee and Their good pleasure, to assist me in that which Thou lovest and approvest.  BH07786

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name whereby Thou hast guided them that know unto the court of Thy good-pleasure...that I may know Thee by Thy Self and detach myself from all else besides Thee   BH03146

I beseech God to assist thee, to strengthen thee, to reinforce thy back, to make firm thy loins, to remove thy burden, and to expand thy breast through His successive confirmations from the Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB06685

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs and the manifestations of Thy bounty in the kingdom of creation to ordain for me from Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and benefit me in Thy worlds   BH05520

O my Lord! Illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge, then decree for me, through the wonders of Thy bounty and favors, that which I have desired from the clouds of Thy bestowal and the heaven of Thy mercy.  BH08633

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to enable thee to do that which He loveth and pleaseth, and to ordain for thee that which shall profit thee in this world and the world to come. Verily, He is the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH10944

I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy mercy and the mysteries hidden in Thy Books to assist me in Thy remembrance and in service to Thy Cause and in acting according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.   BH10277

O Lord! Send down upon me from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will open mine eyes, purify my heart, sanctify my soul, and hallow my breast, that I may turn wholly unto Thee and be detached from all else but Thee.  BH07664

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Beauty through which the horizons were illumined, and by Thy Name at which all in the kingdom of creation cried out, that Thou assist him with the confirmations of Thy divine Oneness  BH07120

O God! Fill with dread of Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest the hearts of all who dwell in the kingdoms of the heavens and the earth and what lies between them, that when they hear mention of Him they may stand firm.  BB00003

At midnight supplications and entreaties were offered at the Divine Court. I beseeched great assistance and bounty, that through pure bestowal He may grant such power that you may progress in all spiritual faculties.  AB09215

What thou didst write and the secret thou didst harbor became known and evident. The contents were replete with turning to the Kingdom of the Lord of Signs, and the meanings were supplication at the Divine Threshold.  AB10234

I beseech Thee...to send down upon me from the clouds of Thy generosity that which will preserve me from the mention of any save Thee and draw me nigh unto the pavilion of Thy glory and the tabernacle of Thy majesty.   BH03628

Grant me on that Day an all-encompassing knowledge. Grant me on that Day an intense love. Grant me on that Day an agreeable utterance. Grant me on that Day a pleasing speech. Grant me on that Day a mighty sovereignty.  BB00004

Purge Thou mine ear, O my Lord, that I may hearken unto the verses sent down unto Thee, and illuminate my heart with the light of Thy knowledge, and loose my tongue that it may make mention of Thee and sing Thy praise.  BH08828

O Lord of the Throne on high and of earth below! I beseech Thee by the wrongs suffered by Him Who is the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy signs to aid me in that which Thou lovest and approvest.  BH07970

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having enabled me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy signs, and for having caused me to turn unto Thee when most of Thy servants turned away.  BH07927

O Lord! This is Thy handmaiden who is related to her. Look upon her with the glance of Thy providential eye and assist her through Thy power and might to be devoted to Thee, to supplicate at Thy gate, and to obey Thee   AB02492

I was asleep and the fragrances of the garment of Thy Revelation awakened me, and I was heedless when the warbling of the Bird of Faithfulness, singing upon the branches of the Tree of Thy manifestation, made me aware.   BH02787

I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and the effulgent lights of the Sun of Thy providence, and by the hidden mysteries treasured within Thy Books, to elevate me through Thy Name amongst Thy servants.   BH09378

My God, my God! Thou seest me desiring to make mention of one among Thy servants who hath desired to drink the wine of recognition from the hand of Thy loving-kindness. O Lord! Aid him through Thy bounty and generosity   BH06226

The prayer section beseeches God "by the light of Thy exalted and sublime countenance and the splendor of Thy exalted and mighty presence, that Thou say to what I have desired in the path of Thy love, 'Be!' and it is."   BB00351

I will entreat and implore at the Threshold of Oneness and beseech aid and bounty from the Lord that you may progress at every moment in the degrees of faith and certitude and attain to the highest horizon of knowledge.  AB07686

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the Hour was troubled and the Resurrection was shaken, to make me one of those who move not save by Thy leave and breathe not except by Thy command.   BH01837

I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of the dawn and Subduer of the winds, by the power that hath encompassed earth and heaven, to assist Thy servants to recognize the Manifestation of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy signs.   BH09862

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the pearls of the sea of Thy knowledge to aid all who are on earth to turn unto Thy horizon and to act according to that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book   BH06164

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and by Thy Most Great Name - but for which the mysteries of Thy Book and Thy power and might would not have been revealed, nor would existence have emerged from nothingness  BH03851

O Lord! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name to send down from the clouds of Thy bounty that which will purify me and Thy servants from the doubts of the enemies of Thy Self and from what they have wrought in Thy days.   BH01074

I beseech Thee by the Name through which Thou didst raise up the banner of Thy Cause and plant the emblems of Thy power upon the loftiest spots of Thy earth, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise amongst Thy servants  BH07785

O my Lord! I am he who hath detached himself from all else but Thee and hath turned toward Thy beautiful countenance. Send down upon me from the heaven of Thy bounty that which shall make me independent of all the worlds   BH06437

I beseech Thee by the lights of the Sun of Thy Manifestation and the rustling of the Tree of Thy Mount, to make me in all conditions mindful of Thy verses, detached from all else save Thee, and holding fast unto Thy cord   BH05495

"I beseech Thee by the fragrance of Thy garment, and the station of meeting Thee, and the Kawthar of reunion with Thee, that Thou mayest rend asunder the veils that have come between us and the lights of Thy countenance"   BH04423

Therefore, O my God, I call upon Thee with my tongue and remember Thee with my heart, and I beseech Thee by the Manifestations of the sanctity of Thy eternal sovereignty and the Daysprings of the glory of Thy divine unity  BH02728

O God! O Helper of the longing ones! Assist this servant of Thine to gather what is scattered and to unite what is separated. Transform his many cares into a single care and his many remembrances into a single remembrance  AB05802

that Thou make Thy servant who hath believed in Thee one of the temples of Thy divine unity, and raise him to such a station that he may dwell in the precincts of Thy mercy and rest beneath the shade of Thy loving-kindness  BH10846

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst create all beings...that Thou withhold not from me the wondrous tokens of Thy gifts, nor debar me from the cloud of Thy gracious favor.  BH01878

My request of the friends is that they continually implore at the Divine Threshold with humility and lamentation, and seek confirmation for this servant that I may succeed in servitude to the Beauty of the Ancient of Days.  AB04895

"O my God! my God! Thanks be to Thee for guiding me unto Thy Kingdom, for opening before my face the door of Thy guidance, enlightening my eyes with beholding Thy signs, and filling my heart with the feelings of Thy love."  AB05973

"Cause me to enter through this gate of truth, ordain for me this praiseworthy station, grant me this cup brimming with outpoured water, kindle in the glass of my heart this lamp overflowing with brilliant rays of light."   AB00851

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and the mysteries of Thy Books and by that which lay hidden in the shells of the ocean of Thy power, to assist me in that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book   BH04625

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy verses and Thy clear proofs, and by the rustling of Thy Lote-Tree and Its fruits and leaves and branches, to aid me to perform such deeds as shall diffuse the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure.   BH07488

O Lord! Disappoint not those who have turned toward the gate of Thy grace, and deny them not from drawing nigh unto the court of Thy glory. Then write down for them that which will draw them closer to Thee in all conditions.  BH04322

O Lord! I beseech Thee by the Sovereign of Names, through Whom Thy most exalted horizon was illumined, to deliver them from the promptings of self and passion, and draw them nigh unto Thy Most Great Name, the Most Glorious.   BH03235

O Lord my God! Send down Thy certitude into my heart, for it is more manifest than that I should seek evidence for anything besides it. For hadst Thou not created certitude within me, Thou wouldst not have decreed it for me.  BB00011

O my Lord! Verily, I am humble; elevate me through Thy greatest bounty! I am poor; enrich me by Thine abundant treasury! I am ill; heal me by Thy precious antidote and make me as a sign of Thy favor among Thy maid-servants!   AB02490

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the Kawthar of Thy utterance and the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge, to ordain for me that which shall endure through the potency of Thy Will and the power of Thy Purpose   BH10352

Glory be to Thee, O my God! All praise be to Thee for having caused me to return unto it. I beseech Thee by Thy Name which Thou hast made as a fire unto the deniers and a paradise unto them that have recognized Thy unity  BH08679

I beseech Thee by the stars of the heaven of Thy knowledge and the pearls of the ocean of Thy wisdom to aid me in rending asunder the veils that have hindered me from drawing nigh unto Thee and turning towards Thy direction.   BH07784

"My God, my God! I beseech Thee...to make me detached from all else save Thee, to cling to the hem of Thy bounty, and to hold fast unto the cord of Thy mercy with such firmness as cannot be shaken by the doubts of the world"   BH03089

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having mentioned me in Thy Most Great Prison, and guided me to Thy Most Straight Path, and illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and mine eyes with the light of meeting Thee.  BH01513

O Lord! Make faces radiant, eyes perceiving, hearts throbbing, and tears flowing with Thy love and knowledge in this witnessed Day - the Day of the appearance of the praised station, the emergence of the mystery of existence   AB00365

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the fragrance of Thy mercy was wafted amongst Thy servants and the Divine Lote-Tree spoke forth Thy praise and glorification, to assist me to partake of the pure waters of Thy knowledge  BH09957

My God, my God! Assist Thy loved ones to be steadfast in Thy Cause and in Thy love, and illumine their hearts with the lights of Thy knowledge. Then send down upon them from the clouds of Thy generosity the rain of Thy mercy.   BH06129

My God, my God! Leave me not to myself. Strengthen my limbs for Thy service, and my sight for beholding the lights of Thy countenance, and my ears for hearkening unto Thy call, and my hands for taking hold of Thy mighty Book.   BH05096

I beseech Thee, O Thou the Shaper of all the nations and the Quickener of every moldering bone, to graciously enable Thy servants to recognize Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Revealer of Thy transcendent might  BH04186

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I am Thy servant, who has turned to Thee, detached from all else but Thee. I beseech Thee...to make me one of those whom the attraction of Thy call has so seized that they arose before all faces...   BH03452

make my heart to be a receptacle of Thy love and of remembrance of Thee. Knit it, then, to Thy most great Ocean, that from it may flow out the living waters of Thy wisdom and the crystal streams of Thy glorification and praise   BH08242

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word, which Thou hast made as a light unto them that have drawn nigh and as a fire unto them that have turned away, to make me speak forth Thy praise and call out Thy Name amidst Thy creation.  BH03589

My God, my God! Praise and thanksgiving be unto Thee for having enabled me to turn towards Thee when the men turned away from Thee--they who cast Thy Cause behind their backs and took their vain imaginings as lords besides Thee.  BH11876

Now raise your hands in supplication and prayer to the threshold of the All-Glorious and say: O Lord! Grant us such confirmation that in utter poverty and evanescence we may become successful in serving at Thy Sacred Threshold.  AB03480

O Lord! This is a servant who hath turned toward the Kingdom of Thy oneness and hath been set ablaze and inflamed by the fire of Thy love in the heaven of Thy uniqueness...O Lord! Illumine his insight with the light of guidance  AB03870

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the lamp of Thy utterance hath been lit within the niche of Thy knowledge...to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy service and illumined by the lights of Thy knowledge and Thy love  BH07110

Lord! Strengthen his back in servitude to You, make every difficulty easy for him through Your bounty, facilitate his affairs in Your worship, expand his breast through Your knowledge, cause his tongue to speak Your remembrance   AB00976

O Thou Peerless One and Helper, Self-Subsisting One, Lord of the beginning and the end! Be Thou a shelter for this captive and a helper to this poor one. Deliver me from the prison of nature and guide me to the court of reality.  AB07519

Let the friends beseech God - exalted be His glory - for grace, that perchance the deprived ones of the world may attain their goal, the remote one may enter the ocean of nearness, and the sick may drink from the sea of healing.   BH06920

Glory be unto Thee, O Revealer of verses and Manifestor of clear proofs! I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the mysteries of Thy Book that Thou assist me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with   BH06502

I beseech Thee, O God of all beings and Educator of all created things, by Thy greatest signs and the revelations of Thy most exalted horizon, to strengthen me in that which will cause Thy Cause to be exalted among Thy creatures.   BH03744

O Generous One! Deprive not this poor one from the ocean of Your riches and grant this lowly one a dwelling beneath the shadow of Your mercy, that he may be quickened by the breezes of revelation and attain unto everlasting life.   BH04180

O my God! We are weak servants, unable to thank Thee for Thy bounty and favor, and incapable of fulfilling the servitude due to Thy Holy Threshold. Lord, strengthen our loins for Thy service, make firm our backs for Thy worship...  AB00776

My God, my God! Thou seest me standing in service to Thy Cause, and seated before Thy face, setting down Thy verses, with my hand of hope upraised to the heaven of Thy bounty and my face turned toward the horizon of Thy generosity.  BH09206

My God, my God! Thy knowledge led me unto Thee until I left my home, turning my face toward Thy Sacred House, and traversed land and sea until I entered a valley wherein was raised the call of Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers.   BH06668

I beseech Thee...to inscribe me with Thy Most Exalted Pen in the Crimson Book among those who have aided Thy Cause, who have bowed down before Thy Manifestation, and who have acted according to what they were commanded in Thy Book.  BH06567

Bless me, O my God, and those who will believe in Thy signs on the appointed Day, and such as cherish my love in their hearts -- a love which Thou dost instil into them. Verily Thou art the Lord of righteousness, the Most Exalted.   BB00583

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having created me and sustained me, and made me to know Thy mighty utterance and Thy straight path, and given me to drink from the Kawthar of Thy knowledge through the hands of Thy bounty.   BH09502

I have recognized Thy oneness and Thy singleness. I beseech Thee by the pearls of Thy knowledge and the mysteries of Thy Book to make me among those whom nothing whatsoever hath deterred from turning toward Thy most exalted horizon   BH06882

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink the choice wine of Thy utterance from the hands of Thy bounty, and for having made known unto me that which Thou didst manifest by Thy command and ordain by Thy decree.   BH05459

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy verses revealed at this time and by the station which Thou hast illumined with the light of certitude, to make me steadfast in Thy service, speaking Thy praise and clinging to Thy luminous robe.  BH04938

I take refuge at the threshold of the All-Knowing God and show forth utter lowliness and supplication, that He may make thee independent of all else save Him and make thee the intimate companion and confidant of the holy fragrances.  AB09603

O my God! O my refuge and shelter, my origin and return, my haven and protection, the companion of my heart in my loneliness, the tranquility of my soul in my bewilderment, my solace in my solitude, and my comfort in my tribulation!  AB02025

I entreat Thee... to rend asunder the veils that have shut off Thy creatures from the horizon of Thy glory, that haply they may turn their faces in the direction of Thy mercy, and draw nigh unto the Day-Spring of Thy loving-kindness.  BH07688

O my Lord! I testify to Thy unity and Thy oneness, and that Thou art God, there is none other God but Thee, the Mighty, the Powerful. I beseech Thee to assist me in that which beseemeth Thy days and befitteth the court of Thy glory.   BH06853

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee, placing my trust in Thee, acting according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book, and hoping for what Thy Most Exalted Pen hath ordained for Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones.  BH02409

Then write down for me what is best for me. I know not what is within Thy Self, and Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Encompassing. O my Lord! Ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and decreed for Thy loved ones.   BH02147

Thou art He Who, O my God, removed the veil from my face and made me know the dawning-place of Thy revelation and the treasury of the pearls of Thy knowledge, and guided me to the horizon from which shone forth the Sun of Thy beauty   BH01780

I beseech Thee to ordain for me the good of the hereafter and the present world, and that which Thou hast written for Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones through whom the heaven hath rained and the earth hath brought forth its fruits.   BH02158

"O God of the world and desire of the nations! I beseech Thee by the Name through which the sincere ones have soared, and the near ones have drawn nigh, and the faithful have spoken, to aid me to know Thee and to arise to serve Thee."  BH09476

O my God! Thou art my shelter and the sanctuary of my hopes and the ultimate goal of my desire and the end of my aspiration. I beseech the kingdom of Thy mercy to assist this servant in that which Thou lovest and art well-pleased with  AB09143

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee...that Thou sever me from whatsoever can be called a thing, and cause me to stand firm in exalting Thy Word and raising the standards of Thy remembrance and knowledge amongst Thy creatures.   BH07745

Ask God that you may become a dawning-place of guidance, a manifestation of the supreme gift, and a cause for the wafting of the fragrance of the love of God, so that divine life and spiritual grace may become evident in all conditions  AB03944

O my Lord! Thou seest the ignorant seeking the ocean of Thy knowledge, the remote one the court of Thy nearness, and the seeker the Dayspring of Thy Manifestation. I beseech Thee to assist me in that which will guide people to Thy path   BH03597

I beseech Thee, O Creator of the heavens and Lord of the Kingdom of Names, by Thy Most Glorious Name through which flesh hath crept and souls have been perturbed, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love.  BH01856

I beseech Thee by this Name which hath been encompassed by tribulations through what was ordained in the tablets of Thy decree, that Thou send down upon Thy servants that which shall open their eyes, that they may know Thee from all else  BH10333

Praise be to Thee, O Lord of the world, and thanksgiving be unto Thee, O Beloved of the nations, for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and adorned my temple with the ornament of turning unto Thee in Thy days.  BH02652

We beseech God that He may sanctify all those who are related, both male and female, from whatsoever is unseemly, and confirm them in that which shall cause the exaltation and elevation of the Word. Verily, He is powerful over all things.  BH04424

O my Lord! Having caused me to recognize the ocean of Thy presence through Thy grace and Thy Manifestation through Thy loving-kindness, I beseech Thee not to deprive me of the hidden things of Thy mercy and the evidences of Thy bounties.   BH07966

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and by the Point through which Thou didst distinguish Thy books, to make me rich through Thy riches and speaking forth Thy command and steadfast in Thy love and standing firm in Thy service   BH07089

O my God! I beseech Thee by the light of Thy knowledge whereby the hearts of Thy servants were illumined...to make me in all conditions to hold fast to the cord of Thy bounty and to abide beneath the shade of the pavilions of Thy grandeur.  BH07656

I beseech You by Your love for them and their love for You to strengthen this servant through the invisible confirmations of Your eternity, immortalize him in the gardens of Your holy presence, and admit him to the paradise of Your oneness  BH04953

O my God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having enabled me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation, the Dayspring of Thy signs, the Source of Thy Command, the Treasury of the pearls of Thy wisdom and the Heaven of Thy knowledge.   BH04794

My God, my God! These are servants who have turned to the Kingdom of Thy mercy, supplicated to the Realm of Thy oneness, and beseeched Thy presence of unity to make them firm in Thy Cause and assist them to be steadfast in Thy remembrance.  AB07177

My God, my God! Thou seest me with eyes overflowing with tears and heart burning with sighs, moaning with regret, plunging in the depths of intoxication due to my deprivation from beholding Thy beauty and my separation from Thy holy court.  AB03601

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having made mention of me and sent down for me that which caused the lovers to soar throughout all regions when the Herald proclaimed: 'He Who was hidden in the eternity of eternities hath appeared!'"   BH03056

O my God! These are Thy servants who have taken shelter beneath the tree of Thy oneness and sought refuge in the sanctuary of Thy divine dominion. O Lord! Aid them to win Thy good pleasure and attract them through Thy sweet-scented breaths.  AB11325

I beseech Thee by the Name through which the tribes were shaken and earthquakes appeared, through which the heaven was cleft asunder and the mountains were moved, to ordain for me that which Thou lovest and with which Thou art well-pleased.   BH08372

"Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Him Who conversed upon Sinai, Who hath seated Himself upon the throne of Revelation, and by the Call that hath been raised from the Blessed Tree, to open before my face the door of Thy mercy"   BH04887

When the attraction of My choice wine takes hold of you and My call draws you, say: "My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having remembered me, and thanks be to Thee for having strengthened me, and glory be to Thee for having guided me..."   BH04035

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having made manifest Thy path among Thy servants and for having called the people to the Dayspring of Thy revelation, the Dawning-Place of Thine inspiration, and the Source of Thy commandments and laws.   BH02527

The purport of the study of the Persian tongue is this: That thou mayest memorize a commune in the Persian and at the time of communion and supplication, when present in the meeting of the maid-servants of the Merciful, thou mayest chant it.  AB02398

...make me of those who have been so captured by the choice wine of Thy revelation and inspiration that nothing whatsoever hath deterred them from drawing nigh unto Thy most exalted horizon and turning toward the lights of Thy countenance...   BH03388

O God! Make known to all Thy creation the sweetness of knowing Thee and the joy of what hath been sent down from Thee of the signs of Thy power, the manifestations of Thy might, the evidences of Thy oneness, and the tokens of Thy singleness.   BB00218

O my God! Thou seest me humbled at the gate of Thy oneness, clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy singleness. I beseech Thee to make the sign of Thy unity firmly established in the heart of Thy servant who hath turned toward Thy loved ones.   AB02319

Therefore I supplicated at the Threshold of Oneness and besought for you a heavenly gift and sought an everlasting blessing, that you might be encompassed by divine favors and bounties and become the object of the gaze of His Holiness the One.  AB08185

O Lord! Make him a fragrance from the gardens of Thy oneness, and a breeze from the direction of Thy grace, and a tree from the groves of Thy bounty, and a bird from the gardens of Thy mercy, and a flower from the bower of Thy loving-kindness   AB03538

O Lord! Kindle the fire of Thy love in their limbs, and illumine the lamp of Thy knowledge in their souls and allow them to drink of the flowing waters streaming from the fountainhead of Thy bounty and pouring from the clouds of Thy bestowals   AB03032

Aid them to exalt Thy supreme Word and spread Thy signs throughout all regions and diffuse Thy fragrances in all quarters and cause Thy lights to shine from the highest horizon, that all peoples and tribes may turn to Thy most exalted Kingdom   AB03074

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the outpourings of Thy days, and the showers of Thy mercy, and the manifestations of Thy power, to ordain for me the good of this world and the next, and that which will draw me nigh unto Thee in all conditions  BH06937

My God, my God! I am the one who has turned to Thee and placed my trust in Thee. I beseech Thee by the trees of the gardens of inner meanings and utterance, and the leaves of realities and exposition, to ordain for me that which will profit me.   BH01668

O Kind Lord! Be the helper of these captives of the chain of Thy love, and be their refuge, shelter and protector. Send the holy fragrances from the rose garden of bounty and make the arena of hearts a garden of bestowal and a meadow of reality.  AB07372

O my Lord! Thanks be unto Thee for Thy greatest guidance and Thy greatest favor, which Thou hast assigned unto me and unto Thy worshipping maid-servants, whom Thou hast chosen to enter Thine exalted Kingdom and abide in Thy Paradise of El-ABHA.   AB04223

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy utterance and the mysteries of Thy Book and the lights of Thy Manifestation, to make me one of those who have attained unto Thy presence and have drunk the choice wine of recognition from the hand of Thy bounty.  BH10738

I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the manifestations of the Sun of Thy Revelation to make me one of those who have cast away vain imaginings and taken hold of that which hath come down from the heaven of Thy knowledge.  BH09512

The plants that have sprung forth, O my Lord, in the hearts of Thy loved ones have withered away. Send down upon them, from the clouds of Thy spirit, that which will cause the tender herbs of Thy knowledge and wisdom to grow within their breasts.  BH07678

I beseech Thee by the Most Exalted Word whereby Thou hast subdued earth and heaven, and by the effulgent rays of the Daystar of Thy Revelation from the Sinai horizon, to make me speak forth Thy praise and glorification and hold fast to Thy cord.   BH05567

O Lord! Thou seest me attracted by the fragrances of Thy Revelation and clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me from the heaven of Thy grace and the clouds of Thy mercy, nor from the ocean of Thy bounty.  BH01664

Illumine the heart of this Thine servant with the light of Assurance, make firm his feet in the straight Path and Manifest Road and suffer him to drink from the Clear Spring and the Water of Tasneem. Verily, Thou art the Clement and the Merciful!  AB09723

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the horizon of Revelation hath shone forth and that which was inscribed on an outstretched parchment hath appeared, to cause me to know the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy clear tokens.  BH09510

Illumine, O Lord, the faces of Thy servants, that they may behold Thee; and cleanse their hearts that they may turn unto the court of Thy heavenly favors, and recognize Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Day-Spring of Thine Essence.   BH09401

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy remembrance through which Thou hast quickened all created things and caused all faces to shine, that Thou disappoint me not of what lieth with Thee and admit me, through Thy mercy, beneath Thy extended shadow.  BH07297

"O my Lord, the All-Powerful! I beseech Thee by the power that hath encompassed all beings and the might that hath surrounded all created things, to disappoint me not from the manifestations of Thy grace and the evidences of Thy loving-kindness."   BH04256

O Lord! Send upon them in every moment the fragrances from the gardens of Thy unity and revive them in every instant with the breezes from the meadows of Thy oneness. Shower upon them the lights of Thy confirmation from Thy most glorious Kingdom.   AB12174

Then write down for whosoever hath desired the stream of Thy presence and service to Thy Cause that which will draw him nigh unto Thee, and make him content with whatsoever Thou hast ordained for him through Thy firm command and irrevocable decree.  BH10153

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name, through which the daysprings of self and passion were shaken, to aid me to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee amongst Thy servants, and to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy near ones.  BH07289

O Lord! Thou seest him who is as nothingness seeking the ocean of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee to number him among those for whom Thou hast ordained a station beneath the canopies of Thy grandeur and the pavilion of Thy glory and Thy loving-kindness.  BH00242

O Lord! Make them signs of guidance and standards of the Concourse on High and lamps of piety and waves of the ocean of faithfulness and fish in the pools of eternity and birds in the gardens of glory and lions in the thickets of love and loyalty.   AB00888

With my heart ablaze with the fire of Thy love, My breast inspired by the remembrance of Thy beauty and gladdened by the signs of Thy knowledge, I call upon Thee to enable this Thy servant to enjoy at all times the fulfilment of his greatest hopes.  AB01448

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Command which Thou hast made the key to the gates of Thy mercy and grace, and by the dawning manifestations of the Sun of Thy bounty in Thy days, to aid me in that which will draw me and Thy servants nigh unto Thee.   BH05868

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having given me to drink the Kawthar of Thy utterance from the hand of Thy bounty, and for having made known to me Thy path and guided me to Thy gate which Thou hast opened to all in Thy earth and Thy heaven.   BH03238

I beseech God that through the bounty of the Most Great One and the grace and mercy of the Supreme Concourse, the garden of hearts may be so adorned as to become the envy of the most verdant garden and the object of jealousy of the Paradise of Abha.  AB08699

protect us, watch over us. Keep us safe and secure and make us happy in both this world and the word to come. By Thy bounty and Thy grace, bestow true felicity upon us. Thou art the Mighty and Powerful. Thou art the Giver, the Forgiver and the Seer.  AB06468

Transform this darkness of hearts into the light of guidance, and change these carnal desires into the spirit of piety, that we may soar in the life-giving atmosphere of detachment and become intimate with the remembrance of Thy face and attributes.  AB01062

I ask Thee, by the glory of Thy Cause and the power of Thy Word, graciously to assist them that have arisen to discharge what hath been enjoined upon them in Thy Book, and to perform that whereby the fragrance of Thine acceptance may be shed abroad.   BH09404

O my Lord! I beseech Thee to aid me under all conditions to serve Thy Cause, to witness Thy signs, to recite Thy verses unto Thy servants and to manifest Thy proofs unto Thy creatures. Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Compassionate, the Forgiving.   BH01020

O God, Thou knowest and art my witness that I have no desire in my heart save to attain Thy good pleasure, to be confirmed in servitude unto Thee, to consecrate myself in Thy service, to labour in Thy great vineyard and to sacrifice all in Thy path.   AB05167

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy mercy and Thy grace and the tenderness that hath preceded existence to make me in all conditions one who uttereth Thy mention, who gazeth toward Thy horizon, who moveth by Thy will, and who standeth firm in Thy service.  BH08198

I beseech God that ye may all be safe and secure beneath the shadow of His protection, that ye may always be aware of His remembrance, may supplicate, implore and beseech Him so that your peace of soul and tranquillity of conscience might be attained.  AB05760

"O my Ancient Beloved and my Heart's Delight! How long shall I remain captive to deprivation and afflicted by separation? Show me the way to the retreat of the Kingdom and make me the object of the eye of favor in the sanctuary of the Realm of Might."  AB11974

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having caused me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy clear proofs, and for having guided me unto Him Whose advent Thou didst herald in Thy Books, Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets.   BH08227

I beseech Thee by the hearts that have been illumined by the light of Thy knowledge, and by the faces that have turned toward the splendors of Thy countenance, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of this world and the world to come.   BH07342

Graciously assist me, O my God, in the days of the Manifestation of Thy Cause and of the Day-Spring of Thy Revelation, to tear asunder the veils which have hindered me from recognizing Thee, and from immersing myself beneath the ocean of Thy knowledge.  BH04744

I testify that Thou didst aid me and enable me to attain unto the presence before the gate of Thy bounty and to hear Thy sweetest call and to witness the effulgences of the lights of Thy most exalted Throne, whereby the earth and heaven were illumined.  BH00872

O Lord! Thou seest the poor one hastening to the ocean of Thy riches, and the sorrowful one to the heaven of Thy grace. I beseech Thee to rain down upon Thy servant from the clouds of Thy mercy that which shall solace his eyes and tranquilize his soul.  BH07262

O Lord! O Forgiver! You are the shelter of these servants. You are the Knower of secrets and the All-Aware. We are all helpless, and You are the Mighty and Powerful. We are all sinners, and You are the Forgiver of sins, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB07056

As much as you are able, occupy yourselves with the fragrance of truth and supplicate and implore at the Court of Unity, that the morals of the Luminous Dawn may cast their rays upon hearts and that spiritual inspirations may appear in human realities.  AB03514

O Thou Powerful, Ancient One! We are all captives in the grasp of Thy might. Thou art our Protector, Thou art our Sustainer. Grant us Thy grace, bestow upon us Thy bounty, open wide the gates of favor and cast upon us the glance of Thy loving-kindness.  AB02984

My God, my God! Aid me in Thy days to truly witness and hearken, lest the idle fancies and vain imaginings of the people hold me back from drawing nigh unto the gate of Thy mercy, which Thou hast opened unto all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH04417

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having made known unto me Thy path, sent down unto me Thy verses, shown forth unto me Thy proofs, given me to drink from the cup of Thy knowledge, guided me to Thy announcement and caused me to speak forth Thy praise.   BH04139

Then send down upon him at all times goodness from Thee and a blessing from Thy presence. Illumine his face, O my God, with the lights of Thy countenance, and make him one who remembers Thee amongst Thy creatures and extols Thy Being amidst Thy creation.   BH08266

I beseech Thee by Thy Name which dominates all names, and by the Most Great Word through which Thou hast subdued all things...to assist Thy servant who hath turned toward Thee, who hath remained steadfast in his love for Thee and gazed toward Thy horizon.  BH08236

I beseech Thee by Thy Might which hath encompassed the entire creation and taken possession of all beings, to pour from the heaven of Thy bounty and the clouds of Thy grace what will lift Thy friends to the station wherein the Tongue of Thy Majesty speaks  BH08089

I beseech Thee by the Light that has shone forth and appeared, and by the fragrance of Thy garment that has been diffused and spread abroad, to make me one who gazes upon Thy Cause, who speaks Thy praise, and who holds fast to the cord of Thy loving care.  BH04728

I supplicate God to enable him and every one else to serve Him in the garden of El-ABHA and to help thee to be gentle, humble and submissive; to reveal Himself upon thee with the attributes of the Merciful and to grant thee a heavenly table at all times.   AB05958

we were always thinking of you and engaged in prayer that "O God! Make His Honor Afnan a candle for the gathering and make him like the morning star so that he may become the cause of awareness for every unaware one and awakening for every heedless one."   AB05465

O my God and my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Subduing above all names, and by the Ark that hath sailed upon the sea through Thy Most Great and Most Glorious Name, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise and in the service of Thy Cause.  BH09474

"Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I testify to Thy manifestation and Thy dawning and Thy establishment upon the throne of utterance before the faces of all religions, and to Thy oneness and Thy singleness and Thy greatness and Thy power and Thy sovereignty."   BH06720

O my God, my God! This is Your servant who implores Your kingdom, who is clothed in Your love, whose forehead is pressed against the dust of Your holy threshold. Open unto him the doors of understanding through the outpouring of the clouds of Your oneness.  AB06559

My God, my God! Thou beholdest me speaking forth Thy praise, seeking refuge in Thy presence, and hastening to the door of Thy mercy. I beseech Thee to ordain for me from Thy Pen that which will preserve me from all else save Thee and draw me nigh unto Thee.  BH04802

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy straight path, and mention of me in Thy Most Great Prison before the faces of the world, and glory be to Thee for having revealed unto me what Thou hadst concealed from most of Thy creation."   BH01765

My God, my God! Praise and thanksgiving be unto Thee for having guided one among Thy handmaidens to the Dayspring of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy grace, and for having given her to drink of the Kawthar of Thy knowledge from the hand of Thy bounty.  BH11217

Know ye the value of this station, and at times, with utmost supplication, visit the illumined grave of Shamsu'l-Vuzara on behalf of Abdu'l-Baha and light a few candles at that pure tomb, for this act is a cause of nearness to the threshold of the Almighty.  AB11206

Glory be to Thee, O my God! Praise be to Thee for having caused me to soar on the wings of longing in the atmosphere of Thy knowledge, and adorned me with the ornament of certitude in Thy days, and illumined my heart with the light of Thy manifestation.  BH05276

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst warble upon the branches of the Tree of Thy Lordship, to send down upon me of every good its completion, of every grace its perfection, and of every remembrance its greatest  BH02682

I beseech Thee by Thy Self to make known unto the servants the Manifestation of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy verses, that they might find in His every condition the sweet savors of Thy knowledge and the fragrant breezes of the garment of Thy mercy.  BH01527

O my God, my God! I bear witness to Thy oneness and Thy singleness, and to Thy might, Thy majesty and Thy sovereignty. I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned to Thee, detached from all else save Thee, hoping for the wonders of Thy bounty.  BH01362

'Abdu'l-Baha offers prayer night and day at the threshold of the Self-Sufficient and seeks progress and soaring for the friends, so that the means of earthly and heavenly dominion may be gathered together and the outpourings of the divine realm be bestowed.   AB01347

Make my mornings and evenings, my dawns and dusks, confined to devotion toward Thy most glorious horizon, that I may breathe the breath of morning, with tongue outstretched in radiance through the darkest night, and call upon Thee in the depths of darkness.   AB03041

Send down, therefore, O my God, upon all that seek Thee that which will entirely strip them of all that pertaineth not unto Thee, and will draw them nigh unto Thy Self. Assist them, by Thy grace, to love Thee and to conform unto that which shall please Thee.   BH05517

Praise be unto Thee, O Lord of the Kingdom of Names, for having illumined the heart of Thy handmaiden with the light of Thy knowledge and for having sent down unto her that which hath drawn her nigh unto the court of Thy glory and the carpet of Thy holiness.   BH04805

Send down upon us Thy strength and power, that we may become steadfast in Thy Faith and may aid Thee among Thy servants. Illumine our eyes, O my Lord, with the effulgence of Thy beauty, and enlighten our hearts with the splendors of Thy knowledge and wisdom.   BH02617

Peace shining from the horizon of the Abode of Peace be upon you and upon those with you and upon those who took the cup of conjecture and cast it behind them, then took again the cup of certitude and drank therefrom in the name of God, the Mighty, the Wise.   BH02314

Thou shouldst strive to abide and persevere in the station of supplication, prayer, entreaty, and utter weakness and tearfully beseech Him, perchance the beaming light of strength radiating from the Sun of Truth may reflect forth from the mirror of thy heart.  AB09508

O Lord! Plant this tender seedling in the garden of Thy manifold bounties, water it from the fountains of Thy loving-kindness and grant that it may grow into a goodly plant through the outpourings of Thy favour and grace. Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful.  AB04475

O my God, my God! This is a handmaiden who has associated herself with Him Whom Thou hast loved and Who hath loved Thee. O Lord! Make her a sign of Thy bounty among Thy handmaidens and a light of Thy knowledge among the assured ones who are firm in Thy Cause   AB05524

O my God! I beseech Thee by the scratching of Thy Most Exalted Pen and the Call that hath been raised from the Divine Lote Tree to grant me at all times the heavenly sustenance which hath been sent down from the heaven of Thy Will and the clouds of Thy Purpose  BH09949

My God, my God! This is Thy servant who has passed his days wandering in the wilderness of longing, running through the desert of separation, thirsting for the spring of reunion, yearning for the sweet waters from the Kawthar and Salsabil on the Day of Meeting  AB00786

I beseech Thee by the Throne whereon Thou art established, and by the lands which were honored by Thy footsteps, and by the Book which none hath understood save Thee, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise and in serving those who love Thee and desire Thee.  BH05950

O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having caused me to hear Thy call and summoned me to the Manifestation of Thy Self and enabled me to enter the sanctuary of Thy reunion and the sacred precincts of Thy presence, and made me one of those who have attained.   BH02120

O Lord! Thou seest the weary one making for the kingdom of Thy utterance and seeking Thy bountiful grace and Thy mighty favor. Ordain for him that which beseemeth Thy greatness and Thy sovereignty. There is none other God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH00840

By Thy might, I seek refuge with Thee in this life from that fire, for whoso entereth therein entereth after his death. And I beseech Thee for that paradise, for whoso entereth into the love of Thy Proof and His recognition shall enter therein after his death.   BB00271

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy grace and the sun of Thy bounty to make me one of those whom Thou hast aided to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee and to champion Thy Cause through wisdom and utterance  BH05941

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the rain of Thy mercy was showered upon Thy servants and the Sun of might shone forth in Thy domains, to assist Thy loved ones to remember Thee and praise Thee and to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.   BH02453

O my Lord! Confirm this revered personage, that he may attain the Essential Purpose; travel in these Seven Valleys; enter the silent chamber of realities and significances, and enter the Kingdom of Mysteries. Verily, Thou art the Confirmer, the Helper, the Kind.  AB11288

O my God and the God of all who are in the heavens and on earth, my Lord and the Lord of all who are in the kingdom of command and truth! Thou knowest and seest how Thy verses have attracted me and how the wine of the Kawthar of Thy knowledge hath intoxicated me.  BH07789

O my God, my God! Why didst Thou create eyes for Thy servants and bestow upon them insight through Thy grace? If Thou hast given them to behold Thy beauty and gaze upon the lights of Thy countenance, then remove the veils therefrom through Thy bounty and favors.   BH07216

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name, through which, when it appeared, all things spoke and the breezes of grace wafted over all who dwell in the kingdom of creation, to ordain for me that which shall profit me and remain with me in my world and my afterlife.  BH05319

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Celestial Dominion and the mysteries of Thy Divine Kingdom and by the waves of the ocean of Thine utterance to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and guide me to the straight path.  BH03213

O my God, my Lord and my Support! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and by the manifestations of the Exponents of Thy Cause to enable me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy verses, the Dayspring of Thy revelation and the Manifestation of Thy Self.   BH10424

O my God, when this servant turned toward the fields of Thy mercy and the sanctuary of Thy Being, purify his breast from idle fancies and vain imaginings that he may be enabled to enter the dawning-place of the Cause in the Ka'bah of Beauty and the City of Majesty  BH09916

O my God, and my Master, and my Friend, and the Beloved of my soul and my spirit! How can I ever render thanks unto Thee? I was submerged in the ocean of heedlessness and ignorance when the tongue of Thy grace called out to me and the hand of Thy bounty seized me.  BH02153

Turn thou thy face towards the Kingdom of Abha at all times and seek help from His grace so that thou mayest succeed in achieving both these gifts. Beg of the Lord of Oneness that thy highest hopes may be realised and that thou mayest acquire both these bounties.   AB05567

O God! These are servants who are related to Thy Beauty and whom Thou hast taken under the shadow of the wing of the Phoenix of the Orient of Thy Oneness. Aid them in all affairs and conditions to progress gradually in the paths of knowledge, virtue and perfection  AB03707

I beseech Thee by that Name through which Thou didst reveal Thyself unto Moses on Sinai and unto the Spirit in the wilderness of Appearance, to send down upon me and upon Thy loved ones that which beseemeth the cloud of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy generosity.   BH09517

O Lord! Thou seest me attracted by Thy verses, detached from all else but Thee, and clinging to the cord of Thy loving care. I beseech Thee by all that befitteth the heaven of Thy bounty, the ocean of Thy grace, and the sun of Thy generosity, not to disappoint me.   BH02826

Then ordain, O my God, for him and those with him, to attain Thy presence and to stand before Thee in the visible realm, and deprive him not of that which is with Thee... Then open before the face of him who desireth Thee the gates of Thy mercy and loving-kindness   BH01491

I beseech Thee by Thy Self, the Sovereign over all things, that Thou deprive me not of Thy knowledge. Then assist me in all conditions to serve the Wronged One Who is imprisoned in the hands of the oppressors among Thy creation and the heedless among Thy servants.   BH01390

O Lord! Aid them with a new spirit and illumine their eyes with the witnessing of signs in the dark night and ordain for them every good in the Kingdom of mysteries and make them brilliant stars and trees laden with fruit and branches swaying in the morning breezes  AB02024

I beseech God to send down upon you both a blessing from heaven and to raise up through you servants who will spread holy fragrances and keep alive your remembrance and make for you an exalted tongue of truth and who will abundantly praise and sanctify their Lord.   AB03703

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me unto the ocean of Thy grace, and caused me to hear Thy most sweet call from Thy most exalted horizon, and shown me the traces of Thy Pen, and manifested unto me what was hidden in Thy knowledge.   BH03042

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward the lights of Thy countenance and clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by that which is in Thy knowledge and ordained in Thy mighty Book to strengthen me in steadfastness unto this manifest Cause.   BH00974

Praise be to thee, O God my Lord; I ask of Thee, by Thy prophets, Thy chosen and Thy redeemers, to send down upon me, from the heaven of Thy Bounty, Thy special Providence and Thy particular Mercy; and open, before my face, the doors of Thy gifts and blessings.  BH08625

Blessed is the heart that has turned, and the face that has been directed, and the eye that has seen, and the ear that has heard when the Call was raised from the Ultimate Tree that there is none other God but Him, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH04470

My God, my God! My sight seeketh Thy vision, my hearing the listening to Thy call, my heart turning toward Thee, and my soul sacrifice in Thy path. Make this handmaiden detached from all else save Thee, and occupy her with Thy mention, praise, love and nearness.  BH02651

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to aid thee and confirm thee in that which He loveth and is pleased with, and to ordain for thee that which will gladden thee and exalt thee in all His worlds, whereby thine eyes and the eyes of His loved ones may be solaced.  BH10458

I beseech Thee...to rain down upon this people from the clouds of Thy mercy and the heavens of Thy grace the showers of Thy bounty and favors, that Thou mayest cleanse them from whatsoever preventeth them from the wondrous tokens of Thy loving-kindness and bestowals.   BH11089

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the world and illuminate the hearts of the nations, to make me in all conditions to hold fast unto Thee, to speak forth Thy praise, to turn toward Thy horizon, and to arise to serve Thy Cause.   BH05261

I beseech Thy Most Glorious Horizon, imploring, hoping and supplicating that Thou wouldst cause this Thy servant to be numbered among those servants whom Thou hast made dawning-places of the lights of Thy greatest signs in the manifestation of Thy Most Glorious Beauty  AB11051

Glory be to Thee, O my God, my Lord, my Support and my Hope! I testify that Thou hast ever been in the heights of power, might and majesty, and in the summits of strength, grandeur and authority, and wilt ever continue to be as Thou hast been from time immemorial.  BH06154

I beseech Thee by the oceans of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy favor, and by Thy Cause through which Thou hast guided the sincere ones to the ocean of Thy recognition and the unitarians to the sun of Thy bounty, that Thou aid Thy servants to remember and praise Thee.   BH02216

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name and Thy sovereignty and the power that has encompassed those in Thy earth and heaven, to make me in all conditions one who gazes upon Thy Throne whereon is established the Temple of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation.  BH05435

O God of the worlds and Sovereign of the nations! I beseech Thee by the rustling of the Tree of Thy loving-kindness and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge, that Thou mayest ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will profit me in all Thy worlds.   BH04138

Verily Thy servant who has turned toward Thee, who has sought the gate of Thy forgiveness, has ever lived thirsting for the cup of meeting Thee, yearning to gaze upon Thy beauty, stirred by Thy sweet fragrances, longing to hear Thy voice, hoping to attain Thy threshold.  AB05418

O my God! Thou seest me having left my home and migrated in Thy path until I attained unto Thy presence. I beseech Thee by the light of Thy countenance and the fire of the Tree of Thy Command to ordain for me that which shall profit me in every world of Thy worlds.   BH05913

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast made it to rule over all things, that Thou ordain for Thy servants and creatures that which will lead them to the shade of the Tree of Thy Oneness and cause them to hear the cooing of the Dove of Thy transcendent Unity.   BH05399

O my God! O my God! Glory be unto Thee for that Thou hast confirmed me to the confession of Thy Oneness, attracted me unto the word of Thy singleness, enkindled me by the fire of Thy love, and occupied me with Thy mention and the service of Thy friends and maid-servants.  AB07709

O Lord! Make Thy servant a manifest sign and a renowned banner. Make him a brilliant star and a radiant orb. Make him a remedy for every ill and a healing balm for every wound. Make him a bright candle in every gathering and a sweet-singing nightingale in every assembly.  AB09712

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Baha at its most splendid and all Thy Baha is splendid, to assist me and Thy loved ones to draw nigh unto Thee, to turn towards the horizon of Thy Manifestation, to hold fast to Thy firm cord, and to cling to the hem of Thy luminous mercy.   BH10970

I beseech Thee by it, as I know it hath appeared from Thy Most Exalted Word, that Thou wilt not withhold me for less than the twinkling of an eye from the knowledge of Thyself and the wondrous manifestations of the glory of Thy Lordship and the signs of Thy Divine Unity.   BH06580

I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the luminary of the heaven of Thy wisdom to make me in all conditions detached from all else save Thee, gazing toward Thy direction, holding fast to the cord of Thy favor and clinging to the hem of Thy mercy.   BH04790

I beseech Thee by Thy Pen through which Thou didst give life to all worlds, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst create the heavens and the earths, to aid those who have turned unto Thee and have entered the stronghold of Thy Cause, detached from all who dwell on earth  BH10579

O my God! This is Thy servant who hath striven with his spirit, his heart, his inner being and his body, until he reached the shore of Thy Most Great Ocean and drank from the pure, flowing waters of reunion at the dawning of the brilliant rays from the Sun of Thy oneness.   BH09204

O Creator of the heavens! I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs, and the manifestations of Thy sovereignty among all beings, and by Thy radiant and manifest light, and Thy firm and unshakeable Cause, to aid me to be steadfast in Thy Cause and to arise in Thy service.  BH03258

O God, my God! Thou seest how Thy servant hath set his face towards Thee and desired to be honoured by performing that whereunto he hath been bidden in Thy Book. Do Thou ordain for him through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which shall draw him nigh unto the Most Sublime Summit.  BH10506

O my God, my Beloved, and He Who is mentioned in my heart! I beseech Thee by the Name which Thou hast made a lamp unto Thy servants, a herald unto those near unto Thee, and a sun in the heaven of Thy knowledge, that Thou aid me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with  BH05121

I perceive the fragrance of Thy Manifestation, yet know not which spot hath been honored by Thy footsteps, which place hath been blessed by the lights of Thy countenance, which city hath been raised up by Thy call and wherein the throne of Thy majesty hath been established.  BH04306

O Lord! Deprive me not from gazing toward the horizon of Thy oneness, then number me among such as have taken no partner unto Thee in Thy dominion and have testified that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee, the One, the Single, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Loving.  BH11800

I beseech God to illumine thy face in His most glorious Kingdom, and to gladden thy breast through the fragrances from the gardens of His most exalted Dominion, and to brighten thine eyes through beholding His greatest signs, and to make firm thy feet upon the straight path  AB12321

O God of Hosts and Sovereign of the seen and unseen! I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Place of Thy wisdom and the Manifestation of Thy signs to ordain for me that which will benefit me in this world and the next, and make me steadfast in Thy love amidst all created things.  BH08096

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the Word whereby Thou hast guided the sincere ones to Thy straight path, illumined their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge and adorned their heads with the crown of Thy unity, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.  BH05600

O Lord! Thou seest me calling out in Thy name amongst Thy servants, and speaking Thy praise throughout Thy lands. From the beginning of days I acknowledged Thy unity and Thy singleness, and became attracted to Thy verses, soaring in Thy atmosphere, and arising to serve Thee.  BH11130

O my God! Illumine the face of Thy servant with a brilliant ray from the morn of Thy oneness and a resplendent light from the Sun of Thy reality. Make him a sign of Thy confirmations, a standard of Thy sustaining grace, a token of Thy mercy and a manifestation of Thy bounty.  AB09763

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs and by the power of Thy Command, O Lord of all beings, to ordain for this handmaiden of Thine what Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who have turned unto Thee, hearkened to Thy call, and circled round Thy throne by night and by day.  BH06025

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, my Lord, and my Support, for having called me unto Thyself and given me to drink the cup of Thy presence from the hand of Thy bounty, and made me turn toward Thy most exalted horizon when the learned ones of all the earth turned away therefrom.   BH00945

I beseech Thee, O Thou around Whom circle the Concourse on High, to assist them in all conditions even as Thou didst assist them before, that there might appear from them at all times that which ascendeth unto Thee and which is perfumed with the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure.   BH05410

O my God! I am he who has held fast to the cord of Thy bounty and clung to the hem of Thy favors, who has acknowledged Thy singleness and confessed Thy oneness, and who has become certain that Thou art the Lord of existence and the Bestower of both the unseen and the seen.  BH10342

Glory be unto Thee, O my God and the God of the world! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy utterance and the mysteries that were hidden in the hearts of Thy chosen ones to aid Thy servants to act with justice and equity and to that which guideth unto the path of righteousness.   BH00589

O my God and my Lord! These are servants who have sought refuge at the gate of Thy oneness and have been illumined by the fire of Thy love, kindled in the Tree of Sinai of Thy guidance, and have been enlightened by the light of Thy knowledge shining from the dawn of Thy bounty.  AB11126

This is Thy servant who hath turned toward the realms of the sanctity of Thy divinity, and desired to enter the sanctuary of Thy Being and to gain admittance to the house of Thy oneness, that he might witness the subtleties of Thy beauty in the manifestations of Thine identity.   BH10619

I beseech Thee by the splendors of the morn of Thy Revelation and by the Call that was raised from the Tree of Thy Mount, that Thou aid him who hath turned toward Thee and desired to adorn himself through acting in accordance with that which Thou hast commanded him in Thy Book.   BH06660

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the fire of the Tree which shone forth in the Mount of Knowledge upon the Son of Imran, to strengthen me in such wise that through my speech Thou mayest open the doors of the ears of the world to hearken unto Thy call, O Lord of all nations.  BH10065

Tear asunder with the hand of Thy transcendent power, O my Lord, the veil of vain imaginings, that they who are wholly devoted to Thee may see Thee seated on the throne of Thy majesty, and the eyes of such as adore Thy unity may rejoice at the splendors of the glory of Thy face.   BH06576

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Name through which the rivers of hearts have been connected with the Most Great Ocean which surgeth before Thy face, to accept their turning unto the Kaaba of Thy presence and their orientation toward that Spot wherein Thy countenance hath shone.  BH04747

Therefore, in gratitude for this mighty grace and tremendous favor, open your mouth and loosen your tongue, that you may gladden with divine remembrance those who seclude themselves at the Kaaba of nearness, and guide and encourage all seekers to this lofty, most exalted station   AB06935

Thou beareth witness, O my God, that I desire to behold Thy lights and long to apprehend Thy mysteries. Make me weary of foreignness, acquaint me with union, and suffer me to attain my heart's desire. I am afflicted, be thou my succorer; I am abased, reveal unto me Thy greatness.  AB09214

O God, I beseech Thee with my heart and soul to render him victorious with a company of hosts that are hidden from the eyes of those who have forgotten Thy remembrance on the Day of Judgment. Illumine his eyes by beholding Thy signs that art latent in the realities of all things   AB06552

O Lord, my Goal, my Beloved! This handmaiden of Thine testifies that Thou didst raise her from utter nothingness to the robe of existence and immortality. Now I beseech Thee to withhold not the hand from taking hold of the Tablet, nor deprive the eye from beholding Thy signs.  BH06001

May God increase thy nearness to His Kingdom and thy refreshment from the breezes that waft from His holy garden. I beseech the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting One to make thee a brilliant star in the horizon of existence and a piercing meteor in the heights of the visible realm.  AB07718

I am a servant, abject, lowly, humble and submissive at the door of Thy Oneness, supplicating unto Thee, with a heart charged with Thy love and a countenance illuminated with Thy glad-tidings. O Lord! Make me to be one of those who are attracted to Thy light and abhor the darkness  AB08492

O my God! This is a servant who has turned to the Dawning-Place of Thy oneness and the Recipient of the sign of Thy uniqueness...I beseech Thee...to assist this servant to discover the mysteries and the meanings of Thy recorded Book and Thy unfurled scroll and Thy preserved tablet  AB06563

"I beseech Thee by the light of Thy countenance and the ocean of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy grace to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy servants who have quaffed the wine of understanding from the hand of Thy bestowals and attained unto the Kawthar of Thy utterance."   BH10053

Then write down for me by Thy Most Exalted Pen that which befitteth Thy days, O Lord of the Throne and the dust, Sovereign of the hereafter and of former times. Then assist me in that whereby my remembrance shall endure through the permanence of Thy celestial and earthly dominion.   BH08378

O Creator! I am the maidservant of Thy Threshold and I am weak and powerless. Thou art the Helper and Friend of the Helpless. O Thou Compassionate Beloved One! Enkindle Thou a fire in my soul and heart and consume the veil of superstitions. Illumine my eyes by beholding Thy Beauty.  AB09658

My God, my God! Thou seest me speaking Thy praise, clinging to Thy cord, and turning toward the horizon of Thy manifestation. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of what is with Thee, nor to shut me out from Thy gate which Thou hast opened unto all in Thy earth and Thy heaven.   BH02366

"O my God! O my God! Verily I am Thy humble servant and Thy meek slave. I beseech Thee with all my heart and soul, in the middle of nights, and declare: O my Lord! O my Lord! Enlighten the sights [or eyes] by the outpouring of lights; purify the souls by the fragrances of Paradise"   AB04531

O Lord! Praise be unto Thee that Thou didst bestow sustenance upon this destitute one and didst guide this poor one to the treasury of the spirit. Thou didst lead this lost caravan to the Ka'bah of its goal and didst give this thirsty fish to drink from the flowing spring of Tasnim.  AB06351

I beseech Thee by Him through Whom the greatest terror seized all humanity and every hidden matter was revealed, to send down from the heaven of Thy grace that which will draw Thy handmaidens and leaves near to the ocean of Thy nearness and the Divine Lote Tree of Thy manifestation.   BH08437

With a burning heart pray to the Kingdom of Glory by day and by night, commune with Him, and beseech that He may so enkindle thee from His lighted fire that thou mayest become like unto a raging flame and bestir the hearts of the handmaidens of God and enable them to gain detachment.  AB09641

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the hearts of the sincere ones soared into the atmosphere of Thy knowledge and the faces of them that are nigh unto Thee were turned toward the lights of Thy countenance, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in every world of Thy worlds   BH06197

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me and honored me and caused me to hear and to see that which most of Thy servants were prevented from, and for having given me to drink of the Kawthar of Thy bounty and for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge.   BH04518

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having remembered me in Thy prison. I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and the dawning-places of Thy mighty evidences to ordain for me that which will make me independent through Thy riches and renowned through Thy name amongst Thy servants.   BH05659

"O Thou Sovereign of the world, manifest amongst the nations! I beseech Thee by the Pen whereby Thou hast taught man what he knew not, to aid Thy servants and creatures to turn unto Thee, to arise before the gate of Thy bounty, and to set their faces toward the ocean of Thy bestowals."  BH00496

O Lord! This is a servant who has arisen with his whole being to aid Thy Covenant and Testament which Thou hast taken from all holy realities in the kingdom of Thy mystery and the dominion of Thy creation. O Lord! Assist him with unseen hosts. Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty.   AB03574

My God, my God! I have turned unto Thee, holding fast to Thy cord and clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy mercy, detached from all else save Thee. Ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and make me a helper of Thy Cause through the wisdom Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.  BH00342

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast gained ascendancy over all else, to send down from the heaven of Thy grace that which will purify Thy servants from the dross of self and passion, that all may turn toward the direction of Thy favors and face the Dayspring of Thy signs.  BH08254

Then assist me with every assistance encompassed by Thy knowledge and will, and raise me to a station wherein I shall hear naught except the wondrous melodies of the Dove of Thy holy oneness, and shall behold naught except the beauty of Thy creation, and shall turn to none besides Thee   BH02214

O my God and the God of all names! Ordain for me that which is best for me in the Kingdom of creation. Every atom testifieth to Thy knowledge and power, Thy grandeur and sovereignty, and Thou knowest what profiteth and preserveth me. Thou, verily, art the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH00714

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy light that is never extinguished, by the fire of Thy love that is never veiled, and by Thy carpet that is never rolled up, to make me steadfast in Thy love, firm in Thy Cause, and upright in acting according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.  BH00107

I ask Thee, O Lord my God, by the splendour of the Lights of Thy Loving-kindness and the billows of the Ocean of Thy knowledge and wisdom and by Thy Word wherewith Thou hast swayed the peoples of Thy dominion, to grant that I may be one of them that have observed Thy bidding in Thy Book.  BH07469

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having given me to drink of the Kawthar of Thy utterance, and for having caused me to turn toward the horizon of Thy Manifestation, and for having enabled me to acknowledge that which Thy Most Exalted Pen and the Tongue of Thy grandeur have spoken.  BH06827

Having drunk the choice wine of revelation from the cups of My utterance, say: Praise be to Thee, O my God, and thanksgiving be unto Thee, O my Desire, for having enabled me to turn towards Thee and for having sent down to me that which Thou hast made the water of life for all creation.   BH02789

My God, my God! I have turned toward Thy Self when I was heedless of the wonders of Thy grace, and Thou didst call me when I was sleeping upon my couch in Thy days, and Thou didst remember me when I was silent in Thy remembrance, and Thou didst guided me when I was halting in Thy Cause.   BH01166

Grant them confirmation and success that they may sacrifice their lives in the path of Thy love and attain happiness under the shadow of Thy favor. O Kind Lord, bestow strength that they may arise to serve Thy Cause, and grant insight that they may discover the mysteries of Thy oneness.   AB06666

"Conversation with God." The greatest attainment or the sweetest state is no other than 'conversation with God.' It originates spirituality, generates mindfulness and celestial feelings, begets the attractions of the Kingdom and engenders the susceptibilities of the higher Intelligence.   ABU0632

Today the rustling of the Divine Lote Tree is raised high, giving glad tidings to the people of earth and summoning them to the horizon of the Manifestation, the One Who conversed on Sinai. Blessed is the soul that has attained to hearing it and has become detached and free from all else.  BH06036

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause, and the potency of Thy Word, and the power of Thy Pen, to transform the heedlessness of the world into knowledge and wisdom. Then open before the faces of Thy loved ones the gates of inner meanings and utterance.  BH10646

I declare, by what Thou dost inspire me, that Thou canst not be described save by the beauty of Thy Self-Subsistence, nor known except through the countenance of Thy Holiness, nor mentioned but through the garments of Thy Glory, nor comprehended save through the majesty of Thy Generosity.  BB00055

perfect then Thy generosity toward him and complete Thy loving care in his regard, that the breezes of Thy eternal life may blow upon him and the rivers of Thy perpetual knowledge may flow through his heart, that he may enter the city of Thy presence and dwell in the garden of Thy eternity  BH04477

O my God! These hands of mine I have raised up for the descent of Thy mercy...I beseech Thee by Him Whom Thou hast made the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Source of Thy Being and the Repository of Thy glory, that Thou ignite us with the fire of Thy love and attract us through Thy light.  BH03676

When thou hast attained unto the breezes of revelation in thy Lord's Book, say: My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me, given me to drink, and caused me to hear Thy path, the fountain of Thy utterance, and Thy most sweet call which hath been raised betwixt earth and heaven.  BH03009

Guide me to a path that will save me from regrets, deliver me from calamities, relieve my distress, give me rest from my weariness, rescue me from my overwhelming difficulties, raise me from the abyss of my mistakes, draw me near unto Thee, intoxicate me with the choice wine of Thy favors   AB01781

My God, my God! Illumine the eyes of Thy servants that they may behold the pearls of Thy wisdom and knowledge. Then cause them to hear that which will attract them to the Dayspring of Thy Revelation, the Dawning-Place of Thy manifestation, and the Source of Thy commandments and ordinances.   BH06027

O My God! O My God! This thy servant hath abandoned superstitions, emerged from darkness and hath entered into Thy Light which hath shone forth to the world! Praise be unto Thee, O My God! for thou hast removed the covering from his insight, caused the reality of Guidance to appear unto him  AB06008

O God! O Bestower of sovereignty, Merciful to the possessed and Guardian of kings! Aid this servant who implores You to walk the path of guidance and to be faithful to Your Covenant among all peoples. Make him one of the people of piety and assist him with hosts from the Supreme Concourse.   AB04296

Praise be to you, my God, for Thou hath illuminated my insight by witnessing the Signs, adorned my truth by the knowledge of the Lord of the names and attributes, revived me with the breezes of early dawns, perfumed my nostrils with the floral fragrance and the waft of the secrets' garden.   AB01096

I beseech Thee by the Concourse on High, and by the dwellers of the pavilion of Thy glory and the tabernacle of Thy grace, to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who have cast away all else save Thee and have turned to Thy Most Exalted Horizon when Thy call was raised.   BH05624

My God, my God! Withhold not from me the outpourings of Thy Most Bountiful Name in Thy days. O Lord! I am he who hath fled from his self unto Thy Self, and who seeketh from the wonders of Thy bounty that which shall make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy service amongst Thy servants.  BH00161

O my Lord! Strengthen their backs with Thy power that subdues all things, and reinforce their spines with Thy might that encompasses all who are in earth and heaven, and make them brilliant lights in Thy most glorious horizon and radiant lamps in the glass vessels of Thy sweetest remembrance  AB03546

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the Light that hath shone forth from the horizon of Thy Will and by the Fire through which the hearts of Thy chosen ones have been set ablaze, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which befitteth the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy favor.   BH08844

I testify, O my God, that Thou hast created me and created the world, that Thou hast provided for me and for all who are in the world. Thou art He Who brought the contingent things into being through a word from Thee, and quickened those who lay in the graves through the breezes of Thy days.   BH00458

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Name, and by Thy Most Resplendent Light, and by Thy Beloved Name through which Thou didst unite hearts and souls, to unlock, through the key of Thy Most Great Name, the door of Thy bounty unto him who hath clung and held fast to the hem of Thy Most Pure Robe.  BH11065

I beseech Thee by Him Who is the Purpose of the world and by the Most Great Name which Thou hast manifested amidst the nations...that Thou wilt send down from the heaven of Thy bounty and the clouds of Thy generosity that which will tranquilize my heart, gladden mine eyes and dilate my breast.  BH07783

My God, my God! I have turned to Thee. I beseech Thee by the Manifestations of Thy sovereignty and the Daysprings of Thy might and the Sources of Thy Command and the Rising-places of Thy verses to make me steadfast in Thy love and gazing toward Thy horizon and holding fast to Thy mighty cord.   BH01930

I am one of Thy handmaidens and a leaf from the leaves of the tree of Thy love. I have turned toward the Dawning-Place of Thy mercy and the Dayspring of Thy oneness, supplicating Thee to ordain for me every good thing in Thy Kingdom and make me pure and sincere before Thy gracious countenance.  AB10323

O thou compassionate Lord! Praise be unto Thee that thou didst awaken me and raised me into consciousness. Thou didst give me a seeing eye and a hearing ear. Thou didst guide me to Thy Kingdom, led me to walk in Thy way, showed me the Straight Path, and caused me to enter the Ark of Salvation.  AB02342

Therefore, O my God, do Thou send down from Thy presence a sovereign sign and a conquering dominion that shall leave none upon the earth but shall cause them to enter Thy religion, give them to drink of the wine of Thy love and Thy sanctification, and show them Thy grace and Thy glorification.   BB00117

My God! Assist Thy servants to worship Thee and to be devoted in Thy service, illuminate their hearts with the lights of Thy worship, expand their breasts with the signs of Thy knowledge, let them taste the sweetness of Thy remembrance, and make their feet firm upon Thy Covenant and Testament.   AB01220

I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance and the lights of the sun of Thy grace to aid me in rending asunder the veils that have come between me and Thee and have prevented me from turning to the light of Thy countenance and from arriving at the shore of the ocean of Thy bounty.  BH08566

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which, when it appeared, the foundation of every house was shaken, the heart of every powerful one was disturbed, every idol wailed, and every idolater cried out - to ordain for me by Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will profit me in every world of Thy worlds.   BH05824

"O Lord of eternity and Creator of nations! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, whereby bodies were struck down and spirits were drawn forth, to make me one of them who have found the sweetness of Thy verses and who have drawn nigh with their hearts unto the shore of the ocean of Thy bounty."  BH05044

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me and taught me and made me to know. I beseech Thee by Thy generosity which hath encompassed the world to ordain for me the reward of those who have circled round Thee and stood before Thy gate and heard Thy call and beheld Thy horizon.   BH08084

And I beseech the All-Merciful, the Compassionate, to prepare the mighty cause and to establish the straight path, and to open wide before all faces the spacious gate, and to assist the sincere ones with the Great Spirit, and to illumine their insight through the outpourings of that glorious Day.  AB09073

O Lord! Suffer him not to be debarred from the river of Thy mercy. Give him to drink, at all times, from the living waters of immortality through the hands of Thy grace, that the sweet-scented breezes of Thy loving-kindness and the fragrances of Thy bestowals may take hold of him in all his days.   BH08847

grant me the water of everlasting life from the hand of Thy bounty. O my Lord! I am a leaf among Thy leaves and a handmaiden among Thy handmaidens. I have turned unto Thee, and I beseech Thee not to deprive me of the ocean of Thy generosity, the heaven of Thy munificence, and the sun of Thy grace   BH07566

I beseech Thee, O God of existence and Beloved of hearts and souls, by Thy Name which hath precedence over all names and by Thy Command which hath encompassed all things, to make known to Thy servants what Thou hast intended for them through Thy generosity and ordained for them through Thy grace.   BH06913

O Lord! Guide the deprived multitude and the sinful band, and deliver them from the depths of passion, and save them from the seas of wretchedness, and illumine their faces with the light of the Covenant, and make them signs of love shining upon the horizons, and remove the chains from their necks  AB00443

O God of Names and Creator of heaven! I beseech Thee by the Fire that spoke on Sinai and by this Revelation through which the decree of resurrection was manifested and those in the graves arose - to assist Thy servants to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy signs.  BH07397

My God, my God! All praise be unto Thee for having guided me unto Thy path and illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great and Most Glorious Name to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy trusted ones in Thy lands and Thy chosen ones in Thy dominions.  BH03312

"My God, my God, I testify to Thy oneness and Thy singleness, and to Thy might and Thy grandeur. I beseech Thee by the rustling of Thy Most Exalted Pen and by the fruits of the Sadratu'l-Muntaha to strengthen me in steadfastness in Thy Cause and in Thy remembrance and praise amongst Thy servants."   BH03033

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst manifest Thy Beauty, perfect Thy Cause, exalt Thy proof, elevate Thy names and reveal Thy attributes, that Thou mayest cause Thy servants to ascend unto the station wherein they behold Thee upon the throne of Thy majesty and the seat of Thy glory.   BH09447

O my Lord! Having singled him out among the nations and associated him with Thy Most Great Remembrance, do Thou illumine his eyes by beholding the horizon whence the Sun of Thy Will hath shone forth with the lights of the glory of Thy oneness, and illumine his heart with the light of Thy countenance  BH05769

I beseech God to strengthen you with His Holy Spirit, to cause you to speak His praise, to expand your breast through the mysteries of His Kingdom and the recitation of His Tablets, so that you may grow and develop as a fresh and verdant tree from the outpouring of God's bounty in the Abha Paradise.  AB08378

I beseech You by Your Name through which You united the hearts of Your loved ones, made known to them Your path, and taught them that which draws them near to You in Your days, to make me in all conditions attracted to Your verses, detached from all else save You, and holding fast to Your mighty cord.  BH06528

Yours is the praise, O Lord of Names, and Yours is the glory, O Creator of heaven! I beseech You by the sovereignty of Names to assist me in Your remembrance and praise and in aiding Your Cause amongst Your servants. Then establish for me and my family a station in the shade of the Tree of Your grace.   BH03476

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by this Tablet through which Thou didst raise up the Prophets and Messengers and made it a proof from Thy presence unto them, that Thou deprive me not of the fragrances of these days wherein the Sun of Thy Beauty hath shone forth with illuminating holy rays.  BH02860

Ordain for him the good of this world and the next, and assist him to remain steadfast in this Cause, at whose revelation the limbs of the learned and the princes have trembled. O Lord! As Thou hast called him unto the court of Thy grace, grant unto him that which Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones.  BH06756

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue all things and establish it as a sovereign over all who are in earth and heaven, to rend asunder the veils from the faces of all created things, that they may recognize those who denied Thee even as Thy servants have recognized them   BH06192

Our Lord! Make us firm in faith, intoxicate us with the wine of certitude, give us to drink from the chalice of assurance, admit us into the kingdom of Thy good-pleasure, and fulfill for us the measure of fidelity, even as Thou hast promised Thy loved ones bounty and beneficence, pardon and forgiveness.  AB05732

I beseech Thee by the light of Thy countenance after the extinction of all things, and by the fire of Thy Command in the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise in such wise that neither the hosts of the world nor the clamor of the nations shall prevent me.   BH09965

O God free me from these fetters. Release me from all these toils. Make me pure and sanctified. Illumine me. Fill my heart with thy love and attach me to Thyself- so that I may become a captive to that love. May I not seek ought but thee May I not search but for Thy Love and may I walk always in thy path  ABU2617

O my God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having given me to drink from the hands of Thy bounty the living waters of Thy knowledge, and for having made known unto me the Dayspring of Thy signs, and for having guided me to the Most Great Ocean which hath surged in the world before the faces of all nations.  BH11217

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned toward the horizon of Thy Manifestation, the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy commandments and ordinances. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which Thou hast ordained for such of Thy servants as are detached.  BH05289

I beseech Thee by Thy imprisonment and tribulation, by Thy oppression and affliction, to purify the people with the waters of Thy bounty and favors, and the streams of Thy generosity and gifts, that from them may be diffused naught but the fragrance of the garment of detachment in the kingdom of creation.   BH01387

Give the ears their share in hearkening to Thy call, and grant the eyes their portion of the lights of the Luminary of Thy Revelation. Besides Thee there is no refuge and never shall be. Aid us to detach ourselves from all else but Thee. May we see naught else save Thee, and desire naught else except Thee.  BH11904

I implore Thee by the onrushing winds of Thy grace, and by them Who are the Day-Springs of Thy purpose and the Dawning-Places of Thine inspiration, to send down upon me and upon all that have sought Thy face that which beseemeth Thy generosity and bountiful grace, and is worthy of Thy bestowals and favors.   BH09848

Praise be unto Thee, O God of the worlds, for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and guided me to the horizon of Thy Revelation. I beseech Thee to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who circle round Thy throne and hold fast to the Tree of Thy bounty.   BH07912

My God, my God! My liver is melted through Thy love, my joints are severed in separation from Thee, my tears flow in my estrangement from Thee, and my sighs ascend in my remoteness from the court of Thy glory. I beseech Thee... to make me steadfast in Thy service and speaking in Thy remembrance and praise.   BH03425

Glorified art Thou, O Lord of the world and Sovereign through Thy Most Great Name! I beseech Thee by the dominion of Thy power and the kingship of Thy might to make me steadfast in Thy service and to aid me at all times to guide Thy creatures to the source of Thy knowledge and the wellspring of Thy wisdom.   BH00692

At the Threshold of the Lord God, I made utmost supplication and lamentation that at least some comfort might be obtained for you. As long as the grace and favor of the Most Glorious Beauty is with us, be not grieved, be not sorrowful. The end will be the manifestation of favor and the appearance of bounty.  AB04196

Praise be to Thee for having adorned me with the ornament of Thy love and illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge. I beseech Thee to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens and leaves who circle round Thy throne by night and day. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH07436

I beseech God to open before your face a door to inner truths and meanings, and to adorn that pure heart with the jewels of divine knowledge, so that you may open your tongue in such wise as to astound the denizens of the Concourse on High, and day by day increase in faith, certitude and spiritual knowledge.  AB07645

We beseech God to manifest through thee that which shall bring joy to the eyes of them that have recognized His unity, and to make thee a standard of guidance among His creatures and a leader of His servants in this Day wherein the veils of glory have been rent asunder and God hath come with manifest beauty.   BH02018

I beseech Thee by the station wherein Thy call was raised and which Thou didst make Thy Most Sublime Vision, and by the mountains whereon the tabernacle of Thy glory was upraised and which were honored by Thy footsteps, to make this Thy handmaiden steadfast in Thy Cause and turning her gaze toward Thy horizon   BH08617

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I am he who heard Thy call and hastened unto Thee with my heart, and thus do I stand in the presence of acceptance, and verily Thou art the Lord of grandeur and majesty. Send down upon me that which will keep me from all else but Thee and draw me nigh unto Thee at all times.  BH06231

O Lord! Illumine his sight with beholding Your signs, expand his breast through knowledge of Your words, remove from him the veil, bestow upon him abundant gifts, and teach him the mysteries of Your supreme wisdom so that he may solve the complex divine questions and comprehend the hidden spiritual mysteries.  AB06559

Glory be to Thee, O Thou at Whose Name the heavens were cleft asunder, the earth was split, and the mountains crumbled! I beseech Thee by Thy grace and bounty to send down from the heaven of Thy generosity and the clouds of Thy munificence that which befitteth Thy glory, Thy transcendent majesty and Thy power.  BH04376

O Lord! Thou seest the stranger draw nigh unto the precincts of Thy mercy, the sinner seek the ocean of Thy forgiveness, and the feeble one the kingdom of Thy utterance. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which I desire from the sea of Thy bounty, the heaven of Thy grace, and the sun of Thy bestowals.  BH02822

O my Lord! Illumine his countenance with the lights shining from the Abha Kingdom, and the rays dawning from the Most Exalted Horizon, inasmuch as he hath served Thy Cause, published Thy testimony, manifested Thine evidence, elucidated Thy path, and adorned the leaves of utterance with the verses of Thy unity.  AB03562

My God, my God! Illumine their eyes with the light of Your knowledge and brighten their inner vision with a brilliant ray from the Sun of Your bounty and kindle in their hearts the fire of Your love and expand their breasts with the light of Your wisdom and make them signs of divine unity and lights of oneness  AB00869

I beseech Thee by the light of Thy reunion and the power of Thy Cause which hath encompassed Thy lands and realms, to ordain for those who hope the attainment of Thy presence and standing before the gate of Thy mercy. O Lord, Thou hast created them to hearken unto Thy call and witness the lights of Thy beauty.   BH04260

O God! O Beloved of these enraptured ones and Goal of these bewildered ones! We are scattered - bestow upon us peace of mind. We are destitute - make us wealthy. We are afflicted - grant us healing. We are wounded and suffering - bestow upon us a balm. We are lost - guide us. We are thirsty - quench our thirst.  AB09497

We must supplicate day and night, beg assistance and confirmation from His Holiness Baha'u'llah, that we may become pure mirrors, that the rays of sincerity may perfect them, the virtues of the human world appear, the moralities of the Kingdom be reflected, and that we may attain the high station of happiness.   ABU1229

Lauded and glorified art Thou, O my God! I entreat Thee by the sighing of Thy lovers and by the tears shed by them that long to behold Thee, not to withhold from me Thy tender mercies in Thy Day, nor to deprive me of the melodies of the Dove that extolleth Thy oneness before the light that shineth from Thy face.  BH05071

O Beloved of these enamored ones, and Goal of these bewildered ones! We are scattered - bestow upon us unity of thought. We are destitute - make us wealthy. We are afflicted - grant us a remedy. We are wounded and in pain - confer upon us a healing balm. We are lost - guide us. We are thirsty - give us to drink.  AB09497

O Lord! Kindle between his ribs and in his innermost being the fire of love and devotion, and illumine his face with the light of guidance, that his eyes may be gladdened by witnessing those signs before which the necks of the mighty have bowed and the voices of those endowed with understanding have been hushed.  AB08488

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the fragrance of Thy presence was stirred up and the ocean of Thy reunion surged in Thy days, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in the Kingdom of Thy Cause and the realm of Thy creation. Then make me rich through Thy riches and mighty through Thy might.  BH09946

Glory be unto Thee, O Thou through Whose Name the lands were subdued and the servants were drawn! I beseech Thee by the sighs of them that are nigh unto Thee in their separation from Thee, and by the tears of the sincere ones in their remoteness from Thee, to illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge  BH06549

O my God, my God! Aid Thy servants to that which will cause their faces to shine forth, their souls to be purified, their hearts to be dilated, their words to be exalted, their foundation to be strengthened, whereby they will draw near unto Thy most glorious Kingdom and enter among the concourse of the most high.  AB02095

My God! My God! Elohim. To this Thy servant give the understanding of the Old Testament and the New and enable her to speak forth with mighty voice and to sing with power the holy songs and to discover the real meaning and the secret mysteries of those verses, for Thou art the Powerful Inspirer and the Mighty One  AB11304

I beseech Thee by the penetrating influence of Thy Books and Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets, and by the ocean of Thy verses and the heaven of Thy bounty, to ordain for me that which shall make me independent of all else save Thee and detached from whatsoever hath prevented Thy servants from drawing nigh unto Thee.  BH10968

O Thou Desired One of all existence! O Thou Worshipped One of the unseen and the seen! Make this insignificant handmaiden to be honored, and in all things grant her discernment and inspiration, that she may freely sacrifice her life in the path of the precious Joseph of the eternal realm, the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB08517

Comfort her eyes by purifying the earth and all that is thereon, that there might remain in her knowledge naught but the letters of the most high, that her ears might hear naught but Thy verses, that her eyes might behold naught but Thy words, that her heart might witness naught but the garments of Thy countenance   BB00380

Glory be unto Thee, O God! Send down, therefore, from Thy presence upon the Letters of Truth, and upon all creation which Thy knowledge hath encompassed, that which shall cause them to enter on that Day into this Religion until the Day of Resurrection, and then on that Day into the Faith which Thou shalt inaugurate  BB00004

O Thou Whose face is the object of my adoration, Whose beauty is my sanctuary, Whose habitation is my goal, Whose praise is my hope, Whose providence is my companion, Whose love is the cause of my being, Whose mention is my solace, Whose nearness is my desire, Whose presence is my dearest wish and highest aspiration  BH10973

My God, my God! I testify that from Thy Pen hath flowed the river of knowledge and wisdom. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy generosity and the heaven of Thy bounty to assist Thy servants to turn unto Thee, and enable them to face toward the lights of Thy countenance and to advance toward the horizon of Thy gifts.   BH05594

"My God, my God! Adorn the heads of Thy servants with the crown of trustworthiness and the fear of God, and their temples with the ornament of truthfulness and guidance, and illumine their hearts, O my God, with the lights of Thy knowledge and their faces with the effulgences of the Daystar of Thy Revelation."   BH02811

If we are hemmed in by difficulties we have only to call upon God, and by His great Mercy we shall be helped. If sorrow and adversity visit us, let us turn our faces to the Kingdom and heavenly consolation will be outpoured. If we are sick and in distress let us implore God's healing, and He will answer our prayer.   ABU0386

O Lord of the Covenant and Testament! You see Your servant, captive of longings, with inner parts aflame with the fire of separation, in most intense burning, near to extinction, of little share, unbridled in Your love throughout the horizons, companion of passion, of great sorrow, intimate of the people of radiance.  AB01688

When thou hast attained unto My Tablet and hast heard My call, say: My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and for having sent down unto me that whose traces shall not be cut off through the perpetuity of Thy Most Beautiful Names and Thy Most Exalted Attributes.  BH04813

Day and night do I pray and entreat and commune with God that day by day you may advance; day by day you may progress spiritually; day by day you may become greater; day by day your spirituality may become brighter; may day by day you receive spiritual life so that you may attain to the highest point of your desires.   ABU1693

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Him Who conversed upon Sinai, Who has ascended the throne of manifestation, and by the fire of Thy Sacred Tree, and by Thy Greatest Name whereby Thou hast subdued the cities of names, to open before my face the door of Thy bounty, Thy grace, Thy might and Thy wealth.  BH09325

I have cast aside all else but Thee and have turned to Thee. Wilt Thou disappoint me from the ocean of Thy mercy and the sun of Thy grace? Or wilt Thou make me one of those through whom Thy signs were spread abroad and Thy evidences appeared, and who drank the choice wine of Thy revelation from the hands of Thy bounty?  BH06747

I am one of Thy servants, who hath believed on Thee and on Thy signs. Thou seest how I have set myself towards the door of Thy mercy, and turned my face in the direction of Thy loving-kindness. I beseech Thee, by Thy most excellent titles and Thy most exalted attributes, to open to my face the portals of Thy bestowals.  BH05771

My God, my God! I commune with Thee while Thou art the One who communes with those who seek communion, and I beseech Thee by the manifestations of Thy oneness, the signs of Thy mercy, and the attributes of Thy singleness, to assist this servant to turn to Thee in devotion and supplication in all matters and conditions.  AB01459

I beseech Thee, O Thou through Whose word the world was set in motion and by Whose name the Ancient Sea was made to surge, to send down from the heaven of Thy grace and the clouds of Thy mercy that which will cause to spring forth from the soil of hearts the plants of Thy knowledge and the fruits of Thy love and praise.  BH05073

O my God! I beseech Thee by the Lamp which Thou hast kindled with the fire of Thy Cause between Thy heaven and earth, and by Thy Name through which Thou hast distinguished between Thy servants and Thy creatures, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise, and preserve me from that which Thy good-pleasure abhorreth.   BH01413

I ask God to shower down upon thee a heavenly blessing; to make thee to serve His Cause and attain His good pleasure; to teach thee that which thou knewest not; to inspire thee with His argument and proof; to confirm thee in faith and assurance; and to make thee the sign of the Merciful among the concourse of the worlds.  AB09627

O Kind Lord! Thanks be to Thee for having made me one of the chosen rather than merely the called, for having shown me the path of the Kingdom and enabled me to witness the lights of the Realm Above, for having breathed into me the breath of life and quickened my heart and soul, and refreshed my spirit and consciousness.  AB06588

Send down, O my Beloved, into their hearts that which will purify them from all else but Thee and draw them near to the sanctuary of Thy good-pleasure and the source of Thy will, that they may speak naught except in Thy love, turn to none save in devotion to Thee, face no direction but the direction of Thy mercy and bounty  BH00915

O God, illumine the eyes and the hearts of Thy servants with the light of Thy Knowledge, that they may know of this, the Highest Station and Glorious Horizon, that they may not be withheld by false voices from beholding the effulgence of the light of Thy Oneness, nor prevented from turning unto the horizon of Renunciation.  AB07826

Turn our faces toward the Beauty of Thy Oneness and gladden our bosoms with the Signs of Thy Divine Unity. Adorn our bodies with the Robe of Thy Bounty and remove from our eyes the veil of sinfulness and give us the Chalice of Thy Grace, that the essence of all beings may sing Thy praise before the vision of Thy Grandeur.   AB06211

My God, my God! You know the secret of my heart and the reality of my inner being. I beseech You and implore at the gate of Your oneness to make me a sign of Your unity and the essence of Your love among Your handmaidens, the embodiment of Your knowledge among the leaves, and the spirit of attraction among the assured ones.  AB05522

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the heaven of meaning and utterance, and by the rustling of Thy Pen, O Merciful One, by Thy Name through which Thou didst unite the hearts and reveal what was hidden in the treasuries, to ordain for me by Thy Most Exalted Pen that which shall profit me in the world to come and in this world.  BH04836

O Lord of all being and Educator of all things visible and invisible! Grant us ears that are pure, hearts that are sanctified, and eyes that see, so that we may discover the sweetness of Thine enthralling utterance, may fix our gaze upon Thy supreme horizon, and may come to know whatever hath been sent down through Thy bounty  BH01001

My God, my God! Regard not Thy servants and what they have wrought in Thy days, but rather their poverty and Thy riches, their weakness and Thy power. Aid them, O God of existence and Lord of the visible and invisible, to hearken unto the rustling of Thy Pen and to behold the horizon of the heaven of Thy bounty and grace.  BH01657

O my Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and holding fast to the cord of Thy grace. I beseech Thee not to deprive me of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones. Then write down, O my God, that which will aid me in all the worlds of Thy worlds and will profit me through Thy bounty and generosity.  BH03012

I beg of God to make thee fluent in tongue, pure in heart, strong in spirit, severed in heart from all else save God, and occupied in the praise of God, to continue in prayer and supplication unto God, to be humble, meek, spiritual, free from the earthly world and its concerns, and awakened to the Kingdom and its Manifestation.  AB08990

O Thou Compassionate Lord! Illumine these souls with the list of the Most Great Guidance! Confer life upon these spirits through thy divine Glad-tidings! Enlighten these eyes by beholding the splendours of Thy Sun! Make these ears hearing by hearkening Thy Most Glorious Call! Suffer them to enter in the Kingdom of Thy Holiness!  ABU2174

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the Lamp of Thy Cause, which hath taken neither glass nor guard nor veil for its protection, to ordain for us that which will gladden our hearts and tranquilize our souls. Then open before our faces, through the key of Thy name the All-Bountiful, the gates of Thy mercy and loving-kindness.   BH02132

I beg of God that thou wilt become assisted and confirmed under all circumstances to find the ease of spirit and the happiness of consciousness, to enter under the shadow of the Tree of Life and to perfume thy nostrils from the fragrances of the holy rose-garden and to illumine thy heart with the lights of the mercy of guidance.  AB08733

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having honored me with Thy days and illumined me with the lights of Thy knowledge. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and the heaven of Thy grace, and by the Lamp that hath taken neither guard nor veil unto itself, to make me known by Thy Name and steadfast in the service of Thy Cause.  BH00666

O God! Awaken these souls! Make them mindful! Perfume their nostrils with the sweet Fragrances of Thy spiritual rose-garden! Enlighten their eyes by the shafts of light which are streaming down from the central Sun of Thy Majesty! In order that their hearts may become as purified mirrors reflecting the rays of the Sun of Reality.  ABU1028

I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to send down upon the hearts of the sincere ones that which will draw them near unto Thee and cause them to speak Thy praise amongst Thy creatures with such detachment as to attract the hearts of Thy creation and to cause the mountains of the earth to crumble through Thy power.  BH10288

"My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance and the lights of the dayspring of Thy manifestation and whatsoever was hidden in Thy Tablets and Thy Scriptures, to make me firm, steadfast, unwavering and upright in Thy love and Thy Cause, and to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book."   BH03830

I beseech Thee by the dawning-places of Thy Most Beautiful Names and the day-springs of Thy most exalted attributes, and by Thy Greatest Signs, to send down upon Thy servants that which will draw them to Thine All-Highest Horizon and bring them near unto Thee, O Lord of all beings and King of the throne on high and of earth below.   BH00920

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Educator of the seen and the unseen, by Thy Name through which the pearls of mysteries appeared through the key of Thy chosen Name, and through which the hearts of the righteous were attracted, to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, Thy trusted ones, and Thy loved ones.  BH11883

O thou Almighty! Glorify this one who longs for Thy Meeting in Thy Kingdom, and put on his head a crown of gift, clothe him with the garment of the most great guidance, bestow upon him an eloquent tongue and the gift of clear explanation, and show him the Power of Thy Kingdom and manifest to him the confirmation of the Holy Spirit.  AB10965

O my Lord! Thou hearest the sighing of the hopeful ones and the moaning of the yearning ones. I beseech Thee not to withhold them from the court of Thy nearness, nor from the Kawthar of Thy presence and the Salsabil of reunion with Thee. Verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Generous, the All-Bestowing, the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH06037

Glory be unto Thee, O God, O Thou in Whose hand is the kingdom of names and in Whose grasp is the dominion of eternity. I beseech Thee to make us among those who have been drawn by Thy verses and have detached themselves from all else but Thee and have taken complete refuge at Thy threshold and sought full protection in Thy Beauty.   BH01349

My God, my God! Disappoint me not of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones, and withhold me not from the effusions of Thy days. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word, whereby Thou hast subdued earth and heaven, to make me in all conditions looking unto Thee, speaking Thy praise, and holding fast to Thy Strong Cord.   BH07844

O my God and my Master! I beseech Thee by the rustling of the breezes of Thy springtime and the lights of Thy countenance and the fragrances of Thy days and the manifestations of Thy power and the revelations of Thy grandeur to preserve me through Thy bounty and Thy loving-kindness, then grant me what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.  BH09068

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Knowing, and glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Most Bountiful, and by Thy Most Great Name, through which Thou hast subdued the nations, to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, Thy trusted ones, and Thy loved ones.  BH06569

My God, my God! Aid me to be just and fair, and to gaze upon the signs of Thy Most Exalted Pen with mine own eyes and not with the eyes of others. I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen, by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the world, to unveil for me as Thou hast unveiled Thy Cause for others.  BH00879

Send down, therefore, O my God, upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad in Thy most exalted gardens and in the most holy, most glorious chambers of Thy good-pleasure that which will bring solace to their eyes. For verily Thou, O my God, art at every moment engaged in a wondrous work, with fresh manifestations and sublime revelations.  BB00011

I beg for thee from the Divine Threshold infinite bounty, and from the horizon of oneness I seek the dawning of the light of bestowal, that the cloud of mercy may pour down its rain, and the breeze of providence may waft, and the Sun of Truth may shine forth, and the field of heart and soul may attain boundless freshness and delicacy.  AB09322

I beseech God to make thee a manifest standard waving in the heights of glory, a brilliant star in the manifest horizon, and a tree growing, developing, flourishing and offering shade in the groves of the knowledge of God. May thy Lord assist thee in whatsoever thou lovest and approvest, and prepare for thee that which thou desirest.   AB05967

I beseech Thee by those who have circled round Thy Most Great Throne and visited Thy countenance in Thy days, and who have not broken Thy Covenant and Testament, to ordain for me the reward of a handmaid who hath drunk the wine of reunion from the cup of Thy bounty and bestowal, and hath beheld the horizon of manifestation in Thy days.  BH07634

My God, my God! Illumine their eyes to behold Thy signs and adorn their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge. O Lord! Withhold them not from that which Thou hast manifested through Thy bounty and generosity, and from that which Thou hast sent down through Thy grace and favors. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH00530

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to the Manifestation of Thy Self, the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy signs. O Lord! Ordain for me that which will render me detached from all else save Thee and cause me to hold fast to the hem of Thy luminous robe. Thou art, verily, the Mighty, the Great.  BH11377

O Thou the nearness of Whom is my hope, and union with Whom is my desire, and remembrance of Whom is my aspiration, and entry into the court of Whose might is my goal, and Whose direction is my quest, and Whose name is my healing, and Whose love is the light of my breast, and standing in Whose presence is the ultimate aim of my seeking!  BH08603

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I am he who hath turned with his heart unto the sanctuary of Thy holiness and bounty, and hath clung to the hem of Thy loving-kindness and favors. Wherefore, O my God, deprive me not of the sweet-scented fragrances of the garment of Thy grace and gifts, and withhold me not from that which lieth with Thee...  BH02556

Glory be unto Thee, O Lord of the world and Sovereign of the nations! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name which was hidden in Thy knowledge and treasured in the stronghold of Thy protection, to send down from the heaven of Thy bounty upon Thy servants that which will draw them nigh unto Thee and assist them in serving and obeying Thee   BH07935

I beseech Thee by the sovereignty of Names and the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge, O Lord of the Throne and earth, to make me among those women who turned to Thee when Thou didst appear, who hearkened when Thou didst call, and who directed themselves to Thee when the earth and heaven were illumined by the light of Thy countenance.   BH06589

My God, my God! I testify that through Thy manifestation the ocean of knowledge hath surged within creation and the sun of learning hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of proof. I beseech Thee...to ordain for me that which shall prevent me from turning to aught else but Thee and shall draw me nigh unto the court of Thy glory.  BH06383

My Lord and my Hope! Assist this servant in that wherein Thou didst assist me in servitude at Thy Holy Threshold. O Lord! Make his affairs easy, expand his breast, fulfill his hopes, strengthen his loins, forgive his burden, and make him a sign among the signs of Thy Kingdom amidst Thy creation. Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty.  AB06823

O my Lord! Strengthen him through Thy mighty power to obey Thy command, to walk in the paths of Thy good-pleasure, to supplicate toward the Kingdom of Thy Oneness, to be severed from all else save Thee, to beseech Thy Glory, O Thou Who answerest all who call upon Thee! - and to be immersed in the ocean of Thy love and to spread Thy name.   AB07858

O Lord, Illuminator of the East and West, Lord of the two Orients! Aid Thy servant Husayn through Thy perfect grace and bounty. Admit him into the two dark-green gardens and let him drink from the two flowing springs, that he may become Thy greatest sign among all peoples and Thy supreme gift upon the earth, until he attains the Pleiades.  AB07160

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having sent down upon me from the clouds of Thy mercy the rains of Thy grace, and caused me to hear Thy call, and guided me to Thy path, and illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge, and given me to drink that which hath drawn me to the court of Thy might and the precincts of Thy holiness.   BH04126

O Lord! Thou seest me turning toward the ocean of Thy mercy and the sun of Thy generosity. I beseech Thee by the splendors of the morn of Thy Manifestation and by that which lay hidden in Thy knowledge, to open before the faces of Thy loved ones, through the key of Thy grace, that which shall gladden their eyes and tranquilize their souls.   BH04811

I beseech Thee, O Lord of creation and Beloved of all who dwell in the realm of invention, to assist me in all conditions to turn towards the Kaaba of Thy Cause and to arise independently to manifest Thy love amongst Thy creatures. Then write down for me, through Thy grace, that which shall profit me in this world and in the world to come.   BH01606

O my Lord! Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me in Thy Most Great Prison and sent unto me that which hath gladdened mine eyes, assured my soul, and attracted my heart. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name to ordain what is best for me, for I know not what lieth within Thy Self, and Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH04650

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy wisdom. I beseech Thee by the light which hath shone forth from the horizon of Thy grace to preserve me through Thy power and might, and to ordain for me that which will make me independent through Thy riches and steadfast in Thy Cause.  BH03635

My Lord! Assist Thy servant who has been illumined by the lights of Thy oneness from the lamp of Thy guidance, and has heard Thy sweetest call raised from Thy most glorious Kingdom. Strengthen him with mighty power, illumine his heart with the Greatest Sign, and expand his breast through Thy most exalted outpourings from Thy supreme heaven.   AB03189

"My prayer and ardent supplication, at eventide and at dawn, is that these shining stars may soon shed their radiance upon the world, that their sacred countenances may be unveiled to mortal eyes, that the hosts of divine assistance may achieve their victory, and the billows of grace, rising from His oceans above, may flow upon all mankind."  AB01587

O Lord! Delight their eyes with the vision of the lights, perfume their inner beings with the sweet scents of mysteries, and purify their consciences with the signs of light, that they may arise to serve Thee with such power as to shake the mountains, cause the limbs of men to tremble, and strike terror into the hearts of the mighty warriors.  AB01285

O my God and the God of all things, my Lord and the Lord of all names! Thou seest and knowest that I have recognized and become certain that this Path is the most excellent and most glorious of all the paths of the world. Therefore have I chosen it as my path that it may lead me unto Thee and bring me nigh unto the court of Thy holiness.   BH02843

Glory be unto Thee, O my God, my Lord, my Beloved, and my Purpose! I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause, whereby earth and heaven were illumined, and whereby all things were stirred when they recognized it, to assist Thy servants to return unto Thee, to turn repentant to the gate of Thy grace, and to hold fast unto the cord of Thy bounty.   BH01488

I have tasted of the sweetness of Thy speech, and acknowledged Thy unity and Thy singleness, and set my face towards the Source of Thy most excellent names and the Day-Spring of Thy transcendent attributes, and wished to be enabled by Thee to immerse myself beneath the ocean of Thy oneness and to be submerged by the mighty waters of Thy unity.   BH02535

Grant, then, O my God, that Thy servant who hath turned towards Thee, hath fixed his gaze upon Thee, and clung to the cord of Thy mercifulness and favor, may be enabled to partake of the living waters of Thy mercy and grace. Cause him, then, to ascend unto the heights to which he aspireth, and withhold him not from that which Thou dost possess.   BH03850

O my Lord! Praise be to Thee for having turned toward me from the direction of the prison. I beseech Thee by Thy wrongs and by what befell Thee at the hands of Thine enemies, to make me one of those who have taken hold of Thy Book with the hand of resignation, clinging to what hath been sent down therein from the heaven of Thy commands and laws.   BH04373

"Praise be unto Thee, O Lord of Names and Creator of the heavens! I beseech Thee by the lamp of Thy Cause whereby Thou hast illumined the world, and by Thy most sweet utterance and the most exalted pen to make me one who speaketh of Thy remembrance and who holdeth fast unto Thy cord."  BH04008

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy power to raise me up, and by Thy sovereignty to assist me, and to send down upon me the signs of Thy grace, Thy loving-kindness, Thy mercy and Thy bounty. Verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, the All-Generous. There is no God but Thee, the Self-Sufficient, the Most Exalted.  BH10414

My God, my God! Thou seest my powerlessness before the manifestations of the Sun of Thy might, my poverty before the waves of the ocean of Thy riches, and my weakness before the evidences of Thy grandeur...O my Lord! Thou seest the thirsty one making for the ocean of Thy bounty, desiring naught but the wonders of Thy generosity and munificence  BH02525

I implore Thee, by Thine Ocean unto which Thou didst summon all the inmates of heaven and all the dwellers of the earth, to help Thy servants who have been kept back from turning unto it and from approaching its shores. Make them, then, O my God, to be detached from all else but Thee, and enable them to speak forth Thy praise and extol Thy virtues.   BH05402

O Kind Lord! Make that blessed servant steadfast in this lofty station, that this sufferer may find release from every pain, seek healing for the soul, and soar to the exalted pavilion. O Merciful One! Nourish this fresh and verdant sapling with the drops of the cloud of bounty, and through the dewdrops of favors keep it ever green and flourishing.   AB05449

O God! Invite this prisoner in the chains of longing to the pavilion of the Abha Kingdom, and grant this broken-winged bird flight to the gardens of the highest horizon. Confirm this solitary one with unseen hosts, aid this helpless and supportless one with the angels of the unseen realm, and strengthen this weak and frail body with complete power.   AB01825

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having turned toward this servant of Thine and sent down unto him that which every letter thereof testifieth to Thy grace and bounty and might and grandeur and loving-kindness. I beseech Thee, O King of Kings and Compassionate to the downtrodden, to aid them to turn toward Thee and face the lights of Thy countenance.   BH04141

O Lord, O Creator! Thou hast given this weak ant a place on the carpet of the Solomon of the divine realm, guided this lost one to the shore of the ocean of Thy oneness, quenched this thirsty one with the Salsabil of bounty, brought this dead one to life with the spirit of eternal life, illumined this dejected face, and burned away these thick veils   AB06358

O God! That thirsty one is arriving at Your spring, that yearning one gazes upon the Kingdom of Beauty, that wanderer reaches the original homeland, and that helpless one arrives at the threshold of grace. Therefore, bestow freely and generously whatever is worthy of the celestial court. You are the Forgiver, and You are the Bestower and the Kind One.  AB03143

I beseech Thee, therefore, O Thou Who art the Possessor of the entire creation and the King of the realm of Thine invention, graciously to aid Thy creatures to accomplish that which is pleasing and acceptable unto Thee, that they may arise to serve Thy Cause amidst Thy creatures, and to speak forth Thy praise before all who are in heaven and on earth.   BH07679

My God, my God! Thou seest those who have turned to Thee, yearning for Thy presence and to stand before Thy face, and those who remember Thee in their lands. O Lord! Ordain for each one of them what Thou hast ordained for the sincere among Thy servants and the near ones among Thy creatures. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH03755

O Lord! Thou seest me standing before Thy gate, enkindled with the fire of Thy love, gazing toward the hidden gifts of Thy bounty, content with what Thou hast ordained for me in the tablets of Thy decree and the pages of Thy destiny. I beseech Thee by Thy Self to strengthen me in Thy love in such wise that I shall suffice myself with Thee as mine aid.   BH01651

O my God! Deprive not Thy servants of the sweetness of Thy utterance, and withhold them not from that which hath appeared in Thy days. Take their hands with the hand of Thy power and deliver them from the ocean of vain imaginings, O Master of all names, and illumine them with the lights of the horizon of certitude, O Most Merciful of the merciful ones.  BH11635

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the Hidden Secret and the Treasured Symbol were revealed, and through which the sun of what was and what shall be shone forth from the horizon of Thy Will, to send down upon me at all times that which will draw me nigh unto the court of Thy Name, the All-Merciful, that I may detach myself from all created things   BH03192

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned unto Thee and seek from the ocean of Thy bounty that which will render me detached from all else save Thee, speaking Thy praise and soaring in Thy atmosphere. I testify that the choice wine of Thy utterance hath seized me and the pure water of Thy expression hath intoxicated me.   BH00356

Glorified art Thou, O Thou by Whose Face-light the horizons were illumined and by Whose Name the mysteries were revealed on the Day of Meeting! I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the fruits of the Tree of Thy oneness to ordain for me, through the wonders of Thy bounty, that which will profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds.  BH07913

O my Beloved, my Purpose, and the Ultimate Goal of my desires! You behold this evanescent servant who has turned to You and sought from You the eternal water. Grant that which befits Your greatness and is worthy of Your days. I beseech You by Your Most Great Name to rend asunder the veils of the servants and to show and open unto them the gate of mercy.   BH04117

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having given me to drink, from the hand of Thy bounty, Thy sealed wine. I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the Ark of Utterance sailed upon the sea of Thy knowledge by Thy leave and command, to assist me in that which befitteth Thy Manifestation and Thy emergence and Thy might and Thy grandeur and Thy choice.   BH03862

O God of creation, known by Thy Name, the Truth! Thou knowest, seest, and bearest witness that this evanescent servant hath exerted his utmost effort and striving to manifest Thy Cause, to exalt Thy Word, and to convey that wherewith Thou hast gladdened Thy servants and creatures, that they might behold Thy path and turn toward it with insight from Thee.   BH00291

Lord, Lord! I am weak; strengthen my back with Thy power. I am sick; heal me with Thy antidote. I am bewildered; guide me to that which will spread Thy fragrances. O Lord! I am thirsty; give me to drink from the cup of life from the spring of Thy favor. I am naked; clothe me with the robes of Thy mercy. I am poor; enrich me with the wealth of Thy Kingdom.  AB00127

O Creator! I am the maidservant of Thy Threshold and I am weak and powerless. Thou art the Helper and Friend of the Helpless. O Thou Compassionate Beloved One! Enkindle thou a fire in my soul and heart and consume the veil of superstitions. Illumine my eyes by beholding Thy Beauty and make my soul and conscience the envy of the Rose Garden and flowerbeds.  AB09658

"Glory be unto Thee, O Master of existence and Knower of the seen and unseen! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which, when it shone forth upon the mirrors of all created things, was reflected therein that there is none other God but Him, to draw me ever closer to Thee in all conditions and to strengthen me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with."   BH04585

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy unity, which none besides Thee hath fathomed, and by the stations of the Kaaba of Thy knowledge and the effulgences of the Sun of Thy wisdom, to protect Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones from the cawing of the croakers, the doubts of the suspicious, the hints of the transgressors, and the onslaught of the oppressors.  BH11608

My God, my God! With what tongue can I recall Thy gifts and bounties? I was heedless - the breezes of Thy Revelation awakened me. I was asleep - the fingers of Thy grace pinched me and raised me up to Thy Cause. I was ignorant - Thou didst guide me to the ocean of Thy knowledge and learning. I was silent - Thou didst cause me to speak forth Thy praise.   BH07985

O God of kings and Sovereign of the Kingdom! I beseech Thee by Thy signs, Thy clear tokens, and Thy proof before which the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the cities of names have bowed down, that Thou mayest draw me through Thy lights in such wise that I may behold myself detached from all else save Thee, turned toward Thee, and steadfast in Thy love.   BH07401

My God, my God! Deprive us not of that whereby the stations of Thy loved ones are elevated among Thy servants and Thy chosen ones in Thy lands. O Lord! Thou seest them clinging to the cord of Thy grace. Aid them to hear that which will profit them through Thy bounty and exalt them through Thy generosity and bestowal. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.  BH01379

My Lord, my Hope, and the Ultimate Object of my desire! Grant me to drink from the cup which Thou didst give to drink through Thy hands of mercy, and provide me from the feast which Thou didst feed from the table of Thy loving-kindness. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Bountiful, the Merciful, and unto Thy sincere servants Thou art possessed of great favor.   AB02965

O Lord! Thou seest me turning away from all else but Thee and advancing toward the gate of Thy grace, hoping for that which Thy Most Exalted Pen hath ordained for such of Thy servants as are detached and such of Thy creation as are sincere, whom nothing whatsoever hath deterred from turning toward Thy horizon and drawing nigh unto the tabernacle of Thy glory.   BH01370

O spiritual youth and luminous son! Arise, turning thy face toward the divine horizon, supplicating to the heavenly Kingdom, submitting humbly and meekly to the divine Dominion. With a heart detached, a spirit directed heavenward, a soul attracted, and aflame with the fire that was kindled on Mount Sinai, seek the outpourings of the Spirit from all directions.  AB09649

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto the horizon of Thy Manifestation and illumined me with the lights of Thy Name, the All-Forgiving. I beseech Thee by Thy most sweet call and by that which was hidden in Thy knowledge, O Lord of the Kingdom of Names, to rain down upon me from the clouds of Thy mercy the rains of Thy utterance and bounty.  BH02093

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having brought me forth from the loins of one of Thy loved ones. I beseech Thee, O Creator of dawn and Sender of winds, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause and in that which draws me near to Thee in all conditions. O Lord! I have turned to Thee and I ask Thee by Thy power to open before my face the door of Thy favors.  BH10756

O Lord! When Thou findest in the heart of any of Thy servants the pearl of Thy love, make mention of him from this quarter, purely for Thy sake, that the attraction of Thy call may seize him in such wise that he may detach himself from all else save Thee and arise wholly to celebrate Thy praise and remembrance and to stand firm in Thy Cause amidst Thy creatures.  BH04687

O my God, O Gracious One, O Merciful One! Thou art that Sovereign by Whose single word existence came into being, and Thou art that Generous One Whom the deeds of Thy servants have not prevented from bestowing, nor held back the manifestations of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee to enable this servant to attain unto that which is the cause of salvation in all worlds.   BH00554

I beseech Thee, O God, my God, by the one whom Thou hast raised to the heavens of Thine eternity and seated upon the throne of grandeur in the station of Thy sovereignty...that Thou unite Thy servants as Thou hast united Thy letters and create love in the mysteries of their hearts through Thy power as Thou hast created it among their conditions through Thy might.  BH02023

My God, my God! Verily Thy servant, enkindled with the fire of Thy love and drawn to the kingdom of Thy mercy, desires to call upon Thee with my tongue and commune with Thee through my mouth, and seeks from Thee spiritual confirmation and luminous outpouring, that his soul may be gladdened thereby, his breast dilated, his spirit delighted, and his heart rejoiced.  AB11989

Illumine the hearts with a brilliant ray from Thy Kingdom of Oneness, delight the eyes with beholding the signs of Thy mercy, and gladden the ears with hearing the melodies of the birds of Thy confirmation in the garden of Thy mercy, until they become like thirsty fish swimming in the pools of Thy guidance and like red lions roaring in the thickets of Thy bounty.  AB09611

O God of all existence! I beseech Thee by Thy patience and Thy forbearance to render me confirmed in Thy remembrance and Thy praise. Thou art He Who, O my God, hath made me to know Thy Manifestation, caused me to hear Thy Call, and taught me to turn toward Thy horizon. There is no God but Thee, the Powerful, the Exalted, the Bestowing, the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH08398

I beseech Thee by Thy pardon which hath preceded Thy wrath, and by Thy mercy which hath preceded Thy vengeance, and by Thy heavenly table around which have gathered those of Thy East and West, and by the river of Thy bounty wherewith Thou hast given drink to the manifestations of existence, to ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee in all conditions.  BH02854

O Lord! Thou seest the people of the Bayan and hearest what their tongues utter, and knowest their deeds and their turning away from the Station whereby Thy proof was established from time immemorial and the signs of Thy power were revealed with majesty and grandeur. I beseech Thee, O Subduer of the world and Quickener of moldering bones, to assist them to return.  BH00868

Glory be unto Thee, O my God and the God of all names, my Creator and the Creator of the heavens! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the world and through which the ocean of utterance surged in the contingent world and the sun of proof shone forth, to aid me in Thy remembrance and praise and to strengthen me to stand firm in Thy Cause.   BH02399

I beseech Thee by the Manifestations of Thy Beauty in the highest Paradise, and the Dawning-Places of Thy Love in the supreme Heaven, and by the Stars of Thy bounty in the heaven of bestowal, and by the flow of Thy Pen whereby the hearts of the chosen ones were enraptured, to ordain for him who hath turned unto Thee the best of the hereafter and of the former world.  BH09407

O my God, my Lord, my Support and my Hope! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned unto the Daysprings of Thy Revelation and the Dawning-Places of Thy inspiration, and have set my face towards Thy Face that abideth after the perishing of all things, hoping for Thy mercy that hath preceded the world and Thy grace that hath encompassed the nations.   BH01348

When thou hearest the call from the Most Exalted Horizon, say: Praise be to Thee, O Lord of all mankind, and glory be to Thee, O Lord of the throne on high and of the dust beneath, for having caused me to hear Thy call and witness Thy signs, and for having raised me to the heaven of Thy nearness and enabled me to make mention of Thee in the night season and at dawn.   BH04478

These souls have believed in Thee and in Thy most exalted Word, and have clung to the hem of Thy favors in this nether world, turning their faces toward the Concourse on High, beseeching at the gate of Thy oneness, holding fast to the cord of Thy divine sovereignty, voicing Thy praise, their faces radiant with the light streaming from the dawning-place of Thy oneness  AB09132

O Glorious Forgiver! Unto this one who is captivated by Thy musk-laden tresses, grant an overflowing cup of the wine of Thy love. Make him wakeful and aware. Be Thou his Comforter and Consoler. Show him kindness and bestow upon him a goodly nature. Make him firm and steadfast, established and perfect. Draw him nigh unto Thy Threshold and make him cognizant and aware.  AB08224

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having called me unto Thee and drawn me nigh unto the ocean of Thy bounty and shown me that which was hidden from most of Thy servants. My God, my God! I testify that through the breathings of Thy revelation the world hath been perfumed. I beseech Thee not to withhold me and Thy loved ones from the outpourings of Thy wondrous Day.  BH00812

Then send down, O my God, upon Thy loved ones from the clouds of the heaven of Thy grace the rains of Thy mercy, that they may be cleansed from all else save Thee and be made ready to draw nigh unto Thee and to meet Thee, to dwell in Thy presence and to enter the pavilions of Thy grandeur - the station whereon Thy Temple was established upon the throne of Thy majesty.  BH06413

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having mentioned me, made me known, guided me, and caused me to speak. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and Thy Dominion, by Thy sweetest call between Thy earth and Thy heaven, by the lights of Thy countenance and Thy throne, and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and wisdom, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause   BH00772

"My God, my God! Thou hast informed me of the clamor of the clamorous ones in Thy cities and domains, and of the doubts of the doubtful ones in Thy days. I beseech Thee by the treasuries of Thy verses and the dawning-places of Thy commandments and laws to preserve me from the suggestions of the heedless ones and the whispers of those who have denied the Day of Judgment."  BH07036

My God, my God! Thou seest me detached from all else save Thee and holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by Thy Beloved, through Whom the light of unity hath shone forth from the horizon of the world and the decree of justice hath been established among the nations, to assist me to act according to that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy perspicuous Book.   BH08598

I implore Thee by Thine All-Glorious Name, wherewith Thou didst adorn all the denizens of the kingdom of Thy revelation and the inmates of the heaven of Thy will, to grant that my soul may be attracted by the sweetness of the melody of the Bird of Heaven that chanteth amidst the branches of the tree of Thy decree that Thou art God, that there is none other God beside Thee.   BH07658

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Have mercy, then, upon those who have previously entered into Thy Faith and upon those who will enter into that Faith, that Thou mayest draw them unto Thy Cause and enable them to recognize Thy Self, that they may testify before Thee that there is none other God but Thee, the Lord of the heavens and the Lord of the earth, the Lord of all worlds.  BB00004

O my God! O my God! Verily, these servants are turning to Thee, supplicating Thy kingdom of mercy. Verily, they are attracted by Thy holiness and set aglow with the fire of Thy love, seeking confirmation from Thy wondrous kingdom, and hoping for attainment in Thy heavenly realm. Verily, they long for the descent of Thy bestowal, desiring illumination from the Sun of Reality.  ABU0188

O My handmaiden! Hearken unto My call and say: Praise be unto Thee, O Thou through Whose Name the heaven of idle fancies was cleft asunder and the earth of vain imaginings was split, and through the power of Whose exalted Word all things were set in motion. I beseech Thee to make this handmaiden of Thine steadfast in Thy Cause and speaking Thy praise amongst Thy handmaidens.   BH04062

Then I beseech Thee, O my God, not to withhold from me the outpourings of the clouds of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy generosity. Send down upon me at all times that which will draw me to the horizon of Thy grace and sanctify me from all else besides Thee and cause me to speak forth that which Thou didst command me in Thy presence when the lights of Thy beauty were revealed.  BH02272

I implore Thee, O my Lord, by Thy name, the Ever-Abiding, and by Thy name which Thou didst ordain to be the most great Instrument binding thee to Thy servants, to grant that I may flee for shelter to Thy door, and speak forth Thy praise. Write down, then, for me, in every world of Thine, that which will enable me to enter beneath Thy shadow and within the borders of Thy court.   BH05837

Therefore, O God, make firm our hearts in Thy unity, for we have accepted Thee as Lord - Glory be unto Thee, there is no God but Thee, in truth, in truth. And send down upon our spirits that which will give them rest in Thy praise...and that which will give peace to our souls from the Manifestations of the lights of Thy countenance and the leaves of the Tree of Thine eternity.   BB00096

O Lord of bounty and favor, of protection and shelter, of grace and safeguarding! May the end of days be distinguished from the beginning, and may life's conclusion be the opening of favors. May grace and favor reach me each moment, and forgiveness and mercy be bestowed with every breath, until I return beneath the extended shade, under the raised banner, to the praised Kingdom   AB01954

I beseech Thee by Thy Pen of grace to ordain for me the reward of those who have attained unto Thy presence. O my Lord! Thou art He around Whose name, the Gracious, circle all who are gracious, and around Whose name, the Merciful, circle all who are merciful. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which I have desired from the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy favor.  BH06858

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy path and made known to me Thy way. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and the mysteries of Thy Dominion, and by the hearts that have soared in the atmosphere of Thy love, and by the faces that have turned unto the lights of Thy countenance, to aid me in Thy remembrance and praise and in serving Thy Cause."   BH03010

My God, my God! Thy presence is my hope and meeting with Thee my desire, and serving Thee the yearning of my heart, and laboring in Thy path my wish and my joy and my delight. I beseech Thee by the Word wherewith Thou hast adorned Thy Books and Scriptures to ordain for me the reward of those who have soared in the atmosphere of Thy nearness and given up their spirits in Thy path.   BH03237

Glory be unto Thee, O Lord of all beings and God of all who dwell in the kingdom of names! I beseech Thee by the effulgences of the Daystar of Thy Will whereby the heaven of Thy knowledge and the earth of Thy purpose were illumined, to open before my face, through the key of Thy Most Great Name, the door of bounty and bestowal. Then make me steadfast in Thy Cause and Thy love.  BH09105

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, through which disobedience is blotted out by forgiveness, and wrath is replaced by mercy, and by which Thou doth usher the sinners into the Tabernacle of Thy beautiful clemency, not to abandon me to myself for less than a moment. Sever me not from the cord of Thy loving kindness nor withhold me from the knowledge of Thy Beauty in Thy latter resurrection.  BH01835

Glory be to Thee, O Thou the Goal of the world and the Beloved of the nations! I beseech Thee by the treasuries of Thy knowledge and the repositories of Thy wisdom and that which was hidden in Thy Name, to acquaint Thy servants with that which they have neglected and draw them nigh unto a station wherein they will behold Thy manifestation, Thy power, Thy might and Thy sovereignty.   BH01081

Grant, O my God, that I may not be reckoned among those whose ears are deaf, whose eyes are blind, whose tongues are speechless and whose hearts have failed to comprehend. Deliver me, O Lord, from the fire of ignorance and of selfish desire, suffer me to be admitted into the precincts of Thy transcendent mercy and send down upon me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.  BB00554

Glorified art Thou, O God of Names and Sovereign over all who are in earth and heaven! I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through which the rain of Thy mercy was shed from the clouds of Thy grace, and by the Luminary of Thy bounty which shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy Will, to ordain for me that which shall solace mine eyes, tranquilize my soul and gladden my heart.   BH03696

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy Books, Thy Scriptures, Thy Scrolls and Thy Tablets, and by that which lay hidden therein of the mysteries of Thy knowledge, and by the Sovereign of Names through Whom Thou didst subdue all who are in earth and heaven, to inspire me at all times with that which will draw me nearer unto Thy Name, the All-Merciful.  BH03894

O Lord! O Lord! Illumine their eyes by beholding Thy Lights, refine their consciences by the appearance of Thy Mysteries, and enlighten their hearts by the traces of Thy Names! Suffer them to become the signs of Thy Unity, the banners of Thy Singleness, the Stars of Thy Graces and the Candles of Thy Assemblages;- so that they may arise to serve Thee and be steadfast in Thy Worship.   AB01036

O Lord! He has taken refuge in the cave of Thy help and care, and sought shelter in the protection of Thy preservation and guardianship, and fled to the fortress of Thy safekeeping and defense...and quicken his heart with the sweet fragrances of Thy holiness, and expand his breast with the breezes of Thy companionship, and revive his inner being with the gentle winds of Thy sanctity   AB03315

I beseech Thee by the Name through which the breezes of Thy mercy wafted over Thy kingdom and the fragrance of the garment of Thy Revelation was diffused among Thy creatures, and by the Manifestations of Thy names and the Dawning-Places of Thy attributes, and by Thy Hidden Name whereby Thou hast encompassed what was and what will be, to assist me to mention Thee and to exalt Thy Word.  BH07822

"Glorified art Thou, O Lord my God! I pray Thee, by Him Who is the Day-Spring of Thy signs and the Manifestation of Thy names, and the Treasury of Thine inspiration, and the Repository of Thy wisdom, to send upon Thy loved ones that which will enable them to cleave steadfastly to Thy Cause, and to recognize Thy unity, and to acknowledge Thy oneness, and to bear witness to Thy divinity."  BH08245

When thou hast attained unto My verses and heard My call, say: "My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink from the cup of Thy bounty and nurtured me by the hands of Thy tender care. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, Thy trusted ones, and Thy sincere ones. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Forgiving, the Kind."   BH06356

O Lord, Thou art the Forgiver! O Creator, Thou art the Magnanimous One! Grant, then, a portion of Thy effulgence to Thy yearning lovers, and bestow a ray from the Beloved of the horizons upon the lovers of Thy Face. Bring the wanderers in the desert of separation into the precincts of reunion, and admit those lost in the wilderness of remoteness into the sacred sanctuary of attainment.   AB00076

I ask Thee, then, O my God, to cause him to hearken unto the call of this Firebird in this Abha Paradise, that with his whole being he may come forth for the sake of establishing Thy victory in the kingdom of Thy creation and in the dominion of Thy glory; and that his spirit may be purified from all that hath not been ordained by Thy decree, nor enjoyeth the sanction of Thy good pleasure   BH02781

O Lord! If she hath any good deeds in Thy presence, cause her to return unto Thee and purify the atmosphere of her heart from the clouds of self and desire, and sanctify her from the world and all that hath been created therein, that she may hold fast unto Thee and be severed from them who have disbelieved in God on a day whereon all who are in the heavens and on earth were thunderstruck.   BH00837

O God, my God! This is a pure, refined and delicate reality, deriving illumination from the effulgence of Thy knowledge, receiving bounties from the Word of Thy Oneness, and supplicating to the Kingdom of Thy mercy. O Lord! Prepare for it the means of its growth, make its affairs easy, expand its breast, and make it Thy brilliant sign in those regions and Thy clear evidence in those parts.  AB07175

O Kind One! Make Your friends illumined, make them merciful, make them divine, make them heavenly, make them godly, that each may become, in the rose-garden of oneness, a nightingale of detachment, trilling the anthem of sanctification and explaining the meanings, awakening the heedless, making the ignorant mindful, rendering the unlearned wise, and showing the path of guidance to the lost.  AB04131

"My God, my God! All praise be unto Thee for having strengthened me and enabled me while mankind was in manifest rejection. I beseech Thee by Thy handmaidens who circle round the throne of Thy grandeur, and by the hearts that have melted in their separation and remoteness from Thee, to ordain for this handmaiden of Thine what beseemeth Thy loftiness and sublimity, Thy mercy and forgiveness."   BH06888

My God, my God! Thou seest me clinging to Thee and detached from all else save Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy most sweet call and the movement of Thy Most Exalted Pen, and by Thy hidden mysteries in the Crimson Scroll, to assist me and Thy loved ones who have not been hindered by the doubts of the people nor deterred by veils from turning to Thee and drawing near to the court of Thy grace.   BH02297

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Grant me on that Day a resplendent glory. Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Grant me on that Day a brilliant light. Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Grant me on that Day an exalted loftiness. Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Grant me on that Day a radiant splendor. Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Grant me on that Day great names, for verily Thou art powerful over all things.  BB00004

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I am he whom Thou didst cause to enter into the depths of the ocean of Thy oneness without my knowledge, nay, at the time of my heedlessness. I beseech Thee by the heaven of Thy generosity and the sea of Thy bounty that Thou wilt make me to be of those whose deeds Thou hast accepted in Thy path and whom Thou hast forgiven through Thy grace and Thy bestowals.   BH05679

I implore Thee by Thy Name that hath caused to surge within every drop the oceans of Thy loving-kindness and mercy, and to shine within every atom the luminaries of Thy bountiful blessings and favors, -- I implore Thee to adorn every soul with the ornament of Thy love, that none may remain on Thine earth who hath not turned towards Thee, or hath failed to detach himself from all except Thy Self.  BH06188

My God, my God! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden. I have turned unto Thee, detached from all else but Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy perspicuous Book, and Thy firm Command, and Thy Most Great Name, the All-Glorious, to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for the circling ones around Thee, and the maidens of the court in Thy days, and those who gaze toward Thy horizon.  BH05491

O God of Names and Creator of Heaven! I beseech Thee by the kingdom of Thy Cause, and the might of Thy Revelation, and the divine realm of Thy glory, to send down from the heaven of Thy bounty upon all existence that which will draw them nigh unto Thee, guide them to Thy path, acquaint them with Thy station, cause them to speak Thy praise, and attract them to Thy mighty and impregnable Kingdom.  BH00749

O Lord, Sustainer of the poor! O Thou Who art self-sufficient! I was the essence of poverty, and Thou didst guide me to inexhaustible treasure. I was in want, and Thou didst led me to absolute wealth. I was abased, and Thou didst make me honored in Thy Kingdom. I was lost, and Thou didst bring me to Thy path. I was in darkness, and Thou didst illumine my sight with the light of Thy countenance.  AB09714

O my God! Illumine my heart with the light of Thy Most Glorious Name, whereby the foundations of them who denied Thee on the Day of Judgment were shaken, and aid me to remember and praise Thee, and ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy near servants. O Lord! Make me so steadfast in Thy love that the world shall not prevent me from turning to the sanctuary of Thy Most Glorious Name.   BH06303

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the waters of Thy bounty which flowed from the clouds of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy favors, whereby Thou didst purify whom Thou didst will from the dust of disobedience, that Thou mayest purify my heart from all doubt and misgiving, that I may detach myself wholly from all else save Thee and turn toward the sanctuary of Thy good-pleasure.  BH01956

Send down, therefore, from the heaven of Thy love upon us the water of bounties, and bestow upon us the signs of majesty, for Thou art abundant in favors, mighty in power, possessed of strength and might, the Lord of bounty and beauty. Quicken, then, these decayed bones through Thy grace, O Lord of names and attributes, and illumine these darknesses through Thy favor, O Lord of earth and heaven.   BB00235

O Lord, O Lord! Assist Your servant who is devoted to Your sovereignty, who takes refuge at Your gate, who seeks protection in Your mighty fortress, who clings to Your strong cord, who is attracted to Your manifest light, to serve Your Cause and exalt Your Word and spread Your signs and guide Your creation. Verily You are the Mighty, the Helper, the Confirmer, the All-Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB02487

O my God, my Lord and my Beloved! I have turned my face toward Thee and held fast to the cord of Thy grace and favor, and clung to the hem of the robe of Thy loving-kindness and bounty. Therefore, O my God, disappoint me not of that which lieth with Thee, then send down upon me that which shall detach me from all else save Thee and remind me of the wonders of Thy remembrance at every morn and eve.  BH11700

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me and Thy loved ones unto Thy straight path and Thy mighty Message. I beseech Thee by the lamp of Thy Cause and the effulgences of the Orb of Thy Revelation that Thou make me and those who have believed in Thee to be among those who have no fear nor are they grieved, who speak not until Thou hast spoken and who act according to Thy command.   BH02768

I am that poor one who hath turned unto Thee, O my God. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me from the ocean of Thy riches, nor to withhold from me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones - they whom the hosts of the earth and their ranks could not frighten, and whom its ornaments and veils could not prevent from turning unto Thee and from setting their faces toward the horizon of Thy grace.  BH11614

O Kind Lord! Praise be unto Thee, and glory be unto Thee, for Thou hast given wings of grace to broken-winged birds, and bestowed upon the feeble gnat the strength of the eagle that it might catch the birds of inner meanings. Thou hast made the destitute abundant in blessing and guided the poor to the treasure of wealth and riches. Praise be unto Thee, glory be unto Thee, thanksgiving be unto Thee.  AB06942

I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause whereby the cities of knowledge and wisdom have been illumined, that Thou aid him who hath heard Thy sweetest call and hath answered Thee, O Lord of all beings! O my Lord, ordain for him from the ocean of Thy mercy a portion, and from the stars of Thy bounty a share, and from the revelations of Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting, that which befitteth Thy generosity  BH10299

O my God! O my God! This, Thy servant, hath advanced towards Thee, is passionately wandering in the desert of Thy love, walking in the path of Thy service, anticipating Thy favours, hoping for Thy bounty, relying upon Thy kingdom, and intoxicated by the wine of Thy gift. O my God! Increase the fervour of his affection for Thee, the constancy of his praise of Thee, and the ardour of his love for Thee.  AB09139

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having illumined my heart through the effulgences of the lights of the Day-Star of Thy Revelation, and for having enabled me to turn unto Thee when most of Thy creatures turned away, and for having guided me through the light of Thy knowledge unto Thy path, and for having nurtured me through the hands of bounty and generosity to attain Thy presence in Thy days.   BH01618

O my God! Praise be to Thee for having caused me to hear Thy call from the direction of Thy prison and for having remembered me after I was heedless of Thee. Send down, then, upon me from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will purify me from all except Thee and draw me near unto Thy Most Exalted Self in this Revelation which hath appeared through Thy Most Glorious Name amongst the hosts of creation.   BH01466

My God, my Protector, my Refuge, and my Helper! I commune with Thee in this daylight hour, supplicating toward Thy most exalted horizon, seeking shelter in the most faithful cave, and imploring assistance at Thy luminous threshold. O Lord! These are indeed pious servants who have heard the Call and responded to the Summons, saying Our Lord! We have believed, so forgive our sins and conceal our faults.  AB05506

O my God, my Lord, my Support, the Ultimate Goal of my desire, my Hope and the End of my aspirations! Thou seest me having departed from my homeland, making for Thy most exalted Station and Thy most glorious Horizon, that I might attain presence before Thy countenance, and find the breathings of Thy revelation, and hear the scratching of Thy Most Exalted Pen, and behold the horizon of manifestation  BH07217

My God! Unto Thee be praise and glory, and unto Thee be light and splendor! Thou seest this servant of Thine who hath turned to the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy generosity. I beseech Thee by Thy mercy which hath preceded all created things and by Thy providence which hath encompassed all contingent beings, to give me to drink, from the hand of Thy bounty, the Kawthar of Thy knowledge.   BH06919

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the birds of Thy throne and the doves of Thy Cause that warble their melodies, and by the station which hath been honored by Thy footsteps, and by the light that hath shone forth from the horizon of Thy Revelation, and by the fire which Thou didst cause to speak through Thy power and sovereignty, to assist Thy people in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.   BH00551

My God, my God! Aid him who hath turned unto Thee and discovered the fragrances of Revelation in Thy days, and who hath been so intoxicated by the choice-sealed wine that he hath cast aside vain imaginings, holding fast to the cord of Thy grace and that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book. O Lord! Illumine his heart with the light of Thy knowledge in such wise that the horizons may be illumined thereby.  BH01267

Cause then, O my God, their hearts to be pure, their vision clear, and their hearing keen, that they may hear Thy verses with their own ears and not through the ears of others, and behold Thy beauty with their own eyes and not through the eyes of those besides them, and soar to the Most Luminous Horizon on the wings of their love, and ascend to the Most Exalted Horizon through the fire of their affection  BH01215

My God, my God! This is Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden and a leaf from among the leaves of Thy Tree. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and by Thy Name whereby Thou hast subdued Thy earth and Thy heaven, and by Thy wisdom wherewith Thou hast commanded Thy servants, and by that which hath flowed from Thy Most Exalted Pen in Thy days, to ordain for me that which profiteth me.  BH07478

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the Mount of Thy knowledge, and by Him Who conversed upon it, and by the Tree of Thy utterance and that which Thou didst reveal unto it through Thy power and sovereignty, to ordain for me all the good Thou hast sent down in Thy Book. O Lord! Deny me not from standing before the gate of Thy grandeur, and make me not bereft of the outpourings of Thy days.   BH09593

My God, my God! I have turned toward the horizon of Thy Cause and have directed my face to the lights of Thy countenance. I beseech Thee to assist me to attain such steadfastness whereby Thy servants may stand firm in Thy Cause and arise to serve Thee. My God, my God! I perceive Thy fragrance from Thy utterance, though I have not attained the station whereon the throne of Thy grandeur is established.   BH00319

O God of the worlds! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to make me one of those who soar in the atmosphere of Thy love and are content with whatsoever Thou hast ordained for them through Thy fixed decree, lest my desires and my will hold me back from Thy will. O my Lord! I am that poor one who hastened to the gate of Thy bounty. Write down for me that which shall profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds.  BH00901

O Lord! Make me not of those who act according to what hath been sent down from Thy Most Exalted Pen, yet deny their Lord, the Most High. O Lord! Purify me from the whisperings of those who instill doubts in the hearts of Thy creatures, after Thou hast come with the evidences of Thy sovereignty, the signs of Thy power, the tokens of Thy grandeur, the proofs of Thy lordship, and the attributes of Thy divinity.  BH06472

O my Beloved, God! These are thy servants who have heard thy voice, responded to thy word and accepted thy call. They believed in thee; became assured in thy verses; acknowledged thy proofs; listened to thy evidences; walked in thy path and followed thy guidance; became informed of thy mysteries; comprehended the symbols of thy Book, the signs of thy Scriptures and the glad tidings of thy epistles and tablets   AB00527

O Muhammad! When thou hast attained to hearing Mine verses, say: Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having remembered me in Thy Most Great Prison and for having revealed unto me that which the knowledge of the peoples hath failed to comprehend. O Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. Aid me in that which beseemeth Thy days and enable me to perform such deeds as may win the honor of Thine acceptance.   BH08065

O Providence! Enlighten the minds of the high priests that through their enlightenment they may awaken those who are fast asleep and guide them that have gone astray to the straight Path, until all become gathered beneath the shadow of the canopy of majesty and the tree of mercy, hearken unto that for which the faculty of hearing was called into being, and behold that for which the sense of vision was created.   BH02920

O God, these people are your servants; they turn their faces to you to receive the manifestations of your bounty. Brighten all these hearts and bless their souls. Give them new life to follow your teachings. Let them enter into your kingdom, and bestow on them the blessing of the Holy Spirit. Open their eyes to the light and help them to serve mankind. Thou are a powerful givers and merciful. God bless you all.   ABU0977

O my God! I have turned wholly unto Thee. Through Thy bounty, ordain for me that which Thou desirest. I know not what profiteth me. Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word and by the Supreme Horizon to ordain for me through the Pen of Thy bounty that which shall benefit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds. Verily Thou art the All-Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH05257

Praise be to Thee, O my God, my Lord and my Desire, for having remembered me in days wherein sorrows have encompassed Thee from all directions. I beseech Thee by Thy mercy which hath preceded all created things, by Thy bounty which hath encompassed all contingent beings, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst assist Thy loved ones and chosen ones, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy service.   BH03814

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the heaven was raised up and the Kingdom of Names was adorned and the Divine Lote-Tree spoke forth, to aid me in the service of Thy Cause and enable me to accomplish that whereby my remembrance may endure amongst Thy creatures. Verily Thou art powerful to do what Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH09192

O Lord! Ordain for him whom Thou hast caused to enter Thy paradise that Thou shouldst cause him to enter into the manifestation of Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection through the signs of Thy power, that the fruits of what was created in that paradise might be made manifest on the Day when he shall be presented before Thee in Thy Most Exalted Paradise and Thy Most Glorious Manifestations.   BB00682

O my Lord! Thou seest me turning away from all else but Thee, advancing toward Thee, and hoping for the wonders of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs, which Thou hast made the Manifestation of Thy Supreme Paradise and Thy Most Exalted Heaven, and by the pearls of the shells of the sea of Thy wisdom, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause, and clinging to Thy cord under all conditions.   BH01515

I beseech Thee, by the splendors of the lights of the Sun of Thy unity and the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty, to ordain for me from Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will draw me nigh unto Thee in all conditions...I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, by Thy Most Great Name, the Most Glorious, to make me a servant of Thy Cause, and one who speaketh Thy praise, and one who gazeth upon Thy countenance.  BH05040

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy most excellent Names and Thy most exalted Attributes and by Thy most sublime Horizon and the Manifestation of Thy Cause in the kingdom of creation, to make me detached from all else save Thee and turning toward Thee, speaking in Thy praise and glorification. Then assist me in Thy service that there may appear from me that whereby my mention shall endure in Thy kingdom and Thy dominion.  BH01999

My God, my God, my Goal, my Beloved, the Ultimate Object of my desire and hope! I beseech Thee by Thy bounty wherewith Thou hast adorned existence, to illumine my face with the light of Thy knowledge, mine eyes with the vision of the horizon of Thy revelation, my heart with attraction to the source of Thy wisdom and knowledge, and mine ears with hearkening to Thy most sweet call and the sound of Thy Most Exalted Pen.  BH01011

O Kind Lord! Preserve us beneath the shelter of Thy oneness, that we may remain protected from the conditions of self and passion, and that we may abide secure and guarded like a hidden pearl within the shell of Thy support and grace. In every moment, quicken us with the Breath of the Messiah, and in every instant, make our nostrils fragrant with musk-laden breaths. Grant us success in servitude at Thy Holy Threshold.  AB07563

"O God, my God! I testify to Thy unity and to Thy oneness. I beseech Thee, O Thou Possessor of names and Fashioner of the heavens, by the pervasive influence of Thine exalted Word and the potency of Thy supreme Pen, to aid me with the ensigns of Thy power and might, and to protect me from the mischief of Thine enemies who have violated Thy Covenant and Thy Testament. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Powerful."   BH00827

O my God, my Lord, and my Hope! I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge not to deprive this evanescent one from the wine of immortality. O my Lord and the Desire of my heart! By Thy power, protect this weak one from the cawing of the crows. Illumine him with the light of recognition and keep him ablaze with the fire of Thy love, that all peoples may testify to this light and bear witness to this fire.  BH00807

Suffer me not, O God, my God, to be kept back from the heaven of Thy bounties and the day-star of Thy favours. I beseech Thee by that Word through which Thou hast subdued all things visible and invisible to assist me and to assist Thy chosen ones to accomplish that which shall exalt Thy Cause amidst Thy servants and throughout Thy regions. Do Thou ordain for me, then, every good thing which Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.  BH05703

O God! Refresh and gladden my spirit. Purify my heart. Illumine my powers. I lay all my affairs in Thy Hand. Thou art my Guide and my Refuge. I will not be sorrowful and grieved any more. I will be a happy and joyful being. O God! I will worry no more. I will not let trouble harass me any longer. I will not dwell on the unpleasant things of life. O God! Thou art Kinder to me than myself. I dedicate myself to Thee! O Lord!   ABU1863

My God, my God! Thou seest my poverty and need, my powerlessness and weakness. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy riches and the hosts of the land of Thy power and the manifestations of Thy supreme sovereignty and the outpourings of Thy mighty grandeur to make me in all conditions to hold fast unto Thee and unto Thy loved ones who have arisen to help Thy Cause and who desire the salvation of Thy creation.   BH03517

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy most exalted Beauty, and by the manifestations of the might of Thy sovereignty between earth and heaven, and by the splendor of Thy countenance whereby the dwellers of the realms of eternity were illumined, that Thou withhold me not from the wondrous revelations of the Sun of Thy knowledge, nor deprive me from entering the sanctuary of Thy glorious presence.   BH01208

My God, my God, my Lord and my Support! Illumine the hearts of Thy servants with the light of Thy knowledge, their faces with the lights of Thy countenance, and their temples with the ornaments of the manners Thou hast sent down in Thy Book. O my God and my Quest! Debar them not from the ocean of Thy mercy in Thy days, nor from the dawning-places of the sun of Thy grace, nor from the stars of the heaven of Thy bounty.   BH00387

O God of Names and Creator of Heaven! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Compelling over all things, through which the gate of Thy bounty was opened to all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth, and the Water of Life flowed forth amongst Thy creatures, to make me attracted to Thy verses, detached from all else but Thee, and in all conditions turned toward the horizon from which shone forth the Sun of Thy Manifestation.   BH08964

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst raise up the heavens of exposition and establish the earth of utterance, from which sprouted the ears of wisdom and meaning, that Thou assist me to exalt Thy Word and aid Thy Cause. Withhold me not from the splendors of the lights of Thy countenance, and deprive me not of the fragrances of the garment of Thy Name, the All-Merciful, in Thy days.  BH04736

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and by the light which hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy Revelation, to ordain for me and for those who have believed in Thee and Thy signs every good thing which Thou hast ordained for those of Thy servants who are nigh unto Thee and for those of Thy creation who are sincere.   BH08556

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee, assured by the rain-showers of the heaven of Thy grace, and anticipating the wonders of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne and by Thy mysteries which none save Thyself hath known, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause, such that neither the doubts of the doubters nor the signs of them that turn aside may keep me back from Thee.   BH01830

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having made me to speak Thy praise amongst Thy servants and to arise to serve Thee. O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and by the lights of Thy throne, O Lord of all beings, to make me speak Thy praise and to illumine me with the lights of Thy countenance and to soar in the atmosphere of Thy love. Then write down for me, O my God, that which Thou hast written for Thy chosen ones.   BH08562

O my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and advancing toward the horizon of Thy grace and the heaven of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by Thy Self to assist me in that which befitteth Thy Revelation in Thy days and the exaltation of Thy Cause in Thy lands. Then preserve me from whatsoever may prevent me from drawing nigh unto Thee and standing in service to Thee. Verily Thou art the All-Powerful, the All-Evident, the All-Knowing.  BH04135

O God! O God! Thou dost behold me, how my forehead is laid upon the dust of humility and submission and how my face is covered in the ground of the threshold of thy singleness. O thou my Lord, the Unconstrained! Thou seest me lowly and contrite, supplicating, entreating and imploring toward the Kingdom of thy light by day and by night, that thou encircle us with the eye of thy providence and the glances of the outlook of thy mercifulness.   AB00037

O my God, my God! We are Thy powerless servants; strengthen us with Thy prevailing power inherent in all things. Aid us in that which Thou lovest and art well-pleased with. We are the weak ones; assist us with Thy mighty power. We are the poor; enrich us from the treasuries of Thy bounty, O Thou Possessor of most excellent names. We are the sick; heal us with Thy supreme remedy from these ailments that have overwhelmed our hearts and souls.   AB00244

Glory be unto Thee, O Creator of the heavens and Possessor of all names! I beseech Thee by the revelations of Thy signs and the hidden tokens of Thy favor to make me one of them who have turned unto Thee and turned away from all else save Thee, who have acknowledged Thy singleness and confessed Thy oneness, and who have soared in the atmosphere of nearness to Thee until they became captives in Thy domains and abased among Thy creatures.   BH00565

My God, my God! Deprive not mine eyes from beholding the signs of Thy power in all things, nor mine ears from hearing the movement of Thy Pen in the kingdom of creation. O my Lord! This is Thy Day which Thou hast adorned with the manifestations of Thy grace and the revelations of Thy justice. I beseech Thee not to disappoint Thy servant from gazing toward Thy horizon, nor to withhold those who seek Thee from entering the precincts of Thy mercy.  BH03430

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having made me acknowledge Thy oneness and confess Thy singleness, and hold fast unto what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book. I beseech Thee by Him through Whom the standard of Thy unity was raised in Thy lands and the banners of Thy remembrance among Thy servants, and by His family and His companions, to ordain for me through Thy bounty and generosity that which will solace mine eyes and gladden my heart.   BH01448

Praise be unto Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, for having aided me and made me know Thee and caused me to enter into a station whereat Thy tongue hath spoken, manifest and resplendent, amongst Thy servants. I beseech Thee by the blowing of the breezes of Thy mercy and by the vessels of Thy glory and power which the waves of the hearts of Thy creation cannot impede, to ordain for me that which shall profit me and draw me nigh unto Thee.   BH04257

O my God, my God! These are servants who have rent asunder the veils, torn away the coverings, destroyed the temples of doubts, become free of allusions, and are attracted by the glad tidings. They have abandoned the crooked path and walked the straight path, inhaled the fragrance of the garden of paradise, their eyes were gladdened by witnessing the manifest light, and their hearts overflowed with great joy in this glorious century and noble age.   AB01044

O Lord! Immerse this sinful servant of Thine in the ocean of Thy forgiveness and shelter this hapless wanderer within the sanctuary of Thy pardon. Accept this lowly one at the threshold of Thy oneness and bestow a speedy remedy upon this ailing one. Awaken, O Thou peerless Lord, those who slumber and make the heedless mindful. Give sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf. Give spirit to the hearts and conjoin these souls unto their true Beloved.   AB00912

O Lord my God! I am he who hath detached himself from all else save Thee, and who hath sought Thy tender mercies through the cord of Thy favors and the hem of the robe of Thy Divine mercy. I have turned my face away from all faces toward the countenance of Thy oneness, and have turned aside from every refuge, seeking shelter in the stronghold of Thy unity. Through Thee have I become independent of all things, yearning for Thy bounty and benevolence.  AB00028

O thou who art mentioned before the Wronged One! Thy letter arrived, and each of its letters and words was a truthful witness and an eloquent testimony to thy turning and devotion to the Lord of all beings. We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to manifest for thee that which He hath ordained from the Pen of His decree, to raise thee up through His Name among His servants, and to make thee a helper of His loved ones and chosen ones and His Cause.  BH10385

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy power which has conquered all created things, and by Thy might which has encompassed all existence, to assist me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with, and to enable me to perform good deeds and display praiseworthy character. O Lord! Thou seest the seeker standing before the door of Thy grace - deprive him not of the wonders of Thy bounty and generosity. Ordain for him the good of this world and the next.  BH06512

O God! O Thou Who causeth the light to flow forth and Who didst manifest Thyself upon Sinai and Who dispelleth the darkness of night! I beseech Thee by the Luminary of the horizon of Thy unity... that Thou assist this servant of Thine to spread Thy lights and reveal Thy mysteries and rend asunder the veils from the eyes of Thy servants, until their inner vision is illumined by witnessing Thy most great and brilliant signs from Thy most glorious Kingdom  AB02584

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have desired the wonders of Thy bounty and the manifestations of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and Dominion, by Thy Prophets and Thy chosen ones and Thy Messengers, and by the tears of the sincere ones and the sighs of them that are nigh unto Thee, to assist me in Thy remembrance and Thy praise and in acting according to that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.  BH01324

My God, my God! Thou seest Thy servant who is called 'Ali-Qabli-Nabil turning unto Thee, clinging to Thy cord, and detached from all else but Thee. I beseech Thee to ordain for him that which shall exalt him through Thy name amongst Thy servants and in Thy service throughout Thy lands... I beseech Thee to open before his face the doors of Thy mercy, Thy gifts and Thy favors, and to ordain for him that which shall profit him in every world of Thy worlds.   BH03758

My God, my God! Unto Thee be praise and unto Thee be thanksgiving, unto Thee be bounty and generosity, for having honored me with Thy days and caused me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy Cause, the Manifestation of Thy Self, and the Dayspring of Thy signs, and for having aided me to turn toward Thy most exalted horizon, to hearken unto Thy sweetest call, and to turn toward the lights of Thy countenance, O Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens!   BH01533

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lands wherein Thy remembrance and Thy call were raised up, and by the seat whereon Thy throne was established, and by the fire of Thy Cause whereby the hearts of Thy chosen ones were set ablaze, and by the light of Thy countenance which shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy bounty, to aid all who are on earth to turn unto Thee and return to the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy signs.   BH03162

"My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the oceans of Thy mercy and showers of Thy bounty and the effulgences of the lights of the Orb of Thy grace, to make me so detached from all else save Thee that I may move only through the breezes of Thy will and speak only through Thy bidding. Verily, Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Mighty, the Great."   BH00453

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having strengthened me and caused me to turn toward Thy Cause, from which most of Thy servants have turned away. I beseech Thee by Thy Name which Thou hast made a light unto the righteous and a fire unto the wicked, and by the breezes of the Dawning-place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy verses, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will draw me nigh unto Thee, O Creator of the heavens!   BH03623

My God, my God! How can I remember Thee, after knowing that my remembrance befitteth not the court of Thy might nor ascendeth to the atmosphere of Thy holiness? I beseech Thee, O Thou the Purpose of the world and Beloved of the nations, by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the land and sea and illumined the hearts of creation, and by the power of Thy Pen and the influence of Thy Will, to assist Thy servants in Manshad to turn unto the path of guidance.   BH02995

O my God! I am he who hath turned toward Thee with my spirit, my being, my soul and all that I possess, and have laid my hope, my trust, my will and my desire before the throne of Thy grandeur. Aid me, through Thy bounty and grace, to achieve what Thou desirest. Thou knowest that I know not what profiteth or harmeth me. Ordain for me that which is best for me. Verily Thou art the Witness, the All-Knowing, the Compassionate, the All-Informed, the All-Wise.   BH05207

I beseech Thee, O God of the Seen and Unseen, and Educator of all existence, by the Dawning-Places of Thy revelation and the Manifestations of Thy Self, and by the Word whereby the hearts of Thy chosen ones were attracted and the hearts of Thy loved ones were set ablaze, to aid Thy servants to return unto Thee, to turn repentant to Thy gate, to humble themselves before the revelations of Thy grandeur, and to acknowledge the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance.   BH00511

I beseech God to open the gates of guidance before the faces of all who dwell on earth and in heaven, to illumine foreheads with resplendent lights from the Most Glorious Kingdom, and to quicken souls with fragrant breaths wafting from the gardens of the Supreme Concourse, that minds may be guided to the Center of Lights in the Heaven of Mysteries, the Hidden Realm, the most concealed Divinity, the Orb of the Sun of Glory shining upon the verdant earth and dust   AB00244

I commune with Thee, O my God and my Beloved and the Goal of all who have detached themselves from all else but Thee, beseeching Thee to send down from the clouds of the heaven of Thy holy oneness that which will stir the realities of those who are freed from all save Thee and sanctified from whatsoever is besides Thee, that the faces of Thy loved ones may shine forth amongst Thy creatures and the breasts of those devoted to Thee may be dilated through Thy signs.   BH10192

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink the Kawthar of Thy utterance from the hand of Thy bounty and for having reared me beneath the canopies of Thy mercy. I beseech Thee, O Illuminator of the horizons and Speaker on the Day of Meeting, by Thy Name through which discord was transformed into concord and difference into unity, to assist me in Thy remembrance in such wise that the wolves of the earth and its wicked ones will not frighten me."   BH01858

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having remembered me from Thy Most Exalted Horizon and for having turned toward me when I was in the hands of the enemies. I beseech Thee by the Lamp of Thy Cause, which Thou hast preserved from the tempests of oppression and tyranny, to strengthen me in all conditions and make me firmly attached, holding fast and turning toward the lights of Thy countenance, O Thou in Whose grasp are the reins of all who are in earth and heaven.  BH00055

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the tongue of all things has been loosened in praise of Thyself and through which the door of Thy knowledge has been opened to every heart - the Name which Thou hast called Thy Most Exalted Name and Thy Later Manifestation in the garment of Thy Most Glorious Beauty - to purify my heart from all allusions, veils and indications that stand between me and the recognition of the Manifestation of Thy Self.  BH02633

O my God! Thou hast exalted Thyself through Thy Most Great Manifestation evident in the horizon of Thy verses and Thou hast glorified Thy being through the Beauty of Thy most gracious Name manifest in the realm of Thy perspicuous signs. Blind are the eyes that behold not the traces of Thy sovereign power which has embraced all daysprings of existence and deaf are the ears that hear not Thy call in this Promised Day. Great is their loss in not attaining that special gift.  AB03607

O my God! O my God! These are Thy sincere servants, constant in Thy servitude and worthy of every gift. Assist them through Thy divine power, Thy merciful might, and Thy heavenly outpourings. Grant them an exalted station of truth, cause them to speak praise in great gatherings, loose their tongues with proofs and arguments in mighty assemblies, spread through them the banner of sanctification in those regions, and make their faces radiant with light among the righteous.   AB01953

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the leaves and fruits of the Tree of Thy Cause, and by the Word through which the earth and all created things therein were illumined, to ordain for me that which shall be a light before my face and a companion to me in all the worlds of Thy worlds. O my Lord! Thou knowest what is in my heart and what I desire of the wonders of Thy grace. I beseech Thee to make me content with what Thou hast ordained for me through Thy Will and Purpose.  BH11631

O Lord! Make souls sanctified from thoughts of name and fame, and make them aware of the nameless and traceless realm. Make them the essence of sanctification, make them pure detachment, make them free from all attachments and purified from all imaginings. Make them pure and radiant, make them bright and illumined. Make them gaze upon another world and cast them into different thoughts. Thou art the Powerful and Mighty, and Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, and the All-Seeing.  AB05988

My God, my God! Adorn the heads of Thy loved ones with the crown of trustworthiness and detachment, their temples with the ornament of justice and righteousness, and their hearts with the raiment of unity and harmony. I beseech Thee, O my God and the God of the Kingdom of Names, to ordain for Thy loved ones that which will exalt them among Thy creation and cause them to be adorned with Thy virtues, whereby the horizons of Thy servants' and creatures' existence may be illumined.  BH00823

O Thou Whose exalted Threshold is my haven and my refuge, Whose hallowed Sanctuary is my shelter and my abode! I entreat Thee, with a heart aglow with the fire of Thy love, and with eyes streaming with tears in my longing to attain Thy presence, in my yearning to gain admittance into the Kingdom of Thy glory, and in my desire to taste the sweetness of faithfulness to Thee, to graciously aid this servant through the breaths of Thy holiness and the delight of communion with Thee.  AB00174

I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, by Thy most beautiful names and by the Dawning Place of Thy knowledge through which the breezes of revelation were concluded and the banners of divine unity were raised, to assist me to act according to what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book and according to that which will manifest the station of man in creation. Verily, Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is no God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH11841

O Lord, my Hope, my Refuge, my Shelter, my Asylum, and my Haven! How often do I commune with Thee, O my God, in the depths of night, and Thou art the One Who heareth those who call. How often do I supplicate Thee with humility, contrition and hope that Thou wouldst kindle and illumine the fire of guidance in the Sinai of the hearts of humanity, and cause them to drink from the clear waters that stream from heaven, whereby the thirst of the hearts of the chosen ones may be quenched.  AB01525

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me, for having made me know Thee, and for having caused me to hear Thy verses and Thy days. I beseech Thee by the Word through which the dead were raised up, the trumpet was sounded, and the mountains were moved, to make me one of those whom neither the might of the world hath deterred from drawing nigh unto Thy Most Great Name, nor the clamor of men hath kept back from turning toward Thy Name, the Most High, the Self-Subsisting.  BH00046

O Lord! O Forgiver! Grant freshness and grace to the friends, like flowers and sweet herbs, through the drops of the cloud of bounty, and cause the birds of the meadow of truth to sing and warble with the melody of the Kingdom of Oneness. Quench the thirst of those who are parched in the desert of longing with the living waters in this exalted Paradise, and cause the moths of love and affection to circle round the brilliant lamp and burn their wings in the heat of its luminous flame  AB08724

"Aid me, O my God, to recognize Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy Cause, the Dayspring of Thy signs, and the Source of Thy inspiration. O Lord! I am poor and Thou art the All-Possessing, the All-Powerful. O Lord! Deprive me not of the gift that hath shone forth from the horizon of Thy bounty, nor of this cup proffered by the hands of Thy favors. Draw me nigh unto Thee, detached from all else but Thee. I testify that Thou doest what Thou pleasest and ordainest what Thou willest."  BH00893

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the blood of Thy lovers which was shed in Thy path, and by the cry of the yearning ones which was raised in their separation from Thee, and by Him Who hath borne tribulations in His love for Thee until He was imprisoned in the most desolate of lands through what the hands of the heedless among Thy creatures have wrought - not to render me deprived of the breezes of these days wherein Thou hast manifested Thyself through Thy Most Great Name unto all nations.   BH00874

I beseech Thee, O Ultimate Goal of the near ones and Utmost Hope of the sincere ones... to ordain through Thy Most Exalted Pen for him who is named Karim the good of the hereafter and of this world. O Lord! Thou seest him standing in service to Thy friends and speaking Thy praise amongst Thy servants. O Lord! Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Generous, the Ever-Forgiving, the Merciful. Ordain for him that which will exalt him through Thy Name and draw him nigh unto Thee in all conditions.   BH03503

I testify that the choice wine of Thy praise hath taken hold of me and the Salsabil of Thy utterance hath intoxicated me. I beseech Thee by Thy glance and by Thy call, and by the Command whereby Thou didst subdue all creation and attract all beings, to send down upon me from the heaven of Thy bounty that which will purify me from the doubts of those who have denied Thy Manifestation, disputed Thy signs, turned away from the Dayspring of Thy attributes and the Source of Thy commandments.   BH06268

O Lord, O Lord! I call upon You and supplicate You and implore before You and beseech You to assist Your servant who longs for the light of the horizons, who is firm in the Covenant, whose eyes overflow with tears from being enkindled by the fire of yearning for the Kingdom of splendor in the unseen realm of eternity, the gathering place of meeting, and the world of the divine cloud. Verily You are the Powerful, the Mighty, the Generous, and verily You are the Merciful, the Compassionate.   AB05040

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lands that were honored by Thy footsteps, and by the mountains whereon were pitched the tents of Thy majesty, and by the dawning hours which were blessed with the breezes of Thy Revelation, and by the tent which the winds did not shake, and by the lamp of Thy Cause, O Thou Who causeth the morns to break, to ordain for me through Thy pen of grace that which shall profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds and draw me nigh unto Thee in all conditions.  BH06652

O Lord, O Merciful One, O Generous One! Lead Thy servants to the wellspring of eternal life, and fill them abundantly from the sweet flowing waters. Admit Thy servants into the highest paradise, and intoxicate them with the wine from the cup whose mixture is of camphor. Illumine their hearts with the lights of Thy mercy, brighten their eyes, make their souls the dawning-places of the inspirations of the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful, and make their spirits the recipients of divine knowledge.  AB08395

O my God, in the gathering place of adversity, offer this soul a cup overflowing with suffering and affliction! Give him to drink from the very brim of the chalice of calamity. Ordain that this neck is worthy of the chains and fetters of captivity for thy sake and this throat is worthy of the sword. O God! Let this soul cast his body to the ground and shed his pure blood on the earth for the sake of Thy love. This is a true prayer, a befitting supplication for those that are servants of God.  AB01959

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me, made me know Thee, and taught me Thy straight path. I beseech Thee by Him through whose advent the heights of knowledge and wisdom were adorned...to assist me in setting right my affairs and the affairs of Thy servants. O my Lord! Thou seest me turning to Thee, detached from all else but Thee. I beseech Thee by the Word of Unity, by Thy pervading Will and Thy all-encompassing Purpose, to ordain for me the good of this world and the next.   BH03905

Glory be unto Thee, O Thou Guide of the seekers of the Sought One and Magnet of the lovers to the Presence of the Beloved! Praise be unto Thee for Thou hast guided every thirsty one to the Fountain of Life and every ailing one to the Merciful Physician. Illumine the heart of this Thy servant with the light of Assurance, make firm his feet in the straight Path and Manifest Road, and suffer him to drink from the Clear Spring and the Water of Tasneem. Verily, Thou art the Clement and the Merciful!  AB09723

Glory be to Thee, O my God and my Purpose, Who art sanctified above my knowledge, my remembrance and my praise! I beseech Thee by the Word through which all things were attracted and hastened to the ocean of reunion with Thee, O Lord of Names, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise and in steadfastness in Thy Cause. Then write down for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones. O Lord! Illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and my face with the lights of Thy manifestation.   BH05186

O my God, my Lord, my Support! Thy servant testifies at this hour that Thou hast desired for Thy servants naught save their purification from the desires of self and passion, and their adornment with the light of righteousness and piety. O Lord! Aid Thy servants to draw nigh unto the court of Thy glory and to turn unto the lights of Thy countenance. Verily Thou art the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth. There is none other God but Thee, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH11665

O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having made known unto me the Manifestation of Thy Self. I beseech Thee, then, not to withhold from me that which Thou hast ordained in this Most Great, Most Mighty Revelation, and leave me not to myself, but make me to voice His praise and celebrate His remembrance and turn toward the Kaaba of His good-pleasure and the sanctuary of His glory. Verily, Thou art powerful to do what Thou willest, and Thou art, in truth, the All-Compelling, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH01702

My God, my God! I testify that before Thy Most Great Name all names have bowed down, and before Thy Command the earth and heaven have submitted. I beseech Thee by the light that shineth forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy will, and by the Word whereby Thou hast illumined the hearts of Thy loved ones, to number me among such as have not been hindered by the censure of the censurers from turning to the lights of Thy countenance, nor by the scorn of the aggressors from drawing nigh unto Thy horizon.  BH04821

O Lord, O Lord! Guide the people and awaken them from sleep and deliver them from blame and grant them a portion of guidance and illumine their sight by witnessing Thy greatest signs and aid them to righteousness and save them from self and passion and provide them with heavenly sustenance and quicken their hearts with the breeze that wafts from the gardens of Thy Most Glorious Kingdom. Verily Thou art the Bestower, O Lord of earth and heaven, and verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Bestower.   AB02896

I beseech Thee by Thy hidden Name and Thy treasured Secret to lift from all eyes the veils of doubt and suspicion, that every seeing one may behold Thee seated upon the throne of glory and grandeur, and every discerning one may see Thee established upon the seat of power and loftiness, and may perceive the signs of Thy manifestation in Thy days, and may know the mysteries of Thy Cause in Thy time, and may follow Thee in that which Thou hast commanded through Thy grace in Thy firm Book and decisive Speech.   BH00570

"O my Most Exalted Lord! Lord, Lord! Illumine their eyes to witness the signs of Your Most Exalted Word, gladden their hearts with the holy fragrances of Your Most Glorious Paradise, perfume their nostrils with the sweet-scented breaths wafting from Your Most Exalted Paradise. Assist them in Your love and knowledge and service to Your Cause and the exaltation of Your Word and the spread of Your wisdom and the explanation of Your mysteries and the manifestation of Your signs and the dawning of Your lights."  AB01031

O Lord, these thy servants have set their expectant faces towards thy gate, with their hearts sanctified and their spirits purified by thy love, with their souls gladdened and their ears attentive, their minds perceptive and their eyes overflowing with tears. Lord increase their love for thee and their knowledge of thee. Exalt their station and elevate their rank that they make become the inheritors of Thy Kingdom, may supplicate Thy heavenly realm and draw liberal effusions from the grace of Thy Godhead.   AB00911

Glory be to Thee, O Lord of all beings and Educator of all created things! I beseech Thee by Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones, and by those who bear the throne of Thy grandeur and whom Thou hast made the repositories of Thy mysteries, the treasuries of Thy knowledge, the dawning-places of Thy revelation, the daysprings of Thy guidance among Thy creatures, and the manifestations of Thy signs in Thy dominion, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which shall profit me in the next world and in this.   BH02365

My God, my God! Thy most sweet call hath set me ablaze, and separation from Thee, O Lord of all beings, hath caused my death. I beseech Thee by the breezes of Thy Revelation which Thou hast made the water of life for all created things, and by the traces of Thy Most Exalted Pen and the fruits of the Sadratul-Muntaha, to make me strong through Thy strength and powerful through Thy power, such that the hosts of the earth shall not prevent me from turning to Thyself nor from beholding the lights of Thy countenance.   BH03427

O my Lord! Let me hear Thy melodies wherewith Thou didst sing in the paradise of Thy words, and deny me not that which is therein, and deprive me not of the sanctuary of Thy holy precincts. O my Lord! I am he who secluded himself without leave from Thy presence, and my self and my desires occupied me from recognizing Thy Beauty, the Exalted, the Transcendent, the Holy, the Mighty. O my Lord! Deprive me not of that which is with Thee, then honor me with Thy presence, then enable me to acknowledge Thee and Thy verses  BH00544

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets, Thy chosen ones, Thy Messengers, and Thy loved ones whom the doubts of the world and the signs of the nations did not prevent from turning unto Thee and holding fast unto Thy cord. O Lord! I have turned toward Thee, and I ask Thee by the ocean of Thy utterance and the rain of Thy mercy to aid me in that whereby my remembrance may endure amongst Thy servants and my name in Thy lands. Then write down for me from Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of the hereafter and of this world.  BH11625

O thou who hast turned to the loving Lord! Raise thy hands in supplication to the threshold of the compassionate Lord and say: O Lord, Succorer of the poor! O Thou Who art free from all need! I was absolute poverty, and Thou didst guide me to inexhaustible treasure. I was in want, and Thou didst lead me to absolute wealth. I was abject, and Thou didst make me honored in Thy Kingdom. I was lost, and Thou didst bring me to Thy path. I was in darkness, and Thou didst illumine my sight with the light of Thy countenance.  AB09714

O my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the signs of Thy grandeur to aid me in all conditions to remember Thee, to praise Thee and to serve Thy loved ones. Glorified art Thou, O my God and the God of all things, my Beloved and the Beloved of the hearts of the chosen ones! I beseech Thee by the hearts that have melted in their love and ardor for Thee, and by the hearts that have been consumed in their separation from Thee, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds.   BH01371

O merciful and forgiving God! You are the Lord and Creator. Cover our faults, bestow Your gifts, set aside justice and show grace, give life and make us steadfast, remove estrangement and grant unity, let us drink from the chalice and taste the wine of the Supreme Concourse, make us intoxicated and enraptured, make us prosperous and flourishing, illumine the chambers of hearts and fill the garden of souls with roses and jasmine, grant the confirmations of the Abha Kingdom and bestow the victory of the Supreme Concourse.  AB06776

O God of the Kingdom, Lord of Kings and Sovereign of the Realm of Might! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance, after the passing of all things, to make me in all conditions turned toward Thee and detached from all else but Thee. Then give me to drink from the pure water of Thy bounty's Kawthar, through which whoso attaineth soareth in Thine atmosphere, casteth away all else besides Thee, and is seized by the wine of verses such that neither the might of the world nor the clamor of nations frightened him.   BH02609

O Thou peerless Lord! Nurture these righteous souls within the shelter of Thy bounty and free these lovers from attachment to all except Thyself. At every turn refresh them from the dew-filled rainclouds of Thy bounty and with each breath waft unto them the fragrances of musk, that their hearts may grow in spirit and their souls in love, and that like unto a raging fire, they may blaze with Thine ardour. Verily, Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful. And Thou art the All-Seeing, the All-Merciful, the Bestower of all things.  AB09716

"My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have sought the ultimate goal and the highest aim - the station wherein Thy signs and clear tokens have appeared. O my Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and directing myself to Thy court, and I desire to drink the Kawthar of Thy knowledge from the hand of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of what lieth with Thee, nor to deprive me of what Thou hast ordained for those near unto Thee among Thy servants and the sincere ones among Thy creation."  BH01433

O Thou through Whose Name all things were attracted and through Whose love the hearts of them that dwell in the kingdom of names were consumed! I beseech Thee by the tears of them that are nigh unto Thee in their separation from Thee, and by the sighs of the sincere ones in Thy days, and by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy grace, to make me detached from all else save Thee, holding fast unto the cord of Thy loving providence, steadfast in Thy remembrance and in the service of Thy Cause  BH03668

"My God, my God! My outer and inner tongue, my limbs and members, my veins and the very hairs of my body bear witness to Your unity and oneness, and that You are the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden. O my Lord! I beseech You by the fragrances of Your revelation to ordain for me that which will cause me to turn toward the lights of Your countenance, to speak in praise of Your Self, to hearken unto the traces of Your Most Exalted Pen and Your sweetest call, and to arise to serve Your Cause, O Lord of all humanity."  BH04091

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs and by the pearls hidden in the treasuries of Thy Most Glorious Pen to make him who seeketh Thee a bird soaring in the atmosphere of Thy nearness, gazing toward Thy horizon, and speaking with wisdom and utterance amongst Thy creatures. Then reveal unto him, O my God, the oceans that lie concealed within Thy verses and hidden within Thy words, that the wine of mystic knowledge may so intoxicate him that he will speak that whereby the hearts of the followers of all religions will be attracted.  BH00630

Glory be unto Thee, O Lord my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst cause the rivers of Thy holy oneness to flow, and didst send down from the clouds of Thy mercy the outpourings of Thine eternal might, to have mercy upon this poor and needy one who hath entered the shore of Thy riches, and this lowly one who hath arrived at the wellspring of Thy glory, and this weak one who hath clung to the cord of Thy power, and this ignorant one who hath hastened from every direction until he entered the city of Thy knowledge.  BH01276

I beseech Thee, O my God, at daybreak and at eventide, at noontide and in the depths of night, and call on Thee with my tongue, my heart, my spirit and my consciousness. I press my face in the dust and rub my brow against the earth in my yearning and lamentation toward Thy manifest horizon and Thy luminous dawn, imploring Thee to strengthen Thy servant, who is confirmed by Thee, who acknowledges Thy oneness, who is attracted to Thy mercy, enkindled with the fire of Thy love, and whose breast is dilated by the light of Thy knowledge.  AB00058

O Lord of eternity and Sovereign of nations and Beloved of the world! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name through which the ocean of Thy meeting surged and the fragrance of Thy raiment was diffused, to make me successful in Thy remembrance and praise, and to strengthen me in Thy service and obedience. O Lord! Deprive me not of the oceans of Thy bounty and the suns of Thy favors. I beseech Thee to ordain for me, through Thy Most Exalted Pen and Thy Will that dominates all things, that which will profit me in this world and the next.   BH00789

Glorified art Thou, O my God! My tongue beareth witness to Thy unity, my heart to Thy singleness, and my limbs and members to Thy lordship which hath encompassed all created things. I beseech Thee therefore, O my God, by Thy Name through which Thou hast caused them that love Thee to soar to the atmosphere of the glory of Thy mercy, and hast caused them that long for Thee to ascend unto the heaven of Thy holy bounty, and hast drawn them that seek Thee to the seat of Thy nearness and presence, not to leave me to myself and to my desires.   BH00524

My God, my God! Praise and thanksgiving be unto Thee, and glory and splendor be upon Thee, for having sent down unto me from the heaven of Thy will that which hath raised me to the kingdom of Thy utterance and the heaven of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by the Kawthar whereby Thou didst quicken Thy servants and creatures and didst manifest that which lay hidden within Thy knowledge, to make me one of them who have not been heedless of Thy remembrance and whom the hosts of vain imaginings have not kept back from turning unto Thee in Thy days.  BH04103

Praise be unto Thee, O Sovereign of earth and heaven! I testify that the earth hath been ennobled by Thy footsteps, the atmosphere hath been perfumed by Thy breaths, the sun hath been illumined by the light of Thy countenance, the heaven hath been raised up by Thy will and hath smiled at Thy manifestation, and the world hath quivered with longing to meet Thee. O Lord! I beseech Thee by the tribulations that have befallen Thee to inscribe for me, by Thy Most Exalted Pen, that which befitteth the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy generosity.   BH00416

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the exaltation of Thy Most Great Word and the power of Thy Most Exalted Pen, and by the earth honored by Thy footsteps, and by the trees over which passed the breezes of Thy Revelation, and by the springs that flowed before Thy face, and by the mountains that attained the fragrance of reunion with Thee, and by the tabernacles of Thy glory raised by Thy command for Thyself, to assist Thy servants to return unto Thee and to repent before the door of Thy grace, and to that which will benefit them and elevate their stations.   BH02492

My God, my God! Thou seest these, a group of thy loved ones who have turned to Thee with radiant faces and hearts overflowing with love and devotion, and breasts expanded by Thy greatest signs, and ears attentive to the call, and tongues speaking forth remembrance and praise. O Lord! Guard them in the cave of Thy protection, watch over them with the eye of Thy care, distinguish them with the outpouring of Thy grace, preserve them in the preservation of Thy guardianship, and make them signs of Thy love and pages of Thy knowledge and words of Thy manifest Book.   AB02179

O Kind Lord! Make this poor one noble, and make this lowly one exalted in the glorious Kingdom, and make this needy one a brilliant lamp, and make this weak one a helper and protector. Grant ocean waves to a drop, and bestow the radiance of lights upon an atom. Grant infinite freshness and delicacy to the dry stone, and make the black rock into a ruby of Badakhshan. Make the withered earth verdant and flourishing, and breathe new life into the frozen heart, so that in utter helplessness it may find heavenly power, and in complete poverty it may seek eternal wealth.  AB06168

O my God and my Beloved! Praise be unto Thee for having caused me to recognize the Manifestation of Thy Self, the Dawning-Place of Thy Beauty, and the Dayspring of Thy Revelation. I beseech Thee not to shut me out from Thy gate which Thou hast opened unto all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth. O my Lord! Aid me to love Thee in such wise that I may be content with Thy good-pleasure, moved by Thy command, and in all conditions be turned toward the realm of Thy grace and bounty, immersed in the ocean of Thy knowledge which hath appeared through Thy Most Great Name   BH00780

O Kind Lord! You are more kind to me than I am to myself, and Your love is greater and comes before. Whenever I remember Your bestowals, I become joyful and hopeful. If I am troubled, I find comfort of heart and soul. If I am sick, I seek eternal healing. If I am fearful, I become assured. If I am hopeless, I become hopeful. O Lord of the Kingdom! Make my sorrowful heart assured and strengthen my weak spirit and make my feeble nerves powerful. Enlighten my eyes and make my ears hearing that I may hearken to the melody of the Kingdom and seek eternal joy and delight.   AB11931

Lord! They are Thy sincere servants, Thy tested bondsmen, Thy faithful captives, constant in their servitude to Thee, steadfast in Thy Covenant, submissive to Thy sovereignty, humble before Thy proof, speaking Thy praise, gazing upon Thy gracious countenance, walking Thy straight path, and enduring painful torment out of love for Thy radiant beauty and longing to meet Thee in the Paradise of Delight. Lord! Revive their hearts, purify their souls, expand their breasts, ordain for them Thy presence, strengthen them with hosts, and aid them against every relentless enemy.  AB02824

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to Thy path and for having given me to drink, from the hand of Thy bounty, the Kawthar of Thy utterance. I beseech Thee, O Creator of the world and Educator of the nations, by Thy Most Great Name through which the mysteries of what was and what shall be were revealed and the might of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, was made manifest, to make me enkindled with the fire of Thy love, attracted by Thy verses, and holding fast to the wisdom whose decrees Thou hast sent down in Thy Scriptures and Tablets.  BH08018

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst clothe all created things with the garment of existence, and through which Thou didst adorn whomsoever Thou willest with the ornament of Thy most beautiful names amongst the concourse of creation, that Thou shouldst not deprive me of the clouds of Thy mercy and the heavens of Thy grace, nor leave me forsaken among Thy creatures. Take my hand with the sovereignty of Thy will and purpose, and illumine the eye of my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and recognition, and my outward eye to behold the lights of Thy beauty.   BH03870

Glorified art Thou, O Light of hearts and Fire of souls! I beseech Thee by Thy Beloved Name, through which the blood of lovers was shed in separation and livers were melted by the fire of longing, to assist Thy chosen ones to stand firm in Thy Cause in such wise that love of life shall not prevent them from drawing nigh unto Thee, O Lord of attributes and Revealer of verses. Then send down upon them, O my God, from the heaven of Thy grace that which befitteth Thy generosity and bounty, that they may abandon all they possess and arise to that which beseemeth their station.   BH00550

O my God! I draw near unto Thee through souls in whose hearts the fire of Thy love is kindled, whose tears flow in their separation from Thee, whose patience is exhausted in their yearning for Thy Kingdom, who have detached themselves from all else save Thee, who supplicate and beseech at the gate of Thy oneness. Their hearts are sanctified from every mention save Thy mention, their spirits purified from attraction to aught but Thee, for Thou, O my God, hast caused them to enter the fountain of sanctity and cleansed them with waters sent down from the heaven of detachment.  AB00127

O Lord! Thou hast removed the veil and cast aside the covering, revealing Thyself throughout all regions, illumining the horizons, opening our inner and outer vision, granting us the sight of those lights, unstopping our ears and causing us to hear Thy call both secret and manifest, expanding our breasts, rending asunder for us the veils concealing the mystery of Thy Cause, kindling within the glass of hearts the lamps of light, and raising the oppressed from the depths of abasement and degradation to the summit of knowledge, making them leaders and making them inheritors.  AB00683

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy confirmation to turn unto Thy horizon, to hearken to the scratching of Thy Pen and to witness Thy signs. I beseech Thee by Thy fire whereby Thou didst guide them that drew nigh unto the Sinai of Thy knowledge and gave them to drink the Kawthar of proof from the hand of Thy bounty, and by the mysteries of the ocean of Thy wisdom and the pearls of the sea of Thy knowledge, that Thou wilt aid Thy servants to be fair in Thy Cause, that they may hear the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree with their ears and behold its fruits with their eyes.   BH00957

"Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy power whereby Thou didst subjugate the winds and send down the verses and cause the sun of Thy beauty to shine from the horizon of Thy will - whereby the faces of Thy chosen ones were illumined by its radiance - to send down upon me from the heaven of Thy bounty a mercy from Thee and from the cloud of Thy mercy a blessing from Thy presence. Then set right, O my God, all my affairs, for Thou art the Lord of grandeur and majesty. Ordain for me the good of this world and the next, for Thou hast power to do what Thou willest."  BH02512

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the station honored by Thy footsteps, and by the Names which have won the glances of Thine eyes of grace, and by the House wherein was raised Thy most sweet call and the most exalted scratching of Thy Pen - by Thy might, the lovers have been consumed by the fire of remoteness in Thy days. The force of separation hath so seized them that their spirits have well nigh departed from their bodies. Look, O my God, upon those who seek Thee with the eyes of Thy mercy, and deliver them from the torment of remoteness through the grace of Thy nearness.   BH01296

My God, my God! I have heard Thy call and hastened unto Thee. I have inhaled the fragrance of Thy garment and have departed from my homeland until I attained unto Thy presence. Thou hast enabled me, O my God, to partake of the Kawthar of Thy reunion before the manifestation of Thy Cause and Thy Revelation. I beseech Thee, O Creator of the heavens and God of all names, by Thy Name through which Thou hast revealed Thyself unto all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth, and hast guided Thy servants to the ocean of Thy bounty, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in all Thy worlds.   BH00625

"My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having strengthened me, made me recognize Thee, and caused me to hear when Thy sweetest call was raised and the pen of Thy most exalted Pen moved. I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through which the ocean of divine knowledge surged in the contingent world and the banner of Thy remembrance was raised amidst all religions, to make me aflame with the fire of Thy Sacred Tree, illumined by the lights of the Sun of Thy Revelation, uttering Thy praise, soaring in the atmosphere of Thy love, standing before the gate of Thy bounty and generosity, and serving Thy Cause."  BH01290

O my God! I beseech Thee by the oppression of the Source of Justice whom Thou seest lonely amidst the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures and the transgressors among Thy servants, to protect me from the allusions of them who have turned away from Thee and have denied Thy signs and have risen in tyranny in Thy days. Then make me of them whom neither cares have seized at the surging of the ocean of Thy joy nor sorrows at the manifestations of Thy gladness, that I may give unto the people the glad-tidings of Thy tidings, that every possessor of spirit may rejoice in Thy remembrance and praise.   BH01607

My God, my God! These are servants who have walked the path of guidance, avoided error and transgression, turned to the Kingdom of the Most Beautiful Names, hastened to the shade of the pavilions of glory in the blessed spot, and have drunk the purest wine from the elegant cup passed round by the hand of grace in the gathering of reunion. My God, my God! The eyes have been solaced by beholding the Beauty, necks have bowed before the might of the Glory, ears have delighted in hearing the melodies in the verdant gardens, and hearts have been gladdened by the outpouring grace from the Kingdom of mysteries.  AB05369

My Lord! Aid me and Thy sincere servants in serving at Thy exalted threshold, in devotion to Thy merciful presence, and in humility before the gate of Thy oneness. O Lord! Make firm my steps upon Thy path, illumine my heart with a brilliant ray from the kingdom of Thy mysteries, revive my spirit with the wafting of a breeze blowing from the gardens of Thy pardon and forgiveness, gladden my heart with a fragrance diffused from the meadows of Thy holiness, make my face radiant in the horizon of the heaven of Thy unity, and make me one of Thy sincere servants and of Thy steadfast and firmly-rooted bondsmen.   AB03308

O Creator of the heavens and Lord of Names! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast opened unto Thy creation the doors of meeting with Thee, and caused the sun of Thy loving kindness to shine upon all within Thy dominion, to make me steadfast in Thy love, detached from all else save Thee, standing firm in Thy service, gazing toward Thy face, and speaking forth Thy praise. O Lord! Aid me in the days of the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dawning-Place of Thy Cause to such extent that I may, through Thy grace and bounty, rend asunder the veils and burn away the coverings through the fire of Thy love.   BH00409

O Thou kind God! To me Thou art kinder than myself, and Thy love is more abundant and more ancient. Whenever I am reminded of Thy bestowals I am made happy and hopeful. If I have been agitated I obtain ease of heart and soul. If I am sick, I gain eternal health. If I am disloyal, I become loyal. If I have been hopeless, I become hopeful. O Thou Lord of the Kingdom! Cause Thou the rejoicing of my heart; empower my weak spirit and strengthen my exhausted nerves. Illumine Thou my eyes: suffer my ears to become hearing, so that I may hearken to the music of the Kingdom and attain to the joy and happiness everlasting.  AB09728

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having rained down upon my heart from the clouds of Thy bounty and for having given me to drink, from the hand of Thy bestowal, the choice wine of Thy utterance. I beseech Thee by the Word which, when it shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy knowledge, all the peoples of the earth inhaled therefrom the fragrance of Thy loving-kindness and that which guideth them to Thy Most Great Announcement and Thy firm and mighty Cause, to assist me in that which shall cause me to be mentioned in the precincts of Thy holiness and shall draw me nigh unto the court of Thy glory."  BH02864

O God! O Bestower of gifts and Remover of veils, Thou Who aidest in guidance! Verily Thy servant, who supplicates unto Thee and implores in the darkness of blackest night unto Thy most exalted Kingdom, hath been overtaken by the intoxication of the wine of Thy love. The fire of faithfulness hath been kindled within his ribs and vitals by the breathings of Thy holiness. He hath turned to Thee with a throbbing heart and flowing tears, hoping that Thou wilt embrace him with the tender mercies of Thy compassion and remove from his sight every veil, that he may behold the lights of Thy oneness and witness the signs of Thy unity.  AB03894

My God, my God! These are souls who have found tranquility in Thy remembrance, become good through Thy knowledge, become content with Thy favors, become attracted by Thy fragrances, become ignited by the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy Lordship, turned their faces toward Thee, placed their trust in Thee, and supplicated before Thee. Lord! Make them tall trees from which fruits scatter, rising stars from which lights spread, sanctified souls from which traces appear, and spirits made joyous by Thy favors night and day. Verily Thou art the Giver, verily Thou art the Generous, verily Thou art the All-Merciful, the Most Merciful.  AB01867

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the ships of Thy wisdom sailed upon the ocean of Thy knowledge, and the spheres of the heaven of Thy decree revolved by the Pen of Thy ordainment, to assist Thy loved ones and Thy friends even as Thou didst assist those who are nigh unto Thee among Thy creation and the sincere ones among Thy creatures. Then inscribe for them that which shall profit them in every world of Thy worlds. O my Lord! Thou beholdest them soaring in the atmosphere of Thy nearness and sailing upon the sea of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee not to disappoint them at the door of Thy mercy.   BH01453

Thou, Thou art our Lord! Send down upon this one who seeketh refuge at the gate of Thy oneness, from the outpourings of the heaven of Thy glorious unity, and attract him through the holy fragrances of Thy singleness. Expand his breast through the verses of Thy unity, illumine his sight through witnessing the signs of Thy sanctity, loose his tongue in Thy remembrance, raise his call in Thy praise and glorification, perfume his nostrils with the sweet scents of Thy knowledge, and make his soul fragrant with the aroma of Thy bounty. Verily, Thou art the Giver, the Compassionate to all who are faithful to Thy Covenant and Testament.  AB10113

O Thou kind Lord! We are servants of Thy Threshold, taking shelter at Thy holy Door. We seek no refuge save only this strong pillar, turn nowhere for a haven but unto Thy safekeeping. Protect us, bless us, support us, make us such that we shall love but Thy good pleasure, utter only Thy praise, follow only the pathway of truth, that we may become rich enough to dispense with all save Thee, and receive our gifts from the sea of Thy beneficence, that we may ever strive to exalt Thy Cause and to spread Thy sweet savours far and wide, that we may become oblivious of self and occupied only with Thee, and disown all else and be caught up in Thee.  AB00073

O my Lord! I am a sinner, and Thou art the Forgiver. I am intoxicated with the wine of heedlessness; grant me awareness. I am occupied with the mention of this sorrowful world; bestow upon me an ear that may hear the melody of the Concourse on High, hearken to the song of the nightingale of Thy sacred gardens, and perceive the notes of the thankful birds with an attentive ear. O Lord! Remove the veil from mine eyes that I may witness Thy greatest signs and observe the subtle mysteries of Thy supreme glory. Grant life to my heart, and bestow upon my soul a spirit and sweet fragrance worthy of this mighty century and befitting this glorious age.  AB08559

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee, and directing myself to the Dawning-Places of Thy Revelation, the Sources of Thine inspiration, the Repositories of Thy knowledge and the Fountainheads of Thy commandments and laws. I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the world and guide the nations, and by Thy sovereignty that hath encompassed all things, and by Thy signs that have pervaded earth and heaven, and by those whose hearts were melted in Thy love and who gave up their spirits and all they possessed in Thy path, not to deny me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and destined for Thy trusted ones.   BH00615

O my Lord! Deprive me not of the breezes of the dawn of Thy manifestation and Thy presence, and distance me not from the revelations of the glory of Thy mercy and favors. O my Lord! Cause me to know Thy beauty, then raise me unto that atmosphere wherein are heard the melodies of the birds of eternity, which Thou hast sanctified from the knowledge of all created things save such as have detached themselves wholly from all else but Thee and have laid hold on the hem of Thy wondrous and mighty bounty. O my Lord! Illumine my sight for the vision of the lights of Thy beauty and purify my heart for the recognition of Thy supreme and most great Self.   BH00428

O my God! O my Lord! This servant who is intoxicated with the brimming cup of Thy love, and who, at the feast of longing, with goblet in hand, yearns for Thy path and seeks Thy beauteous face, is detached from all else but Thee and restless in his love for the One Beloved. Kindle in his heart and soul a fire from the love of the Abha Kingdom, that he may find the true rose-garden, and light within the glass of his breast a ray from the effulgent splendors of the Sun of Truth, that he may witness the revelation of the lights of the Mount of Manifestation. Raise up a wave from Thy Most Great Ocean that he may discover the hidden and preserved pearls.  AB08396

O my loving God! Through pure bounty didst Thou breathe into me the spirit of life, bestow upon me the robe of existence, give me to drink from the wellspring of guidance, cause mine ears to hear the call of 'Am I not your Lord?', make me to hear the cry of 'Glorified be my Lord, the Most Glorious!', grant me shelter beneath the Tree of Unity, give me to drink from the cup of the Covenant, single me out through Thy special favor, and make me successful in achieving a mighty triumph. Now, O my Lord, illumine this lowly one with manifest knowledge, and cause this sorrowful one to shine bright in the luminous horizon. Thou art the Bountiful, the Kind.  AB09428

O Pure Lord! O Loving Beloved! These friends are bewildered by Thy countenance and wandering in Thy path. They have freed themselves from every bond and attached themselves to Thy love. They are detached from the world and its peoples, enchanted and captivated by Thy love. They seek no remedy for any pain save Thy grace, and pursue no balm for any wound in Thy path. They ever yearn for Thine endless bounty and beseech Thine infinite favors. O Merciful Bestower! Make these lowly ones mighty, transform these captives of Thy love into princes, raise them to the ethereal realm, and establish them upon the throne of everlasting glory in their self-sacrifice.  AB06410

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the sun of Thy wisdom and by the penetrating power of Thy Most Exalted Word, and by Thy might, O Possessor of Names and Creator of heaven, to make me confirmed in Thy remembrance and praise. O Lord! Thou seest me clinging to the cord of Thy bounty and holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy grace. I beseech Thee to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones whom nothing whatsoever could hinder from turning toward Thy Most Exalted Horizon. Verily Thou art the Omnipotent to do as Thou willest. There is no God but Thee, the Mighty, the All-Conquering, the Powerful.   BH07942

O Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens! I beseech Thee by those whom neither the world nor its ornaments, nor its beauty, nor its glory, nor its might, nor its riches prevented from hearing Thy call, who said Yea, yea, O Lord of the mighty throne and the exalted seat! and whom the attraction of the call seized in such wise that they hastened to the place of sacrifice out of love for Thy beauty, that Thou make me in all conditions to stand firm in Thy service, to speak Thy praise, to gaze toward Thy horizon, to hearken unto the wonders of Thy verses, to hold fast unto the cord of Thy care, and to cling to the hem of the robe of Thy grace and bounty.  BH05026

My God, my God! I know not what hath kept me distant from the court of Thy nearness, and what hath prevented me from entering the gate of Thy majesty. By Thy glory! My heart yearneth for Thy presence and my face is set toward Thy countenance. I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and the manifestations of Thy power, O Lord of all humanity and Sovereign of names, to assist me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with, and disappoint me not of that which lieth with Thee and that which I have desired through Thy bounty, Thy grace and Thy favors. Verily Thou art the One with power over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH09208

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning unto Thee, clinging to the cord of Thy bounty, holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy grace and favour. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name through which Thou hast subdued the world and its peoples, and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy mercy and the splendors of the orb of Thy grace, and by Thy Prophets and Thy chosen ones, and by Him through Whom the breezes of revelation were stilled and the inspirations of divine grace were ended, to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy trusted ones whom neither the treasures of the world could withhold from turning unto Thee nor the ascendancy of nations from drawing nigh unto the court of Thy holiness.  BH04620

O my God! O my God! Verily, those servants whom Thou hast confirmed by Thy sovereignty, guided by the light of Thy proof, and shown the fire of Thy love kindled in the tree of Thy knowledge, have turned toward the right valley of the blessed spot in the Sinai of Thy knowledge. Lord! They are thirsty and parched - quench their thirst from the rain pouring from the clouds of Thy mercy. They are wandering in the desert of Thy love - guide them to the threshold of Thy holiness in the center of Thy divine grace. Make their eyes illumined by witnessing Thy signs, their ears delighted by hearkening to Thy words, their breasts dilated by beholding Thy beauty, and their hearts purified by the outpouring of Thy knowledge.  AB08748

O God of Names and Creator of Heaven! Thou seest Thy branches and what they seek in Thy love and Thy good-pleasure. Among them are those who have clung to the cord of Thy grace, and those who have held fast to the hem of Thy mercy, and those who yearned to attain Thy presence and have been blessed with Thy bounty, and those who have left their homelands out of longing to visit Thy countenance. I beseech Thee, O Lord of Eternity and Sovereign of Nations, by Thy Most Great Name, to assist them in that which they seek in Thy love and Thy path. Then grant them the cup of Thy presence and the chalice of reunion with Thee, and draw them nigh unto Thee that their eyes may be gladdened and their faces illumined thereby.   BH00740

O God of earth and heaven, Lord of the world to come and of this world! We testify to that whereunto Thy tongue hath testified in the Most Exalted Horizon, and we acknowledge that whereunto Thy Pen hath confessed. We beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the stars in the heaven of Thy wisdom to aid us to stand firm in Thy Cause and to strengthen us in that which beseemeth Thy days. O Lord! We are consumed by separation from Thee and our hearts are melted in our remoteness from Thee. We perceive the fragrance of Thy manifestation yet know not from what place the fragrance of Thy garment wafteth, nor where the rustling of the Tree of Thy Cause and the murmur of the waters of Thy loving-kindness are heard.   BH00684

O my God, my God! I am he who hath acknowledged Thy singleness and Thy oneness, and hath testified to that which the Tongue of Thy grandeur hath testified. I have turned unto Thee, hoping for Thy grace, beseeching Thy generosity, and seeking Thy bounty. O my Lord! Withhold not from me that which lieth with Thee. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and the sun of Thy clear signs, and by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued all names in Thy kingdom, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy service, and active in that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book. O my Lord! Make me not deprived of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones. Verily Thou art God, there is none other God but Thee, the Almighty, the Powerful.  BH06850

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward the heaven of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy grace, detached from Thy servants and Thy creation. I am he who, O my God, hath acknowledged that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Books. I testify that Thou art God, there is no God but Thee. Thou hast ever delivered Thy servants through the arm of Thy power from the pit of idle fancies and vain imaginings, and Thou wilt ever save them through Thy sovereignty and protect them from the oppression of men through Thy might and power. I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds and Deliverer of the nations, by Thy Name through which was manifested that which was hidden in the eternity of eternities and concealed from the eyes of men, to assist me in all my deeds.  BH07776

"O Most Glorious Beloved! O Peerless Loved One! We have lifted our hearts from both worlds since we raised the banner of Thy love. We have turned our faces from the world and all therein since we found Thy heart-attracting countenance. We have closed our eyes to all else since we opened them to Thy beauty. O True Beloved! Cast a ray into the hearts and manifest a gleaming in the souls, that we may become free from every bond and be entirely captivated by Thee, that we may become flames of the Covenant and stars rising from the dawning-place of the light of the signs of unity, and become lights of the Kingdom of detachment, springs of guidance and fountains of piety and angels of the Supreme Concourse. I swear, O Lord, confirm! O Forgiver, forgive! O All-Forgiving One, grant forgiveness!"  AB03236

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy might and Thy grandeur, Thy power and Thy sovereignty, and by the Kawthar which hath flowed from Thy Pen, and by the light which hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy bounty, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the doubts of the ignorant nor the clamor of every remote learned one may keep me back. O Lord! Open before my face the door of Thy knowledge and illumine my heart with the light of Thy grace. Then write down for me that which Thou hast written for them that are near unto Thee among Thy servants. Verily, Thou art He Who hath stood before all faces and hast manifested that which was hidden, treasured and concealed from Thy servants and Thy creation. Verily, Thou art the Powerful over what Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Protector of those who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH11765

O my God, my Adored One, my Object of worship! Thy Cause is a light that the hands of the world's oppression are powerless to extinguish, and Thy love is a fire that the oceans of the world cannot cool or quench. By Thy will the ocean of knowledge surgeth and the ships of Thy wisdom sail upon it. Thou art the King of bounty and the Lord of the Day of Recompense. Deprive not Thy servants of the waves of the ocean of Thy gifts, and grant them victory through the hosts of Thy power and might. O Forgiver! Thou art He Whose generosity the sins of His servants could not obstruct or withhold, and Thou art He Who hath ever concealed and desired not the shame of Thy servants. Today the world is seen to be heedless. Grant awareness to all existence of the wonders of Thy generosity and guide them, that all who are on earth may turn to Thy straight path and receive their portion from the ocean of Thy knowledge.   BH00763

My Lord, my Hope, and the Ultimate Goal of my desires! These are servants who have taken refuge in Thy mighty shelter and have sought Thy lofty protection. They have supplicated to Thy great Kingdom and have beseeched Thy glorious Dominion, humbling themselves at the threshold of Thy Oneness, imploring at the court of Thy holy Divinity, beseeching Thy mercy, seeking from Thy bountiful favors that Thou mayest answer their prayers and hearken to their call. Do Thou expand their breasts through the verses of Thy unity, illuminate their sight with the witnessing of the lights of Thy divine singleness, delight their ears with the hearing of Thy words, quicken their hearts with Thy sweet fragrances, and comfort their spirits through the descent of the waters of Thy manifestation. O Thou Who didst manifest Thyself on Sinai, Who sendeth down the pure water, Who unfoldeth the written scroll! Verily, Thou art the Bestower, the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving.  AB08093

O our Most Exalted Lord and our Most Glorious Beloved! The fire of ardent love has been kindled in our beings, the tribulations of sorrow have intensified, the winds of tests have risen, and the seas of trials have surged. Protect us in the most impregnable fortress and guard us, through Thine all-seeing eye, from the evil of enemies. Admit us into the stronghold of Thy protection, O Protector of the weak! Cause us to enter with truth and to depart with truth, unfurl over us the banner of Thy great mercy, gather us beneath the shadow of Thy most exalted Word, and make firm our steps in Thy Covenant, O Cleaver of the seed and Creator of the seed! Make us signs of Thy oneness among the people and words of detachment among humanity, bearers of Thy hidden mysteries in the hearts of the chosen ones and guardians of Thy manifest verses in the highest horizon. Through us spread abroad Thy sweet fragrances, exalt through us Thy Word, and make us among Thy sincere servants.  AB05429

Glory be unto Thee, O God of existence and Knower of the seen and unseen! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Hidden and Promised One, through which the ocean of Thy knowledge surged, the fragrance of Thy raiment wafted, and the gate of Thy presence was opened to all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth, to assist me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy signs. O my Lord! I am he whom vain imaginings have withheld from the horizon of Thy certitude and the doubts of men have barred from the ocean of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by Thy Self to enable me to turn unto Thee and to turn away from all else besides Thee. O my Lord! Thou art the Generous, the One endowed with great bounty. Drive not this poor one from the door of Thy bestowal, nor this deprived one from the depths of the ocean of Thy oneness. Forgive him through Thy grace and bounty. Verily Thou art the Munificent, the Generous, and verily Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful.   BH01137

O kind Lord, O Thou Who art merciful and compassionate! Illumine this gathering with the light of Thy love, and quicken these souls through the breaths of the Holy Spirit. Bestow heavenly radiance and confer the greatest gift. Send down divine confirmations and grant spiritual revelations. Enlighten the eyes with the light of guidance and make the hearts like unto a blooming garden through Thine infinite bounties. Give the greatest glad-tidings unto the spirits and glorify the souls with Thy most great favor. O Lord! We are poor--bestow upon us the treasures of Thy Kingdom. We are lowly--make us mighty in Thy realm. We are homeless--grant us shelter and refuge in Thy protection. We are seekers--guide us through Thine endless favors. We are silent--grant us eloquent speech. We are powerless--bestow upon us the might of Thy Kingdom. O Lord, O Forgiver! Overlook our failings, grant Thy gifts, pardon our sins, teach us heavenly ways. Thou art the Giver, Thou art the Bestower, Thou art the Kind One.  ABU0088

My God, my God! Thou seest this servant turning toward Thy horizon, directing his face to the lights of Thy countenance, soaring in the atmosphere of Thy nearness, firm in Thy oneness and singleness, and holding fast to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book. O Lord! Thou seest the tears of mine eyes in my separation from Thee, and my sighs in my remoteness from Thy presence. I know not, O my Aim and my Beloved, what Thou hast ordained for me from Thy Most Exalted Pen, by Whose movement Thou hast subdued the earth and heaven. Hast Thou ordained for me to attain Thy presence and to stand before the gate of Thy grandeur, or hath Thy binding command and Thy firm decree prevented me therefrom? I beseech Thee, O Lord of all being and Educator of the seen and unseen, by Thy command whereby the rivers flowed, the trees bore fruit, and the seas surged, to make me in all conditions speak Thy praise and stand firm in Thy Cause, in such wise that the limbs of Thine enemies may quake and the hearts of those who have denied Thee and Thy signs may be perturbed.  BH01060

O Lord! We are weak; strengthen us. O God! We are ignorant; make us knowing. O Lord! We are poor; make us wealthy. O God! We are dead; quicken us. O Lord! We are humiliation itself; glorify us in Thy Kingdom. If Thou dost assist us, O Lord, we shall become as scintillating stars. If Thou dost not assist us, we shall become lower than the earth. O Lord! Strengthen us. O God! Confer victory upon us. O God! Enable us to conquer self and overcome desire. O Lord! Deliver us from the bondage of the material world. O Lord! Quicken us through the breath of the Holy Spirit in order that we may arise to serve Thee, engage in worshiping Thee and exert ourselves in Thy Kingdom with the utmost sincerity. O Lord, Thou art powerful. O God, Thou art forgiving. O Lord, Thou art compassionate.  ABU0826
