"Ordain for me, O my God, that which will solace mine eyes and gladden my heart."  BH08101

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having guided me unto Thy manifest and evident path   BH10417

I beseech Thee to assist me to serve Thy Cause, to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee   BH07816

O Lord! Assist the heedless to turn unto Thee and to arise before the gate of Thy grandeur.  BH06401

Admit us into Thy Kingdom of holiness and quicken us through the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  AB06736

O Lord of Names and Creator of Heaven! Deliver Thy loved ones from the prison of the enemies.   BH10507

I beseech Thee, O my God, to aid Thy servants unto that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.   BH05518

We beseech God to aid all to serve His Cause and to do that which He loveth and is pleased with.   BH08508

O God, send down upon her that which will comfort her. Verily, Thou art powerful over all things.  AB09041

O Lord! Bestow upon me mercy from Thy presence, for verily Thou art the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.  BH11493

I beseech Thee not to disappoint me in attaining that which Thou hast ordained for Thy trusted ones.  BH07781

O Thou merciful God, confirm us by Thine invisible hosts and reinforce us through Thy heavenly angels.  BH10138

We beseech God to illumine them with the light of justice and adorn them with the ornament of fairness.   BH05522

Then deliver us from the prison of self and passion, and from this prison, through Thy power and sovereignty   BH02840

to ordain for Thy loved ones that which will draw them unto Thee and preserve them from all else besides Thee   BH08259

Then beseech God that He may bring about a reunion between us and you, for verily He hath power over all things.  BH11007

I supplicate and implore in the Holy Shrine and the Most Exalted Station, seeking for you boundless aid and favor  AB10753

O Lord! Open for him a way out, establish for him a path, and light for him a brilliant lamp in the glass of life.  AB08488

O my Lord! Strengthen the structure of the Hands of Thy Cause, reinforce the backs of the defenders of Thy Covenant  AB03073

I beseech Thee...to open through the key of Thy Most Great Name the doors of Thy grace and bounty unto all peoples.   BH10075

O Lord! Ordain for those who have desired Thee and turned to Thee in Thy days every good thing that was in Thy Book.   BH09859

I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of what lieth with Thee. Verily, Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful ones   BH10417

I beseech Thee to make my deeds worthy of Thy gracious acceptance and adorned with the ornament of Thy good-pleasure   BH07692

O Lord! Renew the innermost hearts and purify the consciences through these manifestations at which sight is dazzled.  AB05369

Send down, then, from the heaven of Thy bounty that which will gladden the hearts of Thy servants and Thy handmaidens.   BH10425

gather Thy loved ones in assemblies of remembrance and praise, and admit Thy servants into gatherings of light and glory  AB04233

Grant her the swift wings of Inspiration so that she may soar toward the realm of the exalted ideals and universal Love!   ABU2665

O Lord! Assist his sons to serve Thy Cause and his children to arise in Thy remembrance and praise amongst Thy creatures.  AB01291

O Lord! Assist me with Your confirmations, make me successful through Your aids, and make me one of Your sincere servants   AB06005

My God, my God! Adorn the thrones of the world with the manifestations of Thy justice and the dawning-places of Thy grace.   BH05446

And, finally, I beg of Thee by the light of Thy countenance to bless my affairs, and redeem my debts, and satisfy my needs.  BH03629

The servant beseecheth his Lord to strengthen you and draw you nigh and aid you to accomplish what He loveth and approveth.  BH01539

Aid them with the hosts of divine favors in all regions and support them with the legions of inspiration in all continents.  AB02867

I hope you will bring to an end this trip of yours with the utmost comfort and pleasure and without any untoward accidents.  ABU3312

to ordain that I may in all conditions remain content with what Thou hast through Thy bounty and generosity ordained for me   BH06718

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Most Exalted, that Thou unite us with Him and grant us the blessing of attaining His presence   BH06591

O Lord! Illumine her heart with the light of Thy knowledge, then deliver her from the sea of sorrow by the hands of Thy grace.   BH05075

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Self to make me content with what Thou hast ordained for me in Thy Book  BH09037

Send down Thy blessings upon the people of Baha who were not deterred by the contingencies of fate from turning toward Thy face   BH09373

Ordain for them that which will draw them nigh unto Thee, and make them to know Thy path, Thy balance, Thy testimony and Thy proof.  BH10526

I beseech Thee...to send down upon Thy servants that which will draw them to the Most Exalted Horizon and bring them nigh unto Thee   BH06590

O my God, my God! Aid this handmaiden of Thine unto that which Thou lovest and art pleased with, then pour forth upon her patience.   BH05197

Then send down upon him from the heaven of Thy bounty a blessing from Thy presence, O Lord of Names and Creator of earth and heaven!   BH07471

I beseech Thee not to deprive me of the wonders of Thy favors. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Exalted, the Forgiving, the Generous   BH06644

Then ordain for me in the kingdom of Thy Cause that whereby my remembrance may endure, my being may profit, and my heart may rejoice.   BH08945

Now, O my Lord, illumine this lowly one with manifest knowledge, and cause this sorrowful one to shine bright in the luminous horizon.  AB09428

I beseech Thee...to comfort him in his loneliness, to quench his thirst, to cool his burning anguish, and to remove his great distress.  AB09039

I beseech Thee by the Name...to ordain for Thy chosen ones that which befitteth the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy generosity   BH10633

I beseech Thee to open before my face the door of Thy blessings and loving-kindness. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the All-Generous  BH11047

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to change her sorrow into His remembrance and praise, His verses and evidences, His nearness and presence.  BH01790

The servant beseecheth his Lord to assist the travelers in what behooveth them on roads and paths, by sea and land, on mountains and hills   BH03782

In any case, night and day we are occupied with thoughts of you, and in the Holy Shrine we are accustomed to offering prayers for your good  AB09272

assist him with the hosts of Your holy Kingdom in private and in public, and aid him with the armies of Your angels in the realm of creation  AB06474

Then set right, O my God, all our affairs and ordain for us what is best for us. I testify that Thou knowest better than we what benefits us   BH04987

O Lord! Grant glad-tidings to the souls and bestow joy upon the hearts. Give light to the eyes and grant divine radiance to the inner vision.  AB02796

I beseech Thee...that Thou mayest make me content with whatsoever Thou hast ordained through the Most Glorious Pen upon the Tablet of Decree.   BH08843

O Lord! Aid Thy loved ones who dwell in the land of exile yearning for the breezes of union with Thee and the fragrances of nearness to Thee.   BH08857

I beseech Thee by Thy Name...that Thou mayest send down upon Thy loved ones that which will tranquilize their hearts and illumine their faces.   BH07681

I beseech Thee by Thy presence to honor me with meeting Thee and draw me nigh unto the ocean of Thy reunion, O Thou Goal of them that know Thee.   BH07640

"We have desired to make mention of thy mother from among the people of the household and to give her the glad-tidings of God's loving-kindness..."  BH04935

assist us with the hosts of Thy unseen realm, aid us with the army of Thy might and power, quicken our hearts with the sweet savors of Thy holiness  AB03605

to send down upon Thy handmaiden from the heaven of Thy bounty that which shall solace her eyes, gladden her heart and bring tranquility to her being  BH06701

If Thy grace reaches us, a drop becomes an ocean, an atom becomes a sun. If deprived of Thy favors, one remains bereft and portionless of everything.  AB07068

Therefore, beseech ye God that ye may become the Flying Eagle in the horizon of divine unity and become three luminous stars in the manifest horizon.  AB09992

Then send down upon her, O my God, from the wonders of Thy mercy that which will comfort her heart, tranquilize her being, and give rest to her body.   BH03667

O God, my God! Thou beholdest Thy servants in the abyss of perdition and error; where is Thy Light of Divine Guidance, O Thou the Desire of the world?  BH07469

I beseech Thee to open, with the finger of Thy power, a door for Thy handmaiden that will guide her to what befits Thy greatness and Thy sovereignty.   BH05948

I pray that they may unloose their tongues, may supplicate and implore continually, and may seek confirmation from the threshold of the one true God.   AB01742

O Lord! Thou art the Generous, the Ancient in Bounty. Assist Thy loved ones to whatsoever Thou willest - verily Thou art the Mighty, the All-Choosing.   BH10043

I beseech Thee...to cause Thy loved ones to drink of the wine of Thy oneness, and enable them to voice Thy praise and glorification amidst Thy creatures   BH10287

I beseech God that He may cause those pure souls to attain the court of divine manifestation in the luminous realm and be honored with the eternal meeting.  AB12016

We beseech God to sanctify thee and the handmaidens of that land from whatsoever is unworthy of His days, and to grant that which befitteth His generosity.   BH06994

This is a prayer that was revealed at the beginning of the month of fasting. Blessed is the one who offers it to God, his Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH00154

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, by Thy Most Great Name, to ordain for me that whereby my eyes may be consoled, my heart illumined and my breast dilated  BH07217

Send down Thy blessings upon the Hands of Thy Cause, whom the oppression of the oppressors hath not deterred from turning toward the heaven of Thy providence.   BH06190

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by him and by his exile and his imprisonment, to send down upon such as loved him what will quiet their hearts and bless their works.  BH07659

to ordain for Thy loved ones the good of this world and the next, and to make them of those whom nothing besides Thee can occupy from Thy remembrance and praise  BH07443

I beseech Thee... to send down upon Thy chosen ones and Thy trusted ones, from the heaven of Thy bounty and the clouds of Thy generosity, the rain of Thy mercy   BH03118

"My God, my God! Leave me not alone, for Thou art the Best of inheritors. My God, my God! Forsake me not in solitude, for Thou art the Forgiving, the Merciful."   BH03828

O God, my God! Thou seest these wayward servants of Thine lost in the wilderness of error; where is Thy Light of Divine Guidance, O Thou the Desire of the world!  BH03965

Ordain for me the good things that are with Thee, and nourish me from the Table Thou didst send down out of the clouds of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy favor.  BH09864

I implore Thee to change the sorrow of Thy loved ones into joy, and their powerlessness into might, and their abasement into glory, and their poverty into wealth.   BH06257

O my Lord! Thou seest me awaiting the wonders of Thy bounty and the manifestations of Thy mercy. I beseech Thee to ordain for me the best of what lieth with Thee.   BH05135

I beseech Thee by the mysteries concealed within Thy knowledge and treasured within Thy Book to aid me in Thy remembrance and praise and in arising to serve Thee.   BH04786

O Lord of the worlds and Creator of the nations! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to make me, in all conditions, a servant of Thy Cause, a helper of Thy Faith  BH03687

O my Lord! Change Thou the hardship of Thy loved ones into ease, their difficulty into comfort, their abasement into glory, and their sorrow into the greatest joy   BH11389

My God, my God! Aid me to serve Thy Cause... I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs and by the Crimson Ark to assist me to serve Thy loved ones among Thy servants.   BH10039

I beseech Thee...to make me one of the pure ones who have been set ablaze by the fire of Thy love and whose hearts have been consumed by the heat of Thy remembrance.  BH07901

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by that which lieth with Thee to make them the manifestations of Thy glory in Thy land and the daysprings of Thy power throughout Thy realm  BH06255

Muhammad-Javad had a brother in Istanbul who was supplicating and entreating God to become rich. The Blessed Beauty prayed on his behalf and promised him prosperity.  ABU1612

O God! I beseech Thee... to grant permission unto me and unto them that have believed in Thee and in Thy signs, to enter Thy paradise through Thy bounty and Thy mercy.  BB00347

O Lord! We are weak - strengthen us through Thy power; and poor - enrich us through Thy gift; and lowly - exalt us at the gate of Thy oneness in the shadow of Thy Word  AB04233

My Lord, one of Your maidservants supplicates to You not to leave her alone and grant her the joy of righteous offspring. Verily You are the All-Wise, the All-Knowing.   AB02828

We beg of Thee, O Providence, to show Thy way unto all men, and to guide them aright. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Seeing.  BH00005

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me all the good that was inscribed by Thy Most Exalted Pen in Thy Books and Tablets. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.  BH11108

I beseech God to aid thee to assist His Cause, to enable thee to voice His praise, and to ordain for thee in the Kingdom that which He hath ordained for the sincere ones.  BH07172

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name and Thy Most Ancient Light to ordain for me the reward of those who have attained unto Thy presence and drawn nigh unto Thee by Thy leave   BH11112

so that sorrow and sadness may vanish, joy and happiness descend, despondency and hopelessness be changed into cheerfulness and trustfulness, and courage take the place of fear  AB06676

Then send down, O my God, upon him who hath turned unto Thee and acted according to that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book, a blessing from Thee and a mercy from Thy presence  BH03851

Ordain Thou for me, O my God, the good of this world and the world to come, and grant me what will profit me in every world of Thy worlds, for I know not what will help or harm me.  BH04744

O Lord! Adorn those on earth with the light of trustworthiness and godliness, then aid them to return to the gate of Thy grace and to turn in repentance to the court of Thy glory.   BH04323

O Lord! Aid Thy loved ones and him whose name was mentioned before the Throne, that he may arise to celebrate Thy praise amongst Thy creatures and glorify Thee amidst Thy servants.   BH08847

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having guided me unto Thy path and revealed unto me that which shall endure as long as Thy names endure. Ordain for me that which is best for me.   BH10493

through the confirmations of the Supreme Concourse is my triumph and the exaltation of Thy Word achieved. Through the divine confirmations of Thy most glorious Kingdom is my victory  AB03075

Make Thy loved ones therein to be waves of the sea of Thy oneness, hosts of the armies of Thy knowledge, trees of the garden of Thy bounty, and fruits of the tree of Thy providence.   AB04390

I beseech Thee...to make me one of the Hands of Thy Cause among Thy creatures, that I may arise to serve Thy Cause and make mention of Thee with wisdom and utterance in Thy kingdom.   BH10364

and upon those who entered Thy most exalted Paradise and Thy most glorious Ridvan and who drank from the cup of Thy love in the most sublime heights and the most sheltered habitations  BH05800

O God of Names and Creator of heaven! I beseech Thee by Thy grace not to withhold from me the outpourings of the ocean of Thy knowledge, nor to banish me from the shadow of Thy favor.  BH06968

Rejoice in that We have answered thy prayer and supplication and forgiven those for whom thou didst seek forgiveness from the ocean of thy Lord's mercy, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing.  BH02642

O Lord! Aid him with the hosts of the seen and the unseen, draw him nigh unto Thee, and ordain for him through Thy grace and bounty that which shall endure in Thy Books and Thy Tablets.  BH10294

May you be under the protection of the Blessed Beauty and be aware of the mysteries of that Mighty Sovereign. May you be sweet-tasted every evening and bright and radiant every morning   AB06208

Whoso is unable to do this, let him say only Glorified be God; this shall assuredly suffice him. He is, of a truth, the all-sufficing, the ever-abiding, the forgiving, compassionate God.  BH00001

O my God, my God! Thou seest me prostrate in the dust of humility and self-effacement...O Lord! Ordain for me the chalice of supreme martyrdom and ascension to the proximity of Thy mercy  AB03312

O Lord! Make them successful in all matters and affairs, make them signs of Thy bounty amongst all peoples, aid them with hosts from Thy holy Kingdom, O Ever-Living, Self-Subsisting One!   AB06472

O God! Endear this distinguished and loving maid servant of God in Thy Kingdom, bless the members of her household and encircle her respectful husband with the Glances of Thy Mercifulness!  AB12780

O my God, my God! These are servants who have turned their faces purely toward Thy gracious countenance...O Lord! Make them signs of Thy mercy among all creatures and lamps of Thy guidance  AB06010

O my Lord! Send down upon me that which is best for me. You know what is within my soul while I know not what is within Your Self. Verily You are the Knower of the consequences of all things.  BH11842

O my Lord! I am weak: yet have I laid hold upon Thy Name, the Powerful, the Mighty. Do Thou destine for me by Thy grace that which shall profit me both in this world and in the world to come.   BH06685

Blessed is the handmaiden who has attained to faith and acted according to what she was commanded by the All-Merciful... Be thou grateful and say: Praise be to Thee, O Quickener of the worlds!   BH09806

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee...to ordain for Thy loved ones the good of this world and of the world to come. Then open before their faces the doors of Thy grace and blessing.   BH10856

O my God! O my God! These are servants whom no blame of any blamer has deterred from Thy love...Lord! Strengthen them, make them successful, spread through them the divine traces in all regions   AB00753

Make them speak Thy mention and display Thy nature and character. Make them transform seekers into lovers of Thy countenance. Let them give the water of life to the thirsty and bring them to life.  AB00540

I beseech Thee by Him Who stood with supreme steadfastness before the faces of all mankind, that Thou mayest ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of this world and the world to come.  BH11291

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen, by the ocean of Thy generosity and the heaven of Thy grace, to ordain for me all the good Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.   BH06890

Ordain through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will make known to them Thy path and will guide them to Thy way and will teach them what Thou hast desired for them through Thy generosity and grace.   BH06199

I swear by the Ancient Beauty that that one who was attracted by the holy fragrances gazes upon you from the Most Glorious Kingdom and awaits the appearance of signs of the flame of the love of God.  AB06389

O Thou Whom I commune with in the depths of night, Who art the Comforter of those who commune, to Whom I pray in the solitude of deserts, Who art the Companion in the loneliness of those who hope...  AB02312

O Lord! He is among the Hands of Thy Cause. Strengthen him with the hosts of Thy Kingdom, and aid him to assist Thy Cause, spread Thy signs, and gather those who are scattered from beneath Thy shade  AB07462

Praise be to Thee, O Lord of the world, and glory be to Thee, O Desire of the nations, for having remembered me in the prison when I was in the hands of those who disbelieved in the Day of Judgment!   BH03531

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which every idolator hath lamented and every believer in unity hath rejoiced, to grant me that which will enable me to arise to serve Thee and to speak in Thy praise.  BH02549

I beseech Thee, O God of existence, to rain down upon Thy loved ones the showers of Thy mercy and bounty, then ordain for them the good of the hereafter and of this world through Thy will and purpose.   BH03735

Though 'Abdu'l-Baha may be remiss and negligent in correspondence, he never falls short in supplication at the Sacred Threshold and ever beseeches boundless assistance and grace for all the loved ones.  AB11480

"I beseech God, glorified be His majesty, and hope that He will soon ordain reunion and not deprive us of the blessing of meeting, by the truth of His Prophets and Messengers and their Lord and Master."  BH01826

When travelling, if ye should stop and rest in some safe spot, perform ye--men and women alike--a single prostration in place of each unsaid Obligatory Prayer, and while prostrating say Glorified be God  BH00001

I have set out from my home, holding fast unto the cord of Thy love, and I have committed myself wholly to Thy care and Thy protection... Enable me, then, to return to my home by Thy power and Thy might.  BH10688

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs, and glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great, Most Glorious Name to assist me in the service of Thy Cause.   BH10896

O God! Make this servant melodious, attuned with the airs of the Supreme Concourse, and confer upon him a thrilling and resounding voice, like the nightingale of hidden meanings in the Divine Rose Garden.  AB11417

My God, my God! Have mercy upon Thy servants and handmaidens, and withhold them not from the Kawthar of Thy mercy which hath flowed from Thy Most Exalted Pen in the garden of inner meanings by Thy command.  BH09736

O Lord! Assist his auspicious son and those who are related unto him to emulate his most sweet disposition and to tread in the path of Thy loved ones, whose faces are gleaming like unto scintillating stars.  AB03897

This is the Day wherein the Hour proclaimeth and saith: O God of the Kingdom and the Dominion! I beseech Thee by the power through which Thou didst subdue the world, to protect me from the terror of this Day.  BH08477

O God, my God! I implore Thy Most Exalted Horizon, O Thou Who ordainest whatsoever Thou willest and confirmest whomsoever Thou pleasest, to protect this Thy servant beneath the shadow of the wing of Thy mercy  AB09767

O Lord! Send down from the clouds of Thy generosity upon those who have turned to Thee and acted according to that which Thou hast commanded them in Thy Book a token of Thy grace and a mercy from Thy presence.  BH06401

Then I beseech Thee, O my God, to purify the atmosphere of the hearts of Thy servants from the clouds of self and desire, then lift away all that hath come between them and the vision of the lights of eternity.  BH01141

O My handmaiden! Hearken unto the call of thy Lord from the direction of the Throne, then give thanks and prostrate thyself before Me, then remember and be devoutly obedient and be thou among the thankful women.  BH11860

Magnify, O my God, Thy trusted ones and Thy chosen ones whom Thou hast made the Hands of Thy Cause amongst Thy creation, and through whose high endeavors Thou hast opened the doors of the hearts of Thy servants.   BH04498

O my Lord, my Adored One and my Desire! Lowly and suppliant, I implore Thee to shield me from the evil of the ungodly and to withhold me not from the shade of the Sacred Tree, nor from the Voice of Thy Pen of Glory.  BH09725

O Lord, O Thou Who dost bless all those who stand firm in the Covenant...help Thou, both in this world and the world to come, these righteous, these upright and pious ones to draw ever nearer to Thy sacred Threshold  AB10321

My God, my God! Aid us to remember Thee and praise Thee and to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book. Verily Thou art the Munificent, the Generous. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH04620

Rain down, I beseech Thee, from the clouds of Thine overflowing grace, that which shall cleanse the hearts of Thy servants from whatever may prevent their beholding Thy face, or may prevent them from turning unto Thee   BH07116

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Self to aid me to serve Thee amongst Thy servants, and to ordain for me that which shall profit me in every world of Thy worlds. Verily Thou art the Bestower, the Forgiver, the Merciful.   BH10311

We beseech Him to aid them with the means of the heavens and the earth, and to ordain for them from the Pen of Destiny that which befitteth the ocean of His bounty and the heaven of His grace and the sun of His bestowals   BH04437

O God! O my God! These are servants whose hearts have been ignited with the fire of Thy love... Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful, the Ever-Living, the Everlasting, the Capable, the Dominant, the Self-Subsisting.  AB00981

to ordain for Thy loved ones who have turned toward the Dayspring of Thy Revelation and entered the court of Thy Cause every good thing which Thou hast sent down in Thy Book and promised them in Thy Scriptures and Tablets   BH07665

O Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thee, awaiting the wonders of Thy bounty and generosity. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me from the rain of Thy mercy in Thy days and the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and bestowal.  BH06025

My God, my God! I know not what profiteth or harmeth me, nor what guideth me to Thy path. I beseech Thee by Thy Self to ordain for me what shall profit me in Thy worlds. Verily, Thou art the All-Powerful, the Almighty.   BH01449

O Lord! Aid him with the hosts of Thy Kingdom, and send down in his support a sign of Thy celestial might, and ordain for him every good thing in all Thy worlds. Verily, Thou art the All-Powerful, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved.  AB08483

O my Lord! Send down Thy blessings upon the Hands of Thy Cause who have traveled throughout the lands to exalt Thy Word and guide Thy creation. They are honored servants - no fear shall be upon them, neither shall they grieve   BH02790

Thou seest me, O my God, turning unto Thee and speaking Thy praise and glory. I beseech Thee to make me purified from all that Thy good-pleasure abhorreth and to ordain for me what beseemeth the heaven of Thy grace and bounty.   BH06275

O my God! Send Thy blessings upon Thy loved ones who have spoken Thy praise and remembrance, who have arisen to serve Thy Cause and aided Thy religion through what Thou hast bestowed upon them through Thy bounty and generosity   BH02913

Lord! Make the weak among them mighty in Thy service, the lowly honored in Thy Kingdom, the poor wealthy with the treasures of Thy bestowal, the captive a prince through the power of Thy sovereignty, the sick healed of ailments  AB00893

O Lord! Grant unto Thy handmaidens that which befitteth Thy generosity and beseemeth Thy bounty and grace. They have none besides Thee and have taken no lord except Thee. Thou art the Ocean of Generosity and the Heaven of Bounty.  BH06001

This is Thy servant who...claimeth to have turned away from self and passion unto Thy most glorious, most gracious and most enduring realms, and from his own will unto Thy will, and from his good pleasure unto Thy good pleasure.   BH09446

O my God, my Beloved, my Goal and the Ultimate Object of my hope and expectation! I beseech Thee...to ordain for me and for those who have believed that which Thou hast ordained by Thy Most Exalted Pen in Thy Book for Thy chosen ones  BH06255

Then I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and the manifestations of Thy grandeur amidst mankind to ordain for Thy servants that which Thou hast ordained for the people of Baha. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest.  BH06037

"O Baha'o'llah! Confirm Abdul Baha in the Cause of God. Confirm him in the servitude of God in the East, so that he may not spend all of his time in the Orient, that he may return to America and occupy his time in the Western world."   ABU3198

I beseech Thee, O Master of eternity, to bless the throne of the world through the Dawning-Place of Thy justice and the Dayspring of the Sun of Thy grace, that thereby all who dwell in existence, both seen and unseen, may be illumined   BH07670

O Lord! Behold Thy chosen ones with the glances of Thy loving-kindness, then deliver them, O my God, through Thy power and might, and gather them together in Thy dwelling-place that they may behold Thy beauty and hearken unto Thy call.   BH06192

I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, by Thy greatest signs and the manifestations of Thy grandeur in the kingdom of creation, to assist my family in remembering and praising Thee and in remaining steadfast in Thy Cause.  BH03213

Dispel my grief by Thy bounty and Thy generosity, O God, my God, and banish mine anguish through Thy sovereignty and Thy might. Thou seest me, O my God, with my face set towards Thee at a time when sorrows have compassed me on every side.  BH03629

I beseech Thee not to disappoint him of that which Thou hast ordained for them that are nigh unto Thee among Thy servants and for the sincere ones among Thy creation. O my Lord! Open before my face the doors of Thy generosity and bounty.   BH08598

Gladden the bosom wherein the fire of Thy love doth smolder, and set it aglow with the flame of Thy celestial love and spirit. Robe the tabernacles of divine unity with the vesture of holiness, and set upon my head the crown of Thy favor.  AB02866

O Ali! This is a mention from Us to him who has attained unto the days of God and was of those who have turned towards Him, that he may rejoice in the remembrance of his Lord and follow that which hath been commanded in a preserved Tablet.  BH11451

O my Lord! Make Thy loved ones therein the speaking signs of Thy oneness and the manifest, brilliant and lofty banners of Thy singleness, and the towering landmarks of Thy manifest religion, and the evident and radiant emblems of Thy traces  AB03546

Thou beholdest, O my God, Thy servant who dwelleth in this prison-house, wholly detached from any one but Thee, his eyes turned in the direction of the Day-Spring of Thy mercy, his heart longing for the wondrous manifestations of Thy grace.  BH05571

"O Lord! The eyes of Thy loved ones are fixed upon Thy lights and gazing toward Thy Kingdom and awaiting the appearance of Thy confirmation upon this servant and the lights of Thy bestowal which encompass him through Thy grace and generosity."  AB02166

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me and illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge. I beseech Thee... to make me content with what is with Thee, nay rather, grateful for what hath been sent down from Thy decree.   BH01778

Adorn their heads with the crowns of justice and equity, and illumine their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge, O Thou Who art the Lord of the Kingdom of immortality and Who hast manifested Thyself through Thy Most Great Name, the All-Glorious.  BH10526

I beseech Thee by Thy manifest light and by the fire of Thy love which blazeth forth on the Day of Judgment, to ordain for Thy loved ones all the good Thou hast sent down in Thy Book. Then adorn them, O my God, with the ornament of glory and power.  BH10153

O my God! Every leaf of the leaves of the Tree of Thy love desireth that the breezes of Thy mercy might pass over it. Therefore, it behooveth Thy grace and bounty to send upon it that which will attract it through Thy Name and move it through Thy love.  BH10623

Compensate him with an illustrious, noble descendant, for Thou art possessed of renewed bounty. Ordain for him every good thing in Thy holy, exalted, and impregnable Kingdom, for Thou art the Generous, the Kind, the Mighty, the Merciful, the Glorious.   AB03690

O Thou Kind Beloved! Illumine the world of humanity! Enlighten the hearts with the effulgence of Thy Love! Perfume the nostrils with Thy sweet Fragrances. Confer upon us a new Bestowal! Give unto us a strong power! Open the eyes! Make the ears hearing!  ABU2087

And blessings and peace be upon the Hands of Thy Cause, the pathways of Thy guidance, the oceans of Thy knowledge, and the suns of Thy gifts and favors. I beseech Thee to ordain for them that which will gladden their hearts and tranquilize their souls.   BH07215

O Lord, rescue me from my agitation, deliver me from my anguish, save me from my anxiety, aid me in my desperation, and shine upon me with the light of tranquility and assurance in all things, and with rest and security, O Ever-Living, O Self-Subsisting!  AB05499

O my Lord, the Mighty, the Loving! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the lands were shaken and the servants were troubled and through which Thou didst distinguish between all created things, to protect me beneath the shadow of Thy great mercy.  BH11827

I beseech Thee... to open before my face, through the key of Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting, the gates of Thy mercy and Thy blessing and Thy bounty. Then cause to rain down upon me from the clouds of Thy grace the showers of Thy generosity and munificence.   BH10361

O peerless Lord! Keep these needy friends firm in the primordial covenant, intoxicate them with the wine of bounty, move them with the breezes of Thy favors, and distinguish them with the gifts of this holy cycle. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful.  AB11148

O my God, my God! These are the poor at Thy gate - enrich them from the treasury of Thy Kingdom; these are the lowly in Thy court - exalt them through the power of Thy might; these are the small in Thy realm - make them great at the threshold of Thy divinity.  AB02461

O God! Thou art witness over me and over the souls of all creation. Judge between me and them with truth, for Thou art the Truth. Thou art God, the Great, the Manifest, the Almighty, the All-Sufficient, the Compelling, Best of Judges and Swiftest of Reckoners.   BB00303

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy grace and the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of Thy utterance, to ordain for me and for those who are related to this Thy servant that which befitteth the heaven of Thy generosity and bounty.   BH04323

"Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets and Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones to send down upon me from the heaven of Thy bounty a grace from Thee and a mercy from Thy presence. Then open before my face the doors of Thy gifts and favors."   BH08802

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy forgiveness and the heaven of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy grace to aid me in serving Thy Cause and in that which will diffuse the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure and will endure through the endurance of Thy Kingdom.  BH05236

O Lord! Aid those who have entered prison for Thy Name's sake to be steadfast and patient, then ordain for them through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of the world to come and of this world, and that which will draw them nigh unto Thee in every world of Thy worlds.  BH00699

O my God and my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst adorn the Night Journey and didst open the gate of Divine Unity to all servants, that Thou mayest cause to descend from the heaven of Thy grace upon those who love Thee the rain of Thy mercy.   BH10753

O my Lord! Aid me to remember Thee and praise Thee and serve Thy Cause and Thy loved ones. Verily Thou art the One Who dominateth the names and createth all things. There is none other God but Thee, the Mighty, the Triumphant, the Powerful, the Hearer, the Answerer.  BH06652

O Lord! Make Kashan radiant with light and make that region a paradise of delight, that the song of "Glory be to the Holy One, Lord of the angels and the Spirit" may reach the Most Glorious Horizon and bestow joy and fragrance upon the people of the Supreme Concourse.   AB02491

My Lord! Hasten the day of meeting with Thee, and expedite my ascension and arrival at the gate of Thy mercy, and my entrance into the Kingdom of Thy oneness. Grant me to behold Thy beauty and bestow upon me reunion with Thee. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful.   AB03024

I beseech and supplicate the Truth, exalted be His glory, to preserve the honored master and your honor under His protection and shelter, and to bring near the days of reunion. This supplication is easy to fulfill before the Generous Lord and is accompanied by acceptance.   BH01414

O Lord! Lighten this mighty burden and grant me relief by delivering this trust into Your hands, O my Generous Lord. Make me one of Your successful servants and Your slaves who are delivered from the depths of the seas of tribulation and the abysses of the ocean of calamities   AB03281

In the Name of our Lord, the Most Great, the Most Holy, the Most Exalted, the Most Glorious! Praise be unto Him Who hath illumined the world with the lights of His Most Great Name, that He might make known unto the peoples that which draweth them nigh unto Him through His grace.  BH00090

O Heavenly Father, extinguish this fire and transform this war into peace. Disperse these dense clouds and illumine this dark horizon. Transform these thoughts of hatred and enmity into thoughts of love and unity, and remove this bloodthirst and bloodshed from among Thy children.  ABU0417

Glory be unto Thee, O Lord my God! Send Thy blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad in the Most Glorious Beauty as Thou lovest, and in the Most Exalted Majesty as Thou lovest, and in the Most Beauteous Beauty as Thou lovest, and in the Most Great Grandeur as Thou lovest  BB00011

whenever in the beginning of the lunar month I happen to look at the crescent of the moon, I raise my two hands with their palms open toward heaven and repeat nine times "Ya Baha El Abha." During all the days of that month, the heavenly Confirmations are experienced and witnessed.  ABU0271

This servant, with utmost humility and contrition, supplicates at the Threshold of the Lord: O Peerless Beloved! These souls are Thy friends and the servants of Thy Threshold...May they become the hosts of the Kingdom and the life-giving armies of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting.  AB07550

The letter includes several devotional passages expressing praise and gratitude to God, particularly: "My spirit be a sacrifice for the wonders of Thy favors, O Beloved of the worlds and Goal of them that know, and O Thou in Whose mighty grasp lie the kingdoms of the heavens and earth!"  BH04762

I beseech Thee by Thy light wherewith Thou hast illumined the hearts of Thy chosen ones, and by the fire of the Tree of Thy utterance whereby the hearts of Thy loved ones were set ablaze, to open, through the key of Thy Most Great Name, the doors of bounty and generosity upon the world.   BH03129

O my Lord! Single him out with the signs of Thy grace and bestowal, aid him with the manifestations of Thy favors and blessings, assist him with the hosts of Thy Kingdom, support him with Thy holy angels. Make him a brilliant sign in Thy dominion and a banner waving highest among Thy servants.   AB01024

Glory be unto Thee, O Sovereign of Names and Creator of earth and heaven! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy wisdom and the sun of Thy Will to inscribe me among those who have circled round the Throne of Thy grandeur and have attained unto Thy presence in Thy days.  BH08989

O Lord! Thou knowest that we are poor ones who have arisen before the gate of Thy bounty and riches, and helpless ones who have clung to the cords of Thy might and power. O Lord! Have mercy, then, upon our young and old through Thy mercy, and cause us to enter the pavilion of Thy care and favors.   BH07123

O my God, my Lord and my Hope! Aid Thy servants to acknowledge that which hath been uttered by Thy Most Exalted Pen and spoken by the Tongue of Thy grandeur upon the throne of decree. Then enable them, O my God, to stand firm in Thy Cause, to arise before Thy door, and to hold fast unto Thy cord.   BH05942

O Lord of the worlds and Beloved of the nations! I beseech Thee by the Name through Whose manifestation all things were attracted, and the Nightingale sang upon the branches of the Uttermost Tree, to ordain for Thy handmaiden that which shall solace her eyes, gladden her heart and dilate her breast.  BH09740

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy most effulgent Name, to acquaint my people with the things Thou didst destine for them. Do Thou, then, preserve them within the stronghold of Thy guardianship and the tabernacle of Thine unerring protection, lest through them may appear what will divide Thy servants.  BH05408

O God, my God! I implore Thy Most Exalted Horizon, O Thou Who ordainest whatsoever Thou willest and confirmest whomsoever Thou pleasest, to protect this Thy servant beneath the shadow of the wing of Thy mercy, to provide him sustenance from the heavenly tables descending from the heaven of Thy oneness  AB09767

O my God, my God! Adorn us with the ornament of justice and equity, then manifest us in such wise that through us the banner of unity may be raised amidst Thy servants and the standard of trustworthiness among Thy creation. O Lord! Illumine our hearts with the light of religion, truthfulness and fidelity.  BH03637

O my Self-Sufficient Lord, O Confidant of my secrets, O Solace of my heart! Make those ancient friends taste of sweetness, make them cherished servants at the threshold of Thy oneness, and seat them in the highest chambers of heaven. Thou art the Compassionate, Thou art the Bestower, Thou art the Kind One.  AB10660

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Send Thy blessings upon Thy loved ones and chosen ones who have been imprisoned for Thy Name and the manifestation of Thy Cause and the exaltation of Thy Word. Then send down upon them at all times the rain of Thy mercy and the outpourings which none hath known save Thy knowledge.  BH02070

O my God, O my God! These are Thy servants whose eyes are cheered by beholding Thy beauty, whose ears are exhilarated by hearing the call from the Kingdom of Glory, whose souls are gladdened by attaining their hopes and whose spirits are revived from the pure chalice passed around at the assemblage of majesty.   AB00434

O Lord! Have mercy on Thy loved ones and preserve Thy chosen ones in the fortress of Thy protection and the strongholds of Thy preservation and guardianship. Open before their faces the doors of Thy mercy and expand their breasts through the signs of Thy bounty and send down upon them a blessing from Thy presence.  AB02305

I beseech Thee by that Name through Whose manifestation the mightiest idol was struck down and the hearts of the nations were shaken, and whereby the trees of Thy loving-kindness have borne fruit amongst Thy creation, to ordain for this handmaiden of Thine one who shall inherit from her, through Thy bounty and grace.  BH06049

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant, hoping for the wonders of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through whose manifestation the ocean of bounty surged and the fragrance of Thy gracious Name, O Creator of all things, was diffused, to make my deeds adorned with the ornament of Thy good-pleasure.  BH08018

"O Kind Lord! These strangers are wanderers in Thy lane, and these captives are prisoners in the path of love for Thy beauteous countenance. They are Thy helpless ones and the destitute ones in Thy path. Make them the recipients of the glances of Thy merciful eye and bestow upon them the favors of the King of bounty."  AB02339

Make him a sign among Thy signs, make firm his feet upon the path, strengthen his loins in Thy service, reinforce his back in worship of Thee, open unto him the doors of Thy knowledge, bestow upon him Thy bounty in full measure, perfect Thy grace unto him, and preserve him through Thy aid, protection and guardianship.  AB00461

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having aided me to rend asunder the veils and guided me to the Mother Book. I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love, such that the oppression of the oppressor may not frighten me, nor the might of the heedless, nor the croaking of the croaker, nor the doubts of the learned.  BH04123

Grant, O Thou my God, the Compassionate, that that pure and blessed Leaf may be comforted by Thy sweet savours of holiness and sustained by the reviving breeze of Thy loving care and mercy. Comfort, O my God, her sorrowful heart with the remembrance of Thy face... Manifold are her sorrows, and infinitely grievous her distress.  AB01515

O Thou kind God! I am a little babe; exalt me at the threshold of Thy Kingdom. I live on this earth; make me heavenly. I am of this world; make me of the world of the realm of might. I exist in this world of darkness; make me illumined. I am material; make me spiritual and suffer me to become the manifestor of infinite bounties.  AB11117

Glory be unto Thee, O Thou Who art the Goal of the hearts of them that yearn after Thee and the Beloved of them that are nigh unto Thee and of the sincere ones. I beseech Thee by the Crimson Ark and by the pearls of the oceans of Thy knowledge, O Lord of Names, to ordain for Thy Aghsan the best of the hereafter and of this world.  BH07141

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy straight path and Thy mighty announcement. I beseech Thee by the Word through which Thou didst reveal the decree of the Trumpet, causing those in the kingdoms of knowledge and learning to swoon away, to teach me that which will benefit me in every world of Thy worlds.   BH04470

I beseech Thee to assist Thy loved ones to stand firm in Thy Cause and to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book. Illumine, O my God, their faces with the lights of the dawn of Thy manifestation, their hearts with the lights of Thy knowledge and recognition, and their breasts with the lights of Thy dominion and might.   BH03505

I beseech Thee by the effulgent splendour of Thine august countenance to graciously assist this servant that his soul may be filled with gladness through the breezes of Thy Revelation, that his heart may be set ablaze with the fire of Thy love, that his tongue may proclaim Thy Name, and his entire being be dedicated to Thy service.   AB05494

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant who stood firm in Thy service. I beseech Thee to transform my sorrow into joy and my grief into gladness, and my remoteness into nearness. Verily Thou art the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth, and in Thy grasp are the reins of all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH02379

I beseech Thee by the suns of the heavens of Thy gifts and favors, and by the pearls hidden in the sea of Thy knowledge and wisdom, to ordain for me that which will solace mine eyes, gladden my heart and dilate my breast. O Lord! Change my weakness into strength through Thy power, and my agitation into tranquility through Thy assurance   BH08367

O God of earth and Creator of heaven! I beseech Thee by the Name through which the ocean of Thy knowledge surged and the pearls of Thy wisdom appeared, to send down from the clouds of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy Will that which will purify the earth from the defilement of every transgressor who hath disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs.  BH10681

Therefore, O my God, I beseech Thee by Thy manifest signs in the temples of unity and Thy resplendent traces in the manifestations of oneness, to ordain for him every good thing Thou hast ordained in the kingdom of Thy creation for Thy sincere servants, and to send down upon him the outpourings from the cloud of Thy greatest mercy's heaven.   BH09204

I beseech Thee...to give Thy loved ones and their children to drink from the wine of nearness to Thee and the choice wine of reunion with Thee. Then ordain for them that which will cause them to speak Thy praise, to arise in Thy service, and to turn in all conditions toward Thy luminous countenance shining between the heavens and the earths.   BH08857

O my God! This is a city wherein the fire of Thy love hath been ignited and the lights of Thy knowledge have shone forth. Make it illumined in all its parts, perfumed in all its regions, spacious in its courtyards, and great in its felicity through the shining forth of the light of Thy oneness from it to all other directions in those horizons.   AB04390

O Lord! Assist the Afnans of Thy divine Lote-Tree to diffuse Thy fragrances, to spread the sweet scents of Thy breezes, to waft the musk of Thy rapture, to cause the lights of Thy blessings to shine forth, to make the stars of Thy bestowals appear, and to bring about the conformity of the realm below with the images of Thy Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB05908

O Lord, Lord! This is a day which Thou hast distinguished through its felicity, blessing and honor, by the tongue of the Beauty of Thy mercy and the explicit texts of the Manifestation of Thy Self. Thou hast honored it, preferred it, and exalted it, and made it a day of joy and gladness for those who are illumined by the lights of the Manifestation  AB07760

My God, my God! Purify the ears of Thy servants with the water of detachment that they may hearken unto Thy most sweet call. O Lord! I am the poor one who hath aimed at the ultimate goal and the most exalted summit - deprive me not of the wonders of Thy grace and bounty. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Possessor of great favor.  BH11343

"I beseech Thee, O my God, my Beloved, and my Heart's Desire, by the Most Great Ocean which hath surged in Thy name throughout the world, to aid me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with. Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent over what Thou willest, and in Thy grasp are the reins of all things. There is no God but Thee, the Omnipotent, the Mighty."  BH04964

O my Lord, my God, and my Beloved! I beseech Thee by the wafting of the breezes of Thy grace whereby Thou didst quicken all created things and caused them to speak forth Thy praise, and didst bring forth all beings and shed upon them the lights of Thy countenance, that Thou wilt not, in this springtime, deprive me of the garment of Thy grace and favors  BH09652

My God, my God! Thou seest the people of Thy unity amongst the polytheists among Thy creation and the rejecters among Thy servants. I beseech Thee to preserve them through Thy might and power and sovereignty, and to aid them to act according to that which Thou hast commanded them in Thy Book, and to ordain for them the good of this world and the next.   BH02032

O Thou, my God, Who guidest the seeker to the pathway that leadeth aright, Who deliverest the lost and blinded soul out of the wastes of perdition, Who bestowest upon the sincere great bounties and favours, Who guardest the frightened within Thine impregnable refuge, Who answerest, from Thine all-highest horizon, the cry of those who cry out unto Thee.  AB00687

I pray to Thee at the break of day and at nightfall, and mention Thy Name at morn and eventide, and supplicate to Thee at daytime and night season that Thou may draw me out of the depths of my corrupt desires and deliver me from this dark abyss and attract me to Thy most glorious kingdom and detach me, every day and every night, from all else but Thee.  AB03038

We beseech God to assist His people that they may observe the most great and exalted Fast, which is to protect one's eye from beholding whatever is forbidden and to withhold one's self from food, drink and whatever is not of Him. We pray God to confirm His loved ones that they may succeed in accomplishing that which they have been commanded in this Day.  BH11856

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Educator of the seen and unseen, by Thy Name through which the Salsabil of divine knowledge hath flowed amidst all created things and the seal of the choice Wine hath been broken, to aid Thy servants to love Thee and to gain Thy good-pleasure, and to bestow upon them that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.  BH07660

Thou seest, O my Lord, how Thy servants have left their homes in their longing to meet Thee, and how they have been hindered by the ungodly from looking upon Thy face, and from circumambulating the sanctuary of Thy grandeur. Pour out Thy steadfastness and send down Thy calm upon them, O my Lord! Thou art, in truth, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.  BH06833

My Lord, protect Your sincere servants in Sisan from the evil of Your enemies and grant them safety and security through Your grace, Your generosity, Your protection and Your preservation. Verily You are the Strong, the Mighty. O Lord! Protect Your servants who are firm in Your Covenant under the shade of the Tree of Your mercy. Verily You are the Protector.   AB02828

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned with my whole being unto Thee, turning away from all else besides Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through which Thou hast subdued the world and the nations to send down upon me in all conditions that which will draw me nigh unto Thee, O Thou in Whose grasp are the reins of deeds and hopes.  BH11872

My God, my God! Adorn Thy servants with the ornament of justice and fairness, illuminate their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge, and crown their heads with the diadem of steadfastness in Thy Cause. Make known unto them, O my God, the manifestations of Thy grace and the revelations of Thy bounty. Thou art, verily, the Mighty, the Glorious, the All-Knowing.  BH11214

O faithful God of the free-spirited ones! These pure souls, praise be to Thee that they were freed from the world of dust, set their hearts upon the realm of the celestial spheres, and are present and active in service. Bestow upon them heavenly bounty and grant them spiritual radiance. Nurture these pearls through the outpouring of the vernal rain of Thy favors.  AB10902

Verily, We make mention of his mother and beseech God to pour upon her patience from His presence. He is, verily, the Powerful, the Mighty. Remember her on behalf of the Prisoner, then recite to her what We have mentioned to thee, that her eyes may be consoled thereby and her heart be assured, and the hearts of those women who have believed in the All-Informed One.  BH08168

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, my Purpose and my Beloved, for having guided me to Thy straight path and made me aware of Thy mighty announcement. I beseech Thee, O Lord of the world and Educator of the nations, by Thy irrevocable Command which hath encompassed earth and heaven, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which shall profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds.   BH08608

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee and place my trust in Thee and implore Thee before Thy threshold. O my God, my God! Guide us to the straight path. O my God, my God! Direct us to the right way. O my God, my God! Expand our breasts with the light of Thy knowledge and illumine our eyes with the lights of Thy guidance. O my God, my God! Enfold us within the glances of the eye of Thy mercy.  ABU0154

Glorified art Thou, O God of existence and Sovereign of the Kingdom! I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy dominion and Thy realm to aid those who claim relationship with Thee to do that which beseemeth Thee and Thy days, and through which Thy Cause may be exalted amongst Thy servants. O Lord! Illumine their hearts, their eyes and their limbs with the lights of the Sun of Thy Revelation.  BH08213

O Lord! Confirm these who have spent in every good endeavor in the earthly and heavenly kingdoms, for they have expended their wealth in establishing the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in the heart of the land and have given what Thou didst bestow upon them to build Thy frequented House with praiseworthy effort. And they shall have an abundant reward, O Thou Who dost assist every grateful servant!   AB07762

O God! This Paris is a lamp in the utmost transparency but it is in need of the light. It is a body in the greatest of comeliness but it is in need of the Spirit. O God illumine this lamp. And confer life upon this body! It is a pity that Paris be deprived of Thy eternal Bestowals! It is a pity that a great city like unto this be prevented from obtaining the splendors of the Sun of Thy Mercy!  ABU1028

O kind Lord! Make this faithful servant a bright candle and make this speaking servant a witness in gatherings, so that in the assemblies of the friends, through mention of that Kind Beloved, he may bestow spirit and fragrance upon those present. O God! Keep this household protected and preserved under the wing of Thy protection, and in both worlds make this family supported by endless favors.   AB02525

O Lord! Dost Thou see any of Thy loved ones who hath turned toward Thy most exalted horizon and held fast to righteousness in Thy days, O Lord of all beings and King of the throne on high and of the dust beneath? Do Thou ordain for him, through Thy bounty and generosity, that which beseemeth Thy grace and bestowal, then accept from him what he hath wrought in Thy path and for Thy good-pleasure.   BH06913

I beseech Thee, by Thy Most Exalted Word which Thou hast made the sign of Thy oneness, to cause her to grow with a goodly growth, and enable her to be nourished from the breast of Thy lordship, and rear her in the cradle of the mercy of Thy oneness, and nurture her in the fortress of Thy mercy, and name her from Thy Kingdom "Ruhiyyih," that she may be gladdened by the spirit of divine knowledge.  AB09675

I beseech Thee, O Light of hearts and Fire of souls and minds, not to disappoint those who hope in Thee from the heaven of Thy nearness and the clouds of Thy bounty. I am she, O my God, who has turned toward the seat of the throne of Thy mercy and has clung to the cord of Thy favors. I beseech Thee to assist me to act according to Thy good-pleasure and to make this my hope and desire in Thy days.   BH09976

O my Beloved! I glorify Thee above all that contingent things have glorified through their essence, and above all that existing things have sanctified through their reality, and above all that created things have unified through their substance, and above all that names and attributes have magnified through their abstraction, and above all that atoms have exalted through what Thou hast bestowed upon them.  BB00254

Therefore, O my God, do Thou send down upon me, in my beginning and my end, from all Thy glory its most glorious, from all Thy majesty its most majestic, from all Thy beauty its most beautiful, from all Thy greatness its most great, from all Thy light its most luminous, from all Thy mercy its most vast, from all Thy words their most perfect, from all Thy names their most mighty, from all Thy power its most powerful...   BB00680

O my Lord! Thou seest the supplicant turning toward Thy Most Great Gate, and the seeker facing the direction of Thy bounty, O Lord of eternity! Ordain for him what befitteth Thy generosity, O Thou in Whose grasp is the reins of bounty! O my Lord! Deprive me not of the wonders of Thy grace. Ordain for me all the good Thou hast ordained in Thy Book. Verily Thou art the Compassionate, the Giving, the Forgiving, the Merciful   BH07950

I give praise unto Thee, O my God, that Thou hast ordained this day as a festival unto such of Thy servants as enjoy near access to Thee and unto Thy loved ones who are devoted to Thyself. Thou didst choose to designate it by this Name, through whose power Thou hast subdued all created things and caused the sweet savours of this Revelation to be diffused amongst all the dwellers of the earth and the inmates of the heavens.   BH02896

O Lord of all beings! I beseech Thee by the power of Thy Finger whereby Thou didst rend asunder the veils of idle fancies and the shrouds of vain imaginings, and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the mysteries of Thy wisdom, to ordain for me that which shall be as a lamp unto me in every world of Thy worlds. Moreover, decree for me and for Thy loved ones, through Thy bounty and generosity, that which shall profit them.  BH06827

O friend! Give praise to the Beloved of the world Who has enabled you to recognize the Hidden Mystery and the Treasured Secret. If this bounty that was bestowed upon you had been bestowed upon all the peoples of the world, all would have turned to the Friend and gathered beneath the shade of the Tree. That which was not given to them was given to you, for their past deeds have deprived and excluded them from God's infinite bounties.   BH04117

I implore Thee by the stations which were honored by Thy footsteps, and by the houses wherein Thy mention was exalted, and by the hearts which Thou madest treasuries of the pearls of Thy love, and by the tongue which Thou made an interpreter of the mysteries of Thy knowledge, to open before my face the door of Thy mercy and to send down upon my outer and inner being from the clouds of Thy favors the rains of Thy knowledge and wisdom.   BH02454

"I beseech Thee, O my God, by this House that hath suffered such change in its separation from Thee, that bewaileth its remoteness from Thy presence, and lamenteth Thy tribulation, to forgive me, and my parents, and my kindred, and such of my brethren as have believed in Thee. Grant that all my needs be satisfied, through Thy bounty, O Thou Who art the King of Names. Thou art the most Bountiful of the bountiful, the Lord of all worlds."  BH01536

In the Name of God, the Most Exalted, the Most Exalted. Glorified art Thou, O my God! I bear witness before Thee and before all things that there is no God but Thee, alone with no partner... I shall seek Thy forgiveness, O my God, in every condition, and I shall turn unto Thee at every moment, and through Thee shall I be independent, and upon Thee shall I rely, and there is no strength nor power except through Thee alone, there is no God but Thee.  BB00003

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me unto Thy straight path and made known unto me Thy Great Announcement and given me to drink, from the hand of Thy bounty, the choice wine of Thy utterance. I beseech Thee, by the breezes of Thy Revelation and the mysteries of Thy Cause, to open before my face, through the key of Thy Most Great Name, the doors of grace and bounty. Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.   BH09115

Oh my God, my God! Unto Thee be praise and thanksgiving, and unto Thee be gratitude and bounty, for having caused me to hasten unto Thy good-pleasure and to hold fast unto the cord of Thy grace...I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Throne and the revelations of Thy sovereignty and by the Will whereby Thou hast subdued the peoples in the kingdoms of names, to ordain for me that which beseemeth Thy days and befitteth the heaven of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy generosity.  BH06715

O my God! I beseech Thee by the power that hath subdued all things, and by Thy Name through which Thou hast made the names to be submissive, to aid me in serving Thy Cause amongst Thy servants. Then make me to be of those whom Thou hast adorned with the ornament of Thy loving-kindness and preferred above most of Thy creation. O my Lord! Thou seest this poor one standing at the door of Thy sanctuary, seeking from Thee that which will elevate his station among Thy creatures.  BH06818

O God! I am ignorant and a prisoner of mine own imaginings. Grant me a remedy, and deliver this abased one from those corrupt inclinations which, with every breath, suggest a fresh temptation and set a new snare. I implore Thee, O my God, to rescue and release me, and beseech Thee to heal me with the breaths of Thy holiness. Perchance my heart may be freed from the world of water and clay, wing its way to the celestial heights, and find rest through the spirit of detachment.  AB06924

Glorified art Thou, O Thou through Whose revelation's breaths the dwellers of the graves have arisen, and through the outpourings of Whose bounty's vessel there hath grown from the earth of divine knowledge that which appeared before the face of manifestation. I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Manifest yet Hidden, and by Thy Mystery, the Resplendent yet Treasured, to send down upon Thy servants that which will purify them from the doubts of those on earth and draw them nigh unto Thee.  BH03733

O Thou Whose face is the object of my adoration, Whose beauty is my sanctuary, Whose habitation is my goal, Whose praise is my hope, Whose providence is my companion, Whose love is the cause of my being, Whose mention is my solace, Whose nearness is my desire, Whose presence is my dearest wish and highest aspiration, I entreat Thee not to withhold from me the things Thou didst ordain for the chosen ones among Thy servants. Supply me, then, with the good of this world and of the next.  BH10973

O my God! These luminous realities are rising stars in the horizon of guidance - make their faces radiant in Thy Kingdom of Oneness. They are trees in the garden of attraction and steadfastness - through the outpouring of the rain of Thy grace make them fresh, alive, verdant and beautiful at every moment. They are lamps of knowledge - make them shine in the assemblage of the world. They are horsemen in the field of firmness and constancy - assist them with the hosts of the Abha Kingdom.  AB05928

I beseech Thee by Him through Whom the fragrances of revelation were wafted in Yathrib and Batha, and by Thy Prophets and Thy chosen ones, to aid Thy loved ones to hold fast unto Thy mighty cord and to cleave unto Thy luminous hem. Then write down for them the reward of those who have quaffed the choice wine of utterance from the cup of Thy bounty. Then assist them with Thy succor, and send down upon them a blessing and bounty from the clouds of Thy generosity and the heaven of Thy grace.   BH02733

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I testify unto Thee in this hour of this night which Thou hast honored and magnified and exalted and adorned and elevated and sanctified and perfected, inasmuch as Thou didst manifest in such an hour the Point of the Bayan, the Sign of Thy Countenance and the Face of Thine Eternity and the Signs of Thy Unity and the Manifestations of Thy Singleness and the Tokens of Thy Self-Subsistence and the Emblems of Thy Sanctity and the Hidden Mysteries of the Glory of the Sovereignty of Thy Divinity.  BB00005

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having awakened me through the breezes of the dawn of Thy manifestation and raised me up when Thy servants and creatures were thunderstruck. I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause which hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy will, and by the Word whereby Thou hast subdued the hearts of Thy loved ones, to make me in all conditions hold fast unto Thy will, cling to the hem of Thy decree, and be content with that which Thou hast ordained for me through Thy bounty and grace.  BH11871

Glorified art Thou, O God of Names and Creator of earth and heaven! I beseech Thee to ordain for Thy loved ones the good of this world and the world to come. O Lord! This is Thy Day wherein the ocean of Thy grace hath surged, the fragrance of Thy bounty hath wafted, the heaven of Thy generosity hath been raised up, and the sun of Thy giving hath shone forth. I beseech Thee not to drive away those who have turned toward Thy gate, nor to deprive them of the outpourings of Thy days and the rain-showers from the heaven of Thy mercy.   BH00886

O Lord! Difficult knots have appeared in affairs and arduous obstacles have arisen in the path. O God! Untie the knots and show forth Thy might and power. Make the difficult easy and the rough path smooth. O Lord! The knot of affairs is tight and toil and hardship are coupled with a thousand difficulties. Besides Thee there is no helper and other than Thee no supporter. Our hope is in Thee and we place our trust in Thee. Thou art the Guide, Thou art the Untier of knots, and Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Seeing, the All-Hearing.  AB09273

O Thou kind Beloved! In humble supplication and in the language of the Kingdom every limb and member of my body uttereth praise and thanks unto Thee. With every hair of my head I magnify Thy Name, and from every hilltop I raise my voice in proclaiming Thee. May my life be offered up for every veteran servant of Thine, and my being be made a sacrifice to Thy most sweet Call. Since Thou hast withheld from me physical sight in this mortal world, deprive me not of penetrating vision in the celestial realm, O Thou Who art forgiving and loving.  AB04700

O God, my God! Give me to drink from the cup of Thy bestowal and illumine my face with the light of guidance. Make me firm in the path of faithfulness, assist me to be steadfast in Thy mighty Covenant, and suffer me to be numbered with Thy chosen servants. Unlock before my face the doors of abundance, grant me deliverance, and sustain me, through means I cannot reckon, from the treasuries of heaven. Suffer me to turn my face toward the countenance of Thy generosity and to be entirely devoted to Thee, O Thou Who art merciful and compassionate!  AB08487

Though for some time no letter has outwardly been sent, this was not due to any shortcoming, but rather to countless and boundless obstacles, and thus some laxity and delay occurred. However, in all that is necessary and befitting, the utmost vigilance is being exercised - that is, in humble supplication at the threshold of the Self-Sufficing Lord, that He may ever keep those divine friends intoxicated with the chalice of divine grace, and gather them together in utmost joy and fragrance beneath the shade of the Tree of the Covenant of the All-Merciful.  AB06418

O my God, my God! These are souls who have taken shelter beneath the shade of Thy mercy, who have been drawn by the fragrant breaths of Thy holiness, who have been set ablaze by the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy oneness, who have turned their faces toward the Kingdom of Thy singleness, and who have supplicated before the Heaven of Thy unity. O Lord! Deal with them through Thy grace in all things, and unfurl over them the banner of Thy favors and bounties. O my compassionate Lord! Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Kind, the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting.  AB10813

O Lord! We are but feeble birds, yet we abide within the shelter of Thy protection. We are lowly fowls dwelling upon the dust, but we seek Thy mighty abode. Broken-winged are we, yet do we yearn to soar unto Thy sublime summits and Thy retreats of celestial glory. Wherefore, bestow upon us Thy favour and grant us Thy strength, that we may acquire wings of felicity, may take flight in this limitless space, and become intimates of Thy Kingdom of Glory. Grant Thou that, through the union of these two unrestrained birds, a flock of the meadows of truth may emerge and soar within the lands of divine unity.  AB10502

O Lord! Transform this world of darkness into a realm of light, and change these satanic manifestations into righteous and virtuous ones. Raise high the clouds of mercy, cause the rain of bounty to pour forth, waft the life-giving breeze and make the lights of the Sun of Truth to shine forth, so that these withered plants may attain freshness and delicacy, and these leafless and blossomless trees may become green and flourishing. May the blind receive sight, the deaf gain hearing, the ignorant become learned, and may those who know not become acquainted with the mysteries of God.  AB08980

My God, my God! This is a land that was watered by holy, sacred, pure blood. You brought it to life through the spirit of the supreme martyrdom, and the Blessed Tree was watered by it, and it was reddened by the blood of holy souls in the place of sacrifice. O Lord! Make this region the Garden of Paradise and cause springs of pure water to flow from its rocks. Plant therein the trees of unity and cause them to grow beautifully through the outpouring of the cloud of divine confirmation. Make it the dawning-place of lights, the dayspring of divine traces, and the source of mysteries.   AB00962

Praise be unto Thee, O my God and my Desire, for having made me to know Thy Day, and caused me to hear Thy Call, and shown me the traces of Thy Most Exalted Pen, whereby all things were attracted. I beseech Thee, O Light of the hearts of them that seek Thee, by Thy sealed Wine and Thine irrevocable Command, to make me strong through Thy power, that the might of the people may not prevent me from turning to the splendors of Thy countenance and gazing toward Thine horizon. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH06712

"Praise be unto Thee, O God of the world, for having numbered us among them who have attained unto Thy recognition in Thy days and who have voiced Thy praise when most of Thy creatures turned away from Thee. O Lord! We beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name, which hath been sovereign over all names, to make us in all conditions turn toward Thy face, gaze upon the horizon of Thy grace, drink from the Kawthar of Thy knowledge, seek refuge with Thy presence and cling to the cord of Thy bounty. Then ordain for us that which shall profit us and that which Thou hast written for Thy chosen ones."   BH04967

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Beautiful Names and Thy Most Exalted Attributes, and by Thy House which Thou hast made a standard for the world and a point of adoration for all nations, and by the Light that shone forth from the Vale of Mecca, whereby all things proclaimed Thy greatness, Thy power, Thy might and Thy sovereignty, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in this world and the world to come. Verily, Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest, and within Thy grasp are the reins of all created things. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Forgiving, the Most Generous.  BH02971

I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art my Governor and the Possessor of all names, to protect them that have branched out from me (Afnan), whom Thou hast caused to be related to Thyself, and to whom Thou hast, in this Revelation, shown Thy special favor, and whom Thou hast summoned to draw nigh unto Thee and to turn towards the horizon of Thy Revelation. Withhold not from them, O my Lord, the outpourings of Thy mercy or the effulgence of the Day-Star of Thy grace. Enable them to distinguish themselves amongst Thy people, that they may exalt Thy word and promote Thy Cause. Aid them, O my God, to do Thy will and pleasure.  BH02536

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I humble myself before Thee and supplicate to the Kingdom of Thy mercy and the Dominion of Thy oneness, bowing in submission and humility before Thy loved ones, and serving obediently Thy chosen ones. I beseech Thee by Thy penetrating Word that permeates the realities of all things, and by Thy luminous effulgence which hath shone forth, gleamed and illumined the far-reaching horizons, to make Thy loved ones the manifestations of Thy favors, the dawning-places of Thy bounties, the day-springs of Thy knowledge, the mines of Thy love, the orbits of Thy stars, and the sources of Thy signs.  AB02461

Then I ask Thee, O my Beloved, by Thy Most Glorious Beauty, to grant us tongues that are eloquent, fluent and clear; eyes that are penetrating, sharp and keen; faces that are illumined and radiant; lips that are smiling and cheerful; ears that are attentive and perceiving; hearts that are sanctified and serene; souls that are purified and well-pleasing; hands that are upraised and outstretched; and feet that are firm, steadfast and upright; and breaths that are influential and pure, that Thou mayest transform all who are on earth entirely through Thy command and will, and draw them near to the shore of Thy Most Great Sea  BH11724

My God, my God! By Thy might, I love to hold fast to all things by virtue of their connection to Thy Name, the Creator. I beseech Thee by the suns of the heaven of Thy knowledge and wisdom, and by the seat whereon hath been established the throne of Thy grandeur, and by Thy Call which hath been raised amongst Thy servants, and by Thy Will which hath dominated all things, and by Thy mercy which hath preceded earth and heaven, to assist me in that which befitteth Thy Manifestation and Thy days. Then ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy trusted ones and chosen ones who have offered up their spirits in Thy path.  BH03063

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy most excellent names and Thy most exalted attributes, and by Thy Most Great Name through which the birds of the hearts of them that have recognized Thy unity have soared in the atmosphere of Thy nearness and loving-kindness, and the hearts of the sincere have ascended unto the heaven of the glory of Thy eternity, to make this Festival a blessing unto us and unto those who have acknowledged Thy unity and confessed Thy singleness. O Lord! This is a day which Thou hast made a festival among all days for the perpetuation of Thy remembrance amongst all people and their attainment unto the most exalted station.   BH01228

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me when I was heedless, and remembered me when I was silent, and awakened me [when I was] sleeping, and taught me when I was ignorant. I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen, by Thy Name through which Thou didst manifest that which was hidden in Thy knowledge and treasured in the repositories of Thy wisdom, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love in such wise that the cawing of the cawers and the clamor of the transgressors shall not deter me. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Merciful."  BH04785

O God, my God! Thou seest how black darkness is enshrouding all regions, how all countries are burning with the flame of dissension, and the fire of war and carnage is blazing throughout the East and the West. Blood is flowing, corpses bestrew the ground, and severed heads are fallen on the dust of the battlefield. O Lord! Have pity on these ignorant ones and look upon them with the eye of forgiveness and pardon. Extinguish this fire, so that these dense clouds which obscure the horizon may be scattered, the Sun of Reality shine forth with the rays of conciliation, this intense gloom be dispelled and the resplendent light of peace shed its radiance upon all countries.   AB00032

Praise be unto Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, for having aided me to turn unto Thee and recognize Thee when mankind was in grievous opposition and great denial. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses, the treasuries of Thy knowledge, the manifestations of Thy power, the expressions of Thy sovereignty, and by the tribulations that befell Thee and the sorrows that encompassed Thee from those who denied Thy right and disputed Thy signs, to enable me and those with me to hold fast unto Thee and to detach ourselves from those who did what they were forbidden in Thy perspicuous Book. Praise be unto Thee, O God of all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH10069

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having sent down Thy verses and manifested Thy clear tokens, and for having illumined the hearts of them that are nigh unto Thee with the light of Thy knowledge, and of the sincere ones with the radiance of Thy utterance. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy grace and the heaven of Thy generosity, and by that which was treasured in Thy knowledge and hidden in the stronghold of Thy protection, and by the pearls concealed in the treasuries of Thy Most Exalted Pen, and by the lights of Thy countenance, O Lord of all beings and Sovereign of the throne on high and of the dust beneath, to aid the deniers to turn, and the rejecters to acknowledge, and the heedless to return unto the court of Thy mercy and to repent before the gate of Thy pardon and forgiveness.  BH00085

O Lord my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy tribulations and imprisonment and by what hath befallen Thee in the prison-city of Ta, and by the lights of Thy Revelation and the stations that have been honored by Thy footsteps and the cities that have been illumined by the radiance of Thy countenance and the things that have been adorned by Thy glance and the air wherein arose Thy sighs at what hath befallen Thy loved ones, to assist Thy servants to return unto Thee. Every fair-minded one beareth witness to Thy greatness and Thy power and to the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy grace. O Lord! Aid them to achieve that which Thou lovest and art pleased with, and withhold them not from the fountainhead of Thy knowledge and the dawning-place of Thy wisdom and the dayspring of Thy most great signs and the source of Thy most exalted and most glorious Cause.  BH11870

O Lord, O Thou the Compassionate! These souls are a gathering of Thy lovers and friends, devoted to Thy Path, enamored of Thy countenance, and bewildered in search of Thee. They are scattered and distressed, their hearts are wounded, and they are without rest. Show mercy and bestow favor, that they may be regarded by the glances of the eye of Thy bounty beneath the shade of Thy Divine Tree, and find repose under the wing of Thy gifts and the pavilions of Thy mercy. They are thirsting for the sweet waters of Thy favors - lead them to the Most Great Ocean. They are lost in the desert of longing - show them the way to the pavilions of reunion. They are captives in the chains of Thy love - free them from every bond. They are guides to the straight path of Thy good-pleasure - grant them guidance. They thirst for Thy heavenly spring - give them to drink. They are wounded by the arrows of separation from Thee - gladden them with the breezes of the tidings of union.  AB00986

O Thou merciful Lord, my Soul and my Beloved! Separation and despair, grief and suffering have befallen me. I witness the fire of my remoteness, the intensity of my bitter loss and my limitless sorrows. My agonizing lamentations, tear-filled eyes and consumed heart are sufficient testimony unto this. The fire of love blazeth and the candle of passionate devotion is in full splendor. Even as a moth, my wings are consumed and my heart burned within me. Whilst I am weary of separation, I am ashamed of my shortcomings. O God, my God! Cure Thou my afflictions and prescribe a healing salve to my sores. Bewildered I am, aimless and perplexed. Destitute I am, sick and helpless. Thou art the Leader of the right way, Thou art the loving Physician, Thou art the Beloved, and Thou art the Merciful. We are heedless, we are negligent, we are ignorant, we are immature. Thou art the Generous, Thou art the Compassionate, Thou art the Most Great. Forgive Thou our sins and make us intoxicated and joyful with the wine of Thy grace.  AB06421

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink from the cup of Thy love and the Kawthar of meeting Thee, and for having honored me with attaining Thy presence and causing me to hear Thy call. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Book and Thy Most Ancient Light to ordain for each one of Thy handmaidens the reward of meeting Thee and standing before Thy face. O my Lord! Disappoint them not of the ocean of Thy bounty, nor of the Kawthar of reunion with Thee, nor of the fragrances of nearness in Thy days, nor of the sweet-scented breezes of utterance at the dawning of the lights of the sun of Thy countenance. Thou seest, O my God, Thy handmaidens and leaves turning toward the lights of Thy face, dawning from the horizon of the heaven of Thy love, holding fast to the cord of Thy favors and clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy mercy. Ordain for them, O my God, through Thy generosity, that which will cause the fragrance of Thy sanctity and detachment to be diffused through them. Verily, Thou art the One with power over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Generous.  BH11617
And upon them be glory in every watering of that Luminous Garden and Glorious Paradise.  AB12832
 
